United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
37th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 14 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.37
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad and Tobago) took the Chair.
newly  elected  members  of  the  Council  and  wish  them 
success in fulfilling their mandate.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 64
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/67/53 
and Corr.1)
twenty-first  session,  held  from  10 
The  Acting  President:  The  addendum  to  the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  covering  the 
Council’s 
to 
28  September  2012,  is  currently  available,  in  English 
only, on the Council’s website. It will be circulated as 
document A/67/53/Add.1 in all languages as soon as the 
translations are completed.
In connection with this item, I would like to recall 
that the General Assembly, at its 2nd plenary meeting, 
on 21 September, decided to consider agenda item 64 in 
plenary meeting and in the Third Committee, pursuant 
to resolution 65/281 of 17 June 2011.
In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281,  I  now  give 
the  f loor  to  Her  Excellency  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre, 
President of the Human Rights Council.
Ms.  Lasserre  (Uruguay),  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council (spoke in Spanish): It is a great honour 
for me to come before the Assembly today for the second 
time to present the annual report of the Human Rights 
Council (A/67/53). I would also like to congratulate the 
The year 2012 marks the sixth since the establishment 
of the Human Rights Council and the first year since the 
review of its working methods. Since then, the Council 
has dealt with human rights situations in various parts 
of  the  world,  aiming  at  addressing  the  root  causes  of 
human rights violations and raising awareness of them 
in the context of the different crises. This has been done 
through successful building on interregional coalitions 
and thanks to the strong desire of all members to deal 
with  human  rights  challenges,  deteriorating  situations 
and  emergencies  in  a  non-confrontational,  consistent 
and coherent manner.
An  example  of  that  approach  may  be  found  in 
the  consideration  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  which  has  dominated  much  of 
the  Council’s  attention  this  year.  We  have  held  two 
special  sessions  and  one  emergency  debate  and  have 
adopted  resolutions  on  this  in  every  regular  session 
of  2012,  following  interactive  dialogues  with  the 
commission  of  inquiry.  In  its  most  recent  resolution 
on  Syria,  21/26,  adopted  in  September  at  the  twenty-
first  session,  the  Council  decided  to  extend  the 
mandate  of  the  commission  of  inquiry  on  Syria  and 
to  strengthen  its  capacity.  I  have  therefore  appointed 
two additional members to the commission, and I hope 
that  those  additional  appointments  will  be  supported 
by strengthened support from the Office of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  for 
the  commission  of  inquiry,  including  through  the 
deployment of more staff on the ground.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-58933 (E)
*1258933*
A/67/PV.37
The  Council  also  adopted  resolutions  on  Eritrea, 
Belarus,  Myanmar,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Mali, as well 
as on Sri Lanka, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Haiti, Libya, Côte d’Ivoire, Cambodia, the Sudan, South 
Sudan, Guinea, Somalia and Yemen. With the decision 
to  appoint  a  new  Rapporteur  for  Eritrea,  the  Council 
decided to transfer the communications that were being 
considered under the confidential complaint procedure. 
I  wish  to  point  out  that  the  working  methods  of  the 
complaint  procedure  have  recently  been  improved, 
thanks  to  close  cooperation  between  the  working 
groups on communications and on situations.
The  Council  also  discussed  the  long-standing 
human  rights  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories by, for example, establishing an international 
fact-finding  mission  to  investigate  the  impact  of  the 
Israeli settlements on the human rights of the Palestinian 
people. The Council will consider the mission’s report 
at its next session, in March.
I would like to emphasize that the full implementation 
of those and other important resolutions depends greatly 
on the availability of additional resources, which will, I 
hope, be approved by the Assembly.
three 
During 
its  past 
regular  sessions, 
the 
Council held, among other debates, a total of 16 panel 
discussions on subjects such as freedom of expression 
on the Internet; sexual orientation and gender identity; 
reprisals;  people  with  HIV/AIDS  or  living  with  those 
with  HIV/AIDS;  minority  rights;  children’s  rights  and 
the  administration  of  justice;  sport  and  the  Olympic 
ideal;  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 
in  a  multicultural  context,  including  by  combating 
xenophobia,  discrimination  and 
legal 
remedies  and  reparations  for  women  victims  of 
violence;  female  human  rights  defenders;  indigenous 
peoples’  access  to  justice;  and  technical  cooperation 
in  the  context  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR).  All  those  panels,  having  benefited  from  the 
experience and perspective of a wide range of relevant 
actors  —  including  States,  academics,  civil  society, 
United Nations  institutions,  international  and  regional 
organizations  and  communications  media —  favoured 
substantive  and  constructive  discussions  on  subjects 
that  at  times  might  seem  challenging  or  difficult  to 
tackle.
intolerance; 
In  addition, 
first  high-level  panel  on 
mainstreaming  a  human  rights  perspective,  held  in 
February,  in  which  senior  officials  of  United  Nations 
the 
agencies  participated,  focused  on  the  area  of  human 
rights,  development  and  cooperation.  We  hope  that 
holding this panel annually will contribute to improving 
awareness,  coordination,  synergies  and 
technical 
cooperation  among  the  various  relevant  stakeholders, 
so  as  to  address  human  rights  challenges  and  have  a 
positive impact on development efforts.
The  high-level  panel  on  mainstreaming  human 
rights  within  the  United  Nations  system,  to  be  held 
during the Council’s February session, is likely to focus 
on human rights and the post-2015 development agenda, 
with  special  attention  to  education.  The  panel  could 
also be a good opportunity to promote improvements on 
the  basis  of  the  assessment  of  progress,  achievements 
and  challenges  in  mainstreaming  human  rights  in 
the  United  Nations  system  with  regard  to  the  current 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  could  also  provide 
a  timely  input  for  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  established  by  the  Secretary-General,  and  for 
the  relevant  special  General  Assembly  event  planned 
for next year. Issues relating to the right to development 
will therefore continue to have a prominent place in the 
Council’s work.
With  regard  to  special  procedures,  the  Council 
has  established  new  mandates,  including  two  country 
mandates,  namely,  Special  Rapporteurs  on  Belarus 
and  Eritrea,  and  a  thematic  mandate,  namely,  the 
independent  expert  on  human  rights  obligations 
relating  to  the  enjoyment  of  a  safe,  clean,  healthy  and 
sustainable environment. That brings the total number 
of mandates to 48.
truth, 
justice, 
In  2012,  the  Council  heard  for  the  first  time  the 
reports  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  promotion 
reparation  and  guarantees  of 
of 
non-recurrence, 
the 
promotion  of  a  democratic  and  equitable  international 
order, the Working Group on the issue of human rights 
and  transnational  corporations  and  other  business 
enterprises,  and  the  Working  Group  on  the  issue  of 
discrimination against women in law and in practice.
Independent  Expert  on 
the 
The  high  number  of  panels,  together  with  the 
interactive  dialogues  and  general  debates,  provide  a 
forum  for  fruitful  and  focused  discussion  on  various 
human  rights  challenges.  However,  we  should  avoid 
overloading  the  Council’s  programme  of  work.  In 
2012,  the  Council  adopted  a  total  of  99  resolutions, 
decisions  and  presidential  statements.  As  already 
noted, the number of interregional initiatives continues 
to  increase,  affirming  the  Council’s  capacity  to  take 
2 
12-58933
action on important human rights issues. To name a few 
of  the  new  cross-regional  initiatives,  I  could  mention 
the  safety  of  journalists,  business  and  human  rights, 
corruption, and human rights and the environment. An 
ever-growing  number  of  country-specific  issues  are 
also being dealt with in this way.
In  the  past  year,  the  Council  addressed  a  wide 
range of human rights issues relating to the freedom of 
expression and assembly, including by adopting several 
resolutions  in  that  area  on,  inter  alia,  the  safety  of 
journalists,  peaceful  protests  and  human  rights  on  the 
Internet.  The  Council  also  discussed  issues  related  to 
the right to development, extreme poverty, the right to 
food, maternal mortality and the enjoyment of cultural 
rights,  as  well  as  the  rights  of  vulnerable  groups  such 
as the elderly. 
Many  of  the  resolutions  were  adopted  without  a 
vote,  again  demonstrating  the  capacity  of  the  Council 
to  agree  on  issues  related  to  the  protection  of  those 
most  in  need.  Resolution  19/8,  adopted  in  March, 
on  the  freedom  of  religion  and  belief  is  of  particular 
importance,  emphasizing  that  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief  and  freedom  of  expression  are  interdependent, 
interrelated and mutually reinforcing. 
In June, the Council held a constructive discussion 
on  the  line  between  freedom  of  expression  and 
incitement  to  hatred  and  violence.  It  was  a  follow-
up  to  the  historic  Human  Rights  Council  resolution 
16/18,  adopted  by  consensus  in  March  2011,  entitled 
“Combating  intolerance,  negative  stereotyping  and 
stigmatization  of,  and  discrimination,  incitement  to 
violence, and violence against persons based on religion 
or belief ”. In that resolution, the Council called on all 
States and other stakeholders to take concrete measures 
to foster a national culture of religious tolerance, peace 
and respect. 
It should be pointed out that the Office of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  has 
also  been  particularly  active  in  that  issue,  organizing 
a  series  of  expert  regional  workshops  on  incitement 
to  national,  racial  or  religious  hatred,  as  ref lected  in 
international  human  rights  law.  The  conclusions  and 
recommendations  stemming  from  those  workshops 
will  certainly  help  the  Council  make  progress  on  that 
delicate issue.
The  number  of  dignitaries  addressing  the  Council 
during  the  high-level  segment  of  the  February-March 
session every year constantly increases, demonstrating 
A/67/PV.37
the growing interest in the work of the Council as the 
main  human  rights  body  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
is  further  borne  out  by  the  increasing  number  of  civil 
society representatives attending Council proceedings, 
as  well  as  parallel  events  organized  on  its  sidelines. 
There  has  been  an  average  of  almost  200  accredited 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and a hundred 
side events at each session. New features stemming from 
the outcome of the Human Rights Council review have 
been  implemented  to  facilitate  remote  participation, 
through  video  messages,  by  national  human  rights 
institutions  that  comply  with  the  Paris  Principles  and 
of NGOs accredited locally by NGOs with consultative 
status at the Economic and Social Council so that they 
can contribute to our work.
The  active  participation  and  contribution  of  civil 
society  organizations  are  fundamental  to  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  making  it  a  unique  forum 
among other United Nations intergovernmental bodies. 
It  is  essential  to  the  Council’s  credibility  that  human 
rights  defenders  and  other  civil  society  actors  can 
contribute  to  the  Council’s  work  and  its  mechanisms 
in a free, open and safe environment that protects and 
promotes their own human rights.
In that context, we must deeply lament the increase 
in  the  number  of  reported  cases  of  intimidation  or 
threats,  as  well  as  physical  attacks  on  and  arbitrary 
detention,  torture  and  ill-treatment  of  those  who  have 
cooperated  with  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Council and its mechanisms. In line with the outcome 
of  the  Council’s  review,  I  personally  have  condemned 
intimidation  measures  and  reprisals  in  the  context  or 
on  the  margins  of  the  Council  and  Universal  Periodic 
Review    meetings.  I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  reprisals  (A/HRC/21/18) 
and  for  sending  a  clear  message  of  support  in  that 
connection  when  he  personally  addressed  the  Council 
in September, as well as during the panel discussion on 
that topic at that same session. 
I  would  like  to  share  a  few  remarks  on  the 
second  cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review.  As 
the  Assembly  knows,  the  first  cycle  ended  with  the 
review  of  193  Member  States  by  the  Working  Group 
on the UPR, which was a remarkable achievement of a 
truly universal mechanism. The UPR is certainly seen as 
a valuable tool for national dialogue and consideration 
of  necessary  actions.  The  second  cycle,  which  began 
in  May,  is  now  considering  the  implementation  of 
12-58933
3
A/67/PV.37
recommendations  made  in  the  past  four  years  and  the 
pending national challenges.
The second cycle will be crucial to consolidating the 
UPR  as  a  significant  tool  in  addressing  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  throughout  the  world 
in  a  non-confrontational,  objective,  depoliticized  and 
constructive  way.  It  is  essential  to  ensure  that  the 
main  achievements  of  the  first  cycle  are  preserved, 
in  particular  the  100  per  cent  record  in  terms  of  the 
presentation of reports by high-level delegations, which 
is  a  first  in  the  United  Nations  system.  I  would  like 
to  appeal  to  all  Member  States  to  provide  support  for 
that valuable universal mechanism and to ensure that it 
remains comprehensive during the second cycle, in line 
with its legal foundations and its spirit.
In that regard, many of the participants here today 
have  helped  to  ensure  the  presence  of  delegations 
coming  from  countries  far  from  Geneva  and  without 
a  permanent  mission  there.  In  addition,  bilateral  and 
regional  cooperation  has  also  been  extended  for  the 
preparation  of  various  national  reports.  That  has 
been  particularly  difficult  in  some  cases,  and  I  would 
like  to  thank  those  delegations  in  particular  for  their 
endeavour.  The  Council  has  furthered  its  efforts  to 
support  the  participation  of  least  developed  countries 
by establishing a Voluntary Technical Assistance Trust 
Fund  to  Support  the  Participation  of  Least  Developed 
Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing  States  in  the 
work of the Council, which provides, inter alia, training 
and capacity-building. 
Before I conclude, I would like to brief ly mention 
the  significant  challenges  facing  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  terms  of  resources  required  to  continue  its 
activities. 
including 
the  need 
First,  allow  me  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  a 
task  force  has  been  set  up  to  follow  up  on  certain 
issues  stemming  from  the  outcome  of  the  Council’s 
review  process, 
to  enhance 
secretariat  services  to  the  Council,  accessibility  to 
the  Council’s  work  for  persons  with  disabilities,  and 
the  use  of  information  technology.  While  most  of 
the  recommendations  of  the  task  force  do  not  require 
additional resources for their implementation, I would 
like  to  emphasize  in  particular  the  need  to  strengthen 
conference  services  at  the  United  Nations  Office  at 
Geneva.  That  could  be  done  within  existing  resources 
by  transferring  existing  vacant  translator  and  editor 
posts from New York to Geneva. That is, indeed, most 
important  in  order  to  provide  adequate  conference 
services for the Universal Periodic Review, which has 
been underfunded since its work began, in 2008. 
As  I  stated  last  year  (see  A/66/PV.49),  reports 
are  increasingly  not  being  distributed  in  all  official 
languages before their consideration. That is a serious 
impediment for meetings of bodies such as the Working 
Group  on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review,  which  relies 
on  the  ability  of  the  States  to  consult  and  review  in 
advance the documentation for each State under review. 
Other  recommendations  by  the  task  force  will 
require  additional  resources  for  their  implementation. 
They deal with, inter alia, the need to ensure sustainable 
webcast coverage of Council meetings by strengthening 
the capacity of the Department of Public Information in 
Geneva, as well as by securing regular budget resources 
for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  for  that  purpose.  Indeed,  so  far  the 
Office has relied on voluntary contributions to provide 
that essential service for the Council. Bearing in mind 
that  the  Council  has  no  more  resources  for  summary 
records, it would be crucial to at least be able to secure 
regular budget resources for the webcast, as it remains 
the only official archive of the meetings of the Council 
and the Universal Periodic Review. 
Another  area  where  resources  are  also  needed  is 
accessibility of parliamentary or official documents, as 
well as other fundamental documents, for persons with 
disabilities. 
Allow  me  now  refer  to  other  budgetary  issues 
concerning  the  Council.  This  past  year  29  resolutions 
and  decisions  or  presidential  declarations  have  been 
adopted.  The  ever-increasing  number  of  special 
procedures  and  new  mandates  to  be  supported  and/
or  implemented  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  carries  significant 
resource 
implications.  The  new  resource  requirements  of 
Human Rights Council mandates in 2012 — according 
to  the  preliminary  estimate  of  the  Office  of  the 
High  Commissioner,  which 
includes  conference 
services — total over $12 million. 
In  response  to  urgent  mandates  created  by  the 
Council,  the  Secretary-General  last  year  submitted 
proposals  to  the  Assembly  on  financing  unforeseen 
and extraordinary expenses arising from the Council’s 
resolutions  and  decisions.  However,  the  Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
recommended that the existing procedures for meeting 
4 
12-58933
A/67/PV.37
those  unforeseen  and  extraordinary  expenses  not 
related  to  peace  and  security  be  utilized.  That  means 
that  the  Secretary-General,  and  therefore  the  Council, 
must  explain  why  additional  requirements  cannot  be 
immediately  absorbed  within  the  approved  existing 
resources.  We  hope,  however,  that  despite  that,  the 
Council  will  still  be  able  to  fulfil  one  of  its  principal 
mandates,  which  is  to  respond  in  a  timely  manner  to 
emerging human rights crises in the world. 
Although I am fully aware of the current financial 
situation  due  to  the  crisis,  I  would  like  to  rely  on 
the  cooperation  and  support  of  all  Member  States  in 
ensuring  that  those  issues  are  addressed,  through 
the  Fifth  Committee,  by  positively  considering  the 
best  options  on  how  to  tackle  the  funding  of  the  new 
mandates that arise from the Council’s resolutions and 
decisions, at the same time not forgetting the needs of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights, particularly if we want it to deliver 
more technical cooperation in the face of the increasing 
requests from the field. 
I have held the presidency since June 2011, and my 
term will end in December this year. I therefore wish to 
convey my commitment to a successful transition of the 
Council  presidency.  Similarly,  I  hope  that  the  General 
Assembly will continue to provide its full and efficient 
support to the Human Rights Council during its seventh 
cycle, in 2013. 
This morning, on behalf of my successor, I invited 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  attend  the 
opening  of  the  twenty-second  session  of  the  Council, 
on  25  February  2013,  and  to  commemorate  on  that 
occasion  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Vrailas  (European  Union):  I  have  the  honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union. The acceding 
country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration.
The European Union (EU) would like to thank the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Laura Dupuy Lasserre, for presenting the Human Rights 
Council’s seventh annual report (A/67/53) to the General 
Assembly. We also appreciated the opportunity to hold 
an interactive dialogue with the Council President.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  European  Union  has  been  a  strong 
supporter  of  this  main  United  Nations  human  rights 
body.  The  Council  has  strengthened  the  ability  of  the 
United  Nations  to  ensure  that  all  persons  are  able  to 
enjoy all human rights. We attach great importance to 
its  credibility  and  effectiveness  and  will  continue  to 
make  every  effort  to  ensure  that  it  is  able  to  address 
situations of violations of human rights, including gross 
and  systematic  violations,  and  to  respond  promptly  to 
human rights emergencies, but also to improve human 
rights standards worldwide through systematic work on 
various thematic issues.
In view of this, the European Union is very pleased 
to  note  that  the  Council  has  maintained  its  leadership 
in addressing human rights situations. In particular, the 
Council’s  prompt  response  to  the  crisis  in  the  Syrian 
Arab Republic is highly important, including its holding 
several special sessions and an urgent debate, as well as 
extending  the  mandate  of  the  commission  of  inquiry 
and  establishing  a  mandate  for  a  special  rapporteur, 
once  the  commission’s  mandate  has  been  completed. 
The Council has also demonstrated its commitment to 
providing  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building 
to  the  Governments  of  Libya,  Yemen,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Guinea,  Afghanistan, 
Cambodia  and  South  Sudan  to  promote  human  rights. 
The  European  Union  hopes  that  the  Council  will 
continue to follow situations where technical assistance 
and  capacity-building  can  make  a  difference  and  take 
action where necessary.
Serving  as  a  member  of  the  Council  entails 
important responsibilities. Assembly resolution 60/251 
provided  that  members  elected  to  the  Council  shall 
uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights. We encourage all to pay full 
attention to the human rights record and human rights 
commitments  of  States  at  the  time  of  the  election  of 
members of the Human Rights Council and throughout 
their membership.
The  European  Union  also  attaches  the  greatest 
importance  to  the  special  procedures,  one  of  the  most 
vital  functions  of  the  Council.  In  order  to  allow  the 
special  procedures  to  perform  their  role,  it  is  crucial 
12-58933
5
A/67/PV.37
that  mandate  holders  are  able  to  independently  assess 
and  draw  the  Council’s  attention  to  human  rights 
issues  and  situations.  The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  new  mandates  established  on  Belarus  and  Eritrea, 
given  the  deteriorating  situation  in  those  countries. 
We  welcome  the  extension  of  the  mandates  of  the 
Special  Rapporteurs  on  the  situation  of  human  rights 
in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Burma/
Myanmar  and  Iran,  and  the  renewal  of  the  mandates 
of  the  Independent  Experts  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights in Côte d’Ivoire, the Sudan, Somalia and Haiti.
Thematic  special  procedures  play  an  equally 
outstanding  role,  through  their  research,  country-
specific  visits  and  valuable  contribution  to  the  better 
understanding  of 
the  content  of  specific  human 
rights  and  their  contribution  to  the  enhancement  and 
realization  of  human  rights  standards.  Among  the 
many 
the  European 
Union  would  like  to  highlight  the  new  mandate  of  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  promotion  of  truth,  justice, 
reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence.
thematic  special  procedures, 
The  ability  of  mandate  holders  to  undertake 
country  visits  and  establish  direct  contact  with  the 
relevant  governmental  structures  and  other  national 
and  regional  stakeholders,  especially  civil  society,  is 
of  crucial  importance.  We  regret  the  refusal  of  some 
Governments  to  cooperate  with  mandate  holders. 
All  European  Union  member  States  have  extended 
a  standing  invitation  to  the  special  procedures,  and 
the  EU  calls  upon  all  United  Nations  Members  to  do 
likewise and to actively cooperate with them.
Over  the  years,  the  Council  has  also  contributed 
to  the  further  development  and  understanding  of 
international norms and standards in the field of human 
rights.  The  Council  is  also  mandated  to  monitor  the 
implementation  of  international  human  rights  law 
and  standards.  Only  through  objective  monitoring 
and  reporting  can  it  identify  the  needs  of  victims  and 
possible  areas  for  capacity-building  and  technical 
assistance  to  States.  We  are  happy  that  activities  to 
strengthen 
international  cooperation  and  develop 
capacity-building  and  technical  measures  remained 
strong areas for involvement in the Council.
The  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  is  a  truly 
universal mechanism dealing with all human rights and 
applicable to all Member States without discrimination. 
Participation by all States in the first cycle is to the great 
credit of the process. We encourage all States to ensure 
that  universal  participation  is  maintained  through  the 
second  cycle  as  well.  Ultimately,  the  outcome  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  process  depends  not  only 
on the quality of the recommendations, but also on the 
commitment to implement them. The European Union 
is  committed  to  continuing  to  support  countries  in 
implementing their UPR recommendations.
The  Human  Rights  Council  also  has  an  important 
role to play as a forum for dialogue and exchange of best 
practices and experiences on a wide range of thematic 
human  rights  issues  and  thus  for  the  advancement  of 
the human rights agenda. The European Union wishes 
in  particular  to  highlight  and  welcome  the  following 
important developments.
First,  enjoyment  of  human  rights  by  women 
constituted a major theme at the Human Rights Council 
during  the  period  under  review.  The  Council  strongly 
condemned all acts of violence against women and girls, 
and it should continue working on recommendations on 
how  to  create  and  strengthen  linkages  and  synergies 
among the Council mechanisms and with other relevant 
intergovernmental  processes.  On  the  elimination  of 
discrimination  against  women,  the  Council  called 
on  States  to  ensure  full  representation  and  full  and 
equal  participation  in  political,  social  and  economic 
decision-making.
Secondly,  the  Council  adopted  guiding  principles 
on  extreme  poverty  and  human  rights  as  a  useful  tool 
for  States  in  formulating  and  implementing  poverty 
reduction and eradication policies. Thirdly, the Council 
continued its important work on the rights of the child, 
with  a  full-day  annual  panel  discussion  dedicated  to 
the  issue  of  administration  of  justice  and  an  omnibus 
resolution  on  the  rights  of  the  child,  presented  jointly 
by  the  European  Union  and  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean Group. Fourthly, the Council addressed the 
human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, which 
is  derived  from  the  right  to  an  adequate  standard  of 
living and inextricably related to the right to the highest 
attainable  standards  of  physical  and  mental  health,  by 
adopting a resolution on the issue of financing.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  also 
addressed human rights on the Internet and reaffirmed 
that  the  same  rights  that  people  have  off line  must 
also  be  protected  online, 
in  particular  freedom 
of  expression.  We  believe  that  this  issue  deserves 
continued monitoring.
6 
12-58933
reiterates 
its 
The  European  Union 
strong 
condemnation  of  acts  of  reprisal  and  intimidation  of 
civil  society  representatives  attending  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  cooperating  with  human  rights 
mechanisms  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  Civil  society 
organizations  and  national  human  rights  institutions 
bring extremely valuable contributions to the Council’s 
work. Their ability to interact with the Council must be 
preserved.
In conclusion, let me reiterate the European Union’s 
strong  commitment  to  contributing  to  the  work  of  the 
Human Rights Council and to further strengthening its 
role  to  contribute  to  the  development  of  international 
human rights law, to systematically uphold and ensure 
the implementation of existing international norms and 
standards, and to promote the observance by all States 
of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr.  Sparber 
(Liechtenstein):  We  welcome 
President  Dupuy  Lasserre  back  to  New  York  and 
thank her for her comprehensive report to the General 
Assembly  on  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/67/53). 
In the past year, the Council has further consolidated 
its  work  and  has  again  shown  its  readiness  to  address 
urgent and grave human rights violations. The Council 
has  proved,  better  than  other  United  Nations  bodies, 
that it is a voice of accountability for the most serious 
human  rights  violations,  in  full  accordance  with  its 
mandate. 
We  welcome  the  continuous  engagement  of  the 
Council  with  regard  to  the  situation  in  Syria  and 
commend  the  commission  of  inquiry  for  its  work,  in 
particular  in  collecting  evidence  that  can  be  used  in 
judicial proceedings to hold to account those responsible 
for the gravest human rights violations and violations of 
international humanitarian law. 
Furthermore,  we  welcome 
the  Council’s  call 
on  the  Sri  Lankan  Government  to  fulfil  its  relevant 
legal  obligations  and  commitment  to  initiate  credible 
and  independent  actions  to  ensure  justice,  equity, 
accountability  and  reconciliation  for  all  Sri  Lankans 
for  the  serious  human  rights  violations  and  violations 
of international humanitarian law in the final phase of 
the civil war. 
A/67/PV.37
Eritrea. Unfortunately, the Council did not take urgent 
action to the extent desirable with regard to the human 
rights situation in Bahrain.
We  welcome  the  work  undertaken  by  the  Human 
Rights  Council  on  the  safety  of  journalists  and  on  the 
promotion and protection of human rights in transitional 
justice.  The  Council  thereby  shows  its  ability  to 
address  current  and  emerging  areas  of  concern  to  the 
international community with a view to strengthening 
safeguards  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights, particularly in situations of fundamental societal 
and  political  change.  We  believe  that  in  executing  its 
mandate  the  Council  should  continue  to  be  guided  by 
the principles enshrined in the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action.  The  Vienna  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  unconditionally  reaffirms  the 
universal  nature  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  and  commits  States  to  universal  respect  for, 
and observance and protection of, all human rights and 
fundamental freedoms for all. 
Against  that  background,  we  have  followed  with 
some  concern  the  discussion  within  the  Council  on 
traditional values of humankind. While we understand 
that  there  might  be  added  value  for  States  to  consider 
particular  circumstances  when  complying  with 
international  human  rights  obligations,  we  are  also 
convinced  that  such  circumstances  cannot  be  invoked 
to alter the fundamental entitlement of any human being 
to the full protection of her or his human rights — an 
entitlement that directly derives from her or his inherent 
dignity  as  a  human  being.  We  hope  that  the  Council 
will  heed  those  concerns  in  its  future  discussions  on 
the issue.
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  established  itself 
as  the  central  standing  body  of  the  United  Nations 
to  address  all  dimensions  of  human  rights  questions, 
including  setting  standards, 
implementation  and 
emergency  response.  This  year  marks  a  particular 
moment in the Council’s existence as one of its central 
instruments to promote and protect human rights — the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  —  has  entered  its 
second  cycle.  It  is  also  a  time  of  particular  challenges 
for  the  UPR.  During  its  second  cycle,  the  UPR  must 
prove  its  validity  in  terms  of  concrete  results  and 
improvements  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights around the globe. 
We  also  welcome  the  consensus  decisions  of  the 
Council  on  the  human  rights  situations  in  Mali  and 
Progress in the implementation of recommendations 
is essential to secure the legitimacy of the UPR among 
12-58933
7
A/67/PV.37
States and civil society. States should make a particular 
effort to show that a review by their peers can directly 
benefit  citizens  of  all  parts  of  the  world  without 
distinction. The legitimacy of the UPR is grounded not 
least in the fact that every single State has been reviewed 
under  the  process  during  the  first  cycle.  Preserving 
the  UPR’s  universality  must  therefore  be  the  highest 
priority for States, in particular of the members of the 
Council,  as  well  as  of  the  Presidents  of  the  Council 
and  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Secretary-General. 
States have a collective responsibility in ensuring that 
the  UPR  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  United  Nations 
human rights architecture. 
Refusal  to  cooperate  under  the  UPR  is  a  direct 
challenge  to  the  universal  and  equal  applicability  of 
agreements in the field of human rights. Refusal risks 
taking  us  back  to  an  understanding  that  had  been 
overcome,  one  that  plagued  the  Council’s  precursor 
body,  where  political  interests  and  selectivity  often 
prevailed. We therefore hope that all States will continue 
to  honour  the  principle  of  inclusive  and  transparent 
multilateralism  by  again  submitting  themselves  under 
the UPR.
The  review  if  the  status  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  was  accomplished  just  over  a  year  ago  by  the 
General Assembly. Not all expectations have been met, 
but a number of positive achievements can be cited. The 
existing channels for funding the Council’s urgent and 
extraordinary  decisions  seem  to  be  open,  in  principle, 
to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  if  not  at  all  times.  The  consensus 
to preserve the current institutional relationship among 
the  High  Commissioner,  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Council  has  allowed  for  a  pragmatic  approach  to 
improve  information-sharing  and  cooperation  within 
the agreed set-up. 
Finally,  the  realignment  of  the  Council’s  cycle 
seems  to  have  benefited  both  the  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly,  while  a  number  of  practical 
implications  might  still  need  to  be  addressed.  At  the 
very least, the realignment has allowed us to welcome 
the current President of the Council twice in New York. 
We look forward to a fruitful exchange with her in the 
Third Committee this afternoon.
Mr.  Alhajeri  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General Assembly is discussing today one of the most 
important items on its agenda. I would like to thank the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  its  report  (A/67/53),  which 
summarizes the important role that the Council plays in 
strengthening and defending human rights.
My  country’s  delegation  expresses  its  sincere 
thanks to the States members of the General Assembly 
for  the  trust  they  placed  in  the  State  of  Kuwait  by 
electing it to the Human Rights Council for the period 
from  2011  to  2013.  We  emphasize  the  commitment  of 
the  State  of  Kuwait,  through  its  membership  in  that 
important  body,  to  exerting  its  most  sincere  effort 
and  to  dedicating  its  full  potential  to  strengthening 
and  defending  human  rights  principles  and  to  support 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  combating 
racism,  extremism  and  discrimination.  We  also  value 
the constructive activities carried out by Member States 
in that field.
The advancement of peoples and nations is measured 
by  their  respect  for  human  rights.  Furthermore,  the 
Charter of the United Nations urges Member States to 
advance the principles of human rights and protect the 
fundamental freedoms of the individual. That requires 
us all to stand side by side in our effort to achieve those 
principles,  since  the  humanitarian  aspect  must  rise 
above all differences and thus no race, religion or sect 
may prevent an individual from obtaining all of his or 
her rights.
The State of Kuwait emphasizes its adherence to the 
principles  of  human  rights.  The  Kuwaiti  Constitution 
of  1962  is  in  harmony  with  the  rules,  organizations 
and  conventions  on  human  rights.  The  Constitution 
has  consolidated  those  rights,  such  as  the  right  to 
life  and  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression.  Article 
7  of  the  Constitution  states  that  justice,  freedom  and 
equality are the pillars of society and that cooperation 
and  compassion  form  the  bonds  linking  all  citizens. 
Article  29  provides  that  all  people  enjoy  equal  human 
dignity, with equal rights and duties before the law and 
without discrimination based on race, origin, language 
or religion.
The  State  of  Kuwait  believes  in  the  role  of  civil 
society  institutions  and  in  freedom  of  the  press  and 
expression. It has legislated a number of relevant laws, 
such  as  laws  no.  3/2006  and  61/2007.  Both  relate  to 
regulating the work of various media outlets, including 
print, television and radio, in such a way as to guarantee 
a  more  open  and  democratic  atmosphere,  whereby  the 
media  can  address  any  political,  social  and  economic 
issues of Kuwaiti public affairs.
8 
12-58933
Article  31  of  the  Kuwaiti  Constitution  refers  to 
the  protection  of  human  beings  from  torture,  abuse 
and  indignities.  Such  an  atmosphere  of  freedom  and 
openness will help to guarantee the creation of a healthy 
environment and thus generate dialogue exchange and 
attract  visions  and  ideas  from  all  walks  of  life.  It  will 
also  ensure  popular  participation  in  expressing  and 
inf luencing  political  decision-making  in  the  State  of 
Kuwait.  That  will  in  turn  guarantee  greater  strength 
and  stability  in  my  country,  leading  to  prosperity, 
advancement and innovation.
Article  35  of  the  Constitution  states  that  freedom 
of  religion  and  belief  is  absolute.  The  State  of  Kuwait 
has  supported  broader  dissemination  of  the  cultures 
of  tolerance  and  understanding  through  dialogue.  In 
that  context,  I  am  pleased  to  refer  to  the  initiative  of 
His Highness the Amir of the State of Kuwait, Sheikh 
Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  to  establish 
the  Universal  Centrist  Approach  Centre,  which  has 
hosted  several  international  conferences  in  support 
of  necessary  proposals  to  counter  extremist  thought. 
Furthermore,  Government  bodies  have  established 
programmes targeting all segments of the society with 
a  view  to  promoting  moderate  and  centrist  thought 
throughout society.
In  affirming 
forms  of  humanitarian  aid 
the  established  principles  of 
Kuwaiti  foreign  policy  that  emphasize  strengthened 
international  peace  and  security,  rejection  of  violence 
and  respect  for  human  rights,  my  country  provides 
numerous 
through 
governmental and non-governmental organizations and 
bodies,  to  all  peoples,  in  its  endeavours  to  strengthen 
human rights and human dignity. It has also increased 
annual  voluntary  contributions  to  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
to  support  its  efforts  and  its  mission,  as  mandated  by 
the Member States.
As we discuss the issue of human rights and the need 
to respect the humanity of the individual, we cannot but 
strongly  condemn  the  oppressive  Israeli  practices  and 
policies that persist in violating the most basic human 
rights of the unarmed Palestinian people in the occupied 
territories.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
take up its responsibility to force Israel, the occupying 
Power, 
international 
legitimacy, to cease its aggressive, tyrannical policies, 
and  to  respect  international  humanitarian  law  and  the 
principles of human rights.
to  abide  by  resolutions  of 
A/67/PV.37
The  State  of  Kuwait  believes  absolutely  in  the 
requirement to honour human rights. For its part, it will 
spare  no  effort  to  defend  those  rights.  It  stresses  that 
point  in  its  participation  in  all  international  forums, 
including  United  Nations  bodies  and  governmental 
and non-governmental organizations relevant to human 
rights.  We  affirm  the  need  for  sincere  cooperation  in 
the  sphere  of  human  rights  in  working  towards  the 
greater  benefit  and  security  of  our  peoples,  to  which 
we all aspire.
Mr. León González (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The 
Human Rights Council grew out of the need to confront 
the  double  standards,  confrontation  and  political 
manipulation  of  its  predecessor,  the  Commission  on 
Human Rights. We must prevent a return in the Council 
to the harmful practices that plunged the Commission 
into  disgrace.  Cuba  has  clearly  stated  that  it  rejects 
the  imposition  of  those  practices.  However,  we  are 
concerned about the current trend to exalt in the Council 
selectivity  and  double  standards  in  its  consideration 
of  human  rights  situations  when  cooperation  and 
respectful dialogue should guide its work.
Given  that  reality,  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR)  is  the  only  existing  universal  mechanism  for 
making  comprehensive  assessments  of  the  human 
rights  situation  in  all  countries.  It  is  the  main  factor 
distinguishing the Council from the Commission. The 
UPR  has  proved  itself  to  be  a  means  for  international 
cooperation on human rights, on the basis of constructive 
dialogue and respect for the principles of universality, 
objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity.
Cuba  participated  energetically  in  the  process  of 
creating  the  Council.  In  addition,  my  country  was  an 
active  and  successful  negotiator  at  every  stage  of  the 
review  process  of  the  Council,  in  an  effort  to  perfect 
and consolidate the work accomplished in its first five 
years. 
However,  as  we  have  said,  double  standards  have 
permeated the Council’s work. On the one hand, many 
countries  have  emphasized  the  promotion  of  themes 
manipulated  according  to  their  own  interests,  such  as 
country-specific  resolutions,  commissions  of  inquiry 
and  fact-finding  missions,  despite  the  significant 
cost  that  some  entail.  On  the  other  hand,  those  same 
countries  block  resolutions  presented  by  developing 
States, claiming budgetary constraints and arguing that 
actions  must  be  carried  out  within  existing  resources. 
That  dichotomy  was  widely  spoken  of  in  the  Human 
12-58933
9
A/67/PV.37
Rights Council during the period covered by the report 
before us (A/67/53).
For  Cuba,  as  long  as  an  unjust  and  exclusionary 
international economic and political order persists, the 
Council  should  continue  to  speak  out  in  favour  of  a 
democratic  and  equitable  international  order.  As  long 
as unilateral coercive measures are imposed and harsh 
blockades continue, such as the one Cuba has suffered 
under for more than 50 years, the Council should reject 
such practices and demand that they cease. 
The  special  procedures  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council should be guided by respect for the principles 
of  objectivity  and  impartiality  and  must  respect  the 
code of conduct that was adopted during the Council’s 
institution-building process. The work of human rights 
treaty bodies should also follow similar guidelines. The 
Council  must  ensure  that  the  recovery  of  the  right  to 
international  solidarity  is  not  postponed,  with  a  view 
to tackling the serious challenges presented by serious 
economic,  financial,  environmental  and  social  crises, 
as  well  as  energy  and  nutrition  crises,  that  plague  the 
planet.
Faced  with  the  tendency  that  the  most  developed 
countries  have  succeeded  in  imposing  on  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  Cuba  reiterates  its  willingness  to 
cooperate  with  that  body  and  with  the  human  rights 
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  its 
universal  and  non-discriminatory  institutions.  We 
affirm  our  openness  to  dialogue  with  all  States, 
sustained through mutual respect, acceptance of equal 
sovereignty  and  recognition  of  the  right  of  all  peoples 
to choose their own political systems and institutions.
Mr. Kodama (Japan): I thank the President of the 
Human Rights Council for her report today and for her 
continued dedication to the Council.
The  Human  Rights  Council  is  responsible  for 
promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of  all 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons. 
We would like to stress that it was established in order 
to  address  violations  of  human  rights  and  to  make 
recommendations  thereon.  Since  its  establishment, 
the  Council  has  steadily  and  steadfastly  established 
its track record in the course of actively responding to 
human rights violations
We particularly appreciate the fact that the Council 
has  acted  to  address  the  serious  violations  of  human 
rights in Syria during its regular sessions and also in four 
special sessions. Such actions include the establishment 
of an independent international commission of inquiry, 
the  commission’s  special 
the 
atrocities  in  El-Houleh  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
capacity of the commission. It was a conscious decision 
on the part of the Council to adopt several resolutions 
on  the  matter  in  order  to  send  strong  messages  to  the 
Syrian Government.
investigation 
into 
Furthermore, in a sign of progress, some country-
specific  resolutions  were  submitted  to  the  Council  by 
various  Member  States  or  regional  groups,  and,  upon 
obtaining cross-regional support, several were adopted 
by  consensus.  The  Government  of  Japan  supports  the 
use of such a mechanism of the Council to address and 
respond to human rights violations.
The  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  is  a  truly 
innovative  mechanism  within  the  Council,  which  can 
effectively  improve  the  human  rights  situations  in 
all  Member  States  through  their  voluntary  follow-up 
actions. The second cycle of reviews started this year. It 
is important that we pay attention to the implementation 
of  the  accepted  recommendations  by  each  Member 
State from the first cycle. The second review of Japan 
was  conducted  on  31  October,  and  the  draft  report 
of  the  Working  Group  was  adopted  on  2  November. 
Japan will seriously examine the recommendations by 
Member  States,  and  our  response  will  be  announced 
in  the  upcoming  Human  Rights  Council  session.  The 
special procedures complement the UPR by addressing 
particularly serious human rights violations around the 
world. In that regard, each Member State should issue a 
standing invitation to the special procedures.
We  highly  appreciate  the  initiative  of  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  strengthen  the 
human rights treaty body system, and we also welcome 
the  publication  of  her  report  on  the  matter.  Japan 
attaches  great  importance  to  improving  the  efficiency 
of the working methods of the treaty bodies so that they 
can make the most of limited resources and effectively 
implement  their  mandates  as  specified  in  the  treaties. 
It  is  also  important  to  ensure  the  independence  of  the 
treaty  bodies  and  their  members.  On  the  basis  of  the 
discussions in Geneva, Japan looks forward to engaging 
in  the  General  Assembly  process  to  craft  reasonable 
and efficient working methods for the treaty bodies.
Let  us  remember  that  the  Council  was  also 
established  to  realize  the  mainstreaming  of  human 
rights — that is, to integrate a human rights perspective 
into  all  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  The  role  of 
10 
12-58933
A/67/PV.37
the  Third  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  a 
universal body that includes all States Members of the 
United Nations, is also important for that purpose. We 
expect  the  Council  and  the  Third  Committee  to  fulfil 
their roles by making use of their respective advantages.
Japan was elected a member of the Human Rights 
Council  for  the  2013-2015  term  at  the  election  held 
in  this  Hall  during  the  Assembly’s  34th  meeting,  on 
12  November.  We  appreciate  the  support  and  trust 
shown by Member States. Let me assure the Assembly 
that Japan is mindful of its great responsibilities. Japan 
will  continue  to  conduct  its  diplomacy  by  promoting 
such  universal  values  as  human  rights  and  democracy 
and will act for the protection and promotion of human 
rights in the international community.
Mr. De Léon Huerta (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
In  2005,  the  international  community  recognized  the 
need  to  raise  the  level  of  treatment  of  human  rights 
in  our  Organization  by  establishing  a  new  body  for 
strengthening  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  around  the 
world.  Since  then,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has 
made  progress  in  fulfilling  its  important  mandate 
and  is  developing  new  tools  to  bring  meaningful 
change to the lives of millions of people. The Council 
plays  a  fundamental  role  in  promoting  human  rights, 
preventing  new  violations  and  developing  guarantees 
for protection and non-recurrence. It has also been able 
to document serious violations of human rights in order 
to combat impunity.
A  very  relevant  feature  of  the  Council  is  the 
growing  number  of  States  that  are  ever  more  open  to 
discussing  the  human  rights  challenges  they  face  at 
national  and  regional  levels.  They  are  also  more  open 
to sharing their progress and successful experiences. In 
that context, numerous developing countries stand out. 
We hope that all States without exception will adopt a 
similar  attitude.  States  must  recognize  that  openness 
and  dialogue  with 
the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
mechanisms  and  cooperation  can  generate  substantial 
improvement  in  the  exercise  of  human  rights  in  our 
countries and regions. 
The  Council  has  also  shown  significant  progress 
in  addressing  the  rights  of  the  elderly  and  persons  of 
African  descent,  universal  recognition  of  the  rights 
of  migrants,  including  the  right  to  work,  promoting 
registration  of  births  and  preventing  discrimination 
against women, to mention just a few issues.
Mexico  is  aware  that  there  is  much  room  for 
improvement  in  the  way  in  which  we  address  certain 
questions, in particular national situations, cooperation 
with special procedures and effective use of the limited 
existing  resources.  The  institutional  agreements  on 
which the Council is based allows for constant evolution 
of its procedures and mechanisms.
We  must  recognize  that,  due  to  inertia,  there 
is  duplication  of  activities  and,  in  general,  we  do 
not  promote  an  adequate  division  of  labour.  The 
Third  Committee  has  an  important  responsibility  for 
preventing  such  duplication,  promoting  appropriate 
complementarity of efforts and seeking value added in 
the  way  we  address  issues.  We  must  ask  ourselves  if 
we are providing due attention to and follow-up on the 
work of the roughly 47 human rights procedures that in 
recent weeks were subject to interactive dialogue with 
the Third Committee.
Given the pressing budgetary needs, it has become 
necessary  to  ref lect  on  the  way  in  which  States  can 
contribute  to  an  increase  in  and  efficient  distribution 
of the resources on which the human rights machinery 
depends, as well as to the most efficient use of available 
resources.  In  that  regard,  we  also  wish  to  support  the 
remarks  to  be  made  later  this  morning  by  the  Turkish 
Ambassador  on  behalf  of  a  large  group  of  countries. 
Mexico will continue to promote a comprehensive and 
joint  ref lection  on  the  topic  with  a  view  to  achieving 
concrete results.
The President took the Chair.
The Council must continue to develop international 
standards  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights,  and  not  fall 
legislative 
inf lation,  the  results  of  which  will  not  necessarily 
guarantee  adequate  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
long  term.  We  must  promote  greater  coherence  in  the 
international normative framework. 
into  unnecessary 
Another  institutional  challenge  for  the  Council  is 
the  need  to  broaden  technical  support  in  its  broadest 
sense.  Above  all,  the  Council  and  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
must provide States with tools to create and consolidate 
efficient regulatory frameworks and implement public 
policies in favour of human rights.
The  second  cycle  of 
the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  presents  a  fine  opportunity  to  promote  plans 
for  cooperation  and  appropriate  follow-up  on  the 
12-58933
11
A/67/PV.37
recommendations  made.  The  General  Assembly  and 
other bodies of the system must grant high priority to the 
recommendations of the Human Rights Council, which 
is the top body the Organization has to promote one of 
the  pillars  of  the  Organization  and  thus  to  encourage 
the  incorporation  of  human  rights  in  all  activities  of 
the  United  Nations.  It  is  our  ongoing  responsibility  to 
strengthen its efficacy. 
Mr.  Al  Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  her  presentation,  which  provided  us  with 
an  overview  of  the  developments  and  activities  of  the 
Council as well as of the challenges it is facing.
The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
was one of the most significant initiatives taken at the 
United Nations, not only because of its contribution to 
improving  the  United  Nations  human  rights  structure, 
but  fundamentally  because  of  its  capacity  and  ability 
to change the politicized environment of confrontation 
that  had  characterized  the  former  Commission  on 
Human  Rights,  which  ultimately  gave  place  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council  as  a  forum  for  dialogue  and 
cooperation.
The  Human  Rights  Council  is  strongly  expected 
to  be  a  forum  for  dialogue,  mutual  understanding  and 
cooperation  in  achieving  the  universal  realization  of 
human  rights,  taking  into  account  the  cultural  and 
national  particularities  of  different  societies.  To  our 
great dismay, new concerted attempts are emerging to 
make  the  Council  a  mere  political  tool  for  the  sake  of 
political  ambitions  of  a  few  countries.  It  is  deplorable 
that  despite  the  existence  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  (UPR)  mechanism  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  certain  countries  still  continue  to  submit 
country-specific  resolutions  in  the  Council  and  in  the 
Third  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  goes 
without  saying  that  such  resolutions  are  politically 
motivated  exercises  aimed  at  satisfying  the  political 
purposes and interests of their sponsors.
The Islamic Republic of Iran, along with the other 
developing  countries,  actively  participated  in  and 
positively  contributed  to  the  reform  processes  of  the 
United  Nations  human  rights  machinery,  including 
those that led to the establishment of the Council, with a 
view to putting an end to a long-standing politicization 
and manipulation of the United Nations mechanism by 
a few countries.
With  the  successful  performance  of  the  first 
cycle  of  the  UPR  mechanism  and  the  launch  of  the 
second cycle, it was agreed that the Universal Periodic 
Review  constitutes  a  breakthrough  in  United  Nations 
intergovernmental  human 
rights  activities.  The 
rationale  behind  creating  such  a  mechanism  was  to 
ensure  universality,  objectivity,  non-selectivity  and 
impartiality in the work of the Human Rights Council. 
The  real  advantage  of  the  mechanism,  in  a  logical 
setting,  is  to  allow  the  human  rights  machinery  to 
act  beyond  the  control  of  the  monopoly  of  a  few  in 
monitoring  the  human  rights  situations  of  all  Member 
States. 
However,  the  world  is  still  witnessing  attempts 
by  a  few  countries  that  wish  to  impose  their  own 
views and interpretations on the application of certain 
internationally  agreed  concepts  and  standards.  The 
Human Rights Council should deal with such attempts 
by designing innovative approaches.
long-term  approach 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  taken  a  genuine 
and 
to  safeguarding  human 
rights  by  ensuring  its  full  compliance  with  the 
relevant  international  commitments,  while  upholding 
the  promotion  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  its 
Constitution. Our policy has continuously emphasized 
the  significance  of  an  interactive  and  cooperative 
approach  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights,  as  stipulated  in  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  as  well  as  avoiding 
confrontation,  double  standards  and  politicization. 
Iran’s firm commitment to the promotion and protection 
of  human  rights  includes,  inter  alia,  undertaking 
measures  that  lead  to  the  further  convergence  of  the 
values  and  principles  held  by  various  countries  with 
different  cultural,  social  and  historical  backgrounds 
with regard to the issue of human rights.
We  welcome  constructive  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  human  rights  machinery.  In  their 
meeting  with  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  during 
his  recent  visit  to  Tehran,  Iranian  officials  expressed 
their  readiness  to  engage  constructively  with  the 
Secretary-General  and 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  Iran  has  invited 
the  High  Commissioner  to  visit  the  country.  Officials 
from the Office of the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights made a preparatory visit in December 2011 so as 
to  facilitate  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner’s 
visit.  Iran  is  ready  to  cooperate  with  United  Nations 
12 
12-58933
special mechanisms that are comprehensive and include 
all Member States and not a particular group of States.
In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  continuing  our 
close  cooperation  with  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
realizing  our  shared  objective  of  attaining  greater 
global  justice,  equity  and  development  through  the 
enhancement of human rights for all.
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  We  would  like  to  make 
this  cross-regional  statement  on  behalf  of  a  group  of 
countries.  The  statement  is  identical  to  that  delivered 
on  behalf  of  35  countries  in  Geneva  during  the  most 
recent  session  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The 
countries  associated  with  the  statement  are  Algeria, 
Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Botswana,  Chile,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  France,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras, 
Indonesia, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Maldives, 
Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, 
Peru,  Romania,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Switzerland, 
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey and Uruguay.
(OHCHR) 
The  Office  of 
for  Human  Rights 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner 
is 
experiencing  new  financial  challenges.  The  High 
Commissioner recently indicated that the Office would 
have to cut its budget by 12 per cent in 2013, given its 
current  financial  situation.  The  financial  shortcoming 
is  partly  a  result  of  the  increasing  requests  and  need 
for  the  support  of  the  Office,  the  increasing  need  for 
Secretariat  support  for  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies 
and  the  unprecedented  number  of  new  and  expanded 
mandates  adopted  by  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
The  financial  challenge  is  complicated  by  OHCHR’s 
reliance on voluntary contributions.
We all have an increasing interest in ensuring that 
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights,  a  leading  institution  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  in  the  United  Nations 
system, can fulfil its mandate faced with the increasing 
demands  on  its  services.  The  main  aim  should  be  to 
establish  a  more  sustainable  system  for  funding  the 
OHCHR over the coming years in a manner that balances 
the  various  interests  of  States  without  infringing  on 
the  independence  of  the  High  Commissioner  and 
her  Office,  which  operates  under  the  administrative 
direction  and  authority  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
the General Assembly.
With that in mind, we believe that United Nations 
Members  should  work  to  establish  a  more  sustainable 
system  for  ensuring  adequate  resources  for  the  Office 
A/67/PV.37
of the High Commissioner by strengthening the funding 
of  the  Office,  including  through  coordinated  efforts 
in  the  Fifth  Committee  and  other  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies,  such  as  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions,  in  order  to 
secure a substantial strengthening of OHCHR’s regular 
budget over the coming years and to ensure the timely 
funding  of  urgent  mandates.  It  could  also  be  achieved 
by supporting the High Commissioner and her Office in 
their  efforts  to  strengthen  efficiency  and  to  prioritize, 
by  ensuring  the  necessary  space  in  that  difficult 
exercise  for  the  High  Commissioner  to  manoeuvre  in, 
and by continuing to provide voluntary contributions in 
order to secure a financial base for OHCHR activities 
with the help of non -earmarked contributions as far as 
possible.  The  current  financial  constraints  should  be 
borne in mind when mandating new activities. 
We also support the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights  and  her  Office  in  their  efforts  to  strengthen 
communication  regarding  resource  requirements  and 
how  they  could  be  met,  including  the  possible  impact 
of different budget scenarios on the work of the Office. 
We support their continued efforts to develop dialogue 
with  States  in  order  to  ensure  transparency  and  easy 
access to information on sources and the allocation of 
funding to the Office, while preserving the independent 
role of the High Commissioner.
We  believe  that  the  High  Commissioner  and  her 
Office should take a realistic and sustainable approach 
to  budgeting  and  should  look  carefully  at  the  work  of 
the  Office  to  strengthen  efficiency  and  to  ensure  that 
OHCHR works in areas where it can add value and has 
a comparative advantage. The Office should continue to 
roll out the new performance monitoring system across 
all  OHCHR  presences  in  the  field  and  the  Geneva 
headquarters.  That  is  important  in  order  to  measure 
impact and to identify clear and concrete data on how 
OHCHR  is  performing  in  different  areas.  In  addition, 
they should expand the donor base and work to achieve 
as wide a geographical spread of donors as possible.
Mr.  Guerber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  welcomes  the  strengthening  of  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  under  the  presidency  of 
Ms. Lasserre. The presence of the Secretary-General at 
the Human Rights Council on 11 September was also a 
notable highlight.
Switzerland 
cross-regional 
approach, which is now becoming more common. That 
approves  of 
the 
12-58933
13
A/67/PV.37
approach  improves  the  effectiveness  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  participative  and  inclusive 
nature  of  the  discussions  in  Geneva.  That  aspect  has 
been  further  strengthened  by  the  establishment  of 
a  fund  to  support  the  participation  of  less  developed 
nations and of island States.
It is encouraging to note that new subjects have been 
introduced  in  the  Council,  notably  gender  orientation 
and  sexual  identity.  However,  the  tendency  that  has 
sometimes  been  noted  to  tone  down  the  language 
related  to  non-discrimination  and  gender  equality  is 
somewhat worrisome.
In the aftermath of the events in the Near East and 
North Africa and the citizen movements throughout the 
world,  Switzerland  is  pleased  to  have  put  the  subject 
of  the  protection  of  human  rights  during  peaceful 
demonstrations on the Council’s agenda. Discussion of 
the  subject  will  resume  at  the  Council’s  next  session 
in  March  2013.  Switzerland  is  also  pleased  about  the 
appointment  of  and  the  first  report  by  the  Special 
Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation 
and  guarantees  of  non-recurrence  (A/HRC/21/46) 
and 
the  environment 
(A/HRC/19/34).
that  on  human  rights  and 
Switzerland is proud of the fact that it was examined 
for the second time in the framework of the Universal 
Periodic  Review  during  the  previous  session  of  the 
Working  Group.  The  interactive  dialogue  between 
Switzerland  and  the  States  was  the  culmination  of 
national  consultations  organized  at  various  phases  of 
the national preparation for the review. More generally, 
cooperation among all States during the first cycle of the 
review represented one of the greatest successes of that 
mechanism.  Switzerland  calls  for  the  continuation  of 
that initiative, because it is important not to undermine 
the  universal  character  of  the  review.  In  our  view,  the 
implementation  of  the  second  cycle  of  the  review  also 
took place under good conditions. We now need to place 
an emphasis on the follow-up of recommendations and 
implementation of the relevant measures.
As  for  the  intergovernmental  discussions  on  the 
strengthening  of  treaty  bodies,  Switzerland  considers 
that the aim of the process is to make the present system 
more efficient, to eliminate duplication of effort and to 
enable  the  treaty  bodies  to  fulfil  their  mandates  more 
effectively,  while  at  the  same  time  guaranteeing  their 
independence.  As  the  co-facilitators  stressed  in  their 
report  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  it  is 
important  to  focus  the  discussion  on  specific  issues, 
while  bearing  in  mind  the  financing  of  the  system  of 
treaty  bodies.  Switzerland  believes  that  long-term 
planning,  working  methods  and  the  lack  of  adequate 
resources should be central elements of any solution.
Finally,  with  regard  to  the  challenges  in  funding 
the  activities  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights, Switzerland endorses the statement made today 
by  the  representative  of  Turkey.  Despite  the  present 
economic  and  financial  climate,  Switzerland  calls  on 
Member States to increase the part of the regular budget 
earmarked for the Office of the High Commissioner and 
to  maintain  the  level  of  their  voluntary  contributions. 
Switzerland  welcomes  the  statement  by  the  High 
Commissioner on the subject at the press conference of 
18 October in Geneva on the occasion of the renewal of 
the mandate.
Mr.  Orjiako  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  Human  Rights  Council, 
the  President  of 
thanks 
Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  and 
her  for  her  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/67/53)  to  the  Third  Committee  and  the  Assembly. 
Nigeria  attaches  great  importance  to  the  respect  for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  We  are 
committed  to  upholding  human  rights,  not  just  within 
our borders but in our region and across the world. We 
are committed to supporting the Human Rights Council 
as the principal body within the United Nations human 
rights  machinery. We  want  to  see  the  Council  achieve 
its  mandate,  as  set  out  in  resolution  60/251.  We  have 
remained  actively  engaged  with  the  Human  Rights 
Council in the past six years, during which we actively 
served as a member.
Nigeria notes with satisfaction the commencement 
of  the  second  cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review, 
with  the  fourteenth  session  of  the  Working  Group 
two weeks ago. Judging by the active and enthusiastic 
participation  of  the  States  so  far  reviewed  under  the 
second cycle, we believe that the cycle is off to a good 
start,  and  it  is  our  hope  that  we  shall  see  universal 
participation in it, just as we saw during the first cycle. 
Nigeria  continues  to  view  the  review  mechanism  as 
a  useful  mechanism  in  the  promotion  and  protection 
of  human  rights,  and  indeed  we  look  forward  to  our 
second national review in 2013 during the seventeenth 
session of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic 
Review.
The  wide  range  of  thematic  issues  addressed  by 
the  special  procedures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
14 
12-58933
indicates that the notion of human rights is taking on a 
broader dimension and is now being mainstreamed into 
deeper aspects of human development. We are pleased 
to  note  that  the  appointment  of  the  mandate  holders 
ref lects  equitable  geographical  representation  and 
regional spread. We commend the mandate holders for 
the efforts that they have been putting into their work, 
and  we  urge  them  to  continue  to  discharge  their  tasks 
impartially and in accordance with their mandate.
People across the world look to the Human Rights 
Council to promote and protect their human rights, and 
one  way  we  can  assure  them  that  the  Council  is  there 
to serve their interests is by maintaining the high level 
of access that non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
have enjoyed in the Council. Nigeria is pleased with the 
participation  of  NGOs  in  the  activities  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  freedom  they  have  to  express 
their views on issues under consideration at the sessions 
of  the  Council.  We  believe  the  Council’s  engagement 
with NGOs provides an avenue for the voice of ordinary 
men and women to be heard and for the cause of victims 
to be pleaded before that world body.
The  considerable  number  of  resolutions  adopted 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council  during  the  current  year 
is  a  ref lection  of  the  wide  array  of  issues  that  the 
Council has had to deal with. However, it is a fact that 
resolutions come with programme budget implications, 
which  create  challenges  of  funding.  Cognizant  of  the 
fact that human rights represent one of the key pillars 
of  the  United  Nations  architecture,  Nigeria  supports 
the  call  for  the  General  Assembly  to  significantly 
strengthen funding for the work of the Council.
Finally,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
collaborate  and  cooperate  with  all  States  in  order  to 
advance the work of the Human Rights Council. As we 
leave the Council at the end of this year, we would like 
to send a clear message that our exit from that unique 
body  shall  not  in  any  way  diminish  our  interest  in  its 
activities or reduce our commitment to its noble ideals.
Mr.  Hassan  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  warmly 
welcomes  the  presence  of  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
in    the  General  Assembly  and  her  presentation  of  the 
report of the Council (A/67/53).
Malaysia, together with the rest of the international 
community,  has  high  expectations  on  the  work  of  the 
Council.  Events  around  the  world,  particularly  in  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  have  highlighted  the 
A/67/PV.37
magnitude of the work that is facing the Council. Now 
that  the  dust  is  beginning  to  settle,  the  citizens  of  the 
affected countries are starting to enjoy greater freedom 
in their lives. However, there is an awareness that there 
is  more  to  be  done.  The  nascent  Governments,  while 
trying not to repeat the missteps of the previous fallen 
leaders,  are  currently  faced  with  the  delicate  task  of 
juggling  the  call  for  progress  and  the  need  to  retain 
support.  Malaysia  believes  that  the  Council  can  play 
a  prominent  role  in  supporting  those  Governments, 
especially  by  guiding  them  towards  a  human  rights 
standard 
international 
community.
is  acceptable 
that 
to 
the 
Allow me to touch on a few matters relating to the 
Council. First, on the subject of the Universal Periodic 
Review,  Malaysia  is  pleased  to  note  the  success  of 
the  first  cycle  of  the  review  process.  The  review  is  a 
primary human rights mechanism, premised upon equal 
treatment  of  all  countries.  Malaysia  wishes  to  report 
that  it  is  in  the  process  of  preparing  its  report  for  the 
second  review  in  June  2013.  Consultations  have  been 
undertaken  with  Government  agencies,  and  further 
discussions with civil society actors will also take place 
before the final report is prepared. 
To  ensure  the  full  participation  of  all  countries  in 
the  review  process,  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  the 
Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance, 
established by the Council in its resolution 6/17, should 
be strengthened and put to work to provide a source of 
financial and technical assistance to help countries. That 
would  especially  benefit  the  least  developed  countries 
and  help  them  to  implement  the  recommendations 
emanating from their reviews.
Secondly, my delegation notes the international role 
played in supporting the process of State-building and 
national reconciliation in various parts of the world. We 
wish to reiterate our view that such processes must be 
driven  at  the  domestic  level.  It  is  important  that  any 
involvement  of  external  parties  must  have  the  consent 
of  the  concerned  States  and  should  be  based  on  the 
principles of cooperation and constructive dialogue.
Thirdly, Malaysia welcomes the Council’s continued 
attention  to  the  human  rights  situation  inf licted 
by  Israel  on  the  Palestinian  people  in  the  occupied 
territories. We must never forget that the core issue for 
the Palestinians is their inalienable right to statehood. 
Malaysia  strongly  supports  the  legitimate  right  of  the 
Palestinian people to an independent State of Palestine, 
12-58933
15
A/67/PV.37
based on the two-State solution, taking into account the 
security concerns of both parties. We urge the Council 
to  continue  to  press  the  issue  and  to  ensure  that  the 
Palestinians  are  afforded  their  basic  rights  as  human 
beings, including their right to an independent State.
Fourthly,  regarding  the  process  of  strengthening 
and  enhancing  the  effective  functioning  of  the  human 
rights treaty body system, Malaysia appreciates the High 
Commissioner’s  initiative  in  conducting  consultations 
with  Member  States  on  the  subject.  Nevertheless, 
we  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  process  should  be  an 
intergovernmental  one,  in  which  involvement  by  the 
States  parties  in  the  various  treaties  in  every  stage  is 
of paramount importance. We therefore look forward to 
the open-ended intergovernmental process that is taking 
place within the framework of the General Assembly to 
address the challenges pertaining to strengthening and 
enhancing the effective functioning of the human rights 
treaty body system.
We  hope  that  the  Council  will  carry  on  its  good 
work  in  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  for 
all,  and  that  it  will  not  yield  to  the  agendas  promoted 
in  certain  quarters.  The  many  achievements  to  date, 
which  include  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
Universal Periodic Review mechanism, put the Council 
in good stead in its promotion and protection of human 
rights for all. However, Malaysia believes that more can 
always be done to ensure the promotion and protection 
for  the  victims  of  human  rights  violations.  Malaysia 
is committed to that end and will continue to strongly 
support the work of the Council.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): I would like at the outset 
to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  statement  by 
Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  before  the  General  Assembly, 
following her valuable statement in the general debate 
on  the  report  of  the  Council  (A/67/53)  in  the  Third 
Committee, in accordance with resolution 65/281.
Since  its  establishment  by  resolution  60/251,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  continuously  improved 
its  performance  by  unifying  work  standards  and  has 
contributed through its machinery to the promotion of 
universal respect for human rights. All Member States 
without  exception  have  the  duty  to  implement  those 
mechanisms, which must be applied in a fair and equal 
manner  on  the  basis  of  objectivity,  impartiality  and 
neutrality,  devoid  of  double  standards,  politicization 
and selectivity.
The 
international  community 
is  continuously 
exerting and consolidating efforts to ensure respect  for 
and protect all human rights, and seeking to restore the 
balance  in  international  interests  between  economic, 
social and cultural rights, on the one hand, and civil and 
political rights on the other. Moreover, it strengthens our 
common efforts to combat all forms of discrimination, 
incitement  to  hatred  and  violence  on  the  basis  of 
race,  sex,  language  or  religion,  including  through  the 
implementation of our commitments, in accordance with 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the 
outcome  document  of  the  Durban  Review  Conference 
and the political declaration that the General Assembly 
adopted  by  consensus  during  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  Durban  Declaration  in  September  2011  (resolution 
66/3).  Despite  those  efforts,  we  are  still  facing 
challenges  owing  to  the  insistence  of  some  countries 
on  invoking  the  freedom  of  expression  and  opinion  to 
justify provocative acts that incite hatred and violence 
on the basis of religion or belief and that have dangerous 
implications for international peace and security.
We have an obligation to strengthen and respect the 
institutional balance between the roles of the principal 
organs of the United Nations in addressing human rights 
issues, with a particular emphasis on economic, social 
and  cultural  dimensions.  In  doing  so,  we  must  reject 
the  attempts  of  some  to  impose  their  values,  concepts 
and perceptions, as well as the standards of their justice 
and  legal  systems,  all  the  while  promulgating  certain 
controversial notions that do not take into account the 
diversity of the social, cultural, religious and legislative 
values of various nations.
It  is  therefore  incumbent  on  us  to  reiterate  our 
commitment  not  to  politicize  the  Council  and  to 
reaffirm  its  central  role  in  ensuring  respect  for  all 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law  for 
all  Member  States  and  peoples,  without  exception  or 
discrimination,  in  particular  in  occupied  territories, 
and most importantly, in Palestine. We have to fulfil our 
responsibility  to  ensure  full  compliance  by  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, with all its international obligations, 
including  its  commitment  to  cooperate  fully  with  the 
Council’s  resolutions  and  with  the  Special  Rapporteur 
and the fact-finding missions mandated by the Human 
Rights Council to investigate gross violations of human 
rights  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories.  In  that 
regard,  Egypt  deplores  Israel’s  decision  to  suspend  its 
relation  with  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  consider 
that  a  dangerous  precedent,  which  will,  unless  firmly 
16 
12-58933
dealt  with,  undermine  the  effective  functioning  of  the 
Council and its mandate.
Strengthening  the  role  of  the  Council  requires 
enhancing  dialogue  and  promoting  constructive 
cooperation  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  special 
procedures system. That is the shared responsibility of 
the  mandate  holders,  the  States  and  all  other  relevant 
parties,  which  must  be  based  on  the  principles  of 
transparency,  impartiality  and  mutual  cooperation, 
while  ensuring  full  respect  by  the  special  procedures 
of the mandates and responsibilities established by the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  that  Member  States  fulfil 
their  obligation  to  cooperate  within  the  respective 
mandates.
stresses 
the 
Finally,  Egypt 
the  principles  of 
importance  of 
strengthening 
transparency  and 
accountability  in  the  work  of  the  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  whether  funded  from  the  regular 
budget  or  from  other  sources.  We  request  that  the 
necessary  financial  resources  to  support  the  activities 
of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  in  implementing  its  mandate  and 
to  enable  it  to  support  and  advise  Member  States,  to 
follow up on the implementation of Council resolutions 
and  to  provide  the  necessary  assistance  to  Member 
States in the field of capacity-building be sourced from 
the  regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations.  Voluntary 
conditional funding should be avoided as far as possible. 
Assured funding will strengthen the role of the Office 
in supporting the work of the Council.
Mr.  Cho  Ki-joung  (Republic  of  Korea)  (spoke  in 
French): At the outset, allow me to commend the Human 
Rights  Council,  under  the  presidency  of  Ms.  Laura 
Dupuy Lasserre, for the quality of its work over the past 
year. 
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  rapidly  met  the 
urgent  need  with  regard  to  human  rights,  particularly 
in Syria. The Council took the necessary decisions not 
only through its regular sessions but also by organizing 
a  special  session.  It  sent  a  clear  message  to  the 
international  community  that  any  violation  of  human 
rights must be stopped immediately and responsibility 
must  be  apportioned.  Such  rapid  response  and 
effectiveness  have  further  enhanced  the  primary  role 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  as  a  guarantor  of  the 
protection and promotion of human rights. 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea, I would like to warmly thank Ms. Laura Dupuy 
A/67/PV.37
Lasserre  for  her  tireless  and  lofty  efforts  as  President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  throughout  her  term  of 
office. Furthermore, the Republic of Korea calls on all 
Governments and entities involved to respect all urgent 
requests  of  the  international  community  through  the 
Human Rights Council.
The Republic of Korea would also like to stress the 
crucial  role  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR) 
procedure.  As  was  the  case  with  the  first  cycle  of  the 
Review, the second cycle has begun very successfully. 
Better still, during the second cycle, which began this 
year, we have seen a number of developments. 
First,  the  number  of  participating  countries  has 
increased considerably compared to the previous cycle. 
Secondly, there have been improvements with regard not 
only to the number of recommendations submitted, but 
also to their quality. Thirdly, the majority of delegations 
of  those  countries  that  have  been  evaluated  have  been 
headed by a leading official of the Ministry of Justice. 
That  has  allowed  the  messages  of  the  international 
community  to  be  transmitted  directly  to  the  minister 
responsible for implementing recommendations. 
However,  to  ensure  the  full  success  of  the  UPR 
process,  it  is  up  to  each  State  assessed  to  implement 
the  recommendations  made.  While  reaffirming  its 
commitment to the UPR process, the Republic of Korea 
calls  on  the  Governments  concerned  to  implement  all 
recommendations  in  order  to  ensure  that  there  is  a 
tangible improvement in human rights on the ground.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  all  Member  States  that  have  provided  their 
valuable  support  to  our  country’s  candidature  for 
election  to  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Through  its 
promises and voluntary commitments, our Government 
has  clearly  demonstrated  its  resolute  will  to  play  a 
constructive role in promoting human rights nationally 
and internationally. All promises and commitments will 
be respected during its term of office. The Republic of 
Korea  will  spare  no  effort  in  undertaking  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  while  maintaining  close 
relations  with  other  members  and  observers  of  the 
Council and with civil society. 
Ms.  Hernando  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  allow 
me to thank the President for this opportunity to speak 
on  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/67/53). 
This  agenda  item  is  of  particular  importance  to  the 
Philippines  as  a  founding  and  current  member  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  My  delegation  also  thanks 
12-58933
17
A/67/PV.37
Laura Dupuy Lasserre, President of the Human Rights 
Council,  for  presenting  the  Council’s  report  to  the 
Assembly.
Last  year  marked  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development,  which 
unequivocally  establishes  development  as  a  right  and 
puts  people  at  the  centre  of  the  development  process. 
Yet  many  children,  women  and  men  continue  to  live 
in  dire  need  of  fulfilment  of  their  entitlement  to  a 
life  of  dignity,  freedom  and  equal  opportunity.  It  is 
unfortunate that more than 60 years after the adoption 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which 
articulates  our  highest  aspirations  for  freedom  from 
fear  and  want  and  our  commitment  to  protecting  the 
sanctity and dignity of every human life, regardless of 
sex, race or creed. Poverty, disease, lack of shelter and 
illiteracy  remain,  affecting  the  realization  of  a  wide 
range  of  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
Philippines  is  committed  to  continuing  to  support 
advancing  discussions  on  the  right  to  development 
with  a  view  to  its  realization.  We  believe  that  the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  aimed 
at  strengthening  the  United  Nations  human  rights 
machinery  to  ensure  effective  enjoyment  by  all  of 
every human right — political, civil, economic, social 
or cultural, including the right to development — is but 
one of the manifestations of our continuing faith in and 
enduring  commitment  to  the  values  and  principles  of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The  reform  process  that  led  to  the  creation  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  stemmed  from  the  need  to 
elevate human rights to the same level as the pillars of 
peace, security and equitable economic development, on 
which  the  United  Nations  was  founded.  Development, 
peace and security and human rights are interlinked and 
mutually reinforcing. It is only through the observance 
of  and  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  that  we  can  truly  attain  peace  and  social 
progress.
Since  its  establishment  in  2006,  we  note  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  made  reasonable  progress 
in fulfilling its mandate, as set out in resolution 60/251. 
The  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  with 
its 
intergovernmental  and  peer-review  nature,  remains 
an  effective  mechanism  of  the  Council  in  ensuring 
that  States  fulfil  their  responsibility  to  respect  and 
implement  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
It  has  spurred  greater  interest  and  attention  to  human 
rights  at  the  national  and  international  levels  and  has 
shown  us  that  all  countries,  regardless  of  their  level 
of  development,  share  human  rights  challenges.  We 
are  optimistic  that  the  UPR  will  continue  to  help  the 
Council ensure respect for the principles of universality, 
objectivity  and 
institutionalize 
cooperative and constructive dialogue on human rights 
in a less politicized and non-selective manner.
fairness  and 
to 
In  May,  the  Philippines  presented  its  report  for 
the  second  cycle  of  the  UPR,  which  was  adopted  by 
the  Council  in  September.  My  delegation  values  the 
UPR  as  a  continuing  process,  not  merely  a  venue  for 
scheduled reporting and review. We are convinced that 
the  UPR  can  bring  about  concrete  positive  changes 
in  the  treatment  of  human  rights  on  the  ground  as  it 
addresses  human  rights  issues  in  a  manner  that  takes 
into consideration the views of many sectors of society.
The  Philippines  believes  that  the  primary  goal  of 
the  Council  is  to  help  and  to  encourage  all  countries 
to  build  an  enabling  environment,  both  on  the  ground 
and  internationally,  and  to  better  promote  the  human 
rights  of  their  peoples  in  constructive  cooperation 
with  the  international  community  and  civil  society. 
We  are  of  the  view  that  a  consensual  and  cooperative 
approach  in  dealing  with  country  situations  can  lead 
to  a  more  practical  and  results-oriented  outcome.  The 
Council should therefore be a partner of all States and 
stakeholders  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human rights, with a strong focus on capacity-building 
and  international  cooperation.  It  must  continue  to 
work in a constructive manner, fostering dialogue and 
cooperation  and  engaging  in  meaningful  interaction 
with  States  and  all  stakeholders  at  the  national  and 
international level.
Mr. Balé (Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  special  procedures  play  an  important  role 
in  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights.  The 
independence of mandate holders is vital to their work 
but, as we have repeatedly stressed in the past, it must 
always  be  balanced  with  important  considerations, 
such  as  professionalism,  integrity,  efficiency  and 
effectiveness.
As a founding and current member of the Council, 
the Philippines endeavours to contribute to the efficient 
and  effective  work  of  the  Council  by  working  with 
all  States  and  stakeholders  in  a  constructive  manner, 
fostering  dialogue  and  cooperation  and  focusing  on 
18 
12-58933
A/67/PV.37
the  importance  of  bridging  national,  regional  and 
international  human  rights  goals,  standards  and 
strategies.  The  Philippines  is  the  main  sponsor  of 
initiatives in the Council on human rights and extreme 
poverty  and  on  combating  trafficking  in  persons, 
especially  women  and  children. 
traditionally 
sponsors  initiatives  on  the  protection  of  the  human 
rights of vulnerable groups, such as migrants, women, 
indigenous  peoples  and  persons  with  disabilities,  and 
is a member of the cross-regional Platform for Human 
Rights Education and Training. 
It 
Sensitive to the current and emerging human rights 
challenges  and  aware  that  the  effective  realization  of 
human rights is vital to alleviating poverty and creating 
a better quality of life for all, my delegation reaffirms 
its  unwavering  commitment  to  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights.
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana):  Botswana  warmly 
welcomes  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
to  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  thanks  her  for  the  comprehensive  report  that  she 
presented to the Assembly (A/67/53).
My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  earlier  in  the  meeting  by  the  representative 
of  Turkey  on  behalf  of  the  cross-regional  group  on 
the  financial  challenges  of  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Botswana  is  fully  committed  to  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  both  at  home  and  abroad. 
We attach great importance to the work of the Council 
as  we  believe  that  it  continues  to  make  a  positive 
impact  on  Member  States  in  fulfilling  their  human 
rights obligations. However, we believe that much more 
remains to be done.
Botswana  commends  the  Council  for  the  work 
that  it  has  achieved  at  the  recently  concluded  session. 
The  decisions  taken  on  various  thematic  and  country 
mandates will go a long way in assisting the countries 
concerned  to  address  the  challenges  that  they  face  in 
the protection and promotion of human rights.
However,  we  are  concerned  about  the  situation  of 
human  rights  violations  in  a  number  of  countries  that 
are on the Council’s agenda, in particular the situation 
in  Syria.  We  further  call  on  the  Security  Council  to 
take the necessary measures to compel the Government 
of  Syria  to  end  the  impunity  and  violation  of  the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the Syrian people. 
The  extension  of  the  mandate  of  the  independent 
international commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab 
Republic is also a commendable decision of the Council. 
We hope that the concerned parties will cooperate with 
the  commission  and  allow  it  to  successfully  carry  out 
its mandate.
We have taken note of the challenges and constraints 
of the Office of the High Commissioner, particularly in 
the  past  year.  In  that  regard,  Botswana  has  continued 
to  engage  actively  in  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  Geneva.  We  have  positively  engaged  with 
various special procedures mandate holders in support 
of  their  work  despite  the  challenges  that  they  face  in 
carrying out their mandates.
We  also  share  the  High  Commissioner’s  concerns 
about resource constraints and the increasing workload 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Our  abiding  faith  in 
and  commitment  to  supporting  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner is demonstrated by our response to calls 
for  human  rights  appeals,  both  political  and  financial, 
and to the work of the special procedures and mandates 
that emanate from the Human Rights Council.
My  delegation  is  also  pleased  by  the  work  carried 
out under the special procedures of the Human Rights 
Council.  We  take  particular  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  use  of  children  in  armed 
conf licts  and  reiterate  our  support  to  guard  against 
impunity  and  the  violation  of  children’s  rights  in  all 
situations, including armed conf lict.
We  also  recognize  the  valuable  role  and  the 
contribution  of  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies  to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  Their  effective  functioning 
remains  critical.  We  are  confident  that  the  ongoing 
intergovernmental  process  on  the  strengthening  of 
the  human  rights  treaty  body  system  will  enhance 
efficiency  in  the  financing  and  working  methods  of 
such bodies and will complement efforts to promote the 
development agenda of the Human Rights Council.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate 
Botswana’s support for the work of the Human Rights 
Council  and  its  mechanisms.  We  hope  to  achieve  our 
aspirations in that regard.
Mr.  Lukiyantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  Ms.  Laura 
Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
12-58933
19
A/67/PV.37
Council,  for  presenting  the  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Council (A/67/53).
Today, it can be confidently said that in the period 
since the Council’s establishment, that body has become 
one  of  the  key  elements  of  the  international  human 
rights  architecture  called  on  to  help  the  development 
of  constructive  inter-State  cooperation  in  that  area. 
The  Council  has  specific  qualities  that  distinguish 
it  positively  from  its  predecessor,  the  Human  Rights 
Commission.
However,  a  worrying  trend  increasingly  seen  in 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  in  particular 
in  recent  years,  is  emerging.  Unfortunately,  its  work 
continues  to  be  characterized  by  the  polarization  of 
various  groups  of  States,  making  it  difficult  to  hold  a 
meaningful and constructive discussion of human rights 
issues.  There  is  concern  about  the  continuing  practice 
of  many  States  and  groups  of  countries  to  use  human 
rights as an instrument of political pressure, imposing 
foreign  value  systems  without  taking  the  national 
historical, economic, and sociopolitical characteristics 
of States into account.
We  continue  to  see  attempts  to  divide  States  into 
two categories — the bad and the good, the students and 
the  examiners  —  undermining  the  intergovernmental 
nature of the Council. Such an approach fundamentally 
contradicts  the  initial  purpose  of  the  Council  as  a 
body created to develop dialogue and cooperation. The 
Council must work in the interests of all Member States 
without  exception  and  not  give  preference  to  any  one 
nation’s individual needs. 
In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  once  again  draw 
attention  to  the  basic  principles  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council:  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity.  We  are  firmly  convinced  that  unless 
those principles are respected, we cannot foster genuine, 
constructive,  mutually 
international 
dialogue and cooperation to promote human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms,  and  the  Council’s  work  as  a 
whole  will  be  doomed  to  fail.  We  must  recognize  the 
fact  that  the  primary  responsibility  for  promoting  and 
protecting  human  rights  lies  with  States  themselves 
and that the basic task of the international community 
resides  in  providing  them  with  technical,  results-
oriented assistance. 
respectful 
One of the most important functions of the Council, 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  resolution  60/251,  is  to 
conduct  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  of  the  human 
rights  situations  in  Member  States.  Russia  supported 
the creation of that procedure in the hope that holding 
such  a  review  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  mutual 
respect would help to reduce confrontation in inter-State 
discussions of human rights. We are convinced that in 
the future the Universal Periodic Review must to a great 
extent replace the discredited practice of lopsided and 
politicized  resolutions  on  the  human  rights  situations 
in  individual  countries.  The  review  procedure  has 
considerable  potential,  but  that  can  be  realized  only 
if  there  is  genuine  universality,  without  exception  or 
exemption from the general rules. 
One  of  the  most  important  instruments  that 
the  Council  can  use  to  implement  its  mandate  is  the 
system  of  special  procedures,  which  is  a  legacy  of 
the  Human  Rights  Commission.  Unfortunately,  along 
with  some  benefits  of  the  special  procedures  system, 
it has shortcomings, which have been justly criticized. 
It  is  important  that  the  future  functioning  of  human 
rights  mechanisms  move  towards  depoliticization. 
That  can  be  guaranteed  by  unswerving  respect  in  the 
special  procedures,  a  principle  adopted  by  Member 
States at the sixty-second session in resolution 62/219, 
setting out the Code of Conduct for Special Procedures 
Mandate-holders of the Human Rights Council.
On the subject of cooperation between the Human 
Rights Council and the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, we believe it to be of fundamental importance 
to  strictly  follow  the  provisions  of  resolutions  48/141 
and  60/251,  which  clearly  define  the  place  and  role  of 
the  High  Commissioner  and  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner  in  the  United  Nations  human  rights 
structure.  We  believe  that  the  work  of  the  Office  of 
the  High  Commissioner  should  focus  on  enhancing 
dialogue and cooperation with States in order to provide 
them with assistance in guaranteeing human rights and 
freedoms. 
In  that  regard,  we  suggest  that  such  important 
mechanisms  as  the  biennial  Strategic  Management 
Plan  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  should 
be  reviewed  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  before 
being presented to the General Assembly. However, we 
should have a genuine dialogue among Member States 
rather  than  a  mere  mechanism  for  collecting  views, 
as  was  done  this  year.  That  would  allow  the  High 
Commissioner  to  get  a  clearer  picture  of  the  current 
needs  of  various  States  in  promoting  and  protecting 
human  rights,  and  the  Office  could  thereby  design  its 
work in a more targeted way.
20 
12-58933
In order to ensure that human rights become a real 
element of everyone’s lives, it is important not only to 
recognize their juridical definition but to make a fresh 
consideration of the moral dimension. That dimension is 
first and foremost ref lected in traditional human values 
that have developed in our societies over millennia and 
are ref lected in religions, cultures and customs. I refer 
to  such  traditional  values  as  dignity,  responsibility, 
freedom,  work,  the  family  and  mutual  respect.  Such 
moral  principles  must  form  the  foundation  of  social 
life and become the cement that binds nations, peoples 
and ethnic groups. We firmly believe that if traditional 
values are respected in the relationship between human 
rights  and  traditional  human  values,  they  will  bolster 
respect for human rights and their universal enjoyment. 
We believe that an excellent starting point on this theme 
was  the  discussion  initiated  by  Russia  in  the  Human 
Rights Council.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): We welcome the President of the Human Rights 
Council, Ambassador Laura Lasserre, and reaffirm our 
determination to continue our constructive cooperation 
with  her,  working  to  guarantee  that  all  human  rights 
are  addressed  in  a  fair,  impartial,  equitable  and 
non-selective  way,  free  of  the  pitfalls  and  ploys  of 
politicization  and  double  standards  that  undermine 
many  of  our  accomplishments  here  in  New  York  and 
in Geneva. 
My country, as is well known, participated actively 
in  creating  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva  and 
in  the  consensual  activities  that  led  to  its  formation. 
Therefore,  everything  pertaining  to  human  rights  lies 
at the heart of Syrian foreign policy.
We have read with deep interest the Council’s report 
(A/67/53),  which  covers  extremely  important  topics, 
especially information about violations of human rights 
in  the  occupied  Arab  territories,  the  Syrian  Golan 
and  the  Palestinian  territories.  The  Syrian  Golan  has 
been  under  an  unjust  Israeli  occupation  for  45  years, 
and despite the Human Rights Council’s demands that 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power  —  to  use  United  Nations 
language — implement the resolutions of all the bodies 
and agencies of the United Nations, including of course 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  Israel  continues  to  f lout 
said  resolutions.  The  Israelis  continue  to  commit  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  and  to  openly 
boast  of  their  crimes,  unhindered  by  any  punishment 
or  accountability,  while  international  public  opinion 
A/67/PV.37
continues  to  ponder  seriously  why  it  is  that  they  are 
exempt from prosecution and accountability.
We can only express our concern about the efforts 
of some parties to turn the Human Rights Council into 
a  private  and  prefabricated  sector  that  works  within 
narrow  political  parameters  that  serve  the  agendas  of 
some  inf luential  States  and  contradict  the  spirit  and 
mandate  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  itself.  We  say 
this  because  some,  unfortunately,  have  succeeded  in 
turning back the clock to the time of the Human Rights 
Commission and are once again politicizing the work of 
the Human Rights Council.
This  was  made  abundantly  clear  when  resolutions 
were  adopted  in  which  the  Council  condemned  the 
violations of human rights in some developing countries 
but  continued  to  ignore  and  dismiss  mechanisms  to 
address  human  rights  situations  and  their  violations 
in  so-called  developed  States.  In  those  States,  racism 
is  rampant,  as  are  xenophobia,  racial  discrimination, 
discrimination 
and 
immigrants,  and  inhumane  and  abusive  treatment  of 
detainees and refugees. These countries have militarily 
invaded  sovereign  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  and,  more  important,  violated  their  right  to 
development by adopting unilateral, coercive economic 
measures  against  the  peoples  of  developing  countries. 
The list goes on. 
indigenous 
against 
people 
Unfortunately,  some  Western  States  have  adopted 
a  double  standard  in  their  understanding  of  terrorism. 
There is the terrorism that others perpetrate, which must 
be fought by all means and methods. Some States have 
even gone to extremes in combating such terrorism and 
stressing the need to uproot and condemn it. That is, in 
their view, the first kind of terrorism; the second is the 
kind  that  those  Western  States  themselves  perpetrate. 
That  is  acceptable  terrorism,  which  can  be  committed 
without drawing any criticism. On the contrary, it can 
be defended. This is a dangerous precedent and a stain 
on the record of the Human Rights Council and on the 
logic of international relations. 
I would like to provide a real example from Egypt in 
1906. In a small village called Denishwei, soldiers and 
officers from the British occupation at the time wanted 
to  go  on  a  hunting  trip.  They  violated  the  sanctity  of 
women  in  that  village,  whose  people  rose  in  protest 
against  those  unwanted  visitors.  Many  people  were 
killed,  including  one  British  officer.  The  result  was 
that  the  British  occupation  organized  an  impromptu 
12-58933
21
A/67/PV.37
field  court  in  the  village  of  Denishwei  and  sentenced 
dozens of its residents to death. That is why it is known 
as the massacre of Denishwei. A well-known Egyptian 
poet named Hafez Ibrahim was a contemporary of that 
massacre. He described the massacre in a line of poetry 
that says that killing an individual, even in a jungle, is 
an unforgivable crime, but killing peaceful people is a 
controversial issue.
in 
the  report  of 
(A/HRC/RES/19/1, 
The  four  resolutions  pertaining  to  Syria  and 
the  Human  Rights 
mentioned 
Council 
A/HRC/RES/19/22, 
A/HRC/RES/20/22 and A/HRC/S-19/2) were based on 
unilateral media reports. The texts of those resolutions 
were  drafted  using  misleading  and  hostile  terms  and 
language that were without precedent in their hatefulness 
towards  the  Syrian  people  and  Government.  They 
condemn only one side — the Syrian Government. Not 
in a single paragraph do they demand an end to violence 
or  to  the  disarming  of  the  armed  terrorist  groups,  or 
that a national dialogue be launched to resolve the crisis 
peacefully on the basis of the six-point plan, the Geneva 
declaration and the Brahimi commission. 
These resolutions go even further. Their sponsors, 
who  claim  to  defend  the  human  rights  of  the  Syrian 
people,  have  neglected  to  mention  the  deteriorating 
economic and humanitarian situation in Syria, which is a 
result of the coercive unilateral economic measures that 
have been imposed on the Syrian people by the States 
members of the European Union, the United States and, 
unfortunately, some Arab States. This occurred despite 
the fact that the report of the independent international 
commission  of  inquiry  (A/HRC/21/50),  which  was 
established by the Human Rights Council itself, noted 
the impact of the economic measures on the livelihoods 
of  the  Syrian  people.  Needless  to  say,  these  coercive 
measures threaten the sovereignty and independence of 
States and f lagrantly violate the Charter of the United 
and the principles of human rights. 
I  can  only  say  that  it  is  regrettable  and  shameful 
for the League of Arab States and the Organization of 
Islamic  Cooperation  to  have  been  the  first  to  impose 
these inhumane sanctions on the Syrian people, in direct 
violation of their human rights. It is also shameful for 
many of the rich countries who are members of those two 
organizations  not  to  offer  a  single  dollar  in  assistance 
to  the  Syrian  people,  while  they  channel  millions  of 
dollars to terrorist mercenaries and Al-Qaida elements 
to  enable  them  to  shed  the  blood  of  innocent  Syrians 
and destroy the Syrian State.
Recently,  The  Telegraph,  a  British  newspaper, 
published  an  important  article  on  a  British  doctor 
named  Shajul  Islam.  He  had  decided  to  go  and  wage 
jihad  in  Syria,  so  he  left  his  career  as  a  physician  in 
Britain  and  went  to  Syria  to  wage  jihad.  The  British 
newspaper  described  this  man  as  a  doctor  by  day  and 
a  terrorist  by  night  in  Syria.  Yet  there  are  those  who 
still insist that there is no terrorism in Syria, no armed 
groups in Syria and no ships arriving from Libya laden 
with  weapons  and  endowed  with  Qatari  funding  and 
operational facilities from Turkey, to be used to kill the 
Syrian people.
My country is experiencing a humanitarian crisis, 
the  reasons  for  which  are  well  known.  Terrorism 
has  struck  my  country  because  of  the  systematic 
violations  perpetrated  by  members  of  terrorist  armed 
groups  that  are  funded  and  backed  from  outside.  The 
foreign  backing  of  these  armed  groups  and  their  vital 
role  in  what  is  happening  in  Syria  have  been  clearly 
proved, and evidence thereof is now in the hands of the 
Security  Council,  the  Secretary-General  and  the  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights.
the  humanitarian  crisis  and 
My  country’s  Government  has  offered  every  form 
of  cooperation  with  a  view  to  arriving  at  a  solution 
to 
the  deteriorating 
economic  conditions.  Damascus  has  received  and 
continues  to  receive  delegations  from  the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA), 
the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  and 
many other international delegations, whether political, 
spiritual or media-related. 
My country has also accepted the revised response 
plan and granted permission to many non-governmental 
organizations  to  participate  in  the  plan  in  order  to 
respond  to  humanitarian  needs.  We  also  guarantee 
entry  visas  to  humanitarian  aid  workers  and  have 
issued  licenses  and  eased  all  bureaucratic  measures 
to  allow  OCHA  to  conduct  field  visits  to  many  areas 
inside  Syria  without  delay.  As  Council  members  and 
the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  know,  we 
have participated constructively in the six meetings of 
the Syrian Humanitarian Forum, held in Geneva.
Despite  all  that,  some  nations  that  are  known  to 
support  terrorism  in  my  country  continue  to  try  to 
demonize  the  Syrian  Government  and  to  portray  it  as 
a  killer  of  its  own  people,  while  completely  ignoring 
the presence of armed terrorist groups in Syria and the 
22 
12-58933
Syrian Government’s duty to combat those groups and 
those that back them.
Here, I would like to stress that the solution to the 
humanitarian crisis in Syria is not through the political 
animosity  of  some  States  members  of  the  Council 
towards Syria in order to settle old and new scores with 
us.  Nor  will  it  be  achieved  by  fanning  the  f lames  of 
discord  or  by  funding  or  harbouring  armed  terrorists 
and  encouraging  them  to  perpetrate  massacres  and 
terrorist bombings against Syrian civilians. 
Instead,  a  solution  can  be  achieved  by  abiding  by 
the  principle  of  providing  humanitarian  assistance,  in 
particular under resolution 46/182, which determines the 
mechanisms and conditions for providing humanitarian 
assistance to States Members of the United Nations. A 
solution  could  be  ensured  if  donor  States  and  bodies 
were  to  demonstrate  the  political  will  to  provide  what 
has  been  pledged  and  to  end  the  policy  of  imposing 
unilateral economic measures.
The politicized resolutions of the Security Council 
hamper and will continue to impede efforts to establish 
a  Human  Rights  Council  that  addresses  all  human 
rights  violations  in  the  world  on  the  basis  of  clear 
standards that apply to all without discrimination. Such 
resolutions  obstruct  the  impartial  role  of  international 
parties in putting an end to the crisis in Syria. Instead, 
they actually encourage more inf lexibility, the rejection 
of  national  dialogue  and  continued  armed  violence, 
killing  and  bloodshed.  They  will  hamper  any  of  the 
steps recently taken by Syria to foster cooperation and 
openness towards international missions.
In conclusion, we hope to see Ambassador Lasserre 
use  and  intervene  with  her  significant  moral  weight, 
which we acknowledge and respect, to demand that the 
States involved in harbouring, arming, supporting and 
financing  the  armed  groups  stop  what  they  are  doing 
to  all  Syrian  people  and  the  entire  Syrian  State  and 
society.  Those  States  are  responsible  for  terrorizing 
Syrian  citizens  and  inciting  them  to  f lee  their  homes, 
thereby turning them into refugees, and for using armed 
terrorist groups as a tool to destabilize Syria, to strike 
at the unity and cohesion of its people, and to create a 
prefabricated humanitarian problem that seeks to stain 
Syria’s image and to harm its international record as a 
people and a State.
Mr.  Och  (Mongolia):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to 
join  previous  speakers  in  expressing  our  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of  the 
A/67/PV.37
Human  Rights  Council,  for  the  introduction  of  the 
Council’s  report  (A/67/53).  As  we  can  see  from  the 
report,  in  recent  times  continuous  efforts  have  been 
made  by  the  Council  to  respond  to  numerous  human 
rights situations around the world.
It  has  been  highlighted  on  many  occasions  that 
human  rights  are  increasingly  interrelated  with  the 
efforts  of  the  international  community  for  peace, 
security  and  economic  and  social  development,  for 
the  promotion  of  democracy  and  other  advances.  My 
delegation fully shares that view. In that respect, I wish 
to  underline  the  importance  of  actions  taken  by  the 
Council,  the  special  procedures  and  the  human  rights 
treaty  bodies,  and  reaffirm  our  full  support  for  the 
efforts of the Council to fulfil its mandate.
to 
Today,  we  are  witnessing  an  unprecedented 
international quest for the effective implementation of 
human  rights.  As  we  all  know,  our  leaders  reaffirmed 
their  strong  commitment 
the  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights  at  the  High-level  Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels,  held  last  September  (see  A/67/PV.3).  There  is 
an impressive record of accession to and ratification of 
international human rights instruments, as well as the 
establishment  of  national  human  rights  machinery  by 
many countries. Nevertheless, numerous human rights 
challenges  persist,  including  poverty,  discrimination, 
religious  intolerance,  armed  conf licts,  refugee  f lows, 
arbitrary  executions  and  the  impact  of  the  pervasive 
economic and financial crisis. One of the latest examples 
is  the  ongoing  conf lict  in  Syria,  with  its  devastating 
consequences on civilians.
Those  challenges  call  on  Member  States 
to 
implement  sound  policies  at  the  national  level  and  to 
promote  enhanced  cooperation  at  the  international 
level.  Moreover,  the  States  concerned  need  more 
substantive  support  from  the  international  community 
to  address  such  issues  through  enhanced  technical 
assistance  and  advisory  services  aimed  at  capacity-
building  and  human  rights  education.  It  is  gratifying 
to  note  in  that  regard  that  the  Council  has  made  great 
strides to support States in implementing their human 
rights  obligations,  to  advocate  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights and to advance the process 
of strengthening the treaty bodies.
Over the past 20 years, Mongolia has been actively 
engaged in carrying out an extensive legal reform aimed 
at  bringing  national  laws  in  line  with  international 
standards. Thus, Mongolia is undertaking step-by-step 
12-58933
23
A/67/PV.37
measures to amend the existing legislation with the aim 
of abolishing the death penalty in law and practice.
Among others, Mongolia attaches great importance 
to the implementation of its reporting obligation under 
the human rights treaties. Thus, the first national human 
rights report of Mongolia was reviewed in 2010 under 
the Universal Periodic Review, a unique mechanism for 
promoting human rights worldwide.
We  have  shown  consistent  support  for  the  special 
procedures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  In  October, 
an  independent  group  of  experts  appointed  by  the 
Human Rights Council visited Mongolia to examine the 
human rights impacts of business activity in Mongolia. 
I am pleased to note that it was the first country mission 
of the Working Group on Business and Human Rights 
since  its  establishment  in  June  2011.  My  Government 
attaches particular importance to the issue of examining 
and addressing the impacts that businesses have on the 
human rights of its people. Consequently, the emphasis 
on human rights has been made in the action plan of the 
new Government for 2012-2016.
It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  the  Working  Group 
focused on identifying negative impacts, but also positive 
impacts  that  business  activities  could  have  on  the  full 
spectrum  of  human  rights,  from  creating  employment 
to  driving  economic  growth.  As  Ms.  Margaret  Jungk, 
a  member  of  the  Working  Group,  highlighted  in  her 
statement  summarizing  the  work  of  the  mission,  the 
key  challenge  for  any  country,  especially  one  that  is 
undergoing rapid economic development like Mongolia, 
is  to  maximize  these  positive  effects  and,  at  the  same 
time, minimize the negative effects.
Once  again  I  wish  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
the  Working  Group  for  its  important  findings  and 
recommendations.  I  am  confident  that  due  attention 
shall  be  given  to  those  recommendations  and  to  the 
respective  actions  taken  by  the  Government  and 
businesses  in  Mongolia.  We  also  look  forward  to 
receiving soon the final report of the Working Group, 
which  is  expected  to  be  submitted  to  the  Council  in 
June 2013.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
Government’s  commitment  to  continued  cooperation 
with the Council, as expressed by our Foreign Minister 
during  his  meeting  with  the  President  of  the  Council 
in October in Geneva. As the Assembly is well aware, 
Mongolia,  in  its  desire  to  make  an  active  contribution 
to  the  work  of  the  Council,  presented  its  candidature 
to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  elections  to 
be  held  in  2015.  It  is  my  earnest  hope  that,  with  the 
support  of  fellow  member  States,  we  will  succeed  in 
our endeavours.
Mr.  Rahman  (Bangladesh):  My  delegation  would 
like  to  thank  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre, 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for  having 
presented  the  Council’s  annual  report  (A/67/53).  We 
appreciate  her  able  stewardship  in  taking  forward  the 
work of the Council over the past year. We welcome the 
opportunity to interact with her and share our views on 
the activities of the Council.
My  delegation  has  had  and  still  has  high 
expectations of the Human Rights Council, the principal 
body of the United Nations dedicated to the promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights.  The  Council,  with  its 
institutional machinery such as the Universal Periodic 
Review (UPR) mechanism, the special procedures, the 
Human  Rights  Council  Advisory  Committee  and  the 
complaint procedure, is truly in a position to contribute 
to significant improvements in the enjoyment of human 
rights.
By  establishing  the  Council,  our  predecessors 
intended  to  usher  in  a  new  era  in  the  human  rights 
discourse and to introduce a new culture when it comes 
to dealing with human rights. We are disturbed by the 
news  of  increasing  polarization  in  the  Council.  That 
is  not  a  good  sign.  If  we  do  not  move  away  from  that 
path  and  seek  mutual  respect  and  understanding,  the 
body may soon be as discredited as its predecessor, the 
Commission for Human Rights. 
It  is  important  to  nurture  the  Council  as  a  forum 
that  fosters  dialogue  and  cooperation  instead  of 
divisiveness and confrontation. We should focus efforts 
on making human rights mechanisms more transparent, 
accountable  and  balanced  so  that  real  change  can  be 
brought  to  the  realm  of  human  rights  protections.  As 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  said,  all  victims 
of  human  rights  abuses  should  be  able  to  look  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council  as  a  forum  and  a  springboard 
for action.
The  creation  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
mechanism was one of the most significant innovations 
in  the  area  of  human  rights.  Its  greatest  strength  lies 
in  its  universality,  with  all  countries  facing  scrutiny 
regardless of their region, size or inf luence. This peer 
review  mechanism  aims  to  create  an  environment  of 
mutual trust, confidence and understanding. If we can 
24 
12-58933
exploit its full potential, the mechanism may change the 
culture of human rights discourse. With the second cycle 
of the UPR in motion, we expect it to be developed into 
a more meaningful and effective mechanism so that we 
can eventually get rid of naming and shaming through 
the controversial country-specific mechanisms.
Our  delegation  shares  the  view  that  the  system  of 
special procedures is important to ensure the effective 
promotion and proper protection of human rights. The 
streamlined appointment procedure for mandate holders 
can  be  mentioned  in  that  connection.  The  selection 
process  may  be  further  improved,  inter  alia,  through 
efficient  outreach  and  periodic  updating  of  the  roster. 
With the code of conduct in place, we believe that the 
special  procedure  is  on  the  right  track  to  garner  the 
greater legitimacy it has lacked. However, there are still 
reports  of  non-compliance  with  the  code,  which  was 
very meticulously crafted and unanimously adopted in 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  would  emphasize  the 
critical  importance  that  the  mandate  holders  abide  by 
the code of conduct and remain within their respective 
jurisdictions for the proper functioning and credibility 
of the procedure.
On  the  creation  of  new  mandates,  the  Council 
should  be  careful  to  avoid  unnecessary  proliferation 
or  attaching  undue  importance  to  a  particular  group 
of  rights  or  thematic  areas.  In  total,  there  should  be  a 
balance  between  the  two  major  groups  of  rights.  The 
Council  should  also  avoid  bringing  in  controversial 
issues  or  norms  that  are  not  universally  accepted 
through any loopholes.
The  relationship  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  with 
the  Human  Rights  Council  remains  an  issue.  We 
attach  great  importance  to  the  position  of  the  High 
Commissioner  in  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights.  High  Commissioners  have,  over  the  years, 
played  an  important  role  in  upholding  human  rights 
all over the world. We support non-interference in her 
activities.  However,  as  is  the  case  in  other  bodies  of 
the United Nations, the Human Rights Council should 
have  oversight  responsibility.  That  issue  should  be 
considered at an appropriate time.
The  Council  is  organizing  ever  more  special 
sessions  to  deal  with  human  right  emergencies.  The 
initiative,  nevertheless,  has  to  date  remained  focused 
on country situations. There are critical thematic issues 
that deserve urgent attention. We had one such session 
A/67/PV.37
on  the  impact  of  the  financial  crisis  on  human  rights 
couple  of  years  ago.  There  should  be  many  more  such 
sessions on contemporary issues of importance. I could 
mention,  for  example,  the  incitement  of  hatred  on 
the  Internet.  There  is  an  urgent  need  to  address  such 
developments  before  they  create  further  divisions  in 
society and breed further intolerance and hatred.
As  the  workload  of  the  Council  continues  to 
increase, we cannot and should not ignore its financial 
needs. It is a pity that the Council is not provided with 
sufficient money to function properly. A mechanism like 
the UPR suffers due to inadequate budget provisions for 
translation services. If we want to see it work as a robust 
body, we have to ensure that the requisite means are at 
its  disposal.  We  would  urge  the  General  Assembly  to 
take  this  into  consideration  when  budgetary  questions 
are considered in the relevant Committees.
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Ms. Laura Dupuy Lasserre, for the report on the work 
of the Council (A/67/53) and her briefing. We reiterate 
our  unconditional  support  for  the  main  body  of  the 
Organization devoted to human rights.
Today we are considering the content of the report 
delivered  pursuant  to  the  agreements  reached  in 
resolution  65/281.  Given  the  importance  of  this  topic, 
we  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Third  Committee  for 
having refrained from scheduling Committee meetings 
at the same time as those of the General Assembly, and 
we encourage the continuation of this practice. 
The work of the Council during the reporting period 
has  been  commensurate  with  the  challenges  faced  by 
the  Council.  This  should  continue  and  to  that  end  we 
should meet its financial needs, among other things. The 
successful conclusion of the first cycle of the Universal 
Periodic  Review  was  an  important  achievement.  We 
encourage  all  States  to  take  part  in  the  second  cycle 
with the same enthusiasm and to commit at the highest 
level  to  applying  its  recommendations.  We  need  to 
seek recommendations that are ever more specific and 
concrete and seek mechanisms for cooperation to build 
the national capacities needed to implement them.
Costa  Rica  has  been  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council since June 2011. It is from that position 
of  undoubtedly  great  responsibility  that  we  address 
this  meeting.  Within  and  outside  of  the  Council,  our 
country  cooperates  actively  on  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  We  are  guided  by  the 
12-58933
25
A/67/PV.37
principles  of  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity, 
non-selectivity, non-politicization, constructive dialogue 
and cooperation. 
Costa  Rica  is  working  actively  in  interregional 
groups  and  seeking  to  build  bridges  and  contribute 
to  the  effective  implementation  of  the  decisions  and 
resolutions  issued  by  the  Council.  Working  with 
other  countries  and  through  long-term  dialogue  and 
negotiations,  we  have  focused  in  particular  on  areas 
such  as  human  rights  education  and  training  and  the 
relationship between human rights, climate change and 
the environment. 
As  part  of  a  like-minded  group  of  countries,  we 
were  able  to  bring  about  the  adoption  of  the  United 
Nations  declaration  on  human  rights  education  and 
training and the second phase of the World Programme 
for  Human  Rights  Education.  Furthermore,  at  the 
twenty-first session, held last September, we sponsored 
a new and successful resolution that follows up on the 
Programme  (A/HRC/RES/21/14).  The  resolution  was 
sponsored by 85 delegations and adopted by consensus. 
During the nineteenth session, we reached consensus 
in the Council on establishing the post of independent 
expert on the issue of human rights obligations relating 
to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable 
environment (see A/HRC/RES/19/10). 
We  have  also  sought  to  contribute,  as  Chair 
of  the  Council’s  situations  group,  and  specifically 
through  Ambassador  Christian  Guillermet-Fernández, 
to  fostering  renewed  involvement  by  members  and 
generating greater credibility and efficacy in that body. 
Another  of  our  Council  priorities  has  been  the 
promotion of the human right to peace. In that regard, 
we  should  like  to  highlight  the  resolution  adopted  at 
the  twentieth  session  that  establishes  a  working  group 
to  progressively  negotiate  a  draft  declaration  on  the 
subject  (A/HRC/RES/20/15).  As  a  country  with  no 
army,  which  has  entrusted  its  very  existence  to  the 
proper  functioning  of  the  multilateral  system,  that 
codification initiative has been of great importance.
Our commitment to the cause of human rights is not 
merely  a  key  component  of  our  foreign  policy,  it  also 
has  deep  roots  in  our  national  identity  and  practices. 
We have had mandatory and free primary education for 
both boys and girls since 1869. We abolished the death 
penalty  in  1882  and  our  army  in  1949.  We  continue 
to  honour  that  historic  tradition  with  a  significant 
investment in social development and the promotion of 
economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  Costa  Rica  was 
the  first  country  to  sign  the  International  Covenant 
on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  the  International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. We 
played a key role in the establishment of the Office of 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  in  the 
adoption  of  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention 
against Torture. 
More recently, we have been working constructively 
and  actively  in  Geneva  and  New  York  in  the  review 
process  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  process 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  treaty  bodies.  We  have 
extended  an  open  invitation  to  all  special  procedures 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  are  ready  and  willing 
to  cooperate  effectively  with 
the  human  rights 
mechanisms.
Costa  Rica  would  like  to  continue  to  cooperate 
constructively  with  the  work  of  the  Council  and  has 
therefore  presented 
its  candidacy  for  re-election 
for  the  period  from  2014  to  2017.  We  are  committed 
to  remaining  open  to  dialogue  and  transparency 
concerning our actions in that body.
Mr.  Sareer  (Maldives):  Let  me  first  of  all  extend 
our  appreciation  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for 
being here with us today and for the presentation of the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/67/53)  to  the 
General Assembly for this session. 
We take note of a number of important milestones 
achieved  in  the  wake  of  an  eventful  and  highly 
productive  year  for  the  Council  and  welcome  the 
leadership  role  taken  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
on  the  most  pressing  and  urgent  matters  before  the 
international  community,  where  other  United  Nations 
organs have failed.
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our 
sincere congratulations to all Member States that were 
recently  elected  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
term  from  2013  to  2016.  Maldives  looks  forward  to 
working closely with those delegations in Geneva in a 
constructive  manner  on  all  issues  before  the  Council 
when they assume their seats.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Maldives  has  continued  to  play  an  active  part  in 
supporting  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights in the international arena as well as domestically. 
26 
12-58933
We will continue to work within the Council with other 
Member States, United Nations bodies and civil society 
to  ensure  that  universal  values  on  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  basic  rights  are  upheld  and  respected  by 
all States Members of the United Nations.
Since  assuming  its  seat  on  the  Council  in  2010, 
Maldives  has  collaborated  with  all  delegations  on 
numerous  issues  that  we  deemed  important  to  the 
effective functioning of the international human rights 
machinery.  In  March,  during  the  nineteenth  session 
of  the  Council,  Maldives,  along  with  a  core  group  of 
countries, submitted a draft resolution entitled “Human 
rights  and 
the  environment”  (A/HRC/RES/19/10), 
which  established  a  special  mandate  holder  to  look 
into  the  relationship  between  human  rights  and  the 
environment.  We  believe  that  the  protection  of  the 
environment and human rights are intrinsically linked, 
and we hope that the work of the independent expert on 
human rights and the environment will bring to fruition 
the  core  interests  of  Member  States  at  the  national, 
regional  and  international  levels  on  this  important 
issue.
Maldives  also  worked  with  a  cross-regional 
group  of  countries  to  create  a  voluntary  trust  fund  to 
support activities designed to enhance and improve the 
capacities of least developed countries and small island 
developing States in order to encourage their effective 
participation in the work of the Council. The resolution 
(A/HRC/RES/19/26),  which  had  113  sponsors,  with 
broad  cross-regional  support,  establishes  a  strong 
mandate to encourage smaller delegations to participate 
more  effectively  and  actively  in  the  consultative  and 
decision-making  processes  on  human  rights  matters. 
The  initiative  was  also  important  to  a  number  of 
delegations  that  do  not  have  diplomatic  representation 
in  Geneva.  It  provided  them  with  a  mechanism 
through  which  their  contributions  to  the  Council  can 
be  facilitated,  and  it  upheld  the  principle  of  universal 
participation in all matters relating to human rights.
During  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Council,  in 
September, Maldives, along with a number of other key 
partners, continued to support the initiative on the right 
to freedom of assembly and of association. This year’s 
resolution (A/HRC/RES/21/16) was focused on the role 
of  civil  society  in  promoting  the  freedom  of  assembly 
and  association.  In  2012,  the  same  group  of  countries 
created  the  mandate  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. 
We  believe 
is  a  substantial  cross-regional 
that 
A/67/PV.37
achievement  in  the  light  of  the  Arab  Spring  and  the 
ongoing efforts to promote human rights by members to 
add value to the revolutionary changes on the ground.
On  the  domestic  front,  Maldives  is  currently 
engaged  in  a  process  to  consolidate  its  newly  formed 
democratic institutional framework. While the country 
is faced with a number of challenges in that endeavour, 
emphasis  has  been  given  to  the  most  immediate 
measures,  such  as  enhancing  the  administration  of 
justice,  strengthening  independent  institutions  and 
oversight  mechanisms,  and  improving  the  capabilities 
of law enforcement agencies. Those reforms are aimed 
at  ensuring  that  human  rights  and  greater  freedoms 
are  effectively  implemented,  as  stipulated  under  the 
Constitution of Maldives.
The Human Rights Council, in our view, has largely 
been  a  success  and  a  force  for  good.  In  recent  times, 
we  have  all  too  often  seen  the  politics  of  diplomacy 
impede the work of United Nations bodies with little or 
no regard to the basic rights of ordinary people, which 
we are committed to protecting. The lack of consensus 
and the impotence of the Security Council are one such 
example demonstrating that members need to do more 
in working together to overcome their differences.
The work of the Human Rights Council on matters 
relating  to  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  respective 
countries  has  been  commendable,  and  Maldives 
will  continue  to  strongly  support  mechanisms  in  the 
Council that are aimed at the independent investigation 
of atrocities committed in countries, especially in such 
tumultuous  times  as  these,  with  a  view  to  enabling 
transparent,  open  and  inclusive  processes  that  would 
effectively  uphold  the  basic  tenets  of  why  the  Human 
Rights Council was created in the first place.
On  the  issue  of  Palestine,  Maldives  will  continue 
to  support  the  creation  of  an  independent  State  of 
Palestine,  living  side  by  side  and  at  peace  with  the 
State of Israel. We remain, however, deeply concerned 
by  the  repeated  violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinians  living  under  appalling  conditions  in  the 
occupied territories.
In conclusion, Maldives looks forward to an active 
year in the Council, and we would like to see a continued 
focus on the situation in the Middle East. We would also 
like to see the active participation of all Member States 
in the work of the Council, especially the small island 
developing States and the least developed countries. 
12-58933
27
A/67/PV.37
importance 
to 
Maldives  attaches  great 
the 
advancement of women and the promotion and protection 
of the rights of the child. During our membership of the 
Council  so  far,  Maldives  has  been  a  strong  supporter 
of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  process  and  has 
supported various initiatives in the Council that would 
further  enhance  and  improve  multilateral  efforts  to 
promote human rights domestically and globally.
Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
my  delegation  expresses  its  thanks  and  appreciation 
to  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  for  the  comprehensive 
statement  that  she  delivered  here  and  the  one  that  she 
will  deliver  to  the  Third  Committee  later  today,  in 
accordance with resolution 65/281. We wish her every 
success in accomplishing her tasks. 
The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
six  years  ago  was  an  important  achievement  for 
the  General  Assembly  and  its  subsidiary  organs  in 
addressing  human  rights  issues  on  the  basis  of  the 
equality  of  all  member  States,  and  as  ref lected  in  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review,  to  which  all  members 
without  exception  are  subject.  The  Council  also 
provides advice, in accordance with its mandate set out 
in  resolution  60/251,  through  the  special  procedures 
system.  That  is  an  important  service  provided  that 
mandate holders adhere to the principles of impartiality 
and avoid politicization and selectivity, according to the 
text of the mandates and the Code of Conduct for Special 
Procedures  Mandate-holders  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  adopted  by  the  Council  in  its  resolution  5/2 
and re-emphasized in its resolution 11/11 of June 2009.
In  reiterating  the  Sudan’s  cooperation  with  the 
Human Rights Council, it is my pleasure to report that 
the  Sudan  submitted  its  first  report  to  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  in  Geneva  last  year,  accepted  its 
recommendations and established a special mechanism 
to  implement  them.  The  mechanism  is  a  high-level 
national  commission  under  the  Advisory  Council 
on  Human  Rights,  which  is  the  highest  Government 
authority  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  in  the  Sudan.  Those  positive  developments, 
which  were  included  in  the  report,  in  addition  to  the 
Sudan’s  signing  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child  and  its  two  Optional  Protocols,  have  been 
welcomed  by  the  Council.  My  delegation  reiterates 
once more its readiness to abide by and implement all 
the recommendations of the Universal Periodic Review.
At  its  most  recent  session,  the  Human  Rights 
Council unanimously decided to extend the mandate of 
the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights 
in  the  Sudan  in  order  to  provide  technical  assistance 
under  agenda  item  10.  The  decision  represented  the 
Council’s  recognition  of  the  positive  developments  in 
the  human  rights  situation  in  the  Sudan  and  clearly 
ref lects  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of  the  Sudan 
to  promote  and  protect  human  rights.  My  delegation 
welcomes that decision and hopes that the Independent 
Expert  will  help  the  new  national  human  rights 
commission  to  become  fully  operational,  on  the  basis 
of  the  Paris  Principles.  During  the  first  five  months 
of  its  existence,  the  commission  has  drawn  up  a 
comprehensive  plan  of  action  to  protect  and  promote 
human  rights,  in  cooperation  and  coordination  with 
national and international partners. 
In  addition,  my  country  has  seen  several  positive 
developments  that  will  certainly  contribute  to  the 
protection and promotion of human rights in the Sudan. 
They  include  the  establishment  of  the  Transitional 
Darfur  Regional  Authority  under  the  Doha  Darfur 
Peace  Agreement,  a  special  court  for  Darfur,  and  the 
post of special prosecutor for Darfur. 
The  Government  has  accepted  the  humanitarian 
mandate  for  Blue  Nile  and  Southern  Kordofan. 
Moreover, in an economic initiative for the two States, 
a  series  of  measures  have  been  adopted  to  expand 
agriculture,  including  the  heightening  of  the  Roseires 
Dam  in  Blue  Nile  province.  In  Abyei,  the  deployment 
of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei 
is complete, and the signing of the nine sub-agreements 
on  cooperation  with  our  sister  country,  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  represents  the  culmination  of  many 
efforts. 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  calls  for  sufficient 
funds to be made available to enable the Council and the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  thoroughly 
fulfil their responsibilities, notably by giving economic, 
social and cultural rights the same priority accorded to 
civil and political rights and by opposing the tendency 
to  exploit  concept  of  the  freedom  of  expression  and 
opinion  to  insult  religions,  faiths  and  creeds,  or  to 
justify  acts  that  incite  hatred  and  violence  based  on 
religions  or  creeds.  We  also  ask  the  Council  to  avoid 
the inclusion of controversial concepts in its work. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
28 
12-58933
2002,  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  observer  of  the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Mr. Bermeo Estrella (Inter-Parliamentary Union): 
The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) continues to work 
for  stronger  parliamentary  engagement  with  existing 
United  Nations  mechanisms  to  enhance  respect  for 
human rights. Since the beginning of the year, the work 
has  centred  in  particular  on  associating  parliaments 
more  closely  with  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  in  particular  its  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR) mechanism.
The  IPU  believes  that  parliaments  have  a  critical 
role  to  play  to  ensure  that  the  UPR  becomes  ever 
more  effective.  Parliaments,  through  their  legislative, 
oversight  and  budgetary 
functions,  can  directly 
contribute  to  the  success  of  the  UPR.  However,  a 
study that we conducted in 2009 to assess the extent to 
which  parliaments  were  involved  in  the  UPR  process 
found that the vast majority were not even aware of the 
existence of the UPR.
organize 
The  IPU  has  therefore  made  it  a  priority  to  raise 
awareness  among  parliaments  about  the  UPR  and 
about  the  contribution  that  they  can  make  to  it.  From 
the  beginning  of  this  year,  the  IPU  has  systematically 
informed  parliaments  of  the  forthcoming  examination 
of  their  countries’  national  reports.  We  have  started 
to 
for 
parliamentarians to promote a better understanding of 
the UPR and of the role of parliaments. As part of those 
efforts,  earlier  this  week  the  IPU,  together  with  the 
Commonwealth Secretariat, brought together more than 
70 parliamentarians and staff from some 30 countries. 
Without exception, participants underscored our earlier 
findings  that  once  parliaments  knew  about  the  UPR, 
they wanted to be associated with it. 
capacity-building  workshops 
The question, of course, is how to do that. There is no 
doubt that parliaments have a key role to play in helping 
to  ensure  that  UPR  recommendations  are  translated 
into  national  action.  However,  should  parliaments 
also contribute to the drafting of the report? There are 
some  who  say  it  should  not,  because  it  is  the  preserve 
of  executive  branches  and  because  parliaments  would 
otherwise  compromise  its  independence.  However, 
others  believe  that  nothing  prevents  parliaments  from 
contributing  to  the  report  and  subsequently  holding 
Governments 
implementation 
of  the  UPR  recommendations.  Whichever  side  one 
would  choose,  there  seems  to  be  consensus  that,  as 
to  account  for 
the 
A/67/PV.37
a  minimum,  parliaments  need  to  be  informed  of  the 
report and should have a possibility to debate it before 
it is sent to the Council in Geneva.
Should  members  of  parliament  also  be  part  of  the 
official delegation presenting the report to the Council? 
Again, opinions differ — largely for the same reasons as 
those related to parliaments’ contributions to the drafting 
process. However, no one seems to disagree that there 
is  great  merit  in  allowing  members  of  parliament,  in 
an observer capacity as part of their official delegation 
or  otherwise,  to  attend  the  interactive  dialogue  in  the 
Council on their countries’ situation. As a result, they 
will gain direct insight into the functioning of the UPR 
and  get  first-hand  impressions  of  how  the  executive 
fared  in  the  process,  in  particular  how  it  responded 
to  questions  and  concerns  from  the  Council  and  what 
commitments it decided to undertake. 
Ideally,  parliamentarians  attending  the  Council’s 
sessions  should  represent  both 
the  majority  and 
opposition  parties  in  parliament  and  work  directly  on 
human  rights  issues,  such  as  members  of  dedicated 
parliamentary human rights committees.
Allowing  parliaments  to  contribute  to  the  UPR 
requires  the  Council  to  take  full  account  of  that 
contribution  and,  where  possible,  seek  to  promote  it 
in  the  course  of  its  own  deliberations.  For  instance, 
nothing  is  preventing  the  Council  from  questioning 
official  delegations  whether  their  parliament  has  seen 
or debated the report. In the same vein, the Council can 
ask  official  delegations  if  they  intend  to  subsequently 
inform their parliaments of the UPR recommendations.
The  IPU,  with  the  support  of  the  presidency  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  has  undertaken  several 
activities  this  year  to  raise  awareness  among  Council 
members  and  the  human  rights  community  at  large 
to  illustrate  in  concrete  terms  how  parliaments  have 
directly  contributed  to  the  impact  of  its  work  at  the 
national level, and thus bring home the message that the 
Council has much to gain by enhancing parliamentary 
involvement in its work. The IPU intends to take those 
initiatives to the next level in 2013 and to advocate for 
the  organization  of  a  panel  discussion  of  the  Council, 
as  part  of  its  official  programme,  on  the  contribution 
of  parliaments  to  the  UPR  and,  more  largely,  to  the 
promotion of human rights, so as to strengthen synergies 
between the Council and parliaments.
Let me conclude by referring to resolution 66/261, 
which  the  Assembly  adopted  in  May,  on  interaction 
12-58933
29
A/67/PV.37
between  the  United  Nations,  national  parliaments  and 
the IPU and in which the Assembly encourages the IPU 
to  provide  a  parliamentary  contribution  to  the  Human 
Rights Council. 
I hope that my intervention has shown the Assembly 
that  the  IPU  is  as  determined,  as  ever,  to  play  its  role 
in  ensuring  greater  parliamentary  involvement  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and,  more  specifically,  in  the 
UPR, with a view to enhancing its effectiveness.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 64. 
A representative has requested to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  Before  giving  the  f loor  to  that 
representative, may I remind members that statements 
in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second intervention and should be made by delegations 
from their seats. 
I now give the ﬂ oor to the representative of Bahrain.
Ms.  Alkhalifa  (Bahrain):  We  take  the  f loor  in 
exercise of the right of reply to the statement given by the 
representative of the Principality of Liechtenstein. The 
Kingdom of Bahrain would like to note that any observer 
of  the  transparent  interaction  and  active  engagement 
of  the  Kingdom  with  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights and the various mandate holders should 
be reassured of Bahrain’s commitment to the promotion 
and the protection of human rights.
Our  participation  as  the  first  country  to  undergo 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  process  in  both 
its  first  and  second  cycles,  in  connection  with  which 
we fully accepted 90 per cent of the recommendations 
presented  in  September,  is  a  fact  that  should  be 
welcomed and lauded by our peers. Any doubt cast on 
the  commitments  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  ref lect 
blatant disregard of the continuous efforts made by the 
Kingdom to fulfil its international obligations.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  will  continue  on  its 
path  of  reform,  a  fact  that  is  ref lected  in  the  various 
reports  of  our  international  partners.  Those  reports, 
such  as  that  of  the  working  group  of  the  UPR,  are  all 
public  documents.  We  call  on  the  representative  of 
Liechtenstein to familiarize himself with their findings, 
to ease any concern.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 64. 
Agenda item 75
Oceans and the law of the sea
Draft resolution (A/67/L.4)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before 
we  proceed,  I  would  like  to  remind  members  that  the 
debate on agenda item 75 and its sub-items (a) and (b) is 
scheduled to the place on Tuesday, 11 December. I should 
also  like  to  remind  members  that  the  commemoration 
of the thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
will take place on Monday, 10 December.
We  shall  now  consider  draft  resolution  A/67/L.4, 
entitled “Plenary meetings of the General Assembly on 
10 and 11 December 2012 devoted to the consideration 
of the item entitled ‘Oceans and the law of the sea’ and 
to the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea”.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  wish  to 
announce that since the issuance of document A/67/L.4, 
the  following  countries  have  also  become  sponsors  of 
the draft resolution: the Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, 
Belize,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  Greece, 
Lithuania, Madagascar, Montenegro, Poland, Portugal, 
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, 
Suriname, Tonga and the United Republic of Tanzania. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that the General Assembly decides to adopt draft 
resolution A/67/L.4?
Draft 
resolution 
A/67/L.4 
was 
adopted
(resolution 67/5).
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  Argentina  to  make  a 
statement following the adoption of resolution 67/5.
Ms.  Millicay  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina  would 
the  many 
delegations  that  have  worked  in  a  very  cooperative 
and  active  way  to  promote  the  commemoration  of 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  United 
to  acknowledge 
like 
30 
12-58933
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which will 
be  a  joint  effort  on  the  part  of  many  Member  States, 
with the usual support of the Division for Ocean Affairs 
and the Law of the Sea and the Office of Legal Affairs. 
We would therefore like to thank all Member States for 
their support for the adoption of resolution 67/5.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 75.
Agenda item 110 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(b) Election of thirty members of the 
United Nations Commission on International 
Trade Law
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
30  outgoing  Member  States  of  the  Commission  on 
International  Trade  Law  are  as  follows:  Armenia, 
Bahrain,  Benin,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  China,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Malaysia,  Malta,  Mexico,  Morocco, 
Namibia,  Norway,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Russian 
Federation,  Senegal,  Singapore,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka  and  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland. Those Member States are eligible for 
immediate re-election.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  as  of 
8  July  2013,  the  following  States  will  continue  to  be 
represented  on  the  Commission:  Algeria,  Argentina, 
Australia,  Austria,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Georgia, 
India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy, Jordan, 
Kenya,  Mauritius,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  the 
Philippines, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, 
the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela.  Therefore,  those  30  States  are 
not eligible for election.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election  of  30  members  to  replace  those  members 
whose  term  of  office  will  expire  on  7  July  2013.  In 
accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, the 
election  shall  be  held  by  secret  ballot  and  there  shall 
be  no  nominations.  I  should  like  to  recall,  however, 
paragraph  16  of  decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice 
of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for  elections  to 
A/67/PV.37
subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of  candidates 
corresponds to the number of seats to be filled should 
become  standard,  unless  a  delegation  specifically 
requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  With 
regard to candidatures, I should like to inform members 
of the following.
For the seven seats from among the African States, 
there  are  seven  endorsed  candidates:  Cameroon,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Liberia,  Mauritania,  Namibia,  Sierra  Leone 
and Zambia.
For  the  seven  seats  from  among  the  Asia-Pacific 
States,  there  are  seven  endorsed  candidates:  China, 
Indonesia,  Japan,  Kuwait,  Malaysia,  the  Republic  of 
Korea and Singapore.
For the four seats from among the Eastern European 
States,  the  group  has  endorsed  Armenia,  Bulgaria, 
Hungary and the Russian Federation.
For the five seats from among the Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States, 
five  endorsed 
candidates:  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  Mexico 
and Panama.
there  are 
For  the  seven  seats  from  among  the  Western 
European  and  other  States,  there  are  six  endorsed 
candidates:  Denmark,  France,  Germany,  Greece, 
Switzerland  and  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and Northern Ireland.
Since the number of candidates of the five regional 
groups  is  equal  to  or  less  than  the  number  of  seats  to 
be filled by each group, may I take it that the General 
Assembly  wishes  to  declare  those  candidates  elected 
for a six-year term beginning on 8 July 2013?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
congratulate  the  following  States  that  the  General 
Assembly has declared elected members of the United 
Nations  Commission  on  International  Trade  Law  for 
a  six-year  term  beginning  on  8  July  2013:  Armenia, 
Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  China,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Denmark, 
Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  France,  Germany,  Greece, 
Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait, Liberia, 
12-58933
31
A/67/PV.37
Malaysia,  Mauritania,  Mexico,  Namibia,  Panama, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Russian  Federation,  Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Zambia.
General Assembly will hold elections upon notification 
by interested Member States from that region.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 110.
With  regard  to  the  one  remaining  vacancy  from 
among  the  Western  European  and  other  States,  the 
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
32 
12-58933
