United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
30th plenary meeting
Monday, 5 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.30
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Gaspar Martins 
(Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair.
IAEA  statute  and  the  1957  Agreement  governing  the 
relationship between the IAEA and the United Nations.
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 85
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
The  draft  resolution  is  the  means  by  which  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  statement  of  the 
IAEA  Director  General  and  of  the  resolutions  and 
decisions  adopted  by  the  General  Conference,  and 
recognizes the work of the Agency.
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/67/152) 
The  draft  text  before  the  General  Assembly  was 
discussed  in  Vienna  among  IAEA  member  States,  as 
well as during informal consultations here in New York.
Draft resolution (A/67/L.3)
The Acting President: Due to the extreme weather 
conditions experienced last week, the Director General 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency was unable 
to  travel  to  New  York  to  introduce  the  report  of  the 
Agency for the year 2011. His prepared statement will 
subsequently  be  issued  as  a  note  by  the  Secretary-
General.  Copies  of  the  prepared  statement  are  also 
available here in the Hall. 
It  is  a  simple  factual  update  of  last  year’s  text 
(resolution 66/7) that merely changes the relevant dates 
and lists the relevant resolutions and decisions adopted 
by  the  General  Conference  at  its  fifty-sixth  plenary 
meeting.
It  is  my  pleasure  to  commend  this  text  for 
consideration  by  the  General  Assembly.  We  sincerely 
hope that it will attract consensus again this year.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
I now give the f loor to the representative of Canada 
observer of the European Union.
to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.3.
Ms. Ventura (Canada): On behalf of the Canadian 
delegation,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  Chair  of  the  Board 
of  Governors  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  it  is  my  pleasure  to  introduce  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Report  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”.  As  colleagues  are  aware, 
the  General  Assembly  considers  this  draft  resolution 
annually. It derives from a requirement pursuant to the 
Mr.  Mayr-Harting  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The acceding country Croatia; the candidate countries 
the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Iceland  and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  the 
European Free Trade Area countries Liechtenstein and 
Norway, members of the European Economic Area; as 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-57291 (E)
*1257291*
A/67/PV.30
well  as  Ukraine  and  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  align 
themselves with this statement.
We  are  pleased  to  support  the  draft  resolution 
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency”  (IAEA),  a  report  that  again  reaffirms  the 
indispensable  role  of  the  Agency  with  regard  to  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  and  in  assisting 
the  development  and  practical  application  of  atomic 
energy  for  peaceful  uses,  as  well  as  in  technology 
transfer and in nuclear verification, safety and security.
The European Union remains committed to effective 
multilateral action against the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction and emphasizes the importance of 
universalizing  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We call on States that have not 
done so to join the Treaty as non-nuclear-weapon States. 
The EU welcomed the consensus reached on the Action 
Plan at the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
The Action Plan, as well as the agreement on a process 
for  the  implementation  of  the  1995  NPТ  resolution  on 
the Middle East, including a conference on a zone free 
of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East to be 
convened  in  2012,  demonstrated  our  common  resolve 
not  only  to  uphold  but  also  to  strengthen  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime.  In  that  respect,  the  EU 
commends  the  Facilitator,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jaakko 
Laajava,  for  the  professional  work  and  consultations 
carried out, as well as for his report on the preparation 
of a 2012 conference on a zone free of weapons of mass 
destruction  in  the  Middle  East  presented  during  the 
NPT  Preparatory  Committee  meeting  held  earlier  this 
year in Vienna.
The  European  Union  recalls  the  IAEA  forum 
held  in  November  2011  on  that  issue  and  welcomes 
the  Agency’s  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
1995  resolution,  including  through  the  preparation  of 
background  documentation  for  the  2012  conference 
regarding modalities for a zone free of nuclear weapons 
and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  their 
delivery systems, as requested by the 2010 NPT Review 
Conference Action Plan. In that regard, with a view to 
contributing to those international efforts, the European 
Union  is  pleased  to  reaffirm  its  support  for  a  process 
leading to the establishment of a zone free of weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East, as demonstrated 
by the recent adoption, on 23 July, of a new EU Council 
decision. As announced at this year’s NPT Preparatory 
Committee, the EU is pleased to announce that a track 
2  seminar  by  the  EU  Non-Proliferation  Consortium  is 
taking  place  in  Brussels  today  and  tomorrow  and  is 
expected to allow for an open exchange of views on all 
aspects related to the creation of a zone free of weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East.
The  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  reaffirmed  the 
role of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
in  verifying  and  ensuring  compliance  by  States  with 
their safeguards obligations, with a view to preventing 
the  diversion  of  nuclear  material  from  peaceful  uses. 
The  European  Union  remains  deeply  concerned 
by  the  protracted  and  serious  challenges  to  the 
non-proliferation regime posed by the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  concerns  reinforced  by  the 
recent  reports  of  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  to 
the  Board  of  Governors.  Once  again,  the  Board  felt  it 
necessary to adopt a resolution on Iran reaffirming the 
requirements  of  its  2011  resolution  and  urging  Iran  to 
comply fully and without delay with all its obligations 
under the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, 
as  well  as  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Board  of 
Governors,  including  the  application  of  modified 
Code 3.1 and the implementation and prompt entry into 
force of the Additional Protocol, The European Union 
fully supported the adoption of that resolution.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  stress  again 
that  the  Security  Council,  as  the  final  arbiter  of 
international  peace  and  security,  has  the  mandate  to 
take appropriate action in the event of non-compliance 
with NPT obligations, including safeguards agreements. 
The  Agency’s  system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental 
component of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
plays  an  indispensable  role  in  the  implementation  of 
the  NPT.  In  that  respect,  the  European  Union  would 
like  to  express  its  satisfaction  that  the  IAEA  General 
Conference  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority  a 
resolution entitled “Strengthening the effectiveness and 
improving the efficiency of the safeguards system and 
the application of the Model Additional Protocol”. The 
European Union is grateful for the wide support received 
from the IAEA member States for what is traditionally 
an EU-sponsored resolution. The EU reiterates its view 
that  the  measures  contained  in  the  model  additional 
protocol form an integral part of the IAEA safeguards 
system, and that comprehensive safeguards agreements, 
together  with  additional  protocols,  constitute 
the 
current  IAEA  verification  standard.  The  European 
Union  calls  for  the  universalization  of  those  two 
2 
12-57291
essential  instruments  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  system 
without delay.
With  regard  to  nuclear  safety,  in  particular  with 
regard  to  the  EU  responses  to  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
nuclear  accident,  I  would  like  to  mention  that,  on 
25  March  2011,  the  European  Council  called  for 
comprehensive  risk  and  safety  assessments  —  stress 
tests  —  to  be  conducted  at  European  nuclear  power 
plants. The 17 national reports — from 15 EU countries, 
Switzerland and Ukraine — covering all nuclear power 
plants  of  the  EU  and  of  participating  countries  have 
been  assessed  by  80  reviewers  from  Europe.  Many 
observers  from  third  countries  also  took  part  in  that 
unprecedented initiative. The peer-reviewed report was 
transmitted to the June 2012 European Council meeting. 
In  July,  an  action  plan  was  agreed  upon  in  order  to 
follow  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
of  the  report.  As  requested  by  the  European  Council 
in  March  2011,  the  European  Commission  will  now 
examine  possible  evolutions  of  European  legislation, 
notably of the nuclear safety directive, and submit them 
to Member States.
The  EU  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
implementation  of  the  highest  standards  of  nuclear 
safety  worldwide.  International  cooperation  is  crucial 
to  promoting  the  global  nuclear  safety  framework. 
In  that  context,  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety, 
the  Convention  on  Assistance  in  Case  of  a  Nuclear 
Accident or Radiological Emergency, the Convention on 
Early Notification of a Nuclear Accident and the Joint 
Convention  are  instruments  of  major  importance.  The 
European  Union  calls  on  all  Member  States  that  have 
not  yet  done  so  to  become  contracting  parties  to  the 
relevant  safety  Conventions  without  delay.  The  IAEA 
Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  is  also  an  important 
instrument  that  should  be  implemented  by  Member 
States and the Secretariat.
We face a new era of threats from non-State actors, 
particularly terrorists, who seek to acquire weapons of 
mass destruction and related technology and materials 
and present one of the potentially most destructive risks 
to global security. In the light of such ongoing threats, 
the  EU  actively  supports  Security  Council  resolutions 
1540  (2004)  and  1887  (2009),  as  well  as  a  number  of 
other  international  initiatives,  such  as  the  Group  of 
Eight Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons 
and  Materials  of  Mass  Destruction,  the  Proliferation 
Security  Initiative,  the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat 
Nuclear  Terrorism,  the  Nuclear  Security  Summits 
A/67/PV.30
and  the  Global  Threat  Reduction  Initiative.  The  EU 
looks  forward  to  the  Agency’s  July  2013  lnternational 
Conference  on  Nuclear  Security:  Enhancing  Global 
Efforts,  which  is  open  to  all  States,  and  welcomes the 
role that international processes and initiatives can play 
in  facilitating  synergy  and  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
nuclear security.
The  EU  supports  IAEA  activities  in  the  areas  of 
nuclear security in the framework of the implementation 
of the EU’s strategy against the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction. The EU, together with individual 
member  States,  is  one  of  the  main  contributors  to 
the  Nuclear  Security  Fund,  having  provided  around 
€30 million to date. So far, more than 50 countries have 
benefited  from  assistance  funded  through  EU  joint 
actions and Council decisions. That number continues 
to grow.
During  the  period  2007-2013,  under  the  EU 
Instrument for Stability, nearly €260 million has been 
dedicated  to  chemical,  biological,  radiological  and 
nuclear  (CBRN)  risk  mitigation  worldwide.  Of  that 
amount,  more  than  €100  million  has  been  allocated 
to  the  EU’s  regional  CBRN  centres  of  excellence 
initiative. The objective of the centres of excellence is 
to  invest  in  strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of 
stakeholders in partner countries to mitigate chemical, 
biological, radiological or nuclear risks, irrespective of 
their origin. At the same time, the European Union has 
stepped up its outreach and coordination efforts to key 
partners and international organizations. On 19 April, 
the  Security  Council  welcomed  the  establishment  of 
the  CBRN  centres  of  excellence  (see  S/PV.6752);  a 
major conference on the centres was held at the United 
Nations in New York on 22 June; and EU services are 
about to finalize a broad understanding on coordination 
with  the  IAEA’s  Office  of  Nuclear  Security  that  will 
include regular work on a strategic and technical level 
on  the  radiological  and  nuclear  aspects  of  the  CBRN 
centres of excellence initiative.
Effective  physical  protection  is  of  the  utmost 
importance in order to prevent nuclear material falling 
into  the  hands  of  terrorists  or  being  accidentally 
misused, as well as to protect nuclear facilities against 
unauthorized use and malicious acts. The EU therefore 
urges  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  become 
party  to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of 
Nuclear Material and its 2005 amendment.
Finally,  the  European  Union  uses  several  of  its 
financial  instruments  to  support  both  the  IAEA  and 
12-57291
3
A/67/PV.30
cooperation  with  third  countries  in  the  peaceful  uses 
of nuclear energy and technology, amounting to a total 
of  some  €150  million  per  year.  Where  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy  are  concerned,  the  Agency 
plays  an  important  role  in  the  areas  of  human  health, 
food and agriculture, water resources, the environment 
and nuclear energy, as well as in nuclear and radiation 
safety,  in  participating  Member  States.  Part  of  the 
EU’s  funding  through  its  financial  instruments  is 
implemented  in  third  countries  through  the  IAEA’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund,  to  which  the  EU  and  its 
member States are among the largest contributors. We 
also  make  substantial  contributions  to  the  Agency’s 
Peaceful  Uses  Initiative.  On  4  May,  on  the  margins 
of  the  meetings  of  the  Preparatory  Committee  for 
the  2015  Review  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  the  EU 
organized  a  side  event  on  the  topic  of  peaceful  uses, 
with the participation of the Agency.
Mr.  Ferguson  (Australia):  Australia  commends 
Director  General  Amano  for  his  report  (A/67/152)  on 
the  achievements  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) and on the challenges it will face over 
the coming years.
As  a  member  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors, 
Australia  takes  very  seriously  the  responsibilities  that 
entails. We attach great importance to the central role 
played by the IAEA in improving the safety and security 
of  nuclear  activities,  enlarging 
the  humanitarian 
contribution made by nuclear technology and verifying 
States’ non-proliferation commitments.
In  the  post-Fukushima  accident  era,  Director 
General  Amano’s  ongoing  actions  and  initiatives  have 
improved  international  nuclear  safety,  particularly 
through  the  implementation  of  the  IAEA  Action  Plan 
on  Nuclear  Safety.  The  Action  Plan  is  a  strong  and 
practical demonstration of the priority the international 
community  attaches  to  achieving  the  highest  possible 
standards in nuclear safety. We encourage States to be 
proactive  in  undertaking  the  actions  outlined  in  the 
Plan,  and  any  additional  actions  that  are  relevant  to 
their own circumstances.
Australia  welcomes  the  positive  outcomes  of 
the  second  Extraordinary  Meeting  of  Parties  to  the 
Convention on Nuclear Safety, held in August, especially 
the  upgrading  of  the  rules  and  guidelines  that  will 
strengthen nuclear safety through more comprehensive 
national reporting and robust peer-review processes.
While important, safety measures are not the only 
elements  required  to  properly  protect  people  and  the 
environment. The IAEA’s nuclear security programme 
and its role in international nuclear security initiatives 
and  activities  are  equally 
important.  The  IAEA 
safeguards  system  is  one  of  the  central  pillars  of  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  To  be  completely 
effective,  the  IAEA’s  safeguards  system  must  have 
universal coverage. The universalization of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
is  indispensable  to  the  system. We  continue  to  call  on 
those States that have not signed and ratified the Treaty 
to do so as soon as possible, and to place their nuclear 
facilities  under  IAEA  safeguards.  We  continue  to  call 
on  all  those  States  party  to  the  NPT  that  have  yet  to 
fulfil  their  relevant  obligations  under  the  Treaty  to 
conclude comprehensive safeguards agreements and to 
adhere to the Additional Protocols  without delay.
States must comply with their safeguards obligations. 
IAEA  safeguards  obligations  are  not  voluntary.  It  is 
therefore  a  matter  of  deep  concern  that  certain  States 
continue to be in breach of their obligations. We call on 
those  countries  to  engage  with  the  Agency  to  resolve 
all issues, demonstrate conclusively the peaceful intent 
of their nuclear activities, and comply fully with all of 
their  international  obligations,  including  addressing 
the concerns of the international community. Australia 
commends  the  Agency  for  its  continuing  efforts  to 
resolve those issues.
Australia  continues  to  support  the  Agency  in 
developing  safeguards  techniques  and  approaches. 
Recently,  the  University  of  Western  Australia  became 
the  newest  member  of  the  Agency’s  network  of 
analytical  laboratories.  In  that  role,  it  will  analyse 
environmental samples with the ability to detect illicit 
nuclear activities.
Australia is committed to working closely with the 
Agency  and  our  neighbours  in  the  Asia  Pacific  region 
on  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  energy.  Australia 
shares  its  skilled  scientific  research  base,  equipment 
and  personnel  with  regional  neighbours  and  other 
Member  States,  and  we  provide  strong  support  to  the 
Agency’s technical cooperation programme.
The Agency plays a vital role in enhancing States’ 
capacities to prevent, diagnose and treat health problems 
through the use of nuclear techniques. We should never 
lose  sight  of  such  humanitarian  benefits,  to  which  the 
IAEA is uniquely able to provide worldwide support.
4 
12-57291
Australia  has  recently  announced  an  expansion 
of  its  nuclear  medicine  production  capability,  which 
in  coming  years  will  be  able  to  supply  a  large  part 
of  global  need  for  medical  radioisotopes.  It  is  crucial 
that  we  advance  both  health  outcomes  from  nuclear 
medicine  and  global  nuclear  non-proliferation  efforts 
by  minimizing  the  civilian  use  of  highly  enriched 
uranium.  Our  new  facility  is  based  solely  on  the  use 
of  low-enriched  uranium.  Australia  is  also  further 
developing  its  specialized  nuclear  waste  management 
technology, Synroc, to encapsulate and store safely the 
waste from its expanded nuclear medicine production.
Finally,  the  external  environment  in  which  the 
Agency  operates  is  highly  f luid,  and  we  must  ensure 
that  the  Agency  has  the  capability  to  respond  quickly 
and  effectively  to  external  developments,  be  they 
related  to  nuclear  safety,  physical  protection,  nuclear 
proliferation or sustainable development. Australia will 
continue to provide the technical, financial and political 
support to ensure that the Agency can help States meet 
the challenges of today and tomorrow.
Australia  is  pleased  to  sponsor  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.3 on the report of the IAEA. 
Ms.  Tandon  (India):  My  delegation  thanks  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) for preparing the annual report for the 
year 2011, as transmitted in the note by the Secretary-
General (A/67/152).
The increasing global demand for energy, as well as 
concerns about climate change, volatile fossil fuel prices 
and  the  security  of  energy  supplies,  remain  essential 
factors  in  deciding  an  energy  mix  for  any  country. 
This is aptly ref lected by the observation in the report 
that,  despite  the  nuclear  accident  in  Japan  in  March 
2011,  nuclear  power  remains  an  important  option  not 
only  for  countries  with  existing  nuclear  programmes, 
but also for developing countries with growing energy 
requirements.  We  note  that  the  IAEA’s  post-accident 
projections  of  global  nuclear  power  capacity  in  2030 
are  slightly  lower  than  previously  projected,  as  some 
countries  have  deferred  their  decisions  to  introduce 
nuclear programmes.
The Fukushima accident elicited a global response 
to the issue of enhancing nuclear safety, with Member 
States reassessing the safety of existing nuclear power 
plants.  While  the  results  of  these  reassessments  will 
be  further  refined  as  necessary  in  the  light  of  new 
information  that  might  emerge  in  the  future,  it  is  a 
A/67/PV.30
matter  of  satisfaction  that  the  data  collected  by  the 
IAEA and the World Association of Nuclear Operators 
shows that in 2011 the level of nuclear safety among the 
435 operating nuclear power plants in operation around 
the world remained high. 
However,  as  Fukushima  has  demonstrated,  there 
is  no  room  for  complacency.  The  IAEA  should  also 
take  all  necessary  measures  to  allay  misapprehension 
among  the  public  and  member  States  about  the  safety 
of nuclear power plants, taking into account the current 
advances  in  relevant  design  and  technology  areas. 
Therefore,  we  would  like  to  call  on  all  stakeholders 
to  work  collectively  to  continue  to  enhance  nuclear 
safety. In this context, we would like to encourage the 
IAEA to make concerted efforts to enable the free f low 
of  the  latest  information,  technology  and  equipment 
pertaining to nuclear safety among member States.
Nuclear  energy  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in 
achieving the objectives of India’s sustainable economic 
growth. At the same time, India is extensively engaged 
in  the  development  of  nuclear  technologies  in  diverse 
fields  extending  beyond  nuclear  power.  These  include 
applications for improved crop varieties, crop protection 
and 
technologies, 
radiodiagnosis  and  radiotherapy  for  diseases,  and 
technologies for safe drinking water, among others.
radiation-based 
post-harvest 
The nuclear power programme in India is oriented 
towards  maximizing  the  energy  potential  of  available 
uranium  resources  and  the  utilization  of  its  large 
thorium  reserves.  We  believe  that  available  global 
uranium 
the  projected 
expansion  of  nuclear  power  without  adopting  a  closed 
fuel  cycle  approach  and  subsequently  adopting  a 
thorium fuel cycle. 
resources  cannot  sustain 
In  this  context,  we  would  like  to  mention  the 
IAEA  technical  meeting  held  in  India  in  October 
2011,  where  over  50  experts  from  20  member  States 
deliberated on diverse subjects related to thorium. The 
participants  noted  thorium’s  promise  in  extending  the 
global  deployment  of  nuclear  power,  and  concluded 
that the technology is sufficiently mature for an initial 
commercial  deployment.  We  encourage  the  IAEA 
to  further  engage  in  the  thorium  fuel  cycle.  With  its 
excellent  physical  and  nuclear  properties,  thorium  is 
widely and rightly viewed as the fuel of the future.
Currently, 
reactors 
with  an  installed  capacity  of  4,780  megawatts,  and 
seven  reactors  under  construction  with  an  installed 
India  has  20  operating 
12-57291
5
A/67/PV.30
capacity  of  5,300  megawatts.  The  first  unit  of  the 
1,000-megawatt  electrical  pressurized  heavy-water 
reactor at Kudankulam is due to attain first criticality 
very  shortly.  The  second  unit  is  to  follow  soon  after. 
Work  is  proceeding  on  four  nuclear  power  plants 
of 
indigenous  design  of  700-megawatt  electrical 
pressurized  heavy-water  reactor  type,  two  each  at 
Rawatbhata,  in  Rajasthan,  and  Kakrapar,  in  Gujarat. 
The  prototype  fast  breeder  reactor  of  500  megawatts 
is also in an advanced stage of construction. A number 
of  other  reactor  projects  are  under  negotiation  with 
prospective foreign vendors for the setting up of nuclear 
power plants at different sites.
We  were  happy  to  welcome  three  new  members 
into the fold of the International Project on Innovative 
Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles (INPRO) in 2011. India 
has  been  associated  with  INPRO  since  its  inception, 
and  has  contributed  to  its  progress.  We  believe  that 
this programme has great potential for making nuclear 
energy  accessible  in  a  safe  and  sustainable  manner, 
particularly  to  new  entrants  embarking  on  this  path. 
The IAEA, through INPRO, should continue to play a 
central role in developing innovative technology for the 
safe utilization of nuclear power.
My delegation fully supports other activities of the 
IAEA  undertaken  to  stimulate  innovation  in  nuclear 
power  through  technical  working  groups  for  different 
reactor technologies, small  and medium-sized reactors, 
and  non-electrical  applications.  The  coordinated 
research  projects  organized  by  the  IAEA  provide  an 
excellent  forum  for  understanding  and  developing 
technology.
India  attaches  great  importance  to  the  IAEA’s 
work  in  the  field  of  nuclear  science.  We  contribute  to 
these  activities  through  participation  in  the  technical 
meetings and coordinated research projects and support 
the IAEA’s programme in nuclear fusion.
My delegation believes that the IAEA’s programmes 
and  achievements  in  nuclear  applications  in  food 
and  agriculture,  human  health  and  nutrition,  water 
resources  management,  protection  of  the  environment 
and industry go a long way towards meeting the needs 
of  developing  countries.  We  will  continue  to  provide 
our  support  to  these  IAEA  programmes,  including 
by  offering  experts’  services  and  seats  in  reputed 
institutions for training fellows from member States.
With these comments, we take note of the IAEA’s 
annual  report  for  2011.  India  supports  the  work  of  the 
IAEA  and  has  sponsored  draft  resolution  A/67/L.3  on 
the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Mr. Lazarev (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): On behalf 
of the delegation of the Republic of Belarus, allow me to 
express our appreciation for the report of the Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  on  the  activities  of  the 
Agency over the past year (see A/67/152). The Belarusian 
delegation  reiterates  its  support  for  the  Agency  as  the 
leading  international  organization  contributing  to  the 
safe, reliable and peaceful use of nuclear energy for the 
purposes of sustainable development.
The  past  year  has  been  difficult  for  the  entire 
international  nuclear  community,  in  particular  the 
IAEA,  in  the  light  of  the  accident  at  the  Fukushima 
nuclear  power  plant  in  Japan.  A  quarter  of  a  century 
after  the  Chernobyl  disaster,  the  world  was  again 
confronted  by  a  nuclear  accident.  That  has  forced  us 
to  reassess  the  issue  of  nuclear  safety  and  of  how  to 
ensure it. 
We  note  the  great  amount  of  work  undertaken  by 
the  Agency’s  secretariat,  in  cooperation  with  member 
States, to adapt current approaches to ensuring a global 
nuclear safety regime. Belarus has taken an active part 
in that process and intends to make its own contribution 
towards implementing the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear 
Safety, endorsed at the fifty-fifth regular session of the 
General Conference in September 2011. 
Belarus attaches the utmost importance to ensuring 
nuclear and radiation safety in the implementation of its 
national nuclear power programme. The safety of such 
future programmes is a State priority and our country 
undertakes  all  the  necessary  phases  of  developing 
nuclear  energy  in  close  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
and in strict compliance with its norms and standards. 
That  was  reaffirmed  by  the  successful  hosting  of  the 
Integrated  Nuclear  Infrastructure  Review  mission 
in  Belarus  in  June.  The  efforts  of  Belarus  were 
highly  commended  during  visits  to  that  country  by 
the  Agency’s  Director  General,  Yukiya  Amano,  in 
April  and  by  its  Deputy  Director  General,  Alexander 
Bychkov, in October. 
We note the fruitful cooperation with the Agency’s 
Secretariat  on  strengthening  nuclear  security.  With 
IAEA  assistance,  Belarus  is  implementing  a  relevant 
and  coordinated  plan  of  action.  We  believe  such 
activities  to  be  a  significant  contribution  of  Belarus 
6 
12-57291
towards bolstering nuclear security not only nationally 
but also regionally.
Belarus  is  firmly  convinced  of  the  importance 
of  the  IAEA’s  coordinating  role  in  the  global  efforts 
to  strengthen  nuclear  security  and  to  prevent  nuclear 
terrorism.  Only  the  agreed  and  joint  actions  of  the 
international  community  in  that  area  can  produce 
tangible  results.  In  that  regard,  we  attach  great 
significance  to  the  implementation  of  and  broader 
participation  by  States  in  the  international  legal 
instruments adopted under the auspices of the Agency, 
including the Convention on the Physical Protection of 
Nuclear Material. 
Belarus  actively  participates  in  the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  through  which 
provision  is  made  for  considerable  assistance  in 
applying nuclear knowledge and technology. The main 
national  priorities  are  the  development  of  the  nuclear 
power  infrastructure,  environmental  protection,  the 
rehabilitation  of  territories  that  suffered  as  a  result 
of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  and  health  issues.  We 
believe  that  maintaining  and  bolstering  the  Technical 
Cooperation Programme, as well as ensuring its robust 
financial  support,  must  remain  a  priority  among  the 
IAEA  activities.  As  a  firm  and  steadfast  champion  of 
nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  Belarus 
strictly  complies  with  its  obligations  under  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  its 
safeguards  agreement.  We  deem  it  very  important  to 
strengthen the IAEA safeguards system, including the 
additional  protocol,  as  the  standard  for  verification 
activity.
In conclusion, we would like to reiterate our support 
for the Agency’s work. We note that Belarus is a sponsor 
of draft resolution A/67/L.3, which has been submitted 
for the consideration of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese delegation welcomes the report of Mr. Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency,  on 
the  Agency 
(see A/67/152).
the  work  of 
Over  the  past  year,  the  IAEA  has  conscientiously 
performed  its  duties  in  accordance  with  its  statutory 
mandate  by  maintaining  a  balanced  development  of 
its  two  major  mandates  of promoting  the peaceful  use 
of  nuclear  energy  and  of  preventing  the  proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons,  and  has  achieved  fruitful  results 
in  various  areas  of  its  work.  In  the  field  of  nuclear 
A/67/PV.30
safety  in  particular,  the  Agency  has  taken  a  series  of 
measures  to  ensure  the  comprehensive  and  effective 
implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety 
since  its  adoption  at  the  fifty-fifth  regular  session  of 
the  General  Conference  of  the  IAEA.  China  believes 
that such efforts by the Agency are of great importance 
to  restoring  public  confidence  in  nuclear  energy,  to 
improving  international  nuclear  safety  and  emergency 
response  and  to  ensuring  the  safe  and  sustainable 
development of global nuclear energy.
At 
same 
time, 
the 
through 
its  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme,  the  Agency  has  promoted 
the application of nuclear technology in a broad range 
of  areas,  such  as  public  health,  medical  services, 
agriculture and environmental protection. On the basis 
of the Programme, the Agency has provided important 
guidance to developing countries on developing nuclear 
energy.  It  has  also  supported  and  assisted  member 
States  in  strengthening  their  nuclear  security  and 
safety capabilities by establishing the Nuclear Security 
Guidance  Committee  and  by  drawing  up  guiding 
documents, such as the Nuclear Security Fundamentals. 
The  Agency  continuously  strives  to  promote  the 
universality of the comprehensive safeguards agreement 
and  its  additional  protocol,  and  has  resolutely  carried 
out  its  safeguards  functions.  The  Chinese  delegation 
is  glad  to  see  that  the  Agency’s  work  has  been  widely 
recognized and supported by member States.
The  Fukushima  nuclear  accident  triggered  deep 
ref lection  within  the  international  community  on  the 
use of nuclear energy, and countries increasingly have 
a  sound  understanding  of  nuclear  power  development. 
On the one hand, nuclear power, as a clean and efficient 
form  of  energy,  still  plays  an  irreplaceable  role  in 
safeguarding  energy  security,  in  promoting  economic 
development  and  in  combating  climate  change.  The 
global  trend  for  nuclear  power  development  has 
essentially  remained  the  same.  On  the  other  hand, 
safety  is  a  priority  for  and  fundamental  to  developing 
nuclear energy. 
China  always  adheres  to  the  principle  of  safety 
first in developing nuclear energy. We have established 
a  comprehensive  system  of  legal  standards  and  a 
regulatory  framework  for  nuclear  safety,  and  will 
continue to improve such structures. We have enhanced 
the  management  of  our  nuclear  safety  and  emergency 
response,  stepped  up  efforts  in  staff  training  and 
technology research and development and have a good 
track  record  in  nuclear  safety.  China  has  endorsed 
12-57291
7
A/67/PV.30
and  actively  participated  in  relevant  international  and 
regional exchanges and cooperation in order to further 
improve nuclear safety. To that end, it has also worked 
tirelessly to develop and to implement advanced nuclear 
energy technology.
China  also  attaches  great  importance  to  nuclear 
security  capacity-building  and  supports  and  actively 
participates  in  relevant  international  cooperation.  In 
March 2012, President Hu Jintao attended the Nuclear 
Security  Summit  in  Seoul,  where  he  expounded  on 
China’s policy and measures on nuclear security issues 
in a comprehensive manner. China played a constructive 
role  in  ensuring  the  success  of  the  Summit  and 
made  a  great  contribution  to  promoting  international 
cooperation on nuclear security. 
At  present,  the  construction  of  the  centre  of 
excellence on nuclear security in China, in cooperation 
with  relevant  countries,  is  proceeding  in  an  orderly 
fashion.  China  will  strive  to  make  it  a  regional  centre 
of  excellence,  and  cooperate  and  interconnect  with 
other  centres  to  raise  the  level  of  nuclear  security  in 
the  region.  In  addition,  China  supports  the  leading 
role  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in 
the field of nuclear security, and will continue to offer 
contributions to the Nuclear Security Fund.
is 
The  Agency 
the  most  authoritative  and 
representative international organization in the nuclear 
field.  Member  States  have  high  expectations  for  it. 
It  is  China’s  hope  that,  facing  the  new  situation,  the 
Agency  will  give  priority,  first,  to  further  promoting 
the  implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety and international exchanges and cooperation on 
nuclear  safety,  and  to  helping  member  States  enhance 
nuclear  safety  and  emergency  response  capabilities; 
secondly,  to  further  improving  the  standards  and 
guidelines  in  nuclear  security  and  assisting  Member 
States  in  upgrading  their  national  nuclear  security 
system with a view to playing a more important role in 
enhancing nuclear security at the global level; thirdly, 
to strengthening the safeguards regime and effectively 
preventing  nuclear  proliferation;  and,  fourthly,  to 
maintaining  an  objective  and  impartial  stand  on 
sensitive and controversial nuclear issues, and playing 
a constructive role in peacefully resolving those issues 
through dialogue and cooperation.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  welcomes  and  supports  the  important  role  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
in  such 
The  application  of  nuclear 
technologies 
priority  areas  as  health,  food  security,  environmental 
protection  and  the  management  of  water  resources  is 
an  important  contribution  to  improving  life  on  our 
planet.  Cuba  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
technical  cooperation  activity  of  the  Agency  because 
it is an essential way to promote nuclear technology in 
developing countries. Among other aspects, that can be 
seen  in  the  strict  fulfilment  of  our  obligations  to  the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme.  In  2011, 
Cuba fulfilled on time its financial commitments to the 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund  and  paid  100  per  cent  of 
its  expenses  for  its  national  participation,  achieving  a 
92  per  cent  implementation  rate  for  national  projects, 
which is a figure higher than average. 
In  the  case  of  Cuba,  IAEA  technical  cooperation 
projects  fit  harmoniously  with  our  development 
programmes,  which  guarantees 
impact  and 
continuity. Cuba continues to increase its contributions 
to the IAEA Technical Cooperation Programme through 
various actions, among which I note the contribution of 
44  experts  who  have  participated  in  70  missions,  and 
the organization of 20 courses and/or regional training 
workshops. 
their 
Cuba also considers it vitally important to continue 
cooperation between developing countries. That is why 
we  reiterate  our  support  of  the  Regional  Cooperative 
Arrangements for the Promotion of Nuclear Science and 
Technology in Latin America, an essential mechanism 
for promoting nuclear cooperation among the countries 
of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  We  welcome 
the  measures  that  have  been  taken  to  strengthen  that 
programme,  both  by  participating  countries  and  by 
the  IAEA  itself.  Cuba  is  playing  an  active  role  in that 
process.
The economic trade and financial embargo applied 
by  the  United  States  of  America  to  Cuba  for  more 
than 50 years affects the activities of the IAEA in our 
country and violates the statutes of that body. Because 
of the blockade, the IAEA has had problems purchasing 
specialized equipment for projects in Cuba, since North 
American  companies  or  those  that  provide  training  to 
Cubans are not allowed to sell their equipment for use 
in  Cuba  because  of  the  sanctions.  Furthermore,  it  is 
difficult  for  Cuban  nationals  to  participate  in  training 
courses  organized  in  the  United  States,  which  also 
affects  the  implementation  of  projects  linked  to  the 
fight  against  cancer,  which  is  an  IAEA  priority.  Once 
again,  I  denounce  the  unjust  and  criminal  blockade. 
Cuba  recognizes,  however,  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the 
8 
12-57291
IAEA  secretariat  to  find  alternatives  or  solutions  to 
that problem.
the  work  of 
My  country  appreciates 
the 
Organization  in  the  area  of  nuclear  safety,  and 
stresses  the  fundamental  responsibility  of  States  in 
that  area.  In  March,  Cuba  and  the  IAEA  signed  an 
integrated support plan for physical nuclear safety, the 
implementation  of  which  is  advancing  satisfactorily. 
We welcome the excellent level of cooperation that has 
been  achieved  with  the  IAEA  Department  of  Nuclear 
Safety  and  Security  in  the  implementation  of  projects 
to improve physical nuclear safety in border control and 
installations with Category 1 and 2 radioactive sources. 
Cuba has also hosted regional training events, an area 
of IAEA support that we consider to be fundamental.
My  country  also  welcomes  the  preparations  being 
carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency 
to  host  the  important  international  conference  on 
nuclear security that will take place in Vienna from 1 to 
5 July 2013, with the participation of all member States. 
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that Cuba is at an advanced stage of the constitutional 
process of ratifying the Amendment to the Convention 
on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  We 
reaffirm  the  need  to  strengthen  the  nuclear  security 
regime  at  the  international  level,  and  stress  that  this 
is  the  primary  responsibility  of  States  with  nuclear 
installations.  Moreover,  we  recognize  the  IAEA’s 
central role in promoting and coordinating international 
efforts  and  cooperation  to  strengthen  nuclear  security 
at the global level. 
Cuba  is  part  of  the  small  group  of  countries  that 
have met their commitments in the area of safeguards, 
as certified by the IAEA, which confirms that we are a 
country that does not have undeclared nuclear material 
or  engage  in  undeclared  nuclear  activities.  We  attach 
great importance to the sensitive issue of safeguards and 
to the impartial and professional conduct of the IAEA 
secretariat  in  the  activities  undertaken  in  that  area. 
We  have  repeatedly  criticized  the  manipulation  and 
politicization  of  the  Agency  for  political  purposes,  as 
well as the double standards that unfortunately prevail 
in its analyses. Activities in that area are the exclusive 
competence  of  the  IAEA,  and  we  therefore  reiterate 
our  rejection  of  the  decisions  that  have  involved  the 
Security Council in their consideration. 
Cuba  reaffirms  that  verification  activities  must 
first and foremost respect the sovereignty and national 
A/67/PV.30
interests  of  member  States.  We  call  on  the  IAEA 
secretariat to continue to work to provide a climate of 
impartiality,  trust,  understanding  and  transparency, 
based on objectivity and truth, which will help resolve 
the  specific  issues  of  compliance  with  safeguards 
agreements being considered by the Board of Governors 
and/or  the  General  Conference  of  the  IAEA.  In  that 
regard, we reaffirm the need to respect the inalienable 
right  of  all  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes. 
We  once  again  affirm  our  support  for 
the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  for  a 
negotiated solution to the issue on the part of all those 
involved.  We  are  firmly  convinced  that  only  through 
diplomacy  and  dialogue  through  peaceful  means  will 
it  be  possible  to  achieve  a  long-term  solution  to  the 
nuclear issue on the peninsula.
We  would  also  reiterate  our  support  for  the 
establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons in the 
Middle East. That would be an important contribution to 
achieving the goal of nuclear disarmament and a major 
step forward in the peace process in the region. In order 
to bring that about, Israel should join the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons without further 
delay or conditions and submit its nuclear installations 
to the broad safeguards of the IAEA. Cuba hopes that 
the  conference  on  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction 
in  the  Middle  East  will  be  held  with  success  in  2012 
with the participation of all States of the region.
While we support the important role played by the 
IAEA and its links with the United Nations system, in 
particular with the disarmament machinery, we would 
take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  that  our  joint  efforts 
must  be  to  continue  to  defend  nuclear  disarmament 
as  the  highest  priority  owing  to  the  serious  threat  to 
international peace and security and the survival of the 
human race posed by the existence of more than 20,000 
nuclear warheads and military doctrines and strategies 
that perpetuate their possession and use. 
Finally,  we  wish 
that  nuclear 
disarmament  cannot  be  a  goal  that  is  postponed  or 
subject to conditions. Cuba will stand firm in the battle 
for a better world free of nuclear weapons. 
to  emphasize 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): One and a half years after the 
Great East Japan Earthquake and its resulting tsunamis 
and  the  accident  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  Nuclear 
Power  Station  of  the  Tokyo  Electric  Power  Company, 
12-57291
9
A/67/PV.30
Japan is continuing its efforts, including those directed 
towards  decontaminating  and  restoring  the  stricken 
areas. We once again express our gratitude for the great 
support and assistance that we have received from the 
international community to date.
The  IAEA  is  the  only  international  organization 
that  has  expertise  in  all  aspects  of  nuclear  energy;  its 
expertise  is  not  limited  to  nuclear  safety  and  security. 
We  should  not  lessen  our  efforts  aimed  at  supporting 
the IAEA as it undertakes all its roles.
I  take  the  opportunity  afforded  by  today’s  debate 
to  talk  about  some  of  the  major  steps  we  have  taken 
to  contribute  to  progress  in  the  Nuclear  Safety  Action 
Plan  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  over  the  past  year.  That  issue  is  of  particular 
importance  to  Japan,  as  my  country  is  organizing  the 
Fukushima  Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Safety 
next December, in co-sponsorship with the IAEA. We 
find it important to urge the international community to 
implement the Action Plan and to share lessons learned 
and knowledge derived from the accident.
First  of  all,  in  order  to  strengthen  international 
nuclear safety, we have fully imparted information and 
knowledge  about  the  accident  with  the  international 
community.  Japan  has  already  presented  two  detailed 
reports to the IAEA on the course of events.
Secondly,  Japan  decided  to  strengthen  its  national 
nuclear  regulatory  body.  A  new  regulatory  body,  the 
Nuclear Regulation Authority, was established in order 
to  separate  the  authority  to  regulate  nuclear  energy 
from  that  of  promoting  it,  and  to  ensure  that  the  new 
Authority  will  enjoy  a  high  degree  of  independence 
so  that  it  can  assume  responsibility  for  all  important 
nuclear  regulatory  functions  —  safety  and  security, 
radiation  protection  and,  beginning  in  April  2013, 
safeguards  issues,  that  is,  each  of  the  three  “S” 
functions.  Furthermore,  Japan  welcomes  Director 
General  Amano’s  expressed  intention  to  prepare  a 
comprehensive  report  on 
the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
accident,  which  will  be  finalized  in  2014.  Japan  will 
actively cooperate with that effort.
In  order  to  strengthen  global  nuclear  security, 
Japan will continue to endeavour to provide assistance 
to  developing  countries  through  the  activities  of  the 
Integrated Support Centre for Nuclear Non-proliferation 
and  Nuclear  Security,  working  in  concert  with  other 
countries and the IAEA. Japan appreciates the IAEA’s 
efforts  aimed  at  promoting  the  entry  into  force  of 
the  amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material. Japan, recognizing that 
the amendment will bring important changes to global 
nuclear security, will make the necessary efforts to that 
end.
Japan 
to 
the 
attaches 
importance 
steady 
implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  agreed  at  the  2010 
Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  in  concert 
with  the  IAEA  and  others.  In  that  connection,  Japan 
welcomes  the  ongoing  efforts  by  the  United  States 
and Russia towards the control and disposal of certain 
weapons-grade  plutonium  and  the  implementation  of 
the IAEA verification system. We expect similar efforts 
from the other nuclear-weapon States.
to  efforts  for 
Years  of  constant  effort  by  the  international 
community to improve the effectiveness and efficiency 
of the IAEA safeguards have been indispensable. Thanks 
to them, the number of States with additional protocols 
in  force  increased  from  110  to  119  over  the  past  year, 
which  is  progress  that  Japan  welcomes.  Accordingly, 
Japan  will  further  contribute 
the 
universalization of the additional protocol. Specifically, 
we  will  do  our  utmost  through  the  joint  efforts  of  the 
Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Initiative (NPDI), 
which  is  a  cross-regional  group  that  aims  to  promote 
the  implementation  of  the  consensus  outcome  of  the 
2010 Review Conference and to contribute to the steady 
reduction  of  nuclear  risks.  Japanese  Foreign  Minister 
Gemba  co-chaired  the  most  recent  ministerial  level 
meeting of the NPDI, which was held on 26 September 
at the margins of the General Assembly. As expressed 
in  the  joint  ministerial  statement  of  that  meeting,  the 
NPDI  is  working  on  the  ministerial  letters  that  will 
urge action on the additional protocol.
Regional  nuclear  issues  remain  the  most  pressing 
challenge for the international community. The IAEA, 
carrying  out  its  mission  to,  inter  alia,  prevent  the 
diversion  to  military  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  has  been 
playing  important  roles  on  those  issues  in  the  light  of 
the nuclear non-proliferation regime. 
The  nuclear  issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in 
East  Asia  and  for  the  entire  international  community. 
Its  uranium  enrichment  programme  constitutes  a 
clear violation of Security Council resolutions and the 
September 2005 Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks. 
Japan supports the critical role that the IAEA continues 
10 
12-57291
to  play  in  resolving  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea nuclear issue.
With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  it  is 
indispensable  for  Iran  to  take  substantive  measures  to 
assuage  the  concerns  of  the  international  community 
and build its confidence. Japan will continue to act in 
concert with the international community for a peaceful 
and diplomatic settlement of the issue.
in 
is  pivotal 
The  IAEA,  which 
the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  system,  has  also  been  working 
decisively for the resolution of regional nuclear issues. 
For  instance,  last  November,  the  IAEA  hosted  the 
Forum  on  Experience  of  Possible  Relevance  to  the 
Creation of a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in the Middle 
East to contribute to confidence-building efforts by the 
States concerned.
The  IAEA’s  promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy in a manner that ensures nuclear safety, 
security and safeguards is sure to benefit all the States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Japan  attaches  great 
importance to IAEA technical cooperation and, as part 
of  our  action  in  that  regard,  will  make  a  contribution 
to  the  IAEA  in  the  amount  of  $3.5  million  in  this 
fiscal year, in addition to the contribution made in the 
2011  fiscal  year,  in  order  to  ensure  the  success  of  the 
IAEA’s Peaceful Uses Initiative. In addition, Japan will 
continue  to  contribute  to  the  promotion  of  technical 
cooperation in areas such as radiological science.
In the light of the accident at Tokyo Electric Power 
Company’s  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power  station 
on  11  March  2011,  the  Japanese  Government,  with  a 
view  to  realizing  a  society  not  dependent  on  nuclear 
power  by  the  2030s,  and  while  constantly  reviewing 
and  re-examining  policies  and  carefully  assessing  the 
future  outlook,  including  the  international  situation 
regarding  energy,  will  mobilize  all  possible  policy 
resources  to  demonstrate  to  the  world  a  model  that 
strikes  a  good  balance  between  economic  growth  and 
the shift towards green energy.
As  a  responsible  country  where  this  nuclear 
accident took place, we are taking the lessons from this 
accident  fully  into  account  with  a  view  to  enhancing 
safety in the peaceful use of nuclear energy worldwide, 
Japan will continue to cooperate with the international 
community.  Japan 
the 
challenges posed by this historic accident by benefiting 
widely  from  the  wisdom  of  the  world.  Japan  will 
endeavour,  through  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  and 
to  overcome 
is  resolved 
A/67/PV.30
other countries, to ensure the world of the highest level 
of  safety  and  security  in  its  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy,  and  further  secure  confidence  that  there  is  no 
cause for concern regarding nuclear proliferation in or 
by Japan.
Ms.  Hussain  (Singapore):  The  delegation  of 
Singapore  would  like  to  thank  the  Director  General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr  Yukiya  Amano,  and  his  secretariat  for 
the 
comprehensive annual report of the Agency (see A/67/152).
As the global focal point for nuclear cooperation, the 
IAEA  makes  important  contributions  to  international 
peace  and  security  through  its  promotion  of  the  safe, 
secure  and  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology,  and  nuclear  non-proliferation.  Its  mission 
of safety and security, safeguards and verification, and 
science  and  technology  constitutes  a  comprehensive 
regime.  Singapore  strongly  supports 
the  IAEA’s 
important  work  and  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.3 on the report of the IAEA.
The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in March 
2011  was  a  wake-up  call  against  complacency  with 
regard  to  the  safe  operation  of  nuclear  power  plants 
and  the  effective  regulation  of  the  nuclear  industry. 
It  was  a  painful  reminder  that  safety  can  never  be 
taken  for  granted.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  accident, 
in  September  2011  IAEA  member  States  adopted  the 
IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety,  which  is  now 
being implemented.
Progress  has  been  made  in  many  areas,  and  we 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  secretariat  to  oversee 
the  implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  in  the  12  key 
areas to enhance the global nuclear safety framework. 
However, much more work remains to be done. The full 
and  effective  implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  will 
require the cooperation and commitment of all member 
States,  the  secretariat  and  other  relevant  stakeholders. 
In  this  regard,  we  look  forward  to  a  meaningful  and 
constructive  outcome  at  the  upcoming  Fukushima 
Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety, to be held in 
December 2012. 
At the same time, while the primary responsibility 
for nuclear safety rests with individual States, the far-
reaching  and  potentially  devastating  transboundary 
impact  of  a  nuclear  accident  means  that  ensuring  and 
strengthening the safety standards of nuclear facilities 
are  of  concern  to  the  international  community  as  a 
whole, and in particular the IAEA. Proposals to enhance 
12-57291
11
A/67/PV.30
the  effectiveness  of  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety 
were  also  discussed  during  the  Second  Extraordinary 
Meeting of Contracting Parties to the Convention, held 
in  Vienna  in  August.  We  welcome  efforts  that  would 
strengthen the Convention.
We also encourage the IAEA to step up its capacity-
building  cooperation  with  regional  organizations  to 
promote  and  uphold  the  IAEA  standards  of  safety 
and  security  in  the  development  of  nuclear  energy 
for  peaceful  uses.  This  would  help  to  enhance  and 
strengthen  nuclear  safety  in  the  world.  In  this  regard, 
we  are  pleased  to  report  that  good  progress  has  been 
made on the Network of Nuclear Regulatory Bodies or 
Relevant  Authorities  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  an  initiative  of  Thailand, 
to  establish  a  network  of  nuclear  regulatory  bodies 
among  South-East  Asian  countries,  and  to  enhance 
regional  cooperation  on  nuclear  safety,  security  and 
safeguards matters, including emergency preparedness 
and response and environmental radiation monitoring. 
We  look  forward  to  close  collaborations  between  the 
ASEAN nuclear regulatory network and the IAEA and 
international partners.
Nuclear non-proliferation remains a core aspect of 
the IAEA’s mission. Singapore firmly believes that all 
States have the right to develop and use nuclear energy 
for  peaceful  purposes.  At  the  same  time,  the  IAEA 
has  the  vital  task  of  ensuring  that  nuclear  material 
and  technology  meant  for  peaceful  purposes  are  not 
diverted  for  non-civilian  uses  that  could  threaten 
regional  and  international  peace  and  stability.  The 
IAEA’s  safeguards  and  verification  regimes  remain 
central  to  multilateral  efforts  to  curb  the  proliferation 
of nuclear weapons. It is therefore both in the interests 
and  the  responsibility  of  all  States  to  comply  with 
these  regimes.  In  this  connection,  Singapore  strongly 
urges all States which have not done so to accede to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and the IAEA’s comprehensive safeguards agreements 
and  additional  protocols.  Those  States  that  have  done 
so should fully implement these agreements.
The IAEA plays a central role as the global platform 
for strengthening nuclear security. It focuses on helping 
to  minimize  the  risk  of  nuclear  and  other  radioactive 
material  falling  into  the  hands  of  terrorists,  or  of 
nuclear  facilities  being  subjected  to  malicious  acts. 
In  this  regard,  the  IAEA  Illicit  Trafficking  Database, 
which monitors thefts and other unauthorized activities 
involving  nuclear  and  radioactive  materials,  is  the 
authoritative  global  source  of  information  on  illicit 
trafficking.  Singapore  is  pleased  to  announce  that  we 
joined the IAEA Illicit Trafficking Database in March.
goes 
beyond 
The 
IAEA’s  work 
nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  nuclear  energy.  The  Agency 
makes important contributions to tackling fundamental 
global problems such as food security, water and energy 
shortages, and climate change, as well as in the area of 
human health. Member States must continue to support 
the  IAEA’s  role  in  promoting  the  peaceful  application 
of  nuclear  science  and  technology,  such  as  for  use  in 
cancer treatment in developing countries.
Singapore recently completed its term as a member 
of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors.  We  would  like  to 
reiterate  our  continued  support  for  the  Agency’s  vital 
role  and  tasks.  Over  the  past  decade,  Singapore  has 
hosted  23  scientific  visits,  92  fellowship  attachments 
and  25  regional  training  events  with  the  IAEA.  More 
recently,  in  June  this  year  we  hosted  the  Asia-Europe 
Meeting seminar on nuclear safety, with a specific focus 
on emergency preparedness and response, which is one 
of the key areas of focus in the Action Plan on Nuclear 
Safety.  As  part  of  our  continued  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA, Singapore will jointly host a regional workshop 
on notification, reporting and requesting assistance in 
December. In addition, we will continue to support the 
IAEA  in  promoting  capacity-building,  in  particular 
among developing countries, through various technical 
assistance and cooperation projects.
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  Once 
again,  the  past  year  has  been  very  important  for  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  The 
challenges  facing  the  IAEA  are  no  less  important. 
Switzerland would like to underline three.
the  debate  surrounding 
First,  Switzerland  welcomes  the  fact  that,  unlike 
last year, the IAEA General Conference in September 
adopted its traditional resolution on safeguards without 
opposition.  However, 
the 
adoption  of  the  resolution  highlighted  the  concerns 
of  some  member  States  as  to  the  direction  taken 
by  the  secretariat  on  the  conceptual  development 
of  safeguards,  namely, 
the  “State-level  concept”. 
Switzerland  fully  supports  efforts  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  safeguards.  In  this  regard,  we  believe 
that  increased  transparency  in  the  participation  not 
only  of  the  secretariat  regarding  the  progress  of  its 
work,  but  also  of  the  member  States  with  respect  to 
12 
12-57291
their  real  concerns,  could  contribute  to  overcoming 
these difficulties.
Secondly, Switzerland welcomes the decision of the 
Second  Extraordinary  Meeting  of  Contracting  Parties 
to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety,  held  in  August 
in Vienna, to establish a working group to address the 
strengthening of the Convention.
in 
Switzerland  will  actively  participate 
that 
working  group  and  in  the  ministerial  conference  on 
nuclear  safety  to  be  held  in  December  in  Fukushima. 
Switzerland is indeed convinced that a credible global 
nuclear  safety  regime  requires  the  firm  commitment 
of States to conducting periodical peer reviews and to 
addressing safety issues in a fully transparent manner.
Finally,  Switzerland  welcomes  the  decision  of  the 
IAEA  to  organize  a  conference  on  nuclear  security 
in  Vienna  in  July  2013.  This  decision  will  allow  us 
to  continue,  in  a  more  inclusive  way,    the  discussions 
already  initiated  during  the  three  most  recent  nuclear 
security summits. 
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk 
(Ukraine):  The  Chernobyl 
nuclear power plant accident in 1986 triggered not only 
the  revision  of  international  nuclear  safety  standards, 
but the creation of numerous international instruments 
to  ensure  both  the  highest  level  of  nuclear,  nuclear 
waste  and  radiation  safety  worldwide  and  a  relevant 
system  of  emergency  preparedness  and  response. 
In  2011,  those  instruments  were  put  to  the  test  in 
response to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant 
accident.  We  believe  that,  given  its  unique  expertise, 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  has 
a leading role to play in any nuclear-related accident or 
emergency,  and  that  its  on-site  involvement  is  vital  in 
addressing situations such as that at Fukushima.
While  responsibility  for  nuclear  safety  rests  with 
each  member  State,  we  believe  that  the  IAEA  safety 
fundamentals  and  requirements  should  constitute  a 
minimum obligatory basis for States that have advanced 
civil nuclear programmes. 
We  believe 
that  activities  under  both 
the 
Convention on Nuclear Safety and the Joint Convention 
on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management enhance the 
safety of nuclear energy uses worldwide. We call upon 
all  countries  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  join  these 
important  instruments.  We  consider  that  participation 
in  those  conventions  is  in  the  best  interest  of  any 
A/67/PV.30
country  that  has  or  is  planning  its  own  nuclear  power 
programme.  The  existing  international  treaty  basis 
concerning  nuclear  safety  and  the  reaction  to  nuclear 
accidents  requires  further  improvement.  The  relevant 
work has already started in Vienna, and we believe that 
positive results could be achieved.
Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
our  gratitude  to  those  countries  and  international 
organizations that continue to provide us with support 
and  assistance  in  overcoming  the  consequences  of  the 
Chernobyl  accident.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that,  in 
April 2012, we reached an important milestone — the 
start of work on assembling the new safe confinement 
construction over the destroyed unit 4 of the Chernobyl 
nuclear  power  plant.  This  work,  to  be  completed  in 
2015,  will  pave  the  way  for  further  transformation  of 
the shelter object into an ecologically safe system.
Nuclear  security  is  an  essential  programme  of  the 
Agency. Ukraine commends the IAEA for its activities 
aimed  at  assisting  States  in  preventing  and  combating 
nuclear  terrorism.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
important role of the Agency in fostering international 
cooperation  on  nuclear  security,  in  establishing  a 
comprehensive set of nuclear security guidelines, and in 
assisting member States, upon their request, to enhance 
their nuclear security.
Ukraine  reaffirms  its  view  that  the  responsibility 
for nuclear security rests with each individual State. All 
States  have  the  responsibility  to  establish  appropriate 
systems of accounting and control to take the necessary 
measures  to  prevent,  detect  and  respond  to  malicious 
acts  involving  nuclear  material.  Ukraine  supports  the 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  Nuclear  Security  Plan 
for  2010-2013. We  acknowledge  the  progress  achieved 
by  the  Agency  in  improving  control  over  radioactive 
sources.
Providing  a  contribution  to  the  success  of  both 
the  Washington,  D.  C.,  and  Seoul  Nuclear  Security 
Summits, Ukraine announced and implemented in full 
its  decision  to  get  rid  of  all  national  stocks  of  highly 
enriched uranium. The meaning of our voluntary step is 
crystal clear. Ukraine remains a consistent, predictable 
and  reliable  member  of  the  international  community 
and makes an active contribution to combating nuclear 
terrorism,  focusing  its  efforts  on  strengthening  the 
physical protection of nuclear materials. In this regard, 
we  would  like  to  recall  that,  during  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  delegations  of 
Ukraine, Mexico and Chile jointly declared themselves 
12-57291
13
A/67/PV.30
to  be  countries  that  have  voluntarily  exerted  efforts 
to  minimize  the  use  of  highly  enriched  uranium.  We 
call  upon  other  Member  States  to  follow  our  example 
and to take a practical step in support of international 
non-proliferation efforts.
key  to  effectiveness  is  to  meet  the  needs  of  member 
States.  In  order  to  maximize  the  socioeconomic 
impact  of  technical  cooperation  projects,  it  is  crucial 
that the IAEA further develop partnerships with other 
international organizations where appropriate.
Ukraine  reaffirms  the  Agency’s  role  in  verifying 
and ensuring compliance by States with their safeguards 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. Ukraine reiterates the paramount 
importance of IAEA safeguards in providing effective 
control  over  sensitive  materials  and  activities.  The 
Agency’s  system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental 
component  of  the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  Measures  contained  in  the  Model  Additional 
Protocol  are  an  integral  part  of  this  system.  The 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement,  together  with 
the  Additional  Protocol,  currently  constitute  the  best 
verification standard. 
We  would  like  to  say  that  we  strictly  fulfil  our 
obligations  under  our  Safeguards  Agreement  and  the 
Additional  Protocol.  Since  January  2006,  Ukraine 
has  had  a  comprehensive  Safeguards  Agreement  and 
Additional Protocol in force. In 2010, Ukraine received 
positive  broad  conclusions  from  the  IAEA  regarding 
our  nuclear  activities.  We  continue  to  work  with  the 
Agency  to  establish  the  necessary  conditions  for  the 
effective application of IAEA integrated safeguards in 
Ukraine.
In  2011  and  2012,  the  Agency  continued  to  make 
significant  contributions 
to  global  development 
objectives.  We  commend  the  Agency  for  its  efforts, 
and call upon the IAEA and member States to increase 
further  the  contribution  of  nuclear  technology  to 
health and economic development, and to promote the 
dissemination of knowledge on the peaceful application 
of nuclear technologies among States.
Ukraine  has  always  been  a  strong  supporter  of 
the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  which 
constitutes  an  important  statutory  function  of  the 
Agency.  Ukraine  considers  the  implementation  of 
the  Programme  to  be  the  cornerstone  of  international 
cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We 
acknowledge  the  work  done  by  the  IAEA  in  planning 
and implementing technical cooperation activities that 
ref lect  the  needs  of  different  countries  and  regions. 
We  believe  it  is  important  to  ensure  fair  access  to 
technical  cooperation  funds  and 
the  predictable 
funding  of  technical  cooperation  programmes.  The 
We  recognize  the  importance  of  the  Agency’s 
research activities regarding nuclear energy, particularly 
in  the  fields  of  safety,  waste  management,  radiation 
protection,  innovative  reactor  technologies  and  fuel 
cycles.  Ukraine  will  continue  to  participate  actively 
in  the  International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear 
Reactors and Fuel Cycles. Maintaining competence and 
know-how  across  the  nuclear  sector  is  fundamental  to 
these activities.
In conclusion, we would like to join other delegations 
in welcoming the IAEA report to the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session  (see  A/67/152),  and  to 
express our appreciation for the work of the Agency. 
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  Cognizant  of  the 
crucial role played by the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  as  the  central  multilateral  forum  for 
the  promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
the  Philippines  welcomes  the  report  of  the  IAEA 
(see  A/67/152)  and  lends  its  full  support  to  achieving 
the Agency’s goals and objectives.
The  IAEA  and  its  important  role  took  centre 
stage  last  year  amid  concerns  on  nuclear  safety  in  the 
aftermath of the Fukushima accident. More importantly, 
the nuclear accident provided opportunities for member 
States  to  consider  ways  to  strengthen  the  Agency’s 
work  in  nuclear  safety.  The  Philippines  welcomes  the 
significant progress achieved in the implementation of 
the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety, and lauds the 
combined efforts of the secretariat and member States 
in pursuing concrete actions. These include conducting 
stress  tests  of  nuclear  power  plants,  carrying  out 
capacity-building activities, and enhancing emergency 
preparedness response measures.
For  our  part,  the  Philippines  is  working  with  the 
IAEA secretariat in looking at the possibility of tapping 
our  former  nuclear  power  plant  in  Bataan,  which  we 
closed in 1986, to serve as a regional and international 
training facility on nuclear power plants.
The Philippines also welcomes the important work 
done  by  the  Inter-Agency  Committee  on  Radiological 
and  Nuclear  Emergencies  this  past  year.  We  reaffirm 
our commitment to working with the IAEA to facilitate 
14 
12-57291
improvements in nuclear and radiological incident and 
emergency preparedness and response systems.
Following the Fukushima accident, the Philippines 
conducted  environmental  radioactivity  monitoring  in 
nine  provinces  and  shared  the  data  collected  with  the 
United  Nations  Scientific  Committee  on  the  Effects 
of  Atomic  Radiation.  The  Philippines  continues 
these  monitoring  activities 
the  regional 
technical cooperation project on the assessment of the 
environmental impact of the Fukushima accident in the 
Asia-Pacific region.
through 
The  Philippines  also  welcomes 
the  regional 
initiative  within  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN)  to  establish  the  ASEAN  Network 
of  Regulatory  Bodies  on  Atomic  Energy,  which  will 
serve  as  a  forum  for  the  exchange  of  information  on 
best  practices  among  the  nuclear  regulatory  bodies  of 
ASEAN member States. The Network is also expected 
to enhance cooperation and develop national capacities 
in nuclear safety, security and safeguards.
Despite the Fukushima accident, countries keen to 
use nuclear power as a safe and clean source of energy 
have  turned  to  the  IAEA  for  technical  assistance  in 
the development or expansion of their national nuclear 
power  programmes.  In  August,  the  Agency  provided 
technical  assistance  to  the  Philippines  in  organizing 
a  national  workshop  on  the  evaluation  of  alternative 
energy  strategies  and  establishing  a  national  position 
on  nuclear  power.  This  workshop  and  future  related 
activities will aid the Philippine Government in crafting 
its position on nuclear power.
The  Philippines  believes  that  the  IAEA  continues 
to  play  an  important  role  in  helping  countries  achieve 
their  Millennium  Development  Goals  through  its 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  and  its  various 
activities  in  nuclear  applications.  The  Philippines 
especially  welcomes  the  Director  General’s  focus  this 
year on nuclear applications related to food, which is of 
particular importance to my country, with its growing 
population.  In  June,  the  Philippines  hosted  the  IAEA 
regional  meeting  on  supporting  climate-proof  rice 
production systems on the basis of nuclear applications. 
This  project  not  only  addresses  the  impact  of  climate 
change on rice production, but provides an opportunity 
for scientific exchanges as well.
In  the  field  of  health,  the  Philippines  continues 
to  address  the  health  problems  caused  by  dengue  and 
malaria.  In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  work  of  the 
A/67/PV.30
Insect Pest Control Laboratory of the Joint IAEA/Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in 
Seibersdorf,  Austria,  on  the  development  of  a  sterile 
insect 
technique  package  for  disease-transmitting 
mosquitoes. The Philippines is open to working closely 
with the Seibersdorf Laboratory in the future to further 
its work.
In  the  area  of  nuclear  medicine,  the  IAEA’s 
assistance  allowed  the  Philippines  to  establish  a 
technetium-99 generator facility, which makes nuclear 
procedures  using 
technetium-99  now  affordable 
to  the  public.  Through  another  regional  technical 
cooperation  project,  the  Philippines  looks  forward  to 
the  establishment  of  a  medical  cyclotron  facility  that 
will  supply  affordable  positron  emission  tomography 
radiopharmaceuticals to local hospitals.
On  water  resources  assessment  and  management, 
the  Philippines  undertakes  activities 
to  develop 
sustainable  and  socially  responsible  water  resource 
management plans under the IAEA Water Availability 
Enhancement  Project.  We  encourage  the  Agency  to 
remain involved in this area in order to assist member 
States  in  strengthening  their  national  capacities  to 
conduct comprehensive water resource assessments.
The  Philippines  reaffirms 
importance  of 
strengthening  the  Agency’s  activities  in  addressing 
the  threats  posed  by  nuclear  terrorism  and  the  illicit 
trafficking of nuclear and radioactive material.
the 
Under  the  Philippines’  national  nuclear  security 
plan,  we  commit  to  securing  nuclear  and  radioactive 
materials used for peaceful purposes. We also commit 
to  preventing  the  illicit  trafficking  of  such  materials. 
The  Philippines  will  update  this  plan  in  coordination 
with the IAEA.
In  January  2012, 
the  Philippines  hosted 
the 
third  review  meeting  of  the  Radiological  Security 
Partnership,  which  looked  at  the  developments  and 
challenges in subscribing to and implementing nuclear 
guidance documents in nuclear and radioactive security.
In  partnership  with  the  IAEA,  we  will  host  in 
February  2013  the  International  Forum  on  Effective 
Border  Controls:  Global  Status,  which  will  develop 
recommendations 
strengthen  border  controls 
in  combating  the  illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear  and 
radioactive materials.
to 
With 
the  continuing  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons,  we  underscore  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
12-57291
15
A/67/PV.30
Agency’s nuclear verification capabilities and establish 
confidence in the peaceful nature of nuclear activities.
Finally,  the  Philippines  shares  the  vision  of  a 
world  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  strongly  supports 
the  establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  as  a 
way  to  contribute  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We  remain  hopeful  of  the  convening  of  the  2012 
conference on the Middle East, as laid out in the Final 
Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.I))  before  the  end 
of the year.
Mr.  Diallo (Senegal) (spoke in French): I am very 
happy  to  see  you,  Vice-President  Gaspar  Martins, 
presiding  over  this  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  wish  you  every 
success  in  your  high-level  work  in  the  Assembly’s 
Bureau.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my  delegation’s 
thanks  to  the  Secretariat  for  the  excellent  analysis 
provided  in  the  annual  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for 2011 (see A/67/152). 
The  issue  of  nuclear  safety  is  once  again  at  the 
heart of our concerns. Indeed, although nuclear energy 
is indispensable to finding new solutions for our needs 
through  its  applications  in  health,  agriculture,  the 
production of electricity and many other areas, its use 
presents  real  security  and  safety  risks.  That  is  why 
the  IAEA  verification  programme  remains  crucial  to 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  bring 
about a world free of nuclear weapons, as it limits the 
proliferation of such weapons. 
should 
The  Agency 
therefore  continue, 
in 
cooperation  with  concerned  States,  to  play  its  role  in 
following  up  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  other  treaties,  such  as  those 
establishing  nuclear-weapon-free 
Indeed, 
nuclear power cannot be developed unless the optimal 
conditions for safety and security are in place. Therefore, 
all  necessary  measures  must  be  adopted  in  order  to 
strengthen  these  elements.  I  reaffirm  my  country’s 
commitment  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  in 
full transparency and in a safe and sustainable manner.
zones. 
With  regard  to  technical  cooperation,  we  are 
reassured  by  the  fact  that  the  IAEA  continues  to 
fulfil  its  mandate  “to  accelerate  and  enlarge  the 
contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace,  health  and 
prosperity throughout the world”. Indeed, the peaceful 
applications  of  nuclear  energy  offer  solutions  to  a 
series  of  socioeconomic  and  development  issues  that 
are  essential  to  meeting  the  needs  of  humankind  and 
thus to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
As  underlined  in  the  report,  technical  cooperation 
projects  on 
issues  as  varied  as  nuclear-powered 
electricity,  knowledge  management,  human  health, 
the improvement of water management, more accurate 
determination  of  the  sources  of  pollution  and  nuclear 
safety  or  security  enable  Member  States  to  find 
solutions to serious development problems. 
Senegal 
therefore  recognizes  and  values 
the 
scientific  and  technical  cooperation  that  it  has  with 
the  IAEA.  This  rich  and  varied  cooperation  covers 
many  areas.  First,  it  includes  support  for  research  in 
the  area  of  water  resource  management,  agricultural 
productivity 
farming 
development, protection from radiation and research on 
solutions to malnutrition.
improvement, 
livestock 
Second is the acquisition of a gamma camera, which 
represents major progress in the treatment of diabetes, 
thyroid  disease  and  cancer.  Third  is  support  for  the 
fight to eliminate the tsetse f ly along the Atlantic coast, 
north  of  Dakar.  Fourth  is  cooperation  with  the  IAEA, 
which  has  raised  research  facilities  in  Senegal  to  the 
status of world-class scientific centres. We are grateful 
for  the  support  provided  by  the  United  States  State 
Department  since  2010  in  the  fight  against  the  tsetse 
f ly  in  West  Africa.  Further  examples  of  cooperation 
are  management  training,  technology  transfer  and 
exchanges  of  experts  in  the  context  of  the  various 
projects on which Senegal is working with the Agency. 
Fifth is energy production and planning and research to 
improve nutrition for women. 
Strengthened by such fruitful experience, Senegal 
will spare no effort to expand its excellent cooperation 
with  the  IAEA,  through  an  aggressive  policy  to 
promote  socioeconomic  development  through  nuclear 
science  and  technology.  My  delegation  therefore  calls 
for  increased  support  for  the  Agency  in  implementing 
its mandate.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Amano,  Director  General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
for  his  circulated  statement  on  the  annual  report  of 
the Agency (see A/67/152), for the period 1 January to 
31  December  2011.  Malaysia  also  wishes  to  commend 
the  Director  General  for  his  commitment  to,  and 
stewardship of, the IAEA.
16 
12-57291
At  this  juncture,  Malaysia  wishes  to  welcome 
the  Republic  of  Fiji,  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  and 
the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  as  new  States 
members of the Agency. The latest addition has resulted 
in  a  total  of  155  countries  becoming  States  members 
of  the  Agency.  That  in  turn  has  further  strengthened 
and  universalized  the  membership  of  the  Agency, 
and  has  helped  it  to  carry  out  its  role  and  mandate  in 
assisting  in  the  development  and  practical  application 
of atomic energy for peaceful uses, technology transfer 
to developing countries, and promoting nuclear safety, 
verification  and  security.  It  is  indeed  pleasing  to  note 
that,  despite  its  limited  resources,  not  only  has  the 
Agency managed to successfully carry out its work, but 
in fact its work has expanded in recent years.
As with other developing countries, Malaysia fully 
supports the peaceful use by member States of nuclear 
power as a source of energy. Currently, the Government 
of  Malaysia  is  undertaking  an  in-depth  study  on 
developing a nuclear power programme in the country, 
including on its legal and regulatory frameworks. The 
overarching objective of the study is to ensure that the 
highest  standards  of  nuclear  safety  and  security  are 
observed at all times.
Malaysia has always attached the utmost importance 
to  nuclear  safety.  The  Fukushima  Daiichi  incident 
has  therefore  weighed  heavily  on  Malaysia’s  mind  as 
it  embarks  on  a  nuclear  power  programme.  There  are 
certainly valuable lessons to be learned. In that regard, 
Malaysia welcomes the formulation and implementation 
of the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety, following 
the unprecedented Fukushima accident.
the 
Malaysia  also  welcomes 
report  entitled 
“Highlights  of  the  Lessons  Learned  from  the  IAEA 
Integrated  Regulatory  Review  Service  in  2006-2010”, 
which was presented at the third Workshop on Lessons 
Learned from Integrated Regulatory Review Missions 
in  October  2011.  The  report  addresses  areas  that  need 
improvement,  such  as  the  governmental,  legal  and 
regulatory frameworks, certain areas of core regulatory 
practices,  and  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
missions themselves. It also provides recommendations 
on  how  countries  can  meet  the  Agency’s  safety 
requirements 
infrastructures. 
Malaysia  wishes  to  extend  our  support  in  enhancing 
nuclear safety, and looks forward to participating in the 
Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety, to be held in 
Fukushima later this year.
for  national  safety 
A/67/PV.30
For  our  part  and  in  response  to  the  Agency’s 
request, Malaysia has hosted a number of events related 
to nuclear radiation, transport and waste safety. In the 
light  of  the  IAEA’s  newly  revised  International  Basic 
Safety Standards, Malaysia hosted a regional workshop 
on  the  IAEA  General  Safety  Requirements  in  April 
2012. We stand ready to assist in hosting similar events 
in the future.
and 
Malaysia  has  consistently  considered  the  issue 
of  nuclear  security  to  be  an  inseparable  component 
of  nuclear  energy.  To  that  end,  we  have  implemented 
various 
conventions, 
legal  mechanisms 
the  Convention  on  Physical  Protection 
including 
of  Nuclear  Material  and 
the 
International  Convention  for 
the  Suppression  of 
Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism,  the  Additional  Protocol 
to  the  IAEA  Safeguards  Agreement,  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and  the 
various IAEA codes of conduct.
its  2005  Protocol, 
Malaysia  appreciates  the  opportunity  to  share  its 
knowledge on nuclear security, as well as its expertise, 
with  a  few  selected  member  States.  In  that  regard, 
Malaysia will host a regional workshop on radioactive 
source security for industrial radiography with various 
donor member States by the end of 2012. Malaysia also 
looks forward to discussing the possibility of Malaysia 
being  recognized  as  a  centre  of  excellence  for  nuclear 
security training in the region and beyond.
Malaysia continues to stress the importance of the 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  in  promoting  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technology.  The  extension  of 
the  Programme  should  obviously  be  based  upon  the 
needs  and  requests  of  member  States.  We  believe  that 
the  programme  should  take  into  account  the  evolving 
requirements of member States, as well as the issue of 
funding. At the most recent meeting of the Preparatory 
Committee for the Review Conference of the Parties to 
the  NPT,  some  States  parties  called  for  the  Technical 
Cooperation Programme to be supported by the regular 
budget instead of relying on the Technical Cooperation 
Fund.  My  delegation  joins  in  that  call,  and  we  look 
forward to further discussions on the matter under the 
working  group  for  financing  the  Agency’s  activities. 
Malaysia  has  indeed  benefited  from  the  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  At  the  same  time,  it  has 
also  contributed  in-kind  to  the  Programme,  as  well 
as  provided  training  and  sharing  expertise  with  other 
member States.
12-57291
17
A/67/PV.30
As for the new project cycle for the period 2013-2014, 
my delegation hopes to work closely with the Agency to 
ensure  that  the  projects  under  the  Programme  will  be 
adequately funded. My delegation also appreciates the 
confidence  that  the  Agency  has  placed  in  Malaysia’s 
continuing to host the Post-Graduate Education Course 
in Radiation Protection, which we would execute to the 
best of our abilities.
Malaysia  accords  high  importance  to  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear science and technology in agricultural, 
biotechnology,  industrial,  environmental  and  medical 
applications. In that context, Malaysia has always believed 
that research, development and knowledge-sharing are 
key  to  the  successful  and  sustainable  development  of 
nuclear  technology  by  any  member  State.  Therefore, 
Malaysia  attaches  great  importance  to  research  and 
development  activities  within 
the  framework  of 
coordinated research activities, which are an important 
avenue  for  multilateral  cooperation  and  the  sharing  of 
knowledge  among  scientists  and  engineers  across  the 
globe.
On  the  issue  of  cancer  treatment  and  research, 
Malaysia is committed to further upgrading its cancer 
detection, monitoring and treatment systems. Malaysia 
recognizes  and  appreciates  the  role  of  the  IAEA  on 
nuclear techniques in that regard. We therefore decided 
to  join  the  World  Health  Organization-IAEA  Joint 
Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy by requesting 
an  Integrated  Mission  for  Programme  of  Action  for 
Cancer  Therapy  to  Malaysia.  We  wish  to  thank  the 
Agency for acceding to our request.
As a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  Malaysia  will  continue  to  play 
a  constructive  role  in  both  bilateral  and  multilateral 
cooperative  arrangements  in  ensuring  the  security  of 
nuclear  materials.  Malaysia  commends  the  consensus 
reached in the Final Document of the 2010 NPT Review 
Conference (see NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol.I)).
We  believe  that  efforts  to  convene  a  conference 
in 2012 on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear 
weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
in  the  Middle  East  should  be  supported  by  all.  Such  a 
conference would give momentum to the establishment 
of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  in  the  Middle 
East,  which  would  undoubtedly  contribute  to  greater 
peace  and  security  in  the  region.  Malaysia  welcomes 
the  appointment  of  Mr.  Jaako  Laajava  of  Finland  as 
facilitator  for  the  conference  and  wishes  him  success 
in this regard.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm 
Malaysia’s commitment to continuing its long-standing 
cooperation  with  the  work  of  the  Agency  in  fulfilling 
its  mandate.  Malaysia  is  confident  that  the  Agency 
could play a greater role in responding to all the needs 
of  its  member  States  in  the  future  if  it  were  provided 
with  greater  resources.  Nevertheless,  we  wish  to  once 
again express our appreciation to the Director General 
of the IAEA, as well as to the IAEA secretariat, for the 
significant and valuable work that they have carried out 
thus far. In this regard, Malaysia is pleased to sponsor 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (A/67/L.3) at the sixty-seventh 
session of the General Assembly.
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  Kazakhstan  wishes 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), on 
the outstanding work of the Agency. The annual report 
(see  A/67/152)  demonstrates  the  shift  in  the  nature  of 
the Agency’s functions from pure verification activities 
to  safety  and  security  measures  for  nuclear  power 
plants, countering potential nuclear terrorism, focusing 
on nuclear applications and technical cooperation for a 
better and safer world.
As  a  member  of  the  Agency,  Kazakhstan  is  proud 
of its record of collaboration in seeking to apply nuclear 
energy,  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
at  the  national  and  Central  Asian  regional  levels.  It 
is  clear  today  more  than  ever  that  it  is  important  to 
bring international legal norms in line with the reality 
of  the  existence  of  de  facto  nuclear-weapon  States, 
necessitating  compliance  with  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) by States 
parties. This is to ensure improved global mechanisms 
for  managing  processes  in  the  development  of  nuclear 
power.  We  therefore  propose  conducting,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  IAEA,  regular  stress  tests  of  nuclear 
plants  and  protection  systems,  as  well  as  rapid  rescue 
responses.
Kazakhstan is a major producer of uranium ore and 
has the fuel fabrication capability to further expand the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy within the framework 
of  IAEA  safeguards.  We  collaborate  with  the  Russian 
Federation 
its  uranium  available  for 
enrichment  at  the  national  centre  in  Angarsk,  Siberia, 
for use in nuclear power reactors. We are also working 
in  making 
18 
12-57291
on the Kurchatov Nuclear Technologies Park, which is 
under IAEA surveillance.
global focal point for nuclear and radiological safety or 
security-related incidents.
A/67/PV.30
We  support  the  IAEA  initiative  to  develop  a  new 
framework  for  nuclear  energy  based  on  multilateral 
approaches to the nuclear fuel cycle that are non-political 
and  non-discriminatory.  These  should  be  available  to 
all  safeguards-complying  member  States,  so  that  no 
State will need to give up its rights under the NPT.
Kazakhstan has officially confirmed in writing to 
the Agency its readiness to host an IAEA nuclear fuel 
bank on two of its sites for countries unable to acquire 
a nuclear fuel supply on the market. As soon as the site 
has  been  determined,  steps  will  be  taken  to  establish 
the  bank.  The  national  atomic  energy  company, 
Kazatomprom, is in the process of creating a vertically 
integrated  establishment  with  a  complete  nuclear  fuel 
cycle meeting IAEA standards.
The  Central  Asian  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  is 
another contribution of our efforts towards a world free 
from  nuclear  weapons,  to  reduce  the  risk  of  nuclear 
terrorism  and  the  smuggling  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
radioactive materials in the region, as well as to address 
environmental concerns regarding ecological radiation. 
Kazakhstan  supports  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear- 
weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  as  a  solution  for 
peace in that region. We will work collaboratively with 
the  Facilitator  and  other  Member  States  towards  that 
goal.
for 
We  are  consistently  implementing  the  International 
Convention 
the  Suppression  of  Acts  of 
Nuclear  Terrorism,  as  well  as  Security  Council 
resolution  1540 
to  strengthen  measures 
to  combat  illegal  trafficking  of  nuclear  and  other 
materials. As a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group 
and the Zangger Committee, Kazakhstan maintains the 
strictest  controls  over  its  equipment  and  installations 
that enrich uranium and reprocess spent nuclear fuel.
(2004), 
Last year, Kazakhstan ratified and acceded to four 
major nuclear security conventions, and is reviewing a 
draft law to accede to the Vienna Convention on Civil 
Liability for Nuclear Damage. We are decommissioning 
the BN-350 nuclear reactor and, with the support of the 
United  States  Department  of  Energy,  implementing  a 
project to convert the second research reactor to produce 
radioisotopes from low-enriched uranium. My country 
welcomes the proposal to strengthen the infrastructure 
of  the  IAEA  Incident  and  Emergency  Centre  as  the 
Despite  being  a  key  and  responsible  member 
of  IAEA,  Kazakhstan  is  denied  the  opportunity  to 
participate  in  the  work  of  elective  bodies  due  to  the 
existing rules of procedure. Kazakhstan fully supports 
the early entry into force of the amendments to article 
VI of the IAEA statute, and hopes that a solution will 
be found.
Kazakhstan’s  technical  cooperation  with  IAEA 
from 2010 to 2015 includes nuclear education, medicine, 
agriculture,  research  reactor  safety,  and  radioisotope 
and  radiation  applications  for  collective  global  human 
security. My country contributes regularly to the IAEA 
budget,  as  well  as  to  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund, 
and stands ready to fulfil its financial obligations.
We  express  our  gratitude  to  IAEA  for  its  support 
to  the  International  Day  against  Nuclear  Tests,  and  in 
the ongoing activities of the Nuclear Discussion Forum, 
initiated  jointly  by  Kazakhstan  and  the  EastWest 
Institute.
To  conclude,  we  fully  support  the  mandate  of  the 
IAEA, and look forward to another cycle of even more 
productive collaboration on current and future issues in 
nuclear technology.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I would like 
at the outset to thank the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  and  its  Director  General,  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  for  their  valuable  work  over  the  past  year,  as 
ref lected  in  the  Agency’s  report  (see  A/67/152).  Egypt 
is eager to join the list of sponsors of the annual draft 
resolution  on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (A/67/L.3).
I  would  like  first  to  underline  the  contribution  of 
nuclear  technology  to  electric  power  generation.  This 
demonstrates  in  turn  our  continued  interest  in  the 
exercise  of  the  inalienable  right  to  the  development, 
production  and  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
as  enshrined  in  article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
For  almost  half  a  century,  Egypt  has  devoted 
attention to nuclear energy and its peaceful applications. 
Following  Egypt’s  transition  to  a  new  democratic  era 
resulting  from  the  revolution  of  25  January  2011,  we 
will  pursue  the  implementation  of  Egypt’s  peaceful 
nuclear  programme  by  establishing  our  first  nuclear 
plant  for  power  generation.  Egypt  looks  forward  to 
12-57291
19
A/67/PV.30
continued  close  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in  that 
area,  given  the  Agency’s  growing  role  in  support  of 
sustainable development.
In commenting on the IAEA’s report on its activities 
in 2012, I would like to highlight the following points. 
First,  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation  activities 
are  a  priority  for  developing  countries  in  terms  of 
employing nuclear applications, including radioisotope, 
radiation and other technologies, in the areas of health, 
agriculture,  food  and  water  resources  in  order  to 
promote progress towards development. Egypt calls for 
increased  funding  for  technical  cooperation  activities, 
as well as equitable funding of all of the other activities 
of the IAEA. Technical cooperation is a key component 
of the work of the Agency pursuant to its statute.
Second,  it  is  important  to  enhance  international 
cooperation  in  strengthening  national  capacities  in 
nuclear safety and emergency response to radiological 
and nuclear accidents. That would help to ensure easy 
access  to  safety  information  and  equitable  transfer  of 
related technology. My delegation takes this opportunity 
to  emphasize  that  the  Agency  should  intensify  efforts 
to assist member States in emergency preparedness and 
response to nuclear accidents by promoting technology 
transfer  and  capacity-building  activities,  including 
education and training in the field of crisis management.
Third,  we  stress  that  any  rules  or  guidelines  on 
nuclear  security  and  safety  must  be  developed  and 
negotiated  within  a  multilateral  framework.  Measures 
and initiatives aimed at strengthening nuclear security 
and  safety  should  not  be  used  as  an  excuse  to  restrict 
the inalienable right of developing countries to develop 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  in  accordance 
with the statute of the Agency.
Fourth,  the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  verification  and 
nuclear non-proliferation is closely related to its role in 
promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in support 
of  States’  development  programmes  that  fulfil  their 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the statute of the IAEA.
Fifth,  all  countries  of  the  Middle  East  except 
Israel have joined the IAEA comprehensive safeguards 
system.  Israel  remains  the  only  country  in  the  region 
with ambiguous nuclear activities that are not subject to 
international  control  and  supervision.  Israel  continues 
to ignore the resolutions of the General Assembly and 
the General Conference of the IAEA urging it to accede 
to the NPT as a non-nuclear-weapon State and to subject 
all  of  its  nuclear  facilities  to  IAEA  comprehensive 
safeguards.  There  is  no  doubt  that  this  situation  has 
increased  the  nuclear  proliferation  risk  in  the  Middle 
East  and  continues  to  prevent  the  achievement  of  the 
goal of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East.
Sixth, Egypt stresses the importance of holding the 
2012 conference on the establishment of a zone free of 
nuclear  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the 
Middle East, as agreed at the 2010 Review Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  NPT.  Egypt  also  emphasizes  the 
need for the conference to adopt a concrete and binding 
outcome  with  a  view  to  achieving  its  objectives,  as 
set  forth  at  the  2010  Review  Conference.  Egypt  looks 
forward to the contribution of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency to the 2012 conference and to receiving 
as  soon  as  possible  the  background  documentation 
that  the  IAEA  has  been  mandated  to  prepare  for 
the  conference.  Egypt  notes  its  appreciation  for  the 
Agency’s  efforts  in  organizing  a  forum  in  November 
2011 on the relevance of the experience gained through 
the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone to the 
Middle East.
Seventh, Egypt stresses that any retraction from the 
commitment to convene the conference on schedule this 
year, in accordance with the Final Document of the 2010 
Review  Conference  (see  NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.  I)), 
will affect the effectiveness and benefit of verification 
activities  in  the  Middle  East.  It  will  also  affect  the 
integrity  of  international  efforts  to  prevent  nuclear 
proliferation  and  the  credibility  of  the  NPT  review 
process.  It  could  even  lead  to  the  failure  of  the  next 
Review Conference in 2015.
including 
those 
concerning 
the  need 
Eighth,  Egypt  reiterates 
to  enable 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  carry 
out  verification  activities  related  to  disarmament 
agreements, 
the 
establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones,  now  and 
in  the  future.  We  look  forward  to  the  Agency’s  active 
role  in  that  domain  in  the  Middle  East,  through  the 
implementation of its five-year Medium-Term Strategy 
for the period 2012-2017. 
In  conclusion,  Egypt  calls  on  all  Member  States 
to support the three pillars of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  —  verification,  nuclear  safety  and 
security, and peaceful uses of nuclear energy — in an 
integrated  manner  in  order  to  contribute  to  fulfilling 
the purposes of the United Nations in the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  and  in  achieving 
sustainable development.
20 
12-57291
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  We  have  carefully  studied  the  report  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  to 
the  General  Assembly  (see  A/67/152).  Russia  highly 
commends the work of the Agency aimed at improving 
and  strengthening  the  global  non-proliferation  regime 
and  at  guaranteeing  the  widespread  and  safe  use  of 
nuclear energy.
The  Agency  is  making  a  noteworthy  contribution 
to  resolving  the  issues  of  a  secure  energy  supply,  the 
fight  against  the  global  effects  of  climate  change, 
and  maintaining  the  health  and  well-being  of  people 
throughout  the  world.  It  is  important  that  the  Agency 
continue  to  formulate  its  efforts  based  on  broader 
international cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy.
In speaking of the Agency’s activities, we cannot fail 
to note the unique nature of its verification mechanism, 
which  enables  the  highly  efficient  tracking  of  States’ 
implementation of their obligations under the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
We  advocate 
improvement  of 
the  Agency’s 
verification capacity, including through the adoption of 
the additional protocol to its comprehensive safeguards 
system as the universally accepted standard for States’ 
their  nuclear  non-proliferation 
implementation  of 
obligations.  An  unbiased  approach 
to  nuclear 
verification  based  on  objective  indicators  is  the  most 
important  element  in  supporting  the  legitimacy  of 
the  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards  system  and  the 
non-proliferation regime in general.
Russia  is  actively  participating  in  the  Agency’s 
activities  as  a  financial  donor,  including  through  its 
voluntary contributions to the International Project on 
Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  and  the 
Nuclear  Security  Fund.  We  wholeheartedly  support 
the efforts of the Agency in technical cooperation and 
the  provision  of  appropriate  assistance  to  developing 
States. 
In  the  context  of  the  large-scale  development  of 
nuclear energy, the Russian Federation attaches priority 
to establishing a new architecture for peaceful nuclear 
cooperation  based  on  multilateral  approaches  to  the 
nuclear fuel cycle; the guaranteed provision of services 
for  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle;  and  resolving  problems  of 
spent  fuel  and  radioactive  waste  management.  On  the 
basis of those priorities, Russia has launched an initiative 
to  develop  a  global  nuclear  energy  infrastructure  and 
A/67/PV.30
create  an  international  network  of  nuclear  fuel  cycle 
centres.
We  note  with  satisfaction  that  while  our  initiative 
has  been  sorely  needed,  it  is  also  truly  capable 
of  resolving  the  tasks  necessary  to  guarantee  the 
unhampered  access  of  all  NPT  States  parties  to  the 
benefits of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, provided 
that they faithfully comply with their non-proliferation 
obligations.
In  practice,  however,  it  has  afforded  States  the 
ability to enjoy the advantages of nuclear energy and to 
guarantee their nuclear fuel needs without introducing 
elements to the nuclear fuel cycle that are expensive and 
unsound from the standpoint of nuclear proliferation. 
In  the  context  of  that  initiative,  together  with 
Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Armenia, we have launched 
on  Russian 
international  uranium 
enrichment  centre,  to  which  we  invite  all  States 
working  to  develop  nuclear  power  in  compliance  with 
their non-proliferation obligations.
territory  an 
Another  important  step  in  establishing  the  global 
nuclear  energy  infrastructure  was  the  creation  in 
Russia  of  a  shared  supply  of  low-enriched  uranium 
administered  by  IAEA.  It  has  already  been  fully 
established, and States members of the Agency that are 
in  compliance  with  their  non-proliferation  obligations 
are eligible to enjoy that resource.
We  are  convinced  that  lessons  must  be  drawn 
from  the  outcome  of  the  accident  at  the  Fukushima 
Daiichi nuclear power plant in order to prevent such a 
recurrence in future. The central role in that endeavour 
must  belong  to  the  Agency  as  the  only  international 
organization with the requisite expertise and authority. 
One  of  the  key  lessons  of  the  Fukushima  accident  is 
that  the  international  community  needs  to  perfect  the 
international  legal  framework  and  the  technological 
and organizational aspects of nuclear safety.
Based on that understanding, Russia has proposed 
important initiatives to fill the existing gaps in relevant 
international legal documents and instruments. In that 
context, we note additions to the Convention on Nuclear 
Safety  and  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification 
of  a  Nuclear  Accident.  Moreover,  Russia  has  made 
proposals  to  improve  the  Agency’s  safety  standards 
and  anticipates  that  these  initiatives  will  enjoy  broad 
support and come to fruition.
12-57291
21
A/67/PV.30
An  extremely  important  task  remains  to  establish 
a  due  level  of  protection  of  all  nuclear  facilities  and 
materials in order to prevent possible perpetration of acts 
of nuclear terrorism by non-State actors. In the interest 
of strengthening nuclear physical security, Russia was 
a  sponsor  of  Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004). 
Together with the United States, in 2006 it introduced 
the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism. The 
Initiative  is  now  supported  by  85  States  and  serves  as 
an effective instrument of cooperation in the sharing of 
extensive  experience  and  practical  measures  aimed  at 
countering the threat of nuclear terrorism.
Russia  has  signed  and  ratified  the  International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear 
Terrorism and the Convention on the Physical Protection 
of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities, as well as its 
amendment. We call on the States that have not yet done 
so to expedite completion of their domestic procedures 
in order to accede to those most important international 
instruments.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Agency  must  play  the 
central role in coordinating States’ efforts to guarantee 
nuclear security. We support the implementation of the 
Agency’s  programme  on  that  issue  for  2010-2013  and 
its proposal to convene an international conference on 
nuclear security issues in 2013.
Russia 
positively 
the 
commends 
practical 
contribution of the Agency to the multilateral quest for 
ways  to  resolve  regional  proliferation  challenges.  We 
commend  the  endeavours  of  the  Agency  in  using  its 
expert  potential  to  ensure  the  sustainable  functioning 
of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. 
We support draft resolution A/67/L.3 on the report of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency. As a sponsor 
of the draft resolution, Russia wholeheartedly endorses 
the work of the Agency in the interest of strengthening 
and ensuring the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
achieving reliable energy supplies.
Mr.  Kellerman  (South  Africa):  First  of  all, 
my  delegation  thanks  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
his  staff  for  the  comprehensive  overview  of  IAEA 
activities contained in the Agency’s annual report (see 
A/67/152).  We  appreciate  the  valuable  contribution  of 
the  Agency  in  supporting  developing  countries’  use 
of  nuclear  science  and  technology  to  address  national 
development needs. 
The  Agency’s  support  in  areas  such  as  food  and 
agriculture, human health, water resource management 
and  the  environment  is  essential  to  the  attainment  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Furthermore, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  publication  of  training 
packages for medical physicists in the area of diagnostic 
radiology and nuclear medicine. South Africa continues 
to host fellows and scientific visitors to assist capacity-
building in nuclear medicine.
My country also welcomes the Africa pilot project 
of  the  Virtual  University  and  Regional  Training 
Network for Cancer Control, which entered its second 
year  in  2011.  The  project  is  both  a  vehicle  and  a 
facilitating  mechanism  to  enhance  cancer  control, 
e-learning, education and training in Africa, and South 
Africa  looks  forward  to  participating  in  the  initiative, 
which will pave the way for subregional cancer control 
workforce training hubs.
Global  security  of  energy  supply  has  become  one 
of  the  key  focus  areas  worldwide,  mainly  because 
of  decreasing  natural  resources,  global  warming, 
climate  change,  pollution  and  rapid  global  growth. 
South  Africa’s  nuclear  energy  policy  is  driven  by 
the  imperative  of  ensuring  the  security  of  its  energy 
supply  and  reducing  its  carbon  footprint,  and  by  the 
beneficiation of our strategic mineral resources for the 
economic development of our country.
In  that  regard,  my  Government  approved  the 
Integrated Resource Plan 2010-2030, which incorporates 
a  significant  expansion  of  nuclear  power  by  the  year 
2030.  The  Cabinet  has  also  established  the  National 
Nuclear  Energy  Executive  Coordination  Committee, 
an  executive  body  comprised  of  ministers  who  have  a 
direct  role  to  play  in  the  nuclear  energy  programme. 
In  preparation  for  its  nuclear  build  programme,  South 
Africa  has  adopted  the  IAEA  milestones  approach, 
which  addresses  many  critical  elements  necessary  for 
successful implementation.
South  Africa  is  working  closely  with  the  Agency, 
and has requested an Integrated Nuclear Infrastructure 
Review  Mission  in  the  country.  In  that  context,  the 
South African Minister of Energy recently announced 
South Africa’s intention to invite the IAEA to conduct 
an external assessment of its readiness and to identify 
any  possible  risks  that  may  need  attention  in  order  to 
ensure a successful nuclear build programme.
Regarding  nuclear  safety,  South  Africa  is  pleased 
to  note  that  the  level  of  nuclear  safety  among  the 
22 
12-57291
435 nuclear power plants in operation around the world 
remains high. My delegation takes note of the activities 
undertaken by the Agency to increase nuclear safety as 
detailed  in  the  Director  General’s  report  on  the  IAEA 
Action Plan on Nuclear Safety.
In  conclusion,  South  Africa  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme. We welcome the support rendered through 
a  range  of  regional  and  national  projects  to  address 
socioeconomic  development  needs  of  Member  States, 
especially  African  countries.  In  that  regard,  we  also 
value  the  continuous  support  of  the  Agency  through 
the  activities  of  the  African  Regional  Cooperative 
Agreement  for  Research,  Development  and  Training 
related to Nuclear Science and Technology — in Africa 
and in the region. 
is  among 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Nuclear 
science 
the  greatest  achievements  of 
humankind  and  should  therefore  be  used  to  serve  its 
well-being. Given the numerous peaceful applications of 
nuclear technology as a cost-effective, environmentally 
friendly  and  climatically  benign  source  of  energy,  it 
has  gained  a  prominent  position  in  the  economic  life 
and advancement of nations. Without a doubt, demand 
for  the  development  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  and 
technology will continue to grow in future.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  considers 
the 
inalienable  right  to  develop  research,  production  and 
uses  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  without 
discrimination  —  including  the  right  of  every  State 
party  to  develop  for  peaceful  purposes  a  full  national 
nuclear  fuel  cycle  —  to  be  the  very  foundation  and 
one  of  the  most  important  pillars  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  While 
attaching great importance to the full, effective, balanced, 
simultaneous,  non-selective  and  non-discriminatory 
implementation  of  all  provisions  of  the  NPT,  we 
strongly stress that the exercise of the inalienable right 
to  pursue  nuclear  science,  energy  and  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes,  which  is  an  inherent  part  of  the 
sovereignty  of  States  parties,  can  never  be  suspended 
or restricted by any organ, under any circumstances or 
pretexts whatsoever.
According to article IV of the NPT, not only shall 
nothing  in  the  Treaty  be  interpreted  as  affecting  that 
inalienable  right,  but  all  parties  have  a  firm  legal 
obligation 
A/67/PV.30
“to facilitate, and have the right to participate in, the 
fullest  possible  exchange  of  equipment,  materials 
and scientific and technological information for the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy”. 
in 
Furthermore, 
the 
importance of article III of the NPT, according to which 
even the required safeguards
that  context,  we  underline 
“shall  be  implemented  in  a  manner  designed 
to  comply  with  article  IV  of  this  Treaty,  and  to 
avoid  hampering  the  economic  or  technological 
development  of 
international 
cooperation 
the  field  of  peaceful  nuclear 
activities,  including  the  international  exchange  of 
nuclear material and equipment for the processing, 
use  or  production  of  nuclear  material  for  peaceful 
purposes”. 
the  Parties  or 
in 
My  delegation  also  would  like  to  emphasize  that, 
according to articles II and III of the IAEA statute, 
“[t]he Agency shall seek to accelerate and enlarge the 
contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and 
prosperity  throughout  the  world...;  [t]o  encourage 
and  assist  research  on,  and  development  and 
practical application of, atomic energy for peaceful 
uses  throughout  the  world;  and,  if  requested  to 
do  so,  to  act  as  an  intermediary  for  the  purposes 
of  securing  the  performance  of  services  or  the 
supplying of materials, equipment, or facilities by 
one member of the Agency for another...; to perform 
any  operation  or  service  useful  in  research  on,  or 
development  or  practical  application  of,  atomic 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes;  [and  t]o  foster  the 
exchange of scientific and technical information on 
peaceful uses of atomic energy”.
to  assist  member  States  and 
Accordingly,  we  underline  the  Agency’s  primary 
the 
responsibility 
importance  of  its  other  statutory  functions.  In  that 
connection,  we  stress  the  need  for  strict  observance 
by  the  IAEA  of  the  principles  of  impartiality  and 
professionalism; along with the States members of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  “strongly  reject  attempts  by 
any State to politicize the work of the IAEA, including 
its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme”;  and  call  for 
an  end  to  any  interference  in  the  Agency’s  activities, 
especially  its  verification  process,  as  such  acts  could 
jeopardize  the  authority,  efficiency  and  credibility  of 
the IAEA and endanger the credibility of the NPT and 
the inalienable right of its parties to develop research, 
12-57291
23
A/67/PV.30
production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes without discrimination. 
Unfortunately, the application of a discriminatory, 
selective,  highly  restrictive  and  politically  motivated 
approach  to  nuclear  cooperation  by  developed  States 
parties to the NPT, the main suppliers of nuclear high 
technology, has given rise to the impression that being a 
party to the NPT is not a privilege, because rather than 
facilitating  nuclear  cooperation,  it  impedes  it.  In  that 
connection,  it  is  a  source  of  grave  concern  that  those 
who  have  chosen  not  to  accede  to  the  NPT  not  only 
are  not  subject  to  any  pressure  to  do  so,  but  are  also 
encouraged and generously rewarded in different ways. 
A 
is 
living  example 
the  well-documented 
assistance and cooperation provided by certain Western 
countries  —  in  particular,  the  United  States  and  the 
two  nuclear-weapon  States  members  of  the  European 
Union, the United Kingdom and France — to the Israeli 
regime, which, in addition to having an unsafeguarded 
nuclear  programme,  possesses  one  of  the  world’s 
largest  stockpiles  of  nuclear  weapons.  Such  measures, 
of course, run counter to the letter and spirit of the NPT 
and,  accordingly,  are  clear  cases  of  non-compliance 
with  the  explicit  legal  obligations  under  the  Treaty. 
Undoubtedly,  those  policies  severely  undermine  the 
universality,  relevance,  integrity  and  credibility  of 
the  NPT.  We  did  not  see  any  reference  to  that  point 
by  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  in  his  statement 
distributed today. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran, while being extremely 
proud  that  it  is  exercising  its  inalienable  right  to  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy, is also fully committed 
to its legal obligations, and its nuclear activities are and 
have  always  been  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes. 
Despite  all  external  political  pressures  on  the  IAEA, 
it  has  repeatedly  concluded  that  “declared  nuclear 
material in Iran remain[s] in peaceful activities”. In that 
regard,  it  is  worth  noting  that  that  is  exactly  the  same 
conclusion  that  the  IAEA  secretariat  has  come  to  for 
51 States with additional protocols in force, as well as 
for 61 States without additional protocols in force.
Finally, with regard to the so-called alleged studies 
on  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  referred  to  in  the  IAEA 
report,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  they  are  forged 
reports and include graphs that are not credible, which 
is why the Agency is not allowed to make them available 
to the Islamic Republic of Iran. As always, most of that 
information  has  been  provided  by  the  Israeli  regime 
and  its  big  ally.  One  may  easily  conclude  that  such 
information  is  as  credible  as  the  childish  cartoon  that 
was drawn here in this Hall in September by the Zionist 
regime’s Prime Minister.
Mrs.  Cizare  (Ethiopia):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to thank Ambassador Yukiya Amano, Director General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Agency  (see 
A/67/152).  I  also  wish  to  express  our  support  for  the 
draft resolution before us (A/67/L.3).
Ethiopia firmly believes that the work of the IAEA 
in  general,  and  specifically  its  annual  activities  as 
described  in  the  report,  are  of  paramount  importance 
to ensuring the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  We  also  acknowledge  the  Agency’s  growing 
role in ensuring that nuclear science and technology are 
used only for peaceful purposes, as well as its technical 
cooperation  in  bringing  about  tangible  progress  in 
national  efforts  to  reduce  poverty  and  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Ethiopia  is  one  of  the  beneficiary  States  of  the 
the  Agency’s  Technical 
IAEA’s  activities  under 
Cooperation  Programme.  The  Agency’s 
support 
has  been  instrumental  in  helping  us  develop  modest 
capabilities in the control of tsetse f lies, the treatment 
of cancer, diagnostic nuclear medicine services, isotope 
hydrological  analysis  and  non-destructive  quality 
testing. Despite that encouraging cooperation, I would 
like to underline that we are still far from the optimal 
use  of  the  transferred  technologies  or  from  sustaining 
the  services  initiated  through  the  various  technical 
cooperation projects that have been implemented in the 
past several years.
Our  major  technical  cooperation  project  with  the 
Agency is aimed at eradicating the tsetse f ly from the 
southern  Rift  Valley  region  of  Ethiopia  through  an 
integrated  pest-management  approach.  The  project  is 
currently  being  implemented,  and,  so  far,  remarkable 
achievements  have  been  registered  and  quite  a 
substantial  number  of  communities  have  benefited 
by  regaining  their  farmland  and  seeing  the  return  of 
health  to  their  livestock.  The  project  has  been  and 
will  continue  to  be  the  top  priority  in  our  technical 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA.  In  that  regard,  we  wish 
to  request  that  the  Agency  continue  to  accord  high 
priority  to  agricultural  and  livestock  development  in 
Africa,  including  in  Ethiopia.  My  country  reaffirms 
its strong commitment to peaceful nuclear applications 
as  an  important  component  of  the  effort  to  tackle  the 
24 
12-57291
challenges of development. In that regard, the support 
of  the  IAEA  in  ensuring  food  safety  and  security,  as 
well  as  energy,  through  nuclear  technology  should  be 
maintained and strengthened.
The  other  important  area  of  partnership  where 
Ethiopia continues to benefit from the IAEA Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  is  the  application  of  nuclear 
technology and techniques in the area of human health. 
In response to the rise in the number of cases of cancer in 
developing countries, Ethiopia has come increasingly to 
rely on the IAEA’s comprehensive Programme of Action 
for  Cancer  Therapy.  In  that  respect,  while  expressing 
appreciation to the Agency for its technical assistance 
and for the impact assessment made, Ethiopia hopes to 
see a further strengthening of our partnership with the 
Agency.  The  annual  incidence  of  cancer  is  estimated 
to  be  about  150,000  cases,  of  which  80  per  cent  will 
require  radiotherapy.  It  is  for  that  compelling  reason 
that we call upon the Agency to further strengthen its 
support  to  Ethiopia  and  other  developing  countries  in 
the  fight  against  cancer  through  sustainable  cancer 
therapy  programmes  by  carrying  out  more  integrated 
national and regional programmes.
In  conclusion,  as  one  of  the  founding  States 
members  of  the  Agency,  Ethiopia  reiterates  its  strong 
commitment to the peaceful use of nuclear technologies 
and to respecting and implementing global and regional 
instruments  designed  to  control  radioactive  and  other 
nuclear  materials.  However,  we  are  also  fully  aware 
that  the  threats  of  nuclear  weapons  to  international 
peace  and  security  are  real  and  need  to  be  confronted 
with  collective  and  concerted  efforts.  Ethiopia  will 
continue to support the IAEA’s activities to effectively 
execute  its  global  mandate  of  ensuring  the  peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  for  the  benefit 
of humankind.
Mr.  Hashmi  (Pakistan):  We 
thank  Director 
General  Amano  for  presenting  the  annual  report  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
congratulate Fiji, San Marino and Trinidad and Tobago 
on becoming the newest members of the Agency.
For  over  five  decades,  the  IAEA  has  worked 
successfully as a catalyst for promoting nuclear science 
and  related  technologies.  It  has  helped  member  States 
advance  their  development  priorities,  while  ensuring 
that nuclear science and technology are used in a safe, 
secure  and  sustainable  manner.  For  that,  the  Agency 
deserves the deep appreciation of us all.
A/67/PV.30
We  share  the  Agency’s  assessment  that  nuclear 
energy  should  continue  to  be  a  preferred  source  of 
viable,  safe  and  sustainable  alternative  energy  in  the 
future, despite the justifiable public anxiety that arose 
in the wake of the Fukushima accident.
Pakistan  recognizes  the  important  role  played  by 
IAEA verification regime. We have fully complied with 
our obligations pursuant to our Safeguards Agreements 
with the IAEA. The unanimous approval last year by the 
IAEA Board of our C.3 and C.4 Safeguards Agreements 
ref lected the international community’s recognition of 
Pakistan’s expertise in the safe and secure operation of 
nuclear power plants.
Pakistan believes that all States should fully comply 
with  their  safeguards  obligations  and  international 
commitments  in  order  to  maintain  the  credibility  of 
the safeguards regime. Maintaining a balance between 
the regulatory, promotional and safety functions of the 
Agency  is  essential.  The  Agency  must  be  seen  by  all 
member States as an impartial, efficient and professional 
body. It is important to correct the public perception of 
the IAEA as being only a watchdog. Its primary role in 
the  promotion  of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology needs to be re-emphasized.
Pakistan  is  a  strong  advocate  of  utilizing  nuclear 
technology  for  peace,  progress  and  prosperity  for  all. 
As  Pakistan  is  the  sixth  most  populous  nation  in  the 
world,  socioeconomic  development  is  a  priority  for 
our  Government.  For  over  55  years  now,  the  Pakistan 
Atomic Energy Commission has been actively engaged 
in  harnessing  nuclear  technology  for  our  development 
priorities. In the past five decades, Pakistan has sought 
to enhance the application of nuclear technology for our 
people  in  a  variety  of  ways  and  in  collaboration  with 
the Agency.
Even  as  we  utilize  nuclear  technology  for  diverse 
purposes,  the  harnessing  of  nuclear  science  for  power 
generation  remains  a  priority.  At  present,  the  share  of 
nuclear  power  in  Pakistan’s  electricity  mix  is  modest. 
However,  in  view  of  our  large  population,  the  deficit 
in  fossil  fuels  and  rising  energy  demand,  we  plan  to 
increase the current level of 750 megawatts of nuclear 
power-generation capacity to at least 8,800 megawatts 
by the year 2030. That is a challenging task, but we are 
determined  to  pursue  it  as  an  important  development 
imperative.
Three nuclear power plants are already on line and 
have  been  performing  very  well.  The  oldest  of  these 
12-57291
25
A/67/PV.30
was  commissioned  way  back  in  1972.  Besides  those 
three,  two  more  nuclear  power  plants,  generating  340 
megawatts each, are under construction and are expected 
to be commissioned by 2016. All nuclear power plants 
in Pakistan operate under IAEA safeguards.
Pakistan  has  also  been  actively  engaged 
in 
drawing  lessons  from  the  events  at  Fukushima.  As  a 
result  of  stress  tests  and  extensive  studies,  a  response 
action  plan  has  been  developed  in  collaboration  with 
the  Pakistan  Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority  (PNRA). 
The  plan  is  at  various  stages  of  implementation 
under  PNRA  oversight.  Pakistan  has  always  attached 
great  importance  to  ensuring  that  all  its  work  in  the 
nuclear  power  domain  is  conducted  within  secure  and 
transparent  institutional  structures.  At  the  national 
level,  the  Pakistan  Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority, 
which is an independent regulatory and licensing body, 
has  been  performing  professionally  and  efficiently 
for  11  years  now.  At  the  international  level,  we  have 
had  a  long-standing  engagement  with  IAEA  forums. 
We  have  invited  and  supported  World  Association  of 
Nuclear Operators peer review missions. We have also 
welcomed  individual  experts  under  the  aegis  of  the 
IAEA.
It  is  a  matter  of  growing  concern  that  even  the 
supply  of  safety-related  equipment  has  fallen  victim 
to  the  restrictive  and  discriminatory  export-control 
policies of some States. That does not augur well for the 
IAEA’s goal of encouraging worldwide enhancement of 
safety standards.
structures, 
to  ensuring 
Nuclear  security  is  both  a  global  challenge  and  a 
national  responsibility.  Pakistan  accords  the  highest 
priority 
the  establishment  of  robust 
security  mechanisms.  Over  the  years,  we  have  put  in 
place  extensive  physical  protection  measures,  robust 
command-and-control 
comprehensive 
export controls and wide-ranging regulatory regimes. In 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA,  Pakistan  is  implementing 
a  nuclear  security  action  plan  that  has  been  called  a 
model  for  other  States.  We  have  gained  considerable 
experience  in  the  field  of  nuclear  security.  A  national 
training  academy  runs  multi-tier  training  modules  for 
comprehensive nuclear security solutions, and is being 
opened  for  international  training  courses  as  well.  A 
nuclear  emergency  management  system  is  being  put 
in  place.  Pakistan  subscribes  to  the  IAEA’s  Code  of 
Conduct  on  the  Safety  and  Security  of  Radioactive 
Sources, and to its Illicit Trafficking Database. Where 
the  security  of  radioactive  sources  is  concerned, 
Pakistan  is  implementing  a  cradle-to-grave  concept, 
in  accordance  with  IAEA  nuclear  security  series 
documents.
the 
Finally, 
IAEA  can  make  a  significant 
contribution  to  increasing  the  contribution  of  atomic 
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout 
the  world.  The  Agency  is  uniquely  placed  to  meet  the 
needs  and  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  in  a 
balanced  manner.  Pakistan  believes  in  an  equitable, 
non-discriminatory  and  criteria-based  approach  to 
advance the universally shared goals of non-proliferation 
and  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
We  hope  that    safety  and  security  considerations  will 
facilitate, not hinder, the pursuit of the peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  for  promoting  the  development  agenda 
and offsetting environmental degradation.
Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  transmitting  the  IAEA’s 
annual report for 2011 (see A/67/152) and for providing 
additional  information  on  the  Agency’s  more  recent 
developments  and  activities  in  his  prepared  statement 
(see A/67/152/Add.1). We appreciate the competent and 
professional  manner  in  which  the  Director  General 
and  the  Secretariat  have  steered  the  Agency  through 
its  extensive  activities  with  a  view  to  accelerating 
and  expanding  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to 
peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout  the  world. 
We  note  with  particular  appreciation  that,  in  carrying 
out  its  mandate,  the  Agency  has  risen  to  meet  an 
array  of  challenges,  ranging  from  the  risks  of  nuclear 
proliferation and nuclear terrorism, to nuclear safety in 
the wake of the Fukushima accident last year.
In  that  context,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
commend  the  Agency  for  its  achievements  in  the 
field  of  nuclear  safety.  As  outlined  in  the  report,  the 
Agency  has  been  successful  in  implementing  the 
Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  adopted  at  the  fifty-
fifth  session  of  the  IAEA’s  General  Conference,  held 
last  year.  Through  implementation  of  the  Action  Plan 
with  the  full  cooperation  and  participation  of  member 
States,  the  Agency  is  successfully  incorporating  the 
lessons  learned  from  Fukushima,  thereby  enhancing 
the effectiveness of both the regulatory framework and 
the  operating  organizations  in  IAEA  member  States. 
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  that  the  Agency  has 
taken steps to upgrade its emergency preparedness and 
response  capabilities  as  a  whole,  which  we  anticipate 
26 
12-57291
will  result  in  tangible  improvements  to  national 
emergency preparedness and response arrangements.
The  work  of  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
security,  particularly  its  efforts  to  coordinate  and 
enhance  cooperation  among  various  initiatives  and 
activities,  is  also  worthy  of  note.  We  welcome  the 
progress  that  the  Agency  has  made  in  implementing 
the  goals  and  priorities  set  out  in  its  Nuclear  Security 
Report 2011. We are also pleased to note the successful 
establishment  of 
the  Nuclear  Security  Guidance 
Committee  as  a  standing  body  of  experts  on  nuclear 
security.
to 
adherence 
The  Republic  of  Korea  hosted  the  second  Nuclear 
Security  Summit  last  March  in  Seoul.  The  Seoul 
Summit  resulted  in  comprehensive  agreed  measures 
for action to prevent nuclear and radiological terrorism, 
including  eliminating  and  reducing  nuclear  materials; 
encouraging  wider 
international 
instruments;  and  combating  the  illicit  trafficking  of 
nuclear  and  radiological  materials.  In  addition,  the 
Seoul  Summit  emphasized  the  central  role  that  the 
IAEA  plays  in  strengthening  the  international  nuclear 
security  framework.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  and 
support the IAEA International Conference on Nuclear 
Security, to be held in Vienna in July 2013. My delegation 
is convinced that the Conference will provide a timely 
global forum to discuss future directions and priorities 
for nuclear security, as well as generate valuable input 
for  the  preparation  of  the  2014-2017  Nuclear  Security 
Plan.
In  early  September,  the  Director  General  released 
an updated report on the application of safeguards in the 
Democratic  People’s Republic of Korea. As the Director 
General  stated  in  his  report,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  programme  is  a  matter 
of  serious  concern,  and  its  statements  about  uranium 
enrichment  activities  and  the  construction  of  a  light-
water reactor continue to be deeply troubling. Sharing 
as  we  do  the  Director  General’s  serious  concern,  my 
delegation would like to point out that those activities 
are a clear breach of Security Council resolutions 1718 
(2006) and 1874 (2009). My delegation therefore urges 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  comply 
fully with its obligations under the relevant resolutions 
of the Council.
Furthermore,  we  would 
the 
resolution  on  the  implementation  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) Safeguards 
recall 
like 
to 
A/67/PV.30
Agreement  between  the  Agency  and  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  adopted  by  consensus 
at  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Conference, 
held  this  year.  We  also  reiterate  the  international 
community’s call for the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  come  into  full  compliance  with  the  NPT 
and  to  cooperate  promptly  with  the  Agency  in  the 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  comprehensive 
safeguards.  The  resolution  voices  the  international 
community’s  serious  concern  about  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  programme, 
including  its  construction  of  a  light-water  reactor  and 
its  uranium  enrichment  activities.  The  resolution  also 
reaffirms the consensus that exists in the international 
community  that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  should  not  have  nuclear-weapon-State  status.  It 
also underlines concern about the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea’s  statement  in  August  announcing 
its intention to totally re-examine its nuclear policy. As 
the resolution clearly states, whatever that review may 
consist of, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
must reaffirm its commitment to denuclearization and 
to the 2005 Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks.
With regard to the Agency’s activities in the field of 
safeguards, we welcome the continuing increase in the 
number  of  countries  for  which  both  a  comprehensive 
safeguards agreement and an additional protocol are in 
force. With a total of 114 States now having additional 
protocols  in  force  —  an  increase  of  10  since  the  last 
report  —  the  additional  protocol  is  well  on  its  way 
to  becoming  the  universal  international  safeguards 
standard.
instrument 
We  strongly  believe  that  the  additional  protocol 
constitutes  a  crucial  verification 
that 
not  only  enhances  the  Agency’s  ability  to  verify  the 
peaceful  nature  of  all  nuclear  material  in  a  State  but 
also  ensures  international  confidence  in  a  State’s 
nuclear  programme.  In  that  regard,  we  call  for  other 
member  States  to  conclude  and  bring  into  force  the 
comprehensive safeguards agreement and the additional 
protocol if they have not yet done so.
In the light of the full support for the IAEA’s work to 
achieve our common goal of harnessing nuclear energy 
in the service of peace and development for humankind, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft 
resolution A/67/L.3 on the report of the IAEA.
Mr. Tarbah (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
we  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
12-57291
27
A/67/PV.30
the  sincere  efforts  made 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  the  valuable  and  comprehensive 
report  on  the  activities  of  the  Agency  (see  A/67/152). 
The  report  ref lects 
to 
achieve the international goals set by the international 
community,  foremost  of  which  are  non-proliferation, 
the  complete  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons,  the  use 
of nuclear energy for sustainable development and the 
advancement  of  scientific  knowledge  for  the  good  of 
all humankind in all areas. We would like to stress the 
following points.
in  providing 
technical  assistance 
First, we emphasize the importance and central role 
of the IAEA in the areas of inspection and verification, 
as  well  as 
to 
developing  countries  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy. Secondly, we stress the inalienable right of all 
States  to  acquire  and  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  as  well  as  the  need  to  avoid  a  monopoly  on 
nuclear  technology  by  some  States  while  depriving 
others from acquiring it. Thirdly, we underline the need 
for  all  member  States  to  commit  without  exception  to 
opening their nuclear facilities to IAEA inspection and 
verification.  Fourthly,  the  international  community 
should bring pressure to bear on Israel to accede to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and  to  open  its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  international 
inspection and verification regime of the Agency.
In  closing,  we  would  like  to  stress  that  Libya  is 
eager to promote and support a cooperative partnership 
with the IAEA in a transparent manner. We are willing 
to provide all assistance necessary to IAEA inspectors 
to fulfil their functions in Libya as appropriate.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. 
We 
shall  now  proceed 
to  consider  draft 
resolution A/67/L.3. Before giving the f loor to speakers 
in  explanation  of  vote  or  position,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  Regarding  the  report  under  discussion  (see 
A/67/152)  and  the  related  draft  resolution  (A/67/L.3), 
my  country’s  delegation  considers  the  report  to  be  far 
from correct or true and believes that it fails to cover the 
fundamental reality of the nuclear issue on the Korean 
peninsula.  With  regard  to  that  matter,  my  country’s 
delegation would like to clarify its position. 
First of all, the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA)  is  without  justification  and  has  no  power  to 
intervene on the nuclear issue of the Korea peninsula. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  not  a 
State  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons or a member of the IAEA. As far as 
our  relationship  with  the  IAEA  is  concerned,  already 
in  the  early  1990s  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  cut  off  its  official  relations  with  the  Agency 
and severed all contacts of any kind with it. We made 
that  decision  when  the  Agency  lost  the  impartiality 
expected  of  an  international  organization  by  adopting 
the wrongful and biased attitude implicit in siding with 
the politically motivated conspiracy of the United States 
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
However, at a later stage, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  entered  into 
bilateral  talks  and  the  Six-Party  Talks  were  opened, 
at  which  point  the  United  States  requested  that  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  allow  the 
IAEA  to  offer  technical  consultation  on  the  sidelines 
of  the  Six-Party  Talks.  We  reluctantly  honoured  that 
request.  The  condition  for  that  allowance  was  that  the 
consultation would take place only while the Six-Party 
Talks were in progress. 
Nevertheless,  considering  the  current  situation 
and developments on the Korean peninsula, the United 
States  has  not  hesitated  to  escalate,  aggravate  and 
ramp  up  its  threats  and  attempts  at  blackmail  through 
increased  hostilities  towards  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. The situation on the peninsula is on 
the  brink  of  explosion.  Nobody  knows  when  war  may 
break out. 
In 
those  circumstances, 
the  Six-Party  Talks 
have  come  nearly  to  the  point  of  being  a  dead  letter. 
In  that  state  of  affairs,  the  IAEA  has  no  role  to  play. 
Furthermore,  the  IAEA  has  sided  with  the  hostile 
United States against the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  blindly  following  the  United  States  policy 
against my country. It has complicated the way towards 
a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean 
peninsula. We can therefore say that the IAEA has no 
justifiable role to play. 
Despite  all  of  the  foregoing,  we  now  have  this 
year’s  annual  report  before  us.  The  IAEA  has  come 
out and produced such language as “deeply troubling” 
with regard to the new enrichment facilities and light-
water  reactor  construction,  while  also  expressing  the 
28 
12-57291
Agency’s so-called readiness to resume its involvement 
in verification activities.
All  of  that  is  absurd  and  makes  no  sense  in  the 
context of what I have just said. 
target on the ground for an air strike exercise involving 
live ammunition. It is clear that the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  a  target  to  be  eliminated  by  the 
United States. 
A/67/PV.30
On this occasion, the delegation of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  draw  the 
attention  of  all  participants  here  to  the  different 
status  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  as 
everybody  knows,  has  emerged  as  a  full-f ledged  and 
justifiable  nuclear-weapon  State.  It  is  clear  that  the 
IAEA  cannot  and  should  not  use  the  same  standard 
it  was  using  when  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea’s  nuclear  activities  were  limited  to  peaceful 
purposes.  The  function  of  the  IAEA  is  to  deal  mainly 
with  non-nuclear-weapon  States  and  the  case  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is different, as 
clearly observed in the IAEA’s previous approach. The 
Agency has never raised an issue or expressed concern 
about the nuclear activities of the other nuclear-weapon 
States; it has done so only with regard to the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. That does not make sense; 
it  is  absurd  and  yet  another  instance  of  the  Agency’s 
diminishing impartiality in its activities. 
Secondly, the IAEA cannot and is not in a position 
to offer a helping hand in the settlement of the nuclear 
issue of the Korean peninsula. The resolution of all such 
issues  should  be  based  on  an  objective  analysis  of  the 
fundamental  current  reality  behind  those  issues.  With 
regard to the fundamental essence of the nuclear issue 
of  the  Korean  peninsula,  it  is  absolutely  the  product 
of  the  hostile,  deeply  rooted  and  long-standing  policy 
of  the  United  States  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  Moreover,  the  United  States  did 
not hesitate to list the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  as part  of  the  axis  of  evil  and  as  a  first  nuclear 
pre-emptive strike target by the United States. 
Furthermore, when one considers the United States 
military activities in South Korea this year, its holding 
of  one  large-scale  exercise  after  another,  involving 
up  to  500,000  troops,  is  unprecedented.  The  United 
States  is  more  than  ready  to  attack  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  at  any  time.  Another  joint 
military  exercise  is  now  under  way,  involving  over 
200,000  troops  of  the  United  States  and  South  Korea. 
As  representatives  can  imagine,  they  are  using  live 
ammunition.  In  an  exercise  this  summer,  they  used 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  f lag  as  a 
In  the  face  of  that  threat  and  in  response  to  such 
blackmail  from  the  largest  nuclear-weapon  State,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  had  no  option 
but  to  go  nuclear  to  defend  itself,  to  safeguard  its 
security  and  sovereignty  and  to  safeguard  the  right  to 
existence  of  the  entire  Korean  nation.  Therefore,  the 
nuclear  deterrent  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  represents  the  deterrence  of  war  and  it  is  an 
almighty and most treasured sword that can guarantee 
peace,  stability  and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
and in the region. It is therefore in the interests of the 
regional countries to move towards peace, development, 
détente and stability. 
Concerning  the  withdrawal  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea from the NPT and the IAEA, 
our objective is to make the United States abandon its 
strong-arm policy and move towards reconciliation and 
coexistence  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  As  long  as  that  hostile  policy  continues,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  increase, 
strengthen  and  expand  its  nuclear  capability  and  its 
arsenal of nuclear weapons. Therefore, the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  kindly 
recommend  that  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  not  repeat  its  issuance  of  this  kind  of  annual 
report,  with  its  absurd  content  and  language.  It  will 
result only in tarnishing and destroying its own image. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of position. 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.3, 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. I give the f loor 
to the representative of the Secretariat.
“Report 
entitled 
of 
the 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution, 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.3, 
following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania,  Argentina, 
Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Benin,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Burundi,  Cameroon,  Croatia,  Cyprus, 
the  Czech 
Republic,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iraq, 
12-57291
29
A/67/PV.30
Ireland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Montenegro, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, 
Peru,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  the  Russian 
Federation,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Singapore,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Thailand,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
Uruguay and Zambia. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.3.  May  I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  the  draft 
resolution?
Draft 
(resolution 67/3).
resolution 
A/67/L.3  was 
adopted 
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  call  on  those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that  statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  Concerning  the  remarks  made  by  the 
representatives of Japan and South Korea, the delegation 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would 
like to exercise its right of reply.
First,  concerning  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Japan that the nuclear weapons of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  are  a  threat 
to  East  Asia,  we  totally  reject  this  allegation,  as  it 
makes no sense at all in the context of the fundamental 
reality  of  the  Korean  peninsula  for  the  reasons  I  have 
just  elaborated  upon.  But  one  thing  is  clear. When we 
consider who is the source of the threat in the region, it 
is none other than Japan. Japan has nuclear capabilities. 
It has over 40 tons of plutonium. It is a plutonium world 
champion. It is acknowledged that Japan can assemble 
nuclear weapons at short notice, even within only a few 
hours’ time.
Japan  has  a  secret  nuclear  agreement  with  the 
United  States,  adopted  in  1960,  under  which  it  allows 
nuclear-weapon-capable  American  warships  to  enter 
its  territorial  waters  at  any  time.  Japan  continues  to 
tell  the  world  that  it  has  three  non-nuclear  principles, 
which  are  not  legalized but  are  only  oral.  In  reality,  it 
is doing something quite different; it is moving towards 
militarism without expressing any apology for its past 
crimes,  including  crimes  against  humanity,  of  which 
we are all aware.
Concerning the remarks made by the representative 
of  South  Korea,  again, 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  cannot  have  the  status  of  nuclear-
weapon  State.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  has  never  requested  such  status.  It  is  up  to  us 
whether we do so or not; it is our right in response to the 
threat. And South Korea has allowed American nuclear 
weapons into South Korea since 1957, blackmailing the 
entire  Korean  nation.  They  cannot  hide  or  cast  aside 
this  fact.  Moreover,  South  Korea  is  still  under  the 
nuclear umbrella of the United States.
Mr. Kodama (Japan): I would like to exercise my 
right of reply in response to the statement just made by 
the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea. 
First,  the  Government  of  Japan’s  adherence  to 
the  three  non-nuclear  principles  —  not  possessing, 
manufacturing or permitting the introduction of nuclear 
weapons into our territory — remains unchanged, and 
Japan’s determination in pursuit of the total elimination 
of  nuclear  weapons  with  a  view  to  achieving  a  world 
without nuclear weapons is unshakable.
Secondly, 
an 
Japan  maintains 
exclusively 
therefore  exercises 
defence-oriented  policy,  and 
conducted  by  the  Self-Defence  Forces  of  Japan  do  not 
target  any  particular  country  or  area.  Moreover,  the 
ballistic missile defence system that Japan has decided 
to  introduce  is  purely  defensive  and  does  not  threaten 
any country or area surrounding Japan.
Thirdly, it is not a fact that the Government of Japan 
has  ever  allowed  the  introduction  of  nuclear  weapons 
by  the  United  States  onto  Japanese  territory.  Based 
on  the  United  States  nuclear  policy  expressed  to  date, 
including  the  1991  announcement,  it  is  the  judgement 
of  the  Japanese  Government  that  there  is  currently  no 
introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  by  the  United  States, 
including via vessels and/or aircraft calling at port in, 
landing on or transiting Japanese territories. I reiterate 
that  the  Japan  continues  to  maintain  the  policy  of 
adhering to the three non-nuclear principles.
Lastly,  Japan  has  acted  in  strict  compliance  with 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
(NPT)  and  its  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
safeguards  obligations  as  an  NPT  State  party.  Japan’s 
30 
12-57291
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  have  been  confirmed 
by the IAEA in its annual conclusions that all nuclear 
materials  remain  in  peaceful  activities.  Moreover, 
beyond legal obligations, as a measure of international 
transparency  Japan  has  regularly  reported  the  amount 
of  its  plutonium  holdings  in  accordance  with  the 
guidelines  for  the  management  of  plutonium,  most 
recently on 17 September.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  Concerning  the  remarks  made  by  the 
representative  of  Japan,  once  again  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea totally rejects this allegation. 
All  that  has  been  said  is  simply  political  cover-up.  It 
is a fact that in 1960 Japan concluded a secret nuclear 
agreement with the United States that goes against the 
three  non-nuclear  principles,  which  are  themselves 
contained in no legal or legitimate document. If Japan is 
serious about its non-nuclear position, then why should 
it hesitate to adopt a legitimate document?
Lastly,  Japan  is  pursuing  militarization,  seeking 
to  become  a  military  Power.  It  is  creating  territorial 
A/67/PV.30
disputes  with  all  neighbouring  countries,  including 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  China  and  Russia.  Japan  is 
making  territorial  claims  that  are  utterly  unfounded 
and  aimed  purely  at  promoting  the  expansionist  and 
militaristic interests of Japan.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  I  have  no  intention  of 
repeating  the  statement  I  made  earlier  to  refute 
the  allegations  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  With  respect 
to other groundless allegations made by the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea delegation against Japan, I 
would  rather  my  delegation  reserve  its  right  of  reply 
until an appropriate opportunity arrives in due course.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 85? 
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
12-57291
31
