United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
54th plenary meeting
Thursday, 13 December 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.54
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 70
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
Report of the Secretary-General (А/67/492)
Draft resolutions (А/67/L.32 and A/67/L.37)
(a)Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
Reports of the Secretary-General (А/67/89, 
А/67/361, А/67/363 and А/67/367)
Draft resolution (А/67/L.39)
(b)Assistance to the Palestinian people
Report of the Secretary-General (А/67/84)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.38)
(c)Special economic assistance to individual 
countries or regions
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
representative  of  Argentina,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.32.
Assembly  a  draft  resolution  on  the  White  Helmets 
initiative (A/67/L.32).
Against  a  backdrop  in  which  global  economic 
and  financial  difficulties  are  affecting  international 
humanitarian cooperation, the effects of climate change 
are  ever  more  devastating,  and  socio-natural  disasters 
claim lives and exact a high price for development, the 
countries  of  the  South  and  middle-  and  low-income 
countries  are  playing  an  ever  more  important  role 
on  the  international  stage  in  terms  of  commitment, 
technical  and  material  resources,  collaboration  with 
the  communities  in  greatest  need,  fighting  hunger 
and  poverty,  emergency  response  and  international 
humanitarian assistance.
in 
the 
These  circumstances  have  been  recognized  by 
various  actors 
international  humanitarian 
assistance field, including the International Committee 
of  the  Red  Cross,  which  emphasized  in  its  appeal  for 
emergency  funds  for  2013  that  several  countries  of 
Africa, Asia and Latin America have been participating 
increasingly  and  more  directly 
in  humanitarian 
assistance and development cooperation activities.
That  is  the  backdrop  against  which  the  White 
Helmets initiative has begun its eighteenth year of work 
within the United Nations system since the adoption of 
resolution 49/139 B in 1994. At that time, few countries 
had decided to develop such a tool; almost 20 years later, 
we are pleased to see that this minority has become the 
majority.
Mr.  Fuks  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  an 
honour  for  me  once  again  to  introduce  to  the  General 
Whenever a disaster or emergency occurs, the first 
to  arrive  on  the  scene  to  help  are  the  neighbouring 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64711 (E)
*1264711*
A/67/PV.54
countries.  In  turn,  subregional  organizations  and 
then  the  international  system  take  their  places  and 
assume  their  responsibilities  to  promote  international 
cooperation  to  reduce  risks,  prevent  and  mitigate 
disasters, provide assistance, and coordinate rescue and 
rehabilitation measures.
However,  the  situation  remains  difficult.  The 
Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Valerie Amos, has 
informed  the  world  that  62  million  people  across  the 
five continents are in need of humanitarian assistance. 
We believe that the General Assembly’s support for the 
draft  resolution,  which  once  again  supports  the White 
Helmets initiative of the Republic of Argentina, is also 
a  recognition  of  other  national  initiatives  in  the  Latin 
American region with global scope.
The  efforts  of  developing  countries  should  be 
valued  not  only  for  the  extent  of  their  investment  in 
the  humanitarian  field,  but  also  for  the  models  and 
concepts  ref lected  in  their  international  practices  that 
give  priority  to  local  capacity-building  and  how  easy 
actions  are  to  replicate.  Such  components  include 
the  participation  of  organized  communities  and  their 
affected or vulnerable populations in disaster situations 
and  complex  emergencies, 
local 
voluntary corps, and support for specialized volunteers 
when needed. 
training  of 
the 
The  use  of  the  ancestral  knowledge  of  indigenous 
communities  and  a  cross-gender  approach  contribute 
to  ensuring  that  our  working  methods  include  the  full 
spectrum  of  sectors  and  take  national  particularities 
into account.
Finally,  it  is  important  to  underline  some  areas  of 
common agreement in our region regarding the concept 
of  disasters.  We  reject  their  designation  as  natural 
events;  they  should  be  recognized  for  what  they  truly 
are  —  the  consequences  of  development  policies  that 
are  far  from  equitable  or  interested  in  the  distribution 
of wealth, social justice and community participation.
We trust that Member States will support the White 
Helmets initiative at this sixty-seventh session, thereby 
strengthening the coordination strategy with the United 
Nations system that has been implemented by the White 
Helmets  through  our  shared  activities  with  the  United 
Nations Volunteers, the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  United  Nations 
International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction, the 
World Food Programme, the World Health Organization, 
the  Pan  American  Health  Organization  and  the  Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Our President, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, has 
pointed out to the Assembly that a safer and more just 
world can be built only on the basis of greater equality 
among  all  countries  and  if  true  multilateralism  is 
achieved.  We  look  to  the  future  with  confidence  and 
aim  to  build  more  and  better  mechanisms  based  on 
those pillars.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
representative of Cyprus to introduce draft resolutions 
A/67/L.37 and A/67/L.38.
Ms. Rafti (Cyprus): I have the honour to introduce 
two draft resolutions on behalf of the European Union 
and its member States. I will begin with draft resolution 
A.67/L.37, entitled “Safety and security of humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel”. 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
attach  great  importance  to  the  safety  and  security  of 
humanitarian  personnel.  We  are  concerned  by  the 
increased number of casualties and accidents involving 
humanitarian  personnel  in  recent  years,  especially 
when  attacks  deliberately  target  United  Nations  and 
humanitarian  personnel.  We  are  also  concerned  that 
aviation  incidents  are  the  primary  cause  of  safety-
related  accidents.  We  highly  value  the  work  and 
commitment  of  humanitarian  personnel,  including 
thousands of locally recruited personnel who often put 
their lives at risk to provide humanitarian assistance. 
The draft resolution, which we hope to see adopted 
by  consensus  today,  shows  that  all  Member  States  are 
concerned by and can come together around the safety, 
security and protection of humanitarian personnel and 
United  Nations  personnel.  We  note  with  satisfaction 
that  this  year’s  draft  resolution  has  some  reinforced 
language  on  the  need  for  closer  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  its  implementing  partners  on 
security  policies  and  the  better  integration  of  gender 
into  risk-management  strategies.  The  United  Nations 
and  aid  organizations  have  realized  that  they  have  to 
manage risk in order to continue to operate even in the 
most complex emergencies.
Building good relations and trust not only with host 
Governments but also with affected populations should 
be  an  integral  part  of  humanitarian  risk  management 
strategies  and  is  now  strengthened  in  the  draft 
resolution.
2 
12-64711
A/67/PV.54
We welcome the measures taken by the Department 
of Safety and Security and the United Nations security 
management system to continue to advance the strategic 
vision of a modern, professional security management 
system  that  enables  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  its 
mandate.  Building  on  those  positive  developments, 
the United Nations must continue to adapt its security 
policies to enable its humanitarian workers to stay and 
deliver  and  to  respond  to  all  emergencies,  including 
those  of  a  very  complex  nature.  We  cannot  be  late  in 
saving lives.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  delegations 
for  their  engagement  in  the  negotiations  and  their 
frankness  and  willingness  to  agree  on  the  important 
issues  addressed  by  the  draft  resolution.  We  warmly 
thank  the  numerous  States  that  are  sponsoring  the 
draft  resolution  and  look  forward  to  its  adoption  by 
consensus once again.
Let me now turn to the draft resolution A/67/L.38. 
It  is  my  pleasure  to  introduce  to  the  Assembly  a  draft 
resolution submitted by the 27 members of the European 
Union on assistance to the Palestinian people. The draft 
resolution has been shared with Member States. As in 
previous  years,  the  European  Union  expects  the  draft 
resolution to be adopted by consensus.
The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to  providing  assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
sustained support from the donors of the international 
community 
to  assisting  Palestinian 
State-building efforts, to strengthening the Palestinian 
economy, and to meeting the humanitarian needs of the 
Palestinian people.
is  essential 
The draft resolution on assistance to the Palestinian 
people  submitted  today  embodies  the  wish  of  the 
European  Union  and  of  the  international  community 
as  a  whole  to  help  the  Palestinian  people.  The  draft 
resolution  stresses  the  importance  of  the  work  done 
by  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies,  notably  in 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  Palestinian 
people.  It  urges  all  actors  of 
international 
community  to  provide  economic  and  social  assistance 
to  the  Palestinian  people.  It  also  urges  Member  States 
to open their markets to exports of Palestinian products 
on  the  most  favourable  terms.  Moreover,  the  draft 
resolution  stresses  the  importance  of  the  work  carried 
out  by  humanitarian  personnel  and  organizations  to 
provide  assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people,  and  it 
stresses the importance of free humanitarian access to 
the Palestinian people.
the 
The European Union wishes to express its gratitude 
to the delegations that have asked to be included on the 
list of sponsors of the draft text.
The Acting President:  I now give the f loor to the 
representative  of  Sweden  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.39.
this  year’s  draft  resolution  on 
Mr.  Grunditz  (Sweden):  It  is  my  great  pleasure 
to 
the 
introduce 
strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency  and 
humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
contained in document A/67/L.39. 
The  annual  adoption  of  this  draft  resolution  by 
the  General  Assembly  reaffirms  the  distinctive  and 
leading  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  coordinating 
and  responding  to  growing  humanitarian  needs  at  the 
global level. This year, a number of new elements have 
been  introduced  or  reinforced  in  the  draft  resolution, 
making it even more pertinent and ref lective of today’s 
new  reality.  Some  of  those  new  elements  are  the 
importance of strengthening partnerships and dialogue 
at all levels, including building good relations and trust 
at the national and local levels with a view to fostering 
acceptance.
The  draft  resolution  also  ref lects  the  importance 
of  data  collection  and  exchange  in  humanitarian 
decision-making. Moreover, the General Assembly this 
year  specifically  condemns  the  deliberate  attacks  on 
medical personnel and facilities. Some features already 
dealt  with  in  the  resolution  have  been  strengthened, 
such  as  accountability  and  leadership,  including  the 
role of the resident humanitarian coordinator.  Another 
example of progress is the reinforced emphasis on the 
challenges  encountered  in  humanitarian  emergencies 
by persons with disabilities. This year’s draft resolution 
also  has  more  relevant  and  specific  references  to  the 
importance of building resilience.
I  would  like  to  warmly  thank  all  delegations  that 
participated  in  this  year’s  negotiations  for  their  active 
and collaborative engagement and contributions. It has 
permitted  us  yet  again  to  adopt  this  important  draft 
resolution by consensus.
Mr.  Sea  (Cambodia):  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  which  consists  of  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the  Philippines, 
Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my  own  country, 
Cambodia,  on  agenda  item  70,  “Strengthening  of 
12-64711
3
A/67/PV.54
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  including  special 
economic assistance”. 
Every year, disasters and conf licts cause immense 
suffering for millions of people. Several factors — such 
as rapid population growth, urbanization, the potential 
outbreak  of  pandemic  disease,  rising  food  prices, 
regional  economic  and  social  disparities,  and  global 
climate  change  —  increase  countries’  vulnerability 
to  natural  and  man-made  disasters.  A  wide  range 
of  activities  and  measures  have  been  undertaken  to 
enhance  the  abilities  of  national  and  local  authorities 
to  prepare  for  and  respond  to  disasters.  However,  a 
large-scale  disaster  could  overwhelm  a  Government’s 
capacities  at  the  national  and  local  levels,  requiring 
immediate 
international 
humanitarian  community, 
regional  organizations, 
neighbouring  countries  and  relevant  agencies  of  the 
United Nations. 
assistance 
from 
the 
ASEAN  highly  appreciates  the  efforts  made  by 
the United Nations to improve humanitarian response, 
including  the  strengthening  of  capacities  to  manage 
disaster,  improving  humanitarian  coordination  and 
preparedness,  and  providing  adequate  funding  for 
emergency relief. It is truly gratifying to note that the 
United  Nations  disaster  assessment  and  coordination 
network  is  also  helping  Governments  to  strengthen 
their national capacities, including by sharing valuable 
knowledge, for better disaster prevention, preparedness 
and response, as well as effective post-disaster recovery. 
Regional 
participation 
organizations’ 
in 
humanitarian  action  is  increasing.  Several  regional 
organizations  are  already  playing  an  active  role  in 
emergency  preparedness  and  response.  I  am  proud 
to  mention  that  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  was  the  first  organization  to  adopt  a  legally 
binding  regional  cooperation  agreement  for  disaster 
risk  reduction  by  signing  the  ASEAN  Agreement  on 
Disaster  Management  and  Emergency  Response  in 
2005.  The  Agreement  creates  an  effective  mechanism 
for  minimizing  losses  of  the  personnel  of  ASEAN 
member States, as well as of their social, economic and 
environmental  assets  and  resources,  while  facilitating 
a  joint  response  to  disaster  emergencies  through 
concerted national efforts and intensified regional and 
international cooperation. 
Furthermore, 
2011,  ASEAN 
Foreign  Ministers  also  signed  the  Agreement  on  the 
Establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Coordinating  Centre 
in  November 
for  Humanitarian  Assistance  on  disaster  management 
for 
the  purpose  of  facilitating  cooperation  and 
coordination  among  the  operational  parties  and  with 
relevant  United  Nations  agencies  and  international 
organizations 
in  promoting  regional  collaboration 
in  disaster  management  and  response.  The  signing 
of  the  Agreement  demonstrated  ASEAN  members’ 
commitment  to  enhancing  disaster  management  and 
reaffirmed  our  willingness  to  respond  to  disaster 
emergencies  through  concerted  national  efforts  and 
intensified regional and international cooperation. 
ASEAN  continues 
to  strengthen  cooperation 
and  coordination  among  its  member  States  and  with 
the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies,  especially  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs, 
on  disaster  risk  management,  response  preparedness 
and  post-disaster  coordination  under  the  ASEAN-
United  Nations  Strategic  Plan  of  Action  on  Disaster 
Management 2011-2015. 
related 
to 
involved 
Questions 
the  coordination  and 
facilitation  of  international  assistance  in  response  to 
national disasters have long challenged the international 
community. Local and national actors have always been 
at  the  forefront  of  responding  to  emergencies.  When 
they have been unable to respond effectively, they have 
requested  assistance  from  regional  and  international 
partners.  Over  the  years,  particularly  in  the  past  two 
decades,  the  number  and  diversity  of  international 
actors  becoming  directly 
in  operations 
after  major  disasters  has  grown,  but  there  remain 
systematic  challenges  regarding  how  affected  States 
and  international  assistance  actors  coordinate  during 
international response efforts. Affected States continue 
to have concerns that international humanitarian actors 
show insufficient respect for their own sovereign ability 
to  respond  to  disasters.  In  dealing  with  problems  of 
international assistance, therefore, the recognition that 
a  country  has  the  primary  responsibility  of  providing 
and  coordinating  humanitarian  assistance  needs  to 
be  balanced  with  the  recognition  that  international 
assistance  should  be  based  on  consent  when  local  and 
national capacities have been overwhelmed. 
Humanitarian  needs  are  expected  to  continue  to 
rise  in  the  coming  decades  because  of  an  increase  in 
the frequency and intensity of natural disasters. Rapid 
economic  growth  and  urbanization  will  lead  to  a 
growing concentration of people in hazard-prone cities 
with increased exposure to natural hazards. Therefore, 
humanitarian  organizations  will  need  to  develop  new 
4 
12-64711
approaches to responding to environmental disasters as 
part of their wider response to natural disasters. 
In conclusion, I take this opportunity to state that 
ASEAN  highly  appreciates  the  laudable  work  that  is 
being carried out by the relevant agencies of the United 
Nations. As humanitarian requirements escalate, there 
will  be  a  need  for  Governments  and  humanitarian 
organizations to anticipate, prepare for and respond to 
crises more successfully and to improve their abilities 
to  understand  how  global  trends  and  challenges  affect 
vulnerability and needs. 
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union.  
Mr.  Mayr-Harting  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour  to  speak  on behalf  of  the  European  Union  and 
its  member  States.  The  acceding  country  Croatia;  the 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Iceland  and  Serbia;  the 
countries  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and  potential  candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Armenia and Georgia, align themselves with 
this statement. 
It  is  a  particular  honour  to  speak  here  on  this 
important occasion, just a few days after the European 
Union was formally awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. We 
believe that that decision was a recognition of our long-
standing efforts to help victims of conf licts and natural 
disasters, and a loud call to continue with those efforts 
in the future. 
Over  the  past  two  decades,  our  humanitarian  aid 
has been the concrete expression of our solidarity with 
those most in need, having been affected by conf lict or 
disaster. As a specific expression of that commitment, 
the decision has been made to use the Nobel Peace Prize 
money, matched by an equal amount from the European 
Commission, to support humanitarian projects aimed at 
assisting children affected by conf lict.
The 
global 
context 
humanitarian 
remains 
challenging,  and  the  need  for  humanitarian  assistance 
around the globe is ever increasing. A number of factors 
contribute  to  that  challenging  context.  They  include 
the  complexity  of  conf lict  situations,  the  increasing 
disregard  for  international  humanitarian  and  refugee 
law, the obstruction of access in a growing number of 
humanitarian  emergencies,  and  the  multiplication  of 
actors  appearing  on  the  humanitarian  aid  scene.  The 
combined  impact  of  continuous  demographic  pressure 
A/67/PV.54
and  urbanization,  climate  change  and  competition  for 
resources,  high  and  volatile  food  and  energy  prices, 
security  threats  and  poor  governance  exacerbates 
vulnerabilities  and  further  increases  humanitarian 
needs. The effects of the global financial crisis further 
aggravate the challenge by limiting resources available 
for humanitarian ends. 
In that context, the humanitarian community needs 
to  do  more  with  less  by  increasing  the  effectiveness, 
efficiency  and  quality  of  aid.  We  therefore  continue 
to  strongly  support  the  reinforcement  of  the  global 
humanitarian system. We welcome the Transformative 
Agenda  of  the  Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee 
(IASC), launched by the Emergency Relief Coordinator, 
which  aims  at  further  strengthening  the  humanitarian 
response system in all humanitarian crises. We call on 
the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  and  all  other  IASC 
members to further the Agenda’s implementation at the 
operational  level  under  the  three  pillars  of  leadership, 
coordination  and  accountability,  and  to  demonstrate 
concrete and tangible results.
Humanitarian  leadership  is  a  central  element  of 
ensuring  a  coordinated  and  principled  humanitarian 
response.  Resident  and/or  humanitarian  coordinators 
play an especially important role in helping to preserve 
humanitarian  space,  through  strong  advocacy  for 
fundamental  humanitarian  principles.  We  believe  that 
resident coordinators should have the ability to lead on 
behalf  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system,  contribute 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  country  teams,  and 
promote  change.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations  and 
relevant  stakeholders  to  devise  an  integrated  strategy 
to  support  them  and  humanitarian  coordinators,  as 
well  as  to  facilitate  the  appointment,  retention  and 
empowerment of strong and experienced humanitarian 
leaders.
We  also  acknowledge  the  important  role  played 
by non-governmental organizations and the Red Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Movement,  which  deliver  the  bulk 
of  humanitarian  assistance  on  the  ground,  and  we 
commend  their  efforts  in  support  of  a  more  effective 
humanitarian response. 
A  solid,  shared  understanding  of  humanitarian 
needs is essential to providing an effective and targeted 
response.  We  therefore  support  the  continued  work 
towards  developing  a  framework  for  common  needs 
assessments.  In  order  to  develop  strategic,  prioritized 
and  efficient  responses,  and  to  better  measure  the 
performance  of  the  humanitarian  system,  we  need  to 
12-64711
5
A/67/PV.54
ensure that humanitarian action is based upon reliable, 
timely  and  independent  baseline  information.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  relevant  efforts  made  by  the 
United Nations and the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
We  also  welcome 
the  ongoing  efforts  of 
humanitarian  actors  to  strengthen  accountability  to 
all  stakeholders,  in  particular  to  affected  populations. 
Affected  populations  must  remain  at  the  centre  of 
humanitarian  action,  and  their  active  participation 
is  essential  in  providing  assistance  in  ways  that  best 
meet their needs. In order to better monitor and report 
humanitarian action, agencies need clear objectives and 
indicators in their strategic plans.
We also emphasize the need for both the development 
and  the  humanitarian  communities  to  strengthen  their 
support  for  transition  and  early  recovery  in  order  to 
provide hope to people affected by crises and to promote 
structural  changes.  The  strengthening  of  disaster 
resilience as a means to address chronic vulnerabilities 
in many regions of the world is becoming increasingly 
important.  As  an  example,  the  European  Union, 
together  with  the  affected  countries  of  the  region, 
supports building resilience in the Sahel region through 
a  specific  initiative.  A  similar  initiative  has  also  been 
devised for the Horn of Africa. At the European Union 
level,  we  look  forward  to  learning  from  and  building 
upon  those  initiatives,  and  to  further  strengthening 
links  between  our  humanitarian  and  development 
communities. 
In  that  regard,  we  encourage  United  Nations 
funds,  programmes  and  other  development  actors,  as 
well  as  OCHA  and  humanitarian  actors,  according  to 
their  respective  roles  and  responsibilities,  to  integrate 
resilience-based  and  disaster  risk  reduction  strategies 
into  their  planning,  in  close  cooperation  with  host 
Governments and regional organizations.
The  impact  of  natural  disasters  is  increasing,  and 
humanitarian needs persist as a consequence of armed 
conf lict.  We  firmly  believe  in  the  need  to  strengthen 
the  global  partnership  on  international  humanitarian 
assistance  in  an  effort  to  tackle  those  challenges. 
That  means  developing  new  partnerships,  building  an 
inclusive  international  dialogue  and  working  towards 
an  even  broader  donor  base  and  more  even  burden-
sharing.  We  welcome  the  outreach  efforts  of  Under-
Secretary-General  Amos  to  strengthen  partnerships, 
enhance  effective  coordination  and  encourage  all 
Member States and other humanitarian actors to work 
alongside OCHA in that regard.
While  the  European  Union  recognizes  that  a 
growing  number  of  humanitarian  actors  can  create 
unique and new possibilities for humanitarian response, 
it is necessary to ensure the protection of the established 
humanitarian  principles,  and  thereby  continue  to 
strengthen  the  humanitarian  space.  The  European 
Union  therefore  also  calls  on  all  relevant  actors  to 
respect  the  fundamental  humanitarian  principles  of 
humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence.
In 
Last  but  not  least,  the  European  Union  remains 
gravely  concerned  about  the  outbreak  of  several  new 
complex  emergencies,  the  continuation  of  protracted 
conf licts  and  the  continued  displacement  of  millions 
of  people. 
international 
humanitarian assistance is often essential to supporting 
and  supplementing  national  efforts  to  protect  and 
meet  the  needs  of  those  in  need.  Access  to  affected 
populations,  however,  is  often  severely  restricted,  due 
to  violent  conf lict,  bureaucratic  constraints  or  even 
deliberate bans of humanitarian organizations. 
such  emergencies, 
We also remain gravely concerned by escalating acts 
of violence perpetrated against humanitarian personnel 
and the looting of humanitarian supplies. The European 
Union  urges  all  States  and  all  parties  to  fulfil  their 
obligations  under  international  humanitarian  law  and 
to  preserve  the  humanitarian  space  by  ensuring  rapid 
and unhindered access for humanitarian personnel and 
supplies to populations in need, for populations in need 
to  receive  aid  and  be  afforded  protection,  and  to  take 
all necessary steps to ensure the safety and security of 
humanitarian workers.
Internationally  recognized  humanitarian  emblems 
that  afford  protection  for  humanitarian  workers  are, 
unfortunately,  becoming  deliberately  selected  targets. 
Similarly,  health  care  and  medical  personnel  are 
increasingly subject to attacks. That is highly alarming. 
It is unacceptable that the very people who are there to 
assist those in need should become the targets of attacks. 
We  call  on  all  parties  to  conf licts  to  protect  medical 
and  health  care  personnel  assigned  to  medical  duties, 
their  means  of  transport,  property  and  other  medical 
facilities, in accordance with all relevant international 
law, including humanitarian law.
In closing, let me reiterate our strong commitment 
to  continuing  our  engagement  with  all  Member  States 
in strengthening the humanitarian partnership, as well 
6 
12-64711
as  our  strong  support  for  the  remarkable  work  led  by 
the Emergency Relief Coordinator, Ms. Valerie Amos.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the observer State of Palestine.
individuals 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  At 
the  outset,  on 
behalf  of  the  Palestinian  people,  I  wish  to  extend  our 
sincere  gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the  solidarity 
and  support,  including  economic  and  humanitarian, 
of  Governments,  non-governmental  organizations, 
international  organizations  and 
from 
around the world that continue to significantly assuage 
part of the suffering endured by our people, who have 
been living under Israel’s ruthless occupation for more 
than four decades. For millions of Palestinian families, 
that assistance has been the main source of survival and 
sustenance provided to them through endless periods of 
instability, crises and uncertainty. We affirm that such 
assistance  has  been  vital,  including  in  supporting  the 
Palestinian  people’s  efforts  towards  ending  the  Israeli 
occupation  that  began  in  1967,  in  order  to  achieve 
the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
The  latest  figures  regarding  the  humanitarian  and 
economic  situation  in  Palestine  are  astounding  and 
tragic.  In  fact,  all  recent  reports  have  documented  the 
enormous  burden  international  agencies  are  enduring 
in  trying  to  address  the  continuously  growing  needs 
of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  alleviate  the  now 
entrenched  crisis,  caused  by  the  fact  that  the  illegal 
actions  and  measures  of  Israel,  the  occupying  Power, 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  have  continued 
unabated  and  have  dragged  the  Palestinian  people 
deeper into poverty and dependence on aid. Therefore, 
despite  the  desire  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  pursue 
development  towards  the  independence  of  their  State 
of Palestine, Israeli policies and practices have caused 
reverse development in the State of Palestine, miring a 
sizeable  portion  of  the  Palestinian  civilian  population 
in abject poverty.
The  negative 
the 
repercussions  of 
Israeli 
occupation  on  the  socioeconomic  conditions  of  the 
Palestinian  people  have  been  intensified  by  the  fact 
that  the  Palestinian  National  Authority  continues  to 
suffer  from  a  severe  fiscal  crisis,  partially  triggered 
by  shrinking  external  budget  support,  as  outlined  in 
the latest reports of the World Bank, the International 
Monetary Fund and the United Nations Conference on 
Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD).  While  the  total 
financing needs for the Palestinian National Authority 
A/67/PV.54
during the first half of 2012 amounted to $749 million, 
the  external  financial  support  received  was  only 
$446 million, leading to increased borrowing needs and 
debt.  Despite  that,  on  its  part  the  Palestinian  National 
Authority  implemented  several  steps  to  mitigate  the 
decline  in  donor  support.  For  example,  most  notably, 
the  Palestinian  National  Authority  widened  the  tax 
base  and  enhanced  the  collection  of  tax  arrears  from 
the largest corporations.
However, despite the enacted reforms, the monetary 
shortage  remains  large,  thus  hindering  the  Palestinian 
National Authority from investing in education, health 
and infrastructure, and from repaying outstanding debts 
to  the  private  sector,  which  is  necessary  to  fostering 
an  environment  conducive  to  entrepreneurship  and 
private-sector  investment.  As  a  result,  Palestine’s 
economic  growth  rate  decreased  and  unemployment 
rates increased throughout the first half of 2012. 
We 
therefore  reiterate  our  appeal 
to  donor 
States  and  international  organizations  to  fulfil  their 
outstanding  financial  commitments  to  the  Palestinian 
National  Authority  and  to  boost  their  fiscal  support. 
Moreover,  we  call  on  the  international  community  to 
compel Israel, the occupying Power, to end its ongoing 
practice  of  withholding  taxes  and  customs  revenues 
due  to  the  Palestinian  people,  which  constitutes  a 
f lagrant violation of international law and conventions, 
in  addition  to  being  a  form  of  collective  punishment. 
Consequently,  it  affects,  inter  alia,  the  ability  of  the 
Palestinian National Authority to meet its obligations to 
public sector employees, as well as to the private sector.
While  the  decline  and  delays  in  donor  support 
continue  to  aggravate  the  fiscal  crisis  faced  by  the 
Palestinian National Authority, it should be made clear 
that  it  is  the  unjust,  illegitimate  Israeli  occupation  of 
the  Palestinian  territory  since  1967,  including  East 
Jerusalem, that is to blame for the existence of the fiscal 
crisis in the first place. The geographical fragmentation 
of  the  Palestinian  land  through  the  confiscation  of 
lands  and  destruction  of  property  in  connection  with 
the  expansion  of  Israel’s  illegal  colonial  settlements, 
its  continued  construction  of  its  expansionist  wall 
throughout the occupied Palestinian territory, including 
East Jerusalem; and the erection of a network of more 
than  500  military  checkpoints  all  contribute  to  the 
deprival  of  the  Palestinian  people’s  access  to  more 
than 60 per cent of their land and to the normal f low of 
socioeconomic life, including commerce and trade. That 
60 per cent of land holds the majority of the occupied 
12-64711
7
A/67/PV.54
territory’s  water,  agricultural  lands,  natural  resources 
and land reserves that form the natural capital necessary 
to sustainable development. Again, it must be reiterated 
that such Israeli measures and actions remain the major 
impediment  to  sustainable  economic  growth,  as  they 
hamper  both  public  and  potential  private  investment, 
raise costs and hinder economic cohesion.
At  the  same  time,  while  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power,  continues  to  deny  the  Palestinian  people 
sovereignty over their natural resources, it continues to 
unabatedly  exploit  those  very  resources.  For  example, 
more than 90 per cent of Palestinian water resources are 
exploited  by  Israel,  most  notably  for  use  by  the  more 
than  500,000  illegal  settlers  the  occupying  Power  has 
transferred  to  settlements  throughout  the  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  With  less  than 
10  per  cent  of  those  resources  left  for  Palestinian  use, 
average Palestinian water consumption is only 70 litres 
per capita per day, which is below the 100-litre threshold 
recommended  by  the  World  Health  Organization,  and 
much  less  than  the  average  300  litres  per  capita  per 
day  enjoyed  in  Israel.  Due  to  that  reality,  and  as  a 
consequence  of  mobility  restrictions,  only  35  per  cent 
of irrigable Palestinian land is actually irrigated, which 
costs the economy a staggering 110,000 jobs and 10 per 
cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).
The  immoral  and  illegal  Israeli  blockade  of  the 
Gaza  Strip  poses  another  immense  impediment  to 
achieving  sustainable  Palestinian  economic  growth. 
The  limited  access  of  Palestinian  entrepreneurs  to 
competitive  international  markets,  especially  for  the 
purpose  of  exporting  agricultural  goods,  continues  to 
discourage private-sector investment, which is a pillar 
of  economic  growth.  As  detailed  in  the  latest  report 
issued  by  UNCTAD,  Palestinian  exports  declined 
by  $136  million  in  2011,  to  reach  slightly  more  than 
$1 billion, while imports also declined by $434 million, 
to  reach  $4.2  billion.  Consequently,  the  Palestinian 
trade deficit increased in 2011 to $3.2 billion, causing 
a decline in GDP.
Indeed, 
the  socioeconomic  situation  of 
the 
Palestinian  people  in  Gaza  remains  dire,  with  the 
blockade adversely impacting the viability of all aspects 
of life. Economic, health, education and other societal 
indicators  reveal  the  magnitude  of  the  humanitarian 
suffering  that  has  been  deliberately  inf licted  by  the 
occupying Power on the Palestinian civilian population, 
in what definitely constitutes collective punishment on 
the scale of a war crime. 
We  are  thereby  obliged  to  reiterate  our  call  on 
the  international  community  to  exert  every  possible 
effort, including practical measures, to compel Israel to 
immediately  lift  its  dehumanizing,  unlawful  blockade 
of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  more  than  1.6  million 
Palestinians living there.
In  addition  to  hampering  economic  growth,  the 
Israeli  Government  regrettably  continues  to  impose 
trade  restrictions  that  make  the  Palestinian  economy 
dependent  on  Israel’s  economy.  Unable  to  access  the 
international  marketplace,  Palestinians  are  forced  to 
trade  with  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  which  makes 
the  State  of  Palestine  the  number-one  importer  of 
Israeli  products.  In  2011,  trade  with  Israel  amounted 
to  83  per  cent  of  total  Palestinian  trade,  with  83  per 
cent  of  imports  originating  from  and  through  Israel 
and  80  per  cent  absorbed  by  Israeli  markets.  Such 
high  dependence  deprives  the  Palestinian  economy  of 
more  competitive  sources  of  imports  and  markets  for 
exports,  and  heightens  its  vulnerability  to  the  Israeli 
business cycle.
To  conclude,  the  economic  and  humanitarian 
assistance  of  the  international  community  is  crucial 
but  not  enough.  Strengthening  that  assistance  in 
order  to  achieve  its  higher  objectives  requires  serious 
efforts  and  action  aimed  at  removing  the  tremendous 
obstacles  the  occupying  Power  places  on  the  ground, 
and  which  continue  to  undermine  the  efforts  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  its  leadership  to  fully  realize 
the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine  on  the 
basis  of  the  pre-1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital,  living  in  peace  with  all  of  its  neighbours, 
including  Israel.  If  the  international  community  truly 
aspires  to  see  the  two-State  solution  materialize  and 
observe  a  sustained  economic  growth  trajectory  and 
development for the Palestinian people, it must compel 
the occupying Power to end all its illegal measures and 
actions  and  finally  terminate  its  military  occupation. 
The  international  community  must  face  up  to  its 
responsibility and put pressure on Israel to abide by its 
legal obligations under international, humanitarian and 
human rights law because, after more than 45 years of 
occupation, it can no longer stand idly by while an entire 
people  continue  to  be  denied  their  inalienable  human 
rights  —  including  the  right  to  live  in  freedom  and 
dignity — and while their society is being deliberately 
devastated and debilitated.
Mr.  Al-Jarman  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The annual report of the Secretary-General on 
8 
12-64711
agenda item 70 (A/67/492) reveals the growing number of 
people in need of humanitarian assistance in many areas 
of the world, due to the increasing number of disasters 
caused  by  natural  phenomena,  climate  change  and 
continued conf licts and violence. Despite the solidarity 
and  quick  response  of  the  international  community 
in  dealing  with  such  disasters,  the  challenges  facing 
those conducting international humanitarian action are 
many  and  big,  demanding  more  and  more  resources, 
international effort and cooperation.
The  experiences  and  practices  of  some  countries 
in  responding  to  humanitarian  crises  underscore  the 
importance  of  building  and  strengthening  national 
and  local  capacities  and  preparedness  to  deal  with 
disasters  as  a  key  factor  in  reducing  human  losses 
and  achieving  quick  recovery,  as  stated  in  the  Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  (see  A/CONF.206/6)  and 
reaffirmed  in  the  outcome  document  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex).  In  that  regard,  the  United 
Arab Emirates emphasizes the necessity of integrating 
disaster  risk-reduction  strategies,  capacity-building 
and  quick,  efficient  response  and  recovery  into  the 
sustainable development plans of developing countries, 
as  well  as  allocating  sufficient  resources  to  that  end. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  attaches  great  importance 
to integrating strategies for disaster risk reduction and 
strengthening  local  capacities  into  its  comprehensive 
national  development  plans,  whereby  the  Government 
has  adopted  a  strategy  of  preventive  prediction  and 
early preparedness, establishing a national emergency, 
crisis and disaster management authority to ensure its 
implementation.
in 
the 
international  partnership 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  one  of  the  major 
participants 
for 
development and aid to countries dealing with natural 
disasters,  climate  change  and  armed  conf lict.  It  also 
provides  direct  and  immediate  humanitarian  relief 
assistance  to  such  countries,  as  well  as  humanitarian 
initiatives and global development projects implemented 
by the Government in coordination with relevant United 
Nations bodies and other international partners.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  was  rated  the  second 
highest donor of humanitarian assistance between 2009 
and 2012 in relation to gross domestic product (GDP), 
according  to  the  Financial  Tracking  Service.  Our 
official  development  assistance  contribution  for  2011 
totaled  0.22  per  cent  of  GDP,  of  which  8.1  per  cent 
was  allocated  to  humanitarian  development  assistance 
A/67/PV.54
in  the  form  of  grants  and  loans  for  humanitarian, 
charitable  and  development  programmes  in  more  than 
30 countries all over the world, based on the principles 
of neutrality and humanitarianism.
The United Arab Emirates is a major contributor to 
international  efforts  to  maintain  stability  and  advance 
development  in  countries  emerging  from  conf lict 
and  vulnerable  countries,  through  its  participation 
in  international  groups  involved  in  rebuilding  the 
capacities  of  developing  countries  affected  by  armed 
conf lict  and  natural  disasters  and  supporting  their 
economic  and  social  institutions  and  infrastructure. 
These  include  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Yemen,  the 
Group  of  Friends  of  Pakistan,  the  Contact  Group  on 
Piracy  off  the  Coast  of  Somalia,  and  the  international 
partnership  to  rebuild  Afghanistan.  The  United  Arab 
Emirates was also one of the first countries to respond 
to  the  earthquake  disaster  in  Haiti,  the  humanitarian 
crisis in Libya and the food crisis in the Horn of Africa.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  deeply  concerned 
about  the  deteriorating  economic  and  humanitarian 
conditions  of  Palestinians  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  due  to  Israel’s  continued  occupation  and 
its  policies  of  aggression  and  blockade,  especially  in 
the  Gaza  Strip,  which  has  been  subject  for  years  to 
a  siege  imposed  by  the  Israeli  occupying  forces,  as 
well  as  to  recent  brutal  attacks.  We  renew  our  call  to 
the  international  community  to  compel  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, to lift its blockade of the Gaza Strip 
immediately,  facilitate  the  delivery  of  humanitarian 
assistance  to  its  residents  and  end  its  occupation  of 
Arab  lands.  We  also  urge  donor  countries  to  continue 
their  aid  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  Government 
until the Israeli occupation of their land ends and their 
independent State is established.
is  committed 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
to 
continuing  to  provide  humanitarian  and  development 
assistance to the Palestinian people and the Palestinian 
Authority. It is one of the major contributors to current 
humanitarian  assistance  and  development  projects,  as 
well as to the direct budget of the Palestinian Authority. 
Our  contribution  in  2011  amounted  to  $34  million  in 
support of the Palestinian people and Government and 
development projects. In that context, we reaffirm our 
support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA) 
and  stress  the  importance  of  its  role  in  helping  the 
Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories. We 
also  emphasize  the  importance  of  allowing  UNRWA 
12-64711
9
A/67/PV.54
workers and aid easy access to the Palestinian refugees 
in  all  areas  of  its  operations,  which  will  require 
providing it with enough financial support to enable it 
to continue its humanitarian and development activities 
in the area.
Mr. Quinlan (Australia): The frequency of disasters 
and the scale of humanitarian need across the globe demand 
that  we  perform  and  coordinate  better  as  an  international 
community. In 2012, civilians continued to bear the brunt of 
armed conﬂ ict. Political solutions to conﬂ ict are obviously 
urgently needed, and respect for international humanitarian 
law is critical. We must make certain that we are united in 
our efforts to ensure that aid reaches those most in need and 
that civilians are protected from violence, wilful deprivation, 
exploitation and abuse. Australia is particularly concerned 
about  the  increased  number  and  frequency  of  deliberate 
attacks on humanitarian workers — a practice that is clearly 
unacceptable under international law and reprehensible by 
all moral standards. We are also concerned about the grave 
consequences of attacks against medical staff and facilities 
and the sick and wounded, which are detailed in the Health 
Care  in  Danger  report  of  the  International  Committee  of 
the Red Cross (ICRC). 
Current  violence  and  access  constraints  in  Syria,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  and  the  Sudan  are  cause 
for particular and serious concern. In Syria, humanitarian 
workers and health care facilities continue to be targets of 
violence. My own Minister for Foreign Affairs has advanced 
a  proposal  calling  for  a  commitment  from  all  sides  not  to 
target  medical  personnel,  medical  facilities  or  vehicles, or 
to block access to doctors, hospitals or emergency care. We 
also continue to call for immediate and unimpeded access to 
the delivery of humanitarian aid and life-saving assistance. 
We  appreciate  the  vital  work  being  undertaken  by  the 
United  Nations  and  all  humanitarian  organizations  on  the 
ground  in  Syria  under  extremely  difﬁ cult  circumstances. 
Obviously,  there  is  a  very  urgent  need  for  the  violence  to 
end and for a political solution to the crisis to be found. 
Australia  is  also  deeply  concerned  about  the  ongoing 
lack  of  access  for  humanitarian  agencies  in  the  Southern 
Kordofan and Blue Nile states of the Sudan. We call upon 
the  Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudan  People’s 
Liberation Movement-North to negotiate a solution for both 
sides to allow for the delivery of much-needed assistance. 
The humanitarian situation in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo has deteriorated to a point not seen for many 
years.  In  particular,  the  conﬂ ict  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
country has triggered an upsurge in the number of displaced 
people.  Across  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
there  are  now  2.4  million  internally  displaced  people, 
and  a  staggering  5.4  million  people  require  humanitarian 
assistance. Australia has been profoundly concerned about 
reports of widespread abuse of civilians, including murder, 
rape  and  the  forced  recruitment  of  children  by  armed 
groups.  We  are  equally  concerned  by  the  endemic  levels 
of  sexual  violence.  Such  acts,  perpetrated  with  the  intent 
of  terrorizing  and  displacing  individuals  and  populations, 
must be stopped and impunity for the perpetrators ended. 
Australia  is  a  long-time  supporter  of  the  Security 
Council  resolutions  on  women  and  peace  and  security, 
and  on  children  and  armed  conﬂ ict.  We  will  continue  to 
advocate  strongly  for  positive  outcomes  for  women  and 
children  during  our  term  on  the  Security  Council,  which 
begins next year.
Australia welcomes the calm in Gaza, which seems to 
be holding after the ceaseﬁ re announced on 22 November. 
We urge all sides to adhere to the terms of that ceaseﬁ re. We 
are concerned by United Nations reports that almost 65 per 
cent of the people killed in the Gaza conﬂ ict were civilians, 
and that many more civilians were injured. We continue to 
support  the  efforts  of  United  Nations  agencies  to  provide 
basic  services  and  support  for  Palestinians  in  need  of 
humanitarian assistance. We must stress that recent events 
highlight the compelling need to ﬁ nd a durable solution to 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conﬂ ict  through  a  negotiated  two-
State settlement, and for that to happen before the window 
completely closes. 
We  must  ensure  that  the  international  humanitarian 
system is ﬁ t for purpose. We welcome the efforts of the Under-
Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs,  Ms.  Valerie 
Amos, and the Inter-Agency Standing Committee to address 
the most critical challenges in coordination, leadership and 
accountability.  The  humanitarian  system  must  become 
more open and inclusive. It must reﬂ ect on its shortcomings, 
be  accountable  to  beneﬁ ciaries  and  learn  from  mistakes. 
The  system  also  needs  to  be  more  responsive  to  country 
and  local  leadership,  particularly  where  Governments  are 
willing and capable to help their citizens in crisis. 
We  see 
that  progress 
is  being  made,  and  we 
acknowledge  the  leadership  of  Under-Secretary-General 
Amos  in  particular  in  achieving  that  progress,  but  we 
believe  that  reform  risks  stalling  if  the  commitments 
made  by  the  principals  of  the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
Committee  do  not  translate  into  real  results  in  the  ﬁ eld. 
Humanitarian  agencies  need  to  demonstrate  how  they  are 
rolling out the Transformative Agenda reforms throughout 
all humanitarian responses. We encourage further attention 
to  be  paid  to  what  the  Transformative  Agenda  means 
10 
12-64711
for  complex  and  protracted  crises,  where  leadership, 
accountability  and  coordination  are  so  critical.  Australia 
expects  its  humanitarian  partners  to  fully  support  the 
Transformative Agenda and will hold them accountable for 
implementing the reforms needed. 
The food and nutrition crisis in the Sahel region of West 
Africa demonstrates the importance of investing in longer-
term solutions that help communities to anticipate, respond 
to  and  recover  from  disasters.  Australia  welcomes  the 
steps  the  international  community  is  taking  to  implement 
humanitarian action that builds resilience and preparedness. 
We welcome the introduction of a three-year consolidated 
appeal 
in  Somalia.  A  multi-year  appeal  encourages 
longer-term  vision  in  a  context  where  humanitarian  need 
will  persist  for  some  time.  It  also  encourages  a  stronger 
focus  on  resilience  programming.  But  we  cannot  build 
resilience  through  humanitarian  programmes  alone.  We 
encourage  further  coordination  between  humanitarian 
and  development  agencies  and  strong  leadership  from  the 
United Nations to ensure such coordination is successful. 
Flexible  funding  from  donors  is  key  to  integrating 
disaster  risk  reduction  response,  recovery  and  resilience 
efforts.  Australia’s  approach 
to  humanitarian  and 
development  funding  is  ﬂ exible,  and  we  seek  to  take  the 
long-term  view.  Our  funding  to  disaster  risk  reduction, 
for  instance,  comes  from  both  our  humanitarian  and 
development  programmes,  and  at  2.3  per  cent  of  our  total 
ofﬁ cial development assistance, it is more than double the 
1 per cent target recommended by the Global Platform For 
Disaster Risk Reduction. 
We fund early recovery because we know it is essential 
to ensuring a smooth transition to longer-term development. 
It  is  a  very  simple  linear  equation.  We  continue  to  invest 
in  humanitarian  action  through  multi-year,  multi-million 
dollar  partnerships  with  the  Ofﬁ ce  for  the  Coordination 
of Humanitarian Affairs, the World Food Programme, the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNICEF, 
the Central Emergency Response Fund and the ICRC.
In concluding, we can only reiterate that, as 2012 draws 
to  a  close,  it  is  evident  that  stronger  action  is  needed  to 
protect civilians. We urge all fellow Member States to abide 
by  international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
law,  and  relevant  resolutions  designed  to  afford  civilians 
safety  from  conﬂ ict,  violence  and  wilful  deprivation.  We 
urge  a  special  focus  on  those  most  vulnerable  —  people 
with  disabilities,  women  and  children  —  and  we  urge 
redoubled efforts to make certain that the reforms promised 
by  the  Transformative  Agenda  are  actually  implemented, 
in  support  of  national  leadership,  to  ensure  effective  and 
A/67/PV.54
timely  humanitarian  response.  We  must  remind  ourselves 
every single day that millions of people in crisis are relying 
on us all to support them and to save them.
in  Syria, 
Mr.  Bonser  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  People 
continue to suffer needlessly in far too many contexts. 
The  ongoing  humanitarian  crises 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  the  Sahel,  the  Sudan, 
South  Sudan,  Somalia  and  Afghanistan  highlight  the 
continued need for effective international humanitarian 
responses.  In  the  face  of  increasing  humanitarian 
needs  and  shrinking  financial  resources,  the  United 
Nations  must  ensure  that  it  is  working  as  effectively 
and strategically as possible so that real results can be 
achieved for those most in need.
Progress  has  been  made  in  that  regard.  Under 
the  leadership  of  the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator, 
genuine  efforts  are  being  undertaken  to  improve 
humanitarian 
and 
coordination.  However,  much  work  remains  to  be 
done,  and  we  call  on  the  Coordinator  to  continue  her 
effective  leadership  to  ensure  that  those  reforms  lead 
to  substantial  improvements  in  how  the  international 
humanitarian system responds to humanitarian crises.
accountability 
leadership, 
(spoke in English)
Canada  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  deteriorating 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  eastern  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and by the forced displacement 
of  650,000  civilians  since  April.  We  unequivocally 
condemn  the  acts  perpetrated  by  the  rebel  group 
Mouvement  du  23  mars.  We  continue  to  call  for  all 
parties  to  respect  human  rights  and  to  allow  safe  and 
unhindered access to humanitarian assistance.
We 
remain  extremely  concerned  about 
the 
ongoing humanitarian crisis in Syria and its impact on 
neighbouring countries and the overall stability of the 
region.  We  recognize  the  immense  pressure  that  the 
inf lux of refugees is placing on refugee host countries 
and  communities.  We  commend  the  generosity  of 
neighbouring  States  —  Turkey,  Jordan,  Lebanon 
and  Iraq  —  that  have  welcomed  refugees  f leeing  the 
violence  in  Syria.  Their  generosity  is  born  from  a 
genuine spirit of humanitarianism.
Canada  applauds 
the  courageous  efforts  of 
humanitarian actors in Syria and in other humanitarian 
emergencies around the world who place their own lives 
at risk in order to provide life-saving assistance to those 
affected  by  crisis.  We  express  our  deepest  gratitude 
and  sincere  condolences  to  the  families,  friends  and 
12-64711
11
A/67/PV.54
organizations  of  those  who  have  given  their  lives  in 
order  to  save  others.  We  call  upon  the  Government  of 
Syria  to  allow  humanitarian  actors,  including  health 
care providers, full and safe access to those affected by 
the violence and to remove obstacles to the delivery of 
aid. The people of Syria must be safe from oppression 
and  attacks.  Civilians  denied  the  necessities  of  life 
require  humanitarian  assistance  to  meet  their  basic 
needs.  We  urge  all  parties  to  the  conf lict  to  fully 
respect  their  obligations,  especially  their  obligation  to 
take constant care to spare the civilian population from 
the effects of hostilities.
While  Syria  continues  to  capture  our  collective 
attention,  there  are  less  visible  crises  that  must  not 
be  forgotten.  The  humanitarian  situations  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Yemen, 
Colombia, Haiti and elsewhere all require our continued 
engagement  and  resolve.  That  is  equally  true  for  the 
protection  needs  of  women  and  girls,  who  continue  to 
be victims of sexual violence such as rape as a weapon 
of war; members of vulnerable religious minorities who 
are  persecuted  for  their  beliefs;  and  lesbians  and  gay 
populations,  who  face  violence  for  their  orientation. 
Political  will  and  commitment  are  required  in  order 
to bring attention and meaningful solutions to each of 
those severe and protracted humanitarian crises.
Canada  remains  committed  to  working  with  a 
range of actors, including United Nations humanitarian 
agencies,  member  States,  the  Red  Cross  Movement, 
non-governmental organizations and the private sector 
to strengthen the humanitarian response system and to 
create an enabling environment for humanitarian actors 
to save lives and alleviate human suffering.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  My  country,  Syria,  is  bleeding.  The  people 
of  Syria  are  the  first  victims  of  this  blood  that  has 
continually been shed. As I address the Assembly today, 
at  this  very  moment  there  has  been  an  explosion,  a 
martyr has been buried, a casualty is in pain or a family 
has been displaced. I regret having to relay the painful 
news that took place this morning. There was a terrorist 
explosion this morning in front of an elementary school 
in  the  city  of  Katana,  south-west  of  Damascus,  that 
killed dozens of children and their families. Yesterday, 
eight  other  terrorist  explosions  hit  other  regions  near 
Damascus, also causing dozens of deaths.
I will not dwell from this rostrum on the horror of 
those terrorist events and all those behind them, be they 
States or armed groups. I will simply note the intensely 
negative  impact  of  such  terrorist  acts  on  the  daily  life 
of our people, in particular the attacks on power plants 
and  the  theft  or  incineration  of  grain  stores  and  fuel. 
Bombing  of  gas  lines,  hospitals  and  schools  are  all 
aimed at destabilizing society and at sowing chaos and 
fear and terrorizing the civilian population.  
Allow me, Sir, to reiterate Syria’s firm belief in the 
importance  of  coordinating  humanitarian  assistance 
aimed  at  providing  affected  citizens  with  aid  in  such 
emergency  situations.  In  that  regard,  I  would  evoke 
resolution 46/186 (1991), which established the mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and which deserves our 
praise. I would like to reaffirm Syria’s full readiness to 
cooperate with all those who are working inside Syria 
in  accordance  with  the  obligations  of  that  mandate 
and with the principles expressed by that resolution to 
ensure the coordination of humanitarian aid provided by 
agencies of the United Nations in emergency situations, 
especially  those  guidelines  that  are  related  to  strict 
respect  for  the  principles  of  sovereignty,  territorial 
integrity,  national  unity  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  a  State,  in  accordance,  of  course, 
with the Charter of the United Nations.
Throughout  this  painful  crisis,  the  Government 
of  Syria  has  repeatedly  offered  to  provide  immediate 
aid  and  assistance  to  the  population  in  accordance 
with 
its  national  obligations  and  responsibilities 
under  international  law.  In  that  regard,  a  monitoring 
committee  has  been  established 
to  ensure  close 
attention to humanitarian conditions among the civilian 
population,  including  the  provision  of  food,  health 
services,  shelter  and  other  services  or  compensation 
for  damage  caused  by  armed  terrorist  groups.  Our 
Government has also helped to restore infrastructure in 
order to resume providing health and social services. We 
have also formed a high-level committee on relief aid to 
coordinate the provision of assistance to those affected. 
As a result of the Government’s enormous efforts under 
extremely  difficult  circumstances,  approximately 
547  temporary  shelters  have  been  opened,  using  all 
available Government buildings.
In  addition  to  the  national  effort,  the  Government 
of  Syria  has  coordinated  its  efforts  with  OCHA,  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  and  the  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross.  The  Syrian  Government  has  offered  to 
facilitate  all  efforts  to  help  those  affected  throughout 
the country to gain access to humanitarian assistance. 
12 
12-64711
We  have  also  completed  our  amended  plan  to  respond 
to  humanitarian  needs  inside  Syria.  The  Government 
has issued licenses to more than 80 non-governmental 
organizations to participate in United Nations response 
efforts,  and  continues  to  provide  a  wide  variety  of 
facilities to humanitarian aid workers. It has also issued 
licenses to OCHA to perform field visits in many areas 
inside Syria, without delay.
in 
six  meetings  of 
As  all  are  aware,  my  country,  Syria,  participated 
constructively 
the  Syria 
Humanitarian  Forum  in  Geneva.  However,  the  efforts 
of  the  Government  regarding  humanitarian  aid  face 
a  number  extremely  negative  obstacles,  including  the 
continued  funding,  arming  and  protection  of  armed 
terrorist groups in Syria by countries known to support 
terrorism in my country. In that vein, Mr. Peter Maurer, 
President  of  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross, has said that the situation in Syria is exceptional 
because  of  the  intense  battles  raging  throughout  the 
country,  and  also  because  of  the  involvement  of  some 
regional and international powers inside the country.
It  is  truly  ironic  that  the  Security  Council  has 
been prevented from issuing six press releases, despite 
the  fact  that  they  condemned  terrorist  bombings 
perpetrated by the so-called Jabhat al-Nusra, a terrorist 
group  affiliated  with  Al-Qaida  that  claims  to  have 
carried  out  approximately  600  attacks  since  October 
2011, including more than 40 suicide attacks, as well as 
other operations in which it has used small weapons and 
explosive  devices  in  central  urban  centres,  including 
the capital, Damascus, and the cities of Hama, Aleppo, 
Dar’a, Homs, Idlid and Dayr al-Zawr. Those attacks have 
killed  many  innocent  Syrians.  One  of  the  very  States 
involved in obstructing the six Security Council press 
releases has since added that same terrorist organization 
to its national list of terrorist organizations.
From  the  very  start  of  the  crisis,  we  have  worked 
to draw the attention of Member States to the presence 
of  armed  terrorists  interfering  in  our  internal  affairs. 
However, we ran up against a wall of political pride and 
ignorance  of  geopolitical  conditions,  and  large-scale 
media  fabrications  that  have  led  many  top  officials 
of  the  Organization  to  deny  reality  and  to  formulate 
mistaken  conclusions  regarding  developments  in  the 
Syrian crisis. As a result, the United Nations, starting 
with the Secretary-General and his top aides, including 
his  Special  Envoys  and  Representatives,  have  waited 
more  than  a  year  to  finally  and  timidly  acknowledge 
the  presence  of  what  they  call  a  “third  element”.  That 
A/67/PV.54
is  a  polite  euphemism  for  armed  terrorist  groups. 
It  took  them  another  six  months  to  progress  from 
admitting  the  presence  of  a  third  element  in  the  crisis 
to  acknowledging  the  presence  of  armed  groups,  and 
three more months, while the Syrian people continued 
to  shed  blood,  before  they  admitted  the  presence  of 
terrorist  organizations  related  to  Al-Qaida.  In  other 
words,  the  Syrian  people  suffered  from  terrorism  for 
21  months  while  they  waited  for  the  United  Nations 
and its Member States to heed their cries of agony and 
their tears caused by the actions of organized terrorist 
entities supported by foreign and, sadly, Arab, regional 
and international forces, as was clear from the start. 
The Syrian Government has fully cooperated with 
the  humanitarian  response  plan  that  it  signed  with 
OCHA.  Regrettably,  the  plan  has  been  poorly  funded, 
which  has  obstructed  the  joint  efforts  to  implement 
it  and  meet  humanitarian  needs.  While  the  Syrian 
Government  plays  the  primary  role  in  meeting  the 
basic  needs  of  its  citizens,  pledges  made  by  donors  in 
several  international  forums  and  through  the  media 
have  not  been  fulfilled.  Proof  of  that  can  be  found  in 
the reports and statements of OCHA. The most recent 
of  these,  dated  10  December,  indicates  that  only  half 
of the necessary funding of the humanitarian response 
inside Syria has been received so far, while only 35 per 
cent of the funding necessary to respond to the needs of 
Syrian refugees has been supplied so far. It also notes 
that  the  World  Food  Programme  has  had  to  decrease 
the rations it distributes because of the lack of funding, 
leading  to  slow  implementation  and  the  inability  to 
meet the minimum humanitarian requirements of those 
affected by current events, and raising doubts about the 
sincerity of expressions of concern for Syrian citizens 
made by some countries. 
Moreover,  the  continued  imposition  by  some 
hegemonic  States  and  regional  groups  of  packages  of 
unilateral,  coercive  economic  measures  outside  the 
framework  of  international  legitimacy  has  greatly 
contributed to the deterioration of the living conditions 
of Syrian citizens. It has limited the ability to provide 
them  with  basic  services  and  obstructed  efforts  to 
import medicines, medical supplies and equipment, and 
the spare parts needed to ensure the continued operation 
and maintenance of public facilities. Furthermore, these 
packages of unilateral coercive economic measures have 
led, inter alia, to increases in foreign currency exchange 
rates,  resulting  in  reduced  purchasing  power  for  the 
Syrian lira and rising inf lation, which in turn has made 
it  harder  to  import  goods,  fund  investment  projects 
12-64711
13
A/67/PV.54
and  has  created  shortages  in  financial  resources.  This 
has  also  contributed  to  increased  unemployment  and 
poverty rates.
What  is  important  here  is  that  those  who  are 
imposing  these  coercive  measures  with  one  hand 
claim  to  offer  humanitarian  aid  with  the  other.  They 
are a symbol of political hypocrisy and deception. The 
States that are imposing these coercive measures want 
to transform the people of Syria from a productive and 
giving nation — who in recent years achieved economic 
growth and a renaissance that brought them food self-
sufficiency  and  allowed  them  to  export  much  of  their 
surplus  to  many  parts  of  the  world  —  into  a  people 
surviving on aid.
The Government of Syria has called on those of its 
people who have been forced by difficult circumstances 
to  leave  the  country  for  neighbouring  States  to  return 
to their homes to live in dignity in their homeland, safe 
from  the  exploitation  of  terrorist  organizations  and 
those who support them, and from falling into the hands 
of  those  who  practice  humanitarian  blackmail.  The 
Syrian Government has allocated aid and assistance to 
all whose houses have been damaged in order to enable 
them to rebuild and go on with their lives in a dignified 
manner in their homeland. That is a civic right that the 
Government is obliged to uphold.
In that regard, I note that the disgusting manipulation 
of  many  Syrian  refugees  by  some  parties  is  barbaric 
and an insult to the integrity and dignity of the Syrian 
people.  Some  States  are  reporting  growing  numbers 
of  Syrian  refugees  in  their  territories;  meanwhile,  the 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  whom  we  thank, 
submitted  a  report  yesterday,  12  December,  noting 
that  only  40  per  cent  of  Syrian  refugees  in  the  region 
are  living  in  camps,  while  the  majority  live  mainly  in 
rented  residences  or  with  host  families.  There  is  no 
need to clarify that the remaining 60 per cent of Syrians 
who  were  forced  by  the  crisis  to  leave  their  homeland 
are  living  in  hotels,  spending  Syrian  money  that  is 
supporting the economies of the host States. In any case, 
and whatever the efforts being made by States hosting 
Syrian citizens, we thank them. But we urge and call on 
them to address this humanitarian issue in an objective 
manner, with integrity and a clear conscience, since the 
profits they are making by hosting Syrian refugees and 
citizens  are  much  greater  than  the  costs  they  claim  to 
be  carrying  because  of  the  presence  of  some  refugee 
camps.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  my  Government,  I 
would like to stress that the humanitarian crisis in Syria 
cannot be resolved by playing the political blame games 
that some Member States are indulging in so as to settle 
old or new scores. It cannot be resolved by fanning the 
f lames  of  ethnic  and  religious  discord  or  by  funding 
and protecting armed terrorists and encouraging them 
to perpetrate massacres, bombings and attacks against 
Syrian citizens. The solution to the crisis in Syria can 
be  achieved  through  adherence  to  the  principle  of 
offering humanitarian assistance — particularly under 
resolution  46/182  —  and  a  demonstration  of  political 
will  on  the  part  of  donor  States  and  other  bodies 
to  honour  their  pledges  and  end  policies  imposing 
unilateral,  coercive  economic  measures  that  chief ly 
affect and severely harm the Syrian people.
That  is  what  we  have  to  say  on  the  humanitarian 
level.  As  for  the  political  level,  Joint  Special  Envoy 
Lakhdar  Brahimi  is  making  welcome  efforts  in  that 
area, and his work enjoys international consensus. All 
the  Syrian  people  ask  of  the  so-called  international 
community is that it support the efforts of Mr. Brahimi. 
What  they  do  not  want  is  for  certain  parties  to  help 
him  publicly  while  secretly  undermining  his  work. 
We seek honest and objective help for our country, our 
Government, our people and the opposition so that we 
can reach the shores of safety.
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  Thailand  aligns  itself 
with the statement delivered earlier by the representative 
of Cambodia on behalf of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN).
My  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his comprehensive reports submitted under this agenda 
item. We also wish to express our sincere appreciation 
to  the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies,  particularly 
the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs, the inter-agency secretariat of the International 
Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction, 
the  Emergency 
Relief  Coordinator  and  the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
Committee  on  Post-War  and  Disaster  Reconstruction 
and Rehabilitation, for their untiring efforts throughout 
the past year in coordinating humanitarian and disaster 
relief assistance and their ongoing reform efforts aimed 
at achieving more effective humanitarian response and 
relief.
As  is  evident  to  all  of  us  and  highlighted  in  the 
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  again  this  year, 
humanitarian  crises  continue  to  be  among  the  biggest 
challenges  of  our  time.  We  are  witnessing  increases 
14 
12-64711
in the frequency, scale and intensity of disasters, both 
natural and man-made. Thailand will continue to work 
with  the  international  community  in  bringing  relief 
and  hope  to  those  in  need  of  assistance.  In  providing 
that assistance, we abide by the principles of neutrality, 
humanity,  impartiality  and  independence.  We  believe 
that national efforts within individual States’ territories 
are  of  primary  importance.  We  are  also  of  the  view 
that  appropriate,  adequate  and  timely  regional  and 
international  humanitarian  responses  are  essential 
to  support  such  national  efforts.  Thailand  therefore 
remains 
international 
partnership in this field.
committed 
to 
enhancing 
For  decades,  Thailand  has  contributed  to  global 
efforts  in  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief.  We  are 
proud  to  host  the  Asian  Disaster  Preparedness  Centre 
in  Bangkok.  For  the  past  25  years,  the  Centre  has 
advocated  and  promoted  disaster  risk  reduction  in  the 
region, while advocating closer cooperation with other 
regional  organizations.  In  our  region  of  South-East 
Asia, Thailand has served since March as the Chair of 
the  ASEAN  Committee  on  Disaster  Management.  We 
have  worked  closely  with  our  fellow  ASEAN  member 
States  towards  better-prepared  and  more  coordinated 
regional  mechanisms  for  humanitarian  response  and 
disaster  management  in  order  to  ensure  the  effective, 
adequate and timely mobilization of assistance.
Thailand  looks  forward  to  hosting  the  Second 
Asia-Pacific  Water  Summit  next  year.  The  Summit 
will  provide  the  opportunity  to  share  experiences  and 
best  practices  in  managing  water-related  disasters 
such  as  f looding,  drought  and  rising  sea  levels.  Since 
Thailand’s  unprecedented  f loods  last  year,  the  Royal 
Thai  Government  has  implemented  a  new  water-
management  and  f lood-prevention  system.  We  will 
continue  to  invest  in  developing  a  comprehensive 
system for a sustainable solution. We also stand ready 
to share our experiences with any international partners 
who wish to work with us.
Also  next  year,  Thailand  will  co-host,  together 
with the Republic of Korea, the third ASEAN Regional 
Forum  Disaster  Relief  Exercise  to  increase  the  civil-
military coordination of Forum participants in response 
to disasters. In 2014, Thailand will host the Sixth Asian 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction, 
at  which  a  regional  post-2015  disaster  risk  reduction 
framework  for  the  region  will  be  the  main  topic  of 
discussion.
A/67/PV.54
Allow me now to share some thoughts on the issues 
that we believe are important to advancing our common 
efforts  in  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance. 
First,  capacity-building 
to  any  success. 
Humanitarian  crises  hit  developing  countries  hardest, 
especially  affecting  civilians  in  areas  of  conf lict  and 
vulnerable groups. In such cases, what is needed most 
is  not  only  humanitarian  assistance  but  also  capacity-
building  at  all  levels  —  local,  national,  regional  and 
international.
is  key 
Capacity-building, in our view, encompasses many 
dimensions,  from  the  sharing  of  expertise  and  best 
practices to technical assistance, and from infrastructure 
development to technology transfer. Capacity-building 
should begin at the grass-roots level. In implementing 
our Strategic National Plan on Disaster Risk Reduction 
2010-2014, the Royal Thai Government has focused on 
capacity-building for local communities, matching their 
specific  local  needs  while  mobilizing  resources  from 
all sectors and contributions from all stakeholders. We 
fully  support  a  resilience  approach,  especially  for  the 
most vulnerable, as outlined by the Secretary-General 
in his report in document A/67/363.
Our  second  observation  is  that,  from  our  own 
experience  and  that  of  others,  Thailand  believes  that 
the  impact  of  natural  disasters,  including  loss  of  life 
and  livelihood,  can  be  significantly  reduced  through 
the  development  of  early-warning  mechanisms, 
preparedness, emergency response and relief capacities. 
From  prevention  to  disaster  risk  reduction,  there  must 
be  a  holistic  approach  and  an  integrated  disaster 
management system. Both require strong regional and 
international partnerships. Thailand therefore attaches 
great  importance  to  widening  and  deepening  of  such 
international cooperation. We therefore wholeheartedly 
agree  with  the  focus  the  Secretary-General  places,  in 
his report in document A/67/89, on the need to improve 
data  collection,  analysis  and  information-sharing  in 
order to ensure effective humanitarian responses.
Our  third  point  is  that  equitable,  predictable  and 
f lexible funding for humanitarian assistance is another 
important tool that would help ensure timely and cost-
effective  humanitarian  delivery.  Adequate  funding 
should be made possible through enhanced partnerships 
and strengthened financial mechanisms. Thailand fully 
supports  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund,  and 
we have therefore decided to increase our contribution 
to the Fund. We also welcome the progress made so far 
in the implementation of the management response plan 
12-64711
15
A/67/PV.54
following  the  five-year  evaluation,  as  indicated  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report in documentA/67/361.
Thailand  has  steadfastly  supported  the  Tsunami 
Regional  Trust  Fund  since  its  establishment  in  2005. 
It  has  now  been  renamed  the  Economic  and  Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific Multi-Donor Trust 
Fund for Tsunami, Disaster and Climate Preparedness 
in the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia. We hope that 
the  international  community  will  increase  voluntary 
contributions to the Fund.
Our fourth point is that disasters can set back hard-
gained  development.  With  our  experience  and  efforts 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
the  implementation  of  people-centred  development 
policies,  we  are  committed  to  working  with  our 
international  partners  on  our  post-2015  development 
agenda. Likewise, we would like to encourage Member 
States  to  include  the  adverse  impacts  of  disasters  in 
their national sustainable development plans.
My fifth and final point is that Thailand welcomes 
international 
the  cooperation  and  partnership  of 
to  promote  women’s  empowerment 
organizations 
in  disaster  risk  reduction.  Two  months  ago, 
in 
October,  the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  Ms.  Margareta 
Wahlström,  visited  Thailand.  There,  she  honoured  the 
Prime  Minister  as  a  leading  female  figure  in  disaster 
management  for  her  leadership  in  responding  to 
Thailand’s severe f looding last year, as well as for her 
commitment to gender equality. While in Bangkok, on 
13  October  Ms.  Wahlstrõm  also  attended  this  year’s 
event  to  observe  the  International  Day  for  Disaster 
Reduction,  under  the  theme  “Women  and  Girls —  the 
(In)Visible  Force  of  Resilience”.  It  is  our  fervent  hope 
that  the  constructive  role  played  by  women  and  girls 
in  humanitarian  assistance  and  disaster  relief  shall 
continue to be recognized and further enhanced.
Our consideration of agenda item 70 and the related 
draft  resolutions  provides  yet  another  opportunity  to 
collectively  ref lect  not  only  on  our  ongoing  efforts  in 
humanitarian and disaster relief assistance, but also on 
the  need  for  a  sharing  of  the  burdens  of  humanitarian 
crises  and  disasters.  Those  burdens  need  to  be  shared 
through  stronger  coordination  and  closer  partnership 
among  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and 
with  other  humanitarian  actors,  including  the  private 
sector and civil society.
Let me conclude by expressing Thailand’s deepest 
gratitude  to  all  the  men  and  women  on  the  ground, 
within  and  outside  the  United  Nations  system,  who 
work tirelessly to provide necessary humanitarian and 
disaster relief assistance around the world. As much as 
we  value  the  lives  of  people  affected  by  humanitarian 
crises  and  disasters, 
the  safety  and  security  of 
emergency  medical  teams,  rapid  first  responders  and 
search and rescue personnel, to name but a few, must be 
adequately addressed and ensured.
Ms. Saran (United States of America): The United 
States  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  strong  support  for  the 
international  humanitarian  system.  We  remain  deeply 
committed  to  working  with  the  United  Nations,  its 
Member States and other humanitarian actors to protect 
and assist vulnerable individuals caught up in conf lict 
or affected by natural disasters. During our 2012 fiscal 
year,  we  provided  over  $4  billion  in  humanitarian 
assistance to save lives and reduce suffering.
But  our  commitment  goes  well  beyond  our 
significant  financial  contributions.  The  United  States 
continues to play a leading role in the development and 
promotion  of  global  humanitarian  policies,  principles 
and  standards 
international 
humanitarian  system,  and  we  engage  robustly  and 
constructively  with  a  range  of  partners  to  create 
conditions  in  countries  around  the  world  in  which  aid 
can  be  delivered  in  a  timely  and  effective  manner  to 
those most in need.
that  strengthen 
the 
The 
latest 
report 
Secretary-General’s 
on 
humanitarian  trends  and  challenges  (A/67/89)  notes 
that at least 51 million people in 16 countries required 
humanitarian assistance during the past year. In 2012, 
humanitarian  crises  in  all  corners  of  the  world  tested 
the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  provide 
timely and effective assistance to individuals, families 
and communities struggling to overcome events beyond 
their control. 
Together, we must redouble our efforts to improve 
the capabilities and responsiveness of the international 
humanitarian  system.  In  particular,  we  must  strive  to 
enhance  the  United  Nations  leadership  in  the  field, 
broaden  and  strengthen  coordination  mechanisms, 
and  heighten  accountability  to  the  people  we  seek 
to  serve.  That  is  why  the  United  States  strongly 
supports 
the  Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee’s 
Transformative  Agenda.  We  urge  United  Nations 
agencies,  non-governmental  organizations  and  other 
humanitarian  actors  to  continue  to  work  on  and 
16 
12-64711
implement  the  various  elements  of  the  Transformative 
Agenda so that together we can help to make the system 
more coherent, coordinated and effective.
top-notch 
leadership  within 
We  are  particularly  pleased  with  some  of  the 
progress 
that  has  been  made  on  strengthening 
leadership.  As  we  have  noted  before,  no  international 
response involving the United Nations can be successful 
without 
the  United 
Nations  system.  We  welcome  the  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator’s  efforts  in  that  regard,  and  note  that  the 
United Nations has increasingly put forward candidates 
with  strong  humanitarian  experience,  although  room 
for  improvement  remains.  We  look  to  United  Nations 
agencies  to  demonstrate  leadership  by  doing  more  to 
put  forward  their  best  humanitarian  officers  to  serve 
as  resident  and  humanitarian  coordinators  for  the 
United  Nations  system.  Specifically,  we  continue  to 
strongly urge well-established United Nations agencies 
to  provide  as  many  of  their  high-performing  senior 
managers as possible as candidates for the humanitarian 
and resident coordinator pools.
Improved coordination at all levels is also essential. 
As  the  Secretary-General  notes,  that  requires  focus 
on  building  new  partnerships  of  all  kinds  for  more 
effective  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance.  We 
applaud  the  efforts  of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  in  that  regard.  The  United 
States is also committed to helping to build an inclusive 
system  that  is  responsive  to  new  actors  and  different 
approaches.  Those  new  lines  of  communication  and 
partnership  are  essential  to  meeting  such  challenges 
as  access,  resource  limitations  and  capacity  issues. 
We  welcome  opportunities  to  share  information  and 
expertise  with  a  wide  range  of  stakeholders  to  help 
advance  our  multilateral  approach  to  humanitarian 
assistance. 
Over 
the  past  several  years,  we  have  seen 
wider  agreement  among  United  Nations  agencies, 
non-governmental  organizations,  donors,  disaster-
affected  countries  and  others  on  the  need  for  greater 
accountability  when  it  comes  to  the  delivery  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  One  key  element  of  more 
rigourous accountability is the establishment of policies 
and  action  plans  that  improve  the  quality  of  data  and 
exchange  of  information.  The  United  States  supports 
the Secretary-General’s recommendation in that regard, 
and  is  committed  to  working  with  our  partners  to 
develop and adhere to common international standards 
for  the  exchange  of  data.  Such  efforts  will  help  to 
A/67/PV.54
facilitate  better  preparedness  and  a  more  effective 
response to emergencies.
the  past  year,  we  are  deeply 
As  we  look  back  at  the  humanitarian  response 
over 
troubled  by 
continuing  impediments  that  limit  or  block  access 
by  humanitarian  workers  to  vulnerable  populations, 
particularly those in situations of conf lict. The United 
States  also  remains  gravely  concerned  for  the  safety 
and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel.  We  continue 
to  see  cowardly  and  unjustifiable  attacks  against 
those  delivering  humanitarian  assistance.  We  strongly 
urge  that  timely  humanitarian  access  be  provided  to 
disaster-stricken  populations  and  that  attacks  against 
humanitarian workers cease. This year, we would also 
like  to  highlight  the  troubling  reality  of  deliberate 
attacks against medical personnel and facilities. Those 
despicable attacks are unacceptable and remind us that 
efforts need to be redoubled to promote the protection 
of the medical mission.
Finally, the United States would like to reaffirm its 
continuing  support  for  the  humanitarian  principles  of 
neutrality,  impartiality,  independence  and  humanity. 
Adherence  to  those  core  principles  provides  a  strong 
foundation  for  the  rapid  and  effective  delivery  of 
assistance that saves lives and reduces suffering during 
times of crisis. We urge the United Nations to continue 
its  efforts  to  promote  a  principled  and  needs-based 
approach to humanitarian assistance for the benefit of 
all those who find themselves in need of aid in times of 
conf lict or when natural disasters strike. 
Mr.  Nofukuka  (South  Africa):  First,  let  me 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive 
report  (A/67/89)  on  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the  United  Nations, 
including special economic assistance.
My  delegation  notes  with  appreciation 
the 
achievements made by the Office for the Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  in  furtherance  of 
strengthening  the  coordination  of  the  humanitarian 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations  under  the  leadership 
of the Under-Secretary-General and Emergency Relief 
Coordinator,  Ms.  Valerie  Amos.  We  have  also  noted 
the  progress  made  in  responding  to  humanitarian 
challenges,  but  of  course  there  is  always  room  for 
further improvement, especially in the area of gender-
sensitive  response  in  taking  care  of  the  needs  of 
women, girls and vulnerable groups in general. OCHA 
could  be  more  effective  if  Member  States  were  to 
continue their provision of predictable funds to support 
12-64711
17
A/67/PV.54
the  humanitarian  response  operations  of  the  Central 
Emergency Response Fund.
South  Africa 
recognizes  with  concern  an 
increase  in  humanitarian  vulnerability  as  a  result 
of  both  sudden-onset  natural  disasters  and  complex 
humanitarian emergencies. Since developing countries, 
especially in Africa, bear the brunt of those scourges, 
South Africa will continue to facilitate and contribute 
to  humanitarian  interventions  to  alleviate  human 
suffering and to protect the victims of natural disasters 
and conf lict.
to 
Regarding  disaster  risk  reduction,  we  urge  the 
international  community 
support  developing 
countries and to strengthen their national capacities for 
disaster relief and reduction, as well as to improve their 
preparedness to provide effective responses when those 
humanitarian  emergencies  strike.  More  investment  in 
building  early-warning  systems  and  the  resilience  of 
communities  through  disaster  risk  reduction  should 
be  prioritized.  The  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action,  as 
an  international  strategy  agreed  to  by  Member  States, 
remains  a  critical  guide  to  action.  To  that  end,  the 
transfer  of  disaster  relief  and  reduction  technologies 
and  expertise  to  developing  countries  remains  of 
paramount importance.
The  effects  of  climate  change  have  a  long-term 
negative impact and social and economic consequences 
in developing countries. In that regard, measures need 
to be taken to assist developing countries in mitigation 
of and adaptation to climate change.
The  Sahel  region  of  West  Africa  remains  a 
challenge to the international humanitarian community, 
as millions of people there are in need of assistance due 
to  droughts,  poverty  and  other  situations.  We  express 
our  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  international 
community  for  its  response,  and  urge  it  to  continue 
cooperating with the countries in that region. OCHA can 
assist the African Union in establishing its humanitarian 
resource allocation mechanism to mobilize and manage 
resources for the region.
targeted 
The  continuing 
threats  and  violent 
attacks  against  humanitarian  personnel  and  facilities, 
including medical personnel around the world, remain 
of  concern  to  my  delegation.  We  believe  that  it  is  the 
responsibility  of  States  to  provide  unhindered  access 
for  humanitarian  personnel  and  relief  consignments 
to  reach  vulnerable  populations.  A  critical  factor  in 
providing  such  an  enabling  environment  is  ensuring 
the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  emergency 
personnel, 
the  humanitarian 
principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality  and 
independence.
in  accordance  with 
In conclusion, my delegation is of the view that the 
international humanitarian community can enhance our 
efforts to provide humanitarian assistance in a manner 
that is faster, more predictable and well coordinated to 
eventually alleviate the suffering of millions of people 
affected  by  humanitarian  emergencies.  Cooperation 
and  solidarity  among  the  nations  of  the  world  in  this 
regard must be preserved and promoted at all times.
Mr.  Li  Baodong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his reports submitted under agenda item 70.
For  the  international  humanitarian  community, 
the  year  2012,  which  shall  soon  come  to  an  end,  has 
been far from tranquil; incessant natural disasters and 
regional  conf licts,  which  are  often  interconnected, 
have posed daunting challenges to global humanitarian 
response capabilities and relief resources, and seriously 
hampered 
the 
countries  concerned.  The  international  community 
should 
foster  close 
cooperation so as to respond to the increasingly grave 
situation  through  concrete  measures.  In  that  regard, 
China wishes to further highlight the following points.
the  socioeconomic  development  of 
immediate  action  and 
take 
First,  any  humanitarian  relief  operation  must  be 
premised  on  the  fundamental  principles  set  out  in 
resolution  46/182.  In  providing  humanitarian  relief,  it 
is imperative to abide by the fundamental humanitarian 
principles of the United Nations; respect the sovereignty, 
independence,  unity  and 
integrity  of 
recipient  countries;  comply  with  international  law 
and  the  laws  of  the  host  countries;  avoid  politicizing 
humanitarian issues; and ensure the non-militarization 
of humanitarian assistance.
territorial 
Secondly,  capacity-building  must  be  effectively 
strengthened as an essential step to relieve the pressure 
exerted  by  humanitarian  needs.  As  a  firm  supporter 
of  and  advocate  for  the  strengthening  of  capacity-
building  in  the  humanitarian  and  development  areas, 
China  believes  that  the  most  important  task  at  the 
moment  is  to  take  concrete  and  effective  measures 
to  address  the  specific  needs  of  different  countries, 
including increased investment, transfer of technology 
and  expertise  to  developing  countries,  and  enhanced 
infrastructure-building 
to  help  countries  affected 
18 
12-64711
in  particular, 
by  disasters,  developing  countries 
to 
strengthen  capacity-building  comprehensively. 
Humanitarian  needs  will  thereby  be  lessened,  root 
causes  for  the  deterioration  of  situations  will  be 
addressed,  and  the  people  affected  by  disasters  will 
really feel the benefit of capacity-building.
Thirdly,  building  partnerships  is  an  important 
way  to  enhance  cooperation  and  integrate  resources. 
With  ever-growing  humanitarian  needs,  humanitarian 
relief  actors  have  multiplied,  which  has  made  the 
establishment  of  partnerships  all  the  more  important. 
China  believes  that  three  issues  merit  our  attention  in 
building  effective  partnerships.  First,  the  leading  role 
of affected countries should be upheld, and any form of 
partnership must be built on the basis of equality, mutual 
benefit and respect for the will of the Governments of 
the countries affected. Secondly, well-functioning and 
effective  participation  and  coordination  mechanisms 
should be put in place to encourage effective cooperation 
and  communication  among  humanitarian  actors  in 
order  to  ensure  the  maximum  utilization  of  resources 
and  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  humanitarian  relief. 
Thirdly, the existing mechanisms and resources of the 
United  Nations  should  be  fully  utilized  in  playing  a 
coordinating and pivotal role in partnership-building.
Fourthly,  the  efficient  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations humanitarian system is an important guarantee 
of  effective  humanitarian  relief.  Over  the  past  two 
years, under the leadership of Under-Secretary-General 
Amos, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian 
Affairs  has  played  an  irreplaceable  role  in  appealing 
for  donations  and  coordinating  various  actors. 
China  commends  its  work  and  hopes  that  the  United 
Nations  humanitarian  system  will  further  improve  its 
mechanisms,  intensify  the  reform  of  its  humanitarian 
activities, increase the participation of Member States, 
improve management and enhance efficiency so that the 
United Nations may play a greater role in international 
humanitarian affairs.
As a developing country prone to natural disasters, 
China knows all too well the suffering disasters inf lict on 
the people affected. The Chinese Government therefore 
attaches great importance to international cooperation 
in  the  humanitarian  field,  actively  participates  in 
multilateral and bilateral humanitarian assistance, and 
shares  with  other  developing  countries  its  experience 
in  and  technologies  for  coping  with  natural  disasters. 
Since  the  beginning  of  the  year,  China  has  provided 
food assistance to Chad and other countries in the Sahel 
A/67/PV.54
region of Africa, and humanitarian assistance to Cuba 
and Syria, among others. China will continue to follow 
closely the humanitarian situation in the Sahel region, 
and  contribute  within  its  means  to  the  international 
humanitarian endeavour.
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  recent  increasing  frequency  of  natural 
disasters, coupled with the ongoing occurrence of man-
made  catastrophes  and  armed  conf licts,  confirm  the 
relevance  of  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance. 
The legal framework regulating United Nations activities 
in  the  humanitarian  sphere  remains  resolution  46/182 
and  subsequent  decisions  of  the  Assembly.  Russia 
actively  supports  unwavering  compliance  with  the 
principles established in the Assembly’s resolutions to 
govern the provision of humanitarian assistance. Such 
compliance is the only way to ensure their effectiveness 
and  the  confidence  of  Member  States  in  the  United 
Nations humanitarian sector as a reliable and efficient 
mechanism for coordinating humanitarian assistance. 
issues 
The  manipulation  of  humanitarian 
in 
order  to  achieve  political  objectives  is  unacceptable, 
especially in times of armed conf lict. It is contradictory 
to  the  principles  of  humanity,  partiality,  neutrality 
and  independence  in  the  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance,  and  is  not  conducive  to  mitigating  the 
suffering of populations. It only makes matters worse. 
We  have  studied  with  interest  the  proposals  of 
the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  the  humanitarian  response.  We  agree 
that  relevant  measures  should  be  geared  towards 
strengthening  coordination,  improving  accountability 
and  bolstering  civilian  leadership.  In  that  regard,  we 
stress  the  leading  role  of  the  Governments  of  affected 
States  in  initiating,  organizing,  coordinating  and 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  within  national 
territories. 
the  close 
interaction  between 
The  role  of  the  international  community  is  to 
complement the efforts of Governments in dealing with 
emergency  situations.  In  that  respect,  it  is  important 
to  strengthen 
the 
United  Nations  humanitarian  structures  and  Member 
States,  which  also  helps  to  boost  confidence  in  the 
Organization’s  humanitarian  work.  In  our  opinion, 
the key to enhancing the effectiveness of the response 
is  to  strengthen  humanitarian  capacities,  above  all 
at  the  national  and  local  levels.  In  that  respect,  we 
support  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  system  to 
improve  national  disaster  risk  reduction  mechanisms 
12-64711
19
A/67/PV.54
and  instruments,  including  by  ensuring  humanitarian 
preparedness  and  developing  early-warning  systems 
and emergency responses to natural disasters and man-
made catastrophes. 
Russia  implements  comprehensive  measures  to 
prevent and respond to emergency situations. In 2008, 
a national crisis management centre was created within 
the  Ministry  of  the  Russian  Federation  for  Affairs 
for  Civil  Defence,  Emergencies  and  Elimination  of 
Consequences  of  Natural  Disasters.  We  would  like  to 
see  such  centres  in  various  countries  come  together 
in a single global network in order to ensure the rapid 
exchange of information on natural risks and disasters 
and  the  coordination  of  the  activities  of  all  managing 
bodies  and  authorities  carrying  out  humanitarian 
activities in disaster zones throughout the world. 
Russia  attaches  great  importance  to  information 
resource  management  when  planning  a  humanitarian 
response. We believe that a special role could be played 
in that regard by partnerships among the various actors 
in  humanitarian  activities.  In  that  context,  we  call  on 
resident coordinators and/or humanitarian coordinators 
to  work  more  closely  with  the  Governments  of  the 
countries concerned to that end, on the understanding 
that  the  country  hosting  humanitarian  workers  is 
responsible  for  ensuring  their  protection.  We  believe 
that the exchange of information between Governments 
and  the  leaders  of  humanitarian  operations  genuinely 
contributes to bolstering the security of personnel and 
humanitarian missions. 
The  use  of  military  resources  in  contemporary 
United  Nations  emergency  response  operations  is 
becoming a reality. However, the practice of providing 
humanitarian assistance was intentionally conceived as 
a purely civilian activity, and we believe it necessary to 
preserve  its  civilian  nature.  We  are  in  favour  of  using 
military resources only as a last resort. The participation 
of troops in such operations should be in line with the 
principle  of  independence,  while  overall  coordination 
should  remain  with  the  national  civilian  structure 
and  the  United  Nations,  above  all  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA).  Our 
fundamental position is in support of the role of OCHA 
in  ensuring  that  the  civilian  nature  of  humanitarian 
assistance  is  maintained  and  carried  out  on  the  basis 
of  the  guiding  principles  laid  out  in  the  annex  to  the 
founding resolution 46/182.
Ms.  Chun  (Republic  of  Korea):  The  Republic  of 
Korea would like to express its sincere appreciation to 
the Secretary-General for his comprehensive reports on 
humanitarian  assistance.  I  would  also  like  to  reiterate 
the  Korean  Government’s  support  for  the  dedicated 
work of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian 
Affairs (OCHA), which plays a key role in coordinating 
international humanitarian assistance.
The 
in 
increase 
the  frequency  and  severity 
of  disasters,  conf licts  and  other  humanitarian 
emergencies,  in  particular  with  the  impact  of  climate 
change, has increased the need for closer coordination 
and collaboration among development and humanitarian 
actors. My delegation believes that it is critical that the 
United Nations play a leading role in the coordinating 
process. The United Nations should effectively introduce 
the  existing  coordination  mechanisms  to  new  players 
and,  at  the  same  time,  actively  promote  humanitarian 
principles and codes among humanitarian actors.
As  a  strong  supporter  of  the  United  Nations 
efforts  to  improve  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
assistance,  Korea’s  humanitarian  activities  are  carried 
out  in  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  and  other 
international  agencies.  In  addition 
increasing 
collaboration  with  the  Consolidated  Appeals  Process 
(CAP)  and  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund 
(CERF), Korea has participated in various donor support 
groups  and  committed  to  strengthening  partnerships 
with  humanitarian  assistance-related  United  Nations 
bodies,  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red Crescent Societies and the International Committee 
of the Red Cross. 
to 
If  the  international  community  is  to  adequately 
respond  to  the  increasing  humanitarian  needs,  it  is 
essential  to  build  stronger  partnerships  at  the  global, 
regional  and  national  levels.  Stronger  partnerships 
enable the humanitarian actors to gain access to areas 
and  people  that  would  otherwise  be  difficult  to  reach. 
This  also  has  a  positive  impact  as  local  populations 
become  more  engaged  in  projects  on  the  ground  as 
partners.
My delegation would like to stress that the United 
Nations  needs  to  take  a  greater  role  in  leadership  to 
facilitate the engagement of local partners by clarifying 
the functions of local non-governmental organizations 
and  identifying  their  comparative  advantages.  We 
encourage the United Nations to provide smaller national 
organizations with financial support by simplifying the 
procedures for granting access to pooled funds, such as 
CERF and CAP, and by strengthening the capacities of 
national staff.
20 
12-64711
The  Republic  of  Korea  will  continue  its  efforts 
to  expand  its  partnership  with  non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) by actively sharing information 
and  providing  NGOs  with  the  financial  support  they 
need  for  their  projects  to  respond  to  humanitarian 
emergencies.  The  Korean  Government  is  making 
efforts  to  reduce  the  administrative  burden  of  NGOs 
by  streamlining  the  reporting  process,  as  well  as  by 
providing multi-year funding to enhance the f lexibility 
and predictability of funding.
In  order  to  ensure  the  effective  delivery  of 
humanitarian  assistance,  we  should  create  a  more 
coordinated  platform  to  resolve  issues  of  overlapping 
in  delivery  between  humanitarian  and 
and  gaps 
development-related  agencies.  The 
importance  of 
establishing  a  link  between  humanitarian  assistance 
and development cooperation needs to be more widely 
understood.  We  need  to  take  a  cluster  approach  to 
ensure  an  integrated  response  among  humanitarian 
and  development  actors  based  on  the  comparative 
advantages of lead agencies.
As part of Korea’s commitment towards ensuring a 
coordinated approach between humanitarian assistance 
and development cooperation, the Korean Government 
plans  to  provide  Afghanistan  next  year  with  up  to 
$100  million  in  assistance,  half  of  which  will  be 
executed through United Nations development agencies 
and  other  actors  working  for  the  economic  and  social 
development of Afghanistan.
In making the best use of resources for humanitarian 
assistance,  well-informed  decision-making  based  on 
evidence  from  reliable  data  is  essential.  Making  basic 
data  available  to  humanitarian  partners  and  to  the 
public will ultimately strengthen efficient and effective 
coordination  and  response.  This  will  go  a  long  way 
towards  enhancing  transparency  and  accountability. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  strongly  supports  data-driven 
decision-making  and  welcomes 
international 
community’s  effort  to  develop  common  standards  in 
the field of data collection and analysis.
the 
Efforts  to  strengthen  disaster  risk  reduction  and 
disaster preparedness will prove to be just as important 
as responding to emerging crises. Disasters cause more 
damage  in  developing  than  in  developed  countries, 
thereby  exacerbating  poverty.  Since  being  prepared 
is  cost-effective  and  reduces  the  impacts  on  affected 
people  and  their  livelihoods,  we  need  to  continue  our 
efforts to bolster preparedness capabilities in disaster-
prone countries.
A/67/PV.54
Given 
the  varying 
level  of  preparedness  of 
different  actors,  a  comprehensive,  integrated  and 
holistic approach is essential for better preparedness. In 
particular, in order to avoid international fragmentation 
in  efforts  directed  towards  disaster  reduction,  it  is 
necessary  to  strengthen  global  coordination  between 
humanitarian  agencies  and  development  cooperation 
agencies.  Furthermore,  we  need  to  continue  our 
efforts  to  make  disaster  preparedness  and  disaster 
reduction  an  important  topic  of  discussion  within  the 
international  community.  By  actively  participating  in 
the  post-Millennium  Development  Goals  discussions, 
we should make disaster risk reduction one of our major 
development goals after 2015.
The  Republic  of  Korea  also  believes  that  regional 
cooperation  mechanisms  should  be  fully  integrated 
with  local  responses  to  disasters.  Korea  has  been 
actively  participating  in  regional  forums  on  disaster 
preparedness.  In  particular,  the  ASEAN  Regional 
Forum  (ARF)  has  been  instrumental  in  leading  the 
discussions on regional cooperation and in developing 
guidelines  and  systems  for  disaster  management 
cooperation at the regional level. The Republic of Korea 
will  therefore  gladly  co-host  the  2013  ARF  Disaster 
Relief Exercise with the Kingdom of Thailand in May 
2013,  as  the  representative  of  Thailand  mentioned 
earlier.  The  Exercise  will  highlight  civilian-military 
coordination  and  the  active  involvement  of  regional 
and global organizations in disaster relief. I believe that 
the  Exercise  will  make  a  substantial  contribution  to 
strengthening the multinational disaster relief capacity 
of the Asia-Pacific region.
In  closing,  the  Korean  Government  once  again 
expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  unrelenting  efforts 
of OCHA to save lives and alleviate human suffering, 
and  would  like  to  reaffirm  our  strong  support  for  its 
work.  We  will,  as  always,  continue  to  strengthen  our 
cooperation with OCHA, all Member States and other 
humanitarian  partners,  and  stand  ready  to  do  our  part 
in  providing  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  countries 
affected by disasters and conf licts. 
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  excellent  reports.  We  endorse  his  analysis  of 
the  challenges  facing    humanitarian  action,  which 
emphasizes  the  need  to  strengthen  the  leadership, 
coordination  and  accountability  of  the  international 
humanitarian response. He can count on Switzerland’s 
full support for his recommendations.
12-64711
21
A/67/PV.54
The United Nations humanitarian response system 
lies at the heart of all efforts to coordinate humanitarian 
action based on the principles of humanity, impartiality, 
neutrality  and  independence.  However,  the  context  in 
which such action is needed changes continuously. The 
response  must  be  able  to  adapt  to  new  challenges  in 
order to be more effective and meet the needs of crisis-
affected  populations.  To  this  end,  institutional  and 
operational  changes  must  be  made,  in  particular  on 
three specific points that I would like to address in this 
debate.
First, there is a need for a more inclusive system and a 
broadening of partnerships. Strengthened collaboration 
with regional and local structures is essential to enabling 
affected States to be better prepared for risks related to 
disasters  and  crises.  The  consequences  of  these  risks 
have indeed shown the need to make the communities 
concerned  more  resilient  so  that  they  can  be  at  least 
somewhat  less  dependent  on  emergency  aid.  In  order 
to  break  the  vicious  circle  of  chronic  humanitarian 
aid,  better  coordination  is  needed,  especially  between 
humanitarian and development actors. The links among 
development, early recovery, risk reduction, resilience, 
preparedness  and  prevention  are  well  known  and 
equally relevant to humanitarian aid and development.
At 
time, 
the  same 
the  development  of  new 
partnerships  with  non-traditional  donor  Governments, 
regional organizations, non-governmental organizations 
and the private sector will strengthen and complement 
the  United  Nations  humanitarian  system.  Flexible 
cooperation  mechanisms  must  be  put  in  place  in  the 
framework of these new partnerships in order to ensure 
that all the actors involved are on the same page. Such 
mechanisms  must  be  based  on  a  transparent  sharing 
of  information  and  appropriate  communication.  Each 
stakeholder has its own comparative advantage in terms 
of skills, and such complementarity should be exploited 
in a spirit of trust, respect and solidarity.  
reports.  By 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Secondly,  Switzerland  would  like  to  highlight  the 
recommendations made in the  Transformative Agenda 
of  the  Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee,  mentioned 
in 
focusing 
primarily  on  strengthening  leadership,  coordination 
and  accountability  to  the  affected  populations,  this 
instrument aims to improve collective response efforts 
and  to  strengthen  the  impact  of  humanitarian  aid, 
in  particular  through  better  strategic  planning.  The 
Transformative  Agenda,  which  was  adopted  a  year 
ago,  should  now  be  considered  the  basis  on  which 
these  objectives  can  be  achieved,  enabling  United 
Nations agencies to fulfil their mission on behalf of the 
affected  populations  in  the  spirit  of  delivering  as  one. 
We therefore call on those agencies to strengthen their 
collective commitment to this process and to implement 
on the ground the intentions that have been declared at 
the global level. 
Thirdly  and  finally,  Switzerland  recall  that,  if 
humanitarian actors are to be able to fulfil their mission 
to save human lives, they must have rapid and unimpeded 
access  to  the  victims  of  crises.  Access  to  populations 
in  need  is  an  indispensable  prerequisite  for  effective 
humanitarian  action  and  the  primary  responsibility 
of  affected  States.  Full,  rapid  and  unimpeded  access 
is  essential  to  the  delivery  of  goods  and  personnel  to 
where they are needed, the distribution of humanitarian 
goods  and,  above  all,  the  provision  of  health  services. 
It enables the affected populations to benefit fully from 
the assistance and services made available to them.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive 
reports,  which  provide  a  sound  framework  for 
further  deliberation  on  the  issue  of  strengthening 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations.  I  would  also  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  Under-Secretary-General  and  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator  Valerie  Amos  and  her  team  for  their 
leadership  and  unwavering  efforts  in  coordinating  the 
provision of humanitarian assistance to those who need 
it most.
  Malaysia  commends 
the  Secretary-General’s 
action  agenda,  which  provides  a  five-year  timeline 
for  humanitarian  organizations 
to  agree  on  and 
implement  measures  to  increase  their  effectiveness 
and  transparency. We  also  support  the  Transformative 
Agenda  process  led  by  the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
Committee  for  improving  the  quality  of  leadership, 
strategic  planning,  accountability  and  coordination 
mechanisms  in  humanitarian  response.  Indeed,  the 
current  challenges  around  the  world  of  increased 
climate-related natural disasters, conf licts and complex 
emergencies  require  dynamic  adjustments  and  urgent 
attention  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member States.
It  has  been  more  than  20  years  since  resolution 
46/182  was  adopted,  setting  a  fundamental  structure 
for  the  coordination  of  United  Nations  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance.  However,  as  humanitarian 
22 
12-64711
needs  evolve  over  time,  the  current  system  has  not 
adapted  quickly  and  f lexibly  enough  to  meet  new 
realities. There is thus a need to build a more inclusive 
global humanitarian system, with stronger relationships 
at the global, regional and national levels.
involvement 
through 
Malaysia’s 
involvement 
in  humanitarian  and 
disaster  relief  assistance  is  based  on  a  three-pronged 
approach:  Government-to-Government,  either  through 
bilateral  assistance  or  cooperation  in  multilateral 
forums; 
non-governmental 
organizations;  and  people-to-people  participation. 
At  the  multilateral  level,  Malaysia  is  one  of  the  hubs 
housing  the  United  Nations  Humanitarian  Response 
Depot (UNHRD) in Subang. UNHRD is a preparedness 
tool  supporting  the  strategic  stockpiling  efforts  of 
United  Nations, 
international,  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  and  reinforcing  the 
capacity of the humanitarian community to respond to 
emergencies.  It  also  serves  as  a  first-line  response  to 
emergencies  through  an  efficient  mechanism  that  can 
provide f lexible, sustainable and scalable facilities and 
services for timely and cost-effective delivery of items 
and  assistance  to  humanitarian  organizations  in  the 
South-East  Asian  region.  The  Malaysian  Government 
has  agreed  to  contribute  $1  million  annually,  in  the 
form of a grant, to cover the centre’s operating costs.
Malaysia welcomes the recommendations contained 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  improving 
responses  to  natural  disasters.  Lessons  learned  from 
the  response  to  recurrent  humanitarian  crises  have 
underscored  the  importance  of  building  communities’ 
resilience to shocks by addressing the physical, social, 
economic and environmental elements that make large 
numbers of people vulnerable. We agree that a resilience 
approach is key to addressing recurrent crises. 
The importance of a resilience-based approach was 
set out in the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015: 
Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to 
Disasters (see A/CONF.206/6). Malaysia is committed 
to  disaster  risk  reduction  and  will  continue  its  efforts 
towards  implementing  the  priority  areas  of  the  Hyogo 
Framework. We are aware that building resilience over 
the  long  term  is  a  Government  responsibility  that  is 
supported  by  development  programming.  Malaysia 
will  thus  continue  to  work  closely  with  the  private 
sector,  national  institutions,  academicians  and  the 
non-governmental sector to ensure that we put in place 
the  appropriate  implementation  plans  for  disaster  risk 
A/67/PV.54
reduction  and  building  resilience,  as  outlined  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report.
to 
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  assistance 
the  Palestinian  people 
(A/67/84).  I  wish  to  reaffirm  Malaysia’s  commitment 
to  providing  assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people  in 
helping them to meet their needs. We take note the fact 
that additional support is urgently needed for the core 
budget of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for  Palestinian  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA), 
which  faces  a  shortfall  of  $70  million  for  2012.  In 
that  regard,  Malaysia  made  a  one-off  contribution 
of  $200,000  to  UNRWA  in  November.  Taking  into 
account the latest appeal and UNRWA’s acute financial 
situation,  the  Malaysian  Government  has  pledged  an 
additional  $1  million  to  help  the  Palestinians  affected 
by  Israel’s  recent  military  aggression  in  Gaza.  This 
additional  contribution  was  announced  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur on 3 December, 
and  is  part  of  our  country’s  long  history  of  continued 
assistance  to  Palestine  and  its  people,  following  more 
than 30 years of annual contributions to UNRWA.
Malaysia  reiterates  its  support  for  the  important 
work  done  by  UNRWA  in  assisting  the  Palestinian 
people in the occupied territories. We also urge donor 
countries to continue their financial assistance so that 
UNRWA  can  effectively  carry  out  its  development 
activities in the region. The international community’s 
continued  political  commitment  requires  it  to  show 
solidarity  through  financial  commitments  as  well. 
As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  states,  the  United 
Nations will continue to work towards the realization of 
a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle 
East. Malaysia hopes and prays for a quick and lasting 
solution to this historical injustice.
The  Government  of  Malaysia  is  of  the  view 
that  dealing  with  disasters  requires  a  holistic,  full-
spectrum  approach  at  the  response  stage,  but  also  one 
that  proceeds  from  effective  disaster  risk-reduction 
strategies.  Nonetheless,  Malaysia  will  continue  to 
extend  its  humanitarian  assistance,  whether  financial 
or  by  deploying  humanitarian  and  emergency  relief 
teams, within its means, to disaster-affected countries. 
We hope that such humanitarian assistance will lessen 
the burden faced by some of the victims and assist them 
in their hour of need.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  It  is  my  privilege 
to  participate  in  this  very  important  debate.  We 
appreciate  the  leadership  provided  by  Emergency 
12-64711
23
A/67/PV.54
Relief  Coordinator  Valerie  Amos  to  the  international 
humanitarian effort.
The Secretary-General’s report (A/67/89) mentions 
massive economic damage caused by last year’s natural 
disasters.  As  a  result  of  those  disasters,  an  increasing 
number  of  people  require  humanitarian  assistance 
worldwide. While we cannot control natural disasters, 
we  can  reduce  their  impact  and  the  devastation  that 
they  cause.  That  requires  an  efficient  international 
and  national  emergency  response  system,  capable  of 
handling large-scale disasters.
immediate 
The recent appearance of Hurricane Sandy showed 
the  devastating  impact  of  a  large-scale  disaster,  even 
in  one  of  the  most  developed  countries  of  the  world. 
The  affected  communities  took  days  to  emerge  from 
the  disaster’s 
impact.  Such  situations 
become even more challenging when a natural disaster 
strikes  a  developing  country.  The  immediate  tasks  in 
the aftermath of such disasters are relief and recovery. 
In  the  long  term  we  have  to  focus  on  the  equally 
pressing areas of rehabilitation and reconstruction. We 
have  to  come  up  with  strategies  that  will  restore  and 
generate  jobs  and  repair  damage  to  the  environment. 
We 
the  Secretary-General’s 
observation  that  there  is  a  need  for  more  investment 
in building community resilience through disaster risk 
reduction  and  for  a  long-term,  development-oriented 
process.
therefore  agree  with 
Pakistan  has  experienced  major  humanitarian 
challenges  in  the  past  few  years,  affecting  millions 
of  people,  from  north  to  south,  from  east  to  west. 
Infrastructure,  houses  and  businesses  worth  billions 
of dollars have been destroyed. The nation of Pakistan 
has  faced  the  challenges  with  courage,  resilience 
and  ingenuity,  but  we  are  most  grateful  to  the  United 
Nations  system  and  the  international  community  for 
their help and support in responding to those disasters. 
The  valuable  experience  we  have  accumulated  in 
the course of multiple catastrophes has taught us both 
self-reliance  and  ways  to  work  with  the  international 
community  in  a  synergetic  way.  It  has  also  made  us 
acutely aware of the need to identify gaps and redress 
deficits in order to respond more effectively to disasters 
in  the  future.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight 
our  key  messages  and  observations.  We  should 
collectively — especially in regions where catastrophes 
strike — tap into local resources in order to save funds 
and  to  contribute  to  long-term  development.  Trust 
among  donors,  international  humanitarian  actors  and 
affected  States  should  be  built.  Capacity-building  for 
domestic preparedness should be enhanced. 
We  must  ensure  that  all  humanitarian  actors  are 
subject  to  accountability,  especially  in  the  matter  of 
delivery  on  the  ground.  The  work  of  humanitarian 
actors should conform to host community agreements. 
We  need  to  improve  dialogue  between  the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA) 
and  developing  countries,  especially  those  that  have 
experienced humanitarian emergencies. United Nations 
reporting  mechanisms  should  remain  cognizant  of  the 
differences  among  situations  that  are  not  comparable. 
Politicization  of  humanitarian  relief  work  should  be 
avoided. The safety and security of humanitarian actors 
should be ensured. 
The  humanitarian  landscape  has  changed  in  the 
past  few  years  as  a  result  of  an  increasing  number  of 
large-scale disasters, the greater involvement of actors 
that cannot be strictly termed humanitarian, the greater 
involvement  of  the  global  South  in  humanitarian 
work,  improved  disaster  preparedness  in  developing 
countries,  and  new  assessment  tools  being  developed 
by  OCHA.  These  developments  require  increased 
dialogue  between  OCHA  and  Member  States, 
especially  developing  countries,  as  well  as  among 
Member States. In that regard, the Secretary-General’s 
focus  on  building  a  more  global,  accountable  and 
robust humanitarian system under his five-year agenda, 
including by convening a world humanitarian summit, 
will  help  provide  an  opportunity  to  share  knowledge 
and define a way forward for our future humanitarian 
agenda.
Mrs.  Mørch  Smith  (Norway):  Conf licts  and 
disasters today are increasingly complex. Humanitarian 
principles  are  being  challenged  in  a  number  of  ways, 
and  humanitarian  access  is  becoming  more  and  more 
difficult. Those issues have been high on the agenda of 
the United Nations this fall, ref lecting the situation on 
the ground in a number of concrete country situations.
We  see  on  a  daily  basis  that  civilians  are  affected 
by  armed  conf lict,  whether  directly,  suffering  death, 
injury,  rape  and  forcible  displacement,  or  indirectly, 
due  to  increases  in  disease,  hunger  and  malnutrition. 
In  countries  such  as  Syria,  Mali,  Afghanistan,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Sudan  and 
Somalia,  humanitarian  aid  is  being  provided  in    very 
constrained conditions. Difficult security situations or 
24 
12-64711
A/67/PV.54
lack of acceptance by the parties to the conf lict limit or 
even prevent the delivery of aid to people in dire need. 
The  result  is  that  the  civilian  populations  have 
to  f lee  in  order  to  secure  vital  help.  Being  internally 
displaced or a refugee is dangerous. Vulnerable people 
often become more vulnerable when they have to leave 
their  homes,  and  are  thus  more  likely  to  suffer  abuse, 
including  sexual  violence,  from  warring  parties  and 
criminal gangs. It is therefore vital to strengthen efforts 
to ensure that more civilian victims of war and conf lict 
receive  protection  and  assistance  as  close  to  home  as 
possible.
Norway  is  particularly  concerned  by  the  fact 
that  increasing  numbers  of  health-care  workers  and 
hospitals are being attacked and threatened by warring 
parties.  An  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 
study  of  16  countries  over  a  two-year  time  span  has 
identified no less than 644 violent incidents that affected 
opportunities to provide or receive health care. The use 
of  explosive  weapons,  the  destruction  of  ambulances, 
and  kidnappings  and  killings  of  health-care  personnel 
are just some of the examples mentioned.
One example is from Somalia, where a bomb killed 
more  than  20  people,  including  two  doctors  and  a 
number of medical students, at a graduation ceremony 
in  Mogadishu  in  December  2009.  Another  example  is 
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where an 
estimated  40,000  deaths  per  month  are  due  to  easily 
treatable  diseases.  The  main  reason  those  people  are 
not receiving treatment is the lack of security due to the 
armed conf lict.
At  the  same  time,  we  know  that  the  normative 
framework  is  in  place.  International  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  law  for  the  protection  of  civilians 
in  armed  conf lict  and  other  situations  of  violence 
is  comprehensive  and  relevant.  The  right  to  health 
is  enshrined  in  human  rights  law.  The  protection  of 
medical  missions  in  armed  conf lict  is  highlighted  in 
international  humanitarian  law.  The  problem  is  not 
law, but the lack of implementation — the lack of both 
understanding of and respect for the law.
It is necessary to remind parties to conf licts about 
their  responsibilities  with  regard 
international 
humanitarian  law.  We  must  engage  States  that  have 
inf luence  over  parties  to  conf licts  to  remind  them 
of  and  insist  they  honour  commitments  to  respect 
international  humanitarian  law  and  to  protect  health 
workers, hospitals and ambulances.
to 
Norway  is  determined  to  strengthen  our  own 
humanitarian  policy  in  this  matter  and  to  work  with 
partners  to  enhance  the  protection  of  health  facilities 
and  personnel  in  areas  of  conf lict.  We  will  work  to 
bring  countries  together  across  regional  and  political 
divides  to  move  that  agenda  forward  so  as  to  reduce 
suffering in conf licts and other emergencies.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  for  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee.
Members  will  recall  that,  at  its  42nd  plenary 
meeting,  on  28  November,  the  General  Assembly 
agreed  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until  Thursday,  13  December.  However,  I  have  been 
informed  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Second  Committee 
that the Committee requests an additional extension of 
its work to Friday, 14 December, in view of the fact that 
such an extension would facilitate reaching consensus 
on the pending draft resolutions before it.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until Friday, 14 December?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
12-64711
25
