United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
39th plenary meeting
A/67/PV.39
Ofﬁ cial Records
Thursday, 15 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Schaper 
(Netherlands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda items 30 and 117 (continued)
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/67/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to 
thank  Ambassador  Hardeep  Singh  Puri,  President  of 
the  Security  Council,  for  presenting  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/67/2) 
at  the  preceding  meeting.  I  would  also  like  to  convey 
our  appreciation  to  the  delegation  of  Colombia  for 
coordinating  the  preparation  of  the  introduction  to 
the report,  a process that also involved a consultative 
meeting with the general membership.
Pakistan  supports  the  efforts  to  improve  the 
analytical and qualitative value of the Council’s annual 
report.  The  statistical  data  and  other  information 
contained  in  the  report  is  a  useful  compendium  for 
quick reference and an overview of the Council’s work 
during  the  reporting  period.  We  appreciate  the  hard 
work of the Secretariat in that regard.
The  interest  and  active  participation  in  today’s 
debate  confirm  the  report’s  value.  Of  course  there  is 
room to enrich and sharpen its analytical content. The 
general  membership  closely  follows  the  Council’s 
proceedings.  Today  therefore  presents  an  opportunity 
to  review  and  comment  on  the  Council’s  performance 
in  carrying  out  its  primary  responsibility  to  maintain 
international peace and security.
The report shows the range of the Security Council’s 
agenda,  from  country-specific  to  regional  situations, 
from  terrorism  to  non-proliferation.  It  also  covers 
thematic issues such as the rule of law, the protection of 
civilians, women and peace and security, children and 
armed conf lict — issues that cut across many situations 
on the Council’s agenda.
Peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  have  proved  to 
be  effective  tools  for  the  Council  to  deal  with  various 
conf lict  and  non-conf lict  situations.  Sierra  Leone  and 
Burundi are success stories. We have witnessed progress 
in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire. As a major participant in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions,  Pakistan  is 
proud of its own contribution to international efforts in 
those situations and elsewhere in Africa. 
Recently,  we  have  also  seen  some  setbacks.  The 
Council  has  been  trying  to  redress  the  difficulties 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  the  recurring  problems  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and the eruption of 
the crisis in Mali. The interplay of the situation in Mali 
with the wider Sahel region has received the Council’s 
close attention. All of those processes have reinforced 
comprehensive and holistic approaches underpinned by 
regional cooperation and international support.
The Council’s sustained engagement with regional 
organizations contributed to the positive developments 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-59231 (E)
*1259231*
A/67/PV.39
in  Somalia.  The  result  is  regional  consensus  and 
cohesion  on  a  situation  that  had  been  abandoned  as 
intractable.  The  African  Union  has  worked  in  tandem 
with the Security Council to resolve outstanding issues 
between the Sudan and South Sudan.
The  Council’s  continued  engagement  with  Haiti 
remains crucial. The swift movement towards stability 
in  Timor-Leste  has  enabled  the  country  to  graduate 
from  the  Council’s  agenda.  We  in  the  United  Nations 
can  all  take  pride  in  that  achievement.  It  is  a  job  well 
done.  In  Afghanistan,  the  United  Nations  plays  an 
important role, and it is poised to play an even greater 
role in the years to come, especially after 2014.
The Council has been deliberating on the situation 
in the Middle East, a region where the quest for peace 
and stability continues. The situation in Syria has added 
new  complexities  and  uncertainties  to  the  regional 
situation. For its part, Pakistan will continue to support 
efforts for a peaceful resolution of the Syrian conf lict, 
one that ref lects the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian 
people.  It  is  the  international  community’s  collective 
responsibility  to  prevent  escalation  of  the  Syrian 
situation and its spillover to neighbouring countries.
issue,  although 
It  is  regrettable  that  there  has  been  no  movement 
on the agreed two-State solution for the long-standing 
Palestinian 
it  has  been  debated 
frequently in the Council. It is ironic that the Council’s 
own  resolutions  have  not  been  respected,  most 
notably those on the construction of settlements in the 
occupied territory and the blockade of Gaza. We have 
consistently  urged  Council  members  to  demonstrate 
greater  political  will  to  ensure  implementation  of  the 
Council’s  resolutions.  Pakistan  supports  a  sovereign, 
independent,  viable  and  contiguous  State  of  Palestine, 
living side by side with all its neighbours in peace and 
security.
Divisive  approaches  and  positions  undermine  the 
Council’s  authority  and  vitiate  the  environment  for 
decision-making.  Pakistan  believes  that  unity  within 
the  Council  will  enable  it  to  take  effective  collective 
action.  We  support  efforts  to  foster  consensus  and 
promote  cohesiveness  in  the  Council,  so  that  we  can 
work  for  the  overarching  goal  of  international  peace 
and security.
The  views  of  the  general  membership  on  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  are  of  fundamental 
importance  for  the  Council  itself  in  reviewing  its 
performance 
improvements  where 
and  making 
required.  Apart  from  this  annual  debate,  the  general 
membership should have more opportunities to give its 
feedback throughout the year.
As  a  current  non-permanent  member,  serving  for 
the  seventh  time  in  the  Council,  we  can  say  candidly 
that there is room for improving the Council’s working 
methods,  particularly  with  regard  to  transparency 
and  inclusiveness.  Non-permanent  members,  who  are 
elected  by  the  General  Assembly  and  are  therefore 
accountable to the general membership, have an added 
responsibility to help improve the Council’s methods and 
procedures. Pakistan has therefore actively contributed 
to the discussion on the subject in the Council and in its 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions.
in  composition,  effective 
I  now  turn  to  the  second  item  on  the  agenda 
today  —  Security  Council  reform.  Pakistan  supports 
a comprehensive reform that would make the Security 
Council  democratic 
in 
the  general 
decision-making  and  accountable 
membership.  We  believe  that  Council  reform  should 
transcend  current  global  power  politics.  Reform 
should not only be based on contemporary realities but 
should also take into account the likely changes in the 
future.  Our  approach  should  be  dynamic,  not  static  or 
anachronistic.
to 
Pakistan  believes  that  modest  expansion  of  the 
Council  by  adding  new  electable  seats  would  make  it 
more representative and transparent and would ensure 
its  relevance  to  present  and  emerging  global  realities. 
New  seats  based  on  periodic  elections  would  also 
make  the  Council  more  equitable,  diverse  and  plural 
in  terms  of  representation,  as  well  as  more  open  and 
accountable,  to  ref lect  the  aspirations  of  the  general 
membership.  Such  a  reform  model  would  enhance 
ownership  of  the  Security  Council  and  increase  its 
credibility.
Security  Council  reform  remains  a  contentious 
issue.  No  single  model  enjoys  the  requisite  support 
of  Member  States.  To  make  progress,  it  is  therefore 
essential  to  explore  common  middle  ground  through 
f lexibility and compromise.
Originally,  Pakistan  sought  expansion  only  in  the 
non-permanent category. But now Pakistan, along with 
other  members  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group, 
supports the proposal for long-term seats as explained 
in the Italy/Colombia proposal. The fact is that it is the 
only compromise proposal on the table.
2 
12-59231
Our  proposal  does  not  serve  the  interest  of  its 
authors but rather offers a collective bargain to reform a 
United Nations organ whose membership and ownership 
is shared by all States. Our proposal has the capacity to 
absorb  and  accommodate  present  and  future  realities. 
In  a  rapidly  changing  global  geopolitical  landscape, 
our proposal rises above individual national ambitions. 
It ref lects the political configuration of the real world, 
in  which  a  few  large  States,  a  number  of  medium-
sized  States,  a  majority  of  small  States  and  regional 
organizations will be able to play their role effectively 
to promote international peace and security. 
The  Italy/Colombia  paper  is  a  realistic  basis  for 
forward movement in the reform process. Unlike other 
proposals  on  the  table,  it  is  not  a  take-it-or-leave-it 
offer.  It  provides  a  framework  for  real  dialogue  on  an 
achievable final outcome. The proposal also serves the 
dual purpose of modestly expanding the Council while 
ensuring  wider  representation  for  regional  and  cross-
regional  groups  such  as  the  African  Union  and  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
With  a  view  to building bridges,  we  will  continue 
to  reach  out  to  various  groups,  including  the  Forum 
of  Small  States  and  the  African  Group.  Pakistan,  as  a 
member  of  Uniting  for  Consensus,  wishes  to  engage 
closely  with  diverse  groups  in  order  to  share  and 
understand  one  another’s  perspectives  and  pursue 
our  common  objectives.  We  respect  and  support  the 
African  common  position.  Africa’s  just  demand  for  a 
permanent  presence  on  the  Security  Council  is  made 
on behalf of the entire continent. It is therefore different 
from  the  demands  of  those  seeking  permanent  seats 
for  themselves.  We  see  adequate  space  in  the  Uniting 
for  Consensus  reform  model  to  accommodate  the 
African position as a special case based on a concept of 
continent-specific  seats.  We  strongly  believe  that  any 
solution  that  excludes  Africa  or  African  participation 
will be incomplete and therefore untenable.
Under 
the  current  Assembly  presidency,  real 
progress  towards  Security  Council  reform  is  possible. 
We  welcome  the  President’s  letter  of  9  November  and 
appreciate the wide consultations he has held. We agree 
with  him  that  predictability  and  full  transparency 
remain  essential  ingredients  in  the  ongoing  process. 
We  welcome  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
The  issues  on  the  table  are  sensitive  and  the  positions 
divergent. It is our earnest hope that the Chair will be 
attentive to all viewpoints and concerns, and we appeal 
A/67/PV.39
to  him  to  be  so.  Transparency  is  a  precondition  for 
effective and inclusive work. 
The intergovernmental negotiation schedule should 
be  formulated  through  consultations  under  the  overall 
guidance of the President of the General Assembly. We 
stress the Member State-driven nature of the negotiating 
process.  Proposals  and  recommendations  that  have 
not  been  mandated  or  agreed  on  by  the  membership 
cannot  form  a  basis  for  our  work.  An  important 
lesson  learned  in  the  past  two  years  of  the  process  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  is  that  divisive  tactics, 
piecemeal approaches, showdowns on issues of choice, 
and majority-minority claims only prolong the impasse 
and  vitiate  the  atmosphere  for  negotiations.  We  must 
avoid  such  pitfalls  in  the  current  session.  The  reform 
process  cannot  be  held  hostage  to  individual  national 
pursuits of permanent seats through self-serving drafts 
that  have  failed  to  garner  any  support.  It  is  time  to 
proceed  in  a  spirit  of  f lexibility,  based  on  the  agreed 
principles of decision 62/557.
I conclude by commending the role of the President 
of  the  Assembly  in  steering  the  process  of  Security 
Council  reform.  He  has  a  focused,  hands-on,  fair, 
impartial  and  inclusive  approach.  We  admire  it  and 
support his efforts in that regard. We assure him of our 
full cooperation.
Mr.  Núñez  Mosquera  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/67/2)  and  notes  with  concern  that  it  continues  to 
be  fundamentally  stuck  in  descriptive  mode,  lacking 
the  analytic  focus  that  Member  States  need  for  an 
in-depth  assessment  of  its  work.  In  that  connection, 
my  delegation  insists  on  the  need  for  the  Council  to 
present  special  reports  to  the  General  Assembly,  in 
fulfilment of paragraph 1 of Article 15 and paragraph 3 
of Article 24 of the Charter of the United Nations.
The  Members  of 
that  body  of 
limited  membership 
the  United  Nations  have 
entrusted 
the 
fundamental  responsibility  for  acting  on  our  behalf  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
However,  in  discharging  those  functions,  the  Security 
Council  is  obliged  to  act  in  accordance  with  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  as  laid 
down in paragraph 2 of Article 24 of the Charter. Cuba 
would  like  to  point  out  the  Council’s  responsibility  to 
give  due  account  to  the  Assembly  and  to  comply  with 
the provisions of the Charter.
12-59231
3
A/67/PV.39
Regarding  agenda  item  117,  Cuba  reiterates  the 
need  to  accomplish  an  urgent  and  thorough  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  Genuine  United  Nations  reform 
can come about only when the Council is democratized 
and  becomes  a  truly  transparent  structure  that  acts 
in  a  way  that  is  consistent  with  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level  and  deals  appropriately  with 
challenges around the globe.
Security  Council  reform  cannot  continue 
to 
be  postponed  as  a  goal  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Council’s necessary transformation is an imperative for 
the international community, and ignoring that demand 
is  not  only  damaging  but  is  an  insult  to  the  Member 
States. Our delegation supports immediate expansion of 
the Council in both membership categories, permanent 
and  non-permanent.  Other  supposed  alternatives, 
such  as  increasing  only  the  number  of  non-permanent 
seats,  would  merely  prolong  the  current  problems, 
further  widening  the  already  enormous  gap  between 
permanent and non-permanent members. It is extremely 
unfair  that  currently,  with  its  agenda  plagued  with 
items  related  to  Africa,  the  Security  Council  has  no 
permanent representative from that continent, or from 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  Nothing  justifies 
this  lack  of  permanent  participation  on  the  part  of  the 
developing  countries  in  an  organ  of  major  importance 
in the Organization.
Cuba  does  not  support  discrimination  of  any  kind 
among  sovereign  States.  Our  country  unreservedly 
respects the principles of the Charter and of international 
law,  and  we  therefore  believe  that  any  new  permanent 
members  should  have  the  same  rights  and  obligations 
as  the  present  ones.  The  admission  of  new  permanent 
members  without  veto  power  would  be  equivalent  to 
creating  a  new  category  of  Council  members,  which 
Cuba  does  not  favour.  There  is  no  justification  for 
developing  countries  entering  as  new  permanent 
members having a lesser status than the current ones.
Cuba’s  position  has  been  and  continues  to  be 
very  clear  with  regard  to  the  veto.  The  veto  should 
be  eliminated  as  soon  as  possible.  That  privilege  has 
become anachronistic and antidemocratic. It is offensive 
that  the  will  of  the  international  community,  which 
is  expressed  through  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
has  no  impact  in  resolving  global  problems  and  that, 
instead, in the Security Council, everything is reduced 
to  the  will  or  opinion  of  one  country  or  a  limited 
number of countries which, because of the right of the 
veto, throws out and ignores the voice of the members 
of the Organization.
With regard to the size of the Security Council, Cuba 
believes  that  an  enlarged  Council  should  include  no 
less than 26 members. With that figure, the proportion 
between the number of Security Council members and 
the overall membership of the United Nations would be 
similar to that which existed when the United Nations 
was created. 
Reform of the Security Council should encompass 
a far-reaching transformation. We cannot transform the 
structures  if  we  do  not  change  the  working  methods, 
procedures  and  practices.  The  Council’s  working 
methods  must  evolve.  Although  some  modest  changes 
have  taken  place  in  recent  years,  most  of  them  have 
been more formal than substantive. 
The reality today is that the Security Council is not 
transparent,  democratic  or  effective,  much  less  does 
its  work  represent  the  interests  of  the  international 
community.  Cuba  advocates  and  calls  for  the  creation 
of a Security Council in which closed consultations are 
the exception. We hope to see a Council that deals with 
the  issues  that  properly  fall  to  it,  with  an  agenda  that 
includes genuine international challenges and does not 
encroach  upon  issues  that  are  within  the  competence 
of  other  United  Nations  organs.  Cuba  wants  to  see  a 
Security  Council  that  takes  into  account  the  opinions 
of the membership of the Organization before it adopts 
decisions and that ensures genuine access to States that 
are not members of that body.
Urgent  actions  are  required.  We  cannot  prolong 
this debate any further. Reform of the Security Council 
requires  urgent,  genuine  negotiations,  in  which  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  a  fundamental 
role  to  play  in  promoting  progress.  It  is  imperative  to 
transform the current reality and eliminate the failings 
and the lack of transparency, democracy and efficiency 
in  the  Council’s  work.  We  cannot  afford  the  luxury 
of  waiting  forever  for  the  will  of  the  international 
community and the mandates of the General Assembly 
to be fulfilled.
Mr. Sin Son Ho (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): First of all, I would like to take this opportunity 
to express my confidence that, under the President’s able 
leadership, realistic and innovative proposals aimed at 
reforming the Security Council will be devised through 
the current intergovernmental negotiations.
4 
12-59231
The  current  agenda 
item  provides  a  good 
opportunity for the General Assembly to assess the work 
of the Security Council under the Charter of the United 
Nations and improve its working methods. The work of 
the Security Council in the period under review can be 
characterized  by  a  lack  of  impartiality  and  credibility 
and abuse of power. In particular, the Council continues 
to be misused as a tool by a few countries to ignore all 
principles  of  international  relations,  including  those 
related  to  sovereign  equality,  respect  for  sovereignty 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States, 
and to legitimize their unilateral actions to further their 
own interests. 
to  adopt  a  presidential 
A  typical  example  is  that  of  the  United  States 
and  its  blind  followers,  who  pressured  the  Security 
Council 
statement  on 
16  April  2012  (S/PRST/2012/13)  and  condemned  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  for  launching 
a  satellite  for  peaceful  purposes.  As  we  are  all  aware, 
the  transparency  and  peaceful  nature  of  the  launch  of 
our satellite was fully covered in various media, going 
beyond  what  is  required  by  standard  international 
practice  in  the  field.  The  United  States  argument  that 
the satellite launch by the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea was in fact the launch of a long-range ballistic 
missile  was  denied  by  the  international  mass  media 
following  confirmation  of  the  facts.  Nevertheless,  the 
United  States  ridiculously  went  on  to  demand  that 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  not  launch  even  a 
peaceful satellite. 
Our satellite launch was an exercise of a legitimate 
right  granted  to  the  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
Principles  Governing  the  Activities  of  States  in  the 
Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon 
and Other Celestial Bodies, which stands above Security 
Council resolutions. The Council has never considered 
a  single  one  of  the  innumerable  launches  of  satellites 
worldwide,  including  of  military  satellites,  except  for 
our satellite launch for peaceful purposes. That clearly 
ref lects  the  deeply  rooted  hostile  policy  of  the  United 
States  towards  my  country,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  and  it  implies  extreme  selectivity, 
double  standards  and  violation  of  international  law. 
That is a stark reality today, and it serves as a tool for 
the  interests  of  the  United  States  and  other  Powers, 
giving  rise  to  distrust  of  the  Security  Council’s  work 
among  the  Member  States,  as  the  Council  is  far  from 
honouring its mandate to maintain international peace 
and security. 
A/67/PV.39
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
continue  to  exercise  the  sovereign  right  to  use  outer 
space,  as  enshrined  in  universal  international  law, 
which  stand  above  Security  Council  resolutions.  The 
Democratic People’s Republic will continue to expand 
and  intensify  its  outer  space  development  institutions. 
It  will  launch  application  satellites,  including  the 
geostationary satellites necessary for national economic 
development in line with its national space programme.
I now come to the agenda item on the reform of the 
Security Council. The ongoing reform of the Council’s 
undemocratic working methods should be taken up as a 
top priority and without delay. In order to play its role 
to the fullest as the authoritative body for maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  the  Security  Council 
should be impartial in its activities, as stipulated in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  To  that  end,  we  must 
urgently create a mechanism whereby Security Council 
resolutions  on  sanctions  and  the  use  of  armed  force, 
which  greatly  affect  international  peace  and  security, 
would  come  into  force  only  when  they  are  approved 
by  the  General  Assembly,  as  widely  requested  by 
international society. 
Furthermore, the Security Council should enhance 
its  credibility  among  Member  States  by  respecting 
and  ref lecting  the  views  of  concerned  countries  in  its 
consideration of major issues. It is also important to put 
an end to the Council practice whereby it abuses issues 
that  fall  within  the  mandate  of  the  General  Assembly, 
including economic, social and development issues.  It 
creates obstacles to carrying out the work of the General 
Assembly and even weakens its authority.
Intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  are  being 
held  for  the  third  time  this  year,  will  provide  a  good 
opportunity  to  promote  mutual  understanding  and 
reduce  the  differences  between  the  groups  through 
in-depth  discussions  on  the  Security  Council  reform 
proposals,  including  that  of  the  group  of  countries 
that  sponsored  A/61/L.69/Rev.1.  My  delegation  is  of 
the  view  that,  in  order  to  make  substantial  progress 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform, primary attention should be paid to the 
following issues. 
First,  Security  Council  reform  should  be  oriented 
towards  realizing 
the  adequate  representation  of 
developing  countries.  The  basic  configuration  of  the 
Security Council was decided 67 years ago. The Security 
Council  was  originally  made  up  of  11  member  States, 
with  six  elected  members  and  a  total  United  Nations 
12-59231
5
A/67/PV.39
membership of 51 States in 1945. In 1965, the number 
of Security Council members was increased to 15, with 
10  elected  members.  Now,  the  changed  reality  of  the 
twenty-first  century  necessitates  a  further  increase  in 
the  Security  Council  membership,  in  conformity  with 
the  growth  in  the  number  of  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations to 193. 
The developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin 
America  were  colonies  when  the  United  Nations  was 
created.  But  today  those  countries  have  all  gained 
independence and constitute an overwhelming majority 
in  the  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  Therefore, 
the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  is  essentially 
an issue of increasing the representation of developing 
countries.  From  the  viewpoint  of  today’s  changing 
international  relations,  developing  countries  from  the 
continents  of  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin  America  should 
be  represented  in  desirable  positions  in  the  United 
Nations, as they are the biggest political force. 
Secondly,  the  most  reasonable  way  to  reform  the 
Security Council is to resolve issues on a point-by-point 
basis, beginning with an issue on which an agreement 
can  be  reached.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the 
most  reasonable  and  practical  way  of  expanding  the 
Security  Council  at  present  is  to  go  ahead  with  the 
expansion  of  the  non-permanent  category  first,  while 
putting off the issue of the expansion of the permanent 
membership  for  the  time  being,  in  the  light  of  the 
serious  differences  and  different  views  still  existing 
among countries. 
In  the  case  of  enlargement  of  the  permanent 
membership,  it  is  agreed  that  those  countries  that 
are  capable  of  making  genuine  contributions  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security should 
be  accepted  as  permanent  members.  In  that  regard, 
Japan cannot be regarded as eligible to be a permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council.  In  the  past,  Japan 
inf licted  all  sorts  of  unprecedented  suffering  and 
misfortune upon the Asian people, including the Korean 
people, but it is still reluctant to offer a sincere apology 
and full compensation for its crimes against humanity. 
Furthermore,  Japan  revised  its  middle-school  history 
textbooks  to  justify  its  past  crimes  against  humanity 
and  openly  disclosed  its  militaristic  ambitions  by 
continuing  to  pray  at  the  Yasukuni  shrine  and  take 
action aimed at becoming a military Power. 
unqualified  to  become  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council.  Before  seeking  a  permanent  seat  on 
the  Security  Council,  Japan  should  gain  the  trust  of 
the  international  community  by,  among  other  things, 
recognizing,  apologizing  and  compensating  for  the 
invasion  of  Korea  and  other  Asian  countries  and  the 
extraordinary  crimes  against  humanity  committed  in 
the past. 
The  Security  Council  reform  should  be  aimed  at 
enabling  the  Council  to  fully  discharge  its  primary 
mandate  of  maintaining  global  peace  and  security, 
based  on  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter. 
If  unilateralism,  high-handedness  and  unusual  force 
on  the  part  of  a  certain  country  remains  prevalent  in 
the work of the Security Council, the Council will fail 
to  fulfil  its  mandate  as  an  organ  for  securing  peace, 
and eventually it will be degraded as a tool serving the 
interests of the so-called super-Powers. 
In conclusion, my delegation is looking forward to 
Security Council reform, in conformity with the ever-
growing  demand  and  aspirations  of  Member  States  to 
democratize the United Nations.
Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India): I am honoured to 
address the General Assembly on behalf of my country 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
other  matters  related  to  the  Security  Council.  At  the 
outset,  let  me  place  on  record  the  Indian  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  commitment  that    the  President 
has  shown  towards  that  important  issue.  We  welcome 
the  reappointment  of  the  highly  experienced  and  wise 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan as chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations. His letter of July 2012, 
which captured the main elements of the eighth round 
of intergovernmental negotiations that were held during 
the previous General Assembly session, as well as the 
recommendations  contained  in  the  letter,  are  worthy 
of  in-depth  consideration  during  the  current  General 
Assembly session. We therefore call upon Ambassador 
Tanin, through the President of the General Assembly, 
to  convene  a  meeting  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  as  soon  as  possible.  We  would  also 
like  to  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  of  the 
group  of  countries  that  sponsored  A/61/L.69/Rev.1, 
delivered  by  Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe  of  Jamaica 
(see A/67/PV.38). 
the 
It  is  crystal  clear  that  Japan,  which  is  moving 
against  the  current  trend  of  peace  and  development, 
has  no  political  or  moral  qualifications  and  is  totally 
India played an important role in ensuring that the 
process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  was  initiated  and  has  played  an  active 
6 
12-59231
role in the deliberations ever since their commencement 
in 2009. The current state of play in those negotiations 
was  ably  summed  up  by  the  Ministers  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Group  of  Four  (G-4)  countries  in  their 
joint press statement of 25 September. They stated that 
“an  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States 
voiced  support  for  an  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council 
in  both  categories  of  membership, 
permanent and non-permanent.” 
Further,  the  Ministers  expressed  the  view  that 
the strong support for an expansion in both categories 
should  be  ref lected  in  the  negotiation  process  among 
Member States and called for the drafting of a concise 
working document as the basis for further negotiations 
in  line  with  the  recommendations  of  the  chair  of  the 
negotiations.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate  the  calls  made  by  the  G-4  Foreign  Ministers 
and 
the  Indian 
delegation  to  work  towards  the  realization  of  those 
ends  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the 
current session.
the  determination  of 
to  express 
India  is  also  a  member  of  a  group  of  developing 
countries  called  the  L.69  group.  That  group  has  been 
most vocal and articulate in expressing the fervent desire 
among its membership for early reform of the Security 
Council in order to make it ref lective of contemporary 
reality and also acknowledge the manifold changes that 
have  taken  place  in  the  world  since  the  Council  was 
created in 1945.
It  is  therefore  not  at  all  surprising  that  the 
convergences between the L.69 group and the African 
States are increasing day by day. Members have heard 
Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe  clearly  express 
the 
position of L.69 group on the question of the veto. Let 
me  reiterate  that  we  also  support  African  aspirations 
for permanent membership with the veto. 
There  is  also  considerable  convergence  among 
the  wider  membership  on  other  aspects.  We  have  not 
yet  heard  one  dissonant  voice  in  respect  of  enhanced 
representation  for  Africa,  Asia,  Eastern  Europe,  the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region  and  Western 
European  and  other  States,  as  well  as  an  exclusive 
non-permanent  seat  for  the  small  island  developing 
States. The reformed Council is expected to have a size 
in the mid-20s.
Finally,  the  membership  also  wants  the  Council 
to  continually  improve  its  working  methods  and  to 
see  the  General  Assembly  transform  itself  into  the 
A/67/PV.39
chief  deliberative, 
representative body of the international community.
legislative,  policy-making  and 
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  that  India  is  of  the 
view  that  the  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council are essential if it is to ref lect the contemporary 
reality.  Such  an  outcome  will  enhance  the  Council’s 
credibility  and  effectiveness  in  dealing  with  global 
issues. The early reform of the Security Council must be 
pursued with renewed vigour and be urgently enacted. 
Let  me  also  assure  the  President  and  the  rest  of  the 
membership of our willingness to remain constructive 
on  all  issues  on  the  table  in  the  months  to  come.  We 
urge other delegations to do likewise.
Ms.  King  (Australia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this joint debate on the annual report of the 
Security  Council  (A/67/2)  and  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Security  Council 
President,  Ambassador  Puri  of  India,  for  introducing 
the report this morning, and the Colombian delegation, 
under  the  leadership  of  Ambassador  Osorio,  for  its 
careful preparation of the report.
contained 
in 
the 
The 
information 
to  strengthen 
important  catalogue  of 
report 
is  a  very 
the  Council’s 
activity  —  achievements  and  failings  alike  —  and,  as 
such, the report is an essential element in the Council’s 
efforts 
its 
deliberations.  However,  as  others  have  said  today  and 
previously,  strengthening  the  substantive  elements  of 
the  report  could  only  further  assist  that  transparency. 
As Australia has said many times before, transparency 
is  directly  related  to  accountability  for  the  Council’s 
decisions.
transparency 
regarding 
The  events  of  the  past  intensive  year  of  work  on 
the part of the Council have reinforced its critical role 
in  maintaining  peace  and  security.  How  effective  the 
Council  is  in  fulfilling  its  fundamental  remit  depends 
on  the  United  Nations  membership’s  efforts  to  ensure 
that effectiveness. The more representative, accessible 
and  accountable  the  Council  is,  the  better  positioned 
it  is  to  meet  the  globe’s  complex  security  challenges. 
We  Member  States  need  to  intensify  our  efforts  at 
this  General  Assembly  session  to  achieve  meaningful 
reform.
For  Australia,  Security  Council  reform  has  been 
a  long-standing  priority. We  argued  strenuously  at the 
San  Francisco  Conference  in  1945  for  limits  on  the 
use  of  the  veto.  At  that  time,  we  also  advocated  the 
importance of transparency in the Council’s work. We 
12-59231
7
A/67/PV.39
remain firmly committed to those principles today. As 
an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council  from  2013 
for a two-year term, Australia will advocate and support 
initiatives that enhance the Council’s accessibility and 
transparency. We also wish to see progress on that score 
at this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
We  welcome  the  advice  of  the  President  on  the 
reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  consider 
that,  under  his  continued 
stewardship,  there  is  and  should  be  scope  for  us  to 
collectively  gather  momentum  in  the  forthcoming 
rounds of the intergovernmental negotiations.
in 
In  anticipation  of  those  negotiations,  allow  me 
to  reiterate  that  we  support  an  expansion  of  the 
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories,  while  balancing  the  need  for  enhanced 
representation 
the  practical 
requirement  of  maintaining  decision-making  cohesion 
and  effectiveness.  We  remain  prepared  to  assist  the 
negotiations  by  showing  f lexibility  and  creativity  to 
find  solutions.  As  others  have  said  today,  we  have  a 
very clear sense of where we all stand on those issues. 
It is now time to find some common ground.
the  Council  with 
On the question of membership, Australia strongly 
supports the inclusion of permanent representation from 
Africa on the Council. African countries comprise more 
than  a  quarter  of  the  United  Nations  membership  and 
contribute  some  two  thirds  of  the  Security  Council’s 
agenda. It is proper that the African continent take its 
permanent place in the Council’s deliberations.
Australia  also  considers  that,  without  prejudice  to 
the  achievement  of  reform  on  all  five  aspects  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  can  collectively 
realize  immediate  and  tangible  benefits  in  improving 
the  Council’s  working  methods.  Australia  considered 
that  the  draft  resolution  (A/66/L.42/Rev.2)  introduced 
in May this year by the representative of the then group 
of  five  small  nations  contained  some  very  reasonable 
measures that were consistent with our own ambitions 
for a more transparent and accessible Security Council. 
We were disappointed that the draft resolution was not 
taken forward. We would like to see efforts this year to 
enhance the way in which the Council operates. In that 
context,  we  acknowledge  the  progress  achieved  in  the 
Council’s Informal Working Group on Documentation 
and Other Procedural Questions and in particular thank 
Ambassador Cabral of Portugal for his efforts.
To  conclude,  Australia  pledges  its  full  support  for 
the  ongoing  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform. 
We are committed to working closely and pragmatically 
with  Ambassador  Tanin  and 
to 
overcome  the  current  stalemate  and  move  to  genuine 
negotiations. It is apparent, however, that to get to that 
stage  delegations  will  have  to  show  greater  f lexibility 
and  some  creativity  in  order  to  surmount  the  strong 
geopolitical obstacles that stand in our way.
the  membership 
Mr.  Motanyane  (Lesotho):  I  thank  the  President 
for convening this very important meeting. I also wish 
to thank the Permanent Representative of India, in his 
capacity  as  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
month of November, for presenting the annual report of 
the Council (A/67/2) before this body and the delegation 
of  Colombia  for  its  contribution  to  the  production  of 
that report. Allow me at the outset to align myself with 
the  statements  delivered  at    the  38th  meeting  by  the 
Permanent Representatives of Egypt and of Algeria on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  African 
Group, respectively.
Peace-loving  nations  came  together  in  1945  to 
unite  their  strength  in  order  to  maintain  international 
peace and security. That sacred duty was conferred on 
the  Security  Council,  for  the  Council  to  exercise  it  on 
behalf of all States Members of the United Nations. In 
that light, we view the presentation of the report of the 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  not  as  a  ritualistic 
event  that  has  to  be  performed  in  order  to  fulfil  the 
requirements  of  the  Charter  but,  more  importantly,  as 
an  opportunity  to  account  for  actions  taken  on  behalf 
of the entire United Nations membership. Furthermore, 
that presents a chance for the Council to interact with 
Member States and receive feedback on how to build on 
the gains made in the discharge of its mandate.
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period 
1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 is not materially different 
from  the  Council’s  previous  annual  reports  to  the 
General  Assembly. Whereas  there  has  been  a  surge  in 
the number of open meetings held by the Council during 
the  reporting  period,  the  report  nevertheless  offers  no 
analysis of the impact and inf luence, if any, that those 
meetings have had on the decisions and resolutions that 
the Council took during the period in question.
Open  meetings  promote 
and 
inclusivity  and  undoubtedly  afford  the  larger  United 
Nations membership a rare chance to contribute to the 
work of the Council. It is mainly through those meetings 
that  the  Council  can  get  to  know  the  views  of  other 
transparency 
8 
12-59231
A/67/PV.39
Member States on the issues of which it is seized. They 
should not be held just for the sake of accommodating 
non-Council members. My delegation urges the Council 
to consider ref lecting, in its report, the general views of 
Member States on issues with which it has dealt and to 
what extent those views have been of value to its work 
in its future reports.
Moreover,  we  note  that  the  Council  has  continued 
its  engagement  with  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries. We encourage continuation of that practice. 
The  Council  may  wish  to  consider  incorporating 
such  engagements  into  its  timetable  of  meetings,  as 
appropriate. By the same token, we urge the Council to 
consider  increasing  the  frequency  of  its  engagements 
with  Member  States  and  other  stakeholders  using 
platforms  such  as  Arria-formula  meetings.  Intensive 
engagement with Council members will foster Member 
States’  confidence  in  the  Council  and  thereby  dispel 
misunderstandings between them and the Council.
We  note  that  the  Council  has  had  to  deal  with 
complex  conf lict  situations  in  Africa  and  elsewhere. 
However,  the  report  is  largely  a  narration  of  events 
and  meetings,  along  with  an  enumeration  of  decisions 
or  resolutions  adopted  during  the  reporting  period.  It 
would  be  better  if  the  report  were  more  detailed  and 
analytical with regard to the challenges that the Council 
has faced in fulfilling its mandate; how its efforts affect 
peace  processes  in  conf lict  areas;  and,  if  the  level  of 
compliance with its resolutions varies, what causes that 
variability and how the Council intends to solve it. We 
are confident that the Council will rise to the occasion 
in future and present reports to the Assembly that will 
shed more light on its internal dynamics.
Allow me at this juncture to turn to the question of 
Security Council reform. The President’s commitment 
to  continuing  the  process  of  reforming  the  Council  is 
indeed encouraging. We welcome the reappointment of 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, and assure him of our support during the 
sixty-seventh  session. We  are  confident  that  under  his 
leadership we will make considerable progress.
the 
The need for early reform of the Security Council 
was  universally  agreed  on  by 
international 
community  at  the  World  Summit  in  2005.  Yet,  seven 
years  later,  negotiations  on  reforming  the  Council 
still  show  little  progress.  Member  States  have  had 
opportunities  to  state  and  rehash  their  positions 
during  the  multiple  rounds  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations held so far. Consequently, all our positions 
on Council reform are a matter of common knowledge. 
But  there  is  still  discord  as  to  what  shape  and  size  a 
reformed Council should take. Today’s debate gives us 
an  opportunity  to  ref lect  on  how  to  move  the  process 
forward without further delay.
Today,  there  are  too  many  factors  that  speak  to 
the necessity for Security Council reform. Nations are 
rising up against dictatorial regimes in defence of their 
basic human rights and freedoms. People are standing 
up  to  political  oppression.  In  some  countries,  that 
quest for freedom, human rights and democracy is met 
with  atrocious  force  and  brutality.  Innocent  civilians, 
women  and  children,  suffering  the  brunt  of  brutal 
regimes,  look  to  the  United  Nations  for  help.  Sadly, 
the multilateral system is struggling to respond to such 
challenges  in  a  coordinated  way.  Individual  interests 
in the Council continue to dominate the collective will 
of the majority. Owing to its anachronistic nature, the 
Security  Council  remains  largely  inept  at  fulfilling 
its  mandate;  hence  the  need  for  its  reform.  Double 
standards have always characterized its work and have 
been a major impediment to building a safer and more 
secure world.
The  adoption  of  decision  62/557  ushered  in  new 
hope that the determination to comprehensively reform 
the Council is our shared ideal. We agreed on the scope 
of  the  negotiable  elements,  which  include  the  size  of 
an  expanded  Council;  categories  of  membership; 
regional  representation;  veto  power;  working  methods 
and  the  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation 
that  decision  62/557  should  continue  to  be  the  basis 
for  Security  Council  reform  negotiations,  if  we  are 
to  realize  our  goal  of  having  a  Council  that  ref lects 
modern geopolitical realities.
We need no reminding that Security Council reform 
is an integral part of strengthening the United Nations 
system. We must therefore negotiate in good faith and 
mutual  respect.  Reform  must  take  into  account  the 
interests and concerns of all Member States, especially 
those  currently  underrepresented.  Needless  to  say, 
the  expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  categories  is 
an  answer  to  Africa’s  absence  from  the  permanent 
category and underrepresentation in the non-permanent 
category. The reform we pursue should be genuine and 
comprehensive.  A  piecemeal  approach  would  only 
perpetuate the status quo, which is clearly untenable.
We  must  refrain  from  taking  steps  that  could 
undermine  the  current  momentum.  Our  goal  should 
12-59231
9
A/67/PV.39
always  be  to  manage  the  process  in  such  a  way  that 
we  achieve  results. We  must  look  at  the  larger  picture 
and not make our individual aspirations a priority. Let 
us  approach  reform  of  the  Council  with  open  minds, 
making the necessary compromises, while at the same 
time respecting differences of opinion. As we do so, let 
us ensure that all our initiatives benefit from the views 
of the great majority of the membership. Transparency 
and  inclusivity  in  the  steps  we  take  will  be  key  to 
our  success.  It  is  our  hope  that  real  negotiations  will 
commence soon.
I wish to conclude by pointing out that, if we stay 
mired in our irreconcilable differences on how to reform 
the  Security  Council,  the  United  Nations  will  remain 
as  it  was  67  years  ago  and  will  become  increasingly 
irrelevant to the modern-day world. We must therefore 
allow  nothing  to  dissuade  us  from  realizing  our  goal 
of  a  reformed  and  democratic  Security  Council.  With 
renewed  political  will  and  determination,  we  can  give 
impetus to the negotiations and thus be able to agree on 
a reform model that ref lects the realities of the twenty-
first century.
Mr.  Balé  (Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  would  first  like  to  say  that  the  Republic  of 
the Congo subscribes fully to the statements delivered 
on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Ambassador 
Hardeep  Singh  Puri  for  his  presentation  of  the  report 
on the activities of the Security Council for the period 
1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 (A/67/2). In that regard, 
I would like to convey my delegation’s appreciation for 
that  body’s  efforts  to  fulfil  the  mission  entrusted  to  it 
by the Charter of the United Nations.
While  the  report  is  exhaustive  and  can  be  said  to 
give a full account of the many activities undertaken by 
the Security Council, it tells us little about the challenges 
that that body, which bears principal responsibility for 
the maintenance of international peace and security, has 
had to deal with during the period under consideration, 
particularly  in  the  area  of  preventing  and  managing 
various crises and conf licts. That is why my delegation 
considers  that  the  improvements  apparent  in  the 
presentation  of  the  report  do  not  obviate  the  necessity 
of making it more analytical and a better expression of 
the  views  of  its  members,  which  would  illuminate  the 
challenges more clearly.
Nevertheless, my delegation welcomes the creation 
of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Office  for  Central 
Africa  as  a  response  to  the  desire  of  the  States  in  our 
subregion  to  have  a  tool  that  can  henceforth  support 
them in their efforts to prevent conf lict and build peace. 
That  is  part  of  a  healthy  trend  demonstrating  that  the 
Security Council is involved in preventing conf lict and 
promoting peace.
Similarly, the Republic of the Congo, as a member 
of  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
welcomes  the  improved  cooperation  between  that 
regional  body  and 
the  United  Nations  Security 
Council,  and  hopes  that  that  will  lend  momentum  to 
the promotion of peace and security in Africa, a region 
where more than half the issues on the Council’s agenda 
originate.
I  take  this  opportunity  offered  by  this  debate 
on  fair  representation  in  the  Security  Council  and 
expansion of its membership to commend the facilitator 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  his  leadership  and 
the  energy  he  has  poured  into  that  endeavour  since 
2009.  Our  discussion  of  the  Security  Council’s  report 
gives us yet another chance to assess the development 
of a process that has proven to be very challenging and 
to consider our future course of action. 
All  living  organisms  must  evolve.  The  Security 
Council,  which  bears  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
and  which  we  want  to  see  become  more  transparent, 
more energized, more democratic and more adapted to 
the realities of the current world, is no exception. From 
that point of view, we expect that the intergovernmental 
negotiations begun on 19 February 2009 on the issues 
of  fair  representation  in  the  Security  Council,  the 
expansion of its membership and related questions will 
lead,  through  consensus,  to  some  concrete  results  and 
eliminate  the  outmoded  rejection  of  Security  Council 
reform, which the world of today — and justice — call 
out for. 
Granted, differences of opinion among the various 
groups and stakeholders persist, especially with regard 
to the question of the expansion of the membership in 
the permanent and non-permanent categories. The issue 
of  the  veto  is  even  more  divisive.  The  matter  of  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods  and  its  relations 
with  the  General  Assembly  is  less  controversial  but 
nevertheless  impedes  the  global  consensus  that  is 
needed. Still, despite lingering differences of opinion, 
the  eighth  cycle  of  discussions  has  shown  that  some 
10 
12-59231
bridging  of  significant  divides  is  possible  and  might 
lead to the beginning of genuine negotiations. 
Colombia for its efforts in preparing the report during 
its presidency of the Council in July.
A/67/PV.39
We  all  agree  that  the  Council  needs  reform. 
But  the  reform  that  we  call  for  is  one  that  takes  into 
consideration regional representation, especially in the 
case  of  Africa,  which,  as  the  Council  stands  now,  has 
no representation in the permanent category. Moreover, 
it  has  become  clear  that  throughout  the  negotiation 
process  all  Member  States  have  agreed  regarding 
the  historical  injustice  done  to  Africa,  the  only 
continent  not  represented  in  the  permanent  member 
category  of  the  Security  Council.  The  resistance  on 
the part of some States to draw the logical conclusions 
about  the  way  to  redress  that  injustice  sadly  f lies  in 
the  face  of  the  unanimous  acknowledgement  of  the 
injustice and betrays a curious irrationality. 
It should also be noted that the agreement between 
the African Group and the group associated with draft 
resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1 on the question of Security 
Council  reform  has,  without  any  doubt,  energized  the 
intergovernmental negotiation process and considerably 
widened  Member  States’  support  for  the  common 
African position, as set out in the Ezulwini Consensus. 
We particularly welcome that development.
The  reformed  Security  Council  we  envision 
would  be  more  representative,  more  in  line  with  the 
current  realities  of  the  world  today,  more  democratic, 
more  transparent  and  more  responsible  in  fulfilling 
its  fundamental  mission.  For  that  to  come  about,  the 
Council  must  be  more  attentive  to  the  aspirations  of 
all  Member  States,  especially  developing  countries, 
including small States. 
In  my  delegation’s  view,  the  dynamism  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  over  the  past 
three  years  gives  reason  to  hope  that  obstacles  can, 
bit  by  bit,  be  overcome,  because  delegations  have  so 
often voiced their support for Security Council reform 
that  they  clearly  show  genuine  political  will  to  that 
end.  For  its  part,  the  Congo  reiterates  its  belief  in 
the  principles  and  goals  of  Security  Council  reform 
and  will  continue  to  work  with  an  open  mind  towards 
that goal. 
Mr. Nakonechnyi (Ukraine): At the outset, let me 
express  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  for  the  month  of  November,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  India,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/67/2),  as  well  as  to  the  delegation  of 
Without a doubt, the work of the Security Council 
seems every year to be more difficult than the previous 
one,  and  that  trend  was  clearly  seen  during  the  past 
months,  when  we  faced  several  challenges  in  various 
parts of the world. The Council’s main task of effectively 
addressing  challenges  and  maintaining  international 
peace and security remains critical.
We  are  witnessing  a  time  when  the  political 
landscape  is  dramatically  changing,  as  people  around 
the world demand and fight for their rights to freedom 
and  equal  opportunity.  One  has  to  recognize  that 
freedom  of  choice  is  a  universal  principle,  to  which 
there  should  be  no  exceptions.  The  Council  cannot 
remain  indifferent  to  those  developments,  and  it  must 
deal  with  such  issues  in  a  comprehensive  way,  not  as 
isolated, unrelated problems.
My  delegation  strongly  supports  the  Council’s 
prioritization  of  its  engagement  in  conf lict  prevention 
and mediation. Ukraine considers those two tools to be 
indispensable items in the Security Council’s kit. That 
approach was one of the main drivers of Ukraine’s only 
term  so  far  in  the  Council  as  an  independent  State  in 
2000-2001. At the same time, there is still some room 
for the enhancement of such activities.
In 
in 
that  context,  we  appreciate 
the  overview 
provided 
the  Council’s  report.  However,  my 
delegation  would  appreciate  it  if  non-members  of  the 
Council  could  be  updated  on  the  issues  discussed  in 
monthly consultations. In our view, regular substantive 
open  updates  by  the  Security  Council  presidencies 
would  be  equally  beneficial  to  the  Council  members 
and  to  the  wider  United  Nations  membership,  as 
they  would  encourage  and  strengthen  the  overall 
culture  of  prevention  and  mediation  on  the  part  of the 
Organization.
Having carefully studied this year’s report, we must 
state that there is still room to improve the prognostic 
and  analytical  components  in  assessing  the  work  of 
the Council. Moreover, we support the idea that future 
annual reports of the Council should ref lect the general 
views expressed by non-members of the body during its 
open debates.
Ukraine 
supports  developing  dialogue 
and 
cooperation between the Security Council and regional 
organizations  working  in  the  sphere  of  international 
peace and security, in accordance with Chapter VIII of 
12-59231
11
A/67/PV.39
the Charter. We are ready to contribute to that process 
in  our  role  as  Chair  of  the  Organization  for  Security 
and Cooperation in Europe in 2013. We will be glad to 
share  our  views  on  that  issue  and  our  priorities  at  the 
briefing in the Council in February 2013.
significance.  Making 
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform.  Ukraine  considers 
the  modernization  of 
the  Security  Council  to  be  an  issue  of  exceptional 
international 
the  Security 
Council more representative and balanced and its work 
more  effective  and  transparent,  especially  with  regard 
to its decision-making process, is vital for adapting the 
United  Nations  to  the  global  realities  of  the  twenty-
first  century.  Security  Council  reform  should  be 
implemented  in  strict  compliance  with  the  purposes 
and principles of the United Nations Charter.
We support increased representation in the Security 
Council  of  developing  countries  from  Africa,  Asia, 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  We  also  strongly 
believe  that  the  overall  enhancement  in  the  Security 
Council  composition  should  be  based  on  the  existing 
regional  groups.  As  pointed  out  by  the  President  of 
Ukraine  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  September  (see 
A/67/PV.9),  my  country  is  open  to  discussing  all 
progressive  concepts  of  Security  Council  reform  that 
can  lead  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
the  broadest  possible  agreement.  In  that  context,  my 
delegation holds that any existing or potential formula 
will  only  gain  in  legitimacy  by  envisaging  enhanced 
representation of the Group of Eastern European States 
through allocation to it of one additional non-permanent 
seat.
As  to  the  current  state  of  play  and  the  way 
forward, we broadly share the relevant assessments and 
suggestions made by the chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  which  were 
outlined  in  his  latest  letter  to  Member  States.  We 
congratulate  Ambassador  Tanin  on  his  reappointment 
as chair of the negotiations, and would like to underline 
our  delegation’s  commitment  to  progress  in  those 
negotiations.  My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  newly 
elected  members  of  the  Council  and  looks  forward 
to  progress  in  the  area  of  improving  the  work  of  that 
important body.
Ukraine  has  always  been  an  advocate  of  a  strong 
United Nations with the Security Council, as its principal 
organ, entrusted with the primary responsibility for the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  That 
commitment will further guide my country’s activities 
in the United Nations, including in event of our election 
to the Security Council for the term of 2016-2017.
Mr.  Arias  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  welcome 
the opportunity to participate in this joint debate on the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/67/2)  and  on  the  question  of  Security 
Council reform. 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  India  for  his  presentation  of  the  Council’s  report 
at  our  preceding  meeting.  We  appreciate  the  effort 
he  is  making  to  provide  information  that  is  of  higher 
quality  and  centred  more  on  analysis  than  on  simply 
relating  the  facts.  We  encourage  him  to  continue  in 
that  direction  in  order  to  improve  the  cooperation 
and  interaction  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly. Essential ingredients to achieve that 
objective are transparency and greater participation of 
all Member States in the activities and decisions of the 
Security Council, especially on issues that affect them 
directly. 
I  now  address  the  question  of  Security  Council 
reform. I associate myself with the statement delivered 
by  the  Italian  delegation  at  the  38th  meeting  in  its 
capacity  as  focal  point  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group. 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  note 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
Spain’s  full  support  in  the  fulfilment  of  his  role  as 
guarantor  of  impartiality  in  conducting  the  process 
of 
the 
reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  those 
negotiations. Ambassador Tanin knows he can count on 
Spain’s utmost support in helping him in his obligation, 
which undoubtedly is a very demanding responsibility. 
The leadership roles of the Assembly President and of 
the  coordinator  are  indispensable  for  ensuring  a  good 
result  of  the  process,  in  which  Member  States  alone 
have the ability to make proposals. With the fulfilment 
of that premise and the accumulated experience gained 
by Ambassador Tanin, I am sure we will progress on a 
solid basis on this sensitive issue. 
I  should  like  to  share  Spain’s  views  on  Security 
Council reform. We need to adapt the Security Council 
to the realities and demands of the twenty-first century. 
We  need  a  Council  that  is  more  democratic,  more 
transparent,  more  efficient,  more  inclined  to  assume 
its  responsibilities  and  be  accountable  for  them.  The 
12 
12-59231
process  of  negotiations  that  brings  us  towards  that 
horizon  must  respect,  in  accordance  with  decision 
62/557,  a  global  approach  that  would  include  the  five 
key issues and not fall into the temptation of favouring 
some  of  them  to  the  detriment  of  others.  In  an 
undertaking of this magnitude, despite the fact that the 
negotiations have been protracted for far longer than is 
desired, there is no room for any acceleration prompted 
by self-interest. The final outcome ought to be broadly 
satisfactory,  because  otherwise  the  effort  would  be  a 
useless failure. 
My delegation is convinced that the most democratic 
proposal  that  has  been  submitted  for  consideration  by 
all Members is that of Uniting for Consensus, as it is the 
fairest and most inclusive. For that reason, and with due 
respect for the other proposals, we believe that it is the 
only one capable of generating a broad consensus. It is 
our belief that the necessary enlargement of the Security 
Council should not result in an increase in the number of 
its permanent members. Instead, we propose to provide 
formulas  that  facilitate  and  increase  the  opportunities 
for  all  Member  States  to  serve  in  that  organ,  as  well 
as  longer-term  and/or  more  frequent  participation  for 
States  with  a  larger  presence  in  the  different  areas  of 
the  Organization.  The  idea  of  establishing  long-term 
seats is aimed at this second purpose. 
Uniting  for  Consensus  advocates  abolishing  the 
veto  or,  if  that  is  not  possible,  regulating  it  to  reduce 
its practice to a minimum and to thus avoid the abusive 
and unjustifiable use of that privilege. To that end, the 
right  of  veto  should  be  relinquished  in  alleged  crimes 
of  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity, and when the veto is used, the reasons 
should be publicly given. 
Another  key  objective  of  this  reform  is  to  achieve 
geographic  representation  that  accords  with  the  new 
reality  of  the  international  community  of  States. 
That  we  need  to  rectify  the  poor  representation  of 
the  African  continent  is  inexcusable.  The  proposal  of 
Uniting for Consensus takes into special consideration 
the  current  anomaly,  which  should  be  corrected  by 
allotting  an  appropriate  number  of  long-term  seats  to 
African countries. 
Uniting  for  Consensus  wants  to  improve  the 
Council’s  working  methods  by  promoting 
its 
transparency  and  ineraction,  which  will  also  result  in 
a  smoother  and  more  efficient  relationship  with  the 
General Assembly. 
A/67/PV.39
Spain  would  like  to  be  able  to  receive  with 
sufficient  prior  notice  a  programme  of  work  for  the 
current  exercise.  We  encourage  Ambassador  Tanin 
to  work  in  close  consultation  with  Member  States. 
Decisions  62/557,  63/565  and  64/568  establish  the 
comprehensive  and  inclusive  nature  and  the  centrality 
of  the  role  of  States  in  the  negotiations.  Respect  for 
the  rules  of  procedure  and  the  development  of  a  well-
structured  programme  of  work  will  pave  the  way  for 
achieving  concrete  and  satisfactory  results  in  the  next 
negotiating  round.  Spain  believes  that  we  are  capable 
of  bringing  them  about  by  working  together  with  a 
constructive spirit and avoiding maximalist approaches.
Mr. Estreme (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish):  First 
I wish to thank the President of the Security Council for 
introducing the report (A/67/2) to the General Assembly 
on the meetings and activities of the Council and of its 
subsidiary bodies in the past year. 
My  delegation  has  observed  a  trend  towards  an 
increase in the workload of the Security Council in the 
period under review with the persistence and emergence 
of  new  crises  in  Africa  and  in  the  Middle  East  in 
particular.  Argentina  is  following  those  developments 
with attention, particularly since it will be joining that 
body on 1 January 2013. 
My delegation would also like to highlight Portugal’s 
leadership during this period with a view to improving 
the  Council’s  working  methods.  We  recognize  the 
strides  made  in  this  area  where  the  outstanding 
issues  of  greater  inclusiveness  and  transparency  of 
the  membership  are  still  unresolved.  That  is  why  in 
the  course  of  our  mandate  during  the  next  two  years, 
Argentina  will  place  particular  importance  on  trying 
to increase transparency with regard to the work of the 
Security Council and its subsidiary bodies.
That  said,  we  regret  once  again  the  fact  that  this 
Security  Council  report  lacks  more  analysis  and 
continues to be limited to a great extent to an account 
of  facts,  from  which  we  cannot  make  a  conclusive 
assessment  of  the  Council’s  substantive  activities. 
We  also  regret  the  fact  that  the  report  was  circulated 
very  little  in  advance  so  that  delegations,  including 
Argentina, were not able to study its content carefully.
Argentina 
remains  committed 
to  achieving 
Security Council reform as soon as possible with a view 
to a more democratic, transparent and inclusive Council 
that represents all regions of the world — in particular 
12-59231
13
A/67/PV.39
Africa,  where  the  majority  of  the  Council’s  activity  is 
focused and which is underrepresented in that organ.
efforts  in  Afghanistan,  Timor-Leste,  Sierra  Leone, 
Haiti and other countries. 
That reform should necessarily comprise five pillars 
and  must  the  outcome  of  a  consensus  in  line  with  the 
outcomes of the relevant General Assembly resolutions 
and  decisions.  In  that  framework,  Argentina,  which  is 
a member of the Uniting for Consensus group, remains 
committed to working with all Members and groups to 
achieve  the  common  goal.  We  are  convinced  that  we 
can  achieve  that  reform  only  if  our  positions  become 
more  f lexible,  as  Uniting  for  Consensus  has  pointed 
out.
The  initiatives  on  partial  reform,  or  those  that 
seek  to  speed  up  the  process  or  that  do  not  take  into 
account  national  ownership  by  Member  States  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  not  only  will  prevent 
us  from  moving  forward  but  also  are  likely  to  push 
us  backwards.  In  that  respect,  we  warn  against  the 
potential adverse effects of partial initiatives, wherever 
they come from.    
Argentina  and  Uniting  for  Consensus  welcome 
the  decision  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  work  with  all  Members  and  with  the  chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador 
Tanin — whom we thank for his work — in a framework 
of 
transparency  and  predictability  as  essential 
ingredients  for  a  successful  reform  process.  We  trust 
that  under  the  leadership  of  the  President  we  will  be 
able to achieve tangible progress in the current session.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank 
the  representative  of  India  for  presenting  the  annual 
report of the Security Council (A/67/2) to the General 
Assembly on behalf of the Council (see A/67/PV.38). I 
would also like to thank the delegation of Colombia and 
the Secretariat for preparing the report.
In  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  actively 
fulfilled the mandates entrusted to it under the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  made  important  efforts  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
and  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  through 
good  offices,  mediation,  dialogue  and  consultations. 
The  Council  has  closely  followed  the  developments 
in  the  situations  in  the  Middle  East  and  in  Africa  and 
has  endeavoured  to  facilitate  the  proper  resolution  of 
outstanding  problems  between  the  Sudan  and  South 
Sudan through dialogue and negotiations. The Council 
has  also  actively  maintained  security  and  stability  in 
the  Sahel  region  and  further  promoted  peacebuilding 
The  Council  is  committed  to  combating  terrorism 
and to preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.  It  attaches  great  importance  to  protecting 
the rights and interests of women and children in armed 
conf lict and to strengthening cooperation with regional 
and subregional organizations.
The  Security  Council  has  kept  up  with  the  efforts 
to improve its working methods in order to better fulfil 
its  mandate  and  to  increase  the  transparency  of  its 
work. It has held many open meetings and debates and 
has enhanced its exchanges with the General Assembly 
and  other  principal  bodies  of  the  United  Nations, 
non-Council  members  and  countries  contributing 
troops  to  peacekeeping  operations.  The  Council  has 
also  conducted  frequent  exchanges  of  views  with 
relevant  stakeholders  through  such  innovative  formats 
as informal interactive dialogues.
China  supports  the  Council  in  its  ongoing  efforts 
to  improve  its  working  methods.  At  present,  the 
international community is facing increasing challenges 
in the area of peace and security. We hope the Council 
will pay greater attention to the needs and demands of 
Africa and support the efforts of the African Union and 
regional organizations in Africa to maintain peace and 
security  on  the  continent.  The  Council  should  make 
better use of such means as good offices and mediation 
to prevent conf lict and turmoil, to reform and improve 
peacekeeping  operations  and  to  support  post-conf lict 
peacebuilding  efforts  in  order  to  further  contribute  to 
the maintenance of international peace and security.
China supports the Security Council in enhancing 
its  authority  and  efficiency  through  appropriate  and 
necessary reform so as to better implement the mandate 
of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security 
entrusted to it under the Charter. The Council should give 
priority  to  increasing  the  representation  of  developing 
countries,  in  particular  African  countries,  on  the 
Council. Security Council reform should be conducive 
to more opportunities for more countries — especially 
small  and  medium-sized  countries,  which  constitute 
the  majority  of  the  United  Nations  membership  —  to 
take part in meetings and to participate in the Council’s 
decision-making. 
Security  Council  reform  is  both  complex  and 
necessary.  It  affects  the  vital  interests  of  Member 
States,  and  currently  there  remains  a  wide  divergence 
14 
12-59231
of  opinions  on  the  issue.  Member  States  should 
continue to actively work toward consensus and to meet 
each other half way through democratic consultations. 
Imposing  any  artificial  deadline  for  the  reform  or 
taking  forceful  action  when  the  conditions  are  not 
favourable  will  not  help  to  resolve  problems  but  will 
only lead to aggravating differences and confrontations 
among Member States.
The  five  clusters  of  issues  under  Council  reform 
are  interrelated.  We  should  seek  a  comprehensive 
package of solutions. A piecemeal or phased approach 
will  go  nowhere.  The  efforts  to  reform  the  Council 
should  continue  through  the  main  channel  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  should  promote 
their  orderly  progress,  pursuant  to  decision  62/557, 
and  the  principles  of  openness,  transparency  and 
inclusiveness.  Ownership  by  the  membership  is  the 
important principle guiding the negotiations. Continued 
compliance with that principle is both the prerequisite 
for  the  appropriate  development  of  the  reform  process 
and the guarantee for successful results of the reform.
Imposing  any  solution  will  make  it  impossible 
to  accommodate,  to  the  greatest  extent  possible,  the 
legitimate  interests  and  concerns  of  the  vast  majority 
of  the  membership.  Without  the  mandate  of  Member 
States,  we  should  not  allow  any  wilful  attempt  to 
streamline  the  participation  of  Member  States  or  to 
reduce the options for negotiations.
China  hopes  that  Member  States  will  continue 
to  effectively  take  advantage  of  the  platform  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  galvanize  mutual 
interests  in  an  effort  to  seek  the  broadest  possible 
agreement  on Security Council reform.
Mr. Maza Martelli (El Salvador) (spoke in Spanish): 
El Salvador welcomes the convening of this debate on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  are  convinced  that  it  is 
an  essential  and  urgent  issue  for  the  strengthening  of 
multilateralism as the practicable way for enhancing the 
capacities  for  legitimate  action  by  the  United  Nations 
in  order  to  contribute  in  an  effective,  democratic  and 
inclusive  manner  to  maintaining  peace  and  security 
and  thereby  to  prevent  conf licts  and  humanitarian 
crises  caused  by  humankind’s  great  economic,  social 
and environmental problems. 
Therefore,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  only 
way  to  achieve  significant  changes  in  the  Security 
Council  is  through  its  genuine  reconstruction.  That 
requires  enlarging  its  membership  in  both  categories, 
A/67/PV.39
with a balanced representation. That is essential when 
decisions  are  made,  above  all  when  those  decisions 
can  redefine  the  balance  of  power  at  the  global  level. 
All  that  must  be  in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 
The  international  political  balances  must  respect 
to  a  certain  extent  the  diversity  of  existing  interests, 
but  most  of  all  the  well-being  of  all  peoples.  In  our 
view,  that  requires  greater  regional  representation  of 
both Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean in an 
enlarged Security Council. In that regard, we reiterate 
our support to the proposal made by the Group of Four, 
which is aimed at defining, in a first stage, the increase 
in the representation of permanent and non-permanent 
members  as  an  essential  element  commensurate  with 
the  new  global  geography  and  new  international 
challenges.  It  includes  improvement  in  the  working 
methods. 
As we have said in previous meetings, El Salvador 
agrees  on  the  importance  of  reforming  the  Security 
Council  to  make  it  a  more  inclusive,  democratic, 
transparent and equitable organ that corresponds to new 
global challenges and is a mechanism for the peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes  in  a  broadened 
context. Our delegation believes that any process which 
involves a reform or improvement of the Council must 
be approached through a process of intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  be  based  on  the  greatest  possible 
political  acceptance,  which  is  naturally  ref lected  by 
consensus  or  at  least  with  a  majority  greater  than  two 
thirds. 
The  Member  States  have  expressed 
interest 
and  readiness  to  continue  to  move  forward  with  the 
negotiations.  Nevertheless,  it  has  not  been  possible 
to  get  past  the  practice  of  just  making  statements  of 
position to come to real negotiations that yield concrete 
results.  Therefore,  we  believe  that  it  is  vital  that  there 
should be genuine political will and f lexibility in order 
to  move  beyond  this  stage  and  have  a  future  with  an 
organ  that  is  more  representative  and  therefore  more 
effective and legitimate in implementing its decisions. 
important 
that 
it 
Similarly,  we  consider 
the 
intergovernmental negotiation process should continue 
and move to direct negotiations based on a concentrated 
text that allows progress in this process, since the time 
left for achieving agreement on this subject is running 
out as we face history. The international reality on the 
ground clearly shows the need to address this reform in 
the shortest term possible. 
12-59231
15
A/67/PV.39
El Salvador would like to highlight, and express its 
appreciation for, the ongoing commitment of all Member 
States to continue the dialogue on this very important 
issue  in  order  to  ensure  that  we  have  a  strengthened 
United  Nations  in  the  situation  that  the  international 
community is currently experiencing and the obligation 
to  prepare  ourselves  for  the  future.  El  Salvador  will 
continue to support proposals that allow us to improve 
and enhance the system of multilateral coordination and 
all those spaces that enable us to produce proposals that 
are  then  ref lected  in  effective  responses  to  overcome 
the situation of inequality and injustice and to create a 
world with greater solidarity and equality. 
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  let  me  thank 
you, Mr. President, for convening this meeting. I would 
also  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  for 
his reappointment as the chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  thank  India  for  presenting  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/67/2)  at  our 
preceding meeting. 
Turkey  would  like  to  see  a  more  accountable, 
transparent, effective and democratic Security Council, 
to be reformed on the basis of decision 62/557. In that 
regard, we believe that the five key issues identified in 
the decision, namely, the categories of membership, the 
question  of  the  veto,  regional  representation,  the  size 
and working methods of the Council and the relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly should 
be  addressed  as  a  package  to  reach  a  comprehensive 
solution. 
We  are  convinced 
that  a  broad-based  and 
comprehensive solution can be achieved by compromise, 
which  requires  f lexibility.  We  also  believe  that  the 
primary  responsibility  of  this  process  rests  with 
the  Member  States.  We  further  believe  that  African 
countries must be given special emphasis in the reform 
agenda so as to achieve a more equitable geographical 
representation.  With  this  perspective,  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  proposal  takes  into  account  the  legitimate 
aspirations of Africa. 
In  closing  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to  highlight 
once  again  that  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  will 
continue  to  work  constructively  with  all  stakeholders 
for a compromise and broad-based solution.
Mrs. Morgan (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this  joint 
debate on the annual report of the Security Council to 
the General Assembly and on Security Council reform. 
Similarly, I wish to thank the President of the Security 
Council,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  India,  for 
introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/67/2),  at  the  38th  meeting.  I  would  like  to  express 
our  special  gratitude  to  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Colombia,  since  his  delegation  was  in  charge  of 
drafting the report. We acknowledge Colombia’s effort 
to  make  the  Council’s  annual  report  more  analytical, 
addressing  the  concerns  of  the  membership  in  that 
regard. 
I wish to refer to the question of Security Council 
reform in more detail. First of all, I would like to express 
appreciation  for  the  letter  of  9  November  from  the 
President of the General Assembly, in which he informs 
us  of  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as 
facilitator  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  I  congratulate  Ambassador 
Tanin  on  his  appointment,  and  I  reiterate  to  him 
Mexico’s  support  for  the  development  of  an  authentic 
process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  agree 
with  the  Assembly  President  that  transparency  and 
predictability are essential elements in this process. 
The responsibility that the President of the General 
Assembly has entrusted to Ambassador Tanin is a very 
important  one.  The  role  of  a  facilitator,  especially  in 
such a sensitive area, consists of compiling the positions 
of  Member  States  and,  on  that  basis,  defining  a  path 
that  would  make  it  possible  to  generate  the  necessary 
agreements  to  achieve  a  solution  that  would  enjoy  the 
broadest possible support of the Member States. In order 
to  achieve  that,  the  facilitator  is  entirely  dependent 
on  the  f lexibility  that  States  show  with  regard  to  that 
common  goal.  Without  that  f lexibility  or  willingness 
to  compromise,  the  facilitator’s  room  for  manoeuvre 
is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  In  such  circumstances,  we 
can only expect the facilitator to interpret positions or, 
worse, to discard or minimize delegations’ proposals.
Since the start of the intergovernmental negotiation 
process  in  2009,  my  delegation,  together  with  the 
members of the Uniting for Consensus movement, has 
been  actively  advocating  the  so-called  compromise 
proposal,  whose  purpose  is  to  bring  the  positions 
of  Member  States  closer  together  in  order  to  reach  a 
solution  acceptable  to  everyone.  So  far,  however,  we 
have  not  seen  the  f lexibility  necessary  to  achieve  that 
compromise.  We  once  again  emphasize  the  urgency 
of  beginning  a  genuine  negotiating  process  as  soon 
as  possible,  one  in  which  delegations  do  not  content 
themselves  with  reiterating  their  customary  positions 
16 
12-59231
but become genuinely involved in a shared consideration 
of concrete alternatives that make it possible to address 
the concerns of the broad majority of Member States. We 
cannot achieve that goal while we are not ready to give 
up particular aspects of our original positions so as to 
arrive at a general solution that satisfies the membership 
and improves the representativeness, transparency and 
accountability of the Security Council.
the 
correcting 
Mexico is ready to begin that negotiation process. 
Together with Uniting for Consensus, we have presented 
a  compromise  proposal  that  ref lects  our  willingness 
to  be  f lexible  and  seek  a  compromise  solution.  We 
believe  that  it  can  be  achieved  if  we  address  three 
essential  elements:  improving  the  Security  Council’s 
representativeness, 
geographic 
imbalance that has worsened in recent years; instituting 
longer-term  seats  so  that  some  States  can  participate 
for  a  longer  time  in  the  Council  while  at  the  same 
time  preserving  accountability 
through  periodic 
elections; and improving and making more transparent 
the  Council’s  working  methods  and  decision-making 
processes,  including  the  question  of  the  veto.  We  are 
ready  to  discuss  the  details  of  the  proposal  within 
the  framework  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
and  in  any  format,  formal  or  informal,  that  seeks  a 
compromise  solution,  a  solution  that  is  the  result  of 
negotiations and not the imposition of one option over 
the  rest.  We  hope  soon  to  receive  a  clear  schedule  of 
meetings with that goal.
Mr. Och (Mongolia): At the outset, my delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  representative  of  India  for 
presenting,  at  our  38th  meeting,  the  annual  report 
of  the  Security  Council  (A/67/2),  and  Ambassador 
Néstor  Osorio  and  the  Colombian  delegation  for  their 
preparation of the report during Colombia’s presidency 
of  the  Council  in  July.  We  also  take  this  opportunity 
to  congratulate  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment 
as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters  related  to  the  Council.  Mongolia  commends 
Ambassador Tanin’s efforts to conduct a more in-depth 
discussion  of  Member  States’  initiatives  on  Security 
Council reform.
Eight  rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations 
have taken place in the informal plenary of the General 
Assembly  since  the  adoption  in  2008  of  its  historic 
decision 62/557. We have had the opportunity to discuss 
A/67/PV.39
our  principled  positions,  as  well  as  some  proposals, 
on  the  five  key  issues  of  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council. I believe it is very important that we 
continue our work on the issue.
countries, 
and  developed 
Mongolia  would  like  to  reiterate  its  principled 
position  on  advocating  a  just  and  equitable  expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of  membership,  whereby  due  representation  of  both 
developing 
including 
small  States,  is  ensured.  We  also  attach  paramount 
importance to the need to ensure equitable geographical 
distribution, with an emphasis on those groups that are 
underrepresented or not represented at all, particularly 
from  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  American  and  the 
Caribbean. My delegation believes that only expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of  membership  can  ensure  that  the  Council  ref lects 
contemporary world realities and can ensure greater and 
enhanced representation of developing countries. That 
will  serve  to  achieve  the  goal  of  a  more  accountable, 
representative and transparent Security Council.
Mongolia continues to share the view of the majority 
of Member States that the right to the veto needs to be 
abolished  eventually.  In  the  meantime,  its  use  should 
be restricted, in particular by stipulating that it should 
not be used under certain circumstances. As long as the 
veto right exists, it must be extended to new permanent 
members, who must have the same responsibilities and 
privileges as the existing permanent members.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  President’s 
desire  to  assist  and  facilitate  Member  States  in 
advancing the common agenda, including the ongoing 
Security Council reform process. And I wish to express 
my  delegation’s  sincere  hope  that,  under  his  strong 
leadership, the General Assembly will make meaningful 
progress in the current session towards timely reform of 
the Security Council.
Mr. Missaoui (Tunisia) (spoke in French): I would 
first  like  to  thank  the  President  for  making  Security 
Council reform one of his priorities, and to assure him 
of  my  country’s  firm  support  for  every  effort  on  his 
part to conclude that process during the current session 
and under his presidency. I would also like to commend 
the facilitator of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform, the Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  for  his  untiring 
efforts and for the way in which he has conducted those 
negotiations, and to congratulate him on the renewal of 
his mandate during the current session.
12-59231
17
A/67/PV.39
Regarding the question of equitable representation 
on  the  Security  Council  and  the  expansion  of  its 
membership  — 
the  subject  of  my  delegation’s 
statement  —  I  associate  myself  with  the  statements 
made  at  the  38th  meeting  by  the  representatives  of 
Algeria and Egypt on behalf of the African Group and 
the Non-Aligned Movement, respectively.
Tunisia  believes 
that 
the 
the  only  suitable 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  form 
institutional 
framework,  tasked  by  the  General  Assembly  with 
dealing with the issue of Security Council reform in an 
open, inclusive and transparent manner in order to find 
a  solution  and  to  garner  the  widest  possible  political 
support among Member States, in accordance with the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  relevant  Assembly  decisions,  particularly  decision 
62/557. While welcoming the results of the most recent 
stage  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  on 
the question of equitable representation on the Security 
Council and expanding its membership,  results based 
on  Member  States’  proposals,  I  would  like  to  declare 
my  delegation’s  complete  willingness  to  continue 
its  support  for  the  progress  made  in  the  negotiations 
within the framework of a process that should continue 
to  display  the  transparency,  the  inclusive  nature  and 
spirit of consensus that have characterized it so far.
The main goal of that process should be a Security 
Council that ref lects the political and economic realities 
of our world today and that has the legitimacy necessary 
to  act  on  behalf  of  the  international  community  in 
accomplishing  its  mandate,  all  in  accordance  with 
the  Charter.  Enhancing  the  Council’s  legitimacy  will 
undoubtedly  lead  to  more  effective  decisions,  more 
realistic mandates and more consistent implementation 
of decisions. 
The  reform  must  be  thorough,  transparent  and 
balanced.  It  must  ensure  that  the  Council’s  agenda 
ref lects  the  needs  and  interests  of  both  developed  and 
developing countries. It must also address all substantive 
issues  concerning,  inter  alia,  the  composition  of  the 
Council, its regional representation, working methods, 
agenda  and  decision-making  process,  including,  in 
particular,  the  right  of  veto,  in  order  to  ensure  the 
broadest  possible  political  agreement  among 
the 
Member States.
circumstances become a private club of countries with 
particular privileges, or be seen as such. That would be 
a real danger for its resolutions and their effectiveness, 
as well as for the legitimacy of the Council’s handling 
of sensitive issues such as those related to international 
peace and security.
At  a  time  when  the  world  is  undergoing  profound 
transformations  and  major  geostrategic  changes,  the 
Council’s  permanent  members  themselves  recognize 
the imperative need to adapt international relations and 
the  dynamics  that  govern  them.  The  Council,  being 
at  the  heart  of  those  dynamics  as  the  body  having  the 
ultimate task of maintaining peace and security in the 
world,  certainly  must  not  be  spared  any  adjustment 
or  adaptation  to  current  regional  and  international 
realities.
Mr. Balé (Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Those goals will be achieved only by enlarging the 
Council,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  developing 
countries.  Similarly,  the  size  of  the  restructured 
Council must ref lect all sensitivities of the international 
community. 
In  that  context,  Tunisia  continues  to  strongly 
support  the  position  of  the  African  Union  as  ref lected 
in the Ezulwini Consensus on the reform of the Security 
Council and the Sirte Declaration. We believe that it is 
time to correct the current situation, which has always 
deprived the African continent of a permanent presence 
in  the  Security  Council.  We  support  any  formula  that 
would  give  the  developing  countries  in  general  and 
Africa  in  particular  the  place  they  deserve  in  the 
Council. 
In  fact,  Tunisia,  which  has  participated  since 
the  1960s  in  many  peacekeeping  operations  and  has 
contributed  through  its  contingents  or  its  diplomacy 
to resolving conf licts, knows very well the challenges 
brought  about  by  wars  and  hotbeds  of  tension.  My 
country remains convinced that a Security Council with 
such restricted membership and such rigid mechanisms 
will  be  unable  to  meet  either  current  needs  for  a 
rapid,  effective  and  appropriate  response  to  emerging 
conf licts, or the aspirations of peoples of the world who 
see  in  the  United  Nations  and  its  executive  body  the 
only recourse when all hope has vanished.
My country’s delegation is of the view that the end 
point of any Council reform must be the strengthening 
of  that  body’s  equitable  representation,  credibility 
and  effectiveness.  The  Council  must  under  no 
I  will  conclude  by  raising  the  need  to  consider,  in 
any  reform  effort,  the  relations  between  the  Security 
Council  and  the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, and the need for the Council to fully respect the 
18 
12-59231
A/67/PV.39
prerogatives  and  functions  of  each  of  those  organs,  in 
particular the General Assembly. Those issues must be 
considered  with  the  same  importance  as  other  aspects 
of the reform process, and in an integrated manner.
non-governmental  organization  Platform  for  Change, 
which  aims  to  educate  and  inform  the  diplomatic 
community  and  civil  society  on  the  important  issues 
and events surrounding United Nations reform. 
Mr.  Grima  (Malta):  Few  would  deny  the  need  to 
reform  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  better  ref lect 
the  world  of  the  twenty-first  century.  At  the  same 
time,  20  years  into  a  process  of  discussion  among  the 
Organization’s  membership,  meaningful  progress, 
regrettably,  remains  an  elusive  goal.  Member  States, 
in  particular  small  and  medium-sized  States,  continue 
to  search  for  ways  to  reform  the  Council  to  make  it 
more representative, more efficient and effective, more 
accountable  and  more  transparent  in  order  to  better 
address the challenges of our time.
Malta  has  formed  part  of  Uniting  for  Consensus 
since  its  earliest  days.  I  wish  to  recall  the  basic 
principles  underpinning  our  position  on  how  best  to 
move our discussion forward. 
Malta  remains  of  the  firm  view  that  the  five  key 
issues  agreed  to  by  consensus  in  decision  62/557  of 
15  September  2008  are  interlinked.  In  maintaining 
those  five  key  issues  as  one  component,  we  would 
ensure that the reform of the Security Council would be 
conducted in a coherent and cohesive manner. In turn, 
that would safeguard the interests of all Member States 
and provide a reformed Council with the much-needed 
ownership of the broader membership.
Security  Council  membership  must  be  more 
ref lective  of  present-day  realities.  Therefore,  like 
many others, Malta strongly believes that the Council’s 
membership should be increased. I would like to recall 
that  since  the  last  Security  Council  enlargement,  in 
1965, 76 countries have joined our Organization as new 
Member  States.  Thus  it  is  logical  that  one  of  the  key 
issues  that  need  to  be  resolved  is  the  question  of  the 
enlargement of the reformed Security Council so as to 
take into account the larger membership of 193 States. 
The position of small and medium-sized States in an 
expanded  Security  Council  should  figure  prominently 
in  our  discussions.  Only  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
proposal  has  specific  non-permanent  seats  for  both 
small  and  medium-sized  States.  It  is  also  statistically 
the  most  advantageous  proposal  for  all  small  and 
medium-sized States, as well as for the great majority of 
large States. That fact is not only stated by the Uniting 
for  Consensus  group,  it  is  also  very  well  ref lected  in 
the table prepared by the recently formed independent 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  clearly 
shown  that  there  is  at  least  agreement  on  one  issue 
among  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
and  that  is  that  there  should  be  an  increase  in  the 
non-permanent category.
As  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council, 
it  is  crucial  that  the  Council  respond  more  rapidly 
to  emerging  situations  by  improving  in  its  working 
methods. There is a need to accelerate the work of the 
Council’s  subsidiary  bodies,  including  the  sanctions 
committees  and  working  groups,  especially  by  giving 
more  attention  to  cases  presented  to  them  by  Member 
States. Regarding effectiveness, my delegation feels that 
the Council must deal with issues, especially those of a 
long-standing nature, in a fair and balanced way, make 
less  use  of  the  veto  and  consider  the  interests  of  the 
wider United Nations membership in decisions it takes. 
It is recognized that many of those issues depend on the 
political  will  of  the  Council’s  permanent  members,  as 
they have the veto power to approve or to not approve 
any changes to the Council’s working methods. 
Notwithstanding, many of us believe that improving 
the working methods would, in turn, have a direct and 
positive effect on the question of the transparency and 
efficiency  of  the  Council  itself.  My  delegation  feels 
that  all  Member  States  should  be  given  the  possibility 
of  knowing  more  about  issues  and  receive  prompt, 
relevant  and  current  information  on  matters  brought 
to  the  Council’s  attention.  In  addition,  to  the  extent 
possible,  there  should  be  fewer  closed  meetings  and 
more  open  briefings  and  consultations.  Permanent 
members  should  be  encouraged  to  work  more  closely 
with the majority of the Member States and to consider 
more seriously the suggestions for improvement in the 
working methods.
Decision  62/557  lays  the  basis  for  a  negotiated 
solution  based  on  the  five  key  issues.  The  smooth 
transition  of  those  discussions  and  negotiations  to 
the  Assembly’s  sixty-seventh  session  augurs  well 
for  our  deliberations.  My  delegation  believes  that  it 
is  important  that  the  achievements  of  the  Member 
State-driven  process  not  be  lost,  and  we  strongly 
appeal  to  delegations  not  to  take  unilateral  initiatives 
or  piecemeal  approaches  that  will  weaken  the  process 
rather than bring us together.
12-59231
19
A/67/PV.39
that 
the  role 
My  delegation  appreciates 
the 
President’s predecessors have played in trying to bring 
the views of various delegations closer together and, in 
so doing, to define and agree on an approach that would 
do justice to all Member States. We also appreciate the 
wide consultations which the President has conducted in 
recent weeks with Member States on the way forward, 
which  underscores  his  understanding  and  insight  on 
what he so rightly described in his 9 November letter as 
a complex and sensitive matter. 
I  congratulate  the  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  on  his 
reappointment.  As  a  neutral  and  impartial  actor,  his 
main role should be to build confidence among Member 
States  and  promote  consultations  with  predictability 
and full transparency. 
The  President’s  task  in  guiding  our  deliberations 
in  the  coming  weeks  will  certainly  not  be  without  its 
difficulties,  and  in  his  effort  he  will  have  Malta’s  full 
support.  Uniting  for  Consensus  has  always  shown 
f lexibility  and  a  readiness  to  compromise.  We  have 
acted  constructively  in  the  past  and  will  do  so  in  the 
future.
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke in 
Spanish): First of all, I would like to thank Ambassador 
Tanin  for  his  tireless  efforts  and  commitment  to  the 
matter before us. 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
The  delegation  of  Nicaragua  would  like  to  align 
itself  with  the  statement  made  at  the  38th  meeting 
by 
Jamaica, 
Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of 
the  group  of  countries  that  supported  draft  resolution 
A/61/L.69/Rev.1,  which  has  grown  to  become  the 
largest, most diverse and most representative group in 
these  negotiations.  At  every  stage  of  our  negotiations, 
the L.69 group has clearly presented its proposals and 
shown  its  interest  and  its  willingness  to  look  at  the 
approaches  and  all  existing  positions  in  order  to  enter 
once and for all into real negotiations and thus comply 
with  the  decisions  of  the  General  Assembly  on  urgent 
reforms in the Security Council.
The  General  Assembly  is  the  most  representative 
and most legitimate organ of the United Nations, and we 
are thus grateful to be able to express our preferences 
on this matter in this organ.
Nicaragua 
commitment 
to  the  Organization’s  reform  process  and  to  the 
equitable 
intergovernmental 
negotiations 
firm 
reaffirms 
its 
on 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council. Despite having worked on this topic 
for more than 20 years, we have not made the progress 
that  the  urgency  of  the  case  requires.  We  hope  that 
delegations will make a commitment to work and reach 
an agreement on the Security Council. We believe that 
we  cannot  wait  any  longer  to  take  action  and  achieve 
the  long-awaited  reforms.  Allow  me  to  reiterate  the 
commitment  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua  to  working 
actively and constructively on this very timely matter.
Nicaragua  is  pleased  once  again  to  reiterate  its 
position  on  how  to  achieve  a  Security  Council  that  is 
more  democratic,  equitable  and  representative.  As  we 
have  established  on  different  occasions,  it  is  urgent  to 
reform  the  Council  in  a  thorough  and  comprehensive 
way.  At  the  Assembly’s  sixty-sixth  session,  there 
were  eight  rounds  of  exchange  of  positions  among 
the  States,  where  the  fairness  of  our  positions  was 
heard  and  where  those  positions  gained  the  support 
of  an  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  in 
the  intergovernmental  process.  During  that  session, 
Member  States  had  the  opportunity  to  meet  with 
different  groups  in  order  to  have  an  overview  of  the 
positions  of  every  region,  which  is  indispensable 
for  doing  good  work  and  for  coming  up  with  a  good 
proposal for making progress in this area and thus help 
to strengthen the Security Council. 
We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  be  more 
specific when it comes to the future of the negotiations. 
It would be regrettable if we just overlook the exercise 
of  the  last  eight  rounds  of  talks  and  start  again  in  the 
current  session  another  round  of  discussions  with  the 
groups and States repeating their same positions. 
Nicaragua  feels  that  it  is  crucial  to  have  a  fair 
increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent 
members of the Security Council in order to achieve an 
equitable  balance  in  the  Council.  The  increase  in  the 
number  of  members  could  be  between  25  and  27.  The 
increase  in  the  number  of  permanent  members  should 
take  into  account  the  equitable  representation  of  all 
regions,  especially  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
and  Africa,  regions  which,  despite  the  fact  that  they 
have a large number of Members in the United Nations, 
have  always  lacked  permanent  representation  in  the 
Security Council.
We would like to take advantage of this opportunity 
to refer to the veto of the permanent members. The great 
majority  of  Member  States  have  clearly  shown  their 
preference  to  abolish  the  veto.  Nicaragua  fully  shares 
20 
12-59231
that position. While negotiations are continuing on this 
item, the new permanent members of the Council to be 
elected should have the same privileges and prerogatives 
as those held by current permanent members.
It  is  our  wish  that  the  aforementioned  proposals 
be  taken  into  account  and  acted  upon  as  soon  as 
possible.  Our  demands  are  not  excessive;  on  the 
contrary,  they  are  timely  if  we  want  to  improve  the 
Organization.  Nicaragua  again  commits 
to 
working along those lines and to doing all that is within 
its reach to achieve the crucial objective that is the full 
democratization of this Organization. 
itself 
Mr. Khan  (Indonesia):  I  would  like  first  to  thank 
the  President  for  convening  today’s  important  debate 
on  the  two  interconnected  topics.  We  thank  India,  as 
the  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  along 
with other Council members, for presenting the annual 
report of the Security Council (A/67/2).
On  the  topic  of  the  Council’s  report,  Indonesia 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Egypt at the 38th meeting on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement.
The 
large  number  of  Council 
resolutions, 
presidential  statements  and  field  visits  during  the 
period  under  review  underlines  the  seriousness  of 
current challenges to global peace and security. It also 
underlines  that  the  Security  Council’s  role  remains  as 
crucial as ever and that all members of the international 
community should fulfil their responsibilities to assist 
the Council in defusing problems and building lasting 
peace.
Indonesia  commends  the  Security  Council  for  its 
actions  in  many  of  the  cases  mentioned  in  the  report. 
At  the  same  time,  it  is  dismayed  at  the  lack  of  action 
and the Council’s perceived lack of evenhandedness on 
certain issues.
The  lingering  question  of  Palestine  is  a  major 
case in point. We very much hope that the situation of 
Palestine  will  be  dealt  with  equitably  by  the  Council 
and that the veto will not stand in the way of enabling 
the Palestinian people to realize their legitimate rights 
and aspirations. 
Too much bloodshed has occurred in Syria as well. 
We reiterate that all parties in Syria must immediately 
cease  the  violence,  ensure  the  delivery  and  access  of 
humanitarian  aid,  and  fully  observe  international 
humanitarian  law.  A  Syrian-led  political  process  is 
A/67/PV.39
the  way  forward,  and  for  that,  both  sides  must  create 
a  space  for  a  genuine,  credible  and  mediated  political 
dialogue.
the  Security  Council  with 
It  is  vital  that  the  General  Assembly,  whose 
members  entrust 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  have 
a  better  understanding  of  how  the  Council  handles 
matters.  While 
the  Council’s  annual  report  has 
improved in providing the context for the various issues 
it  considers,  there  is  room  for  more  analysis,  with  a 
description of rationales, particularly when the Council 
could  not  take  action.  We  therefore  also  support  the 
notion that explanations of vetoes in the Council should 
be circulated to all Member States. A more meaningful 
Council  report,  setting  out  the  reasoning  behind  its 
actions, will also help to elicit support for its decisions 
among  the  wider  membership.  Working  within  the 
mandates of the principal organs, greater transparency, 
interface  and  cohesiveness  in  and  among  the  organs 
will lead to better outcomes for global peace and well-
being.
That brings me to the second topic of today, which for 
us means the imperative to undertake a comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council that makes it effective, 
accountable,  democratic  and  representative  of  the 
world’s  plurality.  Indonesia  supports  the  rollover  of 
the intergovernmental negotiation process to the sixty-
seventh session and commends the work of Ambassador 
Tanin. Indonesia welcomes his reappointment as Chair 
of the intergovernmental negotiations. We will continue 
to  work  closely  with  all  Member  States  in  order  to 
achieve tangible results in the Council’s reform.
the  stakes 
in 
Understandably, 
the  Council’s 
reform  are  high.  The  meetings  on  specific  issues  that 
Ambassador  Tanin  convened  during  the  sixty-sixth 
session yielded an in-depth deliberation on the specific 
proposals  by  the  various  groups  and  were  useful  for 
further defining and advocating their perspectives.
fundamental  differences  still 
Although  there  is  more  clarity  on  the  various 
proposals, 
remain, 
particularly  on  the  issues  of  membership  categories, 
size and the veto. Greater political f lexibility is required 
from  all  sides  to  move  to  points  of  convergence.  A 
viable  way  to  enable  meaningful  advancement  needs 
to  be  explored.  We  believe  that  an  intermediate 
approach  with  a  clear  review  mechanism  should  be 
explored  in  greater  detail,  as  should  a  realistic  option 
for  achieving  tangible  and  consensus-based  Council 
12-59231
21
A/67/PV.39
reform. A number of countries have expressed a similar 
view.
Council  seats.  The  structural  reform  of  the  Council 
should represent a modern and realistic world.  
Indonesia  emphasizes  the  need  to  consider  all 
five  key  reform  issues  together,  as  an  interrelated 
package.  As  agreed  in  decision  62/557,  the  reform 
should  be  undertaken  in  a  comprehensive  manner 
that  encompasses  the  five  key  issues.  The  integrity 
of  that  consensus-based  decision  should  be  upheld. 
Any  piecemeal  approaches  that  address  only  one 
or  two  key  reform  issues  and  includes  a  particular 
presupposition with regard to the Council’s final shape 
and representation should be avoided.
We  should  also  not  generate  any  parallel  United 
Nations  tracks,  which  may  destabilize  the  already 
established  negotiating  framework  and  create  further 
political hurdles. The reform of the Council should take 
place  through  a  consensus-based  formula,  or  at  least 
enjoy the greatest possible political acceptance, that is, 
well beyond a two-thirds majority.
In conclusion, I reiterate the Indonesian delegation’s 
commitment  to  continuing  to  constructively  engage 
and  contribute  towards  a  comprehensively  reformed 
Security Council.
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  At 
the  outset, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Hardeep  Singh  Puri,  Permanent  Representative 
of  India  and  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
the  month  of  November,  for  introducing  the  annual 
report  of  the  Council  (A/67/2)  at  the  preceding 
meeting.  It  is  very  important  to  encourage  better 
interaction  between 
the  wider 
membership.  That  would  benefit  the  United  Nations 
as  a  whole,  particularly  the  developing  world,  which 
constitutes  the  largest  group.  We  also  congratulate 
Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment  as  chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  for  his  leadership  in  guiding  its  complex 
deliberations.
the  Council  and 
that 
Kazakhstan  recognizes 
the  geographical 
imbalance in the Security Council and limitations in its 
operations  still  exist.  Kazakhstan  therefore  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  reform  of  the  United  Nations, 
primarily the Council, on both those fronts. With a view 
to  enhancing  regional  representation,  my  delegation 
reconfirms  its  position  on  increasing  the  Council’s 
membership  from  the  existing  15  members  to  25  by 
establishing  six  permanent  and  four  non-permanent 
Moving  the  negotiations  forward  demands  a  new 
understanding  to  bridge  the  divergences  among  the 
vast majority of Member States. We need to bridge the 
positions  of  all  the  groups  concerned.  We  therefore 
call  for  a  spirit  of  compromise  and  inclusiveness 
in  order  to  achieve  the  widest  possible  consensus.  We 
would  like  to  propose  the  following  recommendations 
for full consideration. 
The proposals of the most recent intergovernmental 
negotiations  regarding  the  veto  right,  with  all  its 
implications,  should  be  carefully  reviewed  so  that  a 
viable solution can be found. We believe that a change 
in the working methods does not require an amendment 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  or  a  two-thirds 
majority  to  be  adopted.  Kazakhstan  believes  that  any 
improvement in the working methods will not limit the 
power  of  the  Council  or  subordinate  it  to  the  General 
Assembly,  but  rather  will  strengthen  the  Council  to 
make it more efficient.
In  addition,  Kazakhstan  suggests  some  further 
steps  to  achieve  the  outcomes  we  are  seeking.  It  is 
critical to have all the proposals by Member States on 
the  table  in  order  to  achieve  greater  transparency  and 
accountability and fairer participation; increased access 
to information through open briefings, thematic debates 
and  consultations  with  non-members  of  the  Council; 
the involvement of troop-contributing countries in the 
decision-making processes on peacekeeping operations; 
and  easy  availability  of  provisional  agendas,  draft 
resolutions and presidential statements.
It is equally imperative to strengthen the mechanism 
for  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly,  since  the  latter  represents  the 
interests  of  all  Member  States.  In  particular,  the  most 
crucial  unresolved  disputes  in  the  Council  could  be 
discussed  in  the  Assembly  to  ascertain  the  positions 
of the majority of Member States on vital issues so as 
to make possible a more informed adoption of Council 
resolutions.
We  welcome  the  measure  to  increase  the  number 
of open Council meetings and to reduce the number of  
closed meetings to ensure greater transparency. That is 
particularly  important  for  countries  when  the  Council 
deliberates  the  cases  of  their  immediate  neighbouring 
countries or others in the region, given the relevant input 
they can provide and in order to assess the interrelated 
22 
12-59231
impacts  and  consequences.  States  not  members  of 
the  Council    need  to  know  first-hand  and  objectively 
the  decisions  and  positions  of  Council  members,  not 
through the lens of the mass media, with its distortions.
in 
the 
to  engage 
To  conclude,  I  once  again  express  Kazakhstan’s 
commitment 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  work  in  a  spirit  of  compromise  and 
cooperation  in  order  to  speedily  finalize  Security 
Council  reform.  The  reform  process  cannot  wait  very 
much longer, given the new emerging global geopolitical 
realities  and  socioeconomic  developments,  which  call 
for a realistic and results-driven approach.
Mrs. Namgyel  (Bhutan):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
at  the  38th  meeting  by  Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  who  spoke  on 
behalf  of  the  group  of  countries  that  sponsored  draft 
resolution A/61/L.69, of which the Kingdom of Bhutan 
is a member. We believe that the points he made ref lect 
not only the views of the largest and most representative 
group working on agenda item 117 but also clearly point 
the way forward on the most important tasks facing the 
United Nations.
While  seven  years  have  passed  since  the  World 
Summit’s call for early reform of the Security Council, 
each passing day adds to the obsolescence of a system 
devised for a world that, after more than 60 years, has 
changed beyond recognition. My delegation recognizes 
the  various  other  groups  that  are  also  engaged  in 
trying  to  contribute  to  moving  the  process  forward. 
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express 
its  deep  appreciation  for  the  Herculean  efforts  of 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan. We welcome 
his  reappointment  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.
My delegation is deeply encouraged by the progress 
being  made  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform  over  the  past  few  years.  The 
progress,  however  modest,  must  be  seen  in  the  light 
of  the  fact  that  the  arrangements  we  agree  to  must 
accommodate  the  views  of  193  Member  States.  My 
delegation  would  therefore  urge  that  there  be  greater 
effort  and  negotiations  in  good  faith  so  as  to  arrive  at 
consensus on that very important issue.
Bhutan  aspired  to  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the 
Council at the recent elections, and we deeply value the 
experience  we  had  in  interacting  with  every  Member 
State  during  the  campaign.  We  firmly  believe  that 
A/67/PV.39
our  experience  is  instructive  and  relevant  to  the  more 
than  half  of  the  membership  of  the  United  Nations 
that are small States. It has also further reaffirmed the 
importance of having a larger and more representative 
Security Council that can provide opportunities for all 
countries, regardless of their size or economic capacity, 
to contribute to promoting and enhancing international 
peace and security.
My  delegation  therefore  believes  that  the  L.69 
group’s  position  on  each  of  the  five  key  issues  in 
decision  62/557  provides  a  firm  basis  for  greatly 
improving the efficiency, transparency and legitimacy 
of 
the  Security  Council  and  bringing  about  a 
transformation that would enable the United Nations to 
deal  most  effectively  with  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
international community in the twenty-first century. 
Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  thank  Ambassador 
Hardeep  Singh  Puri,  Permanent  Representative  of 
India, for introducing the report of the Security Council 
(A/67/2) on its work during the past year, as well as the 
Ambassador  of  Colombia  and  his  team  for  their  hard 
work in putting the report together.
Mr. Šćepanović (Montenegro): At the outset, allow 
me to thank the representative of India for introducing 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/67/2)  at 
the  38th  meeting,  and  the  delegation  of  Colombia  for 
preparing  it.  However,  I  will  limit  my  intervention 
to  agenda  item  117,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters”. 
I would like to thank the President for his efforts to 
advance the Security Council reform process during the 
sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also 
wish  to  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin, on his reappointment 
as chair of the intergovernmental negotiations.
Security Council reform is an ongoing process that 
should  neither  be  limited  in  time  nor  unnecessarily 
delayed. That having been said, yet another round of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  is  now  behind  us.  Our 
exchanges within the framework of the eighth round of 
negotiations proved to be very useful and practical, as 
they  helped  us  all  to  attain  a  better  and  more  detailed 
understanding of each of the five proposals put forward. 
Thanks  to  the  extensive  deliberations  that  took 
place  in  previous  rounds,  especially  the  last,  I  dare  to 
say  that  there  are  really  no  more  unknowns  in  any  of 
the proposals. On the contrary, we have learned about 
12-59231
23
A/67/PV.39
and  become  very  familiar  with  even  their  smallest 
details and particularities. For a process as complex as 
that of Security Council reform, that is very important. 
But  there  comes  a  time  when  one  must  ask  whether 
pursuing  further  deliberations  in  this  fashion  would 
make  any  sense,  because  even  though  we  call  the 
process intergovernmental negotiations, we have yet to 
engage in real, substantive negotiations. 
What we have seen so far is a repetition of the same 
or  slightly  modified  rhetoric  that  has  led  us  to  a point 
where we must admit that we have hardly moved from 
the starting point. It is obvious and urgently important 
for the relevance of the Security Council that we cannot 
continue with business as usual. It is up to us, the Member 
States, together with Ambassador Tanin, to find a new 
approach in order to engage in a more constructive and 
results-oriented  manner  that  will  bring  us  closer  to 
the  desired  reform,  that  is,  a  reform  with  the  broadest 
possible  acceptance  with  respect  to  all  five  of  its 
aspects. In that context, it could prove useful to strive 
to  develop  a  base  for  a  possible  compromise  solution 
with a common denominator that could be further built 
upon.  A  building  block  with  that  orientation  could 
be  the  African  common  position  and  the  historical 
injustice inf licted upon the African continent.
remind  ourselves 
We  must  constantly 
that 
negotiating  is  a  process  of  give  and  take.  We  all  need 
to  show  a  high  degree  of  f lexibility  and  pragmatism 
in  order  to  create  an  atmosphere  of  trust  and  good 
faith  that  will  allow  us  to  take  concrete  steps  towards 
accomplishing  our  ultimate  goal.  Keeping  the  big 
picture of overall reform in sight, we cannot focus just 
on self-interest and aspirations; rather, we have to take 
into  account  those  of  others  as  well,  if  we  truly  want 
to  make  a  breakthrough.  In  addition,  in  keeping  with 
our  position,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  we 
be  realistic  and  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  some  of  the 
existing proposals, if not individually, then as part of the 
larger incorporated package, are definitely not feasible 
and  could  indeed  turn  out  to  be  counterproductive  to 
the work of Security Council.
We  should  be  under  no  illusion  —  getting  to  a 
package  solution  on  Security  Council  reform  will  be 
extremely  difficult  and  a  rather  challenging  task.  I 
believe  that  every  single  Member  State  has  a  stake  in 
this matter and wants to see the Council reformed in a 
way that makes it more transparent and representative 
and  better  suited  to  cope  with  the  global  security 
challenges that are not lacking today’s world. 
Let  us  therefore  leave  behind  old  practices  and 
methods  that  have  proved  to  be  insufficient  and 
ineffective. We  cannot  gain  by  exploiting  each  other’s 
weaknesses.  Instead,  we  must  be  innovative.  We 
must  explore  and  unite  our  strengths  and  advantages, 
because  a  reformed  and  improved  Security  Council  is 
our common goal and necessity.
Mr.  Sareer 
(Maldives):  Let  me  begin  by 
expressing  our  profound  appreciation  to  Ambassador 
Hardeep  Singh  Puri,  Permanent  Representative  of 
India  and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/67/2)  at  the  38th  meeting.  I  would  also  like  to 
welcome  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  as 
chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. Under his 
chairmanship,  we  look  forward  to  a  very  substantive 
discussion on the issue of the comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council  during  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Maldives  and  other  Member  States  have,  on 
numerous  occasions  over  the  past  decades,  expressed 
their desire to see wide-ranging reforms of the Security 
Council  and  to  make  the  Organization  more  effective. 
Such reforms have now become an integral part of the 
Organization as it addresses the challenges and difficult 
tasks before the international community today. 
As we have heard during the debate, there is a clear 
need to update the configuration and working methods 
of the Security Council to make it more representative 
and transparent. In that regard, comprehensive Security 
Council reform lies at the heart of our efforts to revamp 
an  international  structure  that  came  into  being  more 
than 67 years ago. 
For  the  United  Nations  to  make  progress  as  an 
institution  that  is  effective  and  credible  in  the  eyes  of 
the world, the Security Council must be expanded and 
restructured to ref lect today’s geopolitical realities. The 
Maldives  is  of  the  view  that  including  both  India  and 
Japan in any future composition of the Security Council 
remains an important and fundamental prerequisite for 
the reform and effective functioning of the Council in 
the twenty-first century.
We  welcome  the  President’s  statement  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and 
his  commitment  to  finding  a  just  and  agreed-on 
methodology  to  move  things  forward.  My  delegation 
24 
12-59231
commends  the  recent  positive  results  achieved  during 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  matter 
and  stresses  the  need  to  maintain  the  momentum  in 
addressing  specific  areas  of  reform.  The  thematic 
rounds  of  discussions  held  during  the  past  session, 
dedicated to Member States’ initiatives, were extremely 
helpful.  The  frank  and  open  discussions  provided  an 
opportunity  for  Member  States  to  assess  the  various 
viewpoints  being  presented  and  to  identify  the  points 
of convergence and divergence in the five key areas of 
reform.
While  the  Council’s  composition  remains  a  key 
priority, we believe that its working methods must also 
be  improved  with  a  view  to  restoring  the  Council’s 
credibility, authority and legitimacy within the United 
Nations system. In that regard, we applaud the initiative 
taken  by  the  group  of  five  small  States  earlier  in  the 
year, which put forward a useful guide in improving the 
working methods of the Council (see A/66/L.42/Rev.2).
We  believe  that  the  expanded  membership  of  the 
new  Council  should  come  from  both  developing  and 
developed  countries  and  should  include  countries  that 
ref lect  the  diverse  membership  of  the  United  Nations. 
However,  geographic  representation  alone  should 
not  be  a  deciding  factor  in  determining  permanent 
membership on the Council. Other considerations, such 
as a country’s ability to contribute to the maintenance 
of international peace and security and its commitment 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
democracy, should be taken on board.
Maldives  firmly  believes  that  the  Assembly  must 
be  fully  committed  to  implementing  the  provisions  of 
its  decision  62/557  and  subsequent  decisions,  in  letter 
and  in  spirit,  in  order  to  carry  out  comprehensive  and 
wide-ranging reforms of the Security Council. We fully 
support the stand taken by the President of the General 
Assembly  to  advance  the  reform  process  through  a 
constructive  and  consultative  process  in  informal 
plenary  meetings.  Furthermore,  we  call  for  the  widest 
possible  political  acceptance  by  Member  States  in  the 
negotiation  process.  We  believe  that  a  failure  to  reach 
consensus should not prevent action on these important 
reforms.
Before I conclude, I would like to express my hope 
that  consensus  can  be  achieved  on  a  solution  to  the 
issues  of  the  general  reform  and  composition  of  the 
Security Council. We must be united in our resolve and 
pragmatic in our approach in order to break the impasse 
that  has  caused  United  Nations  reform  to  stagnate 
A/67/PV.39
for  the  past  20  years.  Only  by  working  together  can 
we  achieve  a  Security  Council  that  is  representative, 
efficient  and  able  to  deal  with  the  complex  challenges 
of the world we live in.
Mr. Gálvez (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): I would like 
to begin by thanking the Permanent Representative of 
Colombia for preparing the annual report of the Security 
Council  (A/67/2)  and  the  representative  of  India  for 
introducing  it,  at  the  38th  meeting,  in  his  capacity  as 
President of the Council for the month of November. 
The  presentation  of  the  report  by  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly is very important, as 
the report is a record of the Council’s work and chief ly 
because  it  provides  transparency  with  regard  to  the 
management  of  the  Council  and  has  the  potential  to 
enable improvement in some procedures that need it.
While recognizing the effort and progress made by 
the  Security  Council  and  the  delegation  of  Colombia 
in preparing the report, we are convinced that there is 
room for the report to grow and recast itself as a more 
substantive  document.  It  is  a  good  record  of  meetings 
and  issues  dealt  with,  but  in  its  current  format  it  does 
not enable us to understand the development of an issue, 
and even less to explain the logic and reasoning applied 
in any action undertaken.
To be sure, there have been improvements in recent 
years, but we cannot be complacent about the situation. 
There is nothing preventing us from moving in the right 
direction and insisting, for instance, on the importance 
of  coordinating  the  Security  Council’s  work  with 
that  of  other  United  Nations  agencies  and  of  regional 
groups  or  of  listening  to  special  representatives  at  the 
right  time  and  holding  more  interactive  debates  and 
consultations. We are convinced that making progress 
in  that  direction,  which  allows  for  the  smooth  and 
f lexible  exchange  of  information,  is  a  good  tool  for 
preventing  potential  conf licts.  It  can  make  possible  a 
global and comprehensive vision in which the interests 
and concerns of the various stakeholders involved in a 
particular issue are recognized by the Security Council 
and can, to a greater or lesser degree, be incorporated 
into its decisions.
Adequate and smooth communication between the 
Security Council and the General Assembly that respects 
their particular areas of competence is fundamental to 
the maintenance of international peace and security, in 
accordance  with  the  principles  and  central  objectives 
of the Charter of the United Nations in a more complex 
12-59231
25
A/67/PV.39
and  dynamic  international  environment.  However,  we 
regret  the  decision  to  return  to  joint  consideration  of 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  question  of 
equitable representation on and increased membership 
in  the  Council  and  related  matters.  In  our  opinion, 
keeping them separate would have allowed for a better 
discussion and analysis of both.
With regard to agenda item 117, entitled “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”,  my  country  is  grateful  for  the  President’s 
letter  of  9  November,  which  expresses  his  personal 
commitment to this subject during his term. We welcome 
the decision to reappoint the Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  to  lead  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Council  reform. 
After  the  eighth  round  of  those  negotiations,  we 
hope  that  during  the  current  session  we  can  show  the 
political will and f lexibility that will enable us to make 
concrete progress with reform that is as essential as it 
is desired. Ambassador Tanin can count on our support 
and cooperation.
As we have stated repeatedly in this forum and during 
the recent intergovernmental negotiations, my country 
is a firm believer in an expanded Security Council and 
reaffirms  its  position  on  the  need  to  have  equitable 
representation  within  the  Council.  In  that  regard,  we 
support an increase in the number of both permanent and 
non-permanent  members,  with  a  particular  preference 
for  developing  countries,  even  if  the  right  to  the  veto 
is not extended to the new members. We offer bilateral 
support  for  the  admission  of  Brazil,  Germany,  India 
and  Japan  to  permanent  membership  in  the  Council. 
Similarly,  we  believe  that  the  underrepresentation  of 
Africa  in  the  Council’s  current  makeup  must  be  dealt 
with.  The  number  of  African  countries  and  the  fact 
that  a  large  percentage  of  the  matters  with  which  the 
Council deals are related to situations in that continent 
make a greater African presence essential. In addition, 
we  reiterate  our  commitment  on  this  issue  and  would 
like  to  emphasize  the  need  for  more  transparent  and 
participatory working methods in order to enhance the 
capacity and legitimacy of the Organization. 
During  the  negotiations  round  table,  we  made  an 
urgent  appeal  to  delegations  to  abandon  absolutist 
positions and make progress on the serious and broad-
ranging  discussion  that  allow  us  to  bring  together  the 
perspectives  and  aspirations  of  Member  States  in  a 
democratic  and  respectful  way.  Today  we  reiterate 
that  appeal  and  call  for  the  necessary  f lexibility  from 
all  parties  in  order  to  reach  formulations  that  are 
acceptable to all.
Notwithstanding  what  I  have  referred  to,  there 
seems  to  be  an  opinion  shared  by  the  majority  on  the 
importance  and  necessity  of  improving  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  ensure 
greater transparency and inclusiveness. In that regard, 
my  delegation  believes  that  nothing  should  prevent  us 
from  making  progress  on  issues  on  which  there  is  a 
common position — above all as it seems, for the time 
being, that there is no political will for comprehensive 
reform. Let us not make this process a futile exercise. 
Although  we  recognize  how 
important  working 
methods are to Member States, we nevertheless appeal 
to  delegations,  in  particular  the  permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council,  to  work  together  to  find  or 
develop  the  tools  that  will  allow  us  to  make  progress 
on this issue. 
Mr.  Escalona  Ojeda  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We support the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
The  annual  report  of 
the  Security  Council 
(A/67/2),  which  covers  the  period  from  1  August  2011  
to 31 July 2012, is like an inventory of the activities carried 
out by that organ pursuant to the powers granted to it by 
the Charter of the United Nations on how to ensure the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
believe that the Security Council continues to consider 
issues and to adopt resolutions that go above and beyond 
the powers granted to it by the Charter. 
The world is in the midst of a process of an imperial 
hegemony being imposed upon it, and that includes the 
United  Nations.  That  colonization  can  be  seen  in  the 
“securitization”  of  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda, 
and it is ref lected in the report that we are considering. 
Items  include  women  and  peace  and  security,  the 
promotion  and  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the  imposition  of  security  sector  reform  in  some 
countries and topics such as climate change, drugs and 
organized  crime,  justice  and  the  rule  of  law,  among 
others.  All  of  those  topics  have  been  discussed,  and 
instruments have been adopted that enable the Security 
Council to intervene in areas under the jurisdiction of 
the  General  Assembly,  thus  impeding  the  democratic 
process in the Assembly. 
26 
12-59231
Moreover, we are very concerned to see that some 
peacekeeping operations receive mandates to interfere 
with  the  sovereignty  of  countries  that  have  emerged 
from  violent  conf licts.  Taking  advantage  of  their 
institutional  weaknesses,  they  try  to  impose  forms  of 
organization, laws and institutional models that are not 
an innate part of those peoples’ aspirations. 
Topics of great importance for international peace, 
in the period under review, have been a source of great 
concern  for  countries,  such  as  my  own,  that  promote 
respect 
integrity,  sovereignty, 
independence  and  self-determination  of  peoples  and 
respect for human rights and humanitarian rights. 
territorial 
for 
the 
The  systematic  transgression  of  laws  by  Israel  as 
an  occupying  Power  is  treated  under  the  item  on  the 
evolution of the situation in the Middle East, including 
the question of Palestine. But that evolution is no more 
than a systematic violation of human rights, especially 
if we bear in mind the ongoing occupation of Palestinian 
land.  The  atrocities  committed  by  the  State  of  Israel 
against  the  Palestinian  people  are  unacceptable.  They 
expose the double standards of those who exercise their 
veto right to condemn the Palestinian people. 
The  report  is  not  objective  when  it  comes  to 
Syria.  Security  Council  members  tried  to  boycott 
the  mediation  to  stop  the  war,  for  they  are  working 
to  overthrow  the  Government.  They  are  renouncing 
democratic  procedures  and  violating  the  principle  of 
the self-determination of peoples in order to change the 
geostrategic  balance  of  the  region,  thereby  deferring 
any possibilities for peace. 
Perhaps  the  darkest  chapter  in  the  report  is  the 
section dealing with Libya. If a historian a few decades 
from  now  looks  at  the  role  of  the  Security  Council, 
he  will  conclude  that  that  body  was  an  instrument  of 
destruction  and  death  in  that  region,  where  NATO 
played a nefarious role with clear international impunity. 
We contiue to believe that it is extremely dangerous to 
continue to use the defence of human rights as a pretext 
to destroy a country, thus in fact curtailing its capacity 
to act as a free nation.
Mediation  is  an  obstacle  to  war  and  is  constantly 
shunned  by  countries  that  are  trying  to  dominate  us 
with  their  belligerence.  We  are  concerned  to  see  that 
the  report  overlooks  the  many  recommendations  that 
Member States have made during open debates, where, 
it  seems,  our  ideas  are  falling  on  deaf  ears.  That 
A/67/PV.39
discredits  the  democratic  process  within  the  United 
Nations.
The  report  submitted  by  the  Security  Council 
shows  that  some  members  of  the  Council  choose  to 
use threats to international peace and security for their 
own  convenience,  arbitrarily  using  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter  and  blackmailing  others  with  their  military 
superiority, which makes the world more unstable and 
less safe. 
General  Assembly  resolutions  should  be  binding 
in nature, and the responsibility for international peace 
and security must be upheld by the General Assembly. 
This body, the most universal, inclusive and democratic 
body  of  the  United  Nations,  should  be  the  one  that 
resolves such important issues.
With  the  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of 
the  Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly,  we 
must  reiterate  our  demand,  as  a  Member  State,  that 
they  not  continue  to  usurp  the  functions  that  are  the 
sole  and  exclusive  responsibility  of  the  organs  of  the 
United  Nations  system.  The  champions  of  war  and 
interventionism  are  trying  to  weaken  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly. In that connection, Venezuela calls 
for  a  revamping  and  a  democratization  of  the  United 
Nations  so  that  it  represents  the  aspirations  of  all 
peoples and so that international relations become more 
democratic, as well as to prevent global powers backed 
by the use of force from setting the global agenda and, 
in doing so, also setting the United Nations agenda. In 
that  way,  we  would  be  saving  multilateralism  and  the 
agency of our peoples.
With  regard  to  the  question  of  Security  Council 
reform, we would like to thank Ambassador Zahir Tanin 
of  Afghanistan  for  his  efforts  as  coordinator  aimed 
at  promoting  negotiations  towards  consensus  among 
Member States. Venezuela is convinced that the General 
Assembly must remain the principal deliberative body 
of  the  United  Nations  and  maintain  its  independence 
from other organs. It is crucial that we reverse the trend 
by  which  the  Security  Council  involves  itself  in  areas 
not  under  its  jurisdiction,  thereby  undermining  the 
central role of the General Assembly.
supports 
When  it  comes  to  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  Venezuela 
the  expansion  of 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership. Council reform must ensure the inclusion 
of developing countries from Africa and Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  among  the  permanent  members,  as 
12-59231
27
A/67/PV.39
well  as  an  increase  in  non-permanent  seats  for  them, 
such  that  the  expanded  Security  Council  will  ref lect 
a  numerical  formula  containing  25  or  26  members, 
which  would  give  that  organ  greater  balance  in  its 
representation, incorporating the diverse geographical, 
political  and  cultural  realities  of  the  world,  primarily 
from the developing world.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  associates  itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  at  the  38th  meeting  by 
the  representatives  of  Egypt  and  Algeria  on  behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of  African 
States, respectively.
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/67/2)  and 
thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Singh Puri of India for his introduction, as well as the 
Permanent  Mission  of  Colombia  for  having  prepared 
the report. We believe that the report is one of the few 
ways by which the General Assembly can monitor the 
activities of the Security Council.
We are encourages that during the reporting period 
the  Council  discharged  its  mandate  satisfactorily, 
save  for  a  few  instances  were  consensus  among  the 
Permanent Members proved elusive. It is important that 
the  Council  should  speak  with  one  voice  on  matters 
requiring its undivided attention and action.
Despite the satisfactory operations of the Security 
Council, we believe that a comprehensive reform of the 
Council is long overdue. We must reform the Security 
Council  to  ref lect  the  realities  of  the  day,  with  a  view 
to  enabling  it  to  meet  the  expectations  of  the  Member 
States as envisaged in the Charter.
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  imperative 
for the sake of its continued credibility and legitimacy. 
In  that  regard,  Tanzania  has  long  advocated  for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  line 
with  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  which  calls  for  two 
permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats  for 
Africa.
Nonetheless, we should never miss an opportunity 
to undertake reform on those issues which seem to enjoy 
the  wider  backing  of  Member  States,  including  the 
improvement  of  the  working  methods  of  the  Council. 
My delegation strongly believes that a breakthrough to 
the current impasse is urgently needed.
In 
that 
the  work  of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan,  the  chair  of 
regard,  we  commend 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters.  We  welcome  his  reappointment  as  chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  assure  him  of 
Tanzania’s continued support in his endeavours.
We  take  note  of  the  chair’s  recommendations  of 
July 2012, in particular with regard to the need to move 
to  the  next  stage  of  negotiations  based  on  a  concise 
working  document  and  the  convening  of  a  high-level 
meeting  on  Security  Council  reform.  The  chair  could 
assist  us  further  by  elaborating  on  his  proposals  for 
the  sake  of  clarity  and  precision.  We  encourage  all 
Member  States  to  support  the  chair  and  the  President 
of the General Assembly in moving the reform agenda 
forward during the sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly.
The  need  for  Africa’s  views  and  wishes  to  be 
taken  into  account  whenever  the  Security  Council 
decides on matters concerning the continent can never 
be  overemphasized.  We  must  therefore  discourage 
incidents  where  the  interests  and  opinions  of  the 
continent  are  either  circumvented  or  ignored.  It  is 
encouraging, however, to note that the Security Council 
continues to work closely with regional and subregional 
organizations  as  provided  for  under  the  Charter.  That 
partnership  as  witnessed  in  Darfur,  the  Sudan,  South 
Sudan, Somalia and Mali is encouraging and should be 
strengthened.
We value and commend the practice by the Council 
of  holding  open  debates  and  consultations,  including 
consultations  with  the  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  pursuant  to  resolution  1353  (2001).  We 
believe that, looking forward, that approach is essential 
for  ensuring  the  transparency,  vibrancy  and  relevance 
of the Council.
In conclusion, I wish to underline the importance of 
the present joint debate to consider matters of concern 
to  the  entire  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
should  ensure  that  recommendations  agreed  upon  by 
Member  States  are  utilized  to  improve  the  efficiency 
and  effectiveness  of  the  work  done  in  the  Security 
Council and elsewhere.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items. May I take it that 
the  General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Security Council contained in document A/67/2?
28 
12-59231
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  give  the  f loor 
to those representatives who wish to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Kodama (Japan): My delegation would like to 
exercise  its  right  to  reply  in  response  to  the  statement 
made by the representative of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. 
Japan has been making serious efforts to contribute 
actively  and  constructively  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  promotion  of 
prosperity in the world. Indeed, Japan has been elected 
as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council  10  times  since 
its  accession  to  the  United  Nations,  in  1956,  and  has 
been  devoting  the  utmost  effort  to  contribute  to  the 
Council  in  a  responsible  manner.  Is  there  any  better 
measure  or  vote  of  confidence  in  Japan  shown  by 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  than  our  track 
record  of  being  elected  to  the  Security  Council  10 
times by a more than two-thirds majority? We believe 
that our policies and actions over many decades speak 
for  themselves.  Japan  has  demonstrated  that  it  has 
the  determination,  willingness  and  capacity  to  take 
on  further  responsibility  as  a  permanent  member  in  a 
reformed Security Council. We trust in the judgment of 
other Member States regarding Japan’s contributions.
Mr. Ri Tong Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea): I want to clarify the position of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  concerning  the  statements 
of the representatives of South Korea and Japan. 
Concerning  the  representative  of  South  Korea’s 
statement  on  the  peaceful  satellite  launch  and  nuclear 
test and Security Council sanctions, all those allegations 
are  misleading  the  public  and  are  far  from  the  true 
reality  on  the  ground.    In  that  regard,  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  clarify  its 
position as follows. 
First,  the  satellite  launch  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  was  fully  in  exercise 
of  its  sovereign  right  under  international  law.  The 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a State party 
to  the  Outer  Space  Treaty,  which  stipulates  that  it  is 
every country’s right to carry out peaceful activities in 
outer space. 
A/67/PV.39
Secondly, with regard to the so-called resolutions, 
the  Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  totally  rejected  them  as  soon  as  they  were 
adopted.  If  the  Security  Council  is  serious  about 
peace and security on the Korean peninsula and in the 
region,  it  should  have  taken  issue  with,  and  raised  the 
issue  of,  the  joint  hostilities  of  the  United  States  and 
South Korea against the sovereignty of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. It should have taken issue 
with  their  large-scale,  ever-increasing  aggravation  of 
tensions on the Korean peninsula through joint military 
exercises, which are estimated to have involved half a 
million  troops  in  one  single  exercise  at  the  beginning 
of this year. But it has never taken issue with them; yet, 
they have taken issue with our peaceful satellite launch, 
in  violation  of  international  law.  We  therefore  regard 
those exercises as illegal and totally reject them. 
The  nuclear  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula  is  the 
product  of  the  United  States  hostile  policy  against  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The  hostile 
policy of the United States has continued for over half a 
century, with nuclear blackmail directly threatening the 
survival of the nation and threatening the sovereignty of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Therefore, 
our nuclear deterrent is a war deterrent and a response 
to the threat and hostilities of the United States in order 
to  defend  our  country  and  safeguard  our  sovereignty 
and our right to existence as a nation.
Concerning  South  Korea’s  allegation,  it  is  absurd 
and  ridiculous  when  one  considers  that  the  South 
Koreans just recently received approval from the United 
States  to  extend  the  range  of  their  missiles  from  300 
to  over  800  kilometres,  and  when  one  also  considers 
that  South  Korea  is  under  the  nuclear  umbrella  of  the 
United  States.  Therefore,  South  Korea  has  no  legal  or 
moral justification to raise somebody else’s issues. As 
far  as  the  United  States  and  South  Korea’s  extension 
of  their  missiles’  range,  they  have  no  say  in  what  we 
do  now  —  whether  we  launch  satellites  or  we  launch 
ballistic missiles. 
Concerning  the  remarks  of  Japan’s  representative, 
again we totally reject them as misleading the public and 
warping reality. Japan does not have the qualifications 
to  become  a  noble  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  deals  with  international  peace  and 
security.  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  clarify  the  following 
position.
12-59231
29
A/67/PV.39
First, the Japanese Government has never sincerely 
apologized  for  its  past  crimes  and  never  taken  action 
to  settle  and  provide  compensation  for  those  crimes. 
It  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  totally  rejects 
and  glorifies  its  crimes.  On  the  Korean  peninsula 
alone, during the colonial military war, Japan abducted 
and  drafted  8.4  million  Korean  people;  it  massacred 
1  million  people;  and  it  abducted  200,000  Korean 
women to be comfort sex slaves for its imperial army. 
In  the  history  of  the  world,  no  army  has  taken  those 
kinds  of  sex  slaves.  That  is  an  extraordinary  crime 
against  humanity.  Even  countries  allied  with  Japan 
introduced resolutions in their Parliaments denouncing 
such  an  act  and  asking  for  compensation  and  an 
apology.  However,  Japan  continues  to  challenge  the 
international community. 
Secondly,  Japan  is  ref lected  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  as  an  enemy  State  —  a  status  that  no 
other  country  has  been  left  in.  Japan  cannot  fulfil  the 
noble  responsibility  under  the  Charter  of  serving  on 
the  Security  Council.  It  is  creating  territorial  disputes 
with neighbouring countries, with the current Japanese 
Government openly pursuing militarism. It is hell-bent 
on becoming a military power and it will repeat its past 
crimes. Given that reality, Japan cannot be a permanent 
member; it does not have any moral justification.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 30 and agenda item 117.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
30 
12-59231
