United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
17th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 September 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.17
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.35 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Carl Bildt, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Sweden.
Mr. Bildt (Sweden): Our world is changing rapidly. 
The  black-and-white  photos  that  were  taken  when 
this  Organization  was  created  back  in  1945  are  truly 
testimonies  from  another  era.  That  was  a  time  when 
computers  had  barely  been  invented.  The  Internet 
was  decades  away.  And  it  was  not  always  easy  for 
the  representatives  at  that  founding  conference  in 
San  Francisco  to  establish  contact  with  their  faraway 
capitals for instructions that might be needed. 
These  days,  we  have  instant  access  to  the  global 
information  network.  Tweets  are  being  written  as  I 
speak. There are more connected devices than there are 
people in the world, and development is accelerating in 
every respect. In 2012, we who are gathered here have 
all become representatives of the connected nations of 
the  world.  But,  connectivity  also  carries  risks,  as  we 
saw recently in our interconnected financial system,
Recently,  we  also  all  followed  with  horror  and 
disbelief  the  fact  that  an  odious  film  clip  posted 
somewhere on YouTube could lead to outrage and deadly 
violence  10,000  miles  away.  But  the  opportunities 
created  by  connectivity  are  vastly  more  important 
than  the  risks.  Globalization,  marked  by  more  open 
societies  in  a  more  open  world  and  facilitated  by  the 
enormous  advances  of  science  and  technology,  has 
been  an  incredible  force  for  good.  Mobile  banking 
brings  financial  services  to  East  Africans.  Skype 
reinforces  messages  from  the  Arab  street.  Virtual 
marketplaces  unleash  entrepreneurial  talent.  More 
contact,  more  movement  and  more  trade  —  a  more 
open world — have already lifted hundreds of millions 
of  people  out  of  poverty  and  despair,  and  more  is 
certain to come.
In this world of connected nations, people around 
the  globe,  including  tens  of  thousands  of  Swedes  of 
Syrian  origin,  are  following  the  tragedy  unfolding  in 
Damascus, Aleppo and Homs with intense concern. We 
have  all  been  reminded  of  a  simple  truth  —  violence 
is easy to start but very difficult to stop. What began 
as  a  popular  protest  has  now  turned  into  a  civil  war, 
which,  if  unchecked,  brings  the  risk  of  sectarian 
fragmentation  across  the  wider  region.  We  must  do 
everything  possible  to  prevent  that  from  happening. 
We call on the divided Security Council to put global 
responsibilities above narrow national interests. In the 
strongest possible terms, we urge the Al-Assad regime 
to  stop  killing  its  own  people  and  start  respecting  its 
obligations  as  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  And 
we  remind  those  responsible  for  deadly  violence  and 
abuse  that  they  should  rest  assured  that  they  will  be 
held accountable one day.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52408 (E)
*1252408*
A/67/PV.17
There  is  no  alternative  to  a  political  solution. 
Together  with  our  European  partners,  we  offer  our 
full  support  to  the  Joint  Special  Representative, 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi.  Syria  is  a  society  that  is  rich 
in  culture,  history  and  traditions.  Damascus  is  one  of 
the oldest continually inhabited cities in our world. To 
preserve  and  protect  the  mosaic  that  Syria  represents 
is  vital  to  its  future,  and,  I  would  argue,  to  all  of  our 
futures.
But  we  must  also  help  those  now  so  tragically 
affected  by  what  is  happening.  A  thousand  people  are 
being killed every week, according to the latest reports 
we are receiving. We are witnessing an enormous human 
tragedy.  More  than  2.5  million  people  are  in  need  of 
humanitarian  help.  More  than  a  million  people  have 
been displaced inside Syria, and there are a quarter of 
a million refugees in the region as a direct consequence 
of the current crisis. The regime must give unhindered 
access for assistance to the displaced and suffering, and 
the countries that have generously opened their borders 
should  be  commended  and  supported.  Sweden,  which 
is  one  of  the  world’s  largest  humanitarian  donors,  has 
contributed  massively,  and  we  stand  ready  to  further 
increase  our  support  here  and  elsewhere  around  the 
world where people in need are suffering.
In  this  world  of  connected  nations,  the  human 
rights  of  every  child,  woman  and  man  are  a  matter  of 
concern  for  us  all.  Protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights  is  one  of  the  central  duties  of  the  international 
community.  Not  only  is  that  a  question  of  protecting 
individual  human  beings  —  their  life,  their  freedom, 
their future — but it is also crucial to promoting peace, 
stability and prosperity around the globe. And critical 
to those efforts is working for gender equality and the 
empowerment of women, because it is right, because it 
is smart and because it is fundamental to realizing the 
economic and political potential of society.
Sweden, 
the 
largest  financial  contributor 
to 
the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights today, is a candidate 
for a seat on the Human Rights Council for the period 
2013-2015.  As  a  Council  member,  Sweden  would  be 
an  active  and  reliable  partner.  We  would  work  with 
everyone who shares our conviction, reach out to those 
who disagree and support those who need it. But in that 
area as well, we must adjust to the world of connectivity. 
The human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined 
in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  must 
apply  in  the  modern  world  of  today.  Sweden  will  take 
every  opportunity  to  champion  freedom  of  expression 
online  and  the  immense  development  potential  that  is 
vested in the Internet and all of the new communication 
technologies.  Earlier  this  year,  the  Human  Rights 
Council decided that the rights that apply off line apply 
online  as  well,  and  called  on  all  States  to  promote 
and  facilitate  access  to  the  Internet.  That  landmark 
resolution (Human Rights Council resolution 20/8) was 
unanimously adopted in Geneva, and I hope that it has 
been duly noted here in New York as well. The fight for 
freedom on the Internet is the new front line in the fight 
for freedom in the world.
In this world of connected nations, we share a planet 
with  common  development  challenges.  The  world’s 
poor  —  indeed,  all  of  us  —  need  development  that  is 
inclusive,  equitable  and  sustainable.  The  international 
community  has  met 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  well  ahead  of  time,  but  we  are 
lagging  significantly  behind  in  others.  And  while  we 
accelerate efforts to reduce child mortality and improve 
maternal  health,  we  have  started  to  look  beyond  the 
immediate  future.  Sweden  welcomes  the  high-level 
panel  on  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  looks 
forward to contributing to its recommendations.
three  of 
In  Rio,  world  leaders  recently  launched  a  process 
for  working  towards  sustainable  development  goals. 
It  is  up  to  all  of  us  to  take  that  agenda  forward:  to 
involve scientists and business, to explore the potential 
of  information  and  communications  technology  and 
innovation, to pursue all three dimensions of sustainable 
development and to ensure that democracy and human 
rights are part of the equation. And as an active partner 
and a major donor, Sweden will certainly do its part.
In  this  world  of  connected  nations,  geography  is 
sometimes  of  little  consequence.  Distances  might  at 
times  seem  enormous.  But  the  melting  Arctic  ice  cap 
in  the  North  can  pose  an  existential  threat  to  small 
island States in the South. The Arctic today is warming 
twice  as  fast  as  the  global  average.  And  right  now  as 
we  gather  here,  the  Arctic  Sea  ice  cover  has  receded 
so much that it has reached a new historical minimum. 
There  is  less  ice  this  autumn  in  the  Arctic  than  ever 
before in recorded history.
The impact of climate change is global. The world 
is  not  on  track  for  keeping  the  increase  in  global 
average  temperatures  to  below  two  degrees  Celsius. 
We therefore urgently need progress in the negotiations 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
2 
12-52408
Climate  Change  and  effective  implementation  of  the 
globally agreed outcomes. Sweden calls on everyone in 
this  Hall  to  do  their  utmost  to  contribute  to  ensuring 
that that occurs, and developed nations should take the 
lead.
There are severe challenges, but there are also great 
opportunities. Technology brings new possibilities — to 
reduce emissions, increase growth, and  move towards 
a  truly  sustainable  future.  As  the  current  Chair  of  the 
Arctic  Council —  comprising  the  eight  nations  whose 
landmass extends beyond the Arctic Circle — Sweden 
will  make  its  contribution.  Together,  we  will  set  an 
example  of  positive  cooperation  in  an  area  drawing 
rapidly increasing global attention and where, not long 
ago, many were predicting competition and conf lict.
We live in a new era. What happens in the Levant, 
the  Arctic  or  elsewhere  has  immediate  implications 
for  us  all.  In  order  to  deal  with  the  challenges  of  this 
era,  the  connected  nations  of  this  world  need  a  strong 
United  Nations  —  a  United  Nations  to  discuss  the 
issues of today and to truly seize the opportunities for 
collective action in order to shape a better tomorrow; a 
United Nations where we convene in these days to say 
that,  while  ridiculing  what  by  others  is  held  sacred  is 
mean and offensive, it can never be used as an excuse 
for violence, destruction and death.
But 
the  United  Nations  —  our  United 
Nations  —  needs  to  step  up  to  the  challenge.  The 
Security  Council  must  assume  its  responsibilities,  in 
Syria and elsewhere. Member States must empower the 
United Nations to become better at conf lict prevention 
and  peacebuilding,  and  ensure  that  it  can  deliver 
development results effectively and as one.
It  is  up  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  meet  our 
international human rights obligations, not just in order 
to  protect  the  individual  human  being,  but  because 
respect  for  human  rights  is  also,  as  we  have  bitterly 
learned  throughout  history,  critical  to  peace  and 
security.
In these times of accelerating global change, with its 
great risks and even greater opportunities, Sweden will 
remain a steadfast member of this global Organization 
and, together with our partners in the European Union, 
we  will  continue  to  promote  an  effective  multilateral 
system with the United Nations at its core.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the f loor to His Highness Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed 
A/67/PV.17
Al Nahyan, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United 
Arab Emirates.
Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan  (United 
Arab Emirates) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I would 
like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh  session.  I  am  confident  that  his  experience  in 
international affairs will enable him to guide the work 
of  this  session  wisely  and  ably,  and  I  wish  him  every 
success in his task.
I  would  also  like  to  commend  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for  his 
successful  and  prudent  leadership  of  the  sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly, and to commend the 
great efforts made by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
and pay tribute to his tireless efforts and the role of this 
international  Organization  in  promoting  international 
peace, security and development.
Security and stability in the Arab Gulf region are a 
high priority for all of us. Our balanced policies are based 
on  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and the provisions of international law, especially those 
calling  for  peaceful  coexistence,  confidence-building, 
good neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States,  and  pursuing 
peaceful means in resolving conf licts and disputes.
its 
regret 
regarding 
On  the  basis  of  those  principles,  my  Government 
expresses,  once  again, 
the 
continued  Iranian  occupation  of  our  three  islands: 
Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb. We demand 
the  restoration  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates’  full 
sovereignty  over  those  islands.  We  emphasize  that  all 
actions  and  measures  taken  by  Iran  are  null  and  void, 
and  are  in  contravention  of  international  law  and  all 
norms and universal human values.
The  events  unfolding  in  Syria  are  for  us  a  cause 
for  great  sadness.  They  have  gone  beyond  all  limits 
and  norms.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  closely,  and 
with great concern, following the policies of violence, 
killing,  displacement  and  expulsion  being  pursued  by 
the  Syrian  regime  against  its  people,  which  regime 
has  lost  all  its  legitimacy.  We  therefore  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  consider  with  seriousness 
and firmness what is happening to our Syrian brothers 
and  to  shoulder  its  humanitarian  responsibilities. 
We  see  it  as  our  duty  to  stop  those  atrocities  against 
the  peaceful  Syrian  people.  We  are  convinced  that  a 
12-52408
3
A/67/PV.17
solution  to  the  crisis  can  be  achieved  only  through  an 
orderly transition of power.
That  severe  humanitarian  crisis 
requires  us 
to  support  the  people  of  Syria,  in  particular  the 
refugees.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  shouldered 
its  responsibilities  and  obligations  towards  the  Syrian 
refugees in Turkey and Jordan and will continue to do 
so by providing relief. We urge all States to contribute 
to such humanitarian efforts.
The  Middle  East  holds  great  importance  for  us, 
and  we  believe  that  peace  and  stability  will  never  be 
achieved  in  that  region  until  the  Arab-Israeli  conf lict 
is  resolved.  That  is  the  central  and  vital  issue  to  the 
people of the entire region, and reaching a just solution 
is the key for bringing peace and stability to the whole 
area.  It  cannot  be  realized  without  putting  an  end  to 
the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  and  Arab 
territories  through  Israel’s  withdrawal  to  the  lines 
of  4  June  1967,  including  from  East  Jerusalem,  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan  Heights  and  the  remaining 
occupied  Lebanese  territories.  The  achievement  of  a 
just  and  comprehensive  peace  must  be  carried  out  in 
accordance with resolutions of international legitimacy, 
the principle of land for peace, the Arab Peace Initiative 
and  the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian 
State, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  welcomes 
the 
considerable progress achieved in the political process 
in  Somalia  through  the  completion  of  the  transitional 
phase,  the  convening  of  the  Constituent  Assembly, 
the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  of  Somalia  and  the 
election  of  Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud  as  the  new 
President  of  Somalia.  We  also  reaffirm  our  support 
for  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  political 
independence of Somalia, and look forward to working 
with  its  Government  towards  achieving  security  and 
stability  and  countering  piracy  in  a  region  of  such 
vital  importance,  not  only  with  respect  to  oil  and  gas 
transport but also to the world economy in general.
In the United Arab Emirates, we remain committed 
to supporting the security and stability of Afghanistan 
and confirm the continuation of our humanitarian and 
developmental  support  to  that  distressed  country.  In 
that  context,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  donors 
conference  that  was  held  in  Tokyo,  with  the  hope  that 
the pledges announced at the conference will contribute 
to the process of the reconstruction of Afghanistan. As 
we  approach  the  year  2014  and  the  commitment  for 
military withdrawal from Afghanistan and for turning 
the  country  over  to  its  people  and  Government,  we 
aspire to see an Afghanistan that is free from terrorism, 
extremism and violence. 
At  the  same  time,  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
expresses  its  deep  concern  over  the  violence  against 
the  Rohingya  Muslim  community  in  Myanmar  and 
calls  upon  the  international  community  to  urge  the 
Government of Myanmar to cease all acts incompatible 
with the principles of fundamental human rights.
We reaffirm our commitment to all requirements of 
nuclear non-proliferation and renew our support for the 
efforts  aimed  at  designating  the  region  of  the  Middle 
East,  including  the  Arab  Gulf  region,  a  zone  free  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  especially  the  Arab 
Gulf  region.  In  that  context,  we  must  also  call  upon 
Israel  to  join  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons and subject all of its nuclear facilities 
to the comprehensive safeguards regime. 
In that regard, we urge the Islamic Republic of Iran 
to fully cooperate with the International Atomic Energy 
Agency in implementing its international commitments 
in order to dispel all fears and suspicions surrounding 
its nuclear programme. We look forward to a peaceful 
solution to that crisis, ensuring that our region remains 
free  of  tension  and  conf lict,  while  guaranteeing  the 
transparency  and  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme.
The United Arab Emirates began in 2009 to develop 
a nuclear energy programme for peaceful uses in order 
to meet the country’s growing demand for energy and to 
support economic development projects. It ensured that 
the  programme’s  rules  and  regulations  were  based  on 
the  highest  standards  of  sustained  safety  and  security 
measures  and  principles  of  nuclear  non-proliferation. 
I  take  the  opportunity  to  call  upon  the  States  of  the 
region  to  draw  on  the  experience  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  in  that  field  and  to  study  the  standards  of 
transparency,  technology,  safety  and  security  upon 
which the programme is based.
We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
addressing  the  implications  of  climate  change,  which 
involves  developing  renewable  energy  technologies  to 
achieve  sustainable  development  and  providing  clean 
energy  for  developing  countries,  which  are  among 
the  goals  advocated  by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  in 
offering various types of humanitarian and development 
assistance.
4 
12-52408
The  United  Arab  Emirates  reiterates  its  firm 
condemnation of all acts of terrorism, illicit trafficking 
in  drugs  and  arms  and  human  trafficking,  as  well  as 
organized crime, which are interlinked phenomena that 
feed into each other. It reaffirms its resolve to continue 
cooperating  with  international  and  multilateral  efforts 
aiming  at  the  total  elimination  of  those  negative 
phenomena, which pose a direct threat to international 
peace and security. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  announced  the 
establishment of the International Centre of Excellence 
for Countering Violent Extremism, in collaboration with 
several inf luential friends and actors, which will begin 
its work in Abu Dhabi at the end of the year. Moderation 
and  tolerance  are  the  basic  principles  guiding  our 
political  orientation  and  represent  lofty  values  to  the 
citizens of the United Arab Emirates and to society as 
a  whole.  In  that  sense,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
been  and  will  remain  committed  to  moderation  in  its 
approach,  and  accepts  other  communities  as  part  of  a 
diverse  world  built  on  mutual  respect.  Those  are  the 
human  values  that  have  formed  our  convictions  with 
regard to many issues, such as counterterrorism, human 
rights,  the  empowerment  of  women  and  coexistence 
among peoples and religious sects.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  emphasizes 
the 
importance  of  consolidating  the  values  of  tolerance, 
moderation  and  respect  for  religions,  as  well  as  the 
importance  of  protecting  religions  against  defamation 
and  contempt  and  stresses  the  need  to  develop  the 
necessary  legislation  in  that  regard.  I  must  condemn, 
in  the  strongest  possible  terms,  abuses  against  Islam, 
as  freedom  of  expression  should  not  be  allowed  to 
undermine any religion or belief, whatsoever. We also 
condemn all violent reactions to any such abuse.
Terrorism poses a challenge to international peace 
and  security  and  leads  to  violating  the  human  rights 
of  ordinary  people  by  depriving  them  of  the  right 
to  live  in  peace  and  prosperity.  In  that  context  and 
based  on  our  commitment  to  the  principles  of  human 
rights, the United Arab Emirates renews its support of 
international efforts aimed at ensuring peace, security 
and  prosperity  for  all  the  peoples  of  the  world,  and 
looks forward to expanding its engagement in that area.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  also  been  focusing 
its  efforts  on 
reducing  gender  discrimination. 
Therefore,  we  look  forward  to  playing  an  active  role 
in  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and 
the Empowerment of Women, based on our successful 
A/67/PV.17
national  experience  in  empowering  the  women  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates,  who  actively  participate 
in  managing  the  affairs  of  the  State  as  well  as  the 
community.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  all 
Member States to support the quest of the United Arab 
Emirates to host World Expo 2020 in Dubai under the 
slogan  “Connecting  Minds,  Creating  the  Future”.  We 
look  forward  to  receiving  the  support  necessary  to 
strengthen my country’s candidacy, particularly since it 
is the first time that the event will be held in the Middle 
East, North Africa and South Asia region.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. José Badia, Minister for External 
Relations  and  for  Economic  Affairs  and  International 
Finances of the Principality of Monaco.
Mr.  Badia  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Secretary-General has shared with us the priorities that 
he plans to implement during the sixty-seventh session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  His  warning  concerning 
the  multiplicity  of  new  threats  and  his  clear-sighted 
recognition of their interconnections should inspire and 
guide our work.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security  —  need  it  be  said  again  —  are  the  very 
essence  of  the  mission  of  our  Organization.  What 
do  we  see  before  us?  Crises  and  threats  to  peace  and 
security  are  multiplying  and  are  often  even  mutually 
reinforcing,  along  with  the  endangerment  of  human 
rights. What global vision do we share of the challenges 
that confront our planet, its States and its peoples? By 
bearing in mind that it is our mission and urgent need 
to  uphold  our  vision,  which  calls  on  us  to  support  the 
five  priorities  of  the  programme  of  action  that  have 
been  drawn  up  for  the  next  five  years  and  submitted 
to  us  by  the  Secretary-General.  Since  he  has  invited 
us  to  so,  we  wish  to  underline  the  need  to  prioritize 
the strengthening of the United Nations system as well 
as  the  development  of  partnerships  in  all  areas  of  its 
activity.
The  President  rightly  sought  to  focus  the  general 
debate  of  this  session  on  the  subject  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of international situations and disputes. This 
historic debate, launched at the beginning of the week 
by the General Assembly, has shown that respect for the 
rule  of  law,  at  both  the  national  and  the  international 
the  establishment  of 
levels, 
responsible  societies 
to  promote 
indispensable  for 
is 
that  are  able 
12-52408
5
A/67/PV.17
cooperation and ensure the well-being of their citizens. 
Recent  history  leads  us  to  take  a  serious  look  at  the 
current  difficulties  confronting  the  world.  While  last 
year we welcomed the magnificent spark of democracy 
that was kindled in the Arab world, it is intolerable now 
that  minority  factions  and  extremists  are  threatening 
the  hopes  and  dampening  the  expectations  of  people 
who aspire to live in liberty.
The  Government  of    the  Principality  of  Monaco 
echoes those who have condemned the acts of violence 
perpetrated  both  by  the  authorities  and  by  opposition 
groups  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  where  the 
situation  only  continues  to  deteriorate.  I  would  also 
like to convey my full support for the efforts made by 
the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  and  its 
resolve  in  seeking  to  ensure  that  humanitarian  needs 
are met. Clearly, that is involves ensuring that each and 
every one respect the rule of international humanitarian 
law as the minimum requirement for meeting the basic, 
elementary  moral  standards  of  our  peoples,  standards 
that do not, unfortunately, seem to be shared by all.
We  are  equally  concerned  by  the  recent  events  in 
the Sahel region, including in Mali, which are growing 
worse. The Principality of Monaco, which is involved in 
various humanitarian efforts in the region, supports all 
such actions by the international community, given the 
urgency  and  gravity  of  the  situation.  We  will  support 
a  strategy  established  by  the  United  Nations  that  can 
address the issues of security, governance, development, 
human rights and humanitarian aspects. The values that 
we are committed to uphold in adopting the Charter of 
the United Nations are based on our common humanity 
and on the recognition of our differences, which are at 
the very core of our humanity.
Allow me, in that regard, to pay tribute to all those 
who  have  been  committed  to  serving  those  values  on 
the ground, often paying with their lives. They seek to 
uphold  the  aims  and  principles  that  bring  us  together 
here  in  this  forum.  Our  authorities  have  resolutely 
condemned  all  attacks  perpetrated  against  diplomatic 
and  consular  missions  and  personnel.  We  must  all 
ensure  the  obligation  of  guaranteeing  their  protection 
in all circumstances.
At  a  time  when  the  world  is  facing  worrying 
developments, the theme that the President has selected 
for  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  merits  the 
unanimous support of all in our community. Aware of 
the challenges, I would like to take the opportunity to 
commend  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  on  his  election 
and  to  assure  the  Assembly  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support.
More  than  ever  before,  we  need  to  resort  to  the 
peaceful settlement of our disputes and seek to prevent 
rather  than  react  to  events.  In  the  1950s,  Secretary-
General Dag Hammarskjöld urged us to be mindful of 
the need to respond at an early stage to crises in order 
to avoid the outbreak of disputes between parties or the 
conf lagration  of  a  dispute  into  an  open  conf lict,  or  in 
the event that a conf lict does break out, to ensure that 
it can be contained.
We have been caught unaware and so many ongoing 
problems in the year 2012 have gone unsolved. We have 
been  largely  successful  in  ensuring  that  international 
law  prevails  over  the  right  to  wage  war.  However,  the 
involvement of our Organization in conf lict prevention 
still falls quite short, as avowals and statements of intent 
on their own are insufficient. It is therefore our common 
duty to strengthen understanding, tolerance and mutual 
respect. As was recalled by the Secretary-General here 
on 13 September, as well as by his predecessor, one of 
the  strongest  factors  for  conf lict  prevention,  and  thus 
for  the  inculcation  of  an  authentic  culture  of  peace,  is 
education. That kind of prevention is aimed at  enrolling 
the young generations to whom we owe a future.
The challenges are manifold. Among them, I would 
single out the economic and financial crisis, which has 
affected the overwhelming majority of our States since 
2008. We can overcome the crisis, creating employment 
while  protecting  our  environmental  heritage.  But 
in  order  to  do  so,  we  need  an  ambitious  long-term 
vision,  and  that  is  why,  in  spite  of  the  budget  cuts, 
the  crisis  has  compelled  us  to  realize  that  we  cannot 
afford  to  lose  sight  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals — elimination of poverty and hunger; education; 
child and maternal health; and combatting pandemics, 
including HIV/AIDS and malaria, which sap humankind 
of its strength — which must remain uppermost on our 
agenda.
The  upcoming  deadline  must  encourage  us  to  do 
still more to intensify our efforts in order to ensure their 
achievement. In 2015, we will adopt a new programme 
of action, based on the results achieved and on the new 
challenges to be met.
In his address to the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development, His Serene Highness Prince 
6 
12-52408
Albert  II  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco  welcomed  the 
fact that we are progressing towards a shared definition 
of  sustainable  development  goals.  Those  goals  will 
frame our actions at the international, national and local 
levels, and in turn, that will make the implementation of 
our commitments more effective and more transparent. 
One  of 
those  objectives 
should  emphasize 
the  sustainable  development  of  oceans  and  on  the 
importance of the blue economy.
That  objective  should  concern  all  sectors  that 
depend  on  ocean  resources  and  maritime  areas.  It 
is  urgent  that  that  objective  be  comprehensive  and 
sustainable so that those sectors can continue to benefit 
from  economic,  social  and  environmental  services. 
Accordingly, our delegation will support all initiatives 
seeking  to  improve  the  coordination  and  effectiveness 
of  the  United  Nations  work  in  the  oceans.  Indeed,  we 
believe  that  that  is  the  right  path  to  follow  in  order  to 
ultimately ensure the sustainable use and management 
of the oceans and thereby their conservation.
The  fate  of  future  generations  lies  in  our  hands. 
For that reason, we are obliged to ensure that the Doha 
Climate Change Conference is a success. It is therefore 
crucial  that  we  reach  agreement  on  the  establishment 
of  a  second  period  of  commitments  under  the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  We  therefore  commit  ourselves  to  working 
positively and effectively in the negotiations on reaching 
a new global post-2020 climate agreement, taking into 
account the needs of the most vulnerable.
His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  welcomes 
the  celebration  next  year  of  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  Monaco’s  joining  the  United  Nations  as  a  Member 
State.    In  that  connection,  Monaco  wishes  to  express 
its resolve to contribute to the further strengthening of 
our  Organization  to  the  extent  that  a  small  State  can 
do so. Members may rest assured that the Principality 
welcomes 
intention  of 
further  involving  itself  in  the  field  of  development 
and  establishing  an  advisory  framework  that  seeks  to 
enhance the cooperation between the General Assembly 
and international financial institutions. 
the  Assembly’s 
two-fold 
On the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the 
Forum of Small States, of which Monaco is a member, 
and  also  in  its  capacity  as  a  member  of  the  Global 
Governance Group, the Principality intends to play its 
full role in the work of those bodies. The magnitude of 
the  challenges  and  crises  that  we  all  face  have  shown 
that the size of a State is not the deciding factor when 
A/67/PV.17
it comes to resolving such problems. Rather, it is solely 
our ability to work together and cooperate that enables 
us to respond to everyday needs and that will lead us on 
the path towards international peace and security. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Abdulaziz Kamilov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Kamilov (Uzbekistan): Allow me very brief ly 
to  address  what  are,  in  our  opinion,  some  of  the  most 
important  items  on  the  agenda  of  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  First  of  all,  today,  in  this  century 
of  globalization  and  rapidly  changing  situations  and 
growing  tensions  and  confrontations  in  many  regions 
of the world, we need to come up with unconventional 
and  extraordinary  responses  to  crisis  situations  and 
wars that have been ongoing for many decades and are 
therefore persistent features of our agenda.
To  our  great  regret,  instead  of  seeking  to  deeply 
understand  emerging  problems  and  confrontations  in 
one region of the world or another and addressing them 
in a timely manner, finding their true origins or focusing 
the international community on preventing them from 
growing  into  large-scale  crises  and  wars,  the  world 
is  letting  its  most  precious  resource  —  time  —  slip 
through its fingers. That leads, of course, to enormous 
costs and the waste of other precious resources. Let me 
offer a few examples.
the 
As  early  as  in  1993,  President  Karimov  of  the 
Republic  of  Uzbekistan,  when  he  spoke  before  the 
forty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/48/PV.6),  drew 
international  community’s 
attention to the need to immediately resolve the situation 
in  Afghanistan,  given  the  close  connection  between 
regional and global security, the need to respect the civil 
and religious rights of the people of Afghanistan and the 
need  to  prevent  the  conf lict  from  growing  into  a  full-
scale civil war. Otherwise the problems in Afghanistan 
would  turn  into  a  painful  and  bitter  issue  of  concern 
to  the  international  community  as  a  whole.  Difficult 
problems may resurface when the imminent withdrawal 
of  the  International  Security  Assistance  Forces  from 
Afghanistan occurs by late 2014 and the responsibility 
for  ensuring  stability  in  the  country  is  turned  over  to 
the newly created Afghan National Security Forces. It 
is obvious today that that turn of events may lead to a 
stand-off between opposing forces in Afghanistan itself 
and  in  neighbouring  countries.  It  may  also  lead  to  the 
growth  of  extremism  and  radicalism,  cause  a  surge  in 
12-52408
7
A/67/PV.17
drug  trafficking  and  aggravate  tensions  in  the  region 
as whole.
As  the  situation  is  unfolding,  the  best  way  to 
address  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  is  to  establish  a 
contact group under the auspices of the United Nations 
with  the  participation  of  the  country’s  neighbours, 
the  United  States,  NATO  and  the  Russian  Federation. 
The principal goal of such efforts should be to reach a 
compromise  and  an  agreement  between  the  opposing 
forces  and  form  a  coalition  Government  on  that  basis. 
Such  a  coalition  Government  could  be  comprised  of 
the core ethnic, national and religious groups involved 
in  the  military  and  political  stand-off  taking  place  in 
Afghanistan.
Uzbekistan  has  suggested  that  approach  a  number 
of  times,  for  example,  at  the  NATO  summits  in 
Bucharest in 2008 and in Chicago this year, as well as 
at  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  held  in  New  York  in  2010  (see 
A/65/PV.3).  The  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  has  always 
conducted, and will always maintain, a friendly, good-
neighbourly policy towards its neighbour Afghanistan. 
Uzbekistan  has  built  its  relationship  with  Afghanistan 
on  a  bilateral  basis,  taking  into  account  the  national 
interests  of  both  countries  and  respecting  the  Afghan 
people’s choice in terms of the future of their country. 
Today,  Uzbekistan  offers  comprehensive  forms  of 
assistance  to  Afghanistan  so  that  it  may  return  once 
again  to  peace.  Specifically,  we  have  contributed 
to  the  construction  of  bridges,  motorways  and  the 
strategic  Khairaton-Mazar-e-Sharif 
link, 
which connects Afghanistan with the States of Central 
Asia,  as  well  as  providing  an  uninterrupted  supply 
of  electricity  to  Kabul.  Uzbekistan  plays  a  key  role 
in  ensuring  the  stable  and  effective  operation  of  the 
northern distribution network.
railroad 
and 
change 
climate 
Secondly, 
the  global 
deteriorating  ecological  situation  have  made  ensuring 
the  reasonable  and  rational  use  of  water  resources  the 
most  acute  problem  of  the  modern  world.  Increasing 
shortages  of  fresh  water,  which  is  needed  to  provide 
food security and protect human life, serve to confirm 
that  assertion.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to 
present the Republic of Uzbekistan’s main approach to 
addressing those issues, which are of vital importance 
for all the States of Central Asia. 
We believe that all water and energy issues in our 
region,  where  the  largest  transboundary  rivers  —  the 
Amu Darya and the Syr Darya — are the main sources 
of  water  and  life  for  the  millions  of  people  residing 
near  them,  should  be  addressed  in  accordance  with 
the  universally  recognized  norms  of  international  law 
provided for in the 1992 United Nations Convention on 
the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses 
and  International  Lakes  and  the  1997  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Non-navigational Uses of 
International Watercourses.
Those 
instruments  require  adherence 
the 
principle  of  doing  no  harm  to  the  environment  or  to 
the interests of neighbouring States when exploiting the 
resources of transboundary rivers. 
to 
It  is  therefore  reasonable  that  Uzbekistan  calls  for 
those  principles  and  standards  to  be  our  guides  in  the 
search  for  mutually  acceptable  compromise  decisions 
on  water  use.  We  believe  that  all  hydropower  facility 
construction  projects  in  the  upper  waters  of  the  Syr 
Darya  and  Amu  Darya  basins  should  be  evaluated  by 
international  experts  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations  and  agreed  to  by  the  downstream  countries. 
Only  after  such  agreement  and  coordination  should 
construction  begin  on  two  proposed  dams,  which 
are  practically  the  largest  in  the  world,  namely,  the 
350-metre-high Rogun hydropower station in the upper 
waters  of  the  Amu  Darya  and  the  275-metre-high 
Kambarata  1  station  in  the  upper  waters  of  the  Syr 
Darya. Furthermore, that construction has to be carried 
out in mountainous terrain where seismicity levels can 
reach 9 to 10 points on the Richter scale.
To  comply  with  international  requirements,  it  is 
essential  to  set  priorities  for  water  use.  The  region’s 
limited  water  resources  must  first  be  used  to  meet 
drinking  and  sanitary  needs,  and  only  after  that  to 
ensure  food  security  and  to  meet  ecological  demands 
and the needs of the industry and power sectors.
remains 
committed 
Thirdly,  Uzbekistan 
to 
preserving  peace,  stability  and  security  in  the  region. 
That principled position is stipulated in the Republic of 
Uzbekistan’s position paper on foreign policy activity, 
formulated  on  the  initiative  of  the  Head  of  State  of 
Uzbekistan.  In  particular,  the  document  includes  the 
following important provisions. 
First, the Republic of Uzbekistan reserves the right 
to  enter  into  alliances,  join  commonwealths  and  other 
inter-State  establishments,  as  well  as  to  leave  them, 
guided by the supreme interests of the State, the people, 
their well-being and security, the priority guidelines for 
8 
12-52408
modernizing  the  country,  existing  national  legislation 
and  international  obligations  that  have  been  assumed. 
The paper continues, stating that Uzbekistan maintains 
a peace-loving policy, does not participate in military-
political  blocs,  and  reserves  the  right  to  leave  any 
inter-State  body  if  the  latter  is  transformed  into  a 
military-political bloc. Next, the Republic of Uzbekistan 
will  take  political,  economic  and  other  measures  to 
prevent its involvement in military conf licts or hotbeds 
of  tension  in  adjacent  States  and  will  not  allow  the 
deployment  of  foreign  bases  and  facilities  on  its  own 
territory.  Next,  the  armed  forces  of  the  Republic  of 
Uzbekistan  will  not  participate  in  military  operations 
abroad. Finally, the main priority concern of the foreign 
policy  of  Uzbekistan  is  the  region  of  Central  Asia, 
where the country’s crucial interests lie. 
The  problems  of  Central  Asia  must  be  addressed 
by  the  countries  of  the  region  without  interference 
from  external  Powers.  Uzbekistan  remains  committed 
to  pursuing  an  open,  friendly  and  pragmatic  policy 
towards  its  immediate  neighbours,  and  proceeds  from 
a  position  that  all  outstanding  political,  economic  and 
ecological problems of the region should be addressed 
on  the  basis  of  the  mutual  consideration  of  interests, 
constructive  dialogue  and  the  norms  of  international 
law.
We  set  great  store  by  the  United  Nations  as  a 
universal structure and the only worldwide, universally 
accepted  body  capable  of  ensuring  security,  stability 
and  consistent  development,  including  in  our  region. 
Uzbekistan  stands  ready  to  continue  to  cooperate 
effectively  with  the  Organization  and  its  specialized 
bodies in order to achieve those high and noble goals.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elmar  Maharram  oglu 
Mammadyarov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Azerbaijan.
Mr. Mammadyarov  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset,  I 
would  like  to  congratulate  my  good  friend,  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić, on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and to wish him 
every success in fulfilling his highly responsible duties. 
We are also grateful to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser 
for presiding ably over the sixty-sixth session.
This is the ﬁ rst general debate that I have addressed 
since  Azerbaijan  was  elected  to  a  non-permanent  seat 
on  the  Security  Council,  and  I  would  like  to  express 
our sincere gratitude and profound appreciation to the 
A/67/PV.17
Governments of States Members of the United Nations 
for  their  valuable  support  for  our  candidacy  and  for 
their  solidarity  with  Azerbaijan  during  17  rounds  of 
elections.
The  theme  of  the  this  year’s  general  debate, 
“Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international 
disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful  means”,  is  timely 
and topical. It also represents a logical continuation of 
discussions we had during the previous session. Indeed, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  is  one  of  the  key 
and  core  principles  of  international  law  enshrined  in 
the United Nations Charter. Its true value is to be able 
to commit States to respecting one another’s territorial 
integrity  and  political  independence,  refraining  in 
their  international  relations  from  the  threat  or  use  of 
force  and  resolving  their  disputes  in  conformity  with 
international law.
At its sixty-ﬁ fth and sixty-sixth sessions, the General 
Assembly adopted two resolutions on strengthening the 
role of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
conf lict  prevention  and  resolution  (resolutions  65/283 
and  66/291),  and  the  Secretary-General  submitted 
a  report  on  the  subject  that  contains  a  Guidance  for 
Effective Mediation (A/66/811, annex I). As a sponsor 
of  those  resolutions,  Azerbaijan  considers  the  process 
begun  by  their  adoption  to  be  an  essential  effort 
towards  reinforcing  the  promotion  of  mediation  in  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  conf lict  prevention 
and resolution, as well as providing useful guidance to 
existing  and  future  mediation  mechanisms.  A  crucial 
factor  is  that  those  resolutions,  and  the  Guidance  for 
Effective  Mediation  developed  by 
the  Secretary-
General,  reaffirmed  the  key  importance  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  of  international  law  and  justice, 
in  particular  the  commitment  to  respect  and  uphold 
the  sovereignty, 
integrity  and  political 
independence of States.
territorial 
During  Azerbaijan’s  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council this past May, we organized an Arria-formula 
meeting of the Council to encourage a frank exchange 
of  views,  within  a  f lexible  procedural  framework,  on 
the role of mediation, judicial settlement and justice in 
promoting  durable  peace  and  reconciliation  based  on 
international law. We look forward to further initiatives 
on the topic in the General Assembly and the Security 
Council with a view to contributing to the development 
and implementation of comprehensive peace strategies 
within  specific  frameworks  that  provide  that  dispute 
12-52408
9
A/67/PV.17
settlement  and  conf lict  resolution  must  be  based  on 
respect for the rule of law and for justice.
The  world  continues  to  face  persistent,  grave  and 
systematic  violations  of  the  fundamental  norms  and 
principles of international law. There are still instances 
where  archaic  patterns  of  the  use  of  force  against  the 
territorial  integrity  and  political  independence  of 
States  are  used  to  achieve  territorial  gains.  Hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  throughout  the  world  continue 
to  suffer  from  aggression,  military  occupation,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  a  prevailing  culture  of  impunity  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
community.
The  ongoing  armed  conf lict  between  Armenia 
and  Azerbaijan  continues  to  represent  a  serious  threat 
and  challenge  to  international  and  regional  peace  and 
security.  The  conf lict  has  led  to  the  occupation  of 
almost  20  per  cent  of  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan  and 
has turned more than one million people in the country 
into internally displaced persons or refugees. The war 
has  also  led  to  the  deaths  and  wounding  of  thousands 
of  Azerbaijanis,  including  women,  the  elderly  and 
children. In addition, the aggression against Azerbaijan 
has  severely  damaged  the  country  in  socioeconomic 
terms.  Not  a  single  Azerbaijani  historic  or  cultural 
monument  has  been  left  undamaged,  and  no  sacred 
site  has  escaped  desecration  in  either  the  occupied 
territories or in Armenia.
We  sincerely  believe  that  there  is  no  alternative 
to  peace,  stability  and  mutually  beneficial  regional 
cooperation. As a country suffering from the occupation 
of  its  territories  and  the  forcible  displacement  of 
hundreds of thousands of its citizens, Azerbaijan is the 
most interested party in the earliest possible negotiated 
settlement of the conf lict. Without prejudice to its rights 
under  the  United  Nations  Charter,  in  particular  those 
set  forth  in  Article  51,  Azerbaijan  embarked  on  and 
remains  committed  to  the  conf lict  settlement  process, 
confident  that  it  will  lead  to  the  end  of  the  illegal 
Armenian  occupation,  ensure  the  return  of  forcibly 
displaced  people  to  their  homes  and  guarantee  the 
peaceful coexistence of the Armenian and Azerbaijani 
communities  in  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  within 
the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Attempts  by  the  Armenian  side  to  misinterpret 
the  norms  and  principles  of  international  law  and 
its  insistence  on  unrealistic  annexationist  claims, 
which  Azerbaijan  will  never  accept,  speak  to  the  real 
intentions  of  Armenia’s  leadership  and  represent  an 
open  challenge  to  the  conf lict  settlement  process,  as 
well  as  a  serious  threat  to  international  and  regional 
peace and security. In f lagrant violation of the United 
Nations  Charter,  Armenia  continues  to  use  force  to 
maintain  its  occupation  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
region and seven other districts of Azerbaijan, as well 
as  to  prevent  internally  displaced  Azerbaijani  persons 
from returning to their homes. It is attempting to alter 
the  demographic  balance  in  the  occupied  territories 
and  to  remove  any  signs  of  their  Azerbaijani  cultural 
and  historical  roots.  Additionally,  regular  ceasefire 
violations and deliberate attacks by the armed forces of 
Armenia against the inhabitants of towns and villages in 
Azerbaijan along the front line and the border between 
the two States have become more frequent and violent 
in recent times, resulting in the killing and injuring of 
many Azerbaijani civilians.
We  have  no  doubt  that  the  Azerbaijani  and 
Armenian  communities  of  Nagorno  Karabakh  will 
one  day  live  side  by  side  in  peace  and  dignity  in  that 
region of Azerbaijan. It is therefore essential and vital 
to  continue  efforts  for  peace  and  coexistence  between 
the  two  communities.  Azerbaijan  considers  that  an 
important  part  of  the  whole  reconciliation  process 
and  has  therefore  accepted  invitations  from  a  number 
of  European  non-governmental  organizations  to  hold 
intercommunal  meetings.  However,  those  proposals 
have so far been blocked by the authorities in Yerevan. 
Moreover, 
rhetoric  of  Armenia’s 
leadership and its blatant promotion of odious ideas of 
racial  superiority,  ethnic  and  religious  incompatibility 
and hatred towards Azerbaijan and other neighbouring 
nations  only  deepen  mistrust  and  make  more  elusive 
the prospect of a speedy negotiated settlement.
the  aggressive 
The situation is further complicated by Armenia’s 
irresponsible and unacceptable behaviour in the highly 
sensitive  domain  of  justice  and  reconciliation.  The 
perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity, 
including  acts  of  genocide  against  the  Azerbaijani 
people,  not  only  remain  unpunished  in  Armenia  but 
are  even  promoted,  venerated  and  officially  rewarded 
with the title of hero. Schools, universities and streets 
are  named  after  them  and  monuments  are  erected  in 
their  honour.  War  criminals  who  proudly  avow  their 
role  in  the  mass  killing  of  Azerbaijani  civilians  are 
reincarnated  as  highly  placed  politicians,  military 
commanders and public figures.
10 
12-52408
Armenia must finally realize that the irresponsible 
and provocative policy of territorial claims, animosity 
and hatred towards neighbouring countries and nations 
based  on  historical,  cultural,  racial  and  religious 
prejudices  has  no  chance  of  success.  The  earlier  it 
grasps that fact, the sooner our countries will be able to 
reach mutual understanding and enjoy peace, stability 
and cooperation.
It is clear that both the conf lict-settlement process 
and  its  outcome  must  be  consistent  with  international 
law.  The  achievement  of  peace,  security,  stability  and 
confidence therefore depends first and foremost on the  
removal  of  the  consequences  of  Armenia’s  illegal  use 
of  force.  That  will  ensure  that  the  occupation  of  the 
territories of Azerbaijan is at an end and that the right 
of internally displaced Azerbaijani persons to return to 
their homes and recover their property and possessions 
will  be  implemented.  That  is  what  international 
law  and  the  relevant  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly  resolutions  require,  which  means  that  this 
condition  cannot  be  subject  to  compromise  or  used  as 
a  bargaining  chip  in  the  conf lict  settlement  process. 
Armenia’s implementation of its obligation to withdraw 
its  armed  forces  from  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan  and 
to resolve outstanding issues of State responsibility for 
acts  deemed  wrongful  under  international  law  cannot 
be  made  contingent  on  addressing  the  aggressor’s 
unlawful and unacceptable claims.
The fact that the situation has remained unresolved 
for  so  long  does  not  speak  well  for  the  strength  and 
efficiency  of  the  international  organizations  that  are 
deaing  with  the  issue.  It  is  obvious  that  the  primary 
role  in  the  resolution  of  the  conf lict  lies  with  the 
States  concerned.  At  the  same  time,  when  it  comes  to 
principles, it is everyone’s duty to defend them. In that 
regard,  Azerbaijan  highly  appreciates  the  principled 
stance  of  Member  States,  as  expressed  in  various 
forums,  including  the  most  recent  summits  of  NATO, 
the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  the 
Non-Aligned Movement, on issues of vital importance 
to  our  country  and  pertaining  to  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity. We count on the continued resolve 
of the international community to defend the purposes 
and principles of the United Nations Charter, and on its 
strong solidarity with the just position of Azerbaijan.
We  would  like  to  express  our  concern  over  the 
situation with regard to the Middle East peace process, 
which  has  been  at  a  standstill  with  no  substantive 
progress 
talks 
the  resumption  of  direct 
towards 
A/67/PV.17
between  the  parties.  We  call  upon  the  parties  to 
create  the  conditions  conducive  to  the  resumption  of 
negotiations.  In  that  regard,  we  share  the  concerns  of 
the  international  community  over  settlement  activity 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  which  places 
a  tremendous  burden  on  civilians,  seriously  obstructs 
the  peace  process  and,  what  is  even  more  dangerous, 
threatens  the  two-State  solution  and  the  emergence  of 
a viable Palestinian State. We reiterate our support for 
Palestine’s application for admission to membership in 
the  United  Nations  and  look  forward  to  a  solution  to 
that issuebased on international law.
Azerbaijan 
also 
remains  deeply 
concerned 
about  the  escalation  of  violence  and  the  worsening 
socioeconomic and humanitarian situation in Syria. We 
believe  that  the  solution  to  the  crisis  lies  in  the  hands 
of  the  Syrian  people  and  in  their  desire  for  mutual 
reconciliation and an all-inclusive political process. We 
welcome  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi  as 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria,  and  express 
our firm support for his efforts.
We  must  once  again  express  our  deep  concern 
over  the  recent  escalation  provoked  by  the  blasphemy 
against Islam. We strongly condemn all assaults against 
religions.  At  the  same  time,  attacks  on  civilians,  in 
particular  on  diplomatic  personnel,  are  unjustifiable 
under  any  circumstances.  It  is  critical  to  foster  global 
dialogue  and  cooperation  to  promote  tolerance,  peace 
and better understanding across countries, cultures and 
civilizations.
We  are  confident  that  during  the  sixty-seventh 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  Member  States  will 
be  able  to  take  successful  steps  towards  a  stronger 
and  more  effective  United  Nations.  With  its  active 
participation  in  the  work  of  the  organs  of  the  United 
Nations,  most  notably  the  General  Assembly  and 
Security Council, Azerbaijan will continue to be in the 
forefront of international efforts to that end.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ratu Inoke Kubuabola, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  International  Cooperation  and 
Civil Aviation of the Republic of Fiji.
Mr.  Kubuabola  (Fiji):  On  behalf  of  the  Prime 
Minister  and  the  people  of  Fiji,  I  congratulate  the 
President  on  his  election  and  have  full  confidence  in 
his guidance of the sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly. I wish also to pay tribute to the tireless efforts 
12-52408
11
A/67/PV.17
of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser, 
through  what  has  been  an  eventful  and  turbulent  year 
for the global community of nations.
The  world  is  facing  many  challenges  that  demand 
our attention and collective action. As we all gathered 
last  June  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  for  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  millions 
of  people  were  recovering  from,  or  living  through, 
natural  disasters.  In  Fiji,  we  experienced  our  worst 
f looding  on  record  during  the  months  of  January  and 
April.  Beyond  the  human  cost,  the  economic  damage 
to  infrastructure,  schools,  businesses,  agriculture  and 
tourism — a sector that generates 33 per cent of Fiji’s 
gross  domestic  product  —  was  immense,  and  we  still 
have not fully recovered. Our f loods were by no means 
the  world’s  worst  climatic  disaster  of  the  year;  other 
peoples suffered much worse. But as a people who live 
on a group of small islands in the South Pacific, we feel 
particularly vulnerable.
The ongoing failure of the international community 
to seriously address climate change means that we will 
all see more frequent and more intense weather events. 
Those will erode our development gains and leave our 
people feeling poorer and less secure, so it is clear that 
it is indispensable to incorporate disaster risk reduction 
into global and national development strategies.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  is  now  under 
discussion,  and  frameworks  and  modalities  are  being 
developed.  However,  our  job  with  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  not  complete.  As  a 
global  community  of  nations  that  has  committed  to 
those  goals,  we  must  give  meaningful  support  to  all 
those  States  lagging  in  their  progress.  We  must  also 
ensure  that  a  post-2015  development  agenda  does  not 
simply  delay  the  target  date  for  the  MDG  indicators 
and  goals.  The  development  community  can  do  much 
more,  including  meeting  our  agreed  objectives  for 
development funding.
Fiji  has  embarked  on  a  comprehensive  reform 
programme not only to promote development, but also 
to improve the lives of our people. We have embraced 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  as  they  were 
intended — to provide specific objective standards for 
improving  the  lives  of  our  people.  We  are  the  second 
country  in  the  world  to  introduce  the  pneumococcal 
and  rotavirus  immunizations  as  standard,  with  a  view 
to minimizing child mortality. That represents progress 
towards meeting MDGs 4 and 5. 
But  the  reward  is  not  in  meeting  the  goals;  the 
reward is in children who are healthier, families that are 
less burdened, and generations given a better chance to 
become  productive  adults.  We  must  never  forget  that 
behind  each  of  those  Millennium  Development  Goals 
are human beings — the citizens of our nations — who 
look to us to provide opportunities for a fuller life. We 
still have work to do particularly in meeting MDGs 1, 
3 and 6, and we are working on those as best we can. 
The particular case of small island developing States 
in  meeting  those  goals  and  their  specific  challenges 
will be addressed by the third Global Conference on the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  to  be  held  in  the  Pacific  region  in  2014.  The 
success of the Conference will be measured in actions, 
not  simply  in  more  words.  Substantive  preparations 
for the Conference must therefore be oriented towards 
taking action and achieving specific goals.
In  addition  to  support  for  regional  development, 
Fiji is also taking the lead in the region on broadband 
connectivity.  It  is  clear  to  us  that  broadband  is 
an  essential  technology  for  improving  education, 
medicine,  agriculture  and  environmental  services. 
Broadband  technology  is  especially  important  to  us 
because  it  will  help  unite  a  dispersed  people  and  help 
draw us closer to our island neighbours in the Pacific. 
If  we  take  care  to  make  it  accessible,  affordable  and 
understandable,  we  will  bring  an  entire  universe  of 
wisdom and understanding to the smallest schools and 
remotest  villages.  Information  need  no  longer  be  the 
property mostly of people who live in the cities or who 
are attached to large institutions.
Like all islands nations, Fiji relies on the ocean and 
its  resources  as  our  economic  lifeblood  and  source  of 
sustainable  development.  While  fish  and  other  living 
marine  resources  have  been  vital  to  Fiji’s  economy 
and  livelihood,  we  believe  that  our  efforts  to  explore 
deep-sea  mineral  resources  have  greater  potential, 
provided that a precautionary approach with regard to 
environmental sustainability is ensured.
The  theme  selected  by  the  President  for  this 
year’s  general  debate,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or 
settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations  by 
peaceful  means”,  is  most  relevant  in  these  times  of 
turbulence across the world. The United Nations must 
continue  to  be  at  the  vanguard  of  international  peace 
and  security.  It  must  be  able  to  respond  to  new  types 
of  crises,  always  with  an  aim  to  stabilize  the  places  it 
12 
12-52408
enters  and  leave  behind  not  just  a  state  of  peace  and 
stability, but also an environment that fosters freedom 
and opportunity for the people.
In  that  context,  Fiji  continues  to  play  a  role  in 
peacekeeping  missions  around  the  world  that  is  far 
beyond  what  is  expected  of  a  country  of  our  size 
and  level  of  development.  We  contribute  troops  and 
police  personnel  to  operations  in  Iraq,  Liberia,  South 
Sudan,  Darfur  and  Timor-Leste.  Fiji  has  responded  to 
exigent  requests  by  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations,  above  and  beyond  agreed  contributions, 
to  ensure  that  peacekeeping  operations  in  Iraq  can 
continue  unhindered,  despite  the  additional  burden  it 
has placed on our troops operating far from home and 
for  longer  than  envisaged.  We  believe  that  all  nations 
must find ways to make the world safer, more humane 
and more livable, and as a people we are proud that we 
can make that contribution to global peace and security 
and  to  the  lives  of  citizens  far  away  from  us.  That  is 
not just Government policy; it is a calling that is deeply 
embraced by the Fijian people.
Recognizing  the  role  that  peacekeeping  missions 
with  expanded  mandates  play  in  helping  to  build  the 
foundations of a sustainable future, Fiji has in the past 
year also started to contribute in a small yet meaningful 
way to the corrections and justice sector of peacekeeping 
missions. Mentoring and strengthening corrections and 
justice  institutions  is  part  of  the  process  of  allowing 
post-conf lict  societies  to  take  control  of  their  own 
destinies,  and  Fiji  is  pleased  to  be  able  to  be  a  part  of 
those unfolding stories around the world.
Fiji has been honoured to be a part of that process 
in our own region through our contributions in Timor-
Leste  via  the  United  Nations  Integrated  Mission  in 
Timor-Leste  (UNMIT).  Following 
the  successful 
elections in Timor-Leste early this year, UNMIT will be 
in a position to wind down its operations later this year, 
allowing  the  Timorese  people  to  take  full  ownership 
and control of their own destinies. Timor-Leste is now 
an observer to the regional organization of which Fiji is 
the current Chair, the Melanesian Spearhead Group, and 
we trust that through that organization and the United 
Nations we will have many years of collaboration ahead.
In  the  spirit  of  supporting  self-determination, 
Fiji  continues  to  work  through  the  Decolonization 
Committee  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  New 
Caledonia’s right to self-determination, as expressed in 
the  Noumea  Accord,  is  implemented  faithfully  by  all 
A/67/PV.17
parties.  Fiji  works  through  the  Melanesian  Spearhead 
Group  in  monitoring  the  progress  of  implementation 
of  the  Noumea  Accord.  Additionally,  at  the  Engaging 
with the Pacific Meetings held in Fiji in 2011 and 2012, 
Pacific  island  leaders  committed  to  supporting  the 
inalienable  right  of  the  people  of  Ma’ohi  Nui/French 
Polynesia  to  self-determination.  We  look  forward  to 
working through the United Nations processes and with 
all  relevant  partners  in  order  to  have  the  question  of 
Ma’ohi  Nui’s  self-determination  placed  on  the  United 
Nations agenda again.
Fiji is itself working through a period of reform and 
transition.  We  are  building  a  sustainable  democracy 
founded on the principle of “one person, one vote, one 
value”. Elections will be held under a new constitution 
and  electoral  system  no  later  than  September  2014. 
Those  elections  will  see  the  citizens  of  Fiji  go  to  the 
polls  without  regard  to  their  race  for  the  first  time  in 
our  nation’s  history.  Fiji’s  new  constitution  will  be 
based  on  some  unassailable  democratic  principles:  a 
secular  State  that  recognizes  our  multi-faith  society; 
a  common  national  identity  in  which  all  citizens,  not 
just indigenous people, will call themselves Fijians for 
the first time; a war against corruption, which inhibits 
the  country’s  development;  an  independent  judiciary 
to  uphold  the  rights  of  every  Fijian;  social  justice  and 
the  elimination  of  all  forms  of  discrimination,  so  that 
every  Fijian  is  treated  equally;  good  and  transparent 
governance; and lowering the voting age to 18 to give 
our young people a voice.
We 
an 
set  up 
independent  Constitutional 
Commission  in  March  to  draft  a  new  constitution 
guided  by  those  principles.  It  will  be  a  constitution 
of  and  for  the  people.  Ordinary  Fijians  are  seizing 
the  opportunity  to  put  forward  their  views  at  public 
hearings throughout the country and to voice the issues 
that  are  most  important  to  them.  The  Commission’s 
recommendations  will  be  reviewed  by  a  Constituent 
Assembly in early 2013. This body, made up of a broad 
cross-section of Fijian society, will formulate the final 
document  through  public  discussion  and  debate.  That 
will  set  the  scene  for  elections  in  2014,  for  which 
preparations have already begun. Through a process of 
electronic  registration  carried  out  in  July  and  August 
of  this  year,  almost  half  a  million  Fijians  have  so  far 
registered to vote.
Throughout  this  process,  we  have  stayed  true  to 
the  principle  that  we  in  Fiji  must  determine  our  own 
destiny,  one  that  is  inclusive  and  fair  to  all  citizens. 
12-52408
13
A/67/PV.17
We  are  taking  the  time  necessary  to  get  it  right.  We 
have endured criticism and a degree of isolation at the 
hands  of  some  of  our  traditional  friends  among  the 
world’s  democracies.  By  now,  those  countries  have 
begun to recognize that we are serious about building a 
sustainable democracy that is racially blind, that offers 
equal  opportunity,  and  that  protects  all  citizens  from 
the tyranny of the majority. We need the support of the 
world’s democracies, and we invite them to work with us 
in our quest to establish the kind of democratic system 
that they enjoy. After 40 years of strife and instability, 
the  work  of  true  and  sustainable  democracy  is  just 
beginning, and we ask the international community to 
support us.
We  have  examined  and  redefined  our  world  view 
to  help  forge  productive,  friendly  relationships  with 
all  nations  of  goodwill.  In  2011,  Fiji  opened  three 
new  embassies  in  Brazil,  Indonesia  and  South  Africa. 
We  have  expanded  our  diplomatic  presence  this  year 
by  opening  embassies  in  the  Republic  of  Korea  and 
the  United  Arab  Emirates.  We  want  to  learn  more,  to 
exchange  more,  to  develop  more,  to  trade  more,  and 
certainly to contribute more through active and robust 
engagement with other nations.
In  the  United  Nations,  Fiji  pledges  to  work  in  the 
most  constructive  manner  possible,  and  to  respect  the 
ideals of the United Nations Charter. That includes the 
International  Labour  Organization  (ILO),  with  which 
we  are  engaged  at  the  present  moment.  The  Fijian 
Government’s commitment to a future of equality and 
opportunity  for  all  Fijians  includes  ensuring  that  the 
rights of working people are protected and extended. 
The  Constitutional  Commission  has  received 
submissions from all sectors of Fijian society, including 
trade unions and public employees. We expect the new 
constitution to help us continue to build an environment 
that  promotes  safe  working  conditions,  protects 
workers  from  arbitrary  actions,  and  allows  workers  to 
form  unions.  We  seek  to  ensure  that  unions  can  take 
collective action, as directed by their member workers, 
and  are  subject  only  to  restrictions  that  are  generally 
accepted as protecting the public good. We also seek to 
protect  the  rights  of  those  workers  who  choose  not  to 
affiliate with unions.
The Fijian Government is committed to protecting 
workers  who  are  fortunate  enough  to  have  jobs  and 
to  ensuring  that  all  workers  receive  fair  wages. 
We  are  equally  committed  to  creating  employment 
opportunities  for  the  young  and  less  aff luent.  As  part 
of  Fiji’s  progress  in  reform  towards  democracy,  we 
are  reviewing  our  current  labour  laws  to  ensure  their 
compliance  with  the  34  ILO  conventions  that  Fiji  has 
ratified. The tripartite Employment Relations Advisory 
Board  is  a  key  participant  in  this  process.  This  year 
alone, Fiji has ratified or adopted eight ILO instruments, 
as recommended by the tripartite Board, including the 
2006 Maritime Labour Convention. 
the  Government 
By  empowering  Fijians, 
is 
seeking to ensure that all citizens, regardless of ethnic 
background, are on a level playing field and in possession 
of  the  tools  needed  to  compete  with  their  peers  in  the 
global community, improve their livelihoods and fulfil 
their  dreams.  By  modernizing  Fiji,  the  Government  is 
seeking  to  make  the  country  and  its  institutions  and 
legal system strong, independent and world-class.
Fiji  may  be  a  relatively  small  country,  but  it  has 
big  aspirations.  They  include  being  a  good  global 
citizen,  a  leader  by  example  among  island  nations, 
and  an  actively  engaged  member  of  the  international 
community.  In  the  spirit  of  constructive  contribution 
to  the  global  community  and  the  United  Nations,  I 
am  pleased  to  say  that  at  today’s  ministerial  meeting 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  Fiji  was  endorsed  as 
the  Chair  of  the  Group  for  the  year  2013.  Fiji  takes 
on  this  responsibility  with  a  deep  sense  of  humility,  a 
willingness to work collaboratively with all States, and 
a commitment to addressing the inequalities that exist 
between developing and developed countries.
As  we  look  forward  to  a  productive  sixty-seventh 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  reiterate  our  full 
support for and cooperation with the President and all 
Members,  with  a  view  to  advancing  the  objectives  of 
this body and the aspirations of the global community.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Gilbert Saboya Sunyé, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Institutional  Relations  of  the 
Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Saboya  Sunyé  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  first 
like  to  extend  hearty  congratulations  to  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session, 
Mr. Jeremić, to whom I wish the greatest success in his 
work.
Just  one  year  ago, 
(see  A/66/PV.27)  by 
I  ended  my  statement 
the  notion  of 
reasserting 
14 
12-52408
commitment  as  a  fundamental  value  and  linchpin 
of  our  political  action,  understood  as  a  deep  belief 
in  the  values  of  democracy,  respect  for  human  rights 
and  the  rule  of  law;  as  the  assumption  of  individual 
responsibilities  for  a  common  project;  and  ultimately 
as a desire for dialogue and understanding. It is in the 
pursuit  of  that  commitment  and  that  balance  —  what 
we might call the right balance — that the difficulty of 
Government resides. That is the case at home, in every 
one  of  our  States,  and  also  in  our  shared  home  of  the 
United Nations.
A year ago in this Assembly, we echoed a phrase of 
the  then  French  President,  who  stated:  “Let  us  choose 
the  path  of  compromise,  which  is  neither  renunciation 
nor repudiation, but which allows us to move forward, 
step by step” (A/66/PV.11, p. 23). Indeed, on the path of 
compromise and the right balance, we cannot and must 
not  abandon  the  defence  of  human  rights,  the  rule  of 
law  and  the  most  essential  democratic  values  such  as 
freedom of expression. We cannot and should not deny 
respect to others. 
However, establishing a fair balance does not mean 
conducting  a  balancing  act.  Indeed,  that  balance  must 
be based on strong principles. There can be no excuse 
for violence, intolerance or impunity. President Obama 
was  right  when  he  mentioned  in  this  Hall  that  the 
recent  attacks  on  diplomatic  missions  were  not  solely 
an attack on the United States, but also an assault on the 
foundations of the United Nations itself. There can be 
no excuse or impunity for such acts. 
(spoke in English)
We are all Chris Stevens. But what defines us is not 
how we fall but how we rise again. We will stand by all 
Chris  Stevens  as  they  rise  to  defend  the  ideals  of  the 
United Nations. 
(spoke in Catalan)
Allow  me  today  to  echo  the  words  of  the  new 
President  of  the  French  Republic,  François  Hollande, 
Co-Prince of Andorra, who stated before this Assembly 
that  “The  mission  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  tackle 
these challenges and to find strong and just responses to 
them together.” (A/67/PV.6, p. 43) For over 65 years, the 
United Nations has been a reference for peace, justice 
and respect for human rights. Remarkable progress has 
indeed been observed in recent years. It is no less true, 
however,  that  the  countries  represented  here  cannot 
A/67/PV.17
afford  the  luxury  of  falling  into  complacency.  The 
demand for just and strong responses is very real.
in  Syria  have  presented 
The  change  of  regime  in  Libya  and  the  ongoing 
grievous  conf lict 
the 
international community with the awkward dilemma of 
having to find a fair balance between resolving conf licts 
peacefully  and  the  rule  of  law  —  in  short,  between 
peace and justice. It would appear that, in order to attain 
a  peaceful  solution  to  a  conf lict  or  to  end  hostilities, 
justice must be sacrificed while those who have violated 
human rights go unpunished; or that, due to inf lexible 
application of international law, conf licts will continue 
forever. A fair balance must not allow either those who 
violate human rights to go unpunished, or conf licts to 
continue  endlessly.  With  regard  to  Syria,  it  is  time  to 
support open societies and political transitions that can 
guarantee  a  framework  for  democratic  development.  I 
wish to praise the commitment of the Secretary-General 
and Joint Special Representative Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi 
to finding a solution to the conf lict in Syria. 
The  Secretary-General  has  said 
that  people 
want  progress  and  solutions  today.  They  want  ideas, 
leadership  and  concrete  hope  for  the  future.  The 
Secretary-General’s  words  accurately  ref lect  what  the 
world  expects  from  all  Member  States.  We  also  need 
to  maintain  perspective,  because  if  complacency  is 
dangerous,  so  too  are  harsh  criticism  and  pessimism. 
While  the  working  methods  of  the  United  Nations 
system are far from optimal, we should not forget that 
the  reality  of  today  seemed  an  unattainable  dream  a 
century  ago.  We  should  move  on  from  talk  of  dreams 
to talk of ambition. We should move on from dreaming 
about  change  to  exerting  the  ambition  to  change.  We 
should  move  on  from  “I  have  a  dream”,  as  stated  by 
Martin Luther King, Jr., to speaking about the ambition 
that we all share. 
In his statement at the opening of the general debate 
(see A/67/PV.6), Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon rightly 
mentioned  raising  our  levels  of  ambition.  The  step 
from  dream  to  ambition  needs  perspective;  dreaming 
requires knowing only how we would like things to be, 
but having and realizing ambition requires us to know 
how  far  we  are  prepared  to  go,  while  bearing  very 
much  in  mind  the  path  travelled  and  everything  to  be 
experienced along the way.
In  that  respect  the  United  Nations  and  its  system 
allow us to face the future with cautious optimism, as 
the world has been better and more just with the presence 
12-52408
15
A/67/PV.17
of  the  United  Nations  than  without  it.  However,  when 
we look at its evolution, we realize that something is not 
quite  right,  as  the  evolution  process  has  been  fraught 
with  limitations,  shortcomings  and  obstacles  that  the 
international community must address in its efforts to 
resolve  conf licts  peacefully  and  in  accordance  with 
the  law.  The  Secretary-General  rightly  emphasized 
his  new  Education  First  initiative,  which  encourages 
democratic  values,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law. 
And those values can guarantee equal opportunity and 
social cohesion. 
During its forthcoming presidency of the Council of 
Europe, Andorra will prioritize education as a tool for 
encouraging democratic values, respect for human rights 
and  the  rule  of  law.  Andorra  is  particularly  sensitive 
to  education,  not  only  in  the  sphere  of  international 
cooperation,  but  also  domestically,  as  it  is  aware  that 
its  unique,  multicultural  and  multilingual  educational 
approach, featuring three public systems — Andorran, 
French and Spanish — in a small society with its own 
identity, has not been a problem, but rather an asset and 
an essential element of social cohesion.
(spoke in French)
We  see  that  commitment  to  multiculturalism  and 
multilingualism  within  the  francophone  community. 
The  commitment  to  openness  and  exchange  among 
individuals  is  good  and  is  far  from  self-absorption  in 
one’s  own  language  or  culture.  Now  is  not  the  time 
for  self-absorption  but  rather  for  openness;  it  is  time 
for  ambition  and  not  protectionism.  The  work  of  the 
francophone  community  is  deeply  aligned  with  our 
values, and we will convene in Africa at the forthcoming 
Summit  of  the  Francophonie  to  defend  the  spirit  of 
openness to democratic values and human rights.
(spoke in Spanish)
That  commitment  to  multiculturalism  also  belies 
the  strong  bonds  we  feel  with  our  Latin  American 
friends. Our involvement within the General Assembly 
in  the  preparatory  work  for  the  forthcoming  Cadiz 
summit,  to  be  hosted  by  our  dear  neighbour  Spain, 
should  also  be  viewed  through  the  prism  of  openness 
and the defence of democratic values, human rights and 
the rule of law. 
(spoke in Catalan)
The  Principality  of  Andorra  today  reasserts  its 
commitment  to  the  founding  principles  of  the  United 
Nations:  the  promotion  of  peace,  liberty,  justice, 
democracy  and  human  rights.  Those  are  not  utopian 
values  and  principles;  quite  the  contrary,  it  would  be 
unrealistic and unthinkable to seek to establish stability 
in  the  world  with  any  other  values. What  is  important 
is  to  come  here  today  to  proclaim  not  that  Andorra 
has  one  of  the  oldest  and  most  stable  parliaments  and 
political systems on the planet, but that at the end of the 
thirteenth century its political system was consolidated 
in a very short period of time and in circumstances that 
were far from ideal. In a very brief time span, the same 
system was again able to adapt to modern reality at the 
end of the twentieth century. In our country, indeed, it 
was  not  until  1971  that  women  were  entitled  to  vote. 
Yet only 40 years later, in 2011 the people of Andorra 
elected a Parliament with the second-highest number of 
female representatives in the world. This is why I spoke 
earlier of viewing things from a perspective of process 
and evolution. 
History  shows  us  that  what  appeared  utopian 
not  long  ago  has  become  reality  today.  We  should 
not  assume  that  things  cannot  change  and  cannot  get 
better. The limits that the United Nations seems to have 
encountered  after  almost  seven  decades  of  existence 
will be overcome one day, and today’s challenges will 
be viewed as things of the past. The numerous countries 
that form the international community have shown how 
rapidly  things  can  change  when  there  is  a  will  to  act. 
One  only  has  to  take  a  look  at  the  determination  with 
which  many  of  the  members  of  this  Assembly  have 
joined  forces  and  coordinated  their  policies  to  find 
solutions to the grave financial and economic crisis that 
has rocked the world over the last few years.
The  need  for  rapid  and  profound  change  has  also 
arrived in Andorra. A year ago, we stated in our speech 
that our country had one of the most closed economies 
on  the  planet  and  that  it  posed  significant  barriers  to 
foreign  investment,  as  foreigners  had  to  meet  costly 
requirements  to  attain  full  economic  rights.  Today, 
only 12 months later, the Andorran economy is 100 per 
cent open to foreign capital, and every foreign resident 
is granted full economic rights from the first day of his 
or her residency. 
The President took the Chair.
Earlier,  I  referred  to  openness  in  a  broad  sense, 
but  today  economic  openness  should  enable  us  to 
rediscover the path of inclusive growth that has defined 
us, albeit now within an open and diversified economy 
geared  to  the  pursuit  of  competitiveness,  innovation 
16 
12-52408
A/67/PV.17
and  general  progress.  This  entire  process  has  been 
accompanied  by  an  updating  of  the  Andorran  model, 
with an appropriate tax framework and a commitment 
to  transparency  towards  the  international  community. 
The whole process is based on the belief that recovery 
means  not  faint-hearted  withdrawal,  but  rather  the 
ambition  to  open  up  to  the  world  and  a  willingness  to 
compete.  That  conviction  is  the  driving  force  behind 
the  implementation  by  the  Principality  of  Andorra  of 
some of the most significant socioeconomic changes in 
its entire history.
Twenty  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  pioneered 
the  promotion  of  sustainable  development.  When  the 
international  community  met  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in 
1992,  at  what  was  called  the  Earth  Summit,  the  need 
to  consider  sustainable  growth  became  manifest  and 
the  subject  was  tackled  from  a  threefold  economic, 
environmental and social perspective. The conclusions 
of that Rio Summit, to which scant or no attention has 
been paid, are today so topical that the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  held  in  Rio 
in  June,  stressed  the  very  same  policies.  However, 
although 20 years ago sustainability might have seemed 
solely  an  environmental  issue,  experience  has  shown 
us  that  public  finance,  economic  growth  and  our 
model  of  social  protections  must  also  be  sustainable. 
The challenge of sustainability is now, more than ever, 
shared and interdisciplinary.
Many  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  was  created 
in  the  belief  that  maintaining  peace  and  security  in 
the  world  was  unrealistic  without  advances  in  human 
rights,  in  international  law  and  in  democracy.  There 
can  be  no  lasting  peace  or  security  without  liberty  or 
justice.  More  recently,  we  have  all  learned  not  only 
that  separating  democracy  from  economic  progress 
makes  no  sense,  but  also  that  it  is  foolish  to  believe 
in  unrestrained,  unlimited  growth  at  any  cost,  the 
consequences of which we are still feeling. 
A few days ago, at the reception for the diplomatic 
corps,  our  Episcopal  Co-Prince,  Joan  Enric  Vives 
Sicilia,  noted  the  dangerous  tendency  to  prioritize 
having rather than being. We must learn the lessons of 
recent years, in which the desire to have everything we 
wanted too often led us to forget to pursue everything 
we  needed.  We  must  build  a  more  sustainable,  more 
interrelated and more co-responsible world in order to 
lay the foundations for more secure economic growth. 
A pledge to progress and prosperity also means support 
for democracy, for security and for peace.
The  President: We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in 
the general debate for this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members that statements made in exercise of the right 
of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second, and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  Earlier  today,  the  Foreign  Minister 
of Chile referred to the address to the Assembly made 
by  the  Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational 
State of Bolivia, Evo Morales Ayma. Bolivia cannot and 
will not remain silent about the series of inaccuracies, 
omissions  and  falsehoods  that  were  presented  to  the 
Assembly as facts. 
The Foreign Minister of Chile stated that “Bolivia 
has  no  right  to  claim  sovereign  access  to  the  sea”  and 
that  “Chile  has  fully  met  its  obligations”  under  the 
Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  of  1904  (A/66/PV.15). 
What  he  failed  to  say  is  that  in  1879  Chile  invaded 
Bolivian  territory,  with  the  help  of  transnational 
companies, for the oligarchic purposes of appropriating 
for  itself  natural  resources  belonging  to  Bolivians.  He 
also omitted to say that the result of that invasion was 
an  unjust  and  imposed  treaty  that  has  not  been  fully 
implemented. 
It  is  unjust  in  that  it  deprives  a  country  of  the 
exercise of many of its rights and has left a deep wound 
in the heart of South America in an attempt to acquire 
rights  by  the  use  of  force.  The  Treaty  was  imposed 
because  it  was  concluded  through  the  use  of  force, 
not  with  free  consent  but  under  threat.  The  Treaty  is 
unfulfilled  because  the  Republic  of  Chile  has  not 
implemented  its  provisions.  To  cite  one  example,  the 
restrictions  on  free  transit  and  the  nearly  decade-long 
closure on the Chilean side of the Arica-La Paz railway 
are, among other things, undeniable evidence of Chile’s 
non-observance of the provisions of the Treaty with the 
State of Bolivia. 
The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  rejects  the 
subjective  views  put  forward  by  Chile  about  events  in 
the League of Nations in 1921 and at the forty-second 
General  Assembly  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States.  Neither  that  organization  nor  its  Judicial 
Committee  made  a  negative  evaluation  of  the  basis 
for  Bolivia’s  claim.  Bolivia  categorically  rejects  any 
statement  to  the  effect  that  the  League  of  Nations  or 
12-52408
17
A/67/PV.17
any  other  judicial  or  multilateral  organ  of  that  time 
or  of  ours  has  denied  the  right  of  Bolivia  to  free  and 
sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean and its coast. 
The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  rejects  the 
assertion  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Chile 
that  the  Constitution  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia  adopted  in  2009  includes  provisions  that 
contravene  international  law.    We  maintain  that,  on 
the  contrary,  those  provisions  are  in  full  conformity 
with  international  law,  even  as  we  reaffirm  our  right 
to a sovereign coastal outlet to the Pacific Ocean, and 
reassert  the  commitment  of  the  Bolivian  State  to  the 
mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes set 
out in Article 33 of the United Nations Charter. 
For decades, Bolivia has sought to resolve the matter 
through dialogue. However, in 2010 Chile rejected the 
attempts  at  reconciliation  made  in  a  13-point  agenda, 
which included useful and feasible proposals to resolve 
the  injustice.  Chile  has  stated  that  our  dispute  is  a 
strictly bilateral matter, but we recall that there are 11 
resolutions  of  the  Organization  of  American  States  in 
force, among which we highlight resolution 426 of the 
General  Assembly  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States, of 31 October 1979, a century after the invasion, 
which states that 
“it  is  of  continuing  hemispheric  interest  that  an 
equitable  solution  be  found  whereby  Bolivia  will 
obtain  appropriate  sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific 
Ocean,  and  (…)  resolves  to  recommend  to  the 
states  most  directly  concerned  with  this  problem 
that  they  open  negotiations  for  the  purpose  of 
providing  Bolivia  with  a  free  and  sovereign 
territorial  connection  with  the  Pacific  Ocean. 
These negotiations shall take into account the rights 
and  interests  of  the  parties  involved,  and  might 
consider,  among  other  things,  the  inclusion  of  a 
port area for integrated multinational development, 
as well as the Bolivian proposal that no territorial 
compensation be included.”
We believe that recent statements that use the term 
“force” are incompatible with the spirit not only of the 
session of the General Assembly that has begun, whose 
theme is the “Bringing about adjustment or settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means”,  but  also  runs  counter  to  the  principles  of  the 
Organization. As President Morales Ayma stated in his 
address  to  the  Assembly,  this  is  no  longer  the  time  of 
intra-regional or foreign colonization. 
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  must 
respond on behalf of the State of Chile to the assertions 
made  by  the  delegation  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia,  which  is  seeking  once  again  to  distract  the 
attention  of  the  Assembly  towards  issues  that  are 
outside its competence by invoking my country’s name. 
Chile  is  a  State  that  respects  international  law 
and  the  sovereign  equality  of    all  members  of  the 
international  community. 
It  actively  cooperates 
with  the  international  human  rights  system  and  has 
demonstrated  its  support  for  international  peace  and 
security, in particular through its peacekeeping troops. 
My  Government  cannot  allow  the  general  debate 
to  be  used  as  a  pretext  to  revisit  history  and  existing 
treaties  and  to  distort  the  context  of  our  relationship 
with Bolivia. We have offered signs of our willingness 
to  engage  in  broad  dialogue.  Our  physical  integration 
process with Bolivia, in which the free transit regime is 
unimpeded and duty free, has achieved positive results. 
We have granted unilateral benefits that serve Bolivia’s 
foreign  trade  and  all  of  its  inhabitants.  At  the  forty-
second regular session of the General Assembly of the 
Organization of American States, held in Cochabamba 
in  June,  no  country  indicated  that  this  subject  should 
be  addressed  within  an  international  organization  or 
on  the  basis  of  resolutions  that  have  been  superceded 
by 
subsequent  developments.  The  organization 
underscored the bilateral nature of the matter. 
President  Morales  Ayma,  in  an  interview  given  to  
El Mercurio, published on 23 March 2011, provided an 
extensive overview of the dialogue process in which he 
was engaged at the time with the Chilean Government, 
expressing  his  satisfaction  and  confidence  that  the 
process  would  end  successfully.  For  unexplained 
reasons,  on  the  same  day  he  indicated  in  an  address 
given  in  his  country,  and  using  offensive  and  hostile 
language,  that  the  negotiations  were  over  and  that 
Bolivia would litigate its maritime aspirations. There is 
a public record of all he said. 
Chile  once  again  reaffirms  its  comprehensive 
commitment  to  the  rule  of  international  law.  Respect 
for  and  compliance  with  international  treaties  and  the 
peaceful coexistence between States are foundations of 
our policy. Nothing shall lead my country to stray from 
that duty, and we hope that Bolivia will also return to 
the bilateral approach. 
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  Today,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
18 
12-52408
A/67/PV.17
South Korea made a statement touching on the nuclear 
issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and  the  so-called  human  rights  in  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Concerning  those  issues, 
the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  totally  rejects  those  allegations  as  provocative 
and  unsubstantiated  statements  with  no  grounds  and 
considers them to be misleading with regard to reality 
and the facts  and distorting of the truth. In that regard, 
the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea would like to clarify its position. 
First, with regard to the origins of the nuclear issue 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  first  nuclear  weapon 
was  introduced  by  the  largest  nuclear-weapon  State, 
the  United  States.  The  United  States  did  not  hesitate 
to  bring  and  deploy  the  first  nuclear  weapon  in  South 
Korea in 1957. In the 1970s, again the United States did 
not hesitate to increase the number of nuclear weapons 
to over 1,000.
With  regard  to  the  policy  or  doctrine  about  how 
to use nuclear weapons, in the 1950s former President 
Truman again did not hesitate to give orders to prepare 
to use the strategic force of nuclear weapons during the 
time of the Korean War. Again, the Force Commander 
at  the  time,  General  MacArthur,  did  not  hesitate  to 
openly blackmail the people of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  entire  Korean  nation  by 
saying that he would spray radioactive nuclear powder. 
He  said  that  only  after  120  years  would  living  things 
begin to grow again. In 2002, the Bush Administration 
listed  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  as 
part  of  the  axis  of  evil,  together  with  Iran  and  Iraq, 
and  again  the  Bush  Administration  did  not  hesitate  to 
put  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  on  the 
list  for  pre-emptive  nuclear  first  strike,  together  with 
Iran, Iraq, Syria, China and Russia. In 2010, the current 
Administration  again  did  not  hesitate  to  clarify  its 
position  that  the  non-nuclear  weapon  States,  with  the 
exception of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and Iran, would be given so-called security assurances. 
That  means  that  the  United  States  will  continue  to 
pre-emptively target the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea and Iran. All those facts very clearly indicate 
that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
been living under the direct threat of nuclear weapons 
and blackmail. 
Secondly,  there  is  the  issue  of  threat.  In  its 
statement,  South  Korea  alleged 
the  nuclear 
weapons of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
that 
are a threat to North-East Asia. That is not at all true. 
As  far  as  the  threat  is  concerned,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has a different perspective. 
As soon as they came to power in 2008, the incumbent 
South  Korean  authorities  totally  rejected  the  Joint 
Declaration adopted twice at the Inter-Korean summit 
meetings  in  2000  and  2007,  driving  the  situation  into 
its worst state ever in the history of the divided Korean 
nation.  Those  two  Inter-Korean  summit  meetings  and 
Declarations were regarded as a ref lection of the hope 
for  peace  and  unification  of  the  entire  Korean  nation 
and  international  community.  It  was  demonstrated  by 
the  Assembly’s  unanimous  adoption  of  a  resolution 
in  this  very  Hall,  giving  great  hope  and  expectations 
for the eventual unification of the country and lasting 
peace on the Korean peninsula and in the region.
Moreover,  South  Korea  did  not  hesitate  to  join  in 
hostile  activities  and  military  manoeuvres  with  the 
United  States.  Those  two  countries  have  not  hesitated 
to  engage  every  year  in  large-scale  joint  military 
exercises. For them, it is everyday business to threaten 
and  challenge  the  desire  of  the  region  and  the  entire 
international community for peace, security and détente 
in  the  Korean  peninsula.  Those  military  exercises  are 
based  on  the  so-called  joint  operation  plans  5029  and 
5030; they have various numbers and code names. They 
presuppose  the  occupation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  followed  by  military  rule.  They 
have had this war scenario ready for some years now. 
A  typical  example  of  that  was  the  operation  held 
just last month by South Korea and the United States. It 
was the largest ever. Over 400,000 troops and different 
types  of  sophisticated  weapons  were  involved.  All 
the  troops  of  the  various  units  were  involved,  heavily 
trained  and  fully  ready  to  cross  into  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea at any time once the order 
was given. That means that the United States and South 
Korea  are  fully  ready  to  cross  the  demarcation  line  to 
attack the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. That 
is the reality.
Concerning the missile issue, again, South Korea did 
not hesitate to join in categorizing the satellite launch, 
which  was  entirely  legitimate  under  international  law, 
as a ballistic missile launch. Never before in the history 
of  the  Security  Council  has  a  satellite  been  accused 
of  being  a  ballistic  missile.  The  United  States  is  the 
largest  producer  of  missiles  and  the  largest  launcher 
of  satellites,  but  the  Security  Council  has  never  taken 
action  on  that  issue.  Only  the  Democratic  People’s 
12-52408
19
A/67/PV.17
Republic  of  Korea  was  blamed,  and  South  Korea  was 
hell-bent on joining in against the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea.
Thirdly, as far as human rights are concerned, the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  totally  rejects 
what  they  call  the  resolution  on  the  human  rights 
situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
The most serious violator of human rights in the world 
is none other than South Korea. The incumbent South 
Korean authorities are using a dictatorship under what 
they  call  the  updated  national  security  law.  It  offers 
no  guarantee  whatsoever  of  political  freedom,  social 
freedom or democracy.
In  conclusion,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  delegation  once  again  clarifies  the  position 
that  its  possession  of  a  nuclear  weapon  is  due  to  the 
blackmailing  and  hostilities  of  the  United  States 
and  South  Korea,  which  threaten  the  survival  and 
sovereignty  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. That is the stark reality in the Korean peninsula.
Mr.  Sahraei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 
Iranian  islands  of  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb  and 
Lesser Tunb are an integral and eternal part of Iranian 
territory.  The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  categorically  rejects  any  claim  to  the  contrary, 
including the baseless claim raised in today’s meeting. 
Iran underlines that the measures undertaken on those 
islands  by  the  Iranian  authorities  are  fully  based  on 
the  sovereign  rights  of  Iran  and  the  principle  of  its 
territorial integrity, as enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations and the provisions of international law. 
While  stressing  the  importance  of  the  brotherly 
and good-neighbourly relations that exist between Iran 
and  its  neighbouring  countries  in  the  Persian  Gulf, 
we  continue  to  believe  that  constructive  negotiations 
between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
and the relevant officials of the United Arab Emirates 
will lead to the further expansion of relations in various 
fields  and  help  to  remove  any  misunderstanding 
that  may  arise  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of 
the  arrangements  emanating  from  the  documents 
exchanged in 1971 on that issue.
Moreover,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  wishes  to 
stress that the only historically correct and universally 
recognized  name  for  the  body  of  water  between  Iran 
and the Arabian peninsula, as emphasized by the United 
Nations itself, is the Persian Gulf. Accordingly, any use 
of a fabricated name for that body of water, including the 
fabricated  name  used  in  the  statement  of  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  is 
totally  groundless  and  absolutely  unacceptable,  and 
bears no legal or political value.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia 
wishes to exercise its right to reply in order to respond 
once again to the distortion presented by the delegation 
of the Republic of Chile.
The Chilean delegation referred to 23 March. That 
is  the  date  on  which  the  Bolivian  people  painfully 
commemorate  the  loss  of  our  coast  as  the  result 
of  an  invasion  and  the  use  of  force.  On  that  day,  we 
commemorate the death of one of our heroes in defence 
of  Bolivian  territory  at  the  bridge  of  Topáter.  On  that 
day, young people, boys and girls, take to the streets in 
processions in Bolivia, clamouring for the return of our 
sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean.
Undeniably,  Chile  has  failed  to  comply  with  the 
provisions of the 1904 Treaty of Peace and Friendship 
between  Chile  and  Bolivia.  Not  only  does  the  legal 
free transit regime not exist, but in fact difficulties and 
obstacles have been raised that have largely voided the 
Treaty. By way of example, we reiterate the case of the 
Arica-La  Paz  railway,  in  addition  to  the  limitations 
imposed  on  the  transport  of  goods  and  persons  to  the 
ports of the Pacific Ocean.
Reference  has  been  made  to  an  attempt  to  revise 
history,  but  what  prevails  in  the  scenario  is  the  need 
to  rectify  the  injustices  that  have  been  committed 
throughout the history of our people and that continue to 
wreak suffering upon individuals. No military victory, 
no  degree  of  arrogance  grants  unlimited  rights  when 
they  are  the  result  of  force,  nor  should  any  treaty  that 
is imposed by force or threat be considered immutable 
over  time,  especially  when  it  exercises  a  stranglehold 
on  an  entire  population.  For  decades  now,  Bolivia  has 
underscored  the  need  for  dialogue,  but  to  date,  after 
more  than  100  years  since  that  invasion,  the  dialogue 
has received no tangible response acknowledging that, 
as  stipulated  in  the  resolution  of  the  Organization  of 
American  States,  there  is  a  need  to  restore  sovereign 
maritime access to the Plurinational State of Bolivia. 
Bolivia  shall  continue  to  raise  the  issue  in  all 
international  forums,  to  the  extent  permitted  by 
international  law,  in  order  to  demand  the  return  of  its 
maritime outlet based on reason, international law and 
20 
12-52408
A/67/PV.17
justice. The Political Constitution of our State referred 
to by the delegation of Chile states that 
international law, which Chile cannot accept and which 
are not valid.
“[t]he  effective  solution  to  the  maritime  dispute 
through  peaceful  means  and  the  full  exercise  of 
sovereignty  over  that  territory  are  permanent  and 
inalienable objectives of the Bolivian State”.
In  recent  years,  President  Morales  Ayma  has 
updated the Assembly on the setbacks or progress made 
in  the  bilateral  process.  Unfortunately,  the  bilateral 
dialogue was unilaterally called off by Chile. I reiterate 
that Bolivia naturally reserves the right to apply to all 
international and jurisdictional forums that permit it to 
regain its sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean.
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
delegation of Bolivia has a distorted vision not only of 
history, but also of the facts. The 1904 Treaty was signed 
20  years  after  the  ceasefire.  I  reiterate  that  it  was  not 
Chile that called off the dialogue with Bolivia — quite 
the  contrary.  In  spite  of  those  circumstances,  we  have 
continued to appeal to Bolivia for understanding, as did 
our Minister for Foreign Affairs today. 
The representative of Bolivia suggested that Chile 
has  not  complied  with  the  1904  Treaty.  The  General 
Assembly  should  know  that  the  Arica-La  Paz  railway 
to  which  he  referred  was  practically  destroyed  after  it 
had been operated by a Bolivian company, which made 
it necessary not only to rehabilitate the rails themselves 
but  to  clean  up  the  contamination  that  resulted  from 
the transport of minerals. Bolivia knows that Chile has 
invested  tens  of  millions  of  dollars  in  recent  years  to 
ensure  that  the  railway  shall  become  operative  once 
again this year.
Similarly,  we  must  underscore  that  the  President 
of  Bolivia,  when  addressing  the  General  Assembly 
(see A/67/PV.11), indicated with pride that his country’s 
reserves  had  risen  for  the  first  time  $13  billion.  We 
might  therefore  indicate  that,  without  a  doubt,  a 
significant  portion  of  that  increase  in  its  reserves  is 
due to Bolivia’s foreign trade, which is largely carried 
out  using  Chilean  ports,  precisely  on  the  basis  of  the 
1904 Treaty and on the free transit facilities that Chile 
provides. 
Chile  remains  prepared 
to  resume  dialogue, 
but  without  preconditions  demanding,  without  legal 
foundation,  a  sovereign  maritime  access,  or  that 
rely  on  constitutional  provisions  that  run  counter  to 
Mr.  Al-Yafei  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  must  exercise  my  right  of  reply  to  the  false 
and  illegal  claims  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  concerning  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  islands  of  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb  and 
Lesser  Tunb.  My  country,  which  has  never  renounced 
its  sovereign,  legitimate  and  historic  rights  to  those 
three  islands,  which  have  been  militarily  occupied  by 
Iran since 1971, categorically rejects all the erroneous 
Iranian  allegations,  which  are  contrary  to  all  of  the 
historical and legal facts and documents affirming the 
sovereignty  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  over  those 
three islands. 
My  country  categorically  rejects,  on  the  basis  of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of 
international  law,  all  of  the  illegal  measures  that  Iran 
has  taken  with  respect  to  those  islands.  We  therefore 
appeal  anew  to  the  international  community  to  urge 
the Islamic Republic of Iran to engage in unconditional 
bilateral negotiations with the United Arab Emirates, in 
accordance with the United Nations Charter, in order to 
put a definitive end to the occupation of the three islands 
that belong to the United Arab Emirates, or alternatively 
to request arbitration before the International Court of 
Justice, as a number of countries have done in dealing 
with similar cases. 
We  again  emphasize  that  the  strengthening  of 
relations of cooperation between the States of the region 
and Iran, and the promotion of stability and economic 
prosperity  in  the  Arabian  Gulf  region  require  Iran  to 
commit  to  establishing  good-neighbourly  relations 
based  on  the  principles  of  respect  for  the  sovereignty 
and  independence  of  States,  their  territorial  integrity 
and non-interference in their internal affairs.
Mr.  Sahraei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Based  on 
a  vast  variety  of  historical  documents,  it  is  perfectly 
evident  that  throughout  history  the  three  islands  in 
question have been an integral part of Iranian territory. 
As  has  been  emphasized  regularly,  the  territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran over the islands is not negotiable. In that regard, my 
country stands ready to have bilateral discussions with 
the  relevant  officials  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  in 
order to remove any concern or any misunderstanding 
that  may  arise  regarding  the  implementation  of  the 
12-52408
21
A/67/PV.17
agreement  concluded  between  the  two  countries  in 
1971 on the issue.
Mr.  Al-Yafei  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I am taking the f loor once again in exercise of 
my country’s right of reply to respond to the claim made 
by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
that  his  country  possesses  legal  documents  regarding 
its  occupation  of  the  three  islands  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates.  If  that  were  true,  I  would  ask  Iran  to  table 
those documents and to bring the matter to the attention 
of the International Court of Justice, which would then 
examine Iran’s claims and allegations. 
I think that it is obvious that despite Iran’s claims 
to  have  the  right  to  militarily  occupy  the  territory 
of  another  State,  and  given  the  fact  that  Iran  refuses 
to  enter  into  direct  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
its  occupation  of  the  Emirate  islands  and  to  submit 
the  question  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  it 
obviously cannot offer any legal or historical document 
to substantiate its allegations. That is well known, and 
Iran  is  continuing  to  exercise  a  fait  accompli  policy 
by  maintaining  its  illegal  military  occupation  of  three 
islands of the United Arab Emirates.  
The meeting rose at 8.55 p.m. 
22 
12-52408
