United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
14th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 September 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.14
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Momen 
(Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.55 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Najib Mikati, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic.
Mr.  Najib  Mikati,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Lebanese  Republic,  was  escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming Mr. Najib Mikati, President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Mikati  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session. I am confident that the Assembly’s 
work will be crowned with success, thanks to his rich 
diplomatic  experience  and  expertise.  I  assure  him  of 
Lebanon’s full support in his efforts. I would also like to 
thank His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session, 
for  his  tireless  efforts  and  remarkable  achievements.  I 
also extend my gratitude to the Secretary-General, His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  keen  concern 
over  critical  global  issues,  especially  those  related  to 
the  Middle  East,  in  particular  my  country,  Lebanon, 
which was mentioned in his annual report (A/67/1).
Lebanon, a founding State Member of the United 
Nations,  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  noble 
principles and human values that make up the founding 
pillars  of  the  Organization.  Those  standards  enable  it 
to  act  globally  for  justice,  freedom,  prosperity  and 
peace and to shoulder its responsibility to address the 
world’s ongoing challenges. Those challenges test the 
international  Organization’s  credibility,  efficiency, 
status,  and  role  in  ensuring  social  freedom,  political 
stability and economic independence for all peoples of 
the world, free from hegemony, polarization, fear and 
double standards.
In the light of the major developments and changes 
that  have  occurred  since  the  Second  World  War,  it 
has  become  necessary  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
General  Assembly  as  a  universal  organ.  That  should 
preclude  the  Security  Council  privileges,  which  are 
currently  restricted  to  a  limited  number  of  countries 
that  control  crucial  decisions,  in  particular  those 
related  to  war  and  peace.  In  that  regard,  in  order  to 
ensure  greater  justice  and  democracy,  the  structure, 
privileges  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council 
should  be  reconsidered.  The  new  global  political, 
economic  and  social  realities  should  be  taken  into 
account by extending the membership so as to enable 
smaller countries to have greater representation. That 
would fulfil the United Nations principles of equality 
and justice among peoples.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52349 (E)
*1252349*
A/67/PV.14
Our  meeting  today  takes  place  at  a  time  of  major 
global  developments  and  changes,  in  particular  for 
Arab  nations.  Political  reform  had  therefore  become 
inevitable in order to achieve democracy and to lay the 
foundations for freedom and respect for human rights. 
However,  those  legitimate  demands  can  be  attained 
solely  through  a  peaceful  transition  and  dialogue,  not 
violence  and  foreign  intervention,  which  will  lead 
only  to  more  chaos,  injustice  and  division,  increasing 
the  number  of  refugees  and  exacerbating  related 
humanitarian  consequences.  Therefore,  with  regard 
to  the  Syrian  crisis,  Lebanon  reaffirms  its  policy  of 
disassociation at the political and the security levels in 
order to maintain its stability and balance of powers and 
in order to avoid unnecessary repercussions and risks. 
refrained 
Lebanon  has  not 
from  providing 
humanitarian  support  to  the  displaced  Syrians  in 
Lebanon,  in  an  effort  to  alleviate  their  suffering. 
However,  Lebanon  alone  cannot  deal  with 
the 
increasing  number  of  displaced  Syrians  and  their 
humanitarian  needs. We  have provided  assistance, but 
the number of displaced persons has risen and exceeded 
our  capacities.  We  can  no  longer  absorb  them  on  our 
own.  More  assistance  by  relevant  international  bodies 
is needed to help us in that regard. 
The  security  repercussions  of  the  Syrian  crisis 
threaten  civic  peace  and  stability  at  the  local  level 
and  in  the  Middle  East.  The  international  community 
must  make  greater  efforts  to  reach  a  political  solution 
between the parties in Syria, in order to put an end to 
the violence that is claiming hundreds of innocent lives 
every day.
As  we  support  the  freedom  and  legitimate  rights 
of all people, we need to raise a crucial issue, namely, 
the  right  of  the  fraternal  Palestinian  people  to  return 
to  their  homeland  and  to  establish  an  independent 
Palestinian  State,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  The 
recognition of the Palestinian State and its acceptance 
as a full Member of this international Organization and 
its  affiliated  agencies  should  pave  the  way  for  a  just 
political solution to the Palestinian question and correct 
the ongoing historical injustice that has been inf licted 
on the Palestinian people since 1948.
Lebanon  is  committed  to  maintaining  stability 
and  security  in  southern  Lebanon,  and  we  reaffirm 
our  commitment  to  Security  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006).  However,  the  continuous  Israeli  violations  of 
Lebanese sovereignty by air, land and sea — in excess 
of  9,000  violations  since  2006  —  are  limiting  the 
freedom of action of the United Nations Interim Force 
in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL)  and  threatening  the  security 
of  its  members,  once  again  violating  international 
resolutions, specifically resolution 1701 (2006). 
We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
pressure  Israel  to  respect  international  resolutions 
and  international  law,  to  immediately  withdraw  from 
occupied North Ghajar, the Shaba’a farmlands and the 
Kfar Shouba hills, and to bring to an end the continuous 
threats 
security.  Lebanon  values 
UNIFIL’s role and its sacrifices, as well as its ongoing 
cooperation and coordination with the Lebanese army, 
and  we  express  our  gratitude  to  all  participating  and 
supporting countries.
to  Lebanon’s 
Lebanon  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of 
resolution 66/192, of 22 December 2011, regarding the 
oil  slick  on  its  shores  during  the  Israeli  2006  war  on 
Lebanon, and demands compensation, in application of 
paragraph 4 of that resolution.
We  reiterate  our  commitment 
to  defend  our 
exclusive  economic  area  and  our  maritime  borders  as 
set  by  international  law  and  in  accordance  with  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
which  affirms  our  right  to  exploit  our  wealth  and 
natural resources. 
Lebanon,  a  vital  crossroads  of  religions,  beliefs, 
cultures  and  civilizations,  is  a  country  committed 
to  divine  and  human  values.  We  are  fully  aware  that 
diversity  and  difference  are  an  integral  part  of  life  in 
our  region  and  throughout  the  world.  We  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  freedom  of  expression,  tolerance  and 
dialogue.  In  the  words  of  Pope  John  Paul  II,  Lebanon 
is  not  merely  a  country,  it  is  a  message.  We  consider 
prejudice  towards  all  religions  and  prophets  a  clear 
aggression  against  the  dignity,  values  and  feelings  of 
all believers, for it can only instigate conf lict, violence 
and reactions that we condemn and could never accept. 
No one could accept them. 
the 
We 
therefore  emphasize 
importance  and 
necessity  of  dialogue  between  civilizations  and 
cultures. Building trust and fostering rules of conduct 
binding on all are essential to end once and for all the 
desecration  of  religious  symbols,  as  well  as  to  ensure 
respect for people’s feelings and their freedom of belief. 
Such  efforts  can  put  an  end  to  the  extreme  reactions 
and condemnable practices that we have unfortunately 
witnessed  recently  in  certain  countries.  Respect  for 
2 
12-52349
religion does not restrict freedom of expression; rather, 
it is a rational practice of such freedom. 
In  that  spirit,  Lebanon  has  launched  a  national 
dialogue  among  the  different  Lebanese  constituencies 
based  on  established  national  principles  that  were 
agreed on and developed under the Baabda Declaration 
(A/66/849, annex), which was welcomed by the Security 
Council.  Dialogue  is  considered  the  best  means  for 
ensuring stability in Lebanon.
Lebanon  is  committed  to  peace  and  strives  for  its 
achievement, especially in the Middle East, a region we 
would like to be an oasis of peace, free of weapons of 
mass  destruction.  In  that  regard,  we  should  remember 
that Israel is the only country in the region to possess 
nuclear  weapons  and  that  it  continues  to  refuse  to 
ratify  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons, a position that constitutes an ongoing threat 
to  peace  and  security  in  the  region  and  the  world  at 
large.
We  would  like  to  emphasize  once  more  the  need 
for a peaceful and diplomatic resolution of the Iranian 
nuclear  issue,  while  stressing  countries’  right  to  use 
nuclear  power  for  peaceful  purposes  and  avoiding 
double  standards  and  selectivity,  a  problem  that  is 
faced by many regions in the world and by our region 
in  particular.  We  also  welcome  ongoing  international 
efforts to combat terrorism, the scourge of our time. 
The  peace  we  strive  for  is  founded  on  what  is 
right,  not  a  fait  accompli  peace.  The  justice  we  strive 
for,  especially  in  our  region,  is  far  removed  from  the 
selectivity and double standards that are, unfortunately, 
the  case  globally,  especially  in  the  Middle  East.  Our 
region  is  still  suffering  from  the  consequences  of  the 
establishment of the State of Israel, in 1948, and from 
its ongoing occupation of Arab territories in complete 
disregard  for  international  law  and  United  Nations 
resolutions. 
Peace,  freedom  and  justice  are  the  pillars  for 
attaining  both  security  and  stability.  They  will  pave 
the  way  to  the  eradication  of  oppression,  extremism, 
hegemony and terrorism in our world. Stability cannot 
exist  without  a  Palestinian  spring,  and  a  Palestinian 
spring can occur only through the full implementation 
of the Palestinians’ right to self-determination on their 
land.
The  Arab  world  is  witnessing  one  of  the  most 
critical periods of its modern history. We have reached 
A/67/PV.14
a  crossroads  where  societies  must  make  choices  that 
will translate their ambitions into reality. We therefore 
request  the  international  community  to  draw  up  a 
serious  economic,  cultural  and  development  road 
map  to  assist  those  countries  in  that  newly  reached 
breakthrough. Our young Arab societies are in need of 
enlightenment  and  development  that  can  be  achieved 
only by providing education and employment to put an 
end to ignorance and improve our living standards. That 
will also certainly contribute to fighting extremism.
We  therefore  suggest  that  countries  step  forward 
with  their  technical  expertise  while  others  offer 
financial  assistance  to  draft  a  plan  that  could  be 
implemented through the framework of a new institution 
to  assist  young  men  and  women  working  in  public 
administration to promote good governance, efficiency 
and  productivity  in  governmental  agencies.  From 
that  perspective,  I  propose  to  establish  an  institution 
in  Beirut  that  will  soon  be  able  to  offer  an  integrated 
programme on good governance. 
As the Middle East is witnessing the most tumultous 
period  of  its  history,  we  call  on  the  international 
community  to  perceive  Lebanon  as  the  beacon  of 
hope  and  message  of  freedom  and  pluralism  that  it  is. 
Lebanon is not merely a small nation in need of shelter 
in a stormy region, and we are not asking for protection 
to  ensure  our  own  survival.  We  are,  rather,  calling  on 
the Assembly to see us in the light of the role that we 
have  repeatedly  played.  Despite  all  the  difficulties  we 
are facing, our country, which is small geographically 
but large in its global presence, has proved itself to be 
the  epitome  of  a  democratic,  tolerant  and  pluralistic 
country among its neighbours.
It 
is 
therefore 
the 
the  duty  of 
international 
community to protect Lebanon, now and in the future, 
from the turbulence of the region and to help us so that 
we  may  thrive,  f lourish  and  shine  our  rays  all  over 
the  Middle  East.  Only  then  will  the  United  Nations 
provide  our  unstable  region  with  a  genuine  source  of 
inspiration,  a  viable,  vibrant  nation,  an  example  and 
model  of  civil  and  religious  liberties,  social  diversity 
and political freedom.
I call on all those here not to perceive Lebanon as a 
responsibility but as an opportunity, an opportunity to 
provide the safest and fastest path to all that the Middle 
East  can  be  —  democratic,  peaceful  and  prosperous. 
Let  us  work  to  protect  Lebanon  from  harm  so  we  can 
12-52349
3
A/67/PV.14
maintain  peace  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  world  as  a 
whole.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Najib  Mikati,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Lebanese  Republic,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  warmly 
congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and I 
thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his excellent 
leadership of the Assembly during the previous session. 
I  also  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
efforts on behalf of the United Nations in the past year.
Our  new  world  is  experiencing  popular  uprisings, 
intra-State  conf licts,  climate  change  disasters,  global 
financial  crises,  food  and  energy  insecurity,  human 
rights  violations,  terrorism  and  so  forth.  These  and 
other  experiences  call  for  collective  efforts  towards 
peaceful  resolution  at  the  United  Nations.  I  therefore 
commend  the  theme  for  this  year’s  deliberations, 
namely,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”.
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  role  of 
my father, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the 
Father  of  the  Nation,  who  from  this  rostrum  38  years 
ago  espoused  the  principles  of  friendship  towards 
all  and  malice  towards  none,  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes,  the  renunciation  of  the  use  of  force  in 
international relations, and contributing to global peace 
and security. In essence, his policy at home and abroad 
was  based  on  justice  and  peace.  At  home,  during  my 
last  tenure  as  Prime  Minister,  in  1997,  those  policy 
guidelines inspired me to settle a 20-year conf lict that 
had cost more than 20,000 lives, through the signing of 
the  Chittagong  Hill  Tracts  Peace  Accord.  In  February 
2009, during my current tenure, I was able to peacefully 
settle  the  volatile  mutiny  of  our  border  guards,  thus 
averting a dangerous crisis.
We have also put increased emphasis on improving 
external  relations.  I  was  able  to  resolve  a  25-year-old 
issue  with  India  on  sharing  the  water  of  the  River 
Ganges with the signing in 1996 of the 30-year Ganges 
Water  Sharing  Treaty.  Last  year  the  2011  Protocol  to 
our  1974  Land  Boundary  Agreement  settled  a  border 
demarcation  issue  that  had  gone  unresolved  for  64 
years.  We  also  addressed  mutual  concerns  about  a 
dam  proposed  by  India  across  a  common  river.  With 
our other neighbour, Myanmar, we reached a peaceful 
settlement  of  a  41-year  maritime  boundary  dispute 
through  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea.
Our national and international commitment to peace 
has also been demonstrated by our position among the 
top contributors to United Nations peacekeeping and as a 
founding member of the Peacebuilding Commission. As 
the current Chair of the Commission, on 25 September 
we  held  an  event  entitled  “Peacebuilding:  the  way 
forward  towards  sustainable  peace  and  security”,  in 
which  many  here  participated.  As  a  member  of  the 
Human Rights Council and of the Economic and Social 
Council, we promote justice, peace, democracy, gender 
equality,  secularism,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  rights  of 
minorities and vulnerable groups. As a member of the 
executive  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the 
United  Nations  Office  for  Partnerships,  UNESCO, 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  International  Maritime  Organization  and 
the Universal Postal Union, we advocate setting global 
norms and standards.
In  my  four  decades  in  politics  for  the  welfare  of 
the  people,  I  have  learned  that  peace  prevails  when 
justice  prevails,  both  within  States  and  in  relations 
between  States.  Only  justice  can  ensure  peace,  which 
is  so  vital  for  development,  and  justice  is  possible 
only  through  democracy,  which  empowers  people. 
The alternative — the absence of democracy — means 
social  injustice,  poverty,  inequality,  deprivation  and 
4 
12-52349
marginalization,  which  encourage  extremism  and 
terrorism.  We  are  therefore  strengthening  democracy 
and  justice  by  empowering  people  by  eradicating 
poverty,  hunger, 
inequality  and  deprivation  and 
by  establishing  social  safety  nets,  creating  jobs, 
promoting inclusiveness, sustained growth and human 
development, and by countering terrorism.
The  principles  to  which  I  have  just  referred 
also  encouraged  me  to  present  a  model  for  people’s 
empowerment and development at the sixty-sixth session 
(see A/66/PV.22). The model encompasses six mutually 
reinforcing peace multipliers: first, eradicating poverty 
and  hunger;  secondly,  reducing  inequality;  thirdly, 
mitigating  deprivation;  fourthly,  including  excluded 
persons;  fifthly,  accelerating  human  development; 
and  sixthly,  eliminating  terrorism.  That  model  was 
endorsed by the Assembly in resolution 66/224, adopted 
by  consensus  last  year.  In  Dhaka,  on  5  and  6  August 
2012,  we  held  an  international  conference  to  discuss 
the model, and the 62 participating countries supported 
its  consideration  at  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly. I highly appreciate their support. I 
also seek the Assembly’s support for disseminating the 
model.
In  our  efforts  to  achieve  people’s  empowerment, 
parliamentary  standing  committees  were  established 
during  the  first  session  of  the  Parliament  that  was 
constituted  immediately  after  the  general  elections  of 
2008.  There  are  50  such  committees,  and  many  are 
chaired by members of Parliament from the opposition 
bench. We also introduced the Prime Minister’s question 
time and strengthened commissions on anti-corruption, 
human  rights  and 
information.  We  ensured  an 
independent, proactive judiciary, strengthened the rule 
of  law  and  established  human  rights,  accountability, 
secularism  and  rights  of  minorities.  We  proceeded 
with  regional  multimodal  connectivity  to  empower 
all people. We modernized education in madrasas. We 
entrenched  the  election  commission  and  democratic 
institutions for holding 5,182 elections in a completely 
free  and  credible  atmosphere.  We  freed  and  expanded 
the media, with 24 private television channels, 7 news 
agencies, 11 FM and 14 community radio stations, 320 
daily newspapers and 151 periodicals.
Since justice is the basis for empowering people for 
peace  and  development,  women  should  have  an  equal 
role.  To  expedite  the  process  of  their  empowerment, 
girls are provided free education up to higher secondary 
school under our new education policy. Women are also 
A/67/PV.14
encouraged  to  be  active  in  our  national  life.  Women’s 
leadership  has  been  developed  from  the  grass-roots 
level to the national level. Their participation in politics 
has been increased since the general elections in 2008. 
So  far,  12,838  women  have  been  elected  to  local 
Government bodies, and 69 women are members of the 
Parliament, constituting 20 per cent of the total number 
of members of Parliament. Besides my being the Prime 
Minister and Leader of the House, other women include 
the  Opposition  Leader,  the  Deputy  Leader  of  the 
House, five Cabinet ministers and a Whip. Of general 
Government posts, 30 per cent are reserved for women, 
some  of  whom  serve  in  very  senior  positions  in  the 
judicial,  administrative  and  diplomatic  fields,  as  well 
as  in  the  armed  and  law  enforcement  services  and  as 
United Nations peacekeepers.
  Our  efforts  to  empower  people  in  my  present 
tenure have so far helped in reducing poverty by 10 per 
cent, attaining a gross domestic product growth rate of 
6.5 per cent and enhancing per capita income by 34.6 per 
cent.  They  have  helped  to  reduce  overall  inf lation 
from double digits to 4.97 per cent, with food inf lation 
declining from 13 per cent in 2008 to 2.25 per cent at 
present. Our efforts have assisted in the employment of 
7.5 million in the private sector and half a million in the 
public sector. Exports have increased annually by 19 per 
cent over 2009 figures to $24.3 billion in 2011-2012. We 
have  helped  to  arrange  overseas  jobs  for  1.87  million 
nationals,  increasing  annual  inward  remittances  by 
10  per  cent  over  2009  to  $12  billion  in  2011-2012. 
We  have  maintained  macroeconomic  stability.  We 
have  expanded 
information  and  communications 
technology  facilities  among  the  lowest  tier  of  local 
Government to ensure the availability of e-services to 
rural people. Nearly 100 per cent of school-age children 
are  enrolled  in  in  primary  schools.  We  have  achieved 
gender parity in primary and secondary education and 
have  established  12,000  community  clinics  to  ensure 
nutrition  and  health  care  for  rural  people,  especially 
mothers and children. A climate change trust fund has 
been  set  up  to  implement  adaptation  and  mitigation 
programmes.  All  those  undertakings  have  helped  in 
achieving  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
3,  4  and  5,  on  gender  parity  and  infant  and  maternal 
mortality, ahead of 2015.
Our achievements have earned us global recognition 
through MDG, South-South and Food and Agriculture 
Organization  awards.  Importantly, 
the  Secretary-
General  has  acknowledged  those  achievements  by 
12-52349
5
A/67/PV.14
including me as a member of the Scaling Up Nutrition 
Lead Group and as a champion for the Education First 
initiative.  We  welcome  his  high-level  panel  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  which  should  consider 
coherence with the sustainable development goals and 
should  prioritize  poverty,  hunger,  nutrition,  global 
food  and  energy  security,  climate  change  and  global 
partnership for sustainable development.
I  hope  that  the  high-level  panel  will  also  consider 
formulating a position on the painful plight of autistic 
and  disadvantaged  children,  who  constitute  about 
1 per cent of the world’s population. At home, we have 
put  in  place  55  special-needs  schools  and  a  centre  for 
neurodevelopment and autism in children. In July 2011, 
with the collaboration of the World Health Organization 
and Autism Speaks, we launched a global autism public 
health  initiative.  At  the  current  Assembly  session  we 
will  submit  a  draft  resolution  on  the  autism  spectrum 
disorder,  which  I  hope  will  receive  the  Assembly’s 
support.
Our  efforts  are  hindered  by  unjust  developments 
resulting  from  climate  change,  such  as  increasing 
poverty,  property  loss,  human  displacement  and  the 
consequent terrorism. The inevitable sea-level rise will 
create  mass  movements  of  displaced  migrants.  A  new 
legal  regime  ensuring  social,  cultural  and  economic 
rehabilitation of climate migrants — which I called for 
at  the  Assembly’s  sixty-fourth  session  —  must  be  put 
in place. 
It  was  also  emphasized  at  the  Dhaka  meeting  in 
2011 of the Climate Vulnerable Forum that an alliance of 
countries most vulnerable to climate change and rising 
sea levels has to be forged. As the current Chair of the 
Forum, Bangladesh launched the second edition of the 
Climate Vulnerability Monitor yesterday in New York. 
I  also  reiterate  my  call  for  an  international  agreement 
limiting  greenhouse-gas  emissions  on  the  principle  of 
common  and  differentiated  responsibilities,  on  early 
operationalization of the Green Climate Fund for, inter 
alia, adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer.
Closely  linked  to  climate  change  is  global  food 
and  energy  security.  The  increase  of  food  and  energy 
prices  due  to  climate  change  can  be  very  disturbing 
indeed.  It  has  dangerous 
least 
developed  countries,  which  is  why  they  need  greater 
international  support  for  socioeconomic  security,  for 
duty-free  and  quota-free  access  of  their  products  to 
all  markets,  for  the  fulfilment  of  official  development 
implications  for 
assistance commitments, for an equal voice in Bretton 
Woods  institutions  and  other  international  financial 
institutions,  and  for  free  movement  of  labour  to  all 
countries.  In  fact,  we  should  immediately  implement 
Mode IV of the General Agreement on Trade in Services 
to benefit both sending and receiving countries.
We  should  also  ensure  documentation,  safe 
migration  and  the  protection  of  the  rights  of  migrant 
workers,  especially  women  and  children,  as  a  shared 
responsibility  of  sending  and  receiving  States  in  the 
World Trade Organization.
The  blatant  injustice  perpetrated  against,  and 
murder,  torture  and  humiliation  of  the  Palestinian 
people  by  Israel  marks  a  shameful  chapter  in  human 
history.  Deep  frustrations  at  the  injustice  in  Palestine 
and  in  other  places  also  fuel  terrorism.  It  is  vital  to 
resolve  the  Palestine  and  similar  burning  questions 
through  justice  and  the  establishment  of  democratic 
rights.
In Bangladesh, from 2001 to 2006, an environment of 
terrorism prevailed. Under the patronage of the previous 
BNP-Jamaat Government, such internationally banned 
terrorist  outfits  as  Jama’atul  Mujahideen  Bangladesh, 
Harkatul  Jihad,  Hizb  ut-Tahrir  and  Lashkar-e-Toiba, 
among  others,  carried  out  bomb  and  grenade  attacks 
with impunity, every other day, to eliminate the secular 
and  progressive  parties.  Prominent  instances  were  the 
bomb  attacks  on  four  cinemas  killing  19  people  on 
5  December  2002;  the  grenade  attack  on  the  British 
High  Commissioner  on  21  May  2004;  bomb  blasts  at 
500 places in 63 out of 64 districts within a span of half 
an hour on 17 August 2005; grenade and firearm attacks 
that  killed  former  Finance  Minister  and  Executive 
Director  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission 
for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  Mr.  S.A.M.S.  Kibria,  MP, 
Mr.  Ahsanullah  Master,  MP,  Mr.  Mumtazuddin,  MP, 
and two popular judges inside the court premises.
I was myself a target of a grenade attack at a public 
meeting on 21 August 2004, which left 24 people dead 
and  nearly  500  injured.  Somehow,  I  miraculously 
survived.  Another  heinous  kind  of  terrorism  that  we 
experienced in Bangladesh was the brutal assassination 
of my father and the Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu 
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and 18 members of our family 
on 15 August 1975 by some misguided army personnel 
seeking to usurp State power. At that time, I was abroad 
with  my  sister,  Sheikh  Rehana,  and  thus  escaped 
death.  In  view  of  our  nation’s  tragic  experiences  with 
6 
12-52349
A/67/PV.14
terrorism, my Government has adopted a firm policy of 
zero tolerance of terrorism and all forms of extremism.
upon  his  election  to  preside  over  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session.
I  conclude  by  joining  the  vast  majority  of  United 
Nations  Members  in  stressing  once  again  the  urgent 
need to reform the United Nations, the Bretton Woods 
Institutions and other international financial institutions. 
Their structures and decision making processes ref lect 
a  balance  of  power  that  is  60  years  old,  serving  the 
interests  of  a  privileged  few  and  ignoring  the  large 
majority.  The  new  millennium,  with  its  large  number 
of  independent  sovereign  States  and  globalization, 
has  ushered  in  a  new  world  order.  Today,  we  speak 
boldly of justice, equality, democracy, freedom, human 
rights, environment and the adverse impact of climate 
change, among other things. These are the priorities of 
our  time,  which  we  must  acknowledge  in  place  of  the 
bitter experiences of the past. The new world order of 
nations has to be based on justice, mutual respect and 
sovereign equality if we are to evolve towards the world 
of  peace  and  hope  that  we  wish  to  leave  to  our  future 
generations.
May Bangladesh live forever! Long live the United 
Nations!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Bangladesh for the statement she has just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Mr. Roman-Morey (Peru), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Address  by  Ms.  Yingluck  Shinawatra,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingom of Thailand.
Ms.  Yingluck  Shinawatra,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Yingluck Shinawatra, Prime Minister of Thailand, 
and inviting her to address the General Assembly. 
Ms.  Shinawatra  (Thailand):  On  behalf  of  the 
delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  allow  me  to 
congratulate  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
I would also like to convey our appreciation to the 
outgoing  President,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser, 
for his outstanding leadership of the General Assembly 
during the previous session.
We continue to live in challenging times. Much still 
needs to be done to restore stability and confidence in 
the global financial and economic system, and to find 
long-term  solutions  to  the  eurozone  crisis.  The  Arab 
Spring has taught us that it is very important to listen to 
the voice of the people. The risk of conf lict in various 
regions  around  the  globe  may  affect  our  efforts  to 
promote peace, prosperity and democracy.
We  have  also  seen  how  religious  insensitivity  and 
hate can lead to violence. In the light of this, we need 
to  promote  a  culture  of  tolerance,  mutual  respect  and 
understanding, both in and among societies. These are 
essential factors to prevent conf lict and promote lasting 
peace.
In our efforts to promote lasting peace and security, 
we  are  confronted  with  a  wide  range  of  threats,  both 
old  and  new.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  us  to  seek 
innovative solutions and new thinking. We need strong 
leadership,  political  will  and  good  global  governance. 
It  is  imperative  that  we  settle  international  disputes 
by  peaceful  means.  But  even  beyond  that,  we  need  to 
think in terms of preventive and preemptive actions to 
prevent  such  disputes  from  arising  in  the  first  place. 
Most important, we have to think in terms of promoting 
inclusive  and  comprehensive  peace  and  development, 
both  within  and  among  countries.  Peace,  security  and 
development are all interconnected.
Economic  development  must  go  hand  in  hand 
with  political  advancement.  Here,  I  would  like  to 
emphasize  three  points.  First,  an  inclusive  national 
development  strategy  is  vital.  During  this  period  of 
economic uncertainty, we must not consider economic 
growth  alone.  It  is  important  to  put  people  front  and 
centre  in  the  development  agenda.  Sustainable  growth 
and  development,  job  creation,  promoting  poverty 
reduction  and  equality  and  addressing  climate  change 
must go hand in hand. That is what every Government 
should  do  —  put  people  at  the  heart  of  the  country’s 
economic development strategy — because we believe 
that the greatest asset of any country is the people, and 
how much a country can excel depends on how much its 
people can fully realize their potential.
12-52349
7
A/67/PV.14
Secondly, an inclusive regional development is the 
way  forward  and  would  help  strengthen  the  fabric  of 
regional peace and security. Thailand strongly believes 
that we and our neighbours in the region have a shared 
objective. We have a shared interest in fostering common 
peace  and  prosperity.  We  need  to  therefore  strive  to 
prosper together because only by working together can 
we  create  a  much-needed  synergy  that  would  support 
our common development. That will also help limit the 
chance of conf lict.
In South-East Asia, that is the spirit that drives the 
10 States members of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) to establish an ASEAN Community 
by  the  year  2015.  As  ASEAN  moves  towards  greater 
integration,  great  efforts  are  being  made  to  close 
development  gaps  and  expand  connectivity  across 
South-East  Asia  and  beyond  to  the  wider  East  Asia 
and  South  Asia.  That  would  help  spread  development 
and growth more broadly across the continent. And as 
economic activities become more concentrated in East 
Asia, that closer integration and expanded connectivity, 
together with an expanding region-wide network of free 
trade agreements, will further strengthen the resilience 
of  East  Asia,  create  greater  opportunities  and  unleash 
the full potential of this promising region.
Thirdly,  an  inclusive  process  at  the  global  level 
is  crucial  as  the  international  community  considers 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  have  been  an  important 
tool  that  resulted  in  better  livelihoods  for  millions  of 
people.  With  2015  fast  approaching,  the  international 
community  should  mobilize  an  all-out  effort  to  make 
the final push in realizing those MDGs. 
At the same time, it is important to prepare beyond 
2015. The successes and failures of the implementation 
of  the  MDGs  should  be  taken  into  account  as  the 
international community starts to frame the post-2015 
development  agenda  or  the  sustainable  development 
goals.  The  process  towards  that  end  should  be  as 
inclusive  as  possible  to  ensure  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  will  enjoy  the  broadest  possible 
support and ownership of the international community. 
Thailand  will  play  an  active  and  constructive  role  in 
that  process  because  development  is  an  issue  close  to 
our heart.
In this age of globalization, the concept of absolute 
security  has  become  obsolete.  Peace  can  never  be 
achieved in isolation. We can only seek peace through 
common  security  and  stability.  We  must  work  closely 
with  our  friends  in  each  region  to  strengthen  their 
capacities  in  meeting  their  development  goals.  We 
believe that the peace and prosperity of our neighbours 
is  that  of  our  own.  That  is  particularly  relevant  in  the 
current  case  of  Myanmar  during  the  critical  period  of 
transition  towards  greater  democracy,  which  Thailand 
fully  supports.  We  must  all  work  together  as  partners 
to help Myanmar continue in its process of change. We 
will  all  benefit  from  that  economic  cooperation  and 
integration.
We live in a world of increasing interconnectivity, 
but our peoples continue to face insecurity from cross-
border  challenges.  In  this  age  of  globalization,  the 
concept of security must be people-centred. Therefore, 
transnational  challenges  —  from  people  smuggling  to 
human trafficking, from narcotics to pandemics, from 
natural disasters to illegal trade in arms and materials 
for  weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  must  rank  high 
on  our  national  agenda.  The  international  community 
should  redouble  its  collective  effort  to  act  forcefully 
against  transnational  crimes  that  exist  in  a  world  of 
increased interconnectivity.
One  of  the  worst  forms  of  human  indignity  is 
human  trafficking.  I  consider  that  inhumane  form  of 
exploitation to be a matter of national priority and am 
fully committed to eliminating it.. Whether it is human 
trafficking  or  other  transnational  crimes,  the  key  is 
to  ensure  that  the  rule  of  law  prevails  and  the  basic 
rights  of  peoples  are  guaranteed.  Vulnerable  groups, 
such  as  women,  children,  the  elderly  and  people  with 
disabilities, in particular deserve our attention.
Solutions  to  those  challenges  cannot  be  achieved 
by  Governments  alone.  We  need  to  work  with  all 
stakeholders,  especially  in  strengthening  international 
norms and standards. Through the United Nations, we 
need to promote the rule of law as a solid foundation to 
achieve peace, international security, human rights and 
sustainable development.
We  are  committed 
to  promoting  peace  and 
prosperity  within  countries  and  internationally,  but, 
ultimately, the process must begin at home. It can best 
be  accomplished  by  providing  space  for  all  within 
a  democratic  framework  and  promoting  national 
reconciliation. Above all else, we must think in terms of 
partnership and work together as responsible members 
of the international community.
8 
12-52349
Working  through  the  United  Nations,  we  need 
to  reach  out  to  people  who  have  been  denied  their 
legitimate rights and aspirations. It is in that spirit that 
the  Royal  Thai  Government  established  diplomatic 
relations with the State of Palestine on 1 August 2012, 
in  the  hope  that  both  Israel  and  Palestine  can  achieve 
true and lasting peace based on a two-State solution.
Elsewhere in the Middle East, the situation in Syria 
continues  to  worsen.  Thailand  is  deeply  concerned 
about  the  humanitarian  impact  of  violence  against 
civilians  and  strongly  condemns  such  violence.  We 
call  for  an  immediate  end  to  the  use  of  force  against 
civilians.  We  call  for  all  sides  to  engage  in  dialogue 
towards a political solution, which can be achieved only 
by the efforts of the Syrian people themselves.
In  the  quest  for  peace  and  security,  we  believe  it 
is  necessary  to  continually  look  beyond  our  borders. 
Thailand  wishes  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
peacekeeping  in  difficult  times  as  necessary.  From 
Timor-Leste to Haiti to Darfur and in the Gulf of Aden, 
Thailand’s peacekeeping operations also assist in local 
and community development, sharing our best practices 
in agriculture, health and water resource management.
In sum, Thailand has continued to engage with the 
international community across all three pillars of the 
United  Nations:  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human rights. The management of those interconnected 
issues will provide us with long-term solutions, not only 
for conf lict resolution via peaceful means, but also for 
ways to prevent conf licts from arising altogether.
I assure the Assembly that Thailand will continue 
to be a strong partner of the United Nations in helping 
to  address  those  shared  challenges  of  humankind. 
It  is  with  that  conviction  that  we  have  submitted  our 
candidature as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council for the term 2017-2018.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand for the statement 
she has just made.
Ms.  Yingluck  Shinawatra,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
A/67/PV.14
Address  by  Mr.  Gordon  Darcy  Lilo,  Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands.
Mr. Gordon Darcy Lilo, Prime Minister of Solomon 
Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  great  pleasure 
in welcoming Mr. Gordon Darcy Lilo, Prime Minister 
of  Solomon  Islands,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Lilo (Solomon Islands): I wish to congratulate 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  also 
commend  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  of  Qatar,  for  his  fine  leadership  during  the 
last session. In addition, I thank the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless efforts in advancing 
security,  development  and  human  rights,  the  three 
pillars of the United Nations Charter.
Global  security  remains  a  serious  challenge 
today.  States  are  increasing  their  military  capabilities 
and  arms  sales  have  tripled  in  the  last  year  and  are 
reaching  record  levels.  Closer  to  home,  in  the  Asia-
Pacific  region,  new  Cold  War  lines  are  being  drawn 
and low-intensity territorial disputes are brewing. That 
situation provides the option of unilateral action, which 
undermines  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level. 
Those challenges now demand an effective multilateral 
institution  that  responds  meaningfully  in  real  time  to 
uphold the rule of law. In that regard, Solomon Islands 
welcomes this year’s theme on adjustment or settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means. It is our desire that States that find themselves 
in international disputes adhere to the rule of law and 
work towards ensuring global peace.
Solomon Islands emerged from an internal conf lict 
some  10  years  ago.  A  regional  peace  initiative  known 
as the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands 
(RAMSI) has helped restore law and order and created 
an  environment  for  nation-building  and  development. 
Our gratitude goes out to all our regional neighbours.
A national truth and reconciliation commission that 
was set up in 2009 to investigate the causes of the conf lict 
12-52349
9
A/67/PV.14
submitted  its  report  early  this  year.  The  Commission 
has  facilitated  the  national  reconciliation  and  healing 
process, and the Government has established a working 
group to carefully consider the recommendations in the 
report.
Solomon Islands commends the General Assembly 
for  convening  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of 
Law at the National and International Levels this week. 
The rule of law is fundamental in guiding the conduct 
of  actors  and  addressing  the  realities  within  national 
and international jurisdictions.
Since  regaining  peace  and  stability,  Solomon 
Islands  has  achieved  some  social  and  economic 
progress.  For  example,  economically,  the  country  has 
enjoyed  steady  growth  in  the  last  five  years.  External 
reserves continue to improve and, as of February 2012, 
they  stand  at  10  months  import  cover.  In  addition, 
Solomon  Islands  is  one  of  the  11  countries  identified 
by  the  World  Bank  in  2012  as  having  most  improved 
the ease of doing business in the country across several 
areas  of  regulation.  An  economic  core  working  group 
has also been established to coordinate donor assistance 
and  is  playing  an  important  role  in  public  finance 
reforms,  including  debt  management,  and  in  creating 
fiscal buffers that enable us to cushion external shocks.
In the health sector, I am pleased to report that we 
have  almost  eradicated  malaria  from  two  of  our  nine 
provinces. Infant mortality has significantly decreased 
from  80  to  35  per  1,000  live  births,  and  the  maternal 
mortality  rate  has  also  decreased  from  500  to  200 
deaths  per  100,000  live  births.  The  Government  and 
its development partners continue to fund medical and 
health  centres  to  deliver  the  services  needed  by  our 
people.
Major improvements in the law and order situation 
have  resulted  in  the  reduction  of  major  crimes  and 
created  a  safer  environment  in  the  country.  We  have 
also  successfully  hosted  a  number  of  international 
events, such as the Oceania football tournament of the 
International  Federation  of  Association  Football,  the 
Festival  of  Pacific  Arts  and  recently  the  visit  by  the 
Duke  and  Duchess  of  Cambridge.  We  have  regained 
our  image  of  the  country  known  as  the  happy  isles  in 
the Pacific.
As  part  of  our  efforts  to  address  governance 
issues,  Solomon  Islands  has  intensified  its  national 
consultations to determine the appropriate mechanisms 
to  improve  political  integrity  and  stability.  National 
consultations  have  been  conducted  to  obtain  feedback 
from  the  community  on  the  required  institutions  and 
processes. Strengthening governance is expensive and 
needs international partnership. I take this opportunity 
to  thank  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  for  its 
assistance towards our electoral reforms.
After  almost  10  years,  RAMSI  is  now  in  its 
transitional phase. The Government is working closely 
with the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands 
to  ensure  a  smooth  transition  as  the  responsibility  for 
security and development is placed back in the hands of 
the Government and community. My Government will 
engage  with  various  stakeholders,  including  United 
Nations bodies, to consolidate the gains that have been 
made so far and in building a resilient State.
to  strengthen 
Solomon  Islands  continues 
its 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations.  This  year  we 
opened  a  second  diplomatic  Permanent  Mission  in 
Geneva. We are also pleased to see that the World Health 
Organization office in Honiara has been upgraded from 
a liaison office to the level of resident representative. We 
request  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  to  follow  suit.  I  believe  a  stronger  United 
Nations  presence  at  the  country  level  will  further 
enhance  understanding  of  the  country’s  development 
priorities and challenges. The United Nations will only 
be  strengthened  with  a  secretariat  that  represents  the 
diversity of its membership.
Solomon 
Islands 
recognizes 
the  sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity of Fiji. 
We will continue to dialogue with Fiji and call on 
the region and the international community to support 
Fiji’s “Engaging with the Pacific” process and its road 
map  to  the  2014  general  elections.  We  welcome  Fiji’s 
commitment to hold its general elections in 2014.
Solomon Islands has also strengthened its mediating 
role  at  the  subregional  level  through  the  Melanesian 
Spearhead Group (MSG). The MSG is made up of Fiji, 
Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and the 
Front  de  libération  nationale  kanak  socialiste.  Within 
the  MSG  secretariat,  a  peacekeeping  unit  has  been 
established.  However,  Solomon  Islands  and  the  other 
MSG members believe that the United Nations remains 
the bedrock of international peace and security.
The  promotion  of  human  rights  is  fundamental 
to  creating  a  culture  of  peace  and  security.  Solomon 
Islands  welcomes 
intergovernmental 
process to strengthen the effectiveness of human rights 
the  ongoing 
10 
12-52349
A/67/PV.14
treaty institutions during this session. We recognize the 
universality of human rights and call for the elimination 
of  double  standards  and  the  politicization  of  human 
rights violations.
the country. We have done this by unlocking domestic 
and  regional  resources  through  the  establishment  of  a 
debt strategy in partnership with the private sector and 
the Asian Development Bank.
On  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  I  believe 
the  United  Nations  is  uniquely  placed  to  provide  a 
comprehensive solution to the region’s complex issues, 
including the current situation in Syria. It is a region that 
deserves  freedom,  democracy  and  long-term  security. 
Solomon  Islands  continues  to  support  the  work  of  the 
Quartet and the good offices of the Secretary-General 
in defusing tensions and advancing political discussion 
on a two-State solution for Israel and Palestine.
There is no justification for the killing of innocent 
civilians,  wherever  it  may  occur.  We  therefore  join 
the  international  community  in  expressing  our  deep 
concern about the sad events in Benghazi. 
With respect to Non-Self-Governing Territories in 
the Pacific, Solomon Islands supports New Caledonia’s 
aspirations  to  self-determination.  I  wish  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that,  last  month,  members  of  the  MSG 
undertook  a  second  ministerial  visit  to  the  territory 
to  monitor  progress  under  the  Noumea  Accord.  We 
encourage  all  efforts  to  enable  the  Kanaks  to  assume 
leadership in determining their future. Solomon Islands 
also  joins  its  regional  neighbours  in  supporting  the 
reinscription of French Polynesia in the list of countries 
to  be  decolonized.  We  also  support  other  peoples 
within  the  Asia-Pacific  region  that  aspire  for  self-
determination and independence.
 I welcome the work done by the General Assembly 
on  strengthening  the  smooth  transition  process  for 
countries graduating from the group of least developed 
countries.  In  working  towards  graduating  from  the 
group, we are embarking on a number of development 
initiatives.  Under  the  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action, 
Solomon  Islands  is  pursuing  three  high-value  national 
investments.  First,  with  support  from  New  Zealand,  a 
second international airport is being constructed in the 
western  part  of  our  country.  Secondly,  the  submarine 
fibre-optic  cable  project  is  expected  to  go  on  line  by 
2014.  Thirdly,  Solomon  Islands  is  in  the  process  of 
establishing  two  tertiary  universities,  the  Solomon 
Islands National University and the University of South 
Pacific Solomon Islands Campus. 
Those  national  projects  place  Solomon  Islands  on 
a  path  to  transforming  its  economy  and  ensuring  that 
inclusive and equitable economic growth takes root in 
Furthermore,  we  are  taking  steps  to  maximize 
returns  from  our  natural  resources.  As  a  party  to  the 
Nauru Agreement, we have closed off pockets of high 
seas  between  our  exclusive  economic  zones  in  a  bid 
to  protect  and  manage  fish  stocks.  In  that  regard,  we 
have  adopted  the  Vessel  Day  Scheme  to  guarantee  an 
equitable share of benefits. We hold the position that the 
Scheme must be embodied in bilateral and multilateral 
fisheries  agreements.  We  call  on  all  distant-water 
fishing nations to respect that principled position.
In the mining sector, we are now a member of the 
Extractive  Industries  Transparency  Initiative,  and  we 
continue to develop policy and translate it into local laws 
and  regulations.  Mining  presents  a  major  opportunity 
to  broaden  our  economic  base.  In  that  regard,  we  will 
be  granting  mining  leases  to  a  major  nickel-mining 
company before the end of the year. It is estimated that 
the company will produce around 69,000 tons per year 
and generate significant job opportunities.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20),  we  charted  a  new  course  to 
develop  an  improved  paradigm  for  advancing  and 
measuring the three pillars of sustainable development. 
The  full  and  timely  implementation  of  the  Rio+20 
outcome  (resolution  66/288,  annex)  is  crucial.  As  we 
approach 2015, we must accelerate efforts to achieve the 
Millennium Development Goal targets in the remaining 
three years.
for 
Solomon  Islands  is  implementing  its  national 
development  strategy 
the  period  2011-2020. 
We  call  on  our  development  partners  to  align  their 
assistance with the priorities that are contained in our 
national  development  strategy.  The  proposed  post-
2015  development  agenda  must  take  into  account  any 
shortcomings in the implementation of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  and  the  sustainable  development 
goals  must  be  viable  economically,  community-based 
and  time-bound.  We  look  forward  to  working  with 
the  experts  who  will  be  establishing  the  framework. 
Solomon Islands is pleased to be one of the 50 countries 
that  UNDP  will  consult  in  developing  the  post-2015 
global  development  agenda.  We  request  that  this 
consultation process also mainstream issues of concern 
to  small  island  developing  States  into  the  agenda 
12-52349
11
A/67/PV.14
of  the  2014  Global  Conference  on  the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States.
I join my colleagues in the Alliance of Small Island 
States  in  reiterating  that  climate  change  is  an  urgent 
and irreversible threat to humanity. Solomon Islands is 
deeply troubled by the current low ambition level of the 
pledges by developed countries. There is a discrepancy 
between what has been pledged and what is necessary to 
stabilize temperature decrease. That means mitigation 
must be prioritized at the eighteenth ordinary meeting 
of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention 
on  Biological  Diversity  in  Doha  and  greenhouse-gas 
emission  levels  meaningfully  decreased.  We  need  to 
have certainty that we are working towards a temperature 
increase  of  no  more  than  1.5  degrees  Celsius,  and  not 
3 to 5 degrees Celsius, in order to ensure the survival, 
viability  and  sustainable  development  of  small  island 
developing States and least developed countries. 
We  deeply  regret  that  some  countries  have  opted 
out  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  some  have  refused  to  take 
a  second  commitment  and  others  have  remained 
undecided on taking a second commitment.
However,  at  the  national  level  I  am  pleased  to 
announce  that,  in  June,  Solomon  Islands  launched  its 
national  climate  change  policy,  which  mainstreams 
climate change into all sectors of the country. Solomon 
Islands  is  a  country  with  rich  biological  and  cultural 
diversity. It is a member of the Coral Triangle Initiative 
on coral reefs, fisheries and food security. This year, 22 
Pacific  Island  countries  and  territories  came  together 
in Solomon Islands to showcase their cultural diversity 
and heritage. The region has indigenous biological and 
cultural  diversity,  which  makes  it  an  indigenous  and 
biocultural hot spot. That hot spot remains fragile and 
exposed to threats and needs international support. We 
will be seeking ways and means of having that initiative 
featured on the global agenda.
The reform of the Security Council must keep pace 
with the changing global realities. We support the call 
to  make  the  Security  Council  more  representative, 
relevant  and  effective.  After  four  sessions,  we  are 
concerned about the slow progress of negotiations and 
hope to see progress during this session.
My  Government  recognizes  Taiwan’s  f lexible, 
moderate  and  rational  foreign  policy,  which  continues 
to  promote  friendly  cross-Strait  relations.  Solomon 
Islands  continues  to  support  Taiwan’s  meaningful 
participation  in  the  United  Nations  system,  including 
its  aspiration  to  be  a  member  of  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO)  and  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC). Although not a member of ICAO, Taiwan 
manages  more  than  1  million  f lights  and  40  million 
passengers per annum. Similarly, Taiwan is the twenty-
second-largest  emitter  of  greenhouse  gas,  but  it  is  not 
a  member  of  UNFCCC.  I  firmly  believe  that  it  is  our 
shared responsibility to engage Taiwan in our efforts to 
advance  sustainable  development  and  address  climate 
change.
With regard to Cuba, I thank the Government and 
people  of  Cuba  for  the  support  they  have  provided  to 
the  medical  students  of  Solomon  Islands.  We  join  the 
international  community  in  calling  for  the  immediate 
lifting of the United States economic and trade embargo 
against  Cuba.  Solomon  Islands  encourages  the  United 
States to respect the principle of good-neighbourliness.
Finally,  with  regard  to  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment of women, I would like to thank Member 
States for their confidence in electing Solomon Islands 
to the Executive Board of UN-Women. I also welcome 
the call by the Secretary-General to convene the World 
Conference on Women in 2015. Solomon Islands further 
acknowledges  the  $320  million  in  regional  assistance 
from  Australia  to  support  gender  programmes  for 
Pacific island countries. Women play a very important 
role  as  peacemakers  and  leaders  in  Solomon  Islands 
society.  Our  gender  challenge  has  grown  with  time. 
Today  we  have  national  gender  programmes  that 
support  empowerment.  We  look  forward  to  working 
closely with Australia and the other Board members in 
advancing the cause of women and girls.
the  President 
in  establishing  an 
Solomon  Islands  is  committed  to  working  closely 
with 
inclusive, 
transparent  and  effective  multilateral  system.  I  would 
also like to assure him of our support for our common 
endeavour to build a peaceful and secure world for our 
children and future generations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Gordon Darcy Lilo, Prime Minister of Solomon 
Islands, was escorted from the rostrum. 
12 
12-52349
Address  by  Mr.  Asylbek  Jeenbekov,  Speaker  of 
the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Speaker  of 
the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Asylbek Jeenbekov, Speaker of the Parliament 
of the Kyrgyz Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Asylbek  Jeenbekov,  Speaker  of  the  Parliament  of 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Jeenbekov  (Kyrgyzstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
First of all, let me congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  I  wish  him 
every success in carrying out his important functions. 
It  is  also  a  great  pleasure  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for 
his  successful,  fruitful  leadership  of  the  work  of  the 
Assembly’s previous session. 
It would be difficult to say that the overall situation 
in  the  world  has  improved.  We  have  not  yet  fully 
recovered from one of the most serious global economic 
crises  in  the  past  65  years.  Yes,  the  overall  economic 
situation is gradually normalizing. Proof of that is the 
improving forecasts for world economic growth by key 
international  organizations  for  this  year.  However,  we 
should point out that risks remain and that the recovery 
process is still very uncertain. 
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  world  has  not  become 
any  safer.  We  are  seeing  a  rise  in  confrontations  and 
tension  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  Global  climate 
change,  population  growth  against  the  background  of 
a  deteriorating  environment,  the  scarcity  of  natural 
resources  and  of  access  to  drinking  water,  and  many 
other  problems  are  in  the  aggregate  stoking  tensions 
and the potential for conf lict in areas of cooperation on 
the international arena. 
Traditional ways of life are changing fast under the 
impact  of  globalization  processes.  States  are  finding 
it  increasingly  hard  to  tackle  modern  challenges  by 
themselves  because  of  the  transborder  nature  of  those 
challenges.  Terrorism,  separatism,  extremism,  drugs, 
information  wars  —  these  are  a  kind  of  tumour  for 
humankind and cannot be eradicated at the local level 
alone. 
A/67/PV.14
Sadly,  there  are  forces  at  work  in  the  world  that 
wish  to  drag  humankind  to  the  brink  of  the  precipice, 
to  kindle  the  f lames  of  hostility  wherever  they  go. 
One  glaring  example  is  the  video  Innocence  of 
Muslims,  which  symbolically  appeared  on  the  eve  of 
the  General  Assembly  session.  Kyrgyzstan  condemns 
the provocative nature of its content. It is unacceptable 
to  insult  anyone’s  religious  sensibilities,  regardless  of 
their  faith.  Humanism,  tolerance  and  mutual  respect 
make  the  world  better  and  safer.  Therefore,  we  also 
reject  the  use  of  force  against  diplomats  —  envoys  of 
peace and a symbol of cooperation — of any country.
Humankind  is  developing  and  changing  fast. 
Regional,  and  even  local,  events  can  impact  on  global 
processes.  In  2011,  we  observed  with  sympathy  and 
solidarity the events in the Middle East and North Africa. 
The  situation  in  Syria  that  we  have  seen  this  year can 
only be a cause of serious concern for the international 
community. All attempts to resolve the military conf lict 
and restore stability to that county have, sadly, failed. 
With  regard  to  the  thousands  of  civilian  victims,  the 
Kyrgyz Republic strongly advocates a speedy end to the 
violence in that country, the opening of a broad national 
dialogue between the political forces and a continuation 
of political and socioeconomic reform and participation 
of all Syrian citizens. 
The  Afghan  factor  continues  to  be  a  source  of 
threat to international security. There are concerns that 
a  full,  swift  drawdown  of  coalition  forces  could  open 
the  way  for  destructive  forces  and  the  emergence  of 
various extremist and terrorist groups in neighbouring 
countries.  Every  stakeholder  in  the  world  can  make 
a  contribution  to  the  issue  of  security  by  reviving 
Afghanistan’s economy and developing trade, economic, 
cultural and humanitarian ties with the country, as well 
as its communication infrastructure. 
Since  2001  Kyrgyzstan  has  played  its  part  in  that 
process,  rendering  assistance  to  the  counter-terrorist 
coalition  in  Afghanistan  through  the  cargo  Transit 
Center  at  Manas  International  Airport.  It  is  clear  that 
the  counter-terrorist  coalition,  with  the  withdrawal 
of  the  military  contingent  from  Afghanistan,  must 
bring  its  mission  to  a  logical  conclusion  to  create  the 
foundation  of  a  national  administrative  system  for 
that country so that all branches of power can be fully 
functional throughout the territory of Afghanistan. 
We  must  do  our  utmost  for 
the  economic 
rehabilitation  of  Afghanistan  by  engaging  it  in  the 
12-52349
13
A/67/PV.14
development of regional cooperation and implementing 
joint  socioeconomic  projects  between  international 
organizations and financial institutions. In that regard, 
Kyrgyzstan  is  ready  to  expand  trade  and  economic 
ties  to  export  electricity  to  Afghanistan  as  part  of  the 
CASA-1000 project, with the support of donor countries 
and the international financial institutions.
The  peaceful  development  of  Afghanistan 
is 
impossible without eradicating the systemic, ubiquitous 
cultivation  of  opium  in  that  country.  For  many  years 
Afghanistan has been the biggest producer and exporter 
of drugs. The growing penetration of that deadly crop is 
harming the countries of Central Asia. Not only are they 
on  the  northern  transit  route  towards  the  countries  of 
Europe and Asia, they are also progressively becoming 
consumers. 
Drugs are the enemy of civilized humankind. Where 
there are drugs, there are international organized crime 
groups and transborder challenges. Easy money earned 
at the cost of people’s lives has no productive basis. It 
brings destruction and the degradation of human value. 
Drugs  also  spawn  corruption  and  erode  State  systems 
from  the  inside.  Criminal  proceeds  are  used  to  bribe 
law  enforcement  bodies  and  the  judiciary.  They  fund 
corrupt  politicians  who  seek  power.  The  international 
community  must  provide  technical,  economic  and 
other  support  to  Afghanistan’s  neighbours,  including 
the  Central  Asian  countries,  to  build  an  effective 
shield to neutralize and localize drug trafficking from 
Afghanistan.
We believe that the mission of the United Nations, 
as the single universal multilateral Organization, is to 
be  on  the  front  line  in  tackling  all  modern  challenges 
and issues.
We  should  recognize  that  the  global  prevention 
architecture,  the  international  and  regional  security 
system  of  today,  does  not  ref lect  the  requirements  of 
our  time.  It  is  unfortunate  that  despite  the  search  for 
universal methods for mediation and peaceful conf lict 
resolution,  the  international  community  still  has  not 
resolved those issues.
The need to reform the United Nations architecture 
and adapt it to the realities of the modern international 
situation  has  not  abated.  A  top  priority  is  the  reform 
of principal organs of the United Nations, namely, the 
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. 
We should point out that the tasks of those structures, 
in  the  light  of  the  current  international  situation, 
require  serious  transformation  and  integration  of 
fundamentally new approaches.
In  terms  of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
propose the expansion of the membership of the Security 
Council to make it more representative, transparent and 
democratic.  The  reform  should  be  based  on  principles 
of  universality,  efficiency  and  broad  geographic 
representation,  particularly  for  those  countries  that 
have not yet had the chance to take part in its work as 
non-permanent members.
At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  strengthen  the 
coordinating  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
as  a  global  governance  mechanism  on  issues  of 
sustainable  development,  food  security,  humanitarian 
assistance, environmental cooperation and achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by the 
2015 deadline. 
The  current  global  situation  dictates  the  need 
to  consolidate  the  efforts  of  all  countries  to  develop 
tangible  action  based  on  objective,  fair  ref lection  of 
their  interests  and  needs.  On  that  basis,  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic has submitted its candidature for the Economic 
and Social Council for the period 2013-2015. If elected 
by  Member  States  to  that  organ  with  such  enormous 
potential, the Kyrgyz Republic intends to play its part 
in tackling problems on the global agenda.
The 
problems 
of 
sustainable 
development 
and  global  climate  change  have  presented  serious 
challenges  in  recent  years,  and  the  attention  of 
the  international  community  must  not  slacken.  In 
supporting the global discussions on a green economy 
model  that  took  place  at  the  Rio+20  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development, Kyrgyzstan chose its future 
path towards long-term sustainable green development 
and  an  environment-minded  economy.  We  would  like 
to confirm our commitment to developing our economy 
through  complying  with  requirements  to  protect  our 
environment  and  with  a  safe  approach  to  national 
resources, which are a national asset.
At  Rio+20,  the  importance  of  development  issues 
concerning mountainous areas was acknowledged with 
regard  to  managing  global  natural  resources,  as  was 
the  need  for  support  for  the  sustainable  development 
of mountain regions in developing countries. It should 
be noted that despite the assistance of the international 
financial 
institutions,  developing  mountain  States 
continue  to  suffer  difficulties.  High  levels  of  poverty 
and  isolation,  increasing  transport  costs  and  large 
14 
12-52349
A/67/PV.14
foreign  debts  comprise  the  main  problems  facing 
mountain countries. In that situation, it will be difficult 
to achieve the MDGs and attain the status set out in the 
United Nations documents on sustainable development. 
In  that  respect,  I  wish  to  call  attention  to  the 
importance of the launching of international discussions 
on  the  question  of  exchanging  Kyrgyzstan’s  foreign 
debt  for  sustainable  development  projects.  We  call  on 
the United Nations and its entities to render support on 
that matter.
By  the  will  of  God,  we  gained  independence  21 
years  ago.  Previous  leaders  were  unable  to  cope  with 
the  task  of  building  a  truly  independent  Kyrgyzstan. 
They  could  not  build  an  effective,  transparent  State 
system for governing that would work for the benefit of 
the  people.  Most  of  the  important  issues  were  tackled 
behind  closed  doors,  without  informing  society.  For 
the  sake  of  personal  enrichment  and  gain,  some  State 
decisions were even taken to the detriment of national 
interests. 
The  former  Kyrgyz  leaders  declared  a  course  for 
democracy  that  in  fact  did  not  take  place.  The  former 
regimes  established  a  clan-like  system  of  governance 
that f louted the principles of a free society and usurped 
power.  They  not  only  attempted  to  hand  power  down 
to their children, but brought the people to their knees 
merely  for  the  sake  of  their  personal  enrichment.  The 
freedom-loving people of Kyrgyzstan therefore carried 
out  two  revolutions,  in  2005  and  2010,  in  response  to 
the unjust, tyrannical and authoritarian power.
The latest choice has proved a difficult one for our 
people, despite our commitment to democratic values, 
which is almost hard-wired in the Kyrgyz people, part 
of  their  very  heritage.  Over  100  glorious  sons  of  our 
country laid down their lives for democracy during the 
April revolution of 2010. Their memory lives on. Also, 
1,500 people were injured. 
Over the past two years, our country has begun to 
implement  new,  democratic  governance.  The  Kyrgyz 
people  have  chosen  a parliamentary, presidential  form 
of  governance.  We  believe  that  was  a  just  decision. 
According  to  impartial  observers,  our  country  has 
made significant progress during the past year in terms 
of building a democratic State. 
We  began  under  difficult  conditions.  In  the  years 
of  independence  in  Kyrgyzstan,  industry  virtually 
ground  to  a  halt.  No  new  jobs  were  created.  Labour 
migration  grew.  One  third  of  the  working  population 
was  forced  to  find  employment  abroad.  We  were  left 
with  ineffective  public  administration  institutions, 
low  per-capita  income,  a  reduced  budget,  rampant 
corruption and organized crime, as well as unhampered 
drug-trafficking  from  Afghanistan  to  the  north,  east 
and west. 
Currently,  we  are  waging  an  uncompromising 
struggle against the corruption that is wearing away the 
State system from within. Civil servants who are found 
to be involved in corruption are being prosecuted under 
the law. In modern Kyrgyzstan, there will be no caste 
of those whom the law does not touch.
The  battle  against  corruption  is  already  seeing 
tangible 
results.  Senior  State  officials  under 
investigation  have  been  arrested,  including  members 
of  Parliament,  ministers,  their  deputies  and  others. 
Leaders of organized crime groups are either in prison 
or on the run outside of the country.
We  are  determined  to  extradite  for  prosecution 
those  people  for  whom  international  warrants  have 
been issued. In the name of fairness, the former leaders 
of Kyrgyzstan, who have taken shelter in neighbouring 
countries  along  with  their  inner  circle,  must  be 
sanctioned in strict compliance with Kyrgyz legislation. 
Kyrgyzstan stresses that they are being prosecuted not 
for  politically  motivated  acts,  but  for  specific  crimes 
punishable by law. They gave the orders to open fire on 
peaceful civilians and to destroy innocent people. They 
pillaged their own people and the country’s budget and 
took enormous financial assets out of the country. They 
have used criminal gains to buy villas, land and other 
costly material goods. In such issues, punishment must 
be just and inevitable so as to deter future leaders from 
repeating such actions. 
Therefore,  we  still  hope  that  the  Byelorussian 
authorities, partners of ours in the Collective Security 
Treaty Organization and the Eurasian Economic Union 
and who have assumed responsibilities under the Minsk 
and Kishinev Conventions, will show their commitment 
to  their  international  legal  obligations  and  extradite 
the relatives and the retinue of the former President of 
Kyrgyzstan, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, who have been hiding 
in their territory and even have Byelorussian passports. 
The  United  Nations  needs  to  establish  clear  standards 
and  procedures  to  ensure  justice  at  the  international 
level,  and  especially  for  the  return  of  illegally  gained 
assets.
12-52349
15
A/67/PV.14
Kyrgyzstan is steadfastly building a parliamentary 
democracy,  a  direct  authority  that  represents  the 
people,  their  wishes  and  their  needs.  At  present,  there 
are  processes  in  place  that  are  gradually  bringing  our 
society to a healthy state. Today, Parliament is engaged in 
political processes. Gradually, polemics and arguments 
are  transitioning  from  street  democracy  to  a  civilized 
form for resolving any significant controversial issues 
within  the  walls  of  Parliament.  Under  the  national 
Constitution,  the  Kyrgyz  Parliament  is  the  highest 
representative  body,  carrying  out  the  functions  of 
legislative  authority  and  control.  The  Government  is 
fully accountable to the Parliament. 
A major test, and at the same time an indicator, is the 
fact that since the adoption of the new Constitution in 
2011, we have seen the peaceful launch of all institutions 
of authority in accordance with the letter of the law. The 
members of Parliament have been elected. At the end of 
2011 we saw, for the first time in Kyrgyzstan’s history, 
a  peaceful  transfer  of  power  from  the  President  to  the 
newly elected Head of State, Almazbek Atambayev. A 
functioning coalition Government is in place. 
We  are  reforming  the judicial  system,  which  must 
be  equitable  and  fully  independent.  Despite  strong 
opposition from certain quarters who are not interested 
in  seeing  the  successful  conclusion  of  that  issue, 
we  have,  in  the  space  of  two  years,  launched  a  new, 
transparent  mechanism  for  the  selection  of  judges.  In 
mid-September, the Parliament approved the 25 judges 
of  the  Supreme  Court.  The  selection  of  judges  to  the 
Constitutional Court and local courts is also under way. 
The  establishment  of  an  independent  judiciary 
is  extremely  important  for  us.  It  will  allow  us  to 
achieve  a  just  public  administration  in  which  every 
citizen  will  be  equal  before  the  law.  We  are  working 
effectively with the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights and other agencies on 
the legal system and on improving legislation to ensure 
everyone’s equality before the law. 
With  the  participation  of  the  Parliament,  the 
country  has  undertaken  planning  and  reforms  in  all 
spheres  of  the  State  system  —  in  the  justice  system, 
law enforcement, taxation, oversight and others. All of 
that requires stronger legislation. Kyrgyzstan is taking 
its  first  steps  in  the  new  format  of  a  parliamentary 
republic. Sustainable development depends on the level 
of governance, on the rule of law and on human rights. 
We believe in the bright future of our country and that 
very soon all our countrymen will be able to say with 
pride that they are the citizens of a strong, prosperous 
Kyrgyzstan. 
(spoke 
delegation) 
in  Kyrgyz; 
interpretation  provided  by 
the 
One  can  more  clearly  see  the  sanctity  of  our 
fatherland and our true values of independence from afar.
I would like to appeal to my countrymen from the 
highest  podium  in  the  world.  Twenty  years  ago,  God 
granted  us  the  independence  that  our  ancestors  had 
dreamed  of  for  centuries,  for  which  they  had  shed 
their blood and sacrificed their lives. The freedom that 
was  sent  down  to  our  people  as  a  blessing  should  be 
strengthened  without  division,  by  tireless  effort  and 
labour  united  in  harmony.  Regardless  of  provocation 
by two-faced forces, we need to continue to strengthen 
the  path  on  which  we  set  forth.  Let  us  build  a  strong, 
united beloved Kyrgyzstan. To reach a bright future we 
need  to  continue  to  move  forward.  Life  is  a  struggle 
between light and dark, good and bad. We need unity. 
We need work and welfare, not animosity and discord. 
May  the  Creator  bless  our  nation  as  it  moves  towards 
bright goals.
(spoke in Russian)
Unfortunately,  our  country  is  still  weak  and 
economically dependent. We are not free in the choice 
of  our  foreign  sources  of  energy,  but  that  problem  is 
gradually  being  tackled  with  the  assistance  of  our 
strategic  partners.  Kyrgyzstan  needs  the  help  of  the 
international  community  to  tackle  the  problem  of 
our  foreign  debt,  which  is  hampering  the  process  of 
economic  growth  of  the  State  and  the  implementation 
of fundamental reforms.
sixty-seventh 
session,  namely, 
We  fully  share  what  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  said  here  in  his  opening  statement  at  the 
Assembly’s 
that 
developing  States  need  support  (see  A/67/PV.1).  We 
believe that developing democracies in particular need 
support  from  countries  of  the  democratic  club  and 
from  economically  developed  States.  To  consolidate 
parliamentary  democracy,  Kyrgyzstan  vitally  needs 
the  support  of  our  principal  partners  for  the  complex 
reforms  undertaken  in  restructuring  or  in  writing  off 
of  Kyrgyzstan’s  State  debt.  I  wish  to  stress  that  we 
have a clear vision of how to conduct reforms and how 
to  achieve  development  of  the  State.  However,  in  the 
light of the high deficit, we need significant additional 
resources, which we will certainly return once we have 
16 
12-52349
A/67/PV.14
achieved development and prosperity in the country in 
the coming years. 
the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic for the statement 
he has just made.
We  are  open  to  mutually  beneficial,  trusting 
partnerships and cooperation with all States. Kyrgyzstan 
has great economic potential. We are an open country, 
willing  to  engage  in  mutual  dialogue.  We  have  great 
industrial  and  metallurgical  potential.  In  Kyrgyzstan 
you can find most of the elements on Mendeleev’s table 
of elements. 
Critically  important  for  many  energy  projects, 
we  have  a  highly  qualified  labour  force  and  cheap 
electricity. In the modern world, energy is the driver of 
progress. Kyrgyzstan has huge hydroelectric potential, 
which we have begun to exploit. Every year we develop 
around 14 billion kilowatts per hour of electricity, which 
is  not  enough  to  satisfy  the  hydro-energy  demand  of 
Kyrgyzstan, which is around 142.5 billion kilowatts per 
hour.
On 20 September, Kyrgyzstan and Russia concluded 
an  agreement  that  is  vital  for  the  entire  Central  Asian 
region  on  building  and  operationalizing  the  Kambar-
Ata and the Naryn Cascade power plants. Participation 
in  building  one  of  the  biggest  hydroelectric  projects 
in  Central  Asia  will  include  our  neighbours  in  the 
region  and  allow  Kyrgyzstan  not  only  to  increase 
the  development  of  cost-effective,  environmentally 
clean  electricity  but  also  to  preserve  the  water  in  the 
foothills  that  is  currently  supplying  our  neighbours 
during the growing season. The benefit of the effective 
implementation of such projects is clear. It will enhance 
our hydroelectric export potential and protect drinking 
water for our neighbours. We invite all investors to take 
part in building those projects.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  note  that  the 
international  community  is  undergoing  a  difficult 
period.  Political  and  social  upheavals  are  creating 
numerous obstacles on the path to human development. 
We are seeing a new era for the world order, combined 
with  new  historical  challenges  and  changes.  At  this 
critical  stage  the  Organization  must  continue  its  lofty 
mission  to  build  peace  and  to  achieve  sustainable 
development throughout the world. Kyrgyzstan, in the 
spirit  of  solidarity  and  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations,  is  prepared  to  play  its  part  in  tackling  the 
major challenges of this day.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Speaker of 
Mr. Asylbek Jeenbekov, Speaker of the Parliament 
of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum
Address  by  Mr.  Abdiweli  Mohamed  Ali,  Prime 
Minister of the Transitional Federal Government 
of the Somali Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Transitional Federal Government of the 
Somali Republic.
Mr.  Abdiweli  Mohamed  Ali,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Abdiweli  Mohamed  Ali,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Ali  (Somalia):  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to commend 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for 
the 
manner  in  which  he  guided  the  proceedings  of  the 
Assembly last year.
Just over two weeks ago, Somalia took a bold and 
decisive  step  away  from  decades  of  division,  disorder 
and  conf lict,  and  instead  towards  the  reconstitution 
of  a  more  representative,  more  democratic  Somali 
Republic, at peace with itself, with its neighbours and 
with  the  rest  of  the  world.  On  1  August  this  year,  a 
National Constituent Assembly adopted the new Somali 
Constitution  and  on  20  August  a  new  Parliament  was 
sworn  in,  which  elected  our  new  President,  Hassan 
Sheikh  Mohamud,  on  10  September.  In  the  coming 
weeks, the President will appoint a Prime Minister and 
a new cabinet will be duly established.
Let me take this opportunity to convey the sincere 
regrets of President Mohamud. He would have liked to 
be here himself to address the Assembly on this great 
occasion.  However,  the  tremendous  scale  and  urgency 
of  the  challenges  facing  him  as  leader  of  Somalia  and 
the demands of his new role did not permit him to travel 
here to New York to present his remarks in person. He 
12-52349
17
A/67/PV.14
asked  me  to  come  here  to  convey  his  warm  greetings 
and his vision for Somalia’s future.
For  more  than  two  decades  of  crisis,  the  Somali 
people have suffered and endured, but we have not done 
so alone. The United Nations has stood by us, providing 
humanitarian assistance to those of our people in need, 
helping  us  to  rebuild  from  the  ruins  of  war,  bringing 
us  time  and  again  to  the  negotiating  table  to  resolve 
our  differences  and  maintaining  the  dignity  of  the 
Somali  nation  by  keeping  our  f lag  f lying  throughout 
these  long,  dark  years.  As  we  emerge  from  the  long, 
dark  days,  I  wish  to  express  my  personal  thanks,  and 
those  of  the  Somali  people,  to  the  Secretary-General 
and his Special Representative, Augustine Mahiga, for 
their tireless support and crucial role in helping to open 
this new chapter in Somali history.
Somalia’s  progress  is  also  due  in  great  measure 
to  the  self less  courage  and  sacrifice  of  our  brothers 
and sisters in the African Union, including our closest 
neighbours,  whose  forces  have  fought  long  and  hard, 
with  so  many  laying  down  their  lives  in  the  battle  to 
give  our  children  a  better  future.  With  the  support  of 
the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  (AMISOM) 
and  other  partners,  our  armed  forces  are  becoming 
increasingly experienced and capable, but we will need 
AMISOM’s steadfast presence and mentoring for some 
time  to  come,  and  we  call  upon  our  brothers  in  the 
African Union to renew their commitment as we move 
forward to assume our own responsibilities in full. We 
thank  our  international  partners  who  are  diligently 
supporting  AMISOM,  especially  the  European  Union 
and the United States, among others. 
The  members  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  and 
the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  have  also 
extended  the  hand  of  friendship  to  the  Somali  people 
during these difficult times. We are especially grateful 
to the Government and people of Turkey for their faith, 
courage and leadership in ending our long isolation and 
building  bridges  between  Somalia  and  the  rest  of  the 
world.
But now, with all these partners standing by us we 
must increasingly learn to travel our own path with our 
own  energies,  developing  the  ability  to  stand  on  our 
own feet and step free from reliance on our kind friends. 
Already, the Somali diaspora from around the world are 
returning to the country with investment and skills that 
will  build  the  future  Somalia. We  can  also  learn  from 
how  peace  and  growing  prosperity  have  developed  in 
other parts of the country. We must build on the return 
of normality in Mogadishu, and elsewhere in Somalia, 
and on the growing public confidence in the future. It 
is  the  Somali  people  in  the  villages  and  the  nomadic 
pastoralists, with their resilience, drive and dynamism, 
who  are  best  placed  to  lend  real  stability  to  Somalia’s 
future.
The end of Somalia’s transition was brought about 
by  the  tremendous  joint  efforts  of  the  Transitional 
Federal Government, Somali regional administrations, 
civil  society  and  our  traditional  elders.  Against  all 
odds, within one year Somalis were able to adopt a new 
provisional  Constitution,  create  a  new  Parliament  and 
elect a new President, heralding the beginning of a new 
era. This one-year experience has shown several things. 
When  we  put  our  minds  to  it,  we  Somalis  are  capable 
of  overcoming  tremendous  obstacles  and  delivering 
on  expectations.  It  has  shown  that  we  can  effect  our 
political  transitions  within  our  own  country.  It  has 
shown that Somalis are indeed ready for a new chapter 
and  are  calling  for  a  permanent  Government  that  can 
build on the foundations of this remarkable year.
Somalia’s  transition  has  officially  ended,  but 
the  work  of  rebuilding  our  nation  continues.  The 
new  administration  has  four  short  years  to  translate 
agreements and objectives made on paper into concrete, 
tangible progress for our people, and to place Somalia 
firmly  on  an  irreversible  path  to  enduring  peace  and 
growing prosperity.
The  most  urgent  challenge  is  to  restore  peace 
and  security  throughout  Somali  territory.  Our  forces, 
together  with  our  African  Union  allies,  are  making 
great  progress  in  that  regard.  But  a  stable  peace 
cannot  be  achieved  through  military  means  alone. We 
must  practise  the  politics  of  inclusion,  establishing 
a  credible,  representative, 
inclusive  and  capable 
Government  —  a  Government  by  the  people,  for  the 
people,  not  a  Government  of  the  few,  serving  the 
interests of the few. Initially, that Government must be 
about delivering real governance and connections with 
the  people.  It  must  be  about  the  process  of  building 
local  representation,  addressing  community  justice 
and  seeking  to  build  basic  services,  rather  than  about 
distant  institutions  of  Government  from  Mogadishu, 
or  even  provincial  centres.  Power  and  responsibility 
must be devolved as close to the people as possible, in 
accordance with the principles of federalism. It will be 
important  to  recognize  the  existence  of  other  Somali 
authorities,  as  well  as  de  facto  political  and  military 
18 
12-52349
forces across the country, with which we will work to 
establish a vibrant, prosperous and stable representative 
Government  democracy,  firmly  adhering 
to  and 
grounded in Somali and Islamic values.
We will also require a fair and independent judiciary, 
one resistant to executive interference, and one that will 
meet the needs and earn the trust of ordinary citizens, 
while  bringing  an  end  to  the  culture  of  impunity  that 
has gripped our nation for the past two decades.
We have repeatedly extended an olive branch to the 
Government’s adversaries, and, although this has been 
repeatedly  rejected,  our  new  President  will  continue 
to reach out and offer peace. Al-Shabaab is a complex 
and heterogeneous movement. Most of its members are 
ordinary  citizens  who  have  aligned  themselves  with 
Al-Shabaab out of fear or a sense of grievance. At the 
same  time  we  must  also  be  honest  with  ourselves  and 
admit that some of the members come from a nationalist, 
conservative  faction  of  our  fractured  country,  which 
has  been  disillusioned  and  damaged  by  decades  of 
conf lict, and they have sought refuge in an extreme and 
harsh source of justice and security. To them we must 
prove that there is a better way. To them we have always 
said and will continue to say, “Brothers and sisters, lay 
down your arms and let us talk”.
We Somalis have a saying — after every war comes 
peace. So let us remember that we have no choice as a 
nation but to live together. Let us settle our differences 
through  dialogue  and  compromise,  so  that  there  is  no 
longer any justification for any Somali to take up arms 
against another. To those few ideological extremists in 
Al-Shabaab’s  ranks  who  remain  committed  to  the  use 
of  terror  and  the  murder  of  innocents  to  achieve  their 
aims, we say, “There is no place in Somali society, nor 
in international society, for you and your violent creed. 
We will fight you until Somalia is once again a nation 
founded  on  the  peace,  tolerance  and  management  that 
constitute the true spirit of the great religion of Islam”.
As  we  focus  our  energies  on  these  immediate 
challenges,  we  must  nevertheless  keep  our  longer-
term  goals  clearly  in  view.  The  new  Government 
understands  clearly  that  its  purpose  is  not  to  entrench 
itself  indefinitely  in  power,  but  to  lay  the  foundation 
for  a  democratic  system  of  governance,  anchored  in 
Islamic  values  and  based  on  universal,  competitive 
elections, by August 2016.
The  new  Government  has  just  four  short  years 
within which to establish the states and regions of this 
A/67/PV.14
federation, and to do so in a way that unifies our people 
rather  than  dividing  them.  We  must  validate  the  new 
Constitution through consultation and referendum, and 
establish systems of governance that serve the interests 
of  the  Somali  people.  We  must  design  representative 
electoral systems that serve to heal the divisions of our 
society rather than to aggravate them.
As  we  move  away  from  transitional  Government 
into the era of permanent Government, we must establish 
a  new  compact  for  national  coexistence  in  which  the 
aspirations of all Somalis, not only some, are ref lected. 
We recognize that the bonds of love and solidarity that 
bound us together in 1960 have been heavily damaged 
and  sorely  tested.  The  talks  initiated  earlier  this  year 
between  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  and  the 
Somaliland  administration  have  begun  well,  and  we 
intend  to  continue  them.  We  will  not  use  military  or 
political  coercion  to  bring  out  an  artificial  unity;  we 
want  a  genuine  unity  that  results  from  negotiations, 
mutual respect and mutual agreement.
The  durability  of  our  stabilization  efforts  will 
depend  in  large  part  upon  our  ability  to  revive  and 
develop  the  Somali  economy.  Security  and  durable 
peace cannot exist without jobs and food, and therefore 
we must work hard to ensure that food is on the table of 
the  average  Somali  family,  to  create  job  opportunities 
and to enable Somalis to work for themselves.
Our country is abundant in resources; we have the 
longest  coastline  in  Africa,  9  million  acres  of  fertile 
land, the highest per capita number of livestock in the 
world.  We  have  oil  and  minerals.  We  are  strategically 
located  at  the  gateway  of  the  Middle  East  and  Africa, 
at the conf luence of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. 
Our  challenge  as  Somalis  is  to  use  those  resources  to 
bring our country and our people back onto the global 
economic playing field.
strengthening 
the  Government’s 
On  the  topic  of  resources,  we  are  committed 
to 
financial 
accountability.  Somalia  is  a  poor  country,  and  we 
cannot afford corruption. We seek the assistance of our 
international partners in establishing and strengthening 
transparent systems of public financial management.
The  problems  of  Somalia  have  spilled  far  beyond 
our borders. Foreign countries have taken in hundreds 
of thousands of Somalis f leeing the crisis in our country, 
at  considerable  sacrifice  to  their  own  citizens;  Somali 
pirates  have  become  the  scourge  of  shipping  far  from 
our shores. Extremists from across the world have used 
12-52349
19
A/67/PV.14
our  territory  as  a  base  from  which  to  plan  and  launch 
attacks against foreign countries.
As  Somalia  reclaims  its  status  as  a  full  member 
of the international community, we must acknowledge 
our responsibility as a nation, both for the proliferation 
of  these  problems  and  for  their  eventual  resolution. 
We  recognize  the  urgency  of  tackling  these  threats 
to  international  security,  but  we  are  also  conscious  of 
their  complexity  and  of  the  fact  that  lasting  solutions 
can be achieved only through ref lection, consultation, 
the force of law and only, as a last resort, the judicious 
use of force. We intend to engage with our international 
partners  on  all  of  these  fronts,  as  we  strengthen  our 
internal capacity to address these challenges.
In  that  context,  on  behalf  of  the  Somali  people,  I 
want  to  convey  our  condolences  to  the  United  States 
and  Algeria  on  the  recent  violent  loss  of  their  senior 
diplomats.  Diplomacy  is  a  peaceful  calling  and  the 
foundation of the United Nations, and we must protect 
diplomats for their important role in promoting dialogue 
and better understanding across countries and cultures.
The  members  of  the  Assembly  are  not  strangers 
to  conf lict  and  war.  Many  countries  have  experienced 
violence  and  destruction  equal  to  or  greater  than  my 
own.  But  few  other  countries  in  modern  times  have 
experienced  such  a  prolonged  period  of  statelessness: 
a  nation  without  a  recognized  Government,  a  valid 
passport or a convertible currency.
The road ahead is long, but we, the Somali people, 
are committed, and we are ready. We have created the 
guideposts,  and  we  have  chosen  a  new  leadership  to 
help us move forward. We are grateful for the support 
of  the  world  community;  we  would  not  be  here  today 
without its moral, political and financial support. Most 
dear to us is the personal sacrifice made by our African 
brothers  and  sisters  who  came  in  person  to  help  us 
protect our country and people. We cannot thank them 
enough, and we hope one day to be able to repay them.
As  many  today  have  noted,  the  United  Nations 
was  founded  on  the  conviction  that  the  nations  of  the 
world could come together in the spirit of cooperation 
to  tackle  their  common  problems  for  the  sake  of  the 
whole of humanity.
is  going 
The  world 
through  a  challenging 
period  —  economic  crises,  religious  tensions  and 
resource disputes. Every nation has its own challenges 
and priorities. And yet we come together as the United 
Nations  to  forge  a  common  way  forward,  because  we 
recognize  that  this  small  Earth  is  all  the  space  we 
have,  and  we  must  find  a  way  to  share  it  and  coexist 
peacefully.
As  Somalis,  we  have  learned  this  hard  lesson 
through  bitter  experience,  and  we  are  living  through 
it  every  day,  each  time  another  young  man  chooses 
to  take  his  own  life  and  the  lives  of  others;  each  time 
a  young  mother  has  to  bury  a  child.  Let  us  not  forget 
that  in  rebuilding  a  nation,  or  in  steering  the  world  to 
a better place, we are dealing with the lives of human 
beings, each life as precious as the next. For the future 
of our children, we must work harder to make our world 
peaceful and prosperous.
But it is not just the material attributes of statehood 
that  we  have  missed.  To  be  stateless  in  this  world  of 
States is injurious to a people’s identity, to its rights and 
privileges as a nation, and to its dignity. It is time for us 
to reclaim Somalia’s rightful place in the community of 
nations,  to  shoulder  our  duties  and  obligations,  and  to 
place our country in the service of peace, security and 
prosperity on this planet we share.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Transitional Federal Government of the 
Somali Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdiweli  Mohamed  Ali,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rashid  Meredov,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Turkmenistan. 
Mr.  Meredov  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  wish  at  the  outset  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude 
for being given the honour of speaking from this lofty 
rostrum. 
Allow me first of all to convey to the members of 
the Assembly and to the peoples of their countries the 
greetings  and  wishes  for  peace  and  prosperity  of  His 
Excellency the President of Turkmenistan, Gurbanguly 
Berdimuhamedov.
Allow  me  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him 
every  success  in  his  upcoming  critical  work.  I  would 
also  like  to  express  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
20 
12-52349
Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for the skilful and 
effective manner in which he carried out his duties.
Today  the  international  community  is  witness  to 
complex,  multifaceted  processes  in  geopolitics,  the 
global  economy  and  the  humanitarian  sphere.  Serious 
environmental  problems  challenge  us  with 
their 
unprecedented urgency. It is no exaggeration to say that 
major global issues related to energy supplies acquiring 
universal importance. All of these require a constructive 
and effective response on the part of the United Nations 
and 
international 
mechanisms  aimed  at  maximizing  the  effective  use 
of  existing  political,  financial,  organizational  and 
other  resources,  so  as  to  overcome  existing  problems 
and  challenges,  enhance  mutual  understanding  and 
trust, and reaffirm the irreversibility of the process of 
sustainable development of all the peoples of our planet.
the  elaboration  of  appropriate 
energy 
security 
speaking, 
Objectively 
is 
fundamental to the stable and conf lict-free development 
of  today’s  world.  As  a  leading  energy  provider  with 
the  fourth-largest  reserves  of  hydrocarbon  resources, 
Turkmenistan  legitimately  and  consistently  calls  for 
the establishment of a sound and reliable international 
energy  supply  system  and  the  drawing  up  of  plans 
and  projects  for  cooperation  in  world  energy  markets 
appropriate  to  modern  realities.  We  believe  that  it  is 
now  time  for  the  United  Nations  to  adopt  consensus 
decisions  on  universal  political  and  legal  mechanisms 
to govern global energy cooperation. 
As  members  know,  at  previous  General  Assembly 
sessions,  the  President  of  Turkmenistan  launched  a 
number of initiatives on energy security and mutually 
beneficial cooperation in the energy sector. The realities 
of modern life affirm the relevance of such initiatives. 
As  a  step  towards  those  initiatives,  Turkmenistan 
proposes  that  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
consider in depth the establishment of an international 
legal  framework  to  govern  the  operation  of  an  energy 
supply  system,  taking  into  due  account  the  interests 
of  hydrocarbon  producers  and  transit  and  recipient 
nations.
As  a  first  step  in  that  direction,  we  believe  that 
it  would  be  appropriate  to  draw  up  a  draft  resolution 
during 
the  establishment  of  an 
expert  group  to  develop  the  relevant  United  Nations 
international  instrument.  At  the  same  time,  we  look 
forward  to  constructive  engagement  with  all  States 
this  session  on 
A/67/PV.14
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  which,  we  believe, 
would  significantly  help  to  find  common  approaches 
to solving one of the most urgent problems of modern 
development.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, held in June this year, clearly identified 
the need to strengthen our efforts on ecological issues 
and environmental protection. Speaking at the meeting, 
the  President  of  Turkmenistan  noted  that,  at  the 
institutional  level,  today’s  main  objective  is  to  merge 
and complement existing global, regional and national 
instruments.
It  is  no  secret  that  the  Central  Asian  and  Caspian 
Sea  regions  have  difficult  environmental  conditions. 
We  think  that  the  efforts  made  to  date  to  improve 
the  situation  are  clearly  insufficient.  We  need  a  joint 
and  results-oriented  action  plan  that  combines  the 
use  of  scientific,  technological,  political,  diplomatic, 
administrative  and  technical  measures  for  effective 
outcomes in that direction. We therefore propose setting 
up, in cooperation with the United Nations, a regional 
centre  for  climate  change  technologies  in  Central 
Asia  and  the  Caspian  basin.  We  believe  that  such  a 
structure  would  enable  the  countries  in  those  regions 
to  significantly  strengthen  cooperation  on  ecological 
safety.  It  would  promote  the  effective  coordination  of 
national,  regional  and  international  efforts  and  would 
further mutual understanding and confidence-building 
towards achieving sustainable development goals.
With regard to international politics, Turkmenistan 
gives  particular  attention  to  the  issues  of  peace  and 
security  and  to  ensuring  sustainable  development.  In 
that  context,  one  of  the  main  challenges  facing  the 
international community today is the need for our joint 
efforts  to  ensure  non-proliferation  and  disarmament. 
As  a  party  to  the  principal  international  treaties  and 
United Nations conventions in that field, Turkmenistan 
expects to continue to fully support global disarmament 
processes. 
We  believe  that  it  is  relevant  to  pursue  the 
multilateral  dialogue  on  the  validity  of  the  Treaty  on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We propose 
that a high-level consultative meeting be held next year, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  discuss 
steps to expand the international non-proliferation legal 
framework.  Turkmenistan’s  initiative  is  particularly 
relevant  to  the  practical  implementation  of  steps 
towards  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  Central  Asia. 
As  we  know,  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-seventh  session 
12-52349
21
A/67/PV.14
includes  an  item  on  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in 
Central Asia.
Our country is ready to actively cooperate with the 
Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Disarmament 
Affairs  and  to  participate  in  a  number  of  initiatives 
in  that  regard.  Given  that  further  improving  relevant 
United  Nations  agencies  may  be  one  practical  step  in 
implementing  consistent  disarmament  measures,  we 
think  it  appropriate  to  consider  the  establishment  of  a 
United  Nations  subregional  centre  for  disarmament  in 
Asia.
Strengthening  comprehensive,  targeted  and  long-
term cooperation with the United Nations is a strategic 
choice  of  Turkmenistan  and  a  priority  of  its  foreign 
policy.  As  an  important  part  of  that  cooperation, 
our  country  is  considering  participating  in  United 
Nations activities to ensure human development, better 
living  standards  and  people’s  well-being;  to  establish 
conditions  conducive  to  global  economic  and  social 
growth;  to  utilize  human  creativity;  and  to  promote 
people’s rights and freedoms.
In  pursuing  those  lofty  goals  and  striving  to 
contribute,  where  possible, 
to 
their  achievement, 
Turkmenistan  has  announced 
its  candidacy 
for 
membership  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for 
the  period  2013-2015.  That  decision  was  made  on  the 
basis of the country’s current progress in the political, 
socioeconomic, cultural and other fields, its active role 
in international processes and its understanding of the 
responsibilities inherent to membership of the Council. 
If  elected,  Turkmenistan  plans  to  use  all  available 
means  to  improve  international  cooperation  for  the 
effective  implementation  of  sustainable  development 
goals.  At  the  same  time,  Turkmenistan  will  actively 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council by expanding its role in addressing the urgent 
issue of global socioeconomic development.
The most important element of the modern system 
of  international  relations  is  humanitarian  cooperation. 
To  underscore  that  the  humanitarian  component  is  at 
the  centre  of  the  highest  principles  and  values  of  the 
community  of  nations,  our  country  will  continue  to 
promote  its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  on 
protecting human rights and on establishing conditions 
conducive  to  human  development.  On  that  basis, 
given that the United Nations plays a major role in the 
comprehensive development of humanity and bearing in 
mind the achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals,  we  believe  it  appropriate  during  this  sixty-
seventh session to consider including the humanitarian 
issues on the United Nations international agenda as a 
separate issue.
In that context, Turkmenistan proposes establishing 
a  United  Nations  platform  of  action  for  humanitarian 
affairs  with  a  view  to  it  becoming  the  political  and 
legal  basis  for  the  consolidation  of  the  international 
community’s  humanitarian  efforts.  We  believe  that 
such  a  holistic  approach  will  enable  us  to  galvanize 
the  activities  of  United  Nations  agencies,  to  develop 
long-term  solutions  in  line  with  international  law 
and  General  Assembly  resolutions,  and  to  ensure  the 
practical implementation of United Nations conventions 
on humanitarian matters.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  our 
foreign  policy,  which  is  based  on  our  love  of  peace, 
on  neutrality  and  on  broad  international  cooperation, 
together  with  the  constructive  positions  advocated 
by  our  country,  form  a  solid  basis  for  Turkmenistan’s 
work in the United Nations. In that spirit, we will rely 
on  broad  cooperation  with  all  countries  of  the  world 
in  order  to  strengthen  and  develop  a  comprehensive 
international partnership.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Dimitris  Avramopoulos, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic.
Mr.  Avramopoulos  (Greece)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would like to thank the outgoing President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, Ambassador Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  and  to 
congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić of the Republic of Serbia 
on his election to the presidency of the Assembly at the 
sixty-seventh  session.  I  also  want  to  thank  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, who tirelessly carries on at the 
helm  of  our  Organization  in  an  ever-shifting  global 
environment.
I  wish  to  affirm  our  endorsement  of  the  positions 
voiced  in  the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union.  As  always,  Greece  remains  fully 
committed to the United Nations, to the values of peace, 
security,  and  to  raising  the  living  standards  of  people 
all over the world so that they may lead lives of dignity.
(spoke in English)
At the recent High-level Meeting on the rule of law, 
the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  reaffirmed 
their commitment to one of the most important principles 
22 
12-52349
underlying the international order, which should be our 
guide  in  the  conduct  of  diplomacy  and  international 
relations. We  fully  agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s 
opinion  that  freedom  of  expression  is  a  fundamental 
right and privilege belonging to all people, without any 
discrimination, and should not be abused by anyone in 
a disgraceful and shameful way.
there  are 
Unfortunately, 
those  who  will  do 
everything  to  provoke,  as  we  have  witnessed  again 
recently  in  the  provocative  and  unacceptable  movie 
which  denigrates  Islam.  Nevertheless,  we  should 
strongly  condemn  all  forms  of  violence,  and,  in 
this  particular  case,  the  violence  against  diplomatic 
missions. There is no justification for it. After all, the 
measure  and  limit  of  every  right  is  the  respect  of  the 
right of the other.
Greece  is  dedicated  to  United  Nations  efforts  to 
enhance international cooperation on the promotion and 
protection of human rights. We have therefore decided 
to present our candidacy for membership in the Human 
Rights Council for the 2013-2015 term. In this context, 
we  also  support  the  adoption  of  the  European  Union 
Strategic Framework on Human Rights and Democracy 
and  the  appointment  of  the  European  Union  Special 
Representative  for  Human  Rights  as  important  steps 
towards a more coherent European policy and approach 
to human dignity.
The  need  to  respect  and  protect  human  rights  and 
humanitarian  law  is  now  as  urgent  as  ever.  In  fact, 
illegal migration in the Mediterranean region has given 
rise  to  a  humanitarian  crisis.  That  is  why  Greece  has 
introduced  major  legislative  and  institutional  reforms 
in the fields of asylum and migration.
I now turn to one of the main pillars of United Nations 
action:  peace  and  security.  Greece’s  neighbourhood 
has  often  been  at  the  centre  of  serious,  interrelated 
security  challenges.  My  country  has  consistently 
played a stabilizing role, which we have accomplished 
through the pursuit of a policy of peaceful resolution of 
disputes,  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, based on respect for international law and the 
principles of sovereignty, independence and territorial 
integrity.  Despite  the  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
Greece has continued to participate actively in a number 
of  United  Nations  missions  and  operations  around  the 
world, including in Kosovo and Afghanistan and in the 
anti-piracy efforts off the coast of Somalia.
A/67/PV.14
Security in the Middle East remains a crucial quest 
for the countries of the region and the world community. 
Greece maintains historic ties of friendship, cooperation 
and mutual respect with its neighbours in North Africa 
and  the  Middle  East  —  countries  that,  following  the 
momentous  events  of  the  Arab  Spring,  are  moving 
towards  successful  electoral  processes  and  towards 
building  democratic  institutions.  The  European  Union 
should be there, right by their side, as they build their 
future. 
However,  we  have  not  seen  successful  outcomes 
everywhere.  In  Syria,  demonstrators  faced  tanks 
and  a  brutal  crack-down.  On  numerous  occasions  we 
have  called  on  President  Al-Assad  to  open  the  way 
for  a  transitional  authority,  comprising  all  sections  of 
Syrian society. Yet, we are still in a prolonged bloody 
stalemate that jeopardizes the present and the future of 
the Syrian people, and stability in our region. The result 
has been no less than 29,000 victims, 250,000 refugees, 
2.5 million Syrian citizens in need. We are convinced 
that  a  Syrian-led  political  solution  is  still  achieveable, 
and  we  see  no  alternative  to  such  a  solution.  Greece 
believes that there is no military solution to the Syrian 
problem. 
just, 
Peace  and  security  in  the  Eastern  Mediterranean 
cannot  be  achieved  without  a 
lasting  and 
comprehensive solution of the Palestinian issue, on the 
basis  of  a  two-State  solution.  We  regret  the  prolonged 
stagnation  in  the  direct  negotiations  between  the  two 
parties.  It  is  only  through  negotiations  that  peace 
can  finally  be  achieved.  We  believe  that  unilateral 
actions  cannot  fulfil  Israel’s  quest  for  security  or  the 
Palestinians’ aspirations for statehood, which we fully 
support. The two-State solution should remain feasible 
on the ground.
I  would  now  like  to  outline  the  current  position 
on  some  salient  issues  concerning  our  immediate 
neighbourhood.  The  issue  of  the  name  of  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is, beyond its semantic 
dimension, an important piece in the puzzle of putting 
to  rest  irredentist  notions  and  attempts  to  rewrite 
history  in  our  region.  I  have  been  informed  of  what 
the  representative  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia  said  today  in  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/67/PV.12).  Distorting  reality  in  front  of  the  entire 
international community and using nineteenth-century 
rhetoric in the twenty-first century is counterproductive 
and  will  lead  us  nowhere.  Populism  and  nationalism 
make  up  the  worst  possible  mix  for  the  promotion  of 
12-52349
23
A/67/PV.14
anyone’s  national  interests  and  the  stability  of  our 
region. 
Greece  believes  that  the  solution  lies  in  a  fair 
settlement. That would be a name with a geographical 
qualifier, since Macedonia is a geographical region that 
overlaps  the  territories  of  three  countries,  the  largest 
part  being  in  Greece,  followed  by  Bulgaria  and  then 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia.  And  of 
course the name must be used in relation to everyone; 
it is an erga omnes obligation, to use the Latin phrase. 
When we resolve this issue, we will be able to realize 
the vast potential in our relations, to our mutual benefit, 
and  Greece  will  be  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia’s staunchest ally and friend in its efforts to 
fulfil its Euro-Atlantic aspirations. After all, as is well 
known, Greece is the most important economic partner 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with a 
large presence of Greek companies operating there. We 
also  support  the  European  Union-facilitated  dialogue 
between  Belgrade  and  Pristina,  and  we  welcome  the 
constructive  approach  to  the  talks  on  the  part  of  the 
Serbian leadership. Dialogue is the only way to resolve 
problems  in  Kosovo,  while  unilateral  measures  and 
escalation,  especially  in  the  north,  should  be  avoided 
by all means.
Less than two years from now, Greece’s European 
Union  presidency  will  launch  Agenda  2014,  which 
aims  to  reinvigorate  the  European  perspectives  of  all 
our  neighbours  in  the  Western  Balkans.  Elsewhere  in 
our  immediate  neighbourhood,  Greece  is  consistently 
pursuing  stronger  cooperation  with  Turkey,  through  a 
wide  range  of  initiatives,  so  that  we  can  improve  our 
relations  to  the  benefit  of  both  peoples.  Moreover, 
Greece continues to support Turkey’s candidacy for full 
membership in the European family, on the condition, 
of course, that all relevant membership criteria are met 
and that the necessary reforms are carried out. It is of the 
utmost  importance  that  Turkey  gives  tangible  signs of 
full respect for international law and abandons attitudes 
like the standing threat of casus belli against Greece, or 
its attitude vis-à-vis Cyprus, which undermines efforts 
to build trust.
That  brings  us  to  the  Eastern  Mediterranean  as  a 
whole, where Greece continues to play its role as a force 
for  peace  and  stability.  Greece  supports  the  efforts  of 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  to  pursue 
negotiations  with  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community, 
under  United  Nations  auspices,  aimed  ultimately  at 
reuniting  the  island,  according  to  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  taking  into  account  the  fact  that  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  is  a  member  of  the  European 
Union, which currently holds its presidency. However, 
after 38 years, the division of the island continues and 
the results of the talks have been disappointing, owing 
to  Turkish-Cypriot  intransigence  about  engaging  in 
constructive talks. We applaud Cyprus’s decision to act 
on its sovereign right to exploit the natural gas deposits 
in its exclusive economic zone.
We  are  forging  partnerships  with  other  emerging 
energy  players  in  the  region,  including  Israel  and 
the  Arab  countries,  with  which  we  enjoy  traditional 
relations of friendship and trust. Greece is contributing 
to bringing stability and economic growth to the Eastern 
Mediterranean,  in  order  to  promote  energy  security 
and  diversification  of  sources  and  suppliers  for  the 
European  energy  markets.  A  resolution  of  the  Cyprus 
issue  would  have  a  tremendously  positive  effect,  not 
just for the Cypriots themselves but for Greek-Turkish 
relations and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean as 
a whole.
I  will  conclude  with  a  few  words  about  the 
economic  crisis  that  Greece  is  confronting  with  the 
help  of  its  partners  in  the  European  Union  and  the 
international  community.  The  new  tripartite  coalition 
Government  in  Greece  is  implementing  an  ambitious 
economic adjustment programme in order to improve its 
macroeconomic outlook and achieve fiscal adjustment, 
while  at  the  same  time  addressing  structural  reforms 
aimed at growth and job creation. 
That  effort  has  produced 
impressive  results, 
especially  a  significant  reduction  of  the  primary 
deficit.  At  the  same  time,  the  Greek  economy  has 
regained more than 50 per cent of its competitiveness in 
relation to its global trade partners, while the business 
and  investment  climate  is  on  a  positive  path.  We  are 
determined to continue along that path, bearing in mind 
that the Greek people are suffering tremendously from 
the implementation of the austerity programme.
In a broader view, it is evident that this crisis is not 
just  Greek  or  European.  International  economies  are 
intertwined,  and  therefore  ours  is  also  a  global  crisis. 
In  that  respect,  we  need  to  examine  measures  aimed 
at  generating  all-inclusive  and  job-creating  growth, 
measures that will regenerate economies and diminish 
the social impact of the crisis.
The  eurozone,  with  Greece  at  the  forefront,  is 
making a hard and painstaking effort and adopting new 
24 
12-52349
paths and ways to climb out of the deep economic crisis. 
The pivotal role and geopolitical importance of Greece 
in South-Eastern Europe, in the Eastern Mediterranean 
and  the  Middle  East  will  emerge  as  a  result  of  the 
events  unfolding  in  our  neighbourhood.  It  is  indeed 
a  stabilizing  role,  since  our  vital  national  interests 
are  aligned  with  the  promotion  of  peace,  stability, 
prosperity  and  regional  security.  Our  advantage  is 
not only our geographical position but also our strong 
political  will  to  become  a  cornerstone  of  stability 
and  security,  at  a  time  when  uncertainty  dangerously 
threatens our region.
During  the  past  two  years,  Greece  has  been 
portrayed  by  the  global  media  as  a  country  defined 
by  its  economic  need.  It  is  true  that  our  country  is 
experiencing  a  painful  transition  leading  to  economic 
recovery  and  growth.  It  is  also  true  that  the  Greek 
people have known in their 3,000 years of history crises 
more  serious  than  the  present  one.  We  survived.  We 
excelled. Let me assure the General Assembly and the 
family of nations that Greece will make it.
We  will  make  it  because  Greece  is  larger  than  its 
geographical  size  and  more  precious  than  its  present 
fiscal  reality.  Through  knowledge,  science  and  art, 
Greece  is  there  when  progress  takes  place.  Through 
democracy  Greece  is  present  as  a  global  civilization. 
Through Olympism Greece unites humankind. Through 
our merchant f leet and our maritime tradition we carry 
goods  all  around  the  world.  Through  our  love  for  life 
we  constantly  remind  the  world  that  progress  should 
always be measured on the human scale. Through and 
by our legacy we will make it once more.
We  will  make  it  because  Greece  is  not  about 
asking. Greece is about offering. Let us not forget that 
Greece  holds  intrinsic  value  in  the  hearts  and  minds 
of people irrespective of nationality, race and religion. 
And that gives us the moral power, the support and the 
encouragement,  along  with  our  partners  in  Europe,  to 
give to the world and to win our current fight.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Yang  Jiechi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
Mr. Yang Jiechi (China) (spoke in Chinese): I wish 
to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
I  am  confident  that  with  his  ability  and  experience  he 
will  successfully  fulfil  that  lofty  mission.  I  also  wish 
A/67/PV.14
to thank Mr. Al-Nasser for his positive contribution as 
President at the last session.
the  application  of 
The  world  is  undergoing  major  and  profound 
changes.  The  trends  towards  multipolarity,  economic 
globalization  and 
information 
technology  are  gaining  momentum.  Countries  have 
never been as interconnected and interdependent as they 
are today. Emerging markets and developing countries 
have  never  had  such  strong  inf luence,  and  cross-
civilizational  dialogue  and  exchanges  are  f lourishing 
as  never  before.  To  promote  peace,  development 
and  cooperation  has  become  the  shared  aspiration  of 
people across the world and the common pursuit of the 
international community.
On the other hand, the world is still far from being 
peaceful.  The  underlying  impact  of  the  international 
financial  crisis  and  the  European  debt  crisis  remains 
strong. Destabilizing factors and uncertainties affecting 
global  growth  have  increased.  Regional  turbulence 
persists,  hotspot  issues  keep  emerging  and  traditional 
and  non-traditional  security 
issues  have  become 
intertwined. The international security environment is 
highly complex.
Facing  both  unprecedented  opportunities  and 
challenges,  we  must  not  allow  the  outdated  Cold  War 
mentality  and  zero-sum  game  theory  to  stand  in  our 
way. We should act like passengers who stick together 
in  a  boat  when  crossing  a  torrential  river  and  seek 
win-win progress through cooperation. That is the only 
option for countries around the world. To ensure one’s 
own security, a country should respect and accommodate 
the  security  of  other  nations.  To  achieve  one’s  own 
development,  a  country  should  actively  promote 
common development. In pursuing one’s own interests, 
a  country  should  take  into  account  the  interests  of 
other nations. Only by promoting common security and 
development  for  all  its  members  can  the  international 
community  effectively  address  complex  and  multiple 
security 
resolve 
increasingly serious difficulties facing development and 
ensure  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
the  world.  With  that  in  mind,  China  believes  that  it  is 
important to do the following.
threats  and  global  challenges, 
We  should  promote  equality  and  democracy  in 
international  relations.  Mutual  respect  and  equality 
are  basic  norms  governing  international  relations.  All 
countries, large or small, strong or weak, rich or poor, 
are  equal  members  of  the  international  community. 
12-52349
25
A/67/PV.14
Respect  for  each  other’s  sovereignty,  core  interests 
and choice of social system and development path is a 
fundamental principle guiding State-to-State relations. 
We  should  resolutely  promote  greater  democracy  in 
international  relations.  A  country  should  deal  with  its 
internal  affairs  itself.  Issues  involving  the  interests  of 
various countries should be handled by those countries 
through  consultation.  We  should  remain 
to 
multilateralism and uphold the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the central role 
of the United Nations in international affairs. 
true 
China  strives  to  strengthen  political  mutual  trust 
and  to  address  problems  and  differences  with  other 
countries through dialogue and exchanges. China does 
not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries or 
impose its will on others. China does not allow outside 
forces to interfere in its internal affairs.
We  should  seek  win-win  progress 
through 
cooperation on development. As economic globalization 
deepens, all countries have a high stake in each other’s 
success.  We  should  therefore  enhance  cooperation 
and  develop  common  interests  to  achieve  win-win 
progress  with  benefits  for  all.  We  should  tap  the 
potential for cooperation in all countries, increase and 
develop cooperation, improve cooperation mechanisms 
and  work  together  to  make  economic  globalization 
balanced, inclusive and beneficial to all. 
We 
should  accelerate 
the  development  of 
developing countries and narrow the North-South gap. 
We should enhance global development cooperation to 
ensure that the benefits of development reach everyone. 
Since  the  start  of  the  international  financial  crisis, 
while  maintaining  its  own  robust  growth,  China  has 
significantly  increased  contributions  to  international 
financial institutions, extended a helping hand to other 
developing  countries  and  bought  more  bonds  from 
certain developed countries. That has helped to stabilize 
the international economic and financial situation and 
to maintain the economic and social development of the 
relevant countries.
We  should  ensure  fairness  and  effectiveness  in 
conducting  global  governance.  Facing 
increasing 
global challenges, the international community should 
strengthen  coordination  and  cooperation,  establish  a 
fair,  equitable,  f lexible  and  effective  system  of  global 
governance, properly address the various global issues 
and  promote  the  common  well-being  of  humanity. 
China  supports  the  United  Nations  in  enhancing  its 
authority, efficiency and ability to address new threats 
and challenges through the required proper reform. 
It is important to advance the building of a global 
system  of  economic  governance  with  a  focus  on 
reforming  the  international  financial  system,  rapidly 
implement  the  quota  and  governance  reform  plans  of 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  other  financial 
institutions, and increase the representation and voice of 
emerging markets and developing countries. We should 
fully  implement  the  outcome  and  consensus  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex), further develop international 
cooperation on sustainable development and discuss the 
establishment of a post-2015 international development 
agenda based on actively implementing the Millennium 
Development Goals. 
democratic 
intergovernmental 
We  should  launch  a  process  of  open,  transparent 
and 
consultation, 
with  development  and  poverty  reduction  as  the  core 
objectives.  We  should  also  fully  leverage  the  role  of 
civil society and the private sector in that task. Together 
with  all  other  parties,  China  is  ready  to  actively 
participate in reforming the international system and in 
global governance and to jointly face the various global 
challenges.
We should pursue common progress by embracing 
the  diversity  of  civilizations.  According  to  ancient 
Chinese  philosophy,  the  world  will  be  a  great  place 
when  all  things  thrive  without  harming  each  another 
and  when  various  efforts  are  pursued  in  parallel 
without their clashing. We should encourage exchanges 
and mutual learning among different civilizations and 
social  systems,  draw  on  each  other’s  strength  through 
competition  and  comparison  and  make  progress  by 
seeking  common  ground,  while  maintaining  our 
differences. We should respect the diversity of the world 
and  the  right  of  all  countries  to  independently  choose 
their  development  path.  China  encourages  dialogue 
and exchanges among civilizations. We should replace 
confrontation  with  dialogue  and  bridge  differences 
with  inclusiveness  in  order  to  make  the  world  more 
harmonious  and  to  ensure  common  progress  for 
humanity.
We  should  seek  common  security  amid  growing 
interdependence. No country is immune to the complex 
and  multiple  security  threats  and  challenges  in  the 
world. We should foster a new thinking on security that 
is  characterized  by  mutual  trust  and  benefit,  equality 
26 
12-52349
and coordination. We should adopt a holistic approach 
to  address  both  the  symptoms  and  the  root  causes  of 
the  various  security  challenges  and  should  build  a 
peaceful and stable international and regional security 
environment. 
The  United  Nations  should  fully  play  its  role  in 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and 
in  establishing  a  fair  and  effective  mechanism  for 
common  security.  We  must  resolve  disputes  through 
dialogue  and  negotiation  and  oppose  the  wilful  use or 
threat of force. We must oppose all forms of terrorism, 
separatism and extremism.
West  Asia  and  North  Africa  are  undergoing 
profound changes. China respects and supports efforts 
by  countries  in  those  regions  to  independently  deal 
with  their  internal  affairs.  We  respect  the  aspirations 
and  calls  of  people  in  those  areas  for  change  and 
development.  The  unique  features  of  those  regions  in 
terms  of  religion,  civilization,  history  and  ethnicity 
must be respected. We hope that the relevant parties will 
settle  differences  through  inclusive  and  constructive 
political  dialogue  and  that  they  will  resolve  problems 
peacefully. 
Safeguarding  peace  and  stability  in  those  areas, 
upholding  the  fundamental  and  long-term  interests  of 
Arab  countries  and  ensuring  the  growth  of  friendly 
China-Arab  relations  will  remain  a  central  goal  of 
China’s policy towards such regions. We will continue 
to  tirelessly  strive,  together  with  countries  in  those 
areas,  to  promote  peace  and  development  in  line  with 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
talks  and 
China  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  stalled 
Palestinian-Israeli  peace 
the  economic 
and  humanitarian  difficulties  facing  the  Palestinian 
people. The turbulence in the region should not divert 
international attention from the Palestinian issue. China 
supports the Palestinian people in establishing, on the 
basis of the 1967 border, an independent Palestinian State 
that enjoys full sovereignty, with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.  China  supports  Palestine’s  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  and  other  international  organizations. 
China urges both Palestine and Israel to take concrete 
measures to remove obstacles and to work for the early 
resumption and substantive progress of the peace talks.
China  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  ongoing 
tension  and  worsening  humanitarian  situation 
in 
Syria.  We  call  on  all  relevant  parties  in  Syria  to  put 
A/67/PV.14
an  immediate  end  to  the  fighting  and  violence,  to 
implement  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan’s  six-point  plan  and  the  communiqué 
of  the  foreign  ministers’  meeting  of  the  Action  Group 
for Syria (A/66/865, annex), and to launch an inclusive 
political dialogue and a Syrian-led political transition as 
soon as possible. China is open to any political plan that 
is acceptable to all parties in Syria. The relevant parties 
of  the  international  community  should  play  a  positive 
and  constructive  role  in  that  regard,  credibly  support 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  Joint  Special  Representative 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States, 
in  conducting  impartial  mediation,  and  strive  to  set 
in  motion  and  move  forward  the  process  of  political 
transition in Syria.
The Iranian nuclear issue has reached a new, critical 
stage. The relevant parties should remain committed to 
a diplomatic solution and begin a new round of dialogue 
as  soon  as  possible.  In  the  spirit  of  respecting  each 
other’s  concerns,  we  should  act  with  f lexibility  and 
pragmatism  to  expand  common  ground  and  overcome 
differences,  seek  early  progress  in  dialogue  and 
negotiation  and,  over  time,  achieve  a  comprehensive, 
long-term and appropriate solution to the issue. China 
has always supported efforts to uphold the international 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and  will  continue  to 
work with the parties concerned and play a constructive 
role in seeking a peaceful solution to the Iranian nuclear 
issue through dialogue and negotiation.
The  Asia-Pacific  region  has  maintained  general 
stability  and  rapid  growth  for  many  years,  thereby 
making  important  contributions  to  global  stability 
and prosperity. Given the growing threat of shrinkage 
in  the  global  economy  and  increasing  volatility  in  the 
international  situation,  maintaining  peace,  stability 
and sound growth in the Asia-Pacific region is crucial 
to ensuring the well-being of its people and meets the 
broader interests of the international community. 
fully 
respect 
the 
building 
We  should 
interdependent  Asia-Pacific 
reality  of  a 
region, 
diverse  and 
and  continue  to  follow  the  approach  of  regional 
cooperation  — 
consensus,  making 
incremental progress and accommodating each other’s 
comfort  levels  —  that  has  proved  effective  over  the 
years.  We  should  promote  regional  development  with 
greater  determination,  advance  regional  cooperation 
with  increased  resources,  and  handle  differences  with 
longer-term interests in mind so as to uphold the peace, 
stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region.
12-52349
27
A/67/PV.14
As  an 
in  building 
important  participant 
the 
international  system,  China  is  committed  to  sharing 
development  opportunities  with  other  countries  and 
to  working  with  them  to  overcome  various  challenges 
and  realize  security  and  development  for  all.  China 
will stay the course of peaceful development. We seek 
a  peaceful  international  environment  in  which  China 
can promote its own development. By so doing, China 
will contribute to global peace and development. China 
is  firm  in  upholding  its  core  interests.  At  the  same 
time, it respects the legitimate right of other countries 
to  protect  their  interests.  We  seek  to  expand  common 
interests with other parties for the sake of the common 
good. 
China  has  contributed  a  total  of  some  21,000 
personnel  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
and  taken  an  active  part  in  international  cooperation 
on counter-terrorism, anti-piracy and non-proliferation 
efforts.  In  our  efforts  to  resolve  major  international 
and regional hotspot issues, we have urged the parties 
concerned to seek peaceful solutions through negotiation 
and thereby played an important and constructive role 
in easing tensions and achieving the political resolution 
of  those  issues.  China  has  made  remarkable  progress 
in pursuing peaceful development and will continue to 
follow that path in the years to come.
friendly 
China  will  enhance 
relations  and 
cooperation  with  all  other  countries  on  the  basis  of 
the  five  principles  of  peaceful  coexistence  and  strive 
to  promote  a  new  type  of  relationship  among  major 
countries  based  on  mutual  respect  and  win-win 
cooperation.  Following  a  policy  of  building  good 
relationships  and  partnerships  with  neighbouring 
countries, China has actively expanded exchanges with 
its neighbours.
China  has  contributed  to  over  50  per  cent  of 
Asia’s  growth  for  many  consecutive  years.  We  have 
endeavoured  to  build  mechanisms  of  mutual  trust  and 
political  cooperation  with  other  Asian  countries  and 
appropriately to address differences and frictions among 
relevant  countries.  On  the  basis  of  firmly  upholding 
China’s  sovereignty,  security  and  territorial  integrity, 
we have worked with our neighbours to maintain sound 
relations and overall stability in the region. China treats 
other  developing  countries  as  good  friends  and  good 
partners;  we  therefore  support  each  other  and  seek 
common development on the basis of equality. 
By  the  end  of  2011,  the  Chinese  Government  had 
built  over  2,200  projects  that  are  important  to  the 
local  economies  and  people’s  lives  in  the  countries 
concerned. We have cancelled the debts owed to China 
by  50  heavily  indebted  poor  and  least-developed 
countries.  We  have  trained  over  60,000  personnel  in 
various  sectors  for  173  developing  countries  and  13 
regional and international organizations. All of that has 
contributed to the economic and social development of 
other developing countries.
China  has  taken  an  active  part  in  reforming  the 
international  system  and  global  governance,  and 
assumed  its  due  share  of  international  responsibilities 
and  obligations  as  its  capabilities  permit.  We  are 
working to build a fair, equitable and non-discriminatory 
global  trading  system  and  a  more  equal  and  balanced 
new  global  partnership  for  development.  We  support 
a  greater  role  for  the  Group  of  Twenty  as  the  premier 
forum for international economic cooperation, as well 
as  the  efforts  of  emerging  markets  represented  by  the 
BRICS group — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South 
Africa  —  aimed  at  exploring  a  new  model  of  global 
cooperation.
The  global  economy  is  at  a  critical  stage,  and 
achieving full recovery and sustained growth will be a 
long and difficult task. Last year, despite a challenging 
economic environment both at home and abroad, China 
registered a gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate 
of 9.3 per cent, and made good progress in adjusting its 
economic structure and improving people’s lives. Since 
the  beginning  of  the  year,  in  order  to  address  some 
new  problems  in  economic  performance,  the  Chinese 
Government has stepped up anticipatory fine-tuning of 
the economy and introduced a series of targeted policy 
measures.  That  has  boosted  market  confidence  and 
ensured steady growth. 
China’s GDP grew by 7.8 per cent in the first half of 
the year, and the country has enjoyed sound economic 
and  social  development.  China  is  still  in  an  important 
period  of  strategic  opportunities  for  development. 
Industrialization,  urbanization, 
the  application  of 
information technology and agricultural modernization 
will  continue 
to  unlock  our  great  potential  for 
development.  We  have  the  confidence,  means  and 
ability  to  maintain  steady  and  robust  growth  and 
achieve long-term, sound and sustainable development. 
During  its  twelfth  five-year  plan  for  the  period 
2011-2015, China’s domestic market will become one of 
the largest in the world. Its total imports are expected 
to exceed $10 trillion, and direct outbound investment 
28 
12-52349
A/67/PV.14
is  expected  to  exceed  $500  billion.  That  will  create 
enormous business and job opportunities for the world 
and  provide  good  opportunities  for  other  countries’ 
development.
The  Diaoyu  Islands  have  been  an  integral  part 
of  China’s  territory  since  ancient  times.  China  has 
indisputable  historical  and  legal  evidence  in  that 
regard. Japan seized the islands in 1895 at the end of the 
Sino-Japanese War and forced the Chinese Government 
of the time to sign an unequal treaty to cede the islands 
and other Chinese territories to Japan. After the Second 
World  War,  the  Diaoyu  Islands  and  other  Chinese 
territories  occupied  by  Japan  were  returned  to  China 
in accordance with the Cairo Declaration, the Potsdam 
Agreement and other international documents. 
By  taking  such  unilateral  actions  as  the  so-called 
island purchase, the Japanese Government has grossly 
violated China’s sovereignty. This is an outright denial 
of  the  outcomes  of  the  victorious  anti-fascist  World 
War  and  poses  a  grave  challenge  to  the  post-war 
international  order  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. The moves made by 
Japan are totally illegal and invalid. They can in no way 
change  the  historical  fact  that  Japan  stole  the  Diaoyu 
Islands  from  China  and  that  China  has  territorial 
sovereignty  over  them.  The  Chinese  Government  is 
firm in upholding China’s territorial sovereignty. China 
strongly urges Japan to immediately stop all activities 
violating  China’s  territorial  sovereignty,  take  concrete 
action to correct its mistakes and return to the path of 
resolving the dispute through negotiation.
The  Communist  Party  of  China  will  soon  hold 
its  eighteenth  National  Congress.  We  are  confident 
that  the  important  meeting  will  lead  China’s  reform, 
opening-up  and  modernization  drive  to  a  new  stage. 
The  facts  have  shown  and  will  continue  to  prove  that 
China’s development is peaceful, open, cooperative and 
win-win in nature. We will work with the international 
community  to  follow  the  trend  of  history  and  the  call 
of the times and build a harmonious world of enduring 
peace and shared prosperity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Espen Barth Eide, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway.
Mr.  Eide  (Norway):  Leadership  is  about  making 
choices. It is about the ability to make the right decision 
at the right moment and to have the stamina to deliver 
accordingly. It is about the will to help shape the future 
of  individuals,  nations  and  the  planet.  And  it  is  about 
the  courage  that  comes  with  seeking  peace  with  one’s 
enemies, as Yitzhak Rabin once told us. Leadership is 
also about creating the conditions for people to choose 
how to live their lives. Freedom is more than the mere 
absence of physical or legal obstacles. 
The  very  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is  to 
promote freedom for all people — freedom from want, 
freedom from fear, and the freedom to live in dignity. 
People are only truly free when they are able to choose 
the  way  they  want  to  live  their  own  lives,  regardless 
of race, gender or sexual orientation. It is the freedom 
of  a  woman  to  choose  when  to  have  children  and  also 
when  not  to  have  them.  It  is  about  her  freedom  from 
intrusion of her physical integrity, as well as her right 
to think and say what she wants. It is about the freedom 
that  allows  mother  and  child  to  survive  birth,  and  the 
freedom  that  allows  every  child  to  live  a  healthy  life, 
receive  education  and  walk  to  school  without  fear  of 
land mines or cluster munitions. It is about the freedom 
of  every  man  and  every  woman  to  organize,  to  speak 
out and to have their say as society progresses.
Those freedoms lay the ground for development and 
prosperity. They give men and women a chance to build 
a  better  future  for  themselves  and  for  their  families. 
Some people can only dream about those freedoms, but 
when they do exist they are often the result of collective 
action by families, communities, regions and States and 
at the global level. At the end of the day, that is why we 
are here in this Assembly.
In Syria, mass atrocities are continuing. The crisis 
in  Syria  started  with  a  call  for  freedom  and  dignity 
through  peaceful  protests.  The  Syrian  Government 
bears the primary responsibility. The privileges of the 
few should no longer stand in the way of the aspirations 
of the many. The regime of Bashar Al-Assad has lost all 
legitimacy and must cede power. The violence in Syria 
must stop.
Even in war, there are rules. All parties have clear 
responsibilities  under  international  humanitarian  law. 
To any party that commits violations of these principles, 
I say this: “You are all individually responsible. When 
justice  prevails,  you  will  be  held  accountable  for  the 
crimes  you  have  committed.  Do  not  expect  to  be 
pardoned by stating that your opponent committed the 
same crime.”
When  the  United  Nations  was  formed  in  San 
Francisco in 1945, we collectively decided to establish 
12-52349
29
A/67/PV.14
a Security Council to act on our behalf. The permanent 
members were then entrusted with the right of veto. My 
country’s delegation at the time was led by Mr. Trygve 
Lie,  who  would  later  become  the  Organization’s  first 
Secretary-General. On behalf of my country, he cast his 
vote in favour of the right of veto for the five permanent 
members,  as  did  many  other  small  and  medium-sized 
countries.  They  did  so  not  only  to  ref lect  the  world 
order  of  the  day,  but  also  to  ensure  that  the  Council 
would have genuine authority to make decisions and be 
able  to  act  on  our  behalf.  They  did  not  do  so  because 
they held certain States to be superior to others. 
Therefore, and in the light of the Syrian drama, my 
message to the members of the Security Council is that 
people in the Arab world, in Europe, in Asia, in Africa 
and  in  the  Americas  are  watching  with  horror  how 
history  is  repeating  itself.  Once  again,  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  are  divided  and 
unable to protect people on the ground. In its absence, 
extremists on all sides are free to kill, maim and rape. 
We now expect the members of the Council to act. We 
expect  them  to  put  away  outdated  ideas  of  zero-sum 
games  or  spheres  of  inf luence  and  to  strive  to  seek  a 
common position. Enough blood has been shed.
The  verdict  is  harsh  against  those  who  choose  the 
wrong  side  of  history.  They  must  not  allow  narrow 
self-interest  to  block  the  winds  of  change  that  the 
vast  majority  of  members  of  this  Assembly  applaud. 
President Al-Assad of Syria was not forced to take the 
path of conf lict and confrontation; he could have opted 
for  compromise  and  cooperation.  Elsewhere  in  the 
world, quite different choices are being made.
Today  in  this  Assembly,  we  have  heard  how 
Myanmar’s  reformist  President  Thein  Sein  is  opening 
the door for a free and democratic Myanmar. I commend 
the courage shown by the Myanmar Government. I also 
commend the courage of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. She 
has chosen to talk to the very people who once held her 
in confinement.
Earlier  today  in  Addis  Ababa,  the  leaders  of  the 
Sudan  and  South  Sudan  made  the  choice  to  end  the 
bloody conf lict that has marred their peoples’ lives for 
decades.  The  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  had  again  been 
on the brink of war, but by signing today’s agreements 
they have opted for peace. We salute the African Union, 
which  has,  in  close  partnership  with  the  Security 
Council, helped make that choice possible.
In  Colombia,  the  Government  and  representatives 
of  the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia 
have  made  the  wise  choice  of  entering  into  formal 
negotiations in order to end another age-old conf lict.
As  Norway’s  Foreign  Minister,  I  am  the  Chair  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison  Committee  for  the  Coordination 
of International Assistance to Palestinians. We met on 
the eve of this session of the General Assembly. I want 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  share  with  Member  States 
my  deep  concern  about  the  state  of  play  in  the  Israel-
Palestine relationship. Exactly one year ago, we agreed 
here  in  New  York  that  the  Palestinian  State-building 
process  had  reached  a  level  where  the  institutions  of 
State  were  in  place.  Great  expectations  were  created, 
only to be frustrated. 
Time  is  running  short  —  shorter  than  many  seem 
to  understand.  There  is  significant  fatigue  among  the 
Palestinian  population.  They  may  become  inspired 
to  look  for  alternative  options  —  options  that  would 
severely  hamper  the  prospects  of  Palestinians  and 
Israelis alike. I see a similar fatigue emerging among the 
countries that are funding the Palestinian authorities.
The two-State solution is the only path to sustainable 
peace, but the prospect of realizing a Palestinian State 
based  on  the  two-State  solution  is  diminishing  as  the 
expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  continues.  Those 
actions remain the main obstacle to peace and they must 
stop.  To  get  the  peace  process  back  on  track,  we  need 
to break the impasse and reinstall the trust in a political 
horizon  based  on  the  final  status  issues.  Negotiations 
remain the key to achieve that; they must start now.
Leadership  is  also  about  trust.  To  achieve  our 
goals,  we  need  a  strong  United  Nations.  I  applaud  the 
Secretary-General’s tireless efforts aimed at reforming 
the  internal  workings  of  the  Organization.  We  have 
elected a Secretary-General to lead, but we must allow 
him  to  do  so.  Intergovernmental  micromanagement 
of  what  would  be  the  chief  executive’s  prerogative  in 
any modern organization is nothing but the opposite of 
making the United Nations work.
To  conclude,  leaders  have  real  choices.  Leaders 
have  real  responsibilities.  Humankind  shapes  its  own 
future.  Failing  to  solve  the  most  critical  challenges 
of  our  time  not  only  harms  those  who  suffer  under 
poverty,  war  or  oppression;  it  also  deprives  people  of 
the conviction that they too can shape their own future. 
And that very conviction, that belief in oneself and each 
other,  is  what  will  make  freedom  from  want,  freedom 
30 
12-52349
from fear and the freedom to live in dignity possible for 
all. That is the purpose of our leadership.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed 
Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the 
Kingdom of Bahrain.
Shaikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa (Bahrain) 
(spoke  in  Arabic):  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  congratulate 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I 
am  confident  that  he  will  successfully  manage  the 
session thanks to his competence and his rich and long 
experience  in  diplomacy  in  the  service  of  his  friendly 
country, the Republic of Serbia. I also express our great 
appreciation for the President of the Assembly at its last 
session,  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of 
the fraternal State of Qatar, and thank him for the vital 
role he played, the constructive issues he advanced and 
his excellent management of the work of the sixty-sixth 
session.  We  are  proud  of  him  as  a  seasoned  diplomat 
from a State member of the Gulf Cooperation Council, 
and wish him every success in his future endeavours.
Let  me  also  express  our  great  appreciation  for 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  thank  him  for 
the  strenuous  efforts  he  has  made  to  enhance  the 
effective role of the Organization in various fields. We 
look forward to a renewed role for the United Nations 
compatible with the Secretary-General’s new vision so 
that the Organization will be able to address the major 
challenges before it.
Since  joining  the  United  Nations,  the  Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  has  worked  tirelessly  to  promote  the  noble 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular,  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  and 
the  development  of  cooperation  and  friendly  relations 
among  nations  on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect.  Guided 
by  full  respect  for  those  principles,  I  am  honoured  to 
represent  a  country  that  acts  upon  its  international 
commitments and has laid the foundations of a modern 
State  through  initiatives,  planning  and  political  and 
organizational  vision.  We  seek  to  build  a  modern 
society  that  is  well  organized  and  committed  to  its 
values  in  various  fields,  notably  education,  health, 
employment, vocational training, economic reform and 
the advancement of women. 
Our  country,  Bahrain,  has  opted  for  dialogue  as 
an  approach  to  all  its  modernization  efforts  aimed 
at  meeting  the  requirements  of  its  long  history.  We 
A/67/PV.14
in 
conducted  municipal  elections 
the  1920s  and 
parliamentary  elections  in  the  past  few  decades. 
Important  results  have  been  achieved  in  providing  a 
greater degree of equality, participation, transparency, 
political  rights  and  human  dignity.  That  is  truly  a 
historical  milestone  on  the  path  towards  building  a 
society  based  on  competitive  sustainability,  justice, 
the  rule  of  law,  equality  and  the  consecration  of  the 
principles  of  popular  participation  and  representation 
in the decision-making process.
Notwithstanding  all  those  remarkable  national 
achievements, since last year the Kingdom of Bahrain 
has  faced  some  serious  challenges  to  its  security  and 
stability,  which  it  has  addressed  in  full  transparency, 
commitment and honesty. In that context, we established 
the  Bahrain  Independent  Commission  of  Inquiry  to 
ascertain the truth and provide redress. Consequently, 
we  launched  a  comprehensive  dialogue  among  the 
various  sectors  of  society  that  resulted  in  a  series  of 
constitutional and legislative reforms encompassing all 
aspects of life — political, economic, social and legal.
Against  that  backdrop,  His  Majesty  King  Hamad 
bin Issa Al Khalifa of Bahrain proposed the creation of 
an Arab court of human rights to lay the foundations of 
an  environment  conducive  to  the  protection  of  human 
rights  and  the  prevention  of  their  abuse  in  the  Arab 
world, using the model of the Inter-American Court of 
Human  Rights,  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights 
and the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights. 
The Council of the League of Arab States endorsed that 
historical  initiative,  and  arrangements  are  currently 
under  way  to  establish  the  legal  basis  for  the  court’s 
establishment.  We  hope  that  the  court  will  become  a 
reality in the near future.
Last  week,  consistent  with  our  efforts  to  build 
a  pluralistic  Bahraini  society  and  in  full  respect  for 
the  protection  and  enhancement  of  human  rights,  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  approved  more  than  90  per  cent 
of  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council in Geneva during its Universal Periodic Review, 
including a possible accession to the Optional Protocol 
to  the  Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel, 
Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
The challenges and threats facing our region have 
led the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council 
to  realize  the  need  for  greater  synergies  among  them. 
They  have  endorsed  the  proposal  of  the  Custodian  of 
the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz 
12-52349
31
A/67/PV.14
Al-Saud,  to  move  from  cooperation  to  union  as  a 
means  of  addressing  those  challenges  and  threats  and 
building  capacities  to  achieve  a  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council society based on a shared vision of the future 
that responds to the accelerating pace of the world and 
answers  to  the  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the  Gulf 
region.  They  are  convinced  that  their  interests  and 
gains  can  be  served  only  through  solidarity  and  unity 
with  a  view  to  preserving  national  independence  and 
State  sovereignty  and  to  meeting  the  needs  arising 
from the strategic transformations on the regional and 
international scenes.
regional  problems  and 
My country believes that the United Nations has an 
indispensable  role  to  play  in  addressing  international 
and 
finding  appropriate 
solutions  to  them.  Our  region  dearly  needs  that  role 
to  be  fulfilled,  given  the  catastrophic  and  fast-paced 
developments  taking  place  in  Syria.  The  international 
community,  represented  by  the  United  Nations  and 
its  organs  and  bodies  entrusted  with  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  is  called  upon 
to  unify  its  position  with  a  view  to  putting  an  end  to 
the  humanitarian  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people  and 
finding  a  political  solution  to  the  crisis  that  will  end 
the violence and bloodshed, preserve the unity of Syria 
and the cohesion of its people, and spare the region as a 
whole serious repercussions that could spill far beyond 
the borders of Syria. 
The  United  Nations  must 
responsibilities 
therefore  shoulder 
its 
to  protect  unarmed  civilians 
without  allowing  the  Organization’s  procedures  and 
mechanisms  to  impede  its  ability  to  prevent  crimes 
against  humanity  from  being  committed.  It  must  set 
aside  narrow  geopolitical  interests  and  proceed  to 
attain the supreme goal of protecting civilians in armed 
conf licts  and  wars.  My  Government  welcomes  the 
appointment  of  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi  as  Joint  Special 
Representative  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League 
of  Arab  States,  and  wishes  him  every  success  in  his 
endeavours  to  achieve  the  legitimate  demands  of  the 
brotherly Syrian people.
On  the  basis  of  the  same  humanitarian  principle, 
we  should  also  stand  by  the  Rohingya  Muslims  in 
Myanmar  in  their  ordeal  and  provide  them  with 
assistance and support while providing good counsel to 
the Government of Myanmar in that regard.
Although 
the  Syrian  crisis 
is  preoccupying 
the  international  community  today,  the  Palestinian 
question remains the core issue for the Arab States and 
the international community. The Kingdom of Bahrain 
believes that it is imperative to redouble efforts towards 
a  just,  durable  and  comprehensive  solution,  notably 
through the creation of an independent Palestinian State, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  conformity  with 
the relevant United Nations resolutions, the Arab Peace 
Initiative and the decisions of the international Quartet. 
We are extremely concerned at attempts to violate the 
sanctity of the holy sites in Al-Quds Al-Sharif and the 
attempts to alter their identity. 
the 
We  call  on 
international  community 
to 
support  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine,  who  is  striving  relentlessly  to  defend  the 
cause of his occupied country and to achieve a just and 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  region.  We  therefore  urge 
the international community to demand that Israel cease 
its  settlement  activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  and  dismantle  settlements  that  jeopardize 
the  chances  for  peace.  We  also  stress  the  need  to 
implement the relevant General Assembly and Security 
Council resolutions by putting an end to ongoing Israeli 
violations and aggression, and to ensure the principles 
of international legitimacy, notably the Fourth Geneva 
Convention  of  1949,  which  prohibits  any  geographical 
or  demographic  alteration  in  occupied  territories.  We 
look forward to peace in our region, which would serve 
the interests of all its peoples.
One tenet of our foreign policy is to enhance peace 
and  security  in  the  region.  In  that  regard,  Bahrain 
reaffirms  its  unf linching  position  in  favour  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. That will 
be  possible  only  by  compelling  Israel  to  implement 
relevant  international  resolutions,  to  adhere  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
and to subject its nuclear facilities to the supervision of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 
Moreover,  we  stress  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran must fulfil its commitments in full and transparent 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA.  Indeed,  nuclear  weapons 
constitute a serious threat to peace and security in the 
entire region, and various parties must therefore assume 
their  responsibility  for  peace  and  security  and  refrain 
from the language of intimidation, threats and counter-
threats that have recently dominated our region.
In  that  regard,  we  stress  the  importance  of  an 
excellent  preparation  process  for  the  2012  conference 
to  be  held  pursuant  to  the  agreement  reached  in  the 
Final  Document  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
32 
12-52349
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.  I)). 
We  also  reaffirm  that  the  principle  of  establishing 
a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  in  no 
way precludes the right of all nations to access nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  provided  that  they 
do  so  in  full  transparency  and  abide  by  the  IAEA 
guarantee system.
While the States members of the Gulf Cooperation 
Council  (GCC)  have  extended  their  hand  to  their 
neighbour,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  they  have 
unfortunately  found  no  positive  Iranian  response  that 
could facilitate confidence-building, peace and security. 
On  the  contrary,  we  have  had  to  endure  constant 
interference in our internal affairs from our neighbour. 
Recently, Iran has reiterated menacing threats to GCC 
Member  States,  in  contradiction  of  the  spirit  of  good-
neighbourliness, thus generating tension and distrust in 
the region. More importantly, the Kingdom of Bahrain 
reaffirms  the  need,  either  through  direct  negotiations 
or  through  arbitration  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  to  resolve  the  problem  of  the  three  United 
Arab Emirates’ islands of Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and 
Lesser Tunb that are occupied by the Islamic Republic 
of Iran.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  brotherly  Yemen, 
we  are  aware  of  the  need  for  a  successful  transitional 
period  in  order  to  achieve  security  and  stability 
in  the  country,  in  line  with  the  agreement  reached 
within  the  framework  of  the  GCC  initiative  and  its 
implementation  mechanisms.  We  welcome  the  steps 
taken  by  Mr.  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour, 
President of the Republic of Yemen, to launch a national 
Yemeni dialogue, and we are fully confident of his wise 
leadership  of  Yemen  during  this  critical  transitional 
period, so that the aspirations of the Yemeni people can 
be realized.
In  that  regard,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  welcomes 
the  convening  of  the  donors  conference  for  Yemen, 
held  in  Riyadh  and  sponsored  by  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi Arabia, and fully supports the recommendations 
and  conclusions  agreed  upon  with  a  view  to  building 
a  brighter  future  for  brotherly  Yemen,  as  well  as  the 
outcome of the meeting of the Friends of Yemen, held 
today in New York.
We  also  reaffirm  the  unwavering,  principled  and 
consistent  position  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  in 
solidarity with the Kingdom of Morocco, regarding the 
preservation of the territorial integrity of Morocco and 
A/67/PV.14
the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Moroccan  Sahara  issue 
pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions.
In  regard  to  the  current  political  developments 
in  Somalia,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  welcomes  the 
election  of  Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud  as  the  new 
President  of  the  Somali  Republic  in  the  context  of 
the  transitional  process.  We  call  on  the  international 
community  to  offer  its  support  and  assistance  in  the 
restoration of peace and security in the country and in 
the  preservation  of  Somalia’s  territorial  integrity  and 
political independence. We commend the efforts of the 
Somali  Government,  together  with  the  international 
community, to restore peace, stability and cooperation, 
particularly in combating piracy in the Horn of Africa.
We  have  recently  witnessed  ugly  insults  and 
denigration  addressed 
to  our  beloved  Prophet 
Muhammad  —  peace  be  upon  him,  his  family  and 
his  companions.  A  typical  example  of  that  is  the 
shameful video that the Kingdom of Bahrain condemns 
in  the  strongest  terms,  and  which  led  to  violence 
and  destruction  around  the  world.  Our  concern  is 
compounded by the unjustified aggression perpetrated 
against  the  diplomatic  mission  of  the  United  States 
of  America  in  Benghazi  that  killed  Ambassador 
Christopher  Stevens  and  a  number  of 
innocent 
American diplomats, in f lagrant violation of the Vienna 
Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961.
In  spite  of 
these  serious  developments  and 
repercussions,  we  should  not  let  that  gloomy  scene 
overshadow  the  spectacle  of  the  crowds  that  took  to 
the streets in Libya the following day to condemn that 
abominable  attack  on  the  American  mission.  We  are 
all  responsible,  as  peoples  and  nations,  to  teach  each 
other about respect. We need to redouble our efforts to 
prevent the recurrence of insults to religions, prophets 
and  other  religious  symbols  as  Allah  commands  us  in 
the Holy Koran: 
“We  have  created  you  from  male  and  female 
and  made  you  peoples  and  tribes  that  you  may 
know  one  another.  Indeed,  the  most  noble  of  you 
in  the  sight  of  Allah  is  the  most  righteous  of  you. 
Indeed,  Allah  is  all-knowing  and  acquainted” 
(The Holy Koran, XLIX:13). 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  is  among  the  first  to 
have  achieved  most  of  the  Millenium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) before the prescribed time frame in the 
fields  of  education,  the  empowerment  of  women,  the 
expansion of social security to vulnerable groups, equal 
12-52349
33
A/67/PV.14
opportunities for men and women, and the enhancement 
of health services, notably for children. Therefore, the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  occupies  an  advanced  position 
at  the  global  level,  as  ref lected  in  the  United  Nations 
Human  Development  Reports  issued  during  the  past 
few years.
If the international community is to overcome the 
challenges  facing  Member  States,  we  must  be  able  to 
fully  shoulder  their  responsibilities,  especially  as  the 
deadline for achieving the MDGs is approaching. We are 
only three and a half years from that deadline. We have 
to redouble our efforts and review our policies in order 
to  enhance  national  and  regional  capacities  to  avoid 
imbalances  and  to  overcome  challenges.  According 
to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  Report  2012, 
and  notwithstanding  some  negative  indicators,  child 
mortality  has  been  decreasing  across  the  world,  the 
percentage of those living in extreme poverty has been 
halved, and over 89 per cent of the world’s population 
now has access to safe drinking water.
in  many  countries,  and 
However,  it  seems  that  other  objectives  are  still 
unattainable 
inequalities 
continue to rise in some areas such as public health that 
remains dismal and a cause for great concern. That also 
applies to the scarcity of water resources. We therefore 
cannot  use  the  global  financial  crisis  as  an  excuse 
for  reneging  on  our  financial  commitments  to  those 
countries in greatest need.
In  that  regard,  Bahrain  welcomes  the  outcome 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, as well as the Secretary-General’s vision 
with regard to sustainable development. Much remains 
to  be  done,  however,  to  ensure  that  people  across  the 
world not only have access to the most basic needs, but 
that  they  have  the  tools  to  maintain  them  over  time. 
We must acknowledge that sustainability is not merely 
a  response  to  needs  but  rather  a  principal  element  of 
human dignity.
To conclude, I believe that the formidable changes 
and  challenges  our  world  faces  today present  valuable 
opportunities  that  we  can  exploit  through  wisdom, 
courage, patience and joint action. We must work with 
all our capacity to address the elements that divide us, 
particularly backwardness, extremism and isolationism. 
At  the  same  time,  we  must  continue  to  lend  a  hand 
to  those  most  in  need.  We  must  use  objectivity  and 
honesty to challenge immobility and prejudice in order 
to achieve the progress, dignity and prosperity to which 
our peoples aspire.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to Mr. Edouard Niankoye Lama, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and for Guineans Living Abroad of 
the Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Lama  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf 
the  delegation  of  Guinea,  which  I  have  the  great 
honour to lead, I would like first of all to congratulate 
the  President  on  his  election  to  guide  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session at a time 
when  our  Organization  is  facing  multiple  challenges. 
That  mark  of  trust  placed  in  him  is  a  vibrant  tribute 
to  his  country,  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  as  well  as  to 
his  recognized  diplomatic  qualities,  which  augur  well 
for  the  success  of  our  deliberations.  His  predecessor, 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, of Qatar, deserves our 
gratitude and thanks for his excellent work. I should also 
like  to  express  my  Government’s  highest  appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
dynamism  and  determination  in  the  exercise  of  his 
mandate.
The 
theme  of 
this  session,  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means”, lies at the very heart of 
the uncertainty that weighs on the future of humanity. 
The  emergence  of  new  forms  of  violence  at  the  hands 
of numerous actors and non-State groups, international 
terrorism, and above all the proliferation of small arms 
and light weapons, all constitute grounds for concern. 
While  inter-State  conf licts  have  decreased  in  recent 
years,  intra-State  conf licts  in  certain  regions  of  the 
world have led to political instability, general insecurity 
and  human  tragedies,  with  their  attendant  economic, 
social and environmental crises.
It follows that the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
as  a  fundamental  principle  of  international  relations, 
is  becoming  more  indispensable  than  ever  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  That 
principle requires sustainable preventive strategies and 
concerted efforts on the part of regional and subregional 
organizations  along  with  international  development 
partners.  The  critical  need  for  States  to  promote  and 
defend  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations Charter and of international law is the bulwark 
par  excellence  against  attempts  against  the  territorial 
integrity and sovereignty of States.
34 
12-52349
International  mediation  as  a  means  of  prevention 
or a way to end violence through dialogue, along with 
negotiation  and  the  achievement  of  final  agreements, 
should  be  given  pride  of  place.  In  that  context,  the 
Guinean  delegation  encourages  the  rapid  deployment 
of  mediators  and  experts.  It  also  wishes  to  offer  its 
emphatic  support  to  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative 
encouraging the role of women in the mediation process.
through  capacity-building  and 
In  developing  States,  especially 
in  Africa, 
mediation  and  settlement  mechanisms  should  be 
strengthened 
the 
allocation  of  sufficient  resources  to  assure  a  holistic 
and  effective  approach.  The  institutionalization  at  the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels  of  a  culture 
of  peace  that  includes  dialogue  between  civilizations 
and religious tolerance is the irreversible path towards 
a world of solidarity and peace.
In  West  Africa,  where  the  northern  part  of  our 
neighbour,  Mali,  has  been  occupied  for  months 
by  terrorist  and  rebel  groups,  the  strengthening  of 
democratic institutions and the restoration of territorial 
integrity  constitute  the  primary  challenges  of  note. 
Guinea  reiterates  its  support  for  the  initiatives  of  the 
Economic  Community  of  Western  African  States  and 
the African Union in their search for a solution to that 
crisis, whose effects on the countries of the subregion 
could well be devastating. In that regard, Guinea joins 
the  Government  of  Mali  in  urgently  demanding  the 
Security Council to deploy an international contingent 
to restore the territorial integrity of that brother country. 
In  Guinea-Bissau,  the  consolidation  of  peace  and 
stability  requires  the  restoration  of  all  democratic 
institutions. With respect to the Great Lakes countries, 
we  support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
and  the  Central  African  Economic  and  Monetary 
Community,  which  seek  to  restore  peace  and  security 
in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  which  is  fundamental  for  the  stability  of  that 
country and the region.
In the Horn of Africa, there has been encouraging 
progress with respect to the peace process in Somalia. 
The  implementation  of  a  new  federal  Parliament,  the 
adoption of a new interim Constitution and the election 
on  10  September  of  Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud 
as  President  of  the  Republic,  all  demonstrate  the 
commitment of the Somali people, the Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development,  the  African  Union  and 
the  United  Nations  to  support  peace,  democracy  and 
A/67/PV.14
reconciliation  in  that  country.  The  Government  of 
Guinea would like, at this time, to express its warmest 
congratulations to the African Union Military Observer 
Mission in Somalia.
Guinea  also  supports  the  ongoing  negotiations 
between the Governments of the Sudan and South Sudan 
regarding  post-independence  issues,  in  accordance 
with  the  African  Union  road  map  of  24  April  2011, 
as  approved  by  the  Security  Council  in  its  resolution 
2046 (2012). We welcome the agreement reached by the 
parties on sharing petroleum revenue.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  restoration  of  lasting 
peace  in  the  region  must  of  necessity  depend  on  the 
creation  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State,  living 
in  peace  and  security  side  by  side  with  the  State  of 
Israel.  The  situation  in  Syria  increasingly  cries  out  to 
the  international  community.  We  urge  the  concerned 
parties to spare no efforts to halt the violence, protect 
the  population  and  restore  peace.  My  Government 
reaffirms  its  support  for  the  declaration  on  Syria  of 
the recent extraordinary session of the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation.
The adoption on 21 June of the outcome document 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20) 
offered  the  international  community  an  opportunity 
to  renew  its  political  commitment  to  sustainable 
development in all its dimensions — economic, social 
and  environmental.  The  priority  of  the  international 
community today should be the effective implementation 
of  the  commitments  made  to  take  into  account  the 
legitimate  concerns  of  all  countries,  in  particular  in 
Africa.  To  that  end,  Guinea  remains  convinced  that 
defining  a  post-2015  development  agenda  must  take 
into  account  the  complementarity  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
the  sustainable 
development  goals  resulting  from  Rio+20  in  order  to 
ensure maximum benefit from the subsequent synergy.
In consideration of Africa’s post-2015 development 
agenda,  at  the  proposal  of  my  country,  the  fifth  Joint 
Annual  Meetings  of  the  African  Union  Conference  of 
Ministers  of  Economy  and  Finance  and  the  Economic 
Commission for Africa Conference of African Ministers 
of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, held 
in Addis Ababa in March, and the seventeenth session of 
the High-level Committee on South-South Cooperation, 
held  in  New  York  in  May,  agreed  to  promote  South-
South and triangular coalition.
12-52349
35
A/67/PV.14
South-South  and  triangular  cooperation  is  now 
becoming a new modality for international cooperation 
in  order  to  deal  with  the  debt  and  financial  market 
crises  and  the  lack  of  traditional  official  development 
assistance  and  implement  international  development 
goals, such as the MDGs and the Istanbul Programme 
of  Action,  among  others.  From  this  rostrum,  I  would 
like  to  launch  an  urgent  appeal  to  all  Member  States 
and  development  partners  to  support  that  innovative 
initiative of solidarity by the international community 
towards Africa. The continent remains the weakest link 
in the international development mechanism despite its 
vast  potential  and  its  economic  performance  in  recent 
years.
Since the election in 2010 of President Alpha Condé 
to  the  highest  office,  the  Government  has  undertaken 
an  vast  programme  of  democratization  and  political, 
institutional,  economic  and  social  reforms.  At  the 
political  level,  a  law  on  the  fair  reconstitution  of  the 
Independent  National  Electoral  Commission,  adopted 
by  the  National  Transition  Council,  was  approved  by 
the President. We hope that that will open the way for 
the  holding  of  legislative  elections  by  the  end  of  the 
year.
like 
I  would 
to  reiterate 
the  Government’s 
commitment  to  continuing  to  promote  human  rights 
and  to  ensure  public  freedoms.  To  meet  the  various 
challenges  facing  the  country  following  the  2010 
presidential  election,  the  Government  has  submitted 
to the Peacebuilding Commission a request for support 
and assistance in three priority areas, namely, national 
reconciliation  and  unity,  security  sector  reform  and 
youth and women’s employment. 
resulted 
Those  priorities 
in  a  statement  of 
mutual  commitment,  adopted  here  in  New  York  on 
23  September  2011  in  the  presence  of  our  Head  of 
State. A year later, the implementation of those mutual 
commitments has produced encouraging results thanks 
to the significant efforts of the Government, the United 
Nations  and  other  partners.  I  would  especially  like  to 
welcome  the  significant  progress  in  security  sector 
reform, in particular the biometric census of troops and 
the retirement of nearly 4,000 soldiers.
In order to build on those achievements, we believe 
that  Guinea  and  its  partners  should  benefit  from  the 
momentum  and  trust  created  by  those  initial  steps  to 
continue  the  reform  by  extending  it  to  all  components 
of  the  security  sector,  in  particular  the  police  and  the 
judiciary.  We  are  convinced  that  strengthening  the 
security and stability of the country and of the subregion 
depend on that. 
In  the  economic  and  social  field,  there  has  been 
significant  progress  in  combating  the  macroeconomic 
imbalances and in improving prospects for growth and 
people’s living conditions.
to  reach 
Those  policies  enabled  Guinea 
the 
completion point of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries 
Initiative  a  few  days  ago,  following  meetings  of  the 
Executive  Boards  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
and the World Bank. The subsequent foreign debt relief 
will  make  it  possible  to  release  significant  financial 
resources  to  investment  in  basic  social  services  to 
alleviate  poverty.  The  normalization  of  relations  with 
creditors, restoring the State’s credibility, will promote 
access  to  new  foreign  financial  resources.  However, 
the  Government  of  Guinea  is  aware  that  reaching  the 
completion  point  is  only  a  first  step  and  that  many 
challenges  must  be  overcome  to  launch  the  country 
on  the  path  of  sustainable  growth.  Our  objective  is  to 
rapidly  raise  the  country  to  the  ranks  of  an  emerging 
economy 
its  natural 
resources.
the  exploitation  of 
through 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Guinea’s 
firm  support  for  efforts 
the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council so as to strengthen 
the  effectiveness  and  democratic  governance  of  our 
universal Organization.
to  reform 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rafael  Roncagliolo  Orbegoso, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Roncagliolo  Orbegoso  (Peru)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  President  Ollanta 
Humala Tasso and the Government and people of Peru, 
I  wish  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  his  election  to  lead  this  session,  during 
which  we  are  very  honoured  to  support  him  as  one  of 
the  Vice-Presidents.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
him on his initiative to make the pacific settlement of 
disputes  the  central  topic  of  our  debate.  The  pacific 
settlement  of  disputes  is  the  fundamental  way  to 
eradicate  the  scourge  of  war,  which,  in  turn,  is  the 
main objective of the Organization and its Charter. The 
commitment  not  to  resort  to  the  threat  or  use  of  force 
is the cornerstone of international peace and security.
Peru reafﬁ rms its ongoing and resolute commitment 
to  the  principles  that  inspired  the  birth  of  the  United 
36 
12-52349
Nations:  multilateralism,  the  pursuit  of  international 
peace  and  security,  solidarity  and  cooperation.  In 
that  context,  Peru  solemnly  affirms  its  continuing 
commitment to the pacific settlement of disputes.
In  that  task,  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  as 
the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
plays  a  fundamental  and,  fortunately,  increasing  role, 
in  particular  in  Latin  America.  Peru  reaffirms  its  full 
respect for the work of the Court and calls on States to 
turn to it to resolve their differences and to respect and 
comply with its decisions, pursuant to Chapter XIV of 
the United Nations Charter.
The  123  disputes  that  had  been  submitted  to  the 
Court  as  at  December  2011  are  proof  of  the  fact  that 
the  international  community  is  actively  committed  to 
the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes,  to  diplomacy  and 
not  to  war.  Recourse  to  the  Court,  far  from  being  an 
unfriendly  act,  is  an  eloquent  testimony  to  our  desire 
for peace.
We  reiterate  our  faith  in  multilateralism  and 
deplore the existence of situations to which, to date, our 
Organization  has  not  been  able  to  find  solutions.  The 
latest and most painful one of these, due to the high toll 
it is taking in human lives, is the crisis in Syria. Peru 
condemns the use of force and violence in that country, 
and  calls  once  again  on  all  parties  to  the  conf lict  to 
immediately  cease  hostilities  and  to  initiate  a  genuine 
process of dialogue and peacemaking, in the framework 
of respect for the independence and sovereignty of that 
country  and  for  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms 
of its citizens. 
We support the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-
General and the Arab League to find a negotiated and 
peaceful solution to the conf lict. We would encourage 
the mission of the Joint Special Representative, Lakhdar 
Brahimi, to continue its efforts.
However, that is not the only outstanding issue. Peru 
deems  regrettable  the  fact  that  in  more  than  60  years 
our  Organization  has  not  been  able  to  find  a  solution 
to  the  legitimate  demand  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
establish  an  independent  State  and  to  live  in  peace 
within  secure  and  internationally  recognized  borders. 
Peru  recognizes  the  Palestinian  State,  has  established 
diplomatic  relations  with  it  and,  based  on  Peru’s 
historical position since 1947 and on international law, 
supports its admission as a full Member of the United 
Nations,  without  detriment  to  Israel’s  right  to  its  own 
security.
A/67/PV.14
Peru  also  condemns  once  again 
the  unfair, 
illegitimate  and 
financial  and 
commercial  blockade  imposed  against  Cuba,  to  which 
the Organization has been unable to put an end despite 
the countless condemnations from the Assembly.
illegal  economic, 
We  also  regret  that  it  has  not  yet  been  possible 
to  find  a  solution  to  the  nearly  200-year-old  dispute 
between Argentina and the United Kingdom regarding 
the  Malvinas  Islands.  We  call  upon  the  parties  once 
again  to  initiate  a  dialogue  leading  to  a  negotiated 
solution.
To  overcome  these  and  other  shortcomings  and 
deficiencies  of  the  current  international  order,  it  is 
urgent to adopt measures within our own Organization, 
the  most  urgent  one  probably  being  a  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  aimed  at  making  it  a  more  efficient, 
transparent, democratic and representative forum. The 
United Nations must ref lect the realities of the twenty-
first century and update the current architecture, which 
remains best suited to the post-war world of 1945. The 
current scenario requires that developing countries take 
greater responsibility for preserving peace and security. 
We deplore the limited progress made in negotiations on 
this issue. We consider that the time is ripe to relaunch 
the  reform  process,  and  we  call  upon  Member  States 
to spare no effort in bringing this process to a speedy 
conclusion.
As  a  concrete  sign  of  Peru’s  contribution  to 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  it  was  my  pleasure  to 
deposit  yesterday  the  instruments  of  ratification  of 
the Convention for the Protection of All Persons from 
Enforced Disappearance and the Convention on Cluster 
Munitions, as well as the amendments to the Montreal 
Protocol regarding ozone-depleting substances. We call 
on all countries to accede to these instruments, which 
are  aimed  at  protecting  the  environment,  ensuring 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fighting  against  all 
forms of impunity. It is a moral duty to ensure that the 
perpetrators  of  serious  crimes  against  humanity  are 
duly tried and punished.
The  rule  of  law  also  requires  more  inclusive 
societies.  Civil,  political  and  social  citizenship  must 
encompass  everyone  equally.  Accordingly,  Peru  has 
incorporated into its national legislation the provisions 
of  Convention  169  of 
the  International  Labour 
Organization.  Since  Peru  is  the  first  country  to  adopt 
these  measures,  its  indigenous  peoples  will  be  able  to 
fully exercise their rights and ensure that all investors 
12-52349
37
A/67/PV.14
have  obtained  the  requisite  social  licence,  within  the 
framework of State powers.
In  spite  of  all  of  those  efforts,  new  and  diverse 
threats to the rule of law have emerged. Transnational 
organized  crime,  funded  mainly  by  drug  trafficking, 
today constitutes the main threat to democratic societies. 
The magnitude of this problem requires, more than ever 
before,  combined  efforts  with  an  integrated  vision  of 
shared responsibility at the global level.
It is for that reason that this past June Peru hosted 
the  International  Conference  of  Ministers  of  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Heads  of  Specialized  National  Agencies 
against the World Drug Problem, in an attempt to resume 
a political dialogue that had been interrupted for nearly 
20  years.  That  valuable  opportunity  proved  to  us  that 
amid  our  diversity  there  are  many  more  convergences 
than discrepancies, and that the will exists to intensify 
cooperation in this area. 
We are confident that this first step will be further 
complemented  by  new  initiatives  that  will  guarantee 
greater  exchange  of  information,  a  better  allocation 
of  resources,  and  better  results  in  reducing  the  supply 
and demand of narcotic drugs as well as in the field of 
alternative development, a topic that will be addressed 
next  November  at  an  international  conference  to  be 
hosted by Peru.
That  Peruvian  initiative  on  the  fight  against 
drugs  is  not  the  only  ref lection  of  our  commitment 
to  multilateralism  and  integration.  Since  June,  Peru 
has  held  the  presidency  pro  tempore  of  the  Union  of 
South  American  Nations  (UNASUR).  We  want  to  see 
democracy  consolidated  throughout  South  America. 
Many  lives  have  been  lost  during  the  long  journey 
towards consolidating democracy in our region. For that 
reason,  we  will  not  be  deterred  by  any  circumstance 
that may threaten that undertaking. 
In  our  capacity  as  President  Pro  Tempore  of 
UNASUR, we reiterate that democracy will remain an 
essential  requirement  for  integration  and  cooperation 
in  South  America.  We  also  hope  that  South  America 
will  become  a  zone  of  peace,  without  exclusions.  It 
is  already  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone,  and  we  will 
work  tirelessly  so  that  it  can  soon  be  a  zone  free  of 
anti-personnel  mines.  The  money  currently  spent  on 
arms  must  be  redirected  towards  development  and 
overcoming poverty and inequality.
Peru is peace-loving country and a staunch defender 
of  disarmament.  At  the  international  level,  we  are 
party  to  the  main  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
treaties.  Furthermore,  Peru  hosts  the  headquarters 
of  the  Regional  Centre  for  Peace,  Disarmament  and 
Development  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean. 
We  promote  confidence-building  measures  with 
neighbouring  countries,  especially  measures  aimed  at 
conventional  disarmament  to  favour  the  development 
of our peoples. In that context, we cannot but welcome 
with enthusiasm and high expectations the efforts made 
by  the  Government  of  President  Santos  Calderón  of 
Colombia to open the path of dialogue in order to end 
long years of violence, as justly claimed by the people 
of  Colombia.  Peru  expresses  its  best  wishes  for  the 
success of that initiative.
From  the  South  American  perspective,  we  also 
aspire to build bridges with all the regions of the world. 
In such a spirit, Peru will in a few days welcome heads 
of State and Government of South American and Arab 
countries  to  the  third  Summit  of  South  American  and 
Arab Countries. The Summit has become an important 
instrument in bringing the two regions closer together 
and,  through  it,  its  member  countries  have  opened  a 
channel  for  dialogue  and  political  understanding  at 
the  highest  level.  That  will  afford  us  the  opportunity 
to  develop  common  interests  in  areas  such  as  trade, 
investment and culture, all for the benefit of our peoples.
Thanks  to  appropriate  macroeconomic  policies, 
Peru has continued to grow, reaching a growth rate in 
2011  of  6.92  per  cent  and  a  5.7  per  cent  average  rate 
over the past 10 years. Despite those good results, wide 
sectors of the population do not fully participate in the 
benefits of economic growth. Hence, it is time to ensure 
growth  with  social  inclusion,  as  President  Ollanta 
Humala  Tasso  has  pointed  out  since  the  beginning  of 
his Administration. The new vision that Peru promotes 
is  oriented  towards  further  economic  growth  and 
democratic  stability  as  it  expands  and  maximizes 
social well-being and harmonizes productive activities 
with  environmental  preservation.  In  Peru’s  view, 
starting  with  the  Rio+20  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, 
the  post-2015 
development agenda must achieve a convergence of the 
processes  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  with 
the processes of the sustainable development goals. 
the  establishment  of 
Peru’s  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  is 
long-standing  and  deep.  Allow  me  to  conclude  by 
honouring here to three prominent Peruvian diplomats 
who  have  held  the  highest  responsibilities  within  the 
Organization  —  Ambassador  Javier  Pérez  de  Cuellar, 
38 
12-52349
Secretary-General  from  1982  to  1991;  Ambassador 
Victor  Andrés  Belaúnde,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its fourteenth session, from 1959 to 1960; 
and  Ambassador  José  Luis  Bustamante  y  Rivero, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  from 
1967  to  1969.  The  recognition  and  responsibilities 
that  those  individuals  received  from  the  international 
community show that Peru has always been committed 
to  peace  and  to  the  observance  of  international  law.  I 
am pleased to see the Permanent Representative of Peru 
presiding over the debate this evening.
As  a  co-founder  of  some  of  the  main  regional 
forums,  such  as  the  Andean  Community,  the  Union 
of  South  American  Nations  and  the  Community  of 
Latin American and Caribbean States, Peru has always 
been a standard-bearer for integration and for positive, 
respectful  relations  with  all  countries  of  the  world 
and, in particular, with the countries of our region and 
neighbouring countries. As a basis of that policy, Peru 
has  always  trusted  —  and  will  continue  to  place  its 
trust  —  in  the  strength  and  primacy  of  international 
law  and  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  It  is 
with  that  conviction  that  the  Government  of  President 
Ollanta Humala Tasso reiterates its staunch adherence 
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  shall 
now call on those representatives who wish to speak in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind delegations 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Today, 
in  the  Assembly,  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  notorious 
Israeli  regime  made  a  series  of  entirely  baseless 
allegations  against  my  country.  At  this  late  hour,  I  do 
not wish to take the precious time of my colleagues to 
reply  to  such  unfounded  statements,  which  I  will  not 
dignify with an answer other than to categorically reject 
them,  in  particular  regarding  the  nuclear  programme 
of  my  country,  which  is  exclusively  peaceful  and  in 
full  conformity  with  our  international  obligations  and 
undertaken  in  exercise  of  our  inalienable  right  to  use 
nuclear science and technology for peaceful purposes. 
I also do not wish to take the valuable time of my 
colleagues to explain the very well-known history and 
record of my country — a country that has no record of 
aggression in its centuries-long history; a country that 
A/67/PV.14
is party to all major international instruments banning 
the production and use of weapons of mass destruction, 
namely, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT),  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention 
and  the  Biological  Weapons  Convention,  and  that  is 
fully  committed  to  all  its  relevant  legal  obligations 
under  such  treaties;  a  country  that  is  proud  of  having 
proposed the idea of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the Middle East and that continues to strongly 
support  its  realization;  and  a  country  that  has  never 
been  involved  in  terrorist  activities  but  has  lost  more 
than 17,000 of its citizens, including nuclear scientists, 
to martyrdom at the hands of foreign-backed terrorists; 
a country that has been the main victim of the modern 
use of chemical weapons in nearly 600 attacks, which 
resulted  in  the  injury  or  martyrdom  of  more  than 
100,000  Iranian  citizens,  including  more  than  7,000 
injuries  among  civilians  stemming  from  nearly  30 
attacks on Iranian cities and villages. 
Likewise,  I  do  not  wish  to  refer  to  the  totally 
dark  record  of  the  Israeli  regime  in  ruthlessly  killing 
innocent women and children and committing genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  over  more 
than six decades. The 33-day war against Lebanon and 
the  22-day  barbaric  attack  on  Gaza,  together  with  its 
inhuman  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  are  only  a  few 
recent examples of such atrocities. 
Nor  do  I  wish  to  describe  the  dark  history  of 
terrorist  activities  committed  by  the  current  regime, 
whose roots are in terrorism, and which is the founding 
father  of  State  terrorism  as  used  in  the  recent  history 
of war.
What  I  would  like  to  bring  to  the  Assembly’s 
attention  is  only  a  very  small  part  of  the  dark  history 
of  this  regime,  namely,  its  record  of  non-compliance 
with  the  international  instrument  regulating  weapons 
of mass destruction (WMD) and its related obligations 
under  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  international 
law.  Not  only  is  the  Israeli  regime  the  only  non-party 
to  the  NPT  in  the  Middle  East,  but,  despite  repeated 
calls  from  the  international  community,  it  has  never 
intended  to  become  party  to  it.  The  worst  of  it  is  that 
in  a  statement  on  11  December  2006,  the  then  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Israeli  regime  admitted  its  position 
on  nuclear  weapons,  which,  as  has  been  repeatedly 
stated  by  the  120  States  members  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  “poses  a  serious  and  continuing  threat  to 
the security of their neighbours and other States”.
12-52349
39
A/67/PV.14
Taking  into  account  these  realities,  and  the  Final 
Document  of  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 
(NPT/CONF.2012/50  (Vol.1)),  adopted  by  consensus, 
189  States  party  to  the  NPT,  including  the  United 
States  and  other  significant  supporters  of  the  Zionist 
regime, unanimously appealed to that regime, by name, 
to accede to the NPT without conditions, and to put all 
its  clandestine  nuclear  activities  under  international 
safeguards.
Now  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  regime  has 
shamelessly  and  hypocritically  raised  an  outcry, 
and,  by  his  baseless  and  absurd  allegations  about  my 
country’s  exclusively  peaceful  nuclear  programmes, 
tried  to  abuse  the  tribune  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
distract  Member  States’  attention  from  the  danger  of 
its  nuclear  arsenals,  clandestine  nuclear  programme 
and  unsafeguarded  nuclear  facilities,  which  are  the 
only  source  of  threats  to  peace,  security  and  stability 
in  the  Middle  East  and  beyond.  Instead  of  making 
baseless  allegations  against  other  countries  in  the 
region, this regime must obey the repeated demands of 
the international community and accede promptly and 
without conditions to the NPT as a non-nuclear-weapon 
party, as well as to place all its nuclear-related facilities 
under the comprehensive International Atomic Energy 
Agency verification system.
The international community should also continue 
to exert all possible pressure on this regime, particularly 
during the upcoming 2012 NPT-related Conference on 
the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the 
Middle East, in order to force it to abide by international 
demands.  Similarly,  this  regime,  which  is  also  not  a 
party to WMD-related treaties other than the NPT, and 
which,  by  developing  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
tries  to  solve  its  inherent  legitimacy  problems,  must 
be compelled to comply fully with all its international 
obligations.
While  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  on  any 
pretext  is  a  grave  violation  of  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law,  as  well 
as  the  norms  of  international  relations,  the  officials 
of  the  Israeli  regime,  who,  rude  as  they  are,  threaten 
countries  in  the  region,  particularly  my  country,  with 
military  attack  on  a  daily  basis.  Iran  has  the  strength 
to  defend  itself,  and  reserves  its  full  right  to  retaliate 
with  full  force  against  any  attack.  At  the  same  time, 
the  international  community  should  live  up  to  its 
responsibilities and exert pressure on this regime to end 
all this irresponsible behaviour in a volatile region such 
as the Middle East.
Finally, for the second time in the recent history of 
the United Nations, today, in the General Assembly, an 
unfounded  and  imaginary  graph  was  used  to  justify  a 
threat against a founding Member of the Organization. 
It  is  worth  mentioning,  however,  in  our  increasingly 
interconnected world, and in the information age, it is 
hardly possible for nations to be fooled by such absurd 
devices.  It  is  evident  that  no  amount  of  slanderous 
deception or smear campaigning by the Zionist regime 
can obscure its dark history or divert attention from the 
reality.
Mr. Kodama (Japan): My delegation would like to 
exercise  its  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the  statement 
made by the representative of the People’s Republic of 
China on the issue of the Senkaku Islands.
In  his  address  in  the  general  debate  (A/67/PV.9), 
Mr.  Noda,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  stressed  that 
various international issues should be solved by reason 
rather  than  force.  He  has  also  repeatedly  pointed  out 
the  importance  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  is  one  of  the 
foundations  of  global  peace,  stability  and  prosperity, 
and that any attempt to achieve a country’s ideological 
aims or claims by the unilateral use of force or the threat 
of  force  is  inconsistent  with  the  fundamental  spirit  of 
the United Nations Charter.
The  Cabinet  of  the  Government  of  Japan  made  a 
decision  in  January  1895  to  formally  incorporate  the 
Senkaku  Islands  into  the  territory  of  Japan,  while  the 
island of Formosa and the islands appertaining or belong 
to it were ceded to Japan in accordance with the Treaty 
of  Shimonoseki,  signed  in  April  1895.  It  is  therefore 
clear at the outset that the assertion that Japan took the 
islands from China cannot logically stand. In any case, 
Japan  had  been  conducting  thorough  surveys  of  the 
Senkaku Islands since 1885. Those surveys confirmed 
that the Senkaku Islands were not only uninhabited but 
showed no trace of having been under China’s control. 
Based on that information, Japan formally incorporated 
the Senkaku Islands into its territory.
Japan  renounced  territorial  sovereignty  over  the 
island  of  Formosa  —  Taiwan  —  and  the  Pescadores, 
ceded  by  China  after  the  Sino-Japanese  war,  in 
accordance  with  article  2  (b)  of  the  San  Francisco 
Peace  Treaty.  It  was  made  clear,  however,  that  the 
Senkaku  Islands  were  not  included  with  Formosa 
and  the  Pescadores,  by  the  fact  that  the  United  States 
40 
12-52349
of  America  actually  exercised  administrative  rights 
over  the  Senkaku  Islands,  as  part  of  the  Nansei  Shoto 
southwest  islands,  in  accordance  with  article  3  of  the 
Peace  Treaty,  and  the  islands  were  explicitly  included 
in  the  areas  whose  administrative  rights  reverted  to 
Japan in 1972.
It  was  only  in  the  1970s  that  the  Government  of 
China  and  the  Taiwanese  authorities  began  making 
their own assertions of territorial sovereignty over the 
Senkaku  Islands,  which  are  part  of  Japan’s  inherent 
territory.  Until  then  they  had  never  expressed  any 
objections to Japan, nor did they protest the fact that the 
islands were included in the area over which the United 
States  exercised  administrative  rights  in  accordance 
with  article  3  of  the  San  Francisco  Peace  Treaty.  The 
posture of simply attributing this difference of opinion 
between  the  two  countries  to  the  past  war  is  not  just 
unconvincing  and  unproductive;  it  is  also  a  way  to 
evade the essence of the issue.
Mr.  Li  Baodong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
On  the  question  of  the  Diaoyu  islands,  the  Japanese 
representative once again brazenly distorted history and 
resorted to spurious, fallacious arguments that defy all 
reason and logic to justify their aggression of Chinese 
territory. Minister for Foreign Affairs Mr. Yang Jiechi 
reiterated China’s firm position on the Diaoyu Dao issue 
in the statement he made to the General Assembly. That 
position is consistent and clear-cut. 
The  Diaoyu  islands  and  their  affiliated  islands 
have  been  an  integral  part  of  China’s  territory  since 
ancient  times,  and  China  has  indisputable  historical 
and  jurisprudential  evidence  to  support  that  claim. 
Japan waged an expansionist war of aggression against 
China at the end of the nineteenth century. In the same 
way that other colonial countries grabbed and occupied 
the  land  of  many  countries  in  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin 
America, Japan stole Taiwan and its affiliated islands, 
including the Diaoyu islands, from China through that 
war and began its colonial rule over them. 
During  the  Second  World  War,  China,  the  United 
States  and  the  United  Kingdom  issued  the  Cairo 
Declaration,  which  clearly  stipulated  that  one  of  the 
purposes  of  the  three  countries  in  fighting  that  war 
was to make sure that all the territories that Japan had 
stolen  from  the  Chinese  would  be  restored  to  China. 
The Potsdam Declaration and the Japanese Instrument 
of  Surrender  issued  in  1945  further  confirmed  that 
Japan, as a defeated country, would have to honour its 
A/67/PV.14
international  obligations  in  good  faith,  one  of  which 
was  to  return  to  China  all  the  territories,  including 
the  Diaoyu  islands,  that  Japan  had  stolen.  However, 
despite the many years that have gone by, the Japanese 
Government still clings to its obsolete colonial mindset, 
breaches  its  international  obligations  time  and  again, 
and attempts to continue to occupy the Diaoyu islands. 
island  purchase  by 
The  recent  so-called 
the 
Government  is  no  different  than  money  laundering. 
Its purpose is to legitimize its stealing and occupation 
of  Chinese  territory  through  illegal  means  and  to 
confuse  international  public  opinion  and  deceive  the 
people of the world. Japan’s action constitutes a serious 
encroachment  upon  China’s  sovereignty,  with  Japan 
intending to continue its occupation and legitimize the 
fruits  of  its  colonial  policy.  It  is  an  open  denial  of  the 
outcomes  of  the  victory  of  the  world  anti-fascist  war 
and  a  grave  challenge  to  the  post-war  international 
order and the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations. 
Any  illegal  act,  no  matter  how  it  is  packaged,  is 
illegal  in  nature  and  never  generates  rights.  That  is  a 
basic  principle  of  international  law.  Japan’s  act  falls 
into that category and is utterly illegal and void. It will 
never change the fact that the Diaoyu islands are part of 
China’s territory, nor will it ever shake China’s resolve 
to  safeguard  its  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty 
over  the  Diaoyu  islands  and  their  affiliated  islands. 
The  Government  and  the  people  of  China  will  never 
waver in their will and determination to uphold China’s 
territorial integrity and sovereignty. 
China is capable of safeguarding the integrity of its 
territory. The Chinese Government urges the Japanese 
side to put an immediate halt to all acts that undermine 
China’s territorial integrity and sovereignty.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  There  is  no  doubt  that  the 
Senkaku  islands  are  an  inherent  territory  of  Japan, 
based  on  historical  fact  and  international  law.  Indeed, 
the Senkaku islands are clearly under Japan’s legitimate 
control.  China’s  assertions  have  no  grounds  at  all.  In 
any  case,  there  exists  no  territorial  sovereignty  issue 
to  be  resolved  with  respect  to  the  Senkaku  islands.  I 
refrain  from  entering  into  any  more  detailed  rebuttal 
of the statement made by the delegation of the People’s 
Republic of China. The position of the Government of 
Japan on the issue is as stated previously.
Mr. Li Baodong (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
firmly  opposes  the  statement  made  by  the  Japanese 
12-52349
41
A/67/PV.14
representative,  who  not  only  feels  no  guilt  for  Japan’s 
history  of  aggression  and  colonialism,  but  instead 
makes  remarks  that  do  not  hold  water  at  all.  China  is 
strongly opposed to such a position. 
Japan’s  so-called  nationalization  of  the  Diaoyu 
islands  is  based  purely  on  the  logic  of  thieves.  At  the 
end of the nineteenth century, Japan stole large chunks 
of territory from China, including the Diaoyu islands, 
through a colonial war of aggression. We are now in the 
twenty-first century, but Japan continues to hold on to 
its obsolete colonial mentality in an attempt to exercise 
long-term occupation of islands that it stole from China. 
The  entire  1.3  billion  Chinese  people  have  expressed 
strong indignation against that state of affairs and will 
firmly fight against such practices. 
The  Japanese  act  is  a  rejection  of  international 
efforts  to  end  colonialism,  an  outright  denial  of  the 
victorious defeat of Japan in the world anti-fascist war 
and  a  grave  challenge  to  the  post-war  international 
order  and  international  law.  China  is  firmly  opposed 
to  that  position.  China  will  continue  to  take  resolute 
and  forceful  measures  to  unswervingly  safeguard 
Chinese  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty.  The 
current situation has been caused by the Japanese side 
singlehandedly. Japan must respect history, face reality, 
discard illusions, refrain from daydreaming, honour its 
international  obligations,  take  concrete  measures  to 
redress  its  mistakes  and  stop  all  acts  that  violate  and 
undermine China’s sovereignty.
The meeting rose at 11.20 p.m.
42 
12-52349
