United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
20th plenary meeting
Monday, 1 October 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.20
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
law allows us not only the means to resolve differences 
but  also  the  substance  on  which  to  build  better 
understanding.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Albert 
del  Rosario,  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of the Philippines.
Mr.  Del  Rosario  (Philippines):  Allow  me  to 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  and  to  offer 
the steadfast support of my country for his term.
Each year we renew our commitment to our United 
Nations and to the Charter that enshrines, in the plainest 
of language, our hopes and aspirations for a progressive, 
peaceful  and  secure  world.  Our  Organization  and  our 
Charter have survived and thrived through dark times 
and great adversity. The letter and spirit of the Charter 
remain alive and vibrant in a constantly changing world. 
Our work continues to be important, even in the face of 
doubts about the relevance of multilateral institutions. 
All  that  was  possible  because  at  the  heart  of  our 
determination to build peace has been our commitment 
to  the  rule  of  law.  Keeping  faith  in  the  law  allows  us 
to treat each other fairly and in the spirit of sovereign 
equality.  It  provides  the  rules  that  enable  nations  to 
relate  to  one  another  and  work  together.  It  reduces 
arbitrariness  and  unilateralism.  Fidelity  to  the  rule  of 
Our advocacy for the rule of law not only is born 
of our experience and insights as a founding Member 
of  the  United  Nations  and  an  active  participant  in 
international  affairs,  but  also  is  deeply  rooted  in  our 
experience  as  a  nation.  Our  freedom  was  hard-won. 
Our  democracy  was  achieved  only  after  decades  of 
dictatorship. Our governance was sullied by corruption 
and patronage in previous years.
Our President, Benigno S. Aquino III, has placed 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  centre  of  his  governance.  As  a 
result,  the  culture  of  impunity  has  been  neutralized, 
our economy is on the upswing and our people’s rights 
and freedoms are assured.
Among the gravest threats that continue to face us 
today is the deadly testament of man’s ability to destroy 
his fellow man. The full force of the rule of law must be 
brought to bear to prevent the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons, to promote nuclear disarmament and to end 
the  f low  of  illicit  weapons.  The  Philippines  is  proud 
to  have  presided  over  the  2010  Review  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  The  historic  adoption  of  the  64 
action  points  strengthened  the  legal  regime  of  the 
Treaty.
We  also  support  nuclear-weapon-free  zones, 
including  the  Southeast  Asian  Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
Zone  created  by  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations.  It  is  essential  that  such  a  zone  be  created 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52563 (E)
*1252563*
A/67/PV.20
for  the  volatile  Middle  East,  as  envisaged  by  the  2010 
Review  Conference.  The  Philippines  commends  the 
States  of  the  region,  the  depository  States  of  the  1995 
resolution  50/78,  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
the  Government  of  Finland  for  setting  the  stage  for 
the 2012 Conference that will pursue that most urgent 
objective.
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
is  another  critical  pillar  of  global  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation. The Philippines commends Indonesia 
for  being  the  latest  annex  2  State  to  ratify  the  Treaty, 
and  it  reiterates  its  call  to  the  remaining  eight  annex 
2  States  to  accede  at  the  soonest  possible  time.  Other 
States  not  included  in  annex  2,  but  not  parties  to  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  must  do  the 
same to ensure the universality of the Treaty.
We must also actively pursue respect for the law of 
peace  and  humanitarian  law  in  the  numerous  regional 
conf licts that affect the lives, safety and well-being of 
millions of people around the world. Towards that end, 
peacekeeping is the crucial tool by which the Charter’s 
mandate  is  carried  out.  Despite  its  limited  resources, 
the Philippines is doing its part in that important task. 
We are currently a major contributor to United Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  We  call  on  others  to  also  do 
all that they can. And we support innovative efforts to 
help  embattled  communities,  including  proposals  on 
possible unarmed peacekeeping that would expand the 
civilian component of our endeavours.
The Philippines also recognizes the important role 
of  women  in  the  promotion  of  peace  and  continues  to 
deploy  more  female  peacekeepers  to  peacekeeping 
missions.  We  aim  to  attain  and  surpass  the  10  per 
cent  deployment  target  of  women  in  country  troop 
contingents and 20 per cent for police deployments.
With  a  tenth  of  the  population  of  our  country  in 
foreign lands, there is a very real and human dimension 
to  our  quest  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law.  To  further 
galvanize  international  dialogue  and  cooperation,  the 
Philippines has been among the principal advocates for 
developing norms of international law that will protect 
not only our overseas Filipinos but all migrants. Human 
trafficking is a crime of such magnitude that it cannot 
be dealt with by a single nation or even by a group of 
nations. The international community as a whole must 
stand together against that scourge. For that reason, the 
Philippines  became  a  founding  member  of  the  Group 
of  Friends  United  against  Human  Trafficking,  and  we 
are the main sponsor of the biennial General Assembly 
resolution on trafficking in women and girls.
In pursuit of that objective, we call on all Member 
States  to  implement  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  against 
Trafficking in Persons and to ratify and enforce human 
rights  instruments  such  as  the  Palermo  Protocol  and 
the  International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the 
Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their 
Families.
Many of my country’s overseas Filipinos are found 
on merchant ships. Filipinos form the bulk of seafarers. 
Many  have  fallen  victim  to  pirates.  Maritime  piracy 
continues to be a menace to the entire world. A full 80 per 
cent of world trade travels by sea — almost six billion 
tons of cargo, moved by some 93,000 merchant vessels, 
manned  by  1.25  million  seafarers.  The  business  and 
human costs of piracy cannot be overstated. We support 
bilateral, multilateral, regional and interregional efforts 
to address the impact of piracy, including measures to 
improve the welfare of affected seafarers.
The  Philippine  Constitution  values  the  dignity  of 
every human person and guarantees full respect for all 
human rights. Our National Human Rights Action Plan 
2009-2014 aims to mainstream human rights standards 
into all parts of the national Government and national 
life.  The  Plan  fully  respects  our  obligations  under  the 
eight major international human rights treaties.
As  a  founding  and  current  member  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  the  Philippines  works  with  the  other 
members  of  the  Council  to  safeguard  the  human 
rights of vulnerable groups, such as migrants, women, 
children, young people, the elderly, indigenous peoples 
and  persons  with  disabilities.  The  Philippines  has 
actively  contributed  to  initiatives  on  human  rights, 
extreme  poverty,  human  rights  education,  combating 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
and climate change.
The  Philippines  was  one  of  the  first  nations  to 
submit  to  the  universal  periodic  review  process  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  Last  month,  the  Council 
adopted  by  consensus  our  second  report  under  that 
review mechanism.
The  noble  vision  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights and of many other profound declarations 
is  far  from  being  realized  for  the  poor,  the  deprived, 
the oppressed and the marginalized. The recent global 
financial and economic crises have left such vulnerable 
2 
12-52563
sectors  of  our  societies  in  even  greater  danger.  The 
Philippine  Government  therefore  strongly  supports 
measures for the empowerment of those disadvantaged 
and endangered groups and strongly advocates policies 
that  aim  to  raise  their  participation  and  integration  in 
society.
For  that  reason,  it  is  important  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  to  plan 
for  the  post-MDG  period,  after  2015.  Accordingly, 
the  Philippines,  together  with  Tanzania,  initiated 
resolution  66/124,  entitled  “High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General Assembly on the realization of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
development  goals  for  persons  with  disabilities”.  The 
2013 High-level Meeting seeks the inclusiveness of the 
disabled, a cause to which all should rally.
We  are  instituting  measures  to  enhance  the  role 
and  the  status  of  women  and  are  strengthening  their 
protection  through  the  Philippine  Commission  on 
Women, whose foundation predates the Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women, through the key legislation of the Magna Carta 
of Women and through the Philippine Plan for Gender-
Responsive Development 1995-2015.
Migration 
remains 
an 
unheralded 
and 
underappreciated dimension of globalization today. Yet 
the  reality  is  that  hundreds  of  millions  live  and  work 
outside  their  native  lands,  providing  benefits  to  both 
their  host  nations  and  their  countries  of  origin.  The 
Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development,  which 
the Philippines chaired in 2008, allows us to share our 
practical experiences in migration management and in 
protecting  the  rights  and  welfare  of  all  migrants.  We 
look  forward  to  a  successful  outcome  of  the  Forum 
summit in Port Louis, Mauritius, in November.
Earlier  this  year,  the  Philippines  was  pleased  to 
ratify  two  key  international  instruments  that  affect 
migrants  everywhere,  namely,  the  Maritime  Labour 
Convention  and  the  Convention  concerning  Decent 
Work  for  Domestic  Workers.  Our  ratification  brings 
those two agreements into force next year.
As  a  further  indication  of  our  commitment  to 
protecting  the  rights  of  migrants,  the  Philippines 
will  co-host  a  regional  meeting  of  the  Global  Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development,  under 
title 
“International  Migrant  Domestic  Care  Workers  at  the 
Interface  of  Migration  and  Development”,  in  Manila 
later  this  month,  with  the  support  of  UN-Women,  the 
the 
A/67/PV.20
International Labour Organization and the International 
Organization for Migration.
The  rule  of  law  is  an  instrument  of  justice  and 
development.  Yet  the  continuing  global  economic 
challenges and financial instability make it even more 
important  that  we  focus  on  ensuring  that  the  rule  of 
law  gives  everyone  their  due.  Poverty,  hunger,  poor 
health  and  education  and  a  deteriorating  environment 
are  threats  to  all  and  require  nothing  less  than  our 
concerted and collective response.
In  all  development  efforts,  we  must  respect  the 
principles  and  norms  of  sustainability  that  are  crucial 
to the continued health of the Earth and of our peoples. 
Consequently,  the  Philippines  will  further  integrate 
key  ideas  from  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development into the review of its medium-
term development plan, even as we continue to pursue 
the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
by 2015.
For  many  developing  countries  such  as 
the 
Philippines,  food  security  remains  a  crucial  issue. 
Recent  events  have  shown 
to 
source  affordable  food  can  affect  millions  of  people, 
sometimes even to the extent of their sheer survival. We 
express  our  appreciation  to  the  General  Assembly  for 
the  adoption  of  resolution  66/222,  declaring  2014  the 
International Year of Family Farming.
the  capacity 
that 
As a country particularly prone to natural disasters, 
including  those  wrought  by  climate  change,  we  value 
the  work  being  done  in  advancing  the  management  of 
natural  disaster  risk  reduction.  Global  and  regional 
cooperation  through  partnerships  is  the  best  way 
to  strengthen 
international  humanitarian  and 
emergency response system.
the 
Natural  disasters  plague  mankind.  The  forces  of 
nature  are  difficult  to  contain.  That  should  not  be  the 
case  in  humankind’s  quest  for  peace.  While  natural 
disasters are impossible to prevent, the same is not true 
of war and conf lict.
The  United  Nations  was  created  to  protect  the 
weak  from  the  strong,  to  provide  for  the  equality  of 
all  sovereign  States  and  to  enshrine  the  rule  of  law 
as  the  governing  principle  in  regulating  international 
disputes.The  Philippines 
in 
promoting the peaceful settlement of disputes through 
a  rules-based  approach.  We  stand  firmly  behind  the 
efforts of the United Nations to promote the rule of law 
and mediation.
therefore  steadfast 
is 
12-52563
3
A/67/PV.20
In  1982,  we  adopted  the  Manila  Declaration  on 
the  Peaceful  Settlement  of  Disputes.  This  year  marks 
its  thirtieth  anniversary.  The  principles  and  processes 
set out in the Manila Declaration remain applicable to 
this  day  and  are  a  stark  reminder  that  we  have  yet  to 
overcome the barriers that divide countries and peoples 
throughout  the  planet.  For  that  reason,  we  share  the 
President’s  view  that  “Bringing  about  the  adjustment 
or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations 
by  peaceful  means”  is  essential  to  the  future  peace, 
progress and prosperity of all nations.
Furthermore, from the perspective of the rule of law, 
and  given  the  maritime  disputes  that  have  intensified 
in the Asian region, the United Nations Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  has  never  been  more 
relevant  than  it  is  today.  All  States  must  respect  their 
obligations to settle their maritime disputes by peaceful 
means  under  UNCLOS,  without  the  threat  or  use  of 
force.  A  rules-based  approach  under  UNCLOS  can 
peacefully resolve the Asian maritime disputes.
faces 
Today,  my  country 
its  most  serious 
challenge — a challenge to the security of its maritime 
domain and the integrity of its national territory, as well 
as  its  effective  protection  of  its  marine  environment. 
To  address  this  challenge  and  to  arrive  at  a  durable 
resolution, we must rely on the rule of law and not the 
force  of  arms.  We  must  rely  on  the  body  of  rules  that 
state that disputes must be resolved peacefully. We must 
rely on the norms and rules enshrined in UNCLOS. We 
therefore  rely  on  our  friends  and  allies  and  all  those 
who believe in the peaceful and fair management of the 
seas and oceans to uphold the rule of law and UNCLOS. 
We will endeavour to elicit a more proactive approach 
from the General Assembly.
We often hear the quote that “we are a country of 
laws and not of men”. I shall modify it to say that “we 
are a community of nations and not of hegemons”. Let us 
make this a reality. Let us all, without exception, respect 
the international legal framework to utilize institutions 
and adhere to commitments in treaties and conventions. 
For in so doing, we create global norms that will serve 
our nations in good stead today and in the future, and 
we will preserve the one great institution that we have 
charged  with  promoting  peace  and  prosperity  in  our 
world,  our  United  Nations.  If  we  achieve  this,  rather 
than being forced to accept that might is right, we will 
instead demonstrate that right is might.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Wilfred  Elrington,  Attorney  General, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of 
Belize.
Mr.  Elrington  (Belize):  It  is  my  distinct  honour 
to address the Assembly on behalf of the Government 
and  people  of  Belize.  I  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  am  confident 
that he will guide the deliberations of the Assembly in 
a forthright and skilful manner.
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  reaffirm  Belize’s 
unequivocal  commitment  to  the  principles,  goals 
and  ideals  of  the  United  Nations,  and  to  pledge  our 
unconditional support for the success of its endeavours. 
Based  on  its  performance  over  the  past  67  years,  we 
feel confident to opine that, whereas the United Nations 
is  unquestionably  imperfect,  just  as  our  democracy  is 
imperfect, our United Nations is also, however — like 
democracy — the best institution devised by mankind 
dedicated  exclusively  to  achieving  a  safer,  more  just 
and prosperous world.
As  the  twenty-first  century  inexorably  evolves, 
laying bare the fragility and vulnerability of our planet 
to dangerous global forces, both natural and man-made, 
which  threaten  the  existence  of  all  living  things  on 
our  planet,  the  genius  and  prescience  of  the  founding 
fathers  in  creating  the  United  Nations  is  illuminated 
beyond  doubt.  It  is  probably  debatable  whether  in 
1945  the  imperative  for  mankind  to  work  together 
in  harmony  to  ensure  the  survival  of  our  very  planet 
was appreciated by all nations. It may be questionable 
whether  it  was  universally  appreciated  in  1945  that  it 
was  absolutely  necessary  to  have  a  global  institution 
dedicated  to  the  protection  of  mankind  against  man’s 
penchant  for  causing  destruction  as  well  as  against 
Nature’s  destructive  elements  and  forces.  Today, 
however,  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  is  not  only 
manifest  to  everyone,  but  there  are  clarion  calls  for  it 
to do more and to be more inclusive, representative and 
democratic, calls to which Belize adds its voice.
My  country  gained  its  independence  largely  in 
consequence  of  a  resolution  of  the  United  Nations 
calling  upon  the  United  Kingdom  to  grant  us  our 
independence  by  the  end  of  1981,  thereby  bringing  to 
an end more than 100 years of colonial administration. 
But whereas we attained our political independence in 
September 1981, our sovereignty over our homeland is 
still being threatened by a territorial claim dating back 
to the post-1940s by our neighbour Guatemala.
4 
12-52563
We  therefore  find  the  theme  for  this  session’s 
debate a timely and fitting one, namely, bringing about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations  by  peaceful  means.  Happily,  I  can  today 
inform the Assembly that the Governments of Guatemala 
and  Belize  both  have  agreed  to  a  recommendation  of 
the Secretary-General of the Organization of American 
States to allow the Guatemalan claim to be adjudicated 
upon  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  if  that  is 
the  will  of  the  citizens  of  our  respective  countries,  as 
expressed  in  simultaneous  referendums  to  be  held  on 
6 October 2013.
the 
The  resolution  of 
territorial  differendum 
between Belize and Guatemala will not only consolidate 
Belize’s  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  but  also 
enhance the peace and security of our subregion and be 
conducive  to  the  strengthening  and  deepening  of  our 
regional integration process.
Belizeans  are  a  peace-loving  people.  We  abhor 
conf lict.  We  believe  in  the  rule  of  law.  And  we  have 
faith in the United Nations.
With  almost  half  of  our  population  under  the  age 
of  25  and  approximately  37  per  cent  under  the  age  of 
18, our nation’s future and destiny are inextricably tied 
to  the  welfare  of  our  children.  And  in  order  for  them 
to  attain  their  full  potential,  they  must  be  properly 
nurtured and fed with balanced, nutritious meals. They 
must  be  safely  and  comfortably  housed  and  they  must 
be  properly  educated  and  trained,  beginning  from  the 
time they are in the cradle. Our children must be trained 
and  educated  especially  in  science  and  technology. 
They must be trained to think creatively, to be fiercely 
competitive,  to  be  industrious  and  to  be  prudent  in 
the  management  of  our  resources.  Our  Government  is 
convinced that it is only with this type of training and 
development  that  our  citizens  will  be  able  to  compete 
successfully  in  the  world  market  and  generate  the 
wealth  that  is  required  to  transform  our  society  into  a 
truly developed nation. If we fail our children today, we 
are setting ourselves up to fail in our common future.
With  a  view  to  attaining  development  objectives, 
our  Government  has 
initiated  some  ambitious, 
comprehensive  pro-poor  policies.  For  example,  our 
Government is committed to a programme to ensure that 
low-income  Belizean  families  do  not  have  to  face  the 
difficult choice between sending their children to school 
or  buying  food.  Qualifying  families  in  underserved 
rural or urban areas can already rely on our conditional 
cash-transfer  programme  and  on  our  food  pantry 
A/67/PV.20
programme. We provide education subsidies to families 
of  children  attending  secondary  school.  We  continue 
to  emphasize  and  expand  early  childhood  education 
and to improve access to alternative education. We are 
investing in improving the quality of the health care to 
which our citizens have access.
As  a  small  State  that  took  its  place  among  the 
nations  of  the  world  only  31  years  ago,  Belize  is 
experiencing all the growing pains that naturally aff lict 
the young. Furthermore, our situation is aggravated by 
the  fact  our  population  is  less  than  350,000  persons, 
who  trace  their  origins  to  all  over  the  globe  and  are 
consequently  multi-ethnic,  multi-faith,  multilingual 
and multicultural. With such a diverse population, the 
urgency of social cohesion cannot be overstated. When 
we add to this mix the challenges which today confront 
us all, occasioned by natural disasters such as climate 
change  and  by  man-made  ones  such  as  the  global 
financial  collapse  and  transnational  criminal  activity, 
it  becomes  readily  apparent  that  it  is  wholly  beyond 
the  capacity  of  any  one  Government  to  discharge  its 
obligation  towards  its  citizens  solely  through  national 
initiatives  and  devices  and  solely  with  domestic 
resources.
For 
this  reason, 
the  Belize  Government  has 
embraced  the  multilateral  system  and  our  cooperation 
partners  around  the  world.  We  are  partnering  with 
them  in  many  fields,  including  economic,  social, 
environmental  and  humanitarian,  in  our  perennial 
quest to better secure all our citizens and develop them 
to their fullest potential. In this regard, United Nations 
funds,  programmes  and  agencies  such  as  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund,  UNICEF,  UNESCO,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  and    the 
World Health Organization are working tirelessly with 
countries  like  Belize  to  carry  out  the  decisions  of  the 
international  community  and  support  efforts  to  meet 
the aspirations of our people. Belize avails itself of this 
opportunity  to  thank  all  our  development  partners  for 
the  tremendous  contributions  they  make  daily  to  the 
security and development of our country and people.
We know that more can and, indeed, must be done 
to raise our ambitions in delivering for the poor, for the 
needy and for the vulnerable. It is therefore urgent that 
we move to shape a post-2015 development agenda that 
ref lects our equal stake in a common future, addresses 
12-52563
5
A/67/PV.20
the concerns of the wealthy and strong, and meets the 
needs of the poor and the vulnerable.
(CARICOM), 
Belize  remains  fully  supportive  of  all  regional 
initiatives.  We  have  sought  and  obtained  membership 
in the Organization of American States, the Caribbean 
Community 
the  Central  American 
Integration  System  and  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States. We work closely in all 
these  subregional  groupings  on  the  issues  of  concern 
to  us  such  as  climate  change,  security  and  economic 
development.  And  here  we  feel  constrained  to  point 
out that the impact of climate change on our region has 
been direct, dire and devastating, compelling us to join 
forces with our CARICOM partners and with the wider 
Alliance of Small Island States to advance our interests 
in  the  climate  change  negotiation  process.  In  that 
connection,  Belize  is  proud  of  its  contribution  as  host 
nation of the CARICOM Climate Change Centre, which 
is  tasked  to  provide  technical  and  scientific  advice 
to  inform  subregional  policy  positions  in  executing 
adaptation and mitigation projects in our subregion and 
to raise awareness of the deleterious impact of climate 
change in our respective countries. We thank the staff 
of that institution for the sterling work they are doing.
to 
With  respect 
the  nefarious  enterprises  of 
transnational  trafficking  in  humans,  drugs  and  arms, 
Belize  subscribes  to  the  view  that  a  regional  response 
is  imperative  to  combat  these  pernicious  scourges. 
Our  countries  are  not  the  markets  for  these  illicit 
commodities.  Our  countries  do  not  benefit  from 
the  immense  profits  generated  by  these  criminal 
enterprises, yet we bear the burden of having to divert 
scarce  resources,  badly  needed  for  development,  to 
combat  the  activities  of  these  merchants  of  death  and 
destruction. Indeed, our countries are overwhelmed by 
the grim tasks which now befall us of having to mend 
the  shattered  lives  of  our  children  and  of  mourning 
their untimely deaths. That is why Belize is committed 
to the implementation of the Central America Regional 
Security  Strategy  and  to  working  with  our  partners 
to  ensure  that  the  Strategy  has  the  level  of  support 
necessary to guarantee that it is effective.
Our  region,  Central  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
has  been  labelled  as  among  the  most  violent  regions 
of  the  world,  with  homicide  rates  that  have  reached 
crisis  levels,  occasioned  largely  by  the  use  of  small 
arms and light weapons. But almost all small arms and 
light  weapons  found  in  our  region  start  out  as  legally 
manufactured and legally traded arms. Every Member 
of the United Nations is involved in some measure in this 
trade, which we believe is of dubious value to mankind. 
It  is  therefore  deeply  regrettable  that,  despite  what 
appeared to be an emerging consensus and despite the 
underlying  global  urgency  of  a  multilateral  response, 
the conclusion of an arms trade treaty has so far been 
beyond  the  reach  of  the  international  community.  It 
is  urgent,  in  our  view,  that  we  redouble  our  efforts  to 
break the gridlock and reach the compromise necessary 
to arrive at a consensus on an arms trade treaty as soon 
as possible.
The States of Latin America and the Caribbean are 
almost  all  classified  —  wrongly  and  unjustly,  in  our 
view — as middle-income countries. That is a generic 
classification  that  masks  the  varied  challenges  our 
countries  continue  to  face  arising  from  poverty,  high 
levels  of  income  inequality,  economic  vulnerabilities 
and  debt.  As  a  consequence,  all  our  countries  have 
been  calling  for  a  change  in  paradigm  so  that  the 
classification  of  countries  as  middle-income  countries 
no longer guides development cooperation. We urge all 
our development partners to heed this call and address 
this situation.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  echo  the  call  of  other 
Members  of  this  institution  who  have  advocated  the 
lifting  of  the  economic  embargo  against  Cuba,  which 
continues  to  fetter  the  development  of  that  sister 
Caribbean nation and its people.
Belize  also  notes  and  joins  those  positive  voices 
that  support  Taiwan.  We  therefore  urge  Taiwan’s  full 
participation in the United Nations.
We  ask  also  that  urgent  attention  be  given  to  the 
concerns  of  the  people  of  Israel  and  Palestine,  whose 
legitimate  expectation  to  live  peaceful,  fruitful  lives 
continues  to  be  frustrated.  And  we  stand  in  solidarity 
with the citizens of the Middle East, particularly those 
in  Syria,  in  their  quest  for  those  democratic  freedoms 
to which we all aspire.
As  we  move  ahead  to  take  on  the  new  challenges 
that  will  emerge  during  the  sixty-seventh  session,  as 
we  redouble  our  efforts  to  address  the  long-standing 
problems  our  world  faces,  and  as  we  renew  our  faith 
in  the  multilateral  system,  the  role  of  the  Assembly 
and  of  our  United  Nations  Organization  will  become 
increasingly critical and relevant. This is the only body 
that is truly universal in character and which commands 
legitimacy and authority. The entire world looks to the 
United  Nations  to  solve  the  multitudinous  problems 
6 
12-52563
which beset mankind. In the circumstances, the United 
Nations is simply just too big to fail in the discharge of 
its singular obligation: to safeguard the well-being and 
safety of humankind and planet Earth.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Makei,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Makei (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): We often 
invoke the phrase “the spirit of San Francisco”. We do 
that when we speak and think about positive aspects of 
international  relations.  Indeed,  the  message  sent  from 
the 1945 Conference in San Francisco offered immense 
hope to the generation that had just survived the most 
horrible  war  ever  experienced  —  hope  for  building 
a  fundamentally  new  world.  Justice  was  intended 
to  replace  violence,  cooperation  was 
to  replace 
lawlessness.  The  United  Nations,  founded  in  that  city, 
was  called  upon  to  become  the  key  element  of  a  new 
order.
Have  the  hopes,  born  in  San  Francisco,  come 
true? To some extent, they have. After all, today there 
is  no  sign  of  the  sharp  ideological  confrontation  that 
characterized  the  twentieth  century.  Nor  is  there  the 
direct, open conf lict between the major Powers that had 
marked  all  previous  centuries  with  its  violence.  What 
is  more,  such  scourges  as  colonialism,  slavery  and 
apartheid have been irrevocably consigned to oblivion.
But the spirit of San Francisco was about something 
more  than  just  preventing  the  recurring  mistakes  of 
the  past.  First  and  foremost,  it  was  a  message  about  a 
promising future. Unfortunately, that is precisely what 
has failed to become a reality. Why? Reinhold Niebuhr, 
an outstanding American philosopher who was writing 
in  those  fateful  times,  noted  that  general  community 
is  established  only  when  the  knowledge  that  we  need 
one another is supplemented by the recognition that the 
other  form  of  life,  or  that  unique  other  community,  is 
the limit beyond which our ambitions must not run.
Today  that  point  is  as  insightful  as  it  was  then. 
Some  countries  see  neither  the  limits  of  their  foreign 
policy  nor  forms  of  statehood  other  than  their  own. 
And that is exactly what gives rise to many of today’s 
geopolitical  problems.  States  that  refuse  to  follow 
patterns imposed from the outside and choose to defend 
their real sovereignty must pay dearly for that right.
Take the case of Cuba. The historic choice to pursue 
an independent path of development that was made by 
A/67/PV.20
its  people  more  than  five  decades  ago  encountered 
rejection  and  economic  blockade  on  the  part  of  those 
who still believe, in the twenty-first century, that they 
can continue to write the history of humankind in the 
same manner as they did in the past. And that is not the 
only example.
Belarus is fully convinced that any attempt to make 
someone do something against their will is doomed to 
fail. Are we not learning the lessons of the past? After 
all, neither weapons nor wealth constitute the greatest 
source  of  power  on  Earth.  That  power  stems  rather 
from  the  spirit  of  self-determination.  If  a  nation  has 
embarked on its own path of peaceful and progressive 
development, then no external force is able to stop it in 
its tracks. Battles can be won against such a nation, but 
never wars.
The time of imperialism, in whatever lofty slogans 
it  is  now  being  dressed  —  democracy,  human  rights, 
good  governance  —  is  irreversibly  past.  Furthermore, 
today  we  are  weighed  down  by  global  economic 
challenges,  nearly  all  of  which  have  resulted  from  a 
policy of so-called market fundamentalism relentlessly 
pursued  by  its  proponents  over  the  past  four  decades. 
Its  major  outcome  is  a  steady  rise  in  inequality  at 
all  levels.  Essentially  we  are  witnessing  the  great 
divergence.  Clearly,  the  situation  resembles  a  slowly 
ticking  time-bomb  of  future  mass  upheavals  fraught 
with unpredictable consequences.
Unfortunately,  the  current  economic  woes  are 
structural  and  therefore  unlikely  to  be  quickly  and 
decisively resolved. That is attested to by the fact that 
the  crisis  persists  all  over  the  world  four  years  after 
it  began.  The  measures  adopted  over  that  period  have 
failed  to  do  much  to  remedy  the  situation.  Yet,  what 
is  far  more  disturbing  is  that  the  countries  whose 
policies had nothing to do with market fundamentalism 
have  also  experienced  severe  hardships.  Because  of 
the  growing  global  interdependence  of  all  aspects  of 
international life, they simply have no other option.
We  call  attention  to  another  chronic  ailment  of 
modernity,  of  a  moral  nature.  Double  standards  in  the 
foreign policy of the world Powers have become a norm. 
As a result, those major world players are willing to go to 
great lengths to cater to the interests of their “friends”. 
Yet they advocate the forced imposition of democracy 
and human rights on their adversaries. Guided solely by 
their own interests, the players who were shaking hands 
with you yesterday openly contribute to your downfall 
today.  In  considering  human  rights  situations  in  other 
12-52563
7
A/67/PV.20
countries  under  a  microscope,  those  players  have 
refused to acknowledge the obvious faults in their own 
countries. In other words, we have come to witness the 
rise of unscrupulous and barbaric behaviour in foreign 
policy  that  is  worthy  of  the  teachings  of  Machiavelli 
himself.
themselves  —  they  result  from  human  action.  At  this 
point we are living in a system that may be viewed as 
a  dysfunctional  multipolarity.  Indeed,  we  are  forced 
to  witness  a  rising  number  of  global  players  that  are 
proving  unable  to  cope  effectively  with  increasing 
global demands.
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  United  Nations,  by  and 
large, has been sidelined in that context. Nevertheless, 
it  has  not  been  the  fault  of  the  Organization.  The 
brainchild of San Francisco has simply not been allowed 
to function in the manner conceived by its founders.
Is  there  a  way  out  of  the  seemingly  hopeless 
situation?  We  are  certain  that  there  is.  The  current 
challenges  have  not  become  insurmountable  yet.  We 
will  be  able  to  overcome  them.  However,  that  will 
require  us  to  revive  the  spirit  of  San  Francisco.  We 
should return to the principles and foundations, which 
could  serve  as  the  building  blocks  for  a  better  world 
today.  Multilateralism,  justice  and  cooperation  are  as 
relevant today as they were in 1945. 
So, what in practical terms must be done? Belarus 
does not pretend to have exhaustive answers. We would 
like just to draw attention to four areas that, in our view, 
are  most  crucial:  the  rule  of  law,  politics,  economics 
and the environment. First, to establish the rule of law 
globally, the system of international law must become 
fully functional. Forged through centuries of suffering, 
it  is  the  foundation  without  which  all  other  elements 
of  modern  civilization  cannot  operate.  Having  signed 
the Charter of the United Nations, the world’s countries 
committed  themselves  to  abide  by  the  principles  of 
international  law.  In  other  words,  they  refused  to  live 
any longer under conditions of destructive anarchy and 
lawlessness.
International  law  has  been  shaped  as  a  historic 
compromise  between  the  interests  of  all  States.  It 
may  be  supplemented  and  revised  only  if  all  States 
agree  to  do  so.  There  should  be  no  place  for  arbitrary 
interpretations  that  seek  to  subordinate  international 
law  to  private  interests.  Let  us  bear  in  mind  that  such 
behaviour leads to infringement of the interests of other 
international  actors.  That  is  why  no  trendy  concepts 
such  as  humanitarian  intervention  or  responsibility  to 
protect can justify interference in the internal affairs of 
sovereign States.
Secondly,  in  political  terms,  we  need  a  stable  and 
predictable global order. It is up to us whether we will 
have one. Global systems cannot establish and manage 
If  we  fail  to  restructure  the  situation,  then  we 
will  most  likely  end  up  with  a  scenario  that  is  even 
worse — something that resembles the dark era of the 
Middle  Ages  but  aggravated  by  ever  more  dangerous 
transnational  threats  and  challenges.  Thus,  again  we 
return  to  the  perennial  question:  how  is  it  possible  to 
build  an  effective  global  order  in  a  world  that  lacks  a 
global  government?We  can  offer  an  idea.  A  response 
would involve addressing the structural issue by means 
of a functional approach. Let us try to devise an effective 
global system by tackling specific functional problems. 
After  all,  is  it  not  the  case  that  all  positive-minded 
global stakeholders have an interest in addressing fewer 
problems or eliminating them altogether? 
We  are  deeply  convinced  that  global  partnerships 
will provide the means whereby we realize that vision. 
They can bring together multiple players on the world 
stage in a common effort against specific transnational 
threats and challenges. So let us begin working on and 
implementing  functional  partnerships  on  each  of  the 
issues. Indeed, my country has already been doing just 
that, for instance, in the fight against human trafficking 
within the framework of the global partnership against 
slavery  and  human  trafficking  proposed  by  Belarus 
some time ago.
Thirdly,  there  is  the  economic  dimension.  Mass 
protests across the world, like the Occupy Wall Street 
movement, testify to public rejection of the prevailing 
development  model.  This  is  hardly  surprising;  after 
all, the model was built with the interests of corporate 
capital in mind. Clearly, the classic recipe of Adam Smith 
does not work in a modern world. Contrary to general 
expectations,  the  invisible  hand  of  the  market  has  not 
led  to  universal  public  well-being.  The  experience  of 
the  past  few  decades  indicates  that  the  invisible  hand 
contributes  to  the  enrichment  of  the  corporate  sector 
alone, while impoverishing others.
The global economy of the twenty-first century is 
too sophisticated to be left to the whims of market forces. 
That  economy  requires  a  reasonable  balance  among 
its  various  elements.  As  far  as  the  balance  per  se  is 
concerned, it cannot be established by default, someone 
must do it. Only a State is able to accomplish that task, 
8 
12-52563
A/67/PV.20
and more crucially, a strong, socially oriented State that 
does not live by borrowing from future generations, as 
is currently the case in some advanced countries.We are 
convinced that a State-based paradigm, as we suggest, 
will  permit  the  severe  imbalance  to  be  redressed. 
Likewise, it is key to significantly reducing poverty in 
the world.
for  his  skilful  stewardship  of  the  sixty-sixth  session. 
My  delegation  is  confident  that  under  the  President’s 
guidance  and  wise  leadership,  the  General  Assembly 
will  achieve  a  successful  and  fruitful  outcome.  I 
therefore  pledge  the  full  support  and  cooperation  of 
my  delegation  to  him,  in  the  discharge  of  his  onerous 
responsibilities.
Finally,  what  is  required  of  us  in  terms  of  the 
environment?  Climate  change  is  the  central  and 
defining  challenge  of  today’s  world.  This  is  the  wall 
that  separates  current  and  future  generations  from  a 
prosperous  future.  Our  efforts  in  all  other  areas  will 
prove futile if we fail to tackle this core challenge. We 
must  preserve  the  life-giving  ecosystem  of  the  Earth. 
This,  therefore,  is  where  there  is  the  greatest  need  for 
comprehensive international cooperation. 
(Rio+20)  was  held 
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development 
in  June.  The 
Conference’s decisions essentially marked the start of a 
new green deal that is expected to rally all stakeholders 
for  common  action.  We  need 
to  move  forward 
decisively  to  implement  its  individual  elements.  It  is, 
above  all,  about  elaborating  sustainable  development 
goals  and  ensuring  the  transfer  and  integration  of 
green  technologies.  In  the  context  of  the  follow-up  to 
Rio+20,  the  formulation  of  a  comprehensive  United 
Nations  energy  agenda  must  be  seriously  considered. 
We  believe  it  would  contribute  to  an  urgently  needed 
comprehensive approach to addressing the interrelated 
issues of climate change, energy and food security.
The  United  Nations  is  the  natural  place  for  the 
implementation  of  all  the  ideas  articulated  above.  No 
other  international  body  possesses  such  universal 
legitimacy.  Let  us  therefore,  at  last,  empower  the 
United Nations. We are certain that the United Nations 
will  then  be  able  to  realize  with  dignity  the  vision  set 
forth in San Francisco so many years ago.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Phandu  T.  C.  Skelemani,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Republic of Botswana.
Mr. Skelemani (Botswana): Allow me, on behalf of 
my delegation, to join preceding speakers in expressing 
our felicitations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh  session.  Let  me  also  seize  the  opportunity  to 
sincerely  commend  his  predecessor,    Ambassador 
Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  of  the  State  of  Qatar, 
Botswana  is  among  the  developing  countries 
that  have  been  adversely  affected  by  the  2008  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  Consequently,  we 
were  compelled  to  reorder  our  priorities  and  also 
defer  implementation  of  various  approved  projects  in 
our  National  Development  Plan,  some  of  which  were 
of  strategic  national  importance.  In  that  regard,  we 
continue  to  be  concerned  that  many  of  our  traditional 
donors who helped us to progress to where we are today, 
have  virtually  abandoned  us  following  Botswana’s 
graduation to higher middle-income developing country 
status. Contrary to the perception that Botswana is an 
economically well-off country, we now, more than ever 
before, need development assistance, on account of the 
varied nature and gravity of the challenges we continue 
to face.
With  respect  to  the  African  continent,  Botswana 
has  followed  with  concern  some  recent  peculiar 
developments. The military coups in Mali and Guinea-
Bissau  early  this  year  are  a  sad  reminder  of  what  we 
thought was a closed chapter of the dark days of African 
politics  driven  by  self-interest.  Those  developments 
seriously  undermine  the  significant  progress  which 
Africa has made to date in embracing and consolidating 
democracy, good governance, respect for human rights 
and  the  rule  of  law.  We  therefore  call  on  the  African 
Union  to  remain  firm  and  resolute  in  its  rejection  of 
unconstitutional changes of Government on the African 
continent, and we implore the international community 
to give full importance and full support to the African 
Union in that regard.
Elsewhere  on 
the  continent,  we  particularly 
welcome the recent agreement between the Sudan and 
South  Sudan  on  the  implementation  of  the  African 
Union road map, aimed at resolving outstanding issues 
in the relations between the two countries. However, we 
remain  concerned  about  the  fragile  security  situation, 
and  we  therefore  appeal  to  both  parties  to  exercise 
maximum  restraint  and  to  commit  to  honouring  the 
terms of the road map. Although the appeal is made to 
both sides, we are very much aware that the Sudan is the 
main cause of the instability between the two countries. 
12-52563
9
A/67/PV.20
The  catalogue  of  incidents  of  provocation  and  blatant 
acts of aggression against the Republic of South Sudan 
by the North that has led to instability in that region has 
been typical of the Sudanese regime for many years.
We  live  in  times  when  our  common  well-being 
is  seriously  compromised  by  such  threats  as  nuclear 
proliferation, terrorism, climate change, environmental 
degradation, underdevelopment and pandemic diseases, 
coupled  with  the  effects  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis  and  internal  conf licts.  The  resolution 
of  the  myriad  of  challenges  and  threats  confronting 
mankind  requires  urgent  and  concerted  action  by  the 
international  community.  Because  of  its  universality, 
the United Nations commands the requisite legitimacy 
and moral authority to provide guidance and leadership 
in addressing those threats and challenges. It is therefore 
imperative  that  the  United  Nations  of  the  twenty-first 
century  respond  effectively  to  present  realities  and 
effectively handle future challenges.
We  believe  that  the  international  community 
should  act  and  speak  out  strongly  and  forthrightly 
against  human  rights  abuses  and  atrocities  wherever 
and whenever they occur. In that regard, my delegation 
observes with deep regret that, over the past few months, 
the  world  community  has  watched  helplessly  and 
failed  hopelessly  to  intervene  as  Syria  descended  into 
protracted  anarchy.  In  the  process,  the  Syrian  people 
have been subjected to a cycle of violent repression and 
some  of  the  worst  human  rights  abuses  and  atrocities 
known to mankind.
Even  as  we  speak,  the  violent  crackdown  and 
bloodshed in that country continue unabated. Al-Assad 
has  displaced  more  than  a  million  Syrians  to  satisfy 
his  lust  for  power.  He  has  caused  around  300,000 
Syrians  to  f lee  into  neighbouring  countries  because 
of  his  criminal  acts.  He  has  slaughtered  20,000  of  his 
citizens  in  order  to  remain  President.  He  has  killed 
men, women, children and babies to achieve that. The 
international  community  has,  regrettably,  failed  to 
respond  collectively.  And  Syria  remains  a  Member  of 
the United Nations, a body with the expressed objective 
of  defending  humankind.  That  surely  cannot  be  right. 
Syria’s allies in the Security Council and in the region 
need to be equally condemned.
The  uprisings  in  the  Middle  East,  commonly 
referred to as the Arab Spring, have demonstrated that 
no amount of force can suppress the will of the people 
forever.  The  situation  in  Libya,  Tunisia  and  Egypt, 
where  the  popular  will  of  the  people  has  ushered  in 
democratic dispensations, attests to that.
Concerning  Libya,  which  had  to  engage  in  an 
internal  conf lict  to  rid  itself  of  a  brutal  dictator,  we 
commend  the  Libyan  people  and  their  allies  in  the 
military  coalition  that  imposed  a  no-f ly  zone  in  order 
to remove Colonel Al-Qadhafi and his regime.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  given  its 
mandate  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security, 
the  Security  Council  should  assume  the  high  moral 
ground  in  defending  the  victims  of  war  crimes  and 
crimes against humanity, such as those currently being 
committed in Syria. The principle of the responsibility 
to protect, as expressed in Security Council resolution 
1674  (2006),  should  be  forcefully  applied  wherever 
crimes against humanity occur. In that connection, my 
delegation  condemns  in  the  strongest  possible  terms 
the persistent vetoes by China and Russia of successive 
Security Council resolutions aimed at putting pressure 
on  the  Syrian  leadership  to  cease  its  heinous  crimes 
against its citizens. We therefore call on those members 
of  the  Council  to  live  up  to  their  responsibilities,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  We  urge  the  international  community  to 
act  swiftly  to  save  the  people  of  Syria  from  further 
unwarranted bloodshed.
towards  a  resolution  of 
Botswana  will  continue  to  sponsor  and  support 
the  various  General  Assembly  and  Human  Rights 
Council resolutions aimed at addressing the situation in 
Syria,  as  a  practical  demonstration  of  our  unwavering 
commitment 
the  Syrian 
crisis.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  join  forces  with 
like-minded  countries  in  calling  for  the  situation  in 
Syria to be referred to the International Criminal Court 
for  investigation,  so  that  those  responsible  for  crimes 
against  humanity  can  be  held  accountable.  Al-Assad 
and his regime should be removed as soon as possible. 
We must encourage the opposition to unite and to form 
a transition administration that we can all recognize.
We wish to commend Turkey and the other countries 
that have taken on the burden of accommodating Syrian 
refugees,  have  spoken  out  against  the  deteriorating 
security  and  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria  and 
have  responded,  with  others,  to  the  plea  of  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees  (UNHCR)  for  contributions.  For  its  part, 
Botswana has made a modest contribution to UNHCR to 
help the humanitarian relief efforts for Syrian refugees. 
10 
12-52563
We  also  wish  to  commend  responsible  human-rights 
organizations,  such  as  Amnesty  International  and 
Human Rights Watch, for the work they do in seeking 
to  safeguard  the  principles  that  protect  humankind. 
Their  mission  —  to  act  as  watchdogs  in  matters  of 
safeguarding  human  rights  —  is  a  very  necessary 
one.  Similarly,  we  commend 
those  humanitarian 
non-governmental  organizations  that  work  tirelessly, 
with  meagre  resources  and  under  very  difficult 
circumstances,  to  bring  relief  to  refugees  affected  by 
natural and man-made disasters.
Human rights abuses and atrocities are not limited 
to Syria. It is in that context that we affirm our support 
for  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  urge  it  to 
continue  to  fulfil  its  mandate,  including  prosecuting 
those  indicted  for  human  rights  abuses  and  crimes 
against humanity. We therefore appeal to States parties 
to fully cooperate with the Court in its efforts to bring 
the suspected perpetrators of such crimes to justice.
We wish to add our voice in condemning the violence 
that occurred following the release of a publication that 
offended  people  of  the  Islamic  faith.  There  can  be  no 
justification  for  such  a  violent  response.  The  violence 
itself caused offence to its victims. Retaliation against 
offensive  expressions  therefore  cannot  take  the  form 
of  other  offensive  actions  aimed  at  innocent  parties. 
However,  where  democracy  is  defined  as  Government 
of  the  people,  by  the  people,  for  the  people  —  in 
other  words,  doing  what  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the 
people — how can it be in the people’s best interests if 
freedom of speech results in insults?
Other  freedoms,  in  a  democratic  dispensation, 
include  freedom  of  association  —  but  we  cannot 
associate  with  terrorist  or  criminal  groups  without 
consequences, since it is not in the people’s best interests 
to  live  among  terrorists  and  criminals.  Freedom  of 
expression  allows  for  protests  —  but  only  peaceful 
protests  —  in  democracies,  because  it  is  also  not  in 
people’s  best  interests  to  have  violent  protests;  and  in 
democracies consequences do follow if protests become 
violent. The same goes for freedom of the press, if it is 
abused, as it often is. There must be consequences, in 
order to protect people’s interests from misinformation 
and attempts to discredit or defame them. With all such 
freedoms there must be limits. Democracy is supposed 
to be responsible. Causing offence and insult cannot by 
any  stretch  of  the  imagination  be  passed  off  as  what 
we want in a democracy. Trying to justify irresponsible 
A/67/PV.20
actions  as  permitted  under  any  of  these  freedoms, 
including freedom of speech, is itself irresponsible.
Turning to environmental issues, we note the limited 
and disappointing progress made at the United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in addressing 
sustainable development issues, as has been the case at 
similar summits in the past. As we all know, the world 
is  facing  the  twin  challenges  of  scarcity  of  resources 
and  climate  change.  Those  problems  are  particularly 
acute in Africa, owing to the high incidence of poverty 
there. 
To  respond  to  those  big  problems,  which  clearly 
need  visionary  solutions  and  strong  partnerships  for 
sustainability  on  a  scale  and  with  an  impact  that  are 
unprecedented, my country took the important initiative 
of  hosting  in  May  the  Summit  for  Sustainability  in 
Africa.    Participation  was  at  the  Head  of  State  level, 
and  included  representatives  of  some  of  the  most 
inf luential  and  significant  private-sector  stakeholders 
in  the  world.  The  Summit  adopted  the  Gaborone 
Declaration,  which,  among  other  things,  provides  for 
policy  improvements  at  both  the  Government  and  the 
private-sector levels, aimed at integrating the value of 
natural capital development. The Declaration also calls 
for  increased  private-sector  investment  in  Africa  to 
help  reduce  food  insecurity,  improve  livelihoods  and 
increase sustainability. We therefore call on the United 
Nations  system  and  the  international  community  in 
general to commit to implementing the Declaration.
There  are  many  important  and  urgent  issues 
affecting developing countries that must be addressed. 
They include technology transfer, funding and capacity-
building in other areas, aimed at enabling such countries 
to adapt to the requirements of a green economy in the 
context of sustainable development. In that regard, we 
urge the developed world to help developing countries 
to  address  these  critical  issues  and  take  accelerated 
action  in  order  to  deal  with  climate  change  and  its 
causes in their economies.
However, we welcome the agreement to launch an 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  that  will  lead 
to  the  adoption  of  sustainable  development  goals  as 
part  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  when  the 
implementation process of the Millennium Development 
Goals will have run its course. My delegation believes 
that the process for developing sustainable development 
goals should be synchronized with the 2013 review of the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
12-52563
11
A/67/PV.20
We would like to take this opportunity to commend the 
work  done  by  environmental  organizations  worldwide 
in their efforts to save the planet from climate change 
and its negative effects.
and  tourism  score  high.  The  design  and  construction 
of  relevant  infrastructure  demonstrate  Suriname’s 
potential  to  be  a  player  on  the  supply  side  of  strategic 
commodities. 
Botswana participated in the ill-fated United Nations 
Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  in  July,  whose 
purpose  was  for  Member  States  to  agree  on  common 
international standards for regulating the international 
trade  in  conventional  weapons.  We  believe  that,  when 
adopted,  an  arms  trade  treaty  will  complement  the 
United Nations programme of action for combating the 
proliferation of arms and ammunition, which continue 
to cause untold suffering.
Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  state  that  Botswana 
fully supports the call for implementing the Assembly’s 
successive resolutions on lifting sanctions against Cuba, 
something we believe is logical and long overdue.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Winston  Lackin,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Suriname.
Mr.  Lackin  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of  Mr.  Desiré 
Delano Bouterse, President of the Republic of Suriname, 
I avail myself of this opportunity to extend to Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić my congratulations on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
The  wealth  of  experience  that  he  brings  to  this  body 
will certainly assist him in successfully discharging his 
duties. We pledge our full support and cooperation. 
Allow  me  to  salute  his  predecessor  for  his  skilful 
leadership  at  the  sixty-sixth  session.  We  wish  him 
well  in  his  future  endeavours.  To  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  we  pledge  our  support  for  his  valuable 
contribution  in  advancing  the  purposes  and  principles 
of the Organization.
In  his  annual  statement  last  week,  in  which  he 
introduced  the  2013  national  budget,  the  President  of 
Suriname  highlighted  Suriname’s  strengths  and  the 
opportunities and challenges we are facing as a young, 
vibrant  member  of  the  international  community.  As 
refiners and exporters of crude oil and its derivatives, as 
well as producers and exporters of gold, a combination 
of  windfalls  in  earnings  related  to  the  trade  of  those 
commodities  and  the  application  of  prudent  fiscal 
policies, have resulted in a politically and economically 
stable  environment.  That  stability  in  turn  has  become 
conducive  to  solid  domestic  and  foreign  investments 
in  the  more  sustainable  sectors,  in  which  agriculture 
President Bouterse also presented a social package 
in which education and health care figure prominently. 
He made the point that strong international ratings are 
encouraging  indicators  for  investors.  However,  the 
citizens  of  Suriname  who  lack  the  right  opportunities 
will share in the achievements only if the Government 
is able to present them with a package comprising job-
oriented education at an academic as well as a vocational 
level, adequate health services, sports facilities, access 
to  potable  water,  information  and  communications 
technology  facilities  and  proper  waste  disposal.  The 
challenge of financing such an improved social package 
makes  it  necessary  to  empower  our  production  and 
service  sectors  by  providing  funds  and  know-how  to 
our entrepreneurs.
Suriname,  as  a  young  nation,  is  experiencing  an 
ongoing  decolonization  process  that  involves  both  its 
structure  and  its  mindset.  Building  a  nation  of  half  a 
million people constitutes an enormous challenge when 
at  least  seven  different  ethnic  and  cultural  traditions 
originate from the Americas, Africa and Europe, while 
a considerable part of the population traces its roots to 
India, Indonesia, China and the Middle East. .
Suriname is known for the presence of a synagogue 
located  next  to  a  mosque  in  the  heart  of  the  capital 
Paramaribo,  while  Christian  churches  coexist  with 
Hindu  temples  and  places  of  worship  with  a  strong 
African  affinity.  We  are  proud  to  state  that  we  have 
been  able  to  convert  that  challenge  into  a  unique  and 
exemplary benefit and  that the divide-and-rule policy 
of colonial days is gradually disappearing, making way 
for mutual respect, tolerance and peaceful coexistence, 
which redound to the advantage of all our citizens.
Suriname  is  a  country  blessed  with  an  exuberant 
array of biodiversity. That splendid gift of the Almighty 
must  be  cherished  and  protected  to  the  fullest  extent. 
It  needs  to  be  mapped  out  in  a  way  that  allows  for 
responsible use. The challenge we face is responding to 
the  genuine  developmental  needs  of  our  people,  while 
at the same time respecting and preserving  biodiversity 
for future generations, and indeed for humankind.
My  country  has  committed  itself  to  that  cause 
by,  among  other  actions,  creating  a  nature  reserve  of 
1.8  million  hectares.  We  have  accepted  the  obligation 
12 
12-52563
to educate our small gold miners in the use of modern 
technology that will not only prove more lucrative and 
safe but also respect the need for a clean environment, 
allowing  for  potable  water  and  profitable  agriculture. 
Suriname must remain green and smart.
Suriname  is  very  much  aware  of  the  fact  that 
while  we  have  solid  advantages  as  a  nation,  we  can 
only survive and prosper by adapting to a world that is 
becoming more and more interdependent. Having been 
blessed  with  oil  reserves,  trillions  of  cubic  metres  of 
fossil  water  reserves,  along  with  hundreds  of  rivers, 
swamps,  creeks,  arable  land  and  minerals,  including 
gold,  copper,  granite,  rare  earth  and  more,  Suriname 
has  become  a  focal  point  in  view  of  the  ever-growing 
scarcity of those commodities.
In  order  to  maintain  and  enhance  our  political 
stability, we must deepen and widen our eco-commercial 
position  and  be  able  to  keep  our  country  and  people 
safe  from  any  outside  intervention  and  interference. 
Suriname has engaged in a serious quest for integration 
with  its  immediate  neighbours  —  Guyana,  France 
and  Brazil  —  at  a  bilateral  and,  wherever  possible, 
tripartite  level.  Suriname  is  also  a  devoted participant 
in the historic movement of regional integration that is 
growing in form and substance. We are active members 
of the Union of South American Nations, the secretariat 
of which will be based in Suriname as from July 2013.
We  are  committed  to  the  creation  of  a  Caribbean 
Community  multinational  corporation,  giving  a  more 
meaningful  basis  to  the  single  market  and  economic 
goals  put  in  place  since  2006.  As  one  of  the  founding 
members  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  we  continue  to  be  dedicated  to  the 
integration  mechanism  of  the  Americas,  remaining 
committed  to  the  principles  and  objectives  of  the 
Organization of American States. 
Although our region is making enormous strides in 
furthering democracy and development, we must draw 
the attention of the international community to the lack 
of progress in assisting one of the most disadvantaged 
countries  in  the  Western  Hemisphere,  namely  Haiti. 
We  call  on  the  international  community  to  honour  its 
pledges to assist the Government and people of Haiti in 
their efforts to rebuild their beloved country.
Furthermore,  our  quest  for  integration  will  never 
be complete if we continue to accept the isolation of our 
sister  nation,  Cuba,  as  a  consequence  of  the  unjustly 
imposed  economic  and  trade  embargo.  Once  again, 
A/67/PV.20
we firmly call for an immediate end of those coercive 
measures, which cause so much suffering to the people 
of Cuba.
When  Suriname  became  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations  36  years  ago,  we  were  little  aware  of  the 
importance  of  a  number  of  issues  not  specifically 
dealing  with  decolonization.  Now  we  have  grown 
in  our  understanding.  We  realize  that  a  properly 
functioning United Nations, including a democratically 
based  Security  Council,  has  the  potential  to  become 
the single most important stabilizing factor in a world 
that has moved from bipolarity to multipolarity. In the 
world  of  ever-shifting  economic,  political,  diplomatic 
and  military  Powers,  the  themes  of  the  sixty-seventh 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  were  appropriately 
chosen.
We  specifically  want  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  need  for  dialogue  in  situations  of 
conf lict. In our understanding, it is not easy for Powers 
that  have  grown  accustomed  to  controlling  other 
nations to grasp fully what it means to move away from 
dominance and dependence to interdependence and the 
need  for  dialogue  in  solving  real  or  alleged  conf licts. 
Both  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil clearly endorsed the concept in their 
statements at the opening of our general debate.
We  urge  all  Member  States  in  general  and  the 
former colonial Powers in particular to accept the new 
reality  of  our  world  by  categorically  refraining  from 
applying their own standards in judging the outcome of 
other countries’ democratic structures and aspirations, 
disrespecting the internationally accepted principles of 
territorial  integrity,  sovereignty  and  independence  of 
nations all over the world.
It is within that framework that I quote the closing 
remarks at the presentation of the 2013 national budget 
by  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of  the 
Republic of Suriname:
“As  regards  the  sovereignty  of  our  beloved 
Suriname  as  an  independent  nation,  our  principal 
task is none other than to respect and to defend the 
sovereignty of our nation against all violations and 
attacks from outside.
“Whenever  and  by  whomever  our  sovereignty 
is  being  challenged,  our  legitimate  Government 
has no other duty than to defend and safeguard the 
entrusted sovereignty of the country”.
12-52563
13
A/67/PV.20
The  United  Nations  was  built  on  the  ashes  of  the 
Second World War, and we pledged to save successive 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war.  The  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  is  the  only  avenue  through 
which we can ensure that the planet will be saved from 
annihilation.  That  principled  stand  must  be  applied 
to  all  areas  of  conf lict,  whether  the  conf lict  is  in  the 
Middle East, Africa, the Americas or anywhere else in 
the world.
The  target  date  for  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  fast  approaching.  The  year 
2015  will  be  a  decisive  year  when  world  leaders  will 
gather  once  again  to  assess  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments  made.  We  underscore  the  importance 
of  creating  well-being  for  all  and  providing  greater 
opportunities for the vulnerable in our society by giving 
full  access  to  high-quality  education  at  all  levels  and 
affordable and high-quality health care and services, as 
well  as  realizing  the  commitments  to  gender  equality 
and the empowerment of women.
It is necessary to increase the ability of women all 
over  the  world  to  bring  about  change,  to  ensure  that 
they  can  exist  in  an  environment  free  from  violence 
and  conducive  to  their  well-being,  including  access  to 
decent employment, services and housing.
We  acknowledge  the  global  burden  and  threat  of 
non-communicable  diseases.  In  moving  towards  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Political  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
(resolution 66/2, annex), as well as other commitments 
we have made, we stress the importance of multisectoral 
actions,  strengthening  health  systems,  ensuring  the 
availability  of  adequate  and  sustained  resources,  as 
well  as  enhanced  international  cooperation  through 
effective  partnerships.  Suriname  has  increased  its 
efforts in the fight against those often overlooked silent 
killers.
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  concluded  without  an  agreement  on  a 
clear  commitment  with  regard  to  the  financing  of 
sustainable development. That is a very serious matter, 
considering the threat of climate change, among others, 
to  a  successful  outcome  of  the  efforts  of  small  States 
like Suriname to achieve sustainable development. The 
international community cannot abandon its obligation 
to  provide  the  necessary  means  to  combat  the  serious 
consequences of overconsumption, pollution and carbon 
emissions,  which  threaten  to  undo  our  achievements 
aimed  at  protecting  the  environment  and  securing  the 
well-being  of  our  peoples.  We  continue  to  expect  the 
United  Nations  to  spearhead  the  efforts  for  technical 
assistance and to advance continued dialogue.
Suriname  is  deeply  concerned  with  regard  to  the 
basis on which countries in development are classified 
in  the  international  financial  institutional  framework. 
Such  classifications,  without  due  consultations, 
negatively  affect  the  type  and  level  of  assistance  that 
a  country  can  receive  from  international  financial 
institutions.  We  can  only  characterize  those  decisions 
as  undemocratic  and  as  a  virtual  punishment  of 
our  achievements  in  improving  our  socioeconomic 
situation.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  solemnly  declare  that 
Suriname  will  always  put  its  faith  in  multilateralism 
through  its  unwavering  support  for  the  principles 
and  objectives  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Joseph  Bandabla  Dauda,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the  Republic 
of Sierra Leone.
Mr.  Dauda  (Sierra  Leone):  It  is  a  distinct  honour 
for  me  to  convey  the  sincere  regrets  of  my  President, 
Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, who, on account of unavoidable 
circumstances, was unable to address the Assembly at 
its sixty-seventh session.
I  wish  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating 
the President on his election to direct the affairs of this 
session  and  to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  fullest 
support  and  cooperation  throughout  his  tenure.  Allow 
me to commend his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser, and to thank him for the skilful manner in 
which  he  efficiently  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  last 
session.  My  profound  appreciation  also  goes  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  tireless 
efforts in advancing the United Nations agenda to make 
the world a peaceful and safer place for humankind.
The President’s choice of the theme “Bringing about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means” is a timely wake-up call 
for the United Nations to fully embrace the fundamental 
principle upon which our Organization was established. 
Indeed,  only  with  such  adjustments  and  the  practical 
14 
12-52563
A/67/PV.20
manifestation of our collective commitment to peaceful 
coexistence  can  we,  as  a  global  family,  successfully 
tackle  the  myriad  of  prevailing  global  challenges. 
They include poverty, hunger, the gross and systematic 
violation  of  human  rights,  extremist  fundamentalism, 
terrorism and transnational organized crime, as well as 
the  reconstruction  and  strengthening  of  fragile  States 
and economies emerging from conf lict. In that context, 
we should remind ourselves that, a little over a year ago, 
the  Assembly  adopted  the  landmark  resolution  66/291 
on  mediation  that  recognizes  its  growing  usefulness 
as a means of preventing disputes from escalating into 
conf licts  and  as  a  cost-effective  tool  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes and the prevention of conf licts.
the  African  continent  continues 
Amid such security challenges and global economic 
to 
uncertainties, 
strive  hard  to  contain  and  to  address  the  resurgence 
of  conf licts  in  the  region  by  peaceful  means.  At 
the  regional  and  subregional  levels,  the  year  under 
review  has  been  marred  by  sporadic  terrorist  strikes 
by extremists, leading to the extensive loss of life and 
massive  destruction  of  property,  including  coveted 
world heritage sites, and the recent killing of the United 
States  Ambassador  and  three  other  Americans  in 
Libya. Sierra Leone strongly condemns such brutal and 
cowardly  acts  and  will  continue  to  work  closely  with 
all  partners,  particularly  within  the  framework  of  the 
Mano River Union, the Economic Community of West 
African States, the African Union (AU) and the United 
Nations, in seeking a lasting solution to that scourge.
Until  recently,  the  use  of  preventive  diplomacy  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
was  not  used  to  its  fullest  potential  by  the  United 
Nations  system.  Rather,  it  was  used  more  as  a  tool  in 
crisis  management.  I  am,  however,  heartened  by  the 
present impetus and would like to take this opportunity 
to  commend  the  role  of  the  Secretary-General,  his 
Special  Representatives  and  the  crisis-management 
operations  and  missions  around  the  world,  as  well  as 
the increasing role of the AU, subregional organizations 
and  international  contact  groups,  in  tackling  crisis 
situations that have emerged globally in recent times.
Sierra  Leone  will  continue  to  wholeheartedly 
embrace  mediation  and  other  conf lict-prevention 
initiatives  as  a  key  and  indispensable  tool  in  settling 
disputes and in preventing and resolving conf licts. The 
lessons learned from our experience have enhanced our 
conviction in the core principles of democracy, human 
rights and good governance as prerequisites for political 
stability, sustainable peace, security and development. 
We therefore remain strongly committed to the rule of 
law, respect for and the protection of human rights, gender 
equality, the empowerment of women, equal access to 
justice,  fighting  corruption  with  zero  tolerance  and 
pursuing the internationally agreed development goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
To that end, we are committed to ensuring participatory 
governance,  conducting  free,  fair,  transparent  and 
credible  elections,  and  combating 
transnational 
organized crime in all its forms.
Sierra  Leone  therefore  views  with  disappointment 
the fact that the United Nations Conference on the Arms 
Trade  Treaty  ended  without  a  negotiated  consensus 
on  the  treaty’s  adoption.  The  Sierra  Leone  delegation 
believes  that  we  must  all  earnestly  endeavour  to 
adopt  a  well-considered  and  balanced  treaty  with 
adequate provisions to effectively regulate the transfer 
of  conventional  weapons.  If  we  continue  to  delay 
in  that  respect,  we  face  the  risk  of  their  continuous 
use  in  committing  grave  violations  of  national  and 
international law, which has the potential to destabilize 
peace  and  security.  We  therefore  urge  Member  States 
to  consider  our  moral  obligation  to  humankind  as 
our  key  guiding  principle  and  to  sincerely  commit  to 
contributing  to  the  establishment  of  mechanisms  to 
prevent  the  diversion  of  such  weapons  into  the  illicit 
market.
In three years, we will reach the target date of 2015 
for the implementation of the Millennium Development 
Goals.  For  many  Member  States,  particularly  those 
of  the  global  South,  the  voyage  has  been  rough  and, 
at  times,  turbulent.  Worse  still,  the  effects  of  the 
food,  fuel  and  financial  crises  that  struck  the  global 
community  in  2008,  as  well  as  the  impact  of  climate 
change,  conf licts  and  deadly  pandemics,  have  further 
exacerbated 
the 
determination  and  efforts  of  developing  countries, 
especially  least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  to  attain 
the internationally agreed development goals, including 
the MDGs. 
the  situation  and  compromised 
f lexibility  during 
We  commend  Brazil  on  successfully  hosting 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20). We also applaud our solidarity 
and 
the  negotiation  process, 
enabling  the  incorporation  of  LDCs  and  conf lict-
affected  countries  in  the  Rio+20  outcome  document 
(resolution 66/288, annex). We look forward to a similar 
spirit of solidarity in defining sustainable development 
12-52563
15
A/67/PV.20
goals  that  take  on  board  the  concerns  of  the  most 
vulnerable members of the community of nations.
States  make  in  peacekeeping  operations  will  achieve 
their intended result.
Despite  the  onerous  challenges  facing  the  global 
community,  Sierra  Leone  has  recorded  significant 
progress  in  strengthening  its  political  and  economic 
governance,  including  the  improvement  of  its  social 
indicators.  We  have  made  substantial  progress  in 
implementing  the  President’s  Agenda  for  Change 
(2008-2012), which covers the priorities of our national 
development aspirations, as well as key peacebuilding 
priorities,  in  tandem  with  the  United  Nations  Joint 
Vision for Sierra Leone.
The  ongoing  foreign  direct  investment  in  various 
sectors  of  the  economy,  notably  the  mining  sector,  is 
brightening the prospects for the economy. Hopefully, 
it  will  place  Sierra  Leone  among  the  fastest  growing 
economies in the world in the next few years.
The  Agenda  for  Change  continues  to  provide  a 
strong  partnership  link  between  Sierra  Leone  and 
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  other  international 
development partners. To date, its implementation has 
had  a  great  impact  on  peacebuilding  and  on  laying 
the  foundations  for  sustainable  development  and  the 
consolidation of peace. 
Sierra  Leone  today  is  considered  a  showpiece  of 
best practices in donor coordination and a success story 
in peacebuilding. In that regard, we reiterate our call to 
the international community to continue to invest in our 
success  in  the  spirit  of  the  New  Deal  for  Engagement 
in  Fragile  States,  which  was  agreed  in  Busan,  and 
the  need  for  special  attention  to  be  paid  to  countries 
emerging  from  conf lict.  The  successor  development 
framework to our Agenda for Change, entitled Agenda 
for Prosperity, is anchored on the New Deal and is well 
under way.
In  its  short  existence  to  date,  the  peacebuilding 
architecture  has  proven  its  worth  as  envisaged  by  the 
leaders  at  the  2005  World  Summit,  whose  goal  was 
to  help  countries  emerging  from  conf lict  make  an 
irreversible  transition  from  war  to  sustainable  peace. 
As  one  of  the  first  countries  on  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  agenda,  Sierra  Leone  has  charted  a 
path  that  can  serve  as  a  learning  model  for  others.  In 
that  regard,  we  strongly  believe  that  strengthening 
peacebuilding  will  help  to  better  safeguard  countries 
from  relapsing  into  conf lict  and  sustain  peace  beyond 
the  life  of  peacekeeping  missions.  It  will  also  help 
ensure  that  the  enormous  investments  that  Member 
Sierra  Leone  continues  to  uphold  the  principles 
of  interreligious  tolerance,  peaceful  coexistence  and 
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. At 
the national level, we have enhanced political stability 
by strengthening good governance institutions, giving 
them sufficient leverage and latitude to deliver on their 
respective  statutory  mandates.  That  arrangement  has 
earned the Human Rights Commission of Sierra Leone 
an  “A  status”  accreditation  from  the  International 
Coordinating  Committee  of  National  Human  Rights 
Institutions.  In  that  regard,  we  remain  focused  on  our 
obligations to report to international treaty bodies and 
have therefore submitted our initial report with regard 
to  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights,  while  work  is  well  under  way  on  our  reports 
in  compliance  with  the  Convention  against  Torture 
and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or 
Punishment  and  the  African  Charter  on  Human  and 
Peoples’ Rights.
Along those lines, we recently established a national 
commission  for  disabled  persons,  consistent  with  the 
relevant provisions of the 2011 Disability Act, enacted 
the  2012  Sexual  Offences  Act  to  address  the  specific 
issue  of  sexual  violence  against  women  and  girls,  and 
passed into law the 2012 bill on arms and ammunition 
to  regulate  gun  ownership  so  as  to  ensure  compliance 
with the Economic Community of West African States 
Convention  on  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons.  A 
gender-equality bill is also in process for enactment.
I  commend  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  international  partners  for  the  work  of  the  Special 
Court  for  Sierra  Leone,  which  has  made  a  number 
of  critical  contributions  to  the  advancement  of  the 
rule  of  law  at  both  the  national  and  the  international 
levels. In particular, we compliment the Special Court 
for  bringing  to  trial  perpetrators  of  crimes  against 
humanity and violations of international humanitarian 
law  committed  in  Sierra  Leone  during  the  course  of 
our 11-year conf lict. Sierra Leone, the United Nations 
and  the  international  community  can  be  proud  of  the 
Special  Court’s  immense  achievements.  With  our 
continued  support,  the  Special  Court  can  complete  its 
remaining work.
President  Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  in  his  address  to 
the General Assembly at the opening of its sixty-sixth 
session,  underscored  the  imperative  of  peacefully 
16 
12-52563
settling  disputes  in  Africa  and  the  world  at  large 
by  emphasizing  that  the  world  is  so  interconnected 
in  trade,  politics  and  the  social  spheres  that  a  single 
nation’s  upheaval  could  affect  many  other  countries 
(see  A/66/PV.20).  It  is  against  that  background  that 
we,  as  a  country,  have  continued  to  nurture  closer 
ties  with  our  sister  States  in  the  Mano  River  basin  in 
order  to  deepen  cooperation  and  collaboration  and 
address  issues  of  common  concern,  ranging  from 
transnational  organized  crime  to  border  disputes. 
The  recent  decision  by  the  Presidents  of  Sierra  Leone 
and  her  sister  Republic  of  Guinea  to  demilitarize  the 
Yenga  border  area  and  establish  a  joint  committee  of 
the  two  countries  in  order  to  ensure  a  final  peaceful 
resolution of the Yenga problem is consistent with our 
commitment to the peaceful resolution of international 
disputes.  Indeed,  our  steadfast  commitment  to  global 
peace  and  security  is  evident  in  our  participation  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Lebanon, 
Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan and Timor-Leste.
2012 
presidential, 
The 
parliamentary 
and 
local  council  elections  scheduled  to  take  place  on 
17 November are barely 46 days away. With the support 
of our bilateral and multilateral partners, preparations 
are  in  full  swing  for  the  conduct  of  the  third  round  of 
such  elections  within  the  decade  following  the  end 
of  our  civil  conf lict.  The  Government  is  fully  aware 
that the conduct and outcome of the elections will be a 
critical benchmark for assessing the level of our gains 
in the area of peace consolidation and democracy. The 
Government, relevant stakeholders and our development 
partners  are  therefore  expressly  determined  to  exert  a 
collective effort and use every available opportunity to 
ensure  that  we  put  solid  mechanisms  in  place  for  the 
peaceful  conduct  and  achievement  of  transparent  and 
credible  democratic  elections.  It  is  in  that  regard  that, 
in  May  this  year,  all  key  stakeholders  in  the  country 
committed  themselves  to  a  credible  and  violence-free 
process  by  signing  the  declaration  on  the  2012 
Elections. We have thus consolidated the electoral laws 
and established electoral offences courts to ensure the 
legitimacy and credibility of the electoral process.
As Coordinator of the Committee of Ten Heads of 
State of the African Union for the reform of the United 
Nations Security Council, I am pleased to report to the 
General Assembly that, at the last AU Summit held in 
Addis  Ababa,  African  heads  of  State  reaffirmed  their 
strong  commitment  to  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration  containing  the  African  common 
position  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  To 
A/67/PV.20
that  end,  we  are  committed  to  building  alliances 
in  support  of  the  African  common  position  with 
various  interest  groups  and  Member  States  engaged 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  with  a  view  to 
achieving  reform  of  the  Security  Council  as  soon  as 
possible. In that pursuit, member States of the African 
Union  have  been  called  upon  to  include  the  issue  of 
Security  Council  reform  among  the  priorities  in  their 
foreign policies.
In  that  respect,  Africa  continues  to  engage  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  with  an  open-door 
policy  aimed  at  correcting  the  historical  injustice 
suffered by Africa as the only continent not represented 
in the permanent-member category of the Council and at 
the same time underrepresented in the non-permanent 
category.  Since  the  Security  Council  remains  at  the 
centre  of  global  governance  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  it  is  both  imperative 
and  compelling  that  the  international  community 
recognize  the  need  described  in  the  2005  World 
Summit  Outcome  to  make  the  Council  more  broadly 
representative,  efficient  and 
in  order 
to  enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  and 
implementation of its decisions, as well as the need to 
democratize the Council’s decision-making process and 
correct the lingering historical injustice inf licted upon 
the continent. In that regard, we urge the wider United 
Nations  membership  to  work  with  Africa  to  urgently 
address that injustice. Africa is not being unreasonable 
in its demand, and we all know that procrastination on 
the matter has led to a travesty of justice and fair play, 
which undermines the dignity of our peoples.
transparent 
We are determined at the national level to surmount 
all  impediments  on  our  way  to  development  and  to 
delivering  fully  on  all  the  projects  in  our  “Agenda  for 
Change”. We are confident that with sustained support 
from  our  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners,  we  shall 
promote  socioeconomic  progress  and  provide  a  better 
standard  of  living  for  our  people  in  an  atmosphere  of 
peace and security. What we cannot afford at this time 
in  our  history  is  to  fail  in  our  duty  and  obligation  to 
provide  peace,  security  and  sustainable  development 
for our people.
At  the  global  level,  as  we  look  at  the  work  that 
lies  before  the  sixty-seventh  session,  let  us  not  lose 
sight  of  our  shared  obligation  to  ensure  a  peaceful 
and secure world by resolving our differences through 
constructive dialogue and thus strengthen the existing 
12-52563
17
A/67/PV.20
mediation  mechanisms  provided  in  the  Charter  and 
institutionalized within the United Nations system.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
for 
Archbishop  Dominique  Mamberti,  Secretary 
Relations with States of the Holy See.
Archibishop Mamberti (Holy See) (spoke in French): 
As  I  congratulate  the  President  on  behalf  of  the  Holy 
See  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, I have the honour 
of  conveying  warm  greetings  from  His  Holiness  Pope 
Benedict XVI, who wishes for him and all members the 
blessings of all-powerful God.
At a time when the world is witnessing a disturbing 
increase  in  bloody  regional  conf licts,  the  Holy  See 
is  particularly  pleased  to  note  the  central  theme 
that  has  been  chosen  for  the  work  of  this  session, 
namely  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. 
Since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations,  a 
tight web of structured legal relationships has evolved, 
covering virtually every aspect of the relations between 
States  and  of  life  in  the  societies  within  States.  In 
that  regard,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
major human rights treaties and the treaties governing 
humanitarian  law,  along  with  the  Vienna  Conventions 
on  the  law  of  treaties  and  diplomatic  law  and  the  key 
conventions on disarmament, may be viewed as a nearly 
universal  legal  corpus  that  promotes  social  relations 
based on the law and that furthers durable peace.
That  is  a  historically  unprecedented  development 
and  a  genuine  achievement  of  the  United  Nations;  it 
stands  as  a  credit  to  the  United  Nations  and  certainly 
as one of its most successful achievements with respect 
to the aims enshrined in the Preamble and first Article 
of the Charter.  
the  course  of 
the  67  years  since 
Over 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
establishment  of 
the  world 
has  undergone  profound  transformation.    Growing 
technical  and  economic 
interdependence,  along 
with  the  exponential  development  of  new  forms  of 
communication,  has  led  to  the  advent  of  what  has 
commonly  been  known,  ever  since  the  middle  of  the 
twentieth  century,  as  the  global  village:  a  diverse  and 
continuously  evolving  village  that  has  experienced 
astonishing development but that has also seen terrible 
injustice. In that regard, the labour of legal construction 
undertaken by the United Nations is a worthy response 
that promotes the development of that global village, a 
response that deserves the continued and wholehearted 
support of Governments and social organizations.  
Human  history  has  always  presented  paradoxical 
or  conf lictive  situations  that  have  given  rise  to 
frustration  and  feelings  of  injustice.  Today,  in  a 
context  of  generalized  interdependence,  the  disparity 
between  wealth  and  poverty  is  more  pronounced  and 
unacceptable  than  ever.  The  disorderly  expansion  of 
technical and economic progress has intensified the gap 
between those who have the education and the means to 
advance  and  those  who  lack  both.  The  multiple  legal 
and economic ties that unite nations are not sufficiently 
just  and  equitable,  and  they  have  become  a  conveyor 
belt for the serious economic and financial crisis, which 
has  spread  as  quickly  as  a  forest  fire,  affecting  the 
most  vulnerable  first.  For  some  of  the  world’s  people, 
resorting to crime and terrorism or waging war in the 
name of ideological, ethnic or cultural beliefs seems to 
be  the  easiest,  if  not  the  only  available  way  to  escape 
poverty  and  become  the  heroes  of  the  global  village. 
Such  acts  of  violence  are  abetted  by  the  perverse  use 
of  communications  technology  and  by  the  excessively 
easy access to the tools of war.
If,  in  the  1990s,  the  state  of  legal  and  political 
progress allowed us to believe that the danger of nuclear 
war  had  receded,  today  the  likelihood  of  regional 
conf licts  with  unpredictable  outcomes  has  once  again 
created a threatening atmosphere that should impel us 
to intensify our efforts to establish a truly constructive 
dialogue within the international community. 
During  the  period  of  the  Cold  War,  the  United 
Nations was a meeting place and a point of discussion 
and  balance  between 
the  opposing  Powers.  The 
Organization  managed  to  support  the  decolonization 
and independence of a large number of new States and 
to mitigate, and even at times resolve, regional, bilateral 
and  civil  conf licts  in  a  context  that  was  nonetheless 
marked  by  severe  ideological  confrontation.  At  the 
same time, United Nations agencies made an important 
intellectual,  political  and  judicial  contribution  to  the 
universal recognition of human rights and strengthened 
cooperation  for  development  and  regional  economic 
integration.  Those  advances  constituted  fundamental 
progress  towards  strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  which 
itself  provides  a  favourable  framework  and  is  the  best 
guarantor  of  human  rights  and  peaceful  international 
cooperation.  
18 
12-52563
to  welcome 
of 
Allow  me  here 
the  High-level  Meeting 
the  Declaration 
of 
the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International  Levels  (resolution  67/1),  which  was 
adopted  at  the  beginning  of  this  session.  The  67 
years  since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
also  include  a  distinguished  history  of  humanitarian 
interventions,  peacekeeping  operations  and,  more 
recently,  peacebuilding  operations.  Also  of  special 
importance for the fate of humanity as a whole have been 
the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons and the activities of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  aimed  at  promoting  universal 
accession to the Treaty, controlling the implementation 
of the Treaty and facilitating international cooperation 
on the peaceful use of the atom.
Over the past 20 years, the United Nations, together 
with  regional  organizations,  has  made  an  essential 
contribution to resolving a number of urgent situations, 
particularly  in  Africa,  by  collaborating  with  the 
African Union and other institutions of that continent. 
Nonetheless,  the  current  reality  presents  us  with  a 
United Nations system without the strength of unity and 
persuasion  that  could  legitimately  be  expected  of  it;  a 
system in which, unfortunately, power relationships are 
played out to the benefit of specific strategic interests.
Yet the possibilities that emerged at the end of the 
Cold  War  seemed  to  portend  a  possible  strengthening 
of  the  institutional  and  political  presence  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  service  of  world’s  most  critical 
challenges, such as climate change and the preservation 
of  the  environment.  How  is  it  possible  that,  despite 
universal adhesion to the Charter of the United Nations 
and the essential treaties, we are still unable to establish 
a just and true form of global governance?  
The  Holy  See  would  like  to  offer  a  moral  answer 
to that question by calling attention to the importance 
of  the  values  that,  of  necessity,  underlie  all  human 
societies.  Indeed,  before  engaging  in  political  or 
technical considerations, it is important to ask whether 
the crises currently convulsing the planet are linked to 
a  crisis  of  trust  in  the  collective  values  enshrined  in 
the very Charter of the United Nations. Moreover, the 
question arises whether the crises aff licting the planet 
are  linked  to  a  serious  anthropological  crisis,  which 
is to say the lack of a shared understanding of what it 
means to be human. 
Today  we  are  witnessing  a  weakening  in  the 
practical  reach  of  the  purposes  and  principles  set 
A/67/PV.20
out  in  the  Preamble  and  Chapter  I  of  the  Charter. 
I  note  in  particular  saving  succeeding  generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war,  practicing  tolerance  with 
a  spirit  of  good-neighbourliness,  uniting  strength 
for  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  recourse 
to  peaceful  means  to  settle  disputes,  in  conformity 
with  the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law, 
and  cooperation  to  solve  international  problems  of  an 
economic,  social,  cultural  or  humanitarian  character 
and to promote and encourage respect for human rights 
and for fundamental freedoms. 
The  loss  of  trust  in  the  value  of  dialogue  and  the 
temptation  to  favour  a  priori  one  party  in  national 
or  regional  conf licts  endanger  respect  for  the  legal 
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations.  However,  the 
pre-eminence  of  the  values  affirmed  by  the  Charter 
should  lead  to  the  adoption  of  all  means  possible  to 
guarantee the protection of the most vulnerable, uphold 
the rule of law and human rights, and safeguard ancient 
cultural and religious balances. 
Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
The urgency of the situation is all the more obvious 
given  the  events  taking  place  in  the  Middle  East, 
especially  in  Syria.  There  can  be  no  solution  outside 
the  rules  of  international  law  and  humanitarian  law 
and  implementation  of  mechanisms  established  by  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  All  parties  concerned 
must  not  only  do  everything  possible  to  facilitate  the 
mission  of  the  Joint  Special  Representative  of  the 
United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, 
but  also  to  guarantee  humanitarian  aid  to  populations 
in distress. The international community must unite its 
efforts  to  ensure  that  all  parties  concerned  substitute 
negotiation for recourse to arms and demand effective 
respect  for  religious  freedom,  human  rights  and  all 
fundamental freedoms. 
As  Pope  Benedict  XVI  recently  reiterated  during 
his  trip  to  Lebanon,  we  should  import  ideas  of  peace 
and  creativity,  we  should  find  ways  of  accepting  each 
person  in  his  otherness,  we  should  therefore  make 
visible before the world the respect that religions have 
for one another, respect for man as a creature of God, 
and love of neighbour as fundamental to all religions. In 
that  way,  using  all  possible  means,  including  material 
assistance,  we  must  help  to  bring  an  end  to  war  and 
violence so that all can help rebuild the peace. On his 
return  from  Lebanon,  the  Holy  Father  called  on  Arab 
12-52563
19
A/67/PV.20
countries,  as  brothers,  to  propose  workable  solutions 
that  respect  the  dignity,  the  rights  and  the  religion  of 
every individual. Those who wish to build peace must 
cease to see in the other an evil to be eliminated. It is 
not easy to see in the other a person to be respected and 
loved, and yet that is necessary if one desires to build 
peace, if one desires fraternity.
Moreover,  only  an 
international  community 
strongly rooted in values that genuinely uphold human 
dignity  can  provide  viable  solutions  to  the  new  types 
of  conf lict  perpetrated  by 
transnational  groups, 
which  spread  a  pseudo-religious  hegemonic  ideology 
contemptuous of individual rights and civil peace. We 
think  of  the  instability  and  the  recent  terrorist  attacks 
in some countries of Africa and Asia, or the collusion 
between drug trafficking and terrorism in other regions 
of the world. 
Beyond  even  situations  of  conf lict,  today  all 
States,  rich  and  poor,  see  their  stability  threatened  by 
the  economic  crisis  to  which  no  true  and  sustainable 
solution  has  been  found  to  date.  Just  a  few  years 
ago  international  discussions  were  essentially  about 
potential  ways  to  share  the  resources  of  the  rich 
countries,  where  well-being  appeared  to  be  firmly 
established,  or  about  the  legitimate  recognition  of 
the  rights  of  developing  countries.  The  debate  was 
about  finding  the  right  balance  between  free  trade 
and  financial  assistance;  the  transfer  of  know-how, 
technologies and direct aid to the poorest populations; 
the clash of ideas about the foreign debt of the poorest 
countries; the role of the World Trade Organization and 
its  connections  to  the  United  Nations;  the  reform  of 
multilateral  financial  institutions;  and  comprehensive 
access to essential drugs. 
That  unavoidable  debate  must  be  continued,  even 
if today it is overshadowed and made more complex by 
the issues related to financial stability, whose impact is 
global. In fact, we can all see that the financial stability 
of  the  most  developed  societies  has  been  seriously 
endangered,  especially  because  of 
shortsighted 
economic  policies  often  based  only  on  maximizing 
short-term profits. 
The  threat  of  collapse  of  financial  systems  in 
economies  that  were  until  now  the  most  prosperous 
has serious consequences for social cohesion. It has led 
to  the  resurgence  of  old  fantasies  such  as  exacerbated 
nationalism, populism and xenophobia. Add to that the 
tragedy of millions of people weighed down by hunger, 
the lack of basic health care and abject poverty, as well 
as  of  vast  populations  living  in  inhuman  conditions, 
displaced  populations  and  refugees,  among  whom  are 
thousands of children. 
Given  the  difficulty  of  finding  common  solutions 
that  respect 
the  principles  of  self-determination, 
independence, and the equality of States and the right 
of peoples, the anthropological crisis of which I spoke 
has emerged, that is, a lack of conviction in the supreme 
dignity  of  every  individual,  even  when  they  have  just 
been conceived or are in a vegetative or terminal state. 
It  is  an  illusion  to  want  to  create  true  harmony 
among  peoples,  to  guarantee  peaceful  coexistence 
and  real  cooperation  between  States  if  we  confine 
ourselves  to  a  vision  of  mankind  that  —  without  in 
theory  denying  the  importance  of  the  dignity  and 
fundamental  rights  of  the  individual  —  consigns  the 
profound  dimension  of  the  person  and  his  uniqueness 
to  the  rank  of  secondary  factors,  and  insists  on  vague 
collective  concepts  that  reduce  the  individual  to  the 
simple category of consumer or agent of production in 
the  market.  A  human  being  is  not  a  mere  number  in 
the masses of the global population. And the masses of 
the global population cannot be viewed coldly or with 
suspicion as a danger threatening the environmental and 
social balances. We are talking about  men and women, 
each  with  dignity  and  rights.  Ideological  visions  that 
do not take that into account lead irreparably to social 
disintegration and conf lict.
In  that  sense,  we  must  reject  attempts  to  view  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  as  well  as  the  interpretation  of 
human  rights  treaties,  on  the  basis  of  a  limited  and 
relativist  vision  of  humankind  that,  cleverly  using 
ambiguous  expressions,  threatens  the  right  to  life  and 
presents a deconstruction of the family model based on 
the union of a man and a woman and oriented towards 
procreation  and  the  education  of  children.  In  the  end, 
those  attempts  risk  the  irremediable  weakening  of  the 
credibility  and  legitimacy  of  the  Organization  as  a 
universal tool for sustainable cooperation and peace. 
It is of the first importance to provide an effective 
solution  to  the  open  debate  on  the  reform  and 
improvement  of  the  functioning  of  United  Nations 
organs  in  order  to  revitalize  its  ability  to  anticipate 
conf licts  and  resolve  them  peacefully.  However,  that 
will be possible only with a constantly renewed effort 
to  return  to  the  founding  vision  of  the  Organization. 
20 
12-52563
Sustainable peace will not be possible without each and 
every  one  of  us  engaging  in  a  constructive  dialogue 
directed  toward  achieving  dignified  and  decent  living 
conditions for all human beings. 
That can be done only through a shared belief with 
regard  to  fundamental  values  that  guarantee  respect 
for  human  life.  In  that  regard,  respect  for  religious 
freedom is essential, within national public life as well 
as internationally. Reason tells us that each person has 
transcendental  dignity,  which  brings  with  it  freedom 
to  determine  one’s  own  ultimate  destiny  and  which 
national and international authorities, as well as social 
mechanisms,  must  fully  respect.  That  is  why  actions 
by  Governments  and  international  organizations  must 
necessarily  strive  to  promote  comprehensive  human 
development,  creating  legal,  economic  and  social 
conditions  that  genuinely  ref lect  the  importance  of 
human  dignity  and  its  transcendental  dimension,  both 
at the personal level and collectively. 
Religion  should  not  be  thought  of  other  than  as 
a  factor  of  peace  and  progress,  a  living  force  for  the 
well-being  of  all.  Indeed,  it  leads  human  beings  to 
overcome every egotistical interest and to devote their 
energies  to  the  service  of  others,  including  for  peace 
among  peoples.  That  is  why  all  forms  of  fanaticism 
and  exclusivism  and  all  acts  of  violence  towards 
one’s  neighbour  are  an  exploitation  of  and  a  deviation 
from  religion.  Moreover,  history  has  shown  that  a 
biased  concept  of  secularism,  or  tolerance  that  would 
limit  religious  matters  to  the  private  sphere,  can  only 
undermine  the  bases  for  peaceful  coexistence,  at  both 
the national and international levels. 
The  Holy  See  has  been  involved  in  international 
cooperation  activities  since  they  were  first  given 
institutional  structure.  We  established  our  Permanent 
Mission to the United Nations in New York in 1964. The 
reason for its presence as a subject of international law in 
this intergovernmental institution is first of all its desire  
to offer to the international community a transcendent 
view of life and social relations, recalling in particular 
the  dignity  of  the  individual  and  his  fundamental 
rights, in the first place the right to religious freedom. 
The  international  community  has  always  welcomed 
this  contribution,  which  allows  common  initiatives 
to  put  back  into  a  profound  perspective,  in  which  the 
underlying  unity  of  the  human  family  and  the  call  to 
the generosity of individuals and peoples must always 
be reaffirmed.
A/67/PV.20
The President took the Chair.
It is in that spirit that the Holy See wishes to offer 
its  contribution  to  the  present  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, aligning itself with the wish you expressed in 
your inaugural address, Mr. President, that all Member 
States, which share the responsibility to implement the 
principles  and  objectives  of  the  Organization,  would 
renew their commitment to resolve disputes by peaceful 
dialogue  and  not  by  resorting  to  confrontation.  Only 
in  that  way  will  the  aspirations  and  hopes  of  all  be 
achieved. Only in that way can the United Nations play 
its indispensable role in peace and development.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Pak Kil Yon, Vice-Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr. Pak Kil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea) (spoke in Korean; English interpretation provided 
by the delegation):  Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, 
on your election to preside over the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  expect  your  proficient 
stewardship will guide the Assembly to success.
At the outset, I would like to express our profound 
gratitude  to  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  and 
peoples  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  Secretary-General,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  representatives 
of  United  Nations  bodies  and  of  many  countries  for 
deep condolences they extended to us at the demise in 
December  last  year  of  the  great  leader  of  our  people, 
Kim  Jong  Il.  General  Kim  Jong  Il  devoted  tireless 
efforts  until  the  last  moment  of  his  life  to  firmly 
safeguarding the dignity and sovereignty of our country 
and the prosperity and happiness of its people, as well 
as  to  accomplishing  the  cause  of  global  independence 
and world peace and stability. 
Today,  having  hailed  dear  respected  Marshal  Kim 
Jong Un as the Supreme Leader of the Party, State and 
Army,  our  people  are  striving  to  build  a  prosperous 
and  powerful  socialist  State.  Dear  respected  Marshal 
Kim Jong Un safeguards the peace and stability of the 
Korean  peninsula  by  carrying  forward  the  Songun 
policy of General Kim Jong Il in good faith. He wisely 
leads  the  general  advance  march  for  developing  our 
economy,  improving  people’s  livelihood,  and  devising 
a development strategy of our own style and innovative 
methods with his insight into the world.
12-52563
21
A/67/PV.20
Our dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un is firmly 
determined  to  make  our  people,  who  have  overcome 
manifold  hardships,  enjoy  a  happy  life  to  their  heart’s 
content in a prosperous socialist State. Dear respected 
Marshal  Kim  Jong  Un  is  implementing  independent 
foreign  policy  and  opening  up  a  new  chapter  in  the 
development  of  relations  with  other  countries  that  are 
friendly to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
not  bound  by  the  past.  Our  people  are  following  dear 
respected Marshal Kim Jong Un with absolute trust in 
him  and  are  vigorously  advancing  to  the  final  victory 
with full conviction in and optimism about the future, 
single-heartedly united behind him.
The  founding  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  last 
century  gave  hope  to  mankind  following  a  tragic 
world  war  —  hope  of  achieving  common  prosperity 
by  ensuring  peace  and  security  and  developing 
cooperation  among  States  based  on  the  principle  of 
sovereign  equality.  Yet  today,  after  the  first  decade 
of the new century, that desire of the mankind has yet 
to  be  achieved.  At  present  in  international  relations, 
high-handedness  and  arbitrariness  are  becoming  ever 
more  undisguised,  and  the  use  of  force  and  acts  of 
State  terrorism  aimed  at  infringing  on  sovereignty, 
interference  in  internal  affairs  and  effecting  regime 
change  are  being  perpetrated  under  such  pretexts  as 
non-proliferation and humanitarian intervention.
integrity  of  Syria  and  the  right  to  self-determination 
and existence of Palestine should be rejected.
Democratizing 
the  United  Nations  and, 
in 
particular,  strengthening  the  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly  are  urgent  issues  for  enhancing  the  central 
role of the United Nations in international relations. 
The  Assembly  resolution  adopted  long  ago  on 
dismantling  the  so-called  United  Nations  Command 
stationed  in  South  Korea  and  the  resolution  adopted 
annually on ending the United States blockade against 
Cuba  remain  unimplemented.  These  are 
typical 
examples that show the need to strengthen the authority 
of the General Assembly.
It is quite natural for the General Assembly, which 
represents  the  general  will  of  all  Member  States,  to 
supervise the overall activities of the Organization. In 
particular, it should be given the authority to undertake 
final review of Security Council resolutions related to 
peace and security, such as sanctions and use of force. 
The abuse of the Security Council as a tool for pursuing 
strategic  interests  by  a  handful  of  countries  should 
never be overlooked. Last April, the United States took 
issue  with  our  legitimate  and  peaceful  space  launch, 
which followed universal international law, and forced 
the  Council  to  adopt  an  unjust  statement.  That  alone 
shows how the Council has been abused.
We  are  now  witnessing  the  resurrection  of  the 
outdated  international  relations  of  the  first  half  of  the 
twentieth  century,  when  a  handful  of  great  Powers 
dominated  the  world  by  resorting  to  the  use  of  force. 
This resurrection tarnishes the credibility of the United 
Nations, whose mandate is to ensure global peace and 
security.
Security  Council  reform,  which  is  at  the  core  of 
overall  United  Nations  reform,  is  a  matter  that  should 
no  longer  be  delayed.  It  should  be  carried  out  in  a 
manner  that  guarantees  responsibility,  transparency, 
impartiality and objectivity in its activities and ensures 
full  representation  of  developing  countries  in  its 
composition.
The fact that the theme “Bringing about adjustment 
or settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful  means”  was  chosen  for  the  current  session 
shows  the  seriousness  of  the  current  international 
situation.  The  most  serious  issue  in  the  international 
arena at present is a f lagrant violation of the principles 
of  respect  for  sovereignty  and  equality.  Unless  the 
high-handedness and arbitrariness of certain countries 
are  thoroughly  eliminated,  it  will  be  hard  to  say  that 
the United Nations is fulfilling its role and function as 
a centre for coordinating cooperative relations between 
States  based  on  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
The  unjustifiable  interference,  pressure  and  use 
of  force  that  violate  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
Other  United  Nations  bodies  in  which  double 
standards and the theory of force are extremely evident 
are the Third Committee of the General Assembly and 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  Politicization,  selectivity 
and double standards in deliberations on human rights 
should  be  put  to  an  end.  We  should  never  allow  the 
continuation  of  the  practice  whereby  human  rights 
situations  of  selected  countries  are  either  called  into 
question  or  simply  ignored  in  accordance  with  the 
political  purposes  and  interests  of  the  West  and  the 
Western standard values.
In  the  field  of  sustainable  development,  which 
is  now  one  of  the  three  targets  set  by  the  United 
Nations,  the  agreement  reached  in  the  United  Nations 
22 
12-52563
Conference on Sustainable Development, held last June 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  should  be  implemented.  Practical 
measures  should  be  taken  to  solve  such  issues  as 
establishing  fair  international  economic  and  trade 
relations,  fulfilling  official  development  assistance 
commitments, 
transferring  environmentally  clean 
technologies to developing countries and strengthening 
financial support.
Today,  due  to  the  ongoing  hostile  policy  of 
the  United  States  towards  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  a  vicious  cycle  of  confrontation 
and  aggravation  of  tension  continues  to  aff lict  the 
Korean peninsula, which has become the world’s most 
dangerous hotspot, a place where a spark could set off 
a thermonuclear war. At the root of that hostile policy, 
which has lasted for more than half a century, towards 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  lies  the 
intention of the United States to destroy the ideas and 
system our people have chosen and to occupy the entire 
Korean peninsula, in order to use it as a stepping stone 
in realizing its strategy of dominating all of Asia.
Since the day the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea was founded, the United States has designated it 
an enemy and refused to recognize its sovereignty. Since 
then, it has pursued every kind of sanction, pressure and 
military  provocation  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  for  more  than  half  a  century.  Its 
hostile policy is most deeply rooted in the military field. 
No  precedent  can  be  found  in  modern  history  for  the 
situation whereby the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea and the United States have continued as warring 
parties  after  hostilities  ended  and  for  more  than  60 
years altogether.
With a view to eliminating the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  by  force,  the  United  States  has 
already finalized various war scenarios, and is waiting 
for a chance to implement them, as it has outlined in a 
contingency plan to impose military rule after a military 
invasion.  In  accordance  with  those  plans  for  military 
operations,  the  United  States  has  staged  various  joint 
military exercises under different names in and around 
the  Korean  peninsula  for  several  decades.  A  typical 
example was a combined military exercise named Ulji 
Freedom Guardian, staged at the end of last August and 
involving huge numbers of armed forces, which pushed 
the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  to  the  brink  of 
war.
It  is  only  the  patience  and  military  deterrent  self-
defence  capacity  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
A/67/PV.20
of  Korea  that  have  prevented  the  continued  military 
provocations of the United States from turning into all-
out  war  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  However,  this  does 
not mean that the patience of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  inexhaustible.  Our  people  value 
peace  and  stability  in  pursuing  their  overall  goal  of 
building  a  prosperous  and  powerful  State.  But  the 
dignity of our nation and the sovereignty of our country 
are even more valuable.
Our  principled  stand  is  based  on  reacting  to  an 
aggressor’s  reckless  provocations  with  an  immediate, 
corresponding strike in defence of our nation’s dignity 
and sovereignty, and to respond to a war of aggression 
with  a  just  war  of  reunification  of  the  country.  The 
realities  of  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
prove  that  we  have  been  absolutely  right  to  have  built 
a  military  deterrent  capacity  for  our  self-defence,  by 
tightening  our  belts  in  order  to  pursue  the  path  of 
Songun and independence. Our military deterrent is a 
mighty weapon that defends the country’s sovereignty 
and a powerful means of preventing war on the Korean 
peninsula,  as  well  as  a  strong  guarantee  that  enables 
us  to  focus  our  efforts  on  economic  construction  and 
improving people’s livelihoods.
The  only  way  to  prevent  war  and  ensure  lasting 
peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  to  put  an  end  to 
the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States  towards  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  That  policy 
is  the  root  cause  that  has  made  the  Korean  peninsula 
the world’s most dangerous hotspot, and it is the chief 
obstacle  to  lasting  peace  and  security.  The  nuclear 
issue on the Korean peninsula is also a product of that 
policy.  None  of  these  problems,  including  the  Korean 
peninsula  nuclear  issue,  can  be  resolved  without  first 
ending  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States,  which 
views the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea as an 
enemy target and tries to stif le it at any cost. That is the 
essence of the process of our dialogue with the United 
States  and  a  lesson  we  have  drawn  from  practical 
experience.
Since  the  turn  of  the  new  century,  North-South 
summit meetings have been held twice, amid the joyful 
enthusiasm of all our fellow countrymen. They resulted 
in  the  adoption  of  the  15  June  North-South  Joint 
Declaration and the 4 October Declaration, and created 
an  atmosphere  in  which  the  desire  for  reconciliation, 
cooperation and reunification between North and South 
reached a peak. Soon after taking office, however, the 
new South Korean authorities annulled all inter-Korean 
12-52563
23
A/67/PV.20
the  United  Nations.  Furthermore, 
agreements,  including  the  15  June  North-South  Joint 
Declaration and the 4 October Declaration, which had 
been warmly welcomed and were fully supported by the 
entire Korean nation and the international community, 
including 
the 
confrontation between fellow countrymen and systems 
have  caused  an  extreme  deterioration  in  inter-Korean 
relations.  The  South  Korean  authorities  rubbed  salt  in 
the wounds of our people, who had suffered such a huge 
national loss, even insulting our supreme dignity with 
acts  of  political  terrorism,  and  leaving  inter-Korean 
relations  totally  bankrupt.  History  will  bring  them  to 
justice.
The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  will  join  hands  with  anyone  who 
truly  desires  the  country’s  reunification  and  national 
reconciliation  and  prosperity.  With  responsibility  and 
patience, and relying on the nation’s concerted efforts, 
it  is  making  every  effort  to  realize  the  historic  cause 
of national reunification by preventing interference by 
outside  forces  and  any  attempt  by  anti-reunification 
forces to achieve permanent national division.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
continue to further strengthen and develop the relations 
of  friendship  and  cooperation  with  all  countries  that 
respect  its  sovereignty,  pursuant  to  the  principles 
of  independence,  peace  and  friendship  on  which  its 
foreign policy is based, and will actively cooperate with 
the efforts of United Nations Member States to secure 
world  peace  and  stability  and  to  achieve  sustainable 
development.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Marco  Albuja,  Vice  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and Political Integration of Ecuador.
(Ecuador) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Albuja 
in  Spanish): 
Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to  extend  to  you  the 
congratulations of the Government of Ecuador on your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-seventh  session,  for  which  we  will  provide 
whatever  support  you  need  to  help  achieve  the 
international  agenda’s  commitments,  especially  those 
that have to do with revitalization of the Assembly.
We  are  participating  in  this  important  forum  with 
the clear purpose of sharing our ideas and proposals for 
the  international  system  that  governs  us.  We  are  well 
aware  that  the  United  Nations  system  was  conceived 
in the middle of the last century and that its structure 
is  based  on,  among  other  things,  the  principles  of 
humanism,  multilateralism  and  the  equality  of  States 
before  the  law.  Since  then,  the  great  majority  of 
countries have fought to see those principles complied 
with,  but  there  have  also  been  countries  whose  power 
has  wrongfully  enabled  them    to  fail  to  live  up  to  the 
principles and to their obligations within the system.
The  world  has  changed  substantially  since  the 
road map for the United Nations was designed, and its 
functions must adapt to the new demands of international 
relations,  characterized  by  exchanges  of  information 
and communications and by interdependent economies. 
We  believe  the  time  has  come  to  end  the  illegitimate 
political  exploitation  of  United  Nations  bodies  by 
certain  Powers,  which  continue  to  exert  political  and 
economic  pressure  and  even  to  intervene  militarily 
in  sovereign  States  whose  Governments  criticize  the 
international status quo or focus on different ideologies 
from those promoted by some Powers, or whose public 
policies are opposed to the economic interests of large 
transnational  companies.  Such  pressure  delegitimizes 
the system and distorts multilateralism itself.
In  the  five  years  of  President  Rafael  Correa’s 
Government,  Ecuador  has  regained  sovereignty  in 
decision-making  on  its  internal  and  international 
policies,  pursuing  decisions  that  promote  a  horizontal 
relationship between countries with the same rights and 
obligations. In those five years Ecuador has supported 
peace.  That  is  why  we  have  expressed  our  concern 
about the terrible consequences for human beings that 
result  from  military  interventions  conducted  by  the 
Powers,  and  why  we  are  calling  loudly  for  dialogue 
and for respect for human rights and the people’s self-
determination  in  all  countries  in  conf lict.  We  have 
had enough of geopolitical visions that are imposed by 
force, destroying human rights. In that regard, Ecuador 
welcomes with great hope and enthusiasm the dialogue 
process  in  the  sister  Republic  of  Colombia,  which  is 
the  bravest  step  that  the  Government  of  that  fraternal 
country could have taken.
Today  the  world  is  experiencing  constant  changes 
in the distribution of power. New regional Powers have 
emerged  in  the  past  20  years  and  have  begun  to  play 
a  decisive  role  in  international  politics  and  security. 
Russia,  China,  India,  Brazil,  Mexico,  South  Africa, 
Argentina,  Indonesia,  Venezuela  and  the  developing 
world,  in  general,  are  now  the  drivers  of  the  global 
economy.  It  is  therefore  a  political  imperative  that 
multilateralism  be  strengthened  and  promoted  with 
regard to respect and equality among States. 
24 
12-52563
It  is  important  to  point  out  that  Latin  American 
countries  committed  to  multilateralism,  in  response 
to  unilateral  actions  that  undermine  international 
stability,  have  established  regional  institutions,  such 
as  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America  —  Peoples’  Trade  Agreement  (ALBA),  the 
Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) and the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States. 
Such  bodies  are  restoring  the  principle  of  universal 
representation in global governance and endowing it with 
new characteristics so as to adjust it to today’s political 
and  social  reality.  However,  while  such  countries  and 
organizations seek to keep the institution of inter-State 
work alive, the continuing unilateral actions of certain 
Powers  without  consultation  jeopardize  the  ability  of 
multilateral  bodies  to  provide  legitimate  and  valid 
responses to international needs and problems.
In 
that 
that  context,  Ecuador  believes 
the 
weakening of the decision-making system in the United 
Nations  undermines  international  law.  Open  dialogue 
is  therefore  needed  in  order  to  effectively  reform  our 
Organization.  We  believe  that  it  is  time  to  begin  a 
structural  reform  of  the  United  Nations  that  makes  it 
more  democratic  and  up  to  date  and  that  prevents  the 
political  and  illegal  use  of  its  bodies.  The  system  will 
be truly democratic, as it claims to be, when everyone 
accepts  that  each  country  has  a  vote  and  that  the 
majority  decides  in  a  democratic,  free  and  sovereign 
way,  without  a  small  group  of  States  that  represents 
2.5  per  cent  of  the  Organization’s  membership  being 
able to veto the remaining 97.5 per cent.
international  social 
We must of course restore the fundamental principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  legal  equality  of 
States, 
justice,  unconditional 
respect for international law, the protection and defence 
of  all  human  rights,  cooperation  and  the  promotion 
of  the  mutual  interests  of  nations,  respect  for  the 
sovereignty  of  States,  the  free  self-determination  of 
peoples,  non-intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
other States, the elimination of wars of aggression and 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  through  dialogue, 
without recourse to the threat or, worse still, the use of 
force.  But,  above  all,  we  must  restore  the  principle  of 
collective  action.  As  a  result,  we  must  give  it  values, 
such as democracy, universality and supranationality. 
In  order  to  be  effective  and  efficient  in  its  work 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  stability,  the  new 
multilateralism  should  not  uphold  the  veto  power  or 
the  existence  of  an  exclusive  club,  whose  members 
A/67/PV.20
are a small group of countries that decide the system’s 
future  and  other  measures  that  affect  the  remaining 
countries. The new system would require all countries, 
as equals, to be equally represented in decision-making 
that  affected  the  international  system.  It  should  not 
allow  non-compliance  with  international  standards  by 
some  States,  but  must  rather  demand  strict  adherence 
to  international  law  and  full  respect  for  international 
judicial authority as the only way of promoting peaceful 
coexistence among nations.
Ecuador supports the comprehensive reform of the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  democratization  of  the 
international  decision-making  bodies.  We  advocate 
a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
includes decisions on membership categories, the veto 
issue, regional representation, the size of an expanded 
Security  Council  and  its  working  methods,  and  its 
relationship  with  the  General  Assembly  —  in  other 
words,  a  comprehensive  change  in  its  composition 
and  operation.  The  idea  is  to  make  the  Council 
representative,  democratic  and  effective  to  enable 
the  international  community  to  have  an  appropriate 
collective  security  system.  We  believe  that  we  must 
work  on  that  proposal,  study  it,  discuss  it  and  decide 
on it together.
Our  country  also  calls  for  a  comprehensive 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  propose 
that its role as the main depositary of global sovereignty 
be  fully  recognized  within  the  United  Nations  system 
since it is only there that all members are represented. 
The  General  Assembly  should  therefore  have  the 
ability  to  discuss  and  take  binding  decisions  on  all 
significant issues on the international agenda, including 
international peace and security.
An example of the imbalance and lack of democracy 
of the current United Nations system that clearly ref lects 
the urgent need for its reform is the situation in which 
the abhorrent blockade on the sisterly Republic of Cuba 
continues  because  an  economic  and  military  Power  is 
able  to  impose  its  will  and  political  view  despite  the 
contrary  decision  of  186  countries.  Then  again,  the 
United  States  cannot  continue  to  include  Cuba  on  its 
spurious list of countries that sponsor terrorism simply 
because of an ideological unwillingness to accept that 
the island has survived its forced isolation. Arbitrariness 
has played a great part in that issue.
Cuba has declared that its territory has never been 
used  nor  ever  will  be  used  to  organize,  finance  or 
carry  out  terrorist  acts  against  any  country,  including 
12-52563
25
A/67/PV.20
the  United  States.  Similarly,  the  prominent  former 
United States President, Jimmy Carter, has stated that 
the  role  of  Havana  as  a  guarantor  in  the  peace  talks 
between  the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de 
Colombia  and  the  Colombian  Government  refutes  any 
argument  about  the  need  for  Cuba  to  remain  on  that 
list. The former President, whom we consider a friend 
of  the  Latin  American  cause,  said  that  a  more  sincere 
dialogue could take place between the two countries if 
the United States were to remove Cuba from its list of 
State sponsors of terrorism. We share and support that 
view.
Consistent  with  Ecuador’s  recognition  of  the 
Palestinian  State  within  the  1967  borders  and  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  my  country  supports 
the  inclusion  of  Palestine  as  a  full  Member  of  the 
Organization. Likewise, Ecuador reiterates its support 
for  the  historic  rights  of  the  Argentine  Republic  over 
the  Malvinas  Islands.  The  specific  and  anachronistic 
situation  of  those  Islands  should  pave  the  way  for 
renewed direct negotiations with the United Kingdom, 
as  called  for  by  Argentina.  That  appeal  has  been 
reiterated  in  several  resolutions  of  the  relevant  United 
Nations bodies.
For Ecuador, it is essential that disputes, including 
those  related  to  borders,  be  resolved  peacefully. 
Ecuador has successfully achieved that.
to  strengthen 
Ecuador  has  also  worked 
the 
fundamental  institutions  of  international  law,  such  as 
the  inviolability  of  diplomatic  missions,  as  provided 
for  in  the  1961  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic 
Relations.  I  wish  to  recall  that,  a  few  weeks  ago,  the 
Government of Ecuador had an unexpected diplomatic 
dispute  with  the  Government  of  the  United  Kingdom 
on  exactly  that  issue.  In  response,  Ecuador  advocated 
that  various  multilateral  forums  adopt  resolutions 
affirming  that  principle  of  international  law.  We  must 
say  with  deep  gratitude  that  Ecuador  received  the 
resolute support of the Governments of States members 
of UNASUR, ALBA and the Organization of American 
States  and  of  other  Governments,  such  as  that  of 
Russia, condemning any attempt at forced entry into or 
violation of diplomatic premises. 
of  Ecuador 
The  Government 
accordingly 
condemned  the  terrible  events  of  11  September,  when 
the  United  States  diplomatic  mission  and  consulate  in 
Cairo  and  Benghazi  were  attacked  by  armed  groups 
with  a  tragic  loss  of  life,  including  that  of  the  United 
States  Ambassador  to  Libya,  Christopher  Stevens. 
Ecuador  stands  in  solidarity  with  the  people  of  the 
United States and reaffirms its condemnation of those 
violent  acts  against  United  States  personnel  in  Libya 
and Egypt. Once again, we declare our respect for the 
inviolability of the premises of diplomatic missions.
My  country  believes  that  it  is  essential  for 
international organizations to support and promote the 
observance and development of all human rights. That 
should be their ultimate objective, not just a politically 
correct way to make a discussion attractive or to justify 
implementing  a  geopolitical  outlook  on  different 
cultural  realities.  Human  rights  are  a  principle  that  is 
lived  every  day  and  that  is  constantly  developed  and 
upheld.  It  is  a  principle  including  all  of  humankind 
with no exception, no discrimination, no categories and 
no prioritization. The principle admits no reservations 
or  double  standards.  It  is  either  completely  defended 
and  we  submit  to  it,  or  it  is  rejected.  But  conditioned, 
partial compliance is not admissible. We are, of course, 
speaking of the progressive development of international 
and  national  instruments  governing  human  rights  and 
the  legal  international  bodies  that  ensure  compliance 
with those instruments.
To write on paper that all men and women around 
the  world  are  equal  without  applying  it  in  practice  is 
nothing  but  hypocrisy.  Human  rights,  as  a  whole,  can 
be  summarized  in  the  right  to  life.  The  question  is: 
how  many  thousands  of  human  beings  must  continue 
to  be  sacrificed  in  the  name  of  the  abstract  principle 
without understanding, without really feeling what the 
concept  is.  When  will  humanity  ask,  for  example,  if 
the defence of democracy in its Western version or the 
accumulation of transnational capital and the expansion 
of  organized  crime  constitute  sufficient  justification 
for the sacrifice of tens of thousands of human lives or 
for the destruction of the planet.
In  order  to  guarantee  the  rights  of  human  beings, 
deepen  their  social  and  economic  development,  and 
achieve  the  harmony  of  nature  while  being  fully 
responsible  towards  all  generations,  Ecuador  has 
changed  some  traditional  policies  since  the  adoption 
of  the  new  Ecuadorian  Constitution  in  2008.  We 
understand that we must overcome the archaic concept 
that  the  rule  of  law  consists  of  laws  carved  in  stone 
that  were  approved  at  some  time  in  history  but  are 
obsolete  and  out  of  date  today.  The  law  cannot  be 
abstract, because in essence it is a living thing needed 
to  give  security  to  human  beings,  and  it  cannot  be 
26 
12-52563
divorced  from  reality.  That  is  why  we  also  advocate 
that  the  standards  that  are  part  of  international  legal 
coexistence should be discussed and updated, because 
their forced application leads to chaos and weakens the 
rule of international law.
From  that  point  of  view,  our  Constitution  calls 
on  us  to  live  in  a  constitutional  State  of  rights  and 
guarantees. The fundamental objective is what is called 
in  the  Quechua  language  sumak  kawsay,  or  “the  right 
to  a  good  life”  of  people  and  nature,  knowing  how  to 
live  fully,  without  any  discrimination.  It  is  based  on 
dignity,  solidarity,  equality  and  the  complementarity 
of people, cultures, nationalities, people’s social groups 
and countries in general.
It is the commitment to being human that calls on 
us to encourage tolerance, respect and full support for 
everybody,  especially  those  aff licted  with  disabilities. 
Ecuador  has  been  nationally  recognized  on  that  front, 
because,  in  the  last  five  years,  it  has  maintained 
the  highest  ratings  for  effectiveness  in  programme 
support and reintegration into daily life of our brothers 
and  sisters  with  disabilities.  The  strength  of  our 
Vice-President  Lenín  Moreno  Garcés  in  his  battle 
against  discrimination  against  people  with  disabilities 
has made it possible for him to be globally recognized. 
Admiration  of  his  programmes  has  led  to  his  being 
nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.
Since  human  beings  are  at  the  centre  of  the 
covenant of the popular revolution, we have given full 
support  to  those  who  suffer  persecution  because  of 
their political ideas and sexual preferences. My country 
has  the  largest  number  of  refugees  in  Latin  America 
and  one  of  the  largest  numbers  in  the  entire  Western 
hemisphere.  Almost  60,000  people  living  in  Ecuador 
are  refugees.  We  also  have  around  500,000  economic 
migrants.  That  has  led  to  recognition  and  expressions 
of gratitude by United Nations bodies. Because people 
in  the  situation  of  being  refugees  and  asylum-seekers 
have  been  incorporated  into  Ecuadorian  society,  they 
receive  political  and  social  protection  as  well  as  an 
economic subsidy from the Ecuadorian State.
Social groups that traditionally were discriminated 
against  in  Ecuador  for  ethnic  or  cultural  reasons  have 
also seen a substantial improvement in their situation. 
That  is  shown  by  the  indicators  for  education,  health 
and housing. But above all, President Rafael Correa has 
stressed  that  action  to  benefit  the  poorest  is  the  main 
objective  of  State  policy.  The  incorporation  of  social 
groups  into  the  active  life  of  the  country  has  taken 
A/67/PV.20
place,  with  full  respect  for  their  ancestral  culture  and 
their traditions, customs, beliefs and political views.
the  countries 
We  are  also  one  of 
that  has 
strengthened  gender  equality,  the  development  of  the 
rights  of  women,  and  the  application  of  affirmative 
action  measures  that  cut  across  public  policies  in  all 
the  functions  of  our  Government.  However,  those 
successful changes have led to a reaction from sectors 
of  traditional  power,  both  inside  and  outside  Ecuador. 
Just  yesterday,  we  noted  the  second  anniversary  of  an 
attempted  coup  d’état  and  assassination.  But  things 
have  changed.  The  empowerment  of  citizens  fully 
identified with the Government has made it possible to 
overcome  this  year’s  crisis  as  well  as  an  international 
media campaign of criticism and misinformation on the 
activities and achievements of our country.
I  would  like  to  highlight  from  this  rostrum  that 
Ecuador  is  the  first  country  in  the  world  to  have 
recognized  the  rights  of  nature  in  its  Constitution. 
Nature  stops  being  a  passive  object  and  becomes  an 
active  subject.  In  that  connection,  the  Constitution 
of  Ecuador  states  that  Mother  Earth,  or  Pachamama, 
where  life  reproduces  and  f lourishes,  has  a  right  to 
full  respect  for  its  existence  and  the  maintenance  and 
regeneration of its vital cycles, structure, functions and 
developmental processes. By recognizing those rights, 
we  close  the  circle  of  the  complementary  relationship 
with  the  rights  of  human  beings.  The  Constitution 
of  Ecuador  has  led  to  major  progress  in  legal  and 
environmental  areas.  It  overcomes  the  human-centred 
vision  of  law  prevailing  in  the  world.  We  aspire  to 
open  a  discussion  in  this  forum  aimed  at  preparing  a 
universal declaration on the rights of nature.
In the environment, Ecuador is one of the leading 
promoters  at  the  international  level  of  environmental 
sustainability  policies.  We  have  developed  new 
initiatives  in  the  fight  against  climate  change,  such 
as  the  “net  avoided  emissions”  mechanism.  That  has 
made the Yasuní-ITT initiative an innovative sovereign 
decision.  We  have  also  planned  to  protect  natural 
resources  and  the  cultures  of  several  ethnic  groups  in 
the Amazon region and have accepted the responsibility 
to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.
In  that  context,  Ecuador  has  been  a  leader  in  the 
regional  debate  on  a  model  for  domestic  sustainable 
development.  At  the  same  time,  together  with  the 
regional Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas bloc, we 
have  played  a  critical  role  within  the  United  Nations 
12-52563
27
A/67/PV.20
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  and  we 
have  noted  the  scant  political  will,  especially  in  the 
countries  in  the  North,  to  let  themselves  be  subject  to 
legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse-gas 
emissions. Ecuador has proposed, on the international 
level, 
participatory 
development model.
sustainable 
an 
alternative 
When it comes to promoting human rights and the 
freedom  of  expression,  the  Government  of  Ecuador 
has  been  faithful  to  its  tradition,  which  is  to  protect 
those who seek refuge in its territory or its diplomatic 
missions  because 
they  are  victims  of  political 
persecution,  and has granted diplomatic asylum to the 
Australian  citizen  Julian  Assange  in  response  to  his 
request to the President of the Republic of Ecuador and 
after an exhaustive judicial assessment. That has been a 
unique opportunity for the world community to debate 
the  process  of  asylum  in  that  context  and  to  observe 
the  political,  legal  and  human  repercussions  of  its 
application  within  the  framework  of  the  strict  respect 
for international law. Ecuador is proud of having taken 
a sovereign decision in a legal procedure that protects 
human beings anywhere in the world.
Our country promotes the reform of the multilateral 
United  Nations  system  through  example  and  not  just 
in  words.  We  have  also  undertaken  an  unprecedented 
institutional reform of our own. The results have been 
highly  satisfactory,  with  outstanding  levels  of  growth 
and  poverty  reduction.  I  want  to  mention  just  a  few 
figures,  so  that  members  can  have  a  clear  idea  of  our 
achievements.  Under  the  Government  of  the  Citizens’ 
Revolution,  the  poverty  rate  has  been  reduced  from 
36.7 per cent to 25.3 per cent, a reduction of more than 
11  per  cent.  Extreme  poverty,  that  is,  abject  poverty, 
has come down from 16.5 per cent to 9.4 per cent. We 
have  reduced  the  Gini  coefficient  from  0.55  per  cent 
to 0.47 per cent. For the first time in our two centuries 
as  a  republic,  the  extreme  poverty  rate  for  Ecuador’s 
population  is  below  10  per  cent.  An  annual  education 
budget  of  $858  million  has  now  grown  by  a  factor  of 
5.1,  to  $4.366  billion.  Payment  of  external  debt  is  not 
more than 4.2 per cent of gross domestic product, while 
our spending on public social services stands at 11 per 
cent of gross domestic product.
Every  international  agency  that  has  reviewed 
our  macroeconomic  numbers  and  social  spending 
agree  that  the  changes  in  our  country  are  drastically 
improving the lives of our citizens. We have not settled 
for mere words, but, rather, our country’s success story 
is  written  in  concrete,  practical  actions  as  part  of  a 
national  development  plan,  overseen  and  managed  by 
the  President  of  the  Republic  himself,  that  is  bringing 
rapid  change  to  our  country  —  and  without  the  usual 
social  ills  that  result  from  the  prescriptions  of  the 
international  financial  institutions.  On  the  contrary, 
ours is a participatory model founded in solidarity. 
We  have  not  neglected  foreign  direct  investment, 
which we believe essential to our development strategy, 
so  long  as  it  complements  our  national  initiatives, 
including  our  national  development  plan.  I  state  with 
pride that the Constitution of the Republic of Ecuador 
is  the  first  in  the  world  to  define  legal  security  as  a 
human  right  in  itself,  respect  for  which  and  the  direct 
application  of  which  are  guaranteed  by  judicial, 
administrative and constitutional authorities.
Nevertheless, we believe that progress for Ecuador 
or  for  any  other  country  is  at  risk  if  the  international 
system,  either  because  of  general  indifference  or 
because  of  interests  that  run  contrary  to  global  well-
being,  feeds  a  new  era  of  anarchy  in  which  unilateral 
actions  or  geopolitical  conf licts  predominate.  For  that 
reason, we would like to take this opportunity to reiterate 
the  need  to  rehabilitate  and  revitalize  multilateralism, 
to  upgrade  international  mechanisms  and  strengthen 
international law, so as to safeguard international peace 
and security and a healthy environment, which are the 
necessary  ingredients  for  worldwide  development  and 
prosperity.  We  want  to  use  this  platform  to  urge  the 
international community and the representatives of all 
the countries of the world to join in demonstrating the 
resolve, bravery and political will to drive the creation 
of a new international order — new in being more just, 
more open, more participatory and more democratic.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Pham  Quang  Vinh,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
Mr.  Pham  Quang  Vinh  (Viet  Nam):  On  behalf 
of  the  delegation  of  Viet  Nam,  I  extend  my  warmest 
congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I 
am  confident  that  under  your  stewardship  this  session 
will be crowned with success. I appreciate the excellent 
work  done  by  the  Secretary-General  and  welcome  the 
outcomes  of  the  sixty-sixth  session,  presided  over  by 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser.
To start with, we would like to welcome the theme 
proposed  for  this  year’s  general  debate,  “Bringing 
28 
12-52563
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or  situations  by  peaceful  means”.  This  theme  is  of 
particular relevance in today’s world, when instability 
and conf licts continue in various regions, especially in 
North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  The  decades-long 
Palestinian-Israeli  conf lict  lingers  on  and  requires  a 
satisfactory  solution,  including  the  establishment  of 
an  independent  sovereign  Palestinian  State  coexisting 
peacefully  with  the  State  of  Israel.  Progress  has  yet 
to  be  made  in  disarmament,  particularly  nuclear 
disarmament,  while  the  risk  of  the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  continues  to  grow.  New, 
complicated  developments  are  emerging  in  the  Asia-
Pacific  region,  a  dynamically  growing  and  important 
region of the world.
We  believe  that  the  success  of  this  General 
Assembly  session  will  significantly  contribute  to  the 
primary goal of the United Nations, maintaining world 
peace and security. Accordingly, we must further uphold 
international  law  and  strengthen  compliance  with 
it.  Nations  must  strongly  commit  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  international  law  and  the  United  Nations 
Charter, particularly the peaceful settlement of disputes 
and non-use of force, as well as respect for the national 
independence,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
of  States.  We  must  promote  dialogue  and  the  use  of 
peaceful means in the settlement of disputes, especially 
recourse  to  international  and  regional  organizations 
and  international  legal  mechanisms.  And  we  must 
not  accept  the  imposition  of  sanctions  like  those 
against  Cuba,  the  removal  of  which  the  Assembly  has 
repeatedly called for.
International  law  is  an  intellectual  creation  of  the 
civilized world, which all States must respect and abide 
by  in  good  faith.  If  international  law  is  enforced,  the 
risk of conf lict will be minimized and sustained peace 
will be better secured.
Viet  Nam 
the 
therefore  welcomes 
important 
outcome  of  the  recent  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(resolution 67/1), which reaffirmed that the rule of law 
is  fundamental  to  political  dialogue  and  cooperation 
among  States  and  is  the  indispensable  bedrock  for  a 
more peaceful, prosperous and just world. Compliance 
with  international  law  is  an  essential  principle  that 
guides the policies and actions of each nation, as well 
as the joint endeavours of the international community.
When  we  commemorate  the  thirtieth  anniversary 
of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
A/67/PV.20
the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  later  this  year,  we  should  further 
reaffirm  our  strong  commitment  to  and  compliance 
with  that  constitution  of  the  seas,  which  contributes 
to  the  maintenance  of  peace,  stability  and  maritime 
security, safety and cooperation.
The  United  Nations  continues 
to  play  an 
indispensable  role,  entrusted  to  it  by  the  international 
community,  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Viet  Nam  commends  the  work  done  by 
the United Nations, especially in helping settle regional 
disputes  and  conf licts  by  peaceful  means,  including 
through 
strengthened  use  of  peacekeeping 
operations.  We  expect  the  Organization  will  continue 
to  build  further  upon  its  experience  in  that  area  and 
promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue,  to  better 
resolve  ongoing  conf licts  and  prevent  the  eruption  of 
new ones.
the 
The  United  Nations  must  step  up  efforts  in 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, while 
strengthening  international  cooperation  and  ensuring 
the  right  of  States  to  use  related  technologies  for 
peaceful  purposes.  Multilateral  negotiating  forums  in 
this area, particularly the Conference on Disarmament, 
must be revitalized and intensified.
Furthermore, we should recognize the increasingly 
important role of regional organizations. In East Asia, 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
continues  to  play  a  central  role  in  the  regional 
architecture  and  helps  promote  peace,  stability  and 
security  in  the  region,  including  maritime  security 
in  the  South  China  Sea.  Viet  Nam  fully  supports 
ASEAN’s  six-point  principles  statement  on  the  South 
China  Sea,  which  further  reaffirms  the  settlement  of 
disputes  by  peaceful  means,  respect  for  international 
law,  particularly  UNCLOS,  the  full  implementation 
of  the  Declaration  of  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  South 
China Sea and a timely agreement on a code of conduct.
Peace is the prerequisite for development. Yet it is 
sustainable development, including the end of poverty, 
the  promotion  of  social  justice  and  the  elimination  of 
inequality in international relations, which helps resolve 
the root causes of conf licts and lays the foundation for 
a sustained peace.
Today,  the  global  economy  continues  to  be  in 
difficulty.  The  Doha  Development  Round  has  yet  to 
make  progress,  while  protectionism  persists  and  the 
shortcomings of the international economic and financial 
12-52563
29
A/67/PV.20
systems  have  yet  to  be  overcome.  As  a  result,  many 
countries, especially developing countries, continue to 
face  great  difficulties  in  their  development,  including 
in their efforts to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  In  that  context,  it  is  essential  that  we 
reaffirm  our  strong  political  commitment  to  ensuring 
the realization of the MDGs, the promotion of inclusive 
sustainable  and  green  development,  and  the  effective 
response to natural disasters, climate change and other 
global challenges. 
inclusive  process 
The  United  Nations  needs  to  strengthen  global 
partnerships  for  development  and  take  the  lead  in 
an 
the  post-2015 
global  development  agenda,  including  the  proposed 
sustainable development goals. In that regard, we urge 
developed countries to fulfil their pledges for increased 
development  assistance  and 
support  developing 
countries in capacity-building.
to  formulate 
This year, Viet Nam commemorates the thirty-fifth 
anniversary  of  its  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
Throughout that time, Viet Nam has consistently been 
an active and responsible member of the Organization, 
striving  for  peace,  national  independence,  democracy, 
social progress and prosperity for all nations. Building on 
its 25 years of reform and important accomplishments, 
Viet  Nam  has  been  working  towards  a  growth  model 
that  links  economic  development  with  social  progress 
and environmental protection. 
In  the  face  of  recent  global  economic  difficulties, 
Viet  Nam  has  taken  steps  to  effectively  maintain 
macroeconomic  stability  and  ensure  social  security. 
Viet  Nam  continues  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and 
build  a  State  of  the  people,  by  the  people  and  for  the 
people,  which  places  the  people  at  the  centre  and 
promotes their ownership and rights in all spheres.
Pursuing  the  policy  of  proactive  international 
integration,  Viet  Nam  continues 
to  contribute 
actively  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  ASEAN, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
International 
Organization  of  la  Francophonie  and  others.  We  also 
contribute  constructively  in  multilateral  forums  in 
endeavours  designed  to  respond  to  global  challenges 
including  nuclear  security;  disarmament  and 
the 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction; 
sustainable  development;  climate  change;  water,  food 
and energy security; and the achievement of the MDGs. 
the 
Viet Nam has been implementing with good results 
the  United  Nations  initiative  of  Delivering  as  One.  To 
further  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations, 
Viet Nam has put forth its candidature for membership 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  term  2014-2016, 
and we look forward to the Assembly’s support.
Viet  Nam  always  endorses  efforts  to  enhance 
the  role  and  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  to 
enable  the  Organization  to  become  the  true  centre  for 
harmonizing  the  actions  of  nations  in  the  attainment 
of  the  common  goals  enshrined  in  its  Charter.  We 
therefore  support  the  continued  reform  of  the  United 
Nations,  including  the  strengthening  of  the  General 
Assembly as the most representative deliberative body, 
and of the Economic and Social Council in the field of 
socioeconomic  development,  as  well  as  the  expansion 
of  Security  Council  membership  and  reform  of  its 
working methods.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
30 
12-52563
