United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
10th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 September 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.10
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Román-Morey 
(Peru), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 4 p.m.
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Juan 
Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Two  years  ago,  during  my  first  address  before  the 
Assembly as President of Colombia (see A/65/PV.15), I 
expressed my country’s aspiration to become a member 
of the Security Council for the period 2011-2012.
We  assumed  the  responsibility  of  participating  in 
making decisions about critical situations that threaten 
world  peace  in  a  spirit  of  absolute  independence  and 
well  aware  of  the  enormous  commitment  required  to 
work  for  international  peace  and  security.  It  has  been 
a particularly turbulent time, but one during which the 
aspirations  of  many  peoples  who  had  suffered  long 
conf licts and armed confrontation have been furthered. 
Countries like Liberia, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire 
are now making strides towards peacebuilding and the 
rule of law. 
In Libya, a ruthless tyranny in place for more than 40 
years was dismantled in a process in which the Security 
Council  played  a  decisive  role.  My  Government  did 
not  hesitate  to  condemn  the  violent  repression  of  the 
civilian  population  justly  clamouring  for  the  exercise 
of their fundamental rights. That is why we joined the 
Council’s  decisions  furthering  a  transition  towards 
a  democracy  that,  although  still  fragile,  enjoys  the 
support  of  the  international  community  as  it  seeks  to 
entrench itself. There are still violent groups that want 
to  sabotage  that  process  by  terrorist  methods.  I  take 
this opportunity to condemn in the strongest terms the 
despicable attack perpetrated against the United States 
consulate  in  Benghazi.  Extremism,  terrorism  and 
disregard for human life cannot be allowed to persist.
Today, 
the  Arab  world 
is  experiencing  a 
fundamental  political  transformation,  opening  the 
way  towards  democracy.  If  the  process  is  to  last,  it 
will require respect for people’s rights and the creation 
of  conditions  conducive  to  sustainable  economic 
development.  We  hope  that  participation  by  citizens, 
especially women, will continue to increase and foster 
democratic systems and opportunities for development 
and welfare.
With regard to the dire situation in Syria for more 
than a year and half, I must express our deep frustration 
with the inability of the international community to put 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52207 (E)
*1252207*
A/67/PV.10
an end to the tragedy that every day takes more and more 
Syrian  lives.  From  this  rostrum,  we  reiterate  our  call 
for an end to the attacks and for a political negotiation 
that  will  meet  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  all  sectors 
of Syrian society. Implementing Kofi Annan’s six-point 
plan  would  greatly  contribute  to  facilitating  a  Syrian-
led  political  transition.  We  strongly  support  the  new 
Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United  Nations 
and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, 
and  wish  him  much  success  in  his  very  complex  and 
difficult task.
As  a  representative  of  a  country  that  is  currently 
a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  I  would  like  to 
brief ly  turn  to  the  matter  of  its  reform,  which  has 
been under discussion for 20 years. Colombia believes 
that  consensus  should  be  our  guide  in  developing  a 
comprehensive  approach  that  includes  change  in  both 
the Council’s composition and its working methods so 
as to promote more effectively the United Nations goals 
of peace, well-being and humanity. 
In  our  hemisphere,  one  country  that  requires 
comprehensive  peacebuilding  is  Haiti.  We  continue  to 
work for Haiti. Its recovery will require our continuous 
support  in  strengthening  its  capacities,  institutions 
and productivity so as to generate employment, reduce 
extreme poverty and promote the United Nations work 
for  development  in  the  country.  I  urge  everyone  to 
persevere in that cause.
A key event for the world this year was the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20).  Inspired  by  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  model,  Colombia  led  the  proposal  to  establish 
the  sustainable  development  goals,  which  was  the 
most important outcome of the Rio+20 process. Today, 
the  sustainable  development  goals  promise  to  be  a 
fundamental  component  of  the  planet’s  development 
agenda,  and 
the  Secretary-General  himself  has 
identified  them  as  one  of  the  five  priorities  of  his 
legacy.  We  are  therefore  especially  pleased  that  our 
Foreign Minister has been invited to be a member of the 
high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda, 
which held its first meeting yesterday.
This year, the sixth Summit of the Americas gathered 
in  Colombia,  with  30  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
from  the  western  hemisphere  in  attendance.  It  was  a 
fruitful gathering, which for the first time we organized 
simultaneously with a business summit attended by the 
leaders of the premier companies of the Americas. We 
also  held  a  social  forum  that  brought  together  people 
from diverse social organizations on the continents. 
the 
The  Summit  of  the  Americas  in  Cartagena  was 
characterized  by  frank  and  open  dialogue  about  the 
most  crucial  issues  for  the  region  and  the  world.  The 
Governments  of  the  Americas  agreed  to  undertake 
an  analysis  and  discussion  of 
track  record, 
effectiveness and future prospects of the so-called war 
on drugs, as well as possible alternatives to it. It is our 
duty to question with scientific objectivity whether we 
are doing the best we can or if there are better options 
to more effectively combating the scourge. To that end, 
we  mandated  the  Organization  of  American  States 
to  begin  an  analysis  and  discussion,  inviting  other 
entities  —  the  first  of  which  would  be,  of  course,  the 
United Nations — to participate.
That is only a first step, but it is of great importance 
because  it  is  the  beginning  of  a  discussion  that  the 
world has avoided for many years. We hope that it will 
ultimately  yield  concrete  results.  The  debate  about 
drugs  that  have  caused  so  much  harm  throughout  the 
world  and  to  my  country  must  be  frank  and,  most 
certainly, global. 
Similarly,  in  my  statement  before  the  General 
Assembly  two  years  ago,  I  expressed  my  conviction 
that  the  dawning  decade  should  be  the  decade  of 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  —  a  decade  that 
would consolidate that region of the world as a region 
of  peace,  progress  and  solutions  for  the  rest  of  the 
planet.  Today,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  our  region 
is indeed experiencing a favourable moment with solid 
economies,  functional  democracies  and  no  current 
conf lict among the nations of which it is formed. 
Regional  coordination  mechanisms  of  relatively 
recent  establishment,  such  as  the  Union  of  South 
American  Nations  and 
the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  are  evidence  of  the 
resolve  of  our  countries  and  peoples  to  cooperate.  I 
would  like  to  highlight  the  enormous  potential  of  the 
Pacific  Alliance  that  was  formalized  this  year  among 
Mexico,  Peru,  Colombia  and  Chile.  The  Alliance  is 
open to the participation of other States with which we 
seek to strengthen not only trade but also political and 
human  ties,  as  well  as  to  the  nations  of  the  immense 
Pacific basin.
I  cannot  conclude  without  referring  to  the  special 
moment  that  our  country  is  currently  experiencing. 
Against  the  backdrop  of  international  turbulence,  we 
2 
12-52207
have been successful in maintaining a healthy economy 
that  has  generated  over  2  million  new  jobs  over  the 
course  of  two  years,  attesting  to  the  major  progress 
we  have  made  in  reducing  poverty.  We  have  put  in 
place  initiatives  of  great  social  impact,  such  as  a  law 
for  victims,  which  is  the  only  legislation  in  the  world 
that  seeks  to  return  lands  to  displaced  peasants  and 
to  compensate  the  victims  of  a  conf lict  that  remains 
ongoing;  or  major  hydrocarbon  and  mining  royalties 
reform to more fairly distribute the revenues generated 
by such activities, and thereby promote more effective 
social development. 
Nevertheless,  our  progress,  which  has  been 
remarkable,  has  been  curtailed  by  an  absurd  conf lict 
that  has  now  lasted  half  a  century.  Today,  Colombia 
is  suffering  through  the  most  prolonged  internal 
armed  conf lict  in  its  hemisphere,  indeed  perhaps  one 
of  the  longest-lasting  in  the  world  —  an  ever-more 
anachronistic  and  inexplicable  conf lict.  Above  all,  it 
is  inexplicable  in  the  light  of  the  development  of  our 
democracy and of our social progress. 
Aware  of 
that,  and  without  neglecting 
the 
protection  and  security  of  the  Colombian  people  and 
without  ceding  an  inch  in  the  fight  against  terrorism 
and crime, my Government is resolved to move forward 
prudently, seriously and firmly, and without repeating 
the mistakes of the past, by entering into conversations 
with  the  guerrilla  forces  in  order  to  achieve  an  end  to 
the armed conf lict. 
After  two  years  of  exploratory  contacts,  we  have 
announced  to  the  country  and  to  the  world  that  a 
phase of talks will be initiated on a short and concrete 
agenda,  which  we  hope  will  allow  us  to  achieve  the 
desired  outcome.  The  talks  will  begin  in  Oslo  during 
the  first  half  of  October  and  will  continue  in  Havana, 
thanks to the goodwill of the Governments of Norway 
and Cuba, which will serve as guarantors. We will also 
have  the  backing  of  the  Government  of  Venezuela,  to 
which  we  are  grateful  for  its  valuable  support,  and  of 
the  Government  of  Chile,  which  will  be  working  with 
us during the second phase.
Today,  before  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to 
thank the international community for the support it has 
expressed at outset of the talks and for its willingness 
to cooperate and help in any way that is necessary. We 
embark upon the talks with moderate optimism and in 
the  absolute  conviction  that  it  is  an  opportunity  that 
we cannot squander to achieve a peace that is good not 
only for Colombia but for the entire region.
A/67/PV.10
With regard to my statement today, a few days ago I 
asked the Colombian people through social media what 
message  they  wanted  me  to  bring  here  to  the  General 
Assembly.  Among  the  many  messages  I  received,  I 
want to share one from my compatriot Henry Rodríguez 
Chacón:  “An  entire  generation  wants  to  wake  up  one 
day to the news of a peace agreement.” That is the most 
heartfelt wish of the Colombian people. 
Aware  that  the  process  must  have  brief  deadlines 
and  precise  terms  if  it  is  to  be  successful,  I  trust  that 
I  will  be  able  to  deliver  to  the  Assembly  next  year  a 
positive  outcome  of  the  effort,  which  we  undertake 
enthusiastically  with  a  view  to  ending  our  50-year 
conf lict.
We  do  not  want  to  talk  just  about  peace;  we  want 
to build conditions for peace. That is what we are doing 
on a daily basis with the actions of our Government and 
now  with  the  talks  that  we  are  initiating.  Today,  with 
great hope, we present the world with this new special 
moment for my country, Colombia. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Colombia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the 
United Nations His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
King  Mswati:  It  is  an  immense  pleasure  for  me 
to  join  other  Heads  of  State  and  Government  at  this 
sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I should 
like  to  begin  by  congratulating  the  President  upon 
his  election  to  steer  the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  this 
12-52207
3
A/67/PV.10
session.  His  experience  and  abilities  are  well  known 
and  respected.  We  have  full  confidence  that  he  will 
take the Organization to greater heights. The Kingdom 
of eSwatini is ready to give him all the support that he 
deserves in carrying out this mammoth task.
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
detailed report on the work of the Organization (A/67/1). 
We  have  seen  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations  working 
very  hard,  sometimes  in  very  difficult  and  hostile 
environments, dedicating their service to helping those 
who require our assistance and support. The Kingdom 
of  eSwatini  commends  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
dedicated  team  for  working  tirelessly  to  ensure  the 
realization of all aspirations of the Organization.
As  we  gather  here,  we  must  always  remember 
that  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  keep  peace 
throughout the world, to develop and to help nations to 
work  together  in  resolving  challenges  such  as  hunger, 
unemployment, conf licts, disease and illiteracy, among 
others.  The  United  Nations  also  aims  to  be  the  centre 
for  harmonizing  the  actions  of  nations  to  achieve  our 
aspirations.
We  are  meeting  here  at  a  time  when  the  whole 
world  is  facing  numerous  challenges,  such  as  the 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  The  Kingdom  of 
eSwatini  believes  that  the  United  Nations  is  the 
appropriate  forum  to  deliberate  on  these  challenges 
in  order  to  come  up  with  united  global  solutions.  As 
part of the global community, the Kingdom of eSwatini 
has  not  been  spared  from  this  economic  predicament. 
Our  social  development  programmes  that  enhance  the 
delivery  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
national  projects,  such  as  job  creation  and  poverty 
alleviation  strategies,  have  been  adversely  affected 
by  the  prevailing  situation.  The  gains  we  have  made 
in the fight against HIV and AIDS through the rollout 
of  antiretroviral  treatments  remain  threatened  by  the 
uncertainty  around  the  financial  sustainability  of  the 
programme.
We  wish  to  acknowledge  the  support  we  continue 
to  receive  from  the  Global  Fund  to  fight  HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  in  mitigating  all  diseases. 
The  Fund  has  gone  a  long  way  in  injecting  resources 
into  our  national  programme  of  promoting  health  as 
a  key  national  priority.  The  need  to  work  together  to 
overcome  these  challenges  could  not  have  been  more 
essential.
In our efforts to address global economic challenges, 
we  should  be  conscious  of  the  social  implications  of 
some  of  the  proposed  solutions.  Our  strategies  should 
not  create  more  hardship,  but  rather  find  answers  that 
mitigate  the  difficulties  we  face.  I  am  confident  that, 
with  our  wealth  of  different  experiences,  we  stand 
to  benefit  from  valuable  strategies,  especially  from 
those  States  that  have  not  been  seriously  affected  by 
the  financial  crisis.  We  urge  those  countries  to  share 
their experiences for the benefit of all Member States. 
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  calls  on  the  United  Nations 
to  consider  making  these  challenges  among  its  top 
priorities during this session.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  last  month  converged 
on  Sibaya  for  dialogue  on  social,  economic  and 
political  issues  with  a  view  to  crafting  solutions  and 
agreeing on a way forward that would best improve our 
livelihoods. Sibaya is a place where every citizen is free 
to participate irrespective of gender, creed, religion or 
affiliation,  among  other  things.  We  believe  in  the  full 
participation of all citizens at the grass-roots level in the 
decision-making  process.  This  forum  is  an  institution 
where  key  national  pronouncements  are  made  and 
national sustainable development strategies conceived. 
Our  national  Constitution  and  National  Development 
Strategy are outputs of this structure. This practice has 
been passed on from generation to generation, and has 
continued to serve us well, since it allows the people to 
contribute to their own welfare.
Like many other States Member of the Organization, 
the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  has  been  working  hard 
towards the ratification of United Nations conventions, 
as  well  as  of  continental  and  regional  protocols.  I  am 
pleased to inform the Assembly that the Sibaya forum 
provided  the  whole  nation  with  an  opportunity  to 
discuss  those  conventions  and  protocols,  which  have 
since  been  ratified  by  Parliament  and  deposited  with 
the Secretary-General. We are pleased that we can now 
be counted among the countries that have successfully 
ratified United Nations conventions and protocols.
The  world  we  live  in  has  become  a  complicated 
place with the advent of modern technology. We remain 
faced with the challenge of how best to take advantage 
of  this  technology,  such  as  social  media,  to  promote 
peace and stability. If there is anything we need to do, it 
is to promote peace in the world. It is true, and we fully 
agree with the assertion that there is no need to promote 
violence of any kind, be it the killing of diplomats, the 
forced removal of Governments, or any other form. In 
4 
12-52207
this world, we must all live together in peace, whether as 
Muslims, Christians or any other traditional believers. 
We  must  learn  to  respect  each  other  irrespective  of 
race, creed or religious affiliation. If we practiced those 
principles,  the  world  would  be  altogether  a  different 
and  better  place.  As  human  beings,  we  must  turn  the 
page, forget the past and live together for the benefit of 
generations to come.
On  the  African  continent,  we  are  encouraged  by 
the concerted efforts of our fellow brothers and sisters 
who  are  committed  to  resolving  their  differences  in 
a  peaceful  manner.  We  encourage  speedy  resolutions 
in areas where pockets of conf lict remain, such as the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan and some 
North African countries, to mention but a few. 
The  Assembly  knows  that  Somalia  has  also  been 
without  a  stable  Government  for  a  long  time,  and  we 
hope  that  new  developments  will  bring  about  lasting 
peace. In that vein, the Kingdom of eSwatini welcomes 
the recent development that has taken place in Somalia. 
We hope that the election of the President will bring the 
desired stability.
We extend the call for peace beyond Africa, to the 
Middle East, where we continue to witness conf lict. The 
war in Syria has claimed the lives of too many citizens 
and  must  come  to  an  end.  We  appeal  to  the  people  of 
Syria  to  discourage  the  use  of  force  in  resolving  their 
differences. We encourage the use of dialogue in cases 
where they do not see eye to eye. We implore the Syrian 
Government  and  the  other  stakeholders  to  sit  down  in 
dialogue in order to find a lasting solution to the current 
impasse.  The  barrel  of  the  gun  will  bring  nothing  but 
misery. 
The United Nations and the League of Arab States 
have  sent  a  Joint  Special  Representative  to  work  with 
the people of Syria. We hope that all stakeholders will 
make  good  use  of  the  Joint  Special  Representative 
towards finding a peaceful and lasting solution to their 
differences.  The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  urges  States  
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  work  together  in 
supporting  all  efforts  aimed  at  helping  the  people  of 
Syria to resolve the conf lict.
We  also  note  that  the  Israel-Palestine  conf lict 
remains unresolved. A peaceful settlement of the issue 
is deeply desired and urgently necessary. Our position 
is unambiguous. The most viable solution is to have the 
two  States  of  Israel  and  Palestine  coexisting  side  by 
side in peace and harmony.
A/67/PV.10
We must commend the recent positive developments 
with  regard  to  relations  between  the  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan  and  mainland  China,  which  are 
steadily  improving.  Indeed,  it  is  very  encouraging 
as  it  demonstrates  that  the  tensions  between  the  two 
countries  have  subsided.  We  hope  that  one  day  they 
will be able to resolve all of their differences and live 
happily with each other. We are witnessing increasing 
trade,  as  well  as  f lights,  between  the  two  countries. 
Recently, it was also interesting to see mainland China 
host an African summit, to which the countries that are 
friends of Taiwan were also invited.
As  an  African  country,  we  would  like  to  thank 
mainland  China  for  its  continued  support  to  African 
countries.  We  have  no  doubt  that  the  potential  of  the 
two  peoples  working  together  side  by  side  will  make 
a significant difference in the world. We hope that the 
new  developments  will  pave  the  way  for  Taiwan  to 
participate fully in all United Nations entities, because 
the people of Taiwan desire to become part of the global 
community.
Peace  will  continue  to  elude  us  until  we  properly 
address  the  issue  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
It  is  clear  that  those  weapons  are  not  necessary  to 
humankind. Their mere presence is a recipe for conf lict 
as  each  country  seeks  to  gain  power  over  others.  The 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
adopted  by  many  Member  States,  must  be  enforced  to 
ensure the complete elimination of these weapons. 
We have not seen any tangible proof of compliance 
with  the  internationally  agreed  time  frames,  which 
is  a  cause  for  serious  concern  requiring  urgent 
attention. The mere existence of those weapons creates 
unnecessary tension that could result in a very hostile 
world  environment.  We 
those  countries 
endowed with uranium resources to use them for other 
essential  economic  development  needs,  such  as  power 
generation.
implore 
The Kingdom of eSwatini recognizes the important 
role  that  the  Security  Council  plays  in  the  pursuit  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Charter  of  the 
United Nations clearly stipulates an international order 
that ensures the rule of law. We call upon the General 
Assembly  at  this  session  to  deliberate  on  Security 
Council reform, as not all regions are well represented. 
We wish to reiterate the African position on the Security 
Council, claiming two seats in the permanent category 
and  five  seats  in  the  non-permanent  category.  The 
full  representation  of  all  regions  in  the  Council  will 
12-52207
5
A/67/PV.10
ensure that we all own the decisions of that important 
security organ. We should all be given equal treatment. 
No region or country should impose its inf luence over 
others.  We  wish  to  see  finality  in  that  urgent  matter, 
since it has dragged on for a very long time now.
The  high-level  meeting  on  sustainable  energy  for 
all, which was held alongside this session, gave Heads 
of State and Government a forum to deliberate on issues 
that  promote  the  protection  of  our  environment.  That 
meeting provided us with an opportunity to revisit the 
commitments made towards sustainable energy for all. 
The  destruction  of  the  environment  has  had 
devastating  effects  on  many  of  our  countries.  The 
United  Nations  must  expedite  the  processes  towards 
protecting  the  environment  by  enforcing  the  use  of 
environmentally friendly technologies and practices by 
Member  States.  We  call  upon  the  developed  countries 
to honour their commitments made prior to the United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio 
de Janeiro.
Finally,  allow  me  to  say  that  as  we  meet  during 
this  session,  let  us  adopt  resolutions  that  will  provide 
lasting solutions to the challenges faced by humankind 
the  world  over.  We  wish  the  United  Nations  every 
success as it pursues its objective of creating a peaceful 
environment and coexistence among all the nations of 
the  world.  Let  honesty,  peace,  stability  and  tolerance 
prevail across the globe.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland for the statement he 
has just made.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Otto Fernando Pérez Molina, 
President of the Republic of Guatemala
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guatemala.
Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez  Molina,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Otto 
Fernando  Pérez  Molina,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
President Pérez Molina (spoke in Spanish):  At the 
outset, allow me to greet Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  At 
the same time, I would like to express my appreciation 
to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his stewardship 
during the previous session.
I  have  the  honour  to  represent  Guatemala  for 
the  first  time  before  this  highest  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. Guatemala, and my Government in particular, 
will  always  support  any  initiative  that  furthers  the 
noble  objectives  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations, 
summarized in the words “peace”, “development” and 
“human rights”.
My country is committed to the peaceful settlement 
of  conf licts,  which  is  the  central  theme  of  our  debate. 
In  that  spirit,  in  late  2008  we  agreed  to  sign  a  special 
agreement  with  our  neighbour,  Belize,  seeking  a 
resolution of a long-standing territorial dispute through 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Our  Congress 
unanimously approved the agreement, and on October 
6,  2013,  simultaneous  plebiscites  will  be  held  in  both 
countries  to  democratically  ratify  our  commitment  to 
resorting to the International Court of Justice.
Furthermore,  we  Guatemalans  lived  through  an 
armed conf lict that lasted 36 years. I was a soldier who 
participated in that conf lict. And because I know war, I 
highly value dialogue. That is why in 1996 I was one of 
the signatories of the peace accords in my country. That 
motivates me to reaffirm my support for the President’s 
wise  decision  to  convene  this  session  to  discuss  the 
peaceful settlement of conf licts.
My Government has set three overarching objectives 
in  order  to  advance  firmly  and  sustainably  towards  a 
Guatemala that fully enjoys the benefits of peace. First, 
we  have  proposed  the  Hambre  Zero  initiative,  which 
seeks  to  reduce  the  chronic  malnutrition  that  affects 
over 40 per cent of our children below five years of age. 
That reduction will be sustainable only if we are able to 
better develop our rural areas in order to permanently 
reduce  the  poverty  of  families  living  off  the  land, 
particularly indigenous families.
Secondly,  my  Government  is  promoting  a  pact 
for  security,  justice  and  peace,  which  seeks  to  reduce 
the  social  violence  that  aff licts  our  country.  In  taking 
office,  I  found  a  country  with  high  levels  of  violence; 
as a result, reducing those levels has become a priority 
6 
12-52207
of  my  Government.  We  are  certain  that  we  can  attain 
progress in that area, since the indicators over the past 
nine  months  alone  already  show  a  notable  decrease  of 
13 per cent in the number of homicides compared to the 
same period last year. I can therefore state that, without 
being  satisfied  with  those  indices,  we  are  nonetheless 
moving in the right direction in fulfilling our promise 
of  reducing  the  levels  of  violence  and  increasing 
security in Guatemala in an environment of full respect 
for  human  rights.  In  this  endeavour,  we  work  closely 
with  neighbouring  countries,  and  especially  with  our 
Central American brothers.
Thirdly,  we  are  campaigning  on  the  economic 
front  through  the  Fiscal  and  Competitiveness  Pact. 
Fiscal  affairs  have  been  one  of  the  weaknesses  of  our 
institutional  arrangement,  and  for  this  reason,  during 
the very first days of my Government we successfully 
promoted  a  fiscal  reform,  approved  by  Congress,  that 
increased  our  fiscal  receipts  by  15  per  cent,  allowing 
us  to  maintain  a  stable  macroeconomic  environment 
by reducing the fiscal deficit without having to reduce 
public  expenditures.  At  the  same  time,  fiscal  stability 
is  allowing  us  to  stimulate  private  investments  that 
generate employment opportunities; that is, dependable 
jobs, as demanded by our citizens.
Unfortunately,  our  efforts  in  relation  to  the  three 
challenges  previously  mentioned  —  lowering  chronic 
malnutrition  among  children,  reducing  violence,  and 
promoting  employment  —  are  nullified  in  part  by  the 
scourge of drug trafficking. At least 40 per cent of the 
homicides  in  our  country  are  linked  to  the  illicit drug 
traffic,  and  my  Government  is  obligated  to  allocate 
scarce  fiscal  resources  to  combat  transnational  gangs 
that  operate  between  the  producing  countries  in  the 
South  and  the  consuming  countries  in  the  North. 
Moreover, my country has gradually been transformed 
into  a  producer  and  a  consumer  of  drugs,  thereby 
compounding an already difficult situation.
The  existing 
framework,  born  out  of 
the 
international  conventions  adopted  during  the  past 
five  decades  and  currently  in  force,  has  not  achieved 
the  desired  results.  The  consumption  markets  expand 
instead of decreasing; the number of producer countries 
and the type of drugs available tend to multiply; and the 
routes chosen for marketing and trafficking are trending 
towards diversification. The drug problem is growing in 
size  and  complexity.  It  involves  an  increasing  number 
of  countries  and  persons.  Clearly,  it  is  a  transnational 
A/67/PV.10
phenomenon,  and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  I  raise  it  in 
this universal forum.
It  seems  that  the  basic  premise  of  our  war  against 
drugs has serious shortcomings since, unfortunately, it 
has not been possible to eradicate drug consumption. I 
believe that the time has come to accept this fact and to 
adapt our fight against the scourge in such a way as to 
take into account the new realities.
Our  youth,  the  group  most  affected  by  drug 
consumption,  demands  more  effective  responses  from 
us.  Let  us  realize  that  the  problem  is  more  a  public 
health  issue  than  a  matter  for  criminal  justice  and 
deal  with  it  accordingly.  We  must  offer  treatment, 
prevention,  social  protection,  economic  opportunities 
and  development  for  the  communities  involved  in  the 
drug market. Let us not fill our jails with thousands of 
young people, who would have a different kind of life 
if we were to approach the problem in a different way. I 
invite the Member States assembled here to jointly seek 
avenues that will enable us to offer our young people a 
more  promising  future,  improving  their  opportunities 
for a better life and at the same time reducing violence 
and poverty.
Fifty  years  provides  sufficient  time  for  us  to 
evaluate results, to gauge what we have achieved and to 
conclude why we do not have the results we had hoped 
for. In that regard, I also call on Member States to review 
the  international  regulations  that  currently  govern  our 
global policies regarding drugs. The Single Convention 
on  Narcotic  Drugs  of  1961,  as  amended  by  the  1972 
Protocol,  the  Convention  on  Psychotropic  Substances 
of  1971  and  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Illicit  Traffic  in  Narcotic  Drugs  and  Psychotropic 
Substances of 1988 must be evaluated on the basis of its 
results and brought up to date to allow us to achieve the 
desired outcomes. That is a serious challenge that must 
be  addressed  in  all  earnestness  so  that  we  can  have  a 
respectful and frank multilateral dialogue, informed by 
clear  scientific  evidence  regarding  the  best  strategies 
available to ensure that our young people are protected 
from the scourge of drugs.
In  that  regard,  last  April  the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Western  Hemisphere  met  for  the 
Summit  of  the  Americas  in  Cartagena  de  Indias.  Our 
host,  Mr.  Santos  Calderón,  President  of  Colombia, 
invited  us  to  discuss  new  avenues  to  combat  drug 
trafficking. The agreement reached was that we should 
undertake studies to assess new alternatives, which we 
12-52207
7
A/67/PV.10
would  discuss  next  year,  in  June,  at  a  meeting  of  the 
Organization  of  American  States  in  Guatemala.  That 
is a step in the right direction and one that we believe 
should be emulated at the global level.
In the same spirit, Guatemala would like to propose 
the establishment of a group of countries that are well 
disposed  to  reforming  global  policies  on  drugs.  The 
group  would  bring  together  Governments  that  are 
interested  in  promoting  in  appropriate  international 
forums  an  objective  and  rigorous  assessment  of 
prevailing  policies  and  inconsidering  new,  creative 
and  innovative  alternatives.  We  must  seek  such  new 
avenues responsibly and tenaciously, and I am sure that 
with  the  cooperation  of  all  producing,  consuming  and 
transit countries, we will succeed.
Allow  me  to  stress  that  it  is  not  a  matter  of 
abandoning  the  fight  against  the  scourge  of  drugs. 
Rather,  it  is  a  matter  of  arming  ourselves  better  and 
responding  with  greater  effectiveness  and  clarity, 
because our children and grandchildren deserve a more 
integrated and effective response from the international 
community.
I would like to conclude my thoughts by reaffirming 
that  Guatemala  will  not  renege  on  any  international 
commitments  to  which  it  is  party.  We  have  no  desire 
for unilateral action, which would only sow chaos and 
conf lict when the response should be a global one. We 
will wait patiently to change our policies in Guatemala 
until  the  international  community  moves  forward 
and  arrives  at  a  new  consensus.  At  the  same  time, 
however,  I  commit  my  leadership  to  moving  forward 
on evaluating the global policy on drugs, so as to make 
it  more  effective  and  based  on  current  international 
standards that ref lect the challenges and realities of the 
twenty-first century.
Before concluding, I would like to brief ly raise three 
points that I believe to be important to this meeting of 
the General Assembly. First, as a demonstration of our 
commitment to defending and promoting human rights 
on all fronts, on 14 January I said that Guatemala would 
seek  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court and thus become a party to the Statute. 
I am pleased to report that, on 2 April, we deposited our 
instrument of ratification.
Secondly,  in  that  same  speech,  I  indicated  that 
we  would  make  it  a  priority  of  our  foreign  policy  to 
contribute to the ideals of democracy, justice and peace, 
within a framework of absolute respect for international 
law.  In  that  regard,  I  indicated  that  Guatemala  would 
fulfil its duties on the Security Council responsibly and 
in  a  constructive  spirit.  I  believe  that  so  far  we  have 
kept  that  promise,  and  we  are  pleased  that  in  six  days 
Guatemala  will  assume  the  presidency  of  the  Council 
for  the  month  of  October,  and  we  will  continue  to  act 
responsibly.
Thirdly,  regarding  the  events  of  recent  weeks,  we 
reject all acts that defame religions. At the same time, 
we  condemn  violence  in  any  form,  including  assaults 
on diplomatic missions. Such expressions of intolerance 
offend us all.
Finally, I would like to recall that, on 21 December, 
Guatemala  will  celebrate  the  beginning  of  a  new  era 
according to the Mayan calendar. That era, 13 Baktun, 
marks  the  start  of  a  very  positive  new  age  that  will 
enable  and  invite  us  to  renew  physical  and  spiritual 
energies  in  an  atmosphere  of  peace,  cooperation  and 
dialogue. All heads of State and Government are invited 
to join us in Tikal National Park to share in the dawn of 
this new era. The Mayans of yesterday and today, and 
all Guatemalans, await them with open arms.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Guatemala for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez  Molina,  President  of 
the Republic of Guatemala, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President 
of the Transition of the Republic of Madagascar
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Transition of the Republic of Madagascar.
Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
Transition  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Andry Nirina 
Rajoelina, President of the Transition of the Republic of 
Madagascar, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Rajoelina 
in  French):  As 
President of the Transition of Madagascar, it is a great 
honour  for  me  to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of 
the  United  Nations  for  the  second  time.  The  theme  of 
(spoke 
8 
12-52207
the  sixty-seventh  session  is  akin  to  a  call  for  unity, 
for  shared  contemplation  and  for  generally  revisiting 
existential  questions  and  human  values  in  the  face  of 
situations  around  the  world  where  peace  is  extremely 
precarious.
The  last  few  years  have  indeed  been  marked  by 
differences of opinion, political disputes and conf licts 
of  interest.  The  world  today  faces  new  challenges  to 
stability and the maintenance of peace. Various efforts 
and  initiatives  have  been  undertaken  to  deal  with 
conf licts  that  are  not  homogeneous  and  disputes  that 
do  not  always  play  out  along  the  same  lines.  People’s 
interests differ and their approaches are not all equal.
Today  the  list  of  the  forms  that  global  conf licts 
take  leads  us  to  an  obvious  reality:  geostrategic 
variations  conform  to  no  one  rule,  and  they  are  in 
perpetual  f lux.  The  wise  words  of  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  in  his  statement  at  the  opening  of  the 
sixteenth Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement seem 
particularly revealing in that context. Did he not stress 
that  among  the  challenges  that  must  be  met,  there  are 
all too many political disputes between member States 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  itself?  Did  he  not  urge 
the  protagonists  in  the  Syrian  crisis  to  immediately 
institute a ceasefire and a halt to the violence? And yet 
we can only deplore the fact that his call produced no 
result.  Scores  of  innocent  people  are  still  dying  every 
day,  and  over  recent  months  they  now  number  in  the 
thousands. We firmly condemn this loss of human life. 
The Earth continues to run with the blood of innocents, 
spilled violently not only in Syria but in other parts of 
the world as well.
Given  this  state  of  affairs,  despite  the  complexity 
of the challenges those conf licts present, the Secretary-
General has not stood idle. We can only commend his 
determination  to  strive  tirelessly  to  seek  a  negotiated 
settlement.  States  and  other  bodies  must  join  forces 
to  maintain  peace,  stability  and  security  in  the  world. 
We  cannot  be  passive  witnesses  to  current  or  future 
disasters.  The  Republic  of  Madagascar  sets  particular 
store by the relevance and importance of the principles 
set  forth  in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  as  a  source 
of  inspiration  as  well  as  a  pillar  of  support  for  the 
interdependence of nations and peoples. That being the 
case,  human  rights,  the  law  of  States,  the  rule  of  law 
and the other international regulatory tools place before 
leaders their responsibilities.
The League of Nations defined the rule of law as a 
principle of governance based on the submission of all 
A/67/PV.10
individuals and institutions, including the State, to the 
adopted  and  published  laws,  without  distinction  as  to 
social or economic status; on the equality of everyone 
before an independent, impartial justice system; and on 
the  harmonization  of  national  laws  with  international 
human  rights  standards.  No  one  should  be  above  the 
law, and the culture of impunity must be banished.
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
National conf licts today transcend borders and are 
becoming  international  problems.  More  than  ever,  the 
role  of  diplomacy  and  international  negotiations  face 
difficulties. The consequences of disputes play out in a 
number of ways, including with problems of impunity, 
instability  in  the  Arab  and  Muslim  world,  the  case  of 
Somali piracy, illegal immigrations, persons displaced 
by  war,  problems  regarding  the  Rom  issue,  religious 
confrontations,  management  of  land  and  sea  borders, 
and food insecurity. It is undeniable that much remains 
to  be  done  to  save  human  lives,  because  still  civilian 
populations  remain  the  primary  victims  of  conf licts 
and disputes throughout the world.
The world is in upheaval, and many countries are in 
a situation of transition. Their peoples demand change 
and hope for sustainable development. Those countries 
need  to  be  supported  and  encouraged,  not  sanctioned. 
In  that  context,  allow  me  to  highlight  the  case  of  my 
own country, Madagascar. 
Madagascar  is  a  country  emerging  from  crisis, 
thanks to the involvement of the bodies of the Southern 
African  Development  Community  and  the  support  of 
the African Union, the Indian Ocean Commission and 
the  International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie.  A 
road  map  was  signed  and  adopted  by  the  Malagasy 
political  parties  in  September  2011.  Thus,  several 
significant steps have been taken. The Malagasy parties 
have honoured their commitments. All the transitional 
institutions have been set up, including a national unity 
Government  and  the  transitional  Parliament.  The  road 
map,  which  we  can  call  a  political  agreement,  has 
allowed us to launch the electoral process.
Madagascar  needs  to  take  its  destiny  into  its  own 
hands, to write its own history, and to end the cycle of 
political instability through the holding of credible and 
transparent elections, guaranteed by the establishment 
of  the  Independent  National  Electoral  Commission 
of  the  Transition.  Above  all,  recently,  in  concert  with 
United  Nations  experts,  the  electoral  timetable  for 
12-52207
9
A/67/PV.10
Madagascar  was  officially  announced,  including  the 
holding  of  presidential  elections  scheduled  for  8  May 
2013. Thus I launch a solemn appeal to all international 
partners, all Member States and friends of Madagascar 
to support us and encourage us in that approach, which 
is the only and most democratic path forward. 
Profoundly  committed  to  the  values  of  solidarity, 
tolerance and peace, Madagascar is now searching for 
swift development and a better future. During the three 
and  a  half  years  of  transition  and  despite  all  attempts 
at destabilization, we have worked tirelessly every day 
to  honour  our  commitments  and  ensure  the  protection 
of  our  countrymen,  all  the  while  addressing  social 
problems. In spite of challenging times, and despite the 
suspension  of  international  aid  and  subsidies,  which 
once accounted for 60 per cent of the State budget, we 
have been able to keep the administration functioning 
normally and have honoured all our commitments and 
debts.
Madagascar  is  indeed  one  of  the  least  developed 
countries.  Nevertheless,  it  is  one  of  the  least  indebted 
countries  in  the  world  since  its  debt  amounts  to  only 
5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), compared 
to  other  countries  whose  debt  rate  can  reach  up  to 
238 per cent of GDP. Therefore, it is possible to develop 
our  country  and  create  our  wealth  through  our  own 
resources. That is the challenge that we are meeting.
Now  it  is  high  time  to  embark  on  in-depth  reform 
to  create  an  effective  system  that  meets  the  highest 
expectations  of  our  respective  populations  —  not 
forgetting, obviously, the need to double or even triple 
our  commitments  to  fighting  poverty  and  promoting 
sustainable development. Here today, I launch an appeal 
for  international  solidarity  to  channel  the  transition 
towards the building of a more promising future — but 
without stif ling us.
The  Malagasy  people  need  their  full  and  entire 
independence,  but  above  all  they  must  be  able  to 
hold  transparent  and  therefore  democratic  elections. 
I  know  that  everyone  here  is  sincerely  willing  to  lend 
us  support.  So  allow  me  to  give  the  Assembly  the 
solution. The best way to help us is to trust us, honour 
the  commitments  made  and  let  us  shoulder  our  own 
responsibilities.  In  the  name  of  universal  values  and 
principles, anyone meeting the conditions of eligibility 
dictated by law is fully entitled to exercise that liberty. 
That  is  a  fundamental  principle,  and  all  States  must 
respect  it.  The  Malagasy  people  alone  —  not  other 
countries  or  external  pressure  —  have  the  sovereign 
right  to  decide  who  should  guide  their  destiny.  The 
Malagasy people alone will choose the man or woman 
who will lead Madagascar.
If confidence is shown in the Malagasy people, they 
will be grateful. The concepts of non-interference and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  each  country  establish 
mutual trust, which is a basic rule for all international 
negotiations.  They  are  among  the  peaceful  means 
needed  to  build  lasting  peace.  Efforts  must  be  made 
to  put  an  end  to  the  inequalities  in  how  countries  in 
political crisis are treated. The realities on the ground 
and popular aspirations must be acknowledged in order 
to avoid making the wrong decision. 
Despite  our  disagreements  and  our  differences  on 
how  to  achieve  a  peaceful  settlement  of  our  conf licts, 
we  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are 
unanimous  in  our  firm  desire  for  peace.  The  United 
Nations system cannot just be the police of the world; 
it also needs to be a source of hope and of values. Our 
societies  need  to  exist  and  find  their  way  through 
their  own  values,  because  it  is  social  and  economic 
ills,  injustice,  the  lack  of  protection  for  vulnerable 
populations  and  intolerance  for  minorities  that  often 
cause States to collapse. 
As  far  as  its  modest  means  allow,  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar  is  determined  to  contribute  to  achieving 
our shared goals. The peace accord is fragile and needs 
to  develop.  To  quote  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  “All 
progress is precarious, and the solution of one problem 
brings  us  face  to  face  with  another problem”.  It  is  our 
duty and responsibility to provide a better future for the 
generations to come. Global stability requires tolerance, 
assistance, the creation and equitable sharing of wealth, 
and poverty reduction through sustainable development 
and  reconciliation.  The  principles  of  adjustment  or 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means 
requires  a  return  to  our  values,  gender  balance  and 
equality,  and,  above  all,  democratic  alternation.  God 
bless our nation!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Transition 
of the Republic of Madagascar for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
Transition  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
10 
12-52207
Address by Mr. Nicolae Timofti, President of the 
Republic of Moldova
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova.
Mr.  Nicolae  Timofti,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Nicolae Timofti, President 
of the Republic of Moldova, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Timofti  (spoke  in  Moldovan;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-seventh session and to wish him every success 
in  that  highly  honourable  and  important  role.  I  am 
convinced that his rich experience will contribute to the 
achievement of significant results in our work together. 
I  convey  my  appreciation  as  well  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for  the  exemplary 
manner  in  which  he  led  the  sixty-sixth  session.  I  also 
wish  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon  for  his  ongoing  efforts  to  revitalize  the  global 
role  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  bring  reforms  to the 
Organization. 
It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  speak  from  this 
rostrum  for  the  first  time  on  behalf  of  the  people  of 
the  Republic  of  Moldova.  Twenty-one  years  ago,  my 
country broke away from the Soviet empire, and today 
it is undergoing a process of democratic transformation, 
with membership in the European Union as its ultimate 
goal. After a period of several years marked by political 
turmoil,  my  country  now  enjoys  political  stability, 
which  allows  it  to  develop  and  modernize.  We  have 
firmly  defined  European  integration  as  our  objective 
and have revived the economic and social reforms. Our 
priorities  are  the  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
comprehensive  judicial  reform,  with  an  emphasis  on 
fighting corruption, modernization of the economy and 
reintegration of the country. 
The  support  and  assistance  provided  by  our 
European  partners  from  Brussels  and  United  Nations 
Member  States  are  extremely  important  for  us  and 
assure  us  that  we  are  on  the  right  path.  Two  decades 
ago, on the very day the Republic of Moldova joined the 
A/67/PV.10
United  Nations,  the  peace  in  my  country  was  shaken. 
The  armed  conf lict  in  the  Transnistrian  region  of  the 
Republic of Moldova lasted for five months and caused 
the loss of many lives. It was a tragic period that, while 
now  past,  continues  to  pose  a  serious  challenge  in 
the  present.  Since  the  end  of  the  hostilities,  Moldova 
has  firmly  embarked  on  the  road  towards  a  peaceful 
settlement of that conf lict. Twenty years of negotiations 
have strengthened our belief that that is the only viable 
path to follow in order to reach a political settlement. 
It  is  obvious  that  the  perpetuation  of  the  conf lict 
does  not  offer  any  real  benefit  to  the  majority  of  the 
people on either bank of the Nistru river. It undermines 
our national security and territorial integrity, hampers 
economic  development  and  divides  our  society. 
Moreover,  the  conf lict  keeps  the  population  of  the 
Transnistrian  region  in  isolation,  incites  human  rights 
violations  and  generates  economic  stagnation  on 
the  left  bank  of  the  Nistru.  The  current  political  and 
economic trends show that preserving the status quo is 
not a viable scenario anymore. All of our international 
partners  share  the  view  that  there  is  no  alternative  to 
a  reunified  Moldova.  Our  message  in  that  regard  is 
firm – 20 years are enough to overcome the mistrust of 
the past and it is time to start building a shared future.
The key elements in the approach of the Moldovan 
authorities  to  resolving  the  conf lict  are  also  clear. 
Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  reintegrate  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  within  its  internationally  recognized  borders 
as a functional State with a clear European perspective. 
The  Transnistrian  region  should  be  granted  a  special 
status  within  Moldova,  which  will  provide  the  region 
with  a  comfortable  level  of  self-governance.  Defining 
the  special  status  is  the  core  task  of  the  political 
negotiations  in  the  “5+2”  format.  That  negotiation 
process should lead to a reasonable compromise based 
on  the  principles  of  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of the Republic of Moldova.
to 
In  parallel,  we  will  continue 
implement 
confidence-building  measures  aimed  at  bringing 
communities  from  both  banks  of  the  Nistru  River 
closer  to  each  other.  By  promoting  business  links, 
ensuring  freedom  of  movement,  protecting  human 
rights,  improving  security  and  combating  criminality, 
we will prepare a better ground for a political solution. 
Transformation  of  the  existing  military  peacekeeping 
mechanism into an international civilian mission aimed 
at building confidence rather than separating the sides 
has also become an imperative.
12-52207
11
A/67/PV.10
Our  international  partners  provide  an  essential 
contribution to bringing that conf lict to an end. Growing 
assistance from the European Union is an encouraging 
example  in  that  regard.  The  negotiation  process  now 
needs  a  strong  stimulus,  and  we  believe  that  our 
international  partners  can  demonstrate  the  necessary 
political  will  to  that  end.  We  call  on  the  5+2  format 
negotiators,  namely,  the  Organization  for  Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Ukraine, the European Union and the United States of 
America, to pool their efforts and work together towards 
the  final  resolution  of  the  Transnistrian  conf lict  and 
reintegration of the Republic of Moldova.
It is also important to reiterate that Russian forces 
are  still  present  on  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, without the consent of the host country and in 
breach of the Moldovan Constitution and international 
commitments, and they should be finally withdrawn.
The universal character of the United Nations and 
its  unique  role  in  managing  international  relations 
are  widely  recognized.  There  is  no  alternative  to 
this  Organization.  Yet,  globalization  and  the  global 
financial  crisis  have  demonstrated  the  need  to  reform 
the  Organization  in  order  to  ensure  the  progressive 
and sustainable strengthening of the United Nations. I 
am  referring  in  particular  to  Security  Council  reform, 
to  which  a  compromise  solution  should  be  found.  We 
believe that any proposal for its reform should take into 
account the legitimate aspirations of all regional groups, 
including granting an additional non-permanent seat to 
the Eastern European States.
In  its  capacity  as  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, the Committee on Conferences, the Policy and 
Programme  Coordination  Committee,  the  Committee 
on  Information,  the  Commission  for  Population  and 
Development and other United Nations elective bodies, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  will  continue  to  support 
efforts  towards  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United Nations system and its main bodies and organs, 
including  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  aimed  at 
enhancing  the  efficiency,  transparency,  accountability 
and representativeness of the system.
and  management  of  conf licts,  including  protracted 
ones.  From  that  point  of  view,  during  this  session  we 
will strongly support the consideration by the General 
Assembly  of  the  issue  of  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional organizations, particularly 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe, the Council of Europe, the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation Organization and other organizations.
In  the  same  context,  considering  the  distinct 
objective  devoted 
to  democracy  and  economic 
development, the increased potential and role in economic 
development  and  regional  integration,  as  well  as  the 
strong  determination  of  the  countries  of  the  Georgia, 
Ukraine,  Azerbaijan,  Moldova  (GUAM)  Organization 
for Democracy and Economic Development to actively 
contribute to international security, stability and peace, 
the  delegations  of  its  member  States  have  decided  to 
advance  for  consideration  of  the  General  Assembly 
during  its  current  session  a  draft  resolution  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and GUAM.
At  this  stage,  the  process  of  development  and 
integration  of  our  States  is  still  burdened  by  some 
outstanding  problems,  including  unresolved  conf licts 
in  the  territories  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan, 
Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. We reaffirm our 
unswerving commitment to finding peaceful solutions 
to  those  conf licts  on  the  basis  of  respect  for  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of our countries.
Promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international levels is at the heart of the United Nations 
mission and is fundamental to achieving durable peace, 
supporting  openness  in  Government,  the  effective 
protection  of  human  rights  and  sustained  economic 
growth and development. We emphasize the importance 
of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on 
the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels 
(A/67/PV.3),  held  on  24  September,  and  will  continue 
to  support  efforts  in  that  direction  during  the  sixty-
seventh session. In our view, strengthening the rule of 
law will help to maintain peace, promote development 
and enhance cooperation, and is therefore conducive to 
the  achievement  of  the  goal  of  building  a  harmonious 
world.
The  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional organizations is of paramount importance for 
the maintenance of international peace and security. In 
many  instances,  all  those  organizations  have  unique 
and  complementary  capacities  that,  when  properly 
coordinated, can contribute decisively to the prevention 
The  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  disarmament  and  the  efficient  control  of 
armaments  remain    vital  topics  on  the  international 
cooperation  agenda,  which  need 
the  common 
understanding, political will and engaged efforts of all 
States and international organizations. The Republic of 
12 
12-52207
Moldova  fully  supports  the  international  community 
in  exerting  continuous  control  of  and  applying  the 
necessary  preventive  measures  against  unlawful 
attempts  to  develop  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
their  means  of  delivery,  which  pose  a  real  threat  to 
international  security  and  are  often  used  to  challenge 
the existing world order.
tangible  steps 
is  undertaking 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  established  significant 
objectives  and 
in 
accomplishing its priorities in the field of arms control. 
In  cooperation  with  our  partners,  the  Government  of 
the Republic of Moldova is in the process of adjusting 
to  the  best  international  standards,  adopting  dual-use 
goods export control legislation, improving small arms 
and  light  weapons  management  for  civilians  and  the 
military,  ensuring  proper  border  management,  and 
actively  cooperating  at  the  regional  and  international 
levels.
Military conf licts in different regions of the planet 
and  the  global  economic  crises  have  brought  human 
rights issues once again to our attention. The principles 
of  international  law  and  human  rights  standards  can 
be  promoted  only  by  joint  efforts  and  decisions.  Acts 
of  aggression,  including  attacks  against  the  personnel 
and  integrity  of  diplomatic  facilities,  represent  a 
violation  of  international  norms  and  deserve  our  firm 
condemnation.  The  relevant  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations,  including  the  Human  Rights  Council,  have 
sufficient instruments to take action on behalf of States 
in  order  to  prevent  human  rights  violations,  conduct 
country evaluations and provide tailored solutions.
As a member of the Human Rights Council for the 
term  of  2010  to  2013  and,  as  Vice-Chair  of  the  Third 
Committee  at  its  previous  session,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  continuously  pledges  to  keep  an  open  mind 
in  furthering  the  cause  of  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights worldwide.
is  an 
The  world  economic  crisis 
incentive 
for  putting  into  practice  the  idea  of    sustainable 
development,  which  could  simultaneously  provide 
solutions for maintaining the pace of economic growth 
and  prevent  climate  change.  We  support  the  renewal 
of  the  global  commitment  made  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de 
Janeiro,  Brazil,  and  the  agreement  on  establishing  the 
sustainable  development  goals  (see  resolution  66/288, 
annex).  We  believe  that  promoting  a  green  economy 
model  will  help  enterprises  to  reconfigure  in  order  to 
streamline natural, human and economic investments.
A/67/PV.10
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the  Republic 
of Moldova is a strong supporter of the United Nations 
role  in  global  governance  and  the  management  of 
international  crises.  We  believe  in  the  potential  and 
capacities  of  the  United  Nations  to  find  adequate 
responses and take concrete actions aimed at resolving 
the ever-increasing global challenges. The Republic of 
Moldova is definitely contributing to that activity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Moldova for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nicolae  Timofti,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Estonia.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves, 
President of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Ilves:  It  is  an  honour  once  again 
to  address  the  United  Nations.  This  year  I  would 
like  to  focus  on  responsibility.  The  recent  years  of 
economic  and  financial  turbulence  have  demonstrated 
a  strong  correlation  between  economic  prudence  and 
responsibility  in  fiscal  matters.  We  have  realized,  I 
hope,  that  sustainability  is  not  a  term  we  apply  only 
to  development,  but  concerns  all  of  us.  Responsibility 
and sustainability apply to the three broad topics I shall 
address  today:  human  rights,  good  governance  and 
development. But before doing so, I would like to speak 
about diplomacy. 
The  purpose  of  diplomacy  is  to  prevent  war. 
When  diplomats  are  attacked  we  are  all  less  secure. 
We  know  what  we  are  talking  about  —  we  too  have 
had  our  diplomats  attacked,  mercifully  without  the 
horrific  consequences 
in  Benghazi. 
Therefore,  the  recent  assaults  in  many  parts  of  the 
world  on  diplomats,  embassies  and  consular  premises 
that  occured 
12-52207
13
A/67/PV.10
are  deplorable.  Regardless  of  their  motivations,  such 
acts  are  unjustifiable  and  must  be  universally  and 
unequivocably  condemned.  All  countries  must  fulfil 
their international legal obligation to protect diplomatic 
and consular properties and personnel.
As  recent  events  have  demonstrated,  when  it 
comes to human rights it is not enough merely to keep 
your  own  house  in  order.  As  a  conscientious  member 
of  the  international  community,  Estonia  feels  the 
responsibility to do more globally. That includes paying 
attention  to  human  rights  violations  in  places  torn  by 
conf lict, as well as doing more to stop and prevent the 
violation  of  the  rights  of  women  and  the  child.  It  also 
means  making  the  most  of  new  technologies  in  the 
service of fundamental rights and freedoms. The need 
to take responsibility and do more is also why Estonia 
looks  forward  to  becoming  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council and to working proactively towards the 
fulfilment of its mandate.
Permit  me  to  touch  upon  the  developments  in 
Syria.  We  have  witnessed  the  complete  breakdown  of 
any  semblance  of  the  rule  of  law.  We  continue  to  see 
extensive human rights and international humanitarian 
law  abuses.  It  appears  that  both  sides  have  committed 
serious international crimes. Yet we still see no solution. 
We cannot look on and wait for the violence to spread 
even more widely. The Security Council — especially 
its  permanent  members  —  must  overcome  their 
differences  and  find  a  solution  to  the  bloodshed.  The 
least that all parties must do is to allow for humanitarian 
aid to be safely delivered and to guarantee the security 
of humanitarian workers. Without an end to the armed 
conf lict,  without  peace,  there  can  be  no  political 
process.
But  it  is  not  only  Syria  that  needs  our  attention. 
We should not avoid the problem of protracted conf licts 
that  have  already  waited  for  years  to  be  solved.  We 
shall speak with one voice against continuing violations 
of  the  territorial  integrity  of  sovereign  States  and  for 
the  secure  return  of  all  forcefully  displaced  persons. 
Moreover, more attention to conf lict prevention would 
help to avoid such violations in the future.
A stronger commitment to conf lict prevention and 
to the enhancement of the rule of law can help to avoid 
violent  conf licts  and  the  most  heinous  international 
crimes.  Under  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect,  States  committed  in  2005  to  protect  their 
people  from  ethnic  cleansing,  genocide,  war  crimes 
and crimes against humanity. Today the content of the 
responsibility to protect is not debated. The difficulty, 
however,  lies  with  its  application:  when  Governments 
do  not  live  up  to  their  responsibility,  the  international 
community must react and act.
criminal 
justice 
The 
international 
system, 
especially  the  International  Criminal  Court,  plays  a 
crucial role in providing timely and decisive responses 
to  such  crimes.  Investigations  by  the  Court  may  deter 
further atrocities, prevent their escalation or accelerate 
their end. It is therefore essential to cooperate with the 
Court and apprehend those it has indicted.
As  a  result  of  the  evolving  nature  of  military 
conf licts,  civilian  casualties  tragically  are  on  the 
rise.  Among  civilians,  women  and  children  are  the 
most  vulnerable.  When  we  take  that  into  account, 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women, 
peace  and  security,  takes  on  a  whole  new  immediacy. 
Furthermore,  conf lict-related  sexual  violence  requires 
more attention. Such violence can easily lead to further 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Moreover, 
in  advancing  the  rights  of  the  child,  the  International 
Criminal  Court’s  recent  decision  to  convict  Thomas 
Lubanga Dyilo was a significant achievement and will, 
we hope, have a strong deterrent effect in the future to 
prevent crimes against children.
The Crimean War, in the 1850s, brought the world 
the  first  extensive  photographic  reports  of  conf licts. 
Today,  new  media  make  it  even  more  difficult  to  hide 
war  crimes  both  on  and  off  the  battlefield.  Modern 
technology  brings  home  the  reality  and  horror  of  war. 
We  must  therefore  recognize  the  important  role  of 
technology in advancing human rights.
Freedom of expression is a human right, whether in 
the city square, the press or in cyberspace. For the third 
year in a row, Freedom House has ranked Estonia first 
in  the  world  in  Internet  freedom.  We  have  joined  the 
coalition  Freedom  Online,  a  group  of  States  working 
closely  together  to  advance  human  rights  online.  In 
addition, Estonia looks forward to discussing  actively 
matters  relating  to  Internet  freedom  in  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  which  adopted  a  resolution  on  that 
topic  this  year  (resolution  20/8).  The  resolution  was  a 
genuine  milestone  affirming  that  fundamental  rights 
in  the  virtual  world  must  be  protected  with  the  same 
commitment as in the real world.
Internationally, there are worrisome developments 
related  to  Internet  governance.  Too  many  countries 
speak  about  the  dangers  of  a  free  Internet  from  a 
14 
12-52207
security  perspective.  The  truth  is,  as  we  know  well, 
that  cybersecurity  is  needed  to  prevent  oppressive 
Governments and criminals from wreaking havoc. It is 
not to prevent peaceful individuals from speaking their 
minds or gathering information and exchanging ideas.
Despite having experienced extensive cyber attacks 
during the so-called Web War One, five years ago, Estonia 
does not support more rigid regulation and censorship 
in cyberspace. Estonia is committed to an open, secure 
and reliable Internet. It is therefore imperative to ensure 
that the International Telecommunication Union’s new 
regulation  does  not  lead  to  the  restriction  of  Internet 
freedom and unnecessary limits to the free f low of ideas 
and information. In fighting cybercrimes, the Budapest 
Convention  on  Cybercrime  provides  the  appropriate 
and primary legal framework at the global level.
Globally, there is a deficit of good and responsible 
governance.  Its  lack  is  the  root  cause  of  countless 
other  ills.  But  again,  some  progress  has  been  made. 
I  was  proud  to  represent  Estonia  when  I  signed  on 
to  the  Open  Government  Partnership,  along  with 
representatives of 42 other countries. That multilateral 
initiative aims to take concrete steps to institute a new 
model of governance to maximize the potential of new 
technologies and, most important, to tackle corruption.
The  information  revolution  we  experience  these 
days  has  assisted  Estonia  to  successfully  and  rapidly 
transform  itself  into  a  rule-of-law-based  democratic 
society.  Estonia  was  the  first  country  where  people 
could  cast  their  vote  online  in  parliamentary  and 
municipal  elections.  Just  a  few  months  ago  we 
conducted our census for the first time to a large extent 
online. This year more than 90 per cent of taxpayers in 
Estonia filed annual income tax returns via the Internet. 
E-government, 
e-medical  prescriptions 
and  e-parking  are  examples  of  Estonian  innovation 
in  the  field  of  citizen-friendly  public  services.  They 
increase  transparency  and  help  to  prevent  and  cut 
down corruption. They reduce costs. Most importantly, 
however, they have increased the possibility to exercise 
fundamental rights and freedoms and improve inclusive 
and responsible governance. Therefore, Estonia wishes 
to  share  its  e-governance  skills  and  to  continue  to 
facilitate exchanges with partners worldwide.
e-school, 
My comments on the need to do more apply to the 
United Nations too. Without reform, its global mission 
will  be  unsustainable.  We  need  change,  ranging  from 
reforming  the  United  Nations  in  the  broadest  sense  to 
cutting  the  waste  of  paper.  In  an  information  age  it  is 
A/67/PV.10
increasingly necessary to distinguish noise from signal, 
to distinguish genuine data from spin.
I  have  spoken  thus  far  about  what  Governments 
can  and  must  do.  In  our  increasingly  interconnected, 
wired and wireless world, civil society and the private 
sector  play  an  ever-greater  role.  Governments  benefit 
from 
involving  non-governmental  organizations, 
entrepreneurs  and  private  individuals  in  governance. 
Estonia  and  many  other  countries  increasingly  and 
successfully  do  so.  The  challenge,  however,  is  for  the 
United  Nations  system  —  a  multilateral  organization 
based on modern, post-Westphalian States — to embrace 
those  other  actors  and  to  involve  them  in  finding 
solutions and decision-making.
Allow  me  to  continue  by  sharing  some  thoughts 
related to development and responsibility. 
Sustainable  development  is  not  a  clichéd  utopia; 
nor  is  it  something  forced  on  us  from  above.  True 
development can be nothing other than sustainable. Yet 
we have seen unsustainability masked as development, 
despite the contradiction in terms.
Consider the global financial crisis. Burdening our 
children  and  grandchildren  with  mountains  of  debt  is 
immoral, as is living at the expense of others. Growth 
without responsibility is illusory. We have learned that 
the hard way. Let us not make the same mistake again.
We  are  another  year  closer  to  the  deadline  we  set 
ourselves  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). Were they too ambitious? I do not think 
so. Aiming high is the least we can do. There is no point 
in setting targets that we can be confident of achieving 
effortlessly.  Yet  we  must  resist  the  temptation  to  sell 
everything as a success if that is not the case. Failure to 
achieve all the MDGs is no excuse not to set new targets. 
The world needs sustainable development goals. We are 
still in a preliminary phase of the discussion. Let us aim 
high and do our best.
Despite 
the  world’s  best 
efforts,  millions 
remain  in  poverty.  The  information  technology  (IT) 
transformation  will  create  massive  opportunities  all 
over  the  world.  We  must,  however,  avoid  a  digital 
divide  that  would  stymie  this  historic  chance  to 
accelerate development in all parts of the world. I was a 
member of Kofi Annan’s high-level panel of experts on 
information and communication technology — already 
a decade ago — and I continue to be concerned about 
the  gap  between  the  digital  haves  and  have-nots, 
especially because, by investing in IT, countries such as 
12-52207
15
A/67/PV.10
mine have leapt into modernity and transparency. New 
information and communications technologies have the 
potential  to  trigger  the  next  industrial  revolution,  but 
governments cannot achieve it alone.
Entrepreneurs  expanding 
the  range  of  global 
knowledge  networks  are  key  partners  in  fighting 
poverty  and  creating  a  more  transparent  economy. 
They  can  also  make  an  outsized  difference  in  their 
communities  and  the  world.  However,  Governments 
must  provide  a  secure  and  fruitful  environment  for 
those  sorts  of  ideas  to  emerge  and  prosper.  Twenty-
one years after restoring our independence, Estonia is 
an  example  where  a  combination  of  responsible  free 
enterprise,  e-governance,  international  partnerships 
and  eco-friendly  policies  can  put  a  country  in  the fast 
lane of development.
Experience shows that if we fail to act responsibly, 
we will, in the end, be forced to do so. Let us begin by 
acting responsibly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Estonia for the statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Joyce Hilda Mtila Banda, 
President of the Republic of Malawi
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Malawi.
Mrs.  Joyce  Hilda  Mtila  Banda,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Mrs. Joyce Hilda Mtila Banda, 
President of the Republic of Malawi, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly.
President  Banda:  Allow  me 
to  congratulate 
the  President  on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. My delegation and I would like to assure him 
of Malawi’s full support during his tenure of office.
It is an honour to address the Assembly today for the 
first time in my capacity as President of the Republic of 
Malawi. As the Assembly may be aware, I took office 
in April of this year after the death of my predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Professor  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika.  On 
behalf of all Malawians, I express our appreciation for 
the support that the world gave us during that difficult 
time  in  our  country.  I  would  like  to  also  acknowledge 
in  particular  the  support  I  received  from  leaders  from  
the Southern African Development Community and the 
entire African continent when I assumed the presidency. 
The  support  that  I  received  is  a  mark  that  Africa  has 
indeed embraced women’s leadership.
Joining the world’s leaders here and becoming only 
the  second  female  Head  of  State  in  Africa’s  history, 
after Her Excellency President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of 
Liberia,  is  a  moment  of  pride  for  me.  However,  mine 
is  not  the  story  of  the  success  of  an  individual,  but  of 
a  people.  A  peaceful  and  constitutional  transition  of 
power  was  not  inevitable  when  my  presidency  began. 
It  is  the  courage  and  determination  of  the  people  of 
Malawi  that  made  it  possible.  The  people  of  Malawi 
have  made  a  decisive  choice.  They  have  chosen 
democracy,  they  have  chosen  peace  and  they  have 
chosen to work together to realize their destiny. It is my 
people’s  courage  and  determination  that  has  taken  me 
to the presidency, and which we will now apply to our 
national development. 
The theme of the general debate this year is “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or situations by peaceful means”. It allows us to ref lect 
on  some  of  the  conf lict  situations  around  the  world, 
including in Africa. Those conf licts have a devastating 
effect  on  the  lives  of  millions,  especially  women  and 
children. The impact of conf lict goes beyond the people 
directly  involved,  affecting  the  region  and  the  world. 
Let  me  agree  with  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
when  he  said  in  his  reappointment  speech  that  one  of 
the  greatest  opportunities  we  have  for  a  better  world 
without conf lict is through sustainable development. 
The biggest threats to security and peace are poverty, 
lack of opportunity and lack of hope. It is unacceptable 
to me as the President of Malawi, as it should be to the 
global community, that we have children continuing to 
suffer from malnutrition, or that they yearn to learn but 
have to sit under trees rather than in proper classrooms. 
It is unacceptable that a mother should die while giving 
birth  because  the  nearest  health  centre  is  far  away,  or 
that  thousands  die  of  diseases  that  we  have  answers 
for. It is unacceptable that the youth who represent the 
future  of  our  world  have  few  opportunities  to  realize 
16 
12-52207
their potential, or that they are not guaranteed a society 
where they can speak their mind. It is unacceptable that 
farmers and other workers continue to toil to make the 
best  of  what  they  have,  but  do  not  enjoy  the  fruits  of 
their labour due to lack of modernization, a supportive 
policy  environment  and  access  to  markets;  and  that 
they are buried under global tariffs and taxes. It is when 
those frustrations are in place that conf lict takes root.
For  decades,  I  have  fought  these  issues  in  Malawi 
as  a  social  justice  and  human  rights  activist  and 
through my work at the gra-ssroots. I have experienced 
the struggles of the poor and the suffering of Malawian 
women.  I  have  championed  the  advancement  of  the 
oppressed  and  marginalized,  fought  for  the  rights  of 
women and children, campaigned for the betterment of 
the  rural  and  urban  poor.  I  can  attest  to  the  fact  that 
the  experience  of  a  poor  and  disadvantaged  Malawian 
is  intimately  intertwined  with  that  of  Africans,  and 
indeed  with  that  of  the  people  of  the  least  developed 
countries.
Now,  as  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Malawi, 
I  have  a  vision.  My  vision  is  to  eradicate  poverty 
through economic growth and wealth creation. Malawi 
aims to create wealth by transforming the structure of 
the  economy,  promoting  the  private  sector  in  order  to 
achieve  economic  growth,  accelerating  job  creation 
and protecting the vulnerable and the excluded within a 
decentralized and democratic environment.
Specifically,  my  vision  is  to  transform  Malawi 
into  one  of  the  fastest-growing  African  economies  in 
the  next  decade.  For  me,  growth  is  not  merely  related 
to gross domestic product. Growth is about wealth and 
prosperity for all, opportunity for all, happiness for all, 
political and economic freedom for all. Growth is also 
about  growing  the  number  of  children  in  school  and 
young  people  in  jobs.  Growth  is  about  increasing  the 
number of mothers who give safe birth in a hospital and 
of growing the number of families who have plenty of 
food.
As  the  Assembly  may  be  aware,  for  the  past 
three  years  Malawi  has  faced  severe  economic  and 
social  challenges  brought  on  by  poor  political  and 
economic governance, which could have impacted our 
ability  to  accelerate  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Therefore, upon assuming 
office I immediately put in place an economic recovery 
programme  to  restore  macroeconomic  stability  in  the 
country so that we can not only address our immediate 
A/67/PV.10
macroeconomic issues, but also secure Malawi’s ability 
to meet the MDG targets. 
I would like to share that we are certain that we will 
be able to achieve five of the eight MDGs by 2015. And 
we  will  continue  to  strive  to  achieve  our  goals  of  the 
three  remaining  MDGs:  universal  primary  education, 
promoting  gender  equality  and  empowering  women, 
and  improving  maternal  health.  Coincidentally,  these 
three MDGs are related to issues that I have worked on 
throughout  my  life,  and  I  will  personally  ensure  that 
Malawi redoubles its efforts to make improvements in 
those areas. 
My  Government  realizes  that  the  potential  of 
Malawi  —  the  potential  of  our  land,  our  resources 
and,  most  importantly,  our  people  —  is  great.  But 
that  opportunity  will  be  seized  only  through  our  own 
efforts. That is why my vision is not just hopeful words. 
Our  willingness  to  take  tough  decisions  does  not  end 
here. Our plans need to be translated into action. To that 
end, within my first 100 days in office, Malawi held an 
inclusive  national  dialogue  on  the  economy  to  narrow 
down  five  priority  sectors  within  our  medium-term 
national  development  framework,  the  Malawi  Growth 
and  Development  Strategy  II.  The  five  priorities  are 
energy, tourism, agriculture, mining and infrastructure 
development.
Central  to  those  priorities  is  our  emphasis  on 
delivery  through  partnership  with  the  private  sector. 
We  will  facilitate  that  by  making  changes  aimed 
at  improving  the  business  climate.  My  Cabinet  has 
identified  three  specific  projects  within  each  priority 
sector  and  translated  that  into  an  implementation 
plan  for  the  next  two  years.  The  projects  range  from 
the  completion  of  essential  roads  and  rail  lines,  to 
setting  up  alternative  energy  sources  and  undertaking 
business  climate  reform  to  attract  investment  into 
agro-processing  and  mining.  The  projects  will  set  our 
country on a path of fulfilling its full potential. 
In addition, I have also launched two initiatives — the 
Presidential  Initiative  on  Maternal  Health  and  Safe 
Motherhood, and the Presidential Initiative on Poverty 
and Hunger Reduction — to fast-track the interventions 
needed  to  address  the  social  needs  of  disadvantaged 
groups, especially women and youth.
Malawi refuses to accept what others may consider 
to  be  our  destiny  —  the  status  of  underdevelopment. 
Malawi is committed to change that perception. But in 
so  doing,  my  Government  and,  indeed,  the  people  of 
12-52207
17
A/67/PV.10
Malawi  know  that  we  need  to  engage  the  rest  of  the 
global  community.  That  is  why,  within  days  of  taking 
office,  I  reopened  dialogue  and  engagement  with  our 
neighbours, with African leaders and with the rest of the 
world. The people of Malawi are grateful for the good 
will that many have shown us, and we are encouraged 
by the support of our partners.
Malawi  will  continue  to  need  global  support  in 
the  short  and  medium  terms.  We  need  this  support 
to  protect  the  rural  poor  from  food  shortages  caused 
by  prolonged  dry  spells  in  some  parts  of  the  country. 
Malawi  is  looking  for  partnerships  to  build  its  energy 
capacity.  Malawi  needs  support  to  attract  private 
investment  for  the  rich  potential  we  have  in  agro-
processing and mining, among others. We are looking 
for  partnerships  to  support  the  development  of  our 
transport  and  communications  infrastructure  in  order 
to improve access to markets.
Before  I  conclude  I  wish  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  following  three  issues  that  have  a 
bearing  on  most  of  the  least  developed  countries. 
First, I call upon the General Assembly to ensure that 
the  Istanbul  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action, 
adopted  in  Turkey  in  May  2011,  will  be  implemented 
in  their  entirety  in  an  effective  and  timely  manner. 
In  particular,  duty-free  and  quota-free  market  access 
and  supply-side  capacity  must  be  ensured  to  the  least 
developed countries.
Secondly, most least developed countries are facing 
the adverse effects of climate change, which is causing 
f looding, land degradation and drought. In that regard, 
Malawi  welcomes  the  recent  outcome  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  held 
in  Brazil,  where  international  consensus  emerged 
and  agreement  was  reached  on  important  areas  of 
sustainable development. The implementation of these 
agreements is very crucial for our future.
Finally,  on  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations,  Malawi  fully  supports  the  expansion  of  the 
Security Council in both permanent and non-permanent 
categories.  As  members  of  the  Assembly  are  aware, 
Africa  represents  one  of  the  single  largest  regions 
within  the  United  Nations,  and  a  very  significant 
proportion of issues discussed in the Security Council 
concern  the  African  continent.  It  is  for  those  reasons, 
therefore,  that  Malawi  joins  the  rest  of  the  African 
nations in demanding at least two seats in the permanent 
category and five seats in the non-permanent category, 
as stipulated in the Ezulwini Consensus. Africa has to 
lead  its  own  development,  and  that  will  be  a  step  in 
ensuring that it can.
At this moment, I say to the Assembly that Malawi 
is  on  a  journey  –  a  journey  to  change  its  trajectory;  a 
journey to make real change happen; a journey to foster 
private-sector growth; a journey to be an integral part 
of  the  global  community.    Malawi  is  ready  to  take  its 
turn  to  grow,  not  just  in  wealth,  but  in  opportunities, 
hopes  and  freedoms  for  all  of  the  Malawian  people. 
As  a  new  President  and  a  new  member  of  the  global 
community of leaders, I ask for the Assembly’s support 
as this one African country journeys to realize its full 
potential — for its people, for Africa and for the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement she has just made. 
Mrs.  Joyce  Hilda  Mtila  Banda,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
18 
12-52207
