United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
5th plenary meeting
Monday, 24 September 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.5
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Rodney Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the 
National and International Levels
Agenda item 83 (continued)
The rule of law at the national and 
international levels
The Acting President:I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Koichiro  Gemba,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Japan.
Mr. Gemba (Japan): The rule of law is wisdom that 
humankind  has  acquired  after  long  years  of  trial  and 
error. The essence of the rule of law is the supremacy 
of law over power, ensuring that all power is exercised 
for the purpose of people’s survival and happiness.The 
idea  of  the  rule  of  law  can  be  found  universally.  That 
is because the survival of humankind is maintained by 
virtue  of  mutual  love,  discourse  and  mutual  support. 
Where there is society, there is law.
The philosophy of the rule of law has a long history 
in  Asia,  including  Japan.  Buddhism  came  to  Japan 
in  the  sixth  century.  Mahayana  Buddhist  scriptures 
taught that kings who uphold the law to do good shall 
be  protected,  but  kings  who  ignore  the  law  to  do  evil 
and oppress people shall perish. In Japan, in the seventh 
century,  Prince  Shotoku,  a  philosopher-politician, 
established the Seventeen-article Constitution, Japan’s 
first body of constitutional law.
The  rule  of  law  is  a  universal  philosophy.  It  is 
not  something  unique  to  Europe,  and  that  should  not 
come as a surprise. That is because while there may be 
differences in culture or history between the East and 
the West, human society in itself should be the same.
In my view, the people of Europe have made two 
great  contributions  towards  establishing  the  rule  of 
law as a universal political truth for mankind.
The  first  was  to  create  democracy,  a  system  to 
establish laws through discussions. Laws must not be 
arbitrarily forced upon the people; they must be created 
through  dialogue.  Today,  parliamentary  democracies 
have been widely established in the world, and the laws 
are made by duly elected peoples’ representatives.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The  second  was  to  create  international  law,  the 
application  of  the  rule  of  law  in  inter-State  relations. 
International  law  is  also  created  through  discourse 
and  agreement  among  States.  The  wisdom  of  settling 
disputes  between  States  peacefully,  in  accordance 
with  the  law,  really  took  root  in  the  latter  half  of  the 
twentieth century.
As  the  representatives  of  today’s  international 
community,  we  have  the  responsibility  to  further 
promote  the  philosophy  of  the  rule  of  law  which  we 
have inherited from the past. However, we cannot yet 
claim that the rule of law has been fully established in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-51951 (E)
*1251951*
A/67/PV.5
the international community today. There are so many 
causes  of  tension,  such  as  international  terrorism,  the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and issues 
related  to  national  territories.  Now  in  particular,  the 
acts of violence committed by the Syrian Government 
against  innocent  civilians  must  not  be  tolerated  in  the 
context of the rule of law. We must strive to find ways 
to solve these issues peacefully, on the basis of the rule 
of law.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  today  the  importance  of 
international courts as a means of settling international 
disputes peacefully, in accordance with the law. In that 
regard,  in  order  to  facilitate  the  use  of  international 
courts, I call upon all States that have not yet done so to 
accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the International 
Court of Justice.
I  also  call  upon  States  to  accede  to  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  to  the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
I  should  also  like  to  reiterate  the  importance  of 
international cooperation in advancing the rule of law at 
the national level. Assistance to developing countries is 
especially important. In that connection, it is essential 
to develop legal systems and human resources in each 
State.  Based  on  its  own  experience,  Japan  has  been 
extending  support  in  various  forms  in  this  area  and 
remains committed to doing so.
Looking  back  at  the  twentieth  century,  we  see 
that  the  driving  force  of  human  society  was  not  just 
the  massive  economic  dynamism  created  after  the 
industrial  revolution,  nor  was  it  just  modern  military 
power,  including  nuclear  weapons.  In  the  end,  the 
greatest driving force behind history is the will of the 
people to pursue peace, liberty and equality.
Mankind  has  now  understood  the  truth  that  when 
the will of the people is elevated to the level of norms, 
such  norms  become  laws,  and  laws  bind  power.  That 
is  a  truth  that  we  must  not  forget,  as  we  are  the  ones 
responsible for the fate of mankind in the twenty-first 
century.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Villy  Søvndal, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Denmark.
Mr.  Søvndal  (Denmark):  I  wish  at  the  outset  to 
align  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer 
of the European Union.
Today,  with  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration 
(resolution  67/1),  the  international  community  has 
expressed its will to strengthen the rule of law so as to 
promote global peace, security and stability.
Today we have also affirmed that the rule of law is 
strongly  interlinked  with  the  obligations  of  our  States 
to respect and promote respect for international human 
rights  and  humanitarian  law,  and  to  provide  legal 
protection for all without discrimination.
Today,  confronted  with  the  global  challenges  of 
recovering  from  the  financial  crisis  and  eradicating 
poverty,  we 
important 
interrelationship  between 
law  and 
the  generation  of  economic  growth,  sustainable 
development, employment and better opportunities.
highlighted 
rule  of 
have 
the 
the 
Allow  me  to  thank  President  Jeremić  for  having 
trusted  the  representatives  of  Denmark  and  Mexico 
with the task of co-facilitating the Declaration adopted 
today. For both our countries, the rule of law is a core 
value and a principle of governance. I wish also to thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  vision  of  advancing  the 
rule of law as a critical enabler of the three main pillars 
of the United Nations: international peace and stability, 
development and human rights.
Seen from the perspective of Denmark, as a smaller 
State,  the  rule  of  law  provides  a  common  framework 
for  addressing  problems  that  transcend  borders.  The 
rule  of  law  is  a  fundamental  condition  for  creating  a 
level  playing  field  and  for  preventing  and  addressing 
conf lict.
Denmark is convinced that a rights-based approach 
to  development  is  necessary.  That  approach  is  clearly 
ref lected  in  the  new  Danish  strategy  for  our  bilateral 
development assistance, entitled “The right to a better 
life”.
The 
strategy 
recognizes 
the 
importance  of  ensuring  that  women,  children  and 
vulnerable groups have unhindered and equal access to 
justice, decision-making, resources and opportunities.
in  particular 
Denmark  views  the  fight  against  impunity  as  an 
important element of the rule of law. This year we are 
celebrating the tenth anniversary of the entry into force 
of the Rome Statute. The International Criminal Court 
(ICC), through hard work and the support of the current 
122 States parties, has gained an important foothold in 
the  fight  to  ensure  that  those  responsible  for  the  most 
serious  international  crimes  are  held  accountable.  But 
2 
12-51951
the  Rome  Statute  system  is  still  in  its  early  days  and 
in need of continuing political support. Denmark calls 
upon all Member States to lend their full support to the 
ICC and for those Member States that have not yet done 
so to join the Rome Statute.
While we work to make the International Criminal 
Court  a  universally  recognized  and  effective  body,  it 
must  be  remembered  that  the  primary  responsibility 
for  prosecution  rests  with  the  countries  themselves. 
International courts such as the ICC are complementary. 
They constitute a last resort, when national authorities 
fail to act. We therefore encourage States to strengthen 
national judicial systems and institutions.
On behalf of Denmark, I want to thank all Member 
States  for  their  contributions  to  our  joint  Declaration. 
Denmark  believes  that  there  is  a  need  for  an  ongoing 
process  to  see  how  the  rule  of  law  can  help  meet  the 
evolving global challenges we face. States will pursue 
that work, but civil society also has much to contribute 
to advancing the rule of law and human rights.
I welcome the many pledges made at today’s High-
Level Meeting. Denmark has also made several pledges 
today. Denmark looks forward to engaging in advancing 
the rule of law in cooperation with Member States, the 
United Nations and civil society organizations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Aurelia  Frick, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Justice, and 
Minister  for  Cultural  Affairs  of  the  Principality  of 
Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  In  2006,  Mexico  and 
Liechtenstein jointly requested the inclusion of an item 
entitled “The rule of law at the national and international 
levels”  in  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  Since 
then,  much  progress  has  been  made.  We  applaud 
the  hard  work  of  the  United  Nations  Rule  of  Law 
Coordination and Resource Group and we are confident 
that under the leadership of Deputy Secretary-General 
Jan Eliasson the Group will rise to new levels.
I  would 
like 
to  focus  on 
the  pledges 
that 
Liechtenstein has made.
Our  first  pledge  is  to  continue  to  promote  the 
ratification  and  implementation  of  the  provisions  of 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  with  regard  to  the  crime  of  aggression.  The 
importance  of  the  2010  Kampala  compromise  for 
the  rule  of  law  and  for  the  United  Nations  cannot  be 
A/67/PV.5
overstated.  It  is  not  just  a  technical  matter  to  define 
the crime of aggression in international law, and it was 
no  small  thing  for  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
to  agree  on  the  conditions  under  which  the  ICC  can 
investigate and prosecute perpetrators. The ICC would 
be prosecuting leaders who are responsible for the most 
serious  forms  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  against  other 
States.  Ultimately,  what  the  Kampala  compromise  did 
was  to  establish  a  new  mechanism  to  enforce  Article 
2,  paragraph  4,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
which prohibits States from using force against another 
State in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of 
the United Nations. The ICC will thus bring justice and 
its deterrent effect to a whole new place. It will protect 
States  from  aggression  by  other  States.  It  will  protect 
and enforce the United Nations Charter.
Liechtenstein  was  proud  to  be  the  first  State  to 
ratify  the  amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression,  on 
8 May, the anniversary of the end of the Second World 
War in Europe. We will support the ongoing ratification 
process through advocacy and with technical assistance, 
and we are willing to receive requests for assistance at 
any  time.  We  are  convinced  that  more  States  parties 
will  ratify  the  amendments  in  the  coming  years  in 
order  to  strengthen  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations Charter and enable the activation of the Court’s 
jurisdiction in 2017.
Our  second  pledge  is  to  continue  to  promote  the 
strengthening  of  political  support  for  the  ICC  by 
convening  an  informal  ministerial  network.  I  will 
launch that initiative in two days, here in New York, with 
a number of ministers who have personally committed 
to  the  ICC.  I  believe  that  such  an  informal  network  at 
the political level is precisely what the Court needs as 
it continues to carry the f lag of justice in a challenging 
international  environment.  It  goes  to  the  core  of  the 
dilemma that the Court is confronted with — the ICC 
is  a  purely  judicial  institution  that  mainly  stands  up 
for  itself  by  delivering  professional,  independent  and 
non-political  investigations  and  prosecutions.  It  is 
not  designed  to  have  the  necessary  tools  to  withstand 
political  headwinds,  and  therefore  it  does  not  have 
them.  That  is  particularly  true  in  situations  where 
it  is  mandated  by  the  Security  Council  to  undertake 
delicate  investigations,  and  even  more  so  when  the 
Security Council fails to fully support the Court after 
it refers a situation. We supporters must therefore stand 
up  for  the  Court  in  the  political  arena.  Have  we  done 
enough in that regard in recent years? In my view, far 
12-51951
3
A/67/PV.5
from  it  —  and  that  is  why  we  are  launching  this  new 
collaboration in support of the ICC.
to  an  efficient  and  transparent  judicial  administration 
system.
Our  third  pledge  is  to  submit  to  the  Security 
Council  suggestions  on  ways  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations sanctions system. We have been working with 
like-minded  countries  for  several  years  to  improve 
the  listing  and  delisting  processes  and  to  bring  some 
measure  of  due  process  to  targeted  sanctions.  We 
applaud  the  Security  Council  for  the  improvements 
made  in  some  areas,  in  particular  by  establishing  an 
ombudsperson  for  individuals  and  entities  that  have 
been identified as being associated with Al-Qaida. We 
also acknowledge that those procedural improvements 
were  not  easy  to  make,  because  the  Security  Council 
was not designed to deal with individuals when it was 
created.
Today,  fair  and  clear  procedures  for  sanctions 
listing  and  delisting  are  no  longer  an  experiment. 
Higher  standards  for  listing  and  the  ombudsperson 
process  have  improved  the  accuracy  of  the  Al-Qaida 
sanctions list, and therefore its credibility. It is a prime 
example  of  how  promoting  the  rule  of  law  is  not  just 
something for lawyers, but a tremendous political tool. 
Now  is  the  time  for  the  Security  Council  to  learn  the 
lessons  from  those  early  developments  and  to  apply 
them  to  other  sanctions  regimes  as  well.  We  look 
forward  to  working  with  our  like-minded  partners  to 
make concrete suggestions in that regard.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of Ecuador.
Ms.  Espinosa  (Ecuador)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
My  delegation  wishes  to  express  the  pleasure  of  my 
Government for the organization of today’s High-level 
Meeting.
As Article I of the Political Constitution of Ecuador 
states  that  my  country  is  a  constitutional  State  of 
rights and justice — social, democratic, sovereign and 
independent.  Under  those  premises,  we  consider  the 
rule of law to be a pillar for peaceful coexistence among 
citizens  and  nations.  We  therefore  defend  the  equality 
of citizens before the law and the sovereign equality of 
States  as  established  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, whereby no motivation or circumstance would 
be a reason for violating human rights or the sovereignty 
of States. At the national level, Ecuador recognizes for 
all citizens, men and women, national and foreign, the 
same  rights  and  obligations,  affirming  the  equality 
before  the  law  of  all  citizens  and  guaranteeing  access 
My  Government  believes  that  it  is  extremely 
important to comply with the international conventions 
and  instruments  that  protect  human  rights  and  ensure 
their  implementation  at  home.  Ecuador  is  a  signatory 
to  all  the  universal  human  rights  conventions  and 
instruments,  because  we  believe  that  protecting  those 
guarantees  without  distinction  is  a  vital  element 
of  peaceful  coexistence  and  the  full  enjoyment  of 
democracy.  Ecuador  therefore  not  only  defends  those 
rights internationally but puts them into practice as part 
of its foreign policy in the area of, for instance, the right 
to asylum and refuge.
The rule of law should help us deal with society’s 
evolution  and  with  emerging  problems  that  affect 
humankind.  The  current  environmental  and  climate 
crisis forces us to think about the need for an international 
body of law that guarantees the rights of nature, as my 
country’s  Constitution  does.  In  that  regard,  Ecuador 
proposes  that  the  international  community  begin  the 
process  of  producing  a  universal  declaration  on  the 
rights  of  nature.  The  rule  of  law  is  also  a  basic  tool 
for  the  development  of  peoples  and  for  establishing 
clear rules for encouraging foreign investment that are 
responsible and respectful of labour and environmental 
laws. We therefore favour the development of national 
standards  and  mechanisms  that  will  ensure  the  full 
enjoyment of democracy and put in place mechanisms 
that can more effectively ensure its operation.
We  respect  the  right  of  every  people  to  decide  its 
own  political  system.  Ecuador  therefore  believes  that 
it  is  crucial  that  we  encourage  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  a  body  whose  structure  is  still  based  on  the 
realities  of  half  a  century  ago  and  which  upholds 
privileges  for  some  States  to  the  detriment  of  others. 
Ecuador  therefore  renews  its  call  to  the  international 
community  to  conclude  the  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform,  which  should  not  only  ref lect  the 
new  international  scene  and  geopolitical  situation  but 
should  also  ensure  that  its  operations  are  democratic 
and transparent.
We  also  believe  in  respect  for  the  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  States,  a  principle  that  is 
a  fundamental  and  irreplaceable  pillar  of  the  rule  of 
law.  We  do  not  believe  that  the  pretext  of  protecting 
national security justifies encouraging the violation of 
national  sovereignty  or  a  State’s  territorial  integrity. 
We  therefore  firmly  repudiate  the  so-called  extra-\
4 
12-51951
territorial  application  of  national  laws  as  a  serious 
violation of the rule of law at the international level.
Similarly,  any  unilateral  means  adopted  outside 
the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  are 
clear  violations  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level.  Peaceful  coexistence  among  the  community  of 
sovereign States is founded on rules freely accepted by 
all;  thus  the  will  of  one  State  cannot  legally  validate 
the  use  of  force  as  a  way  of  resolving  disputes.  Nor 
can  we  use  the  excuse  of  protecting  national  security 
or  combating  transnational  threats  to  contravene  the 
provisions of the Charter.
It is vital that we strengthen regional mechanisms 
that  support  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law,  since 
thereby  we  strengthen  the  democratic  existence  of 
Governments  that  are  legitimately  constituted.  Latin 
America  has  made  great  progress  in  that  area.  In  that 
regard,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  existence  of  the 
democracy  clause  agreed  on  by  the  heads  of  State  of 
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations,  which  aims  to 
guarantee democracy in the region.
With  regard  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law 
nationally,  the  Government  of  Ecuador  attaches  great 
importance to a complete overhaul of the judicial code 
through comprehensive modernization that makes use of 
the most up-to-date technology, meritocracy, efficiency 
and  transparency  in  its  operations.  Similarly,  the 
existence  of  accountability  mechanisms,  transparency 
in public funding, public access to information and the 
strengthening of monitoring agencies that enable us to 
prevent and correct abuses and ensure proper spending 
of financing for public judicial bodies are all essential 
to  the  administrative  justice  system  in  Ecuador.  My 
Government  is  firmly  committed  to  making  progress 
in this area.
Lastly, it is essential to ensure that the alternative 
mechanisms  for  the  administration  of  justice  based 
on  the  law  of  indigenous  peoples  are  compatible  with 
the  traditional  systems,  ensuring  that  such  alternative 
systems  respect  the  human  rights  of  those  governed, 
as  covered  by  the  conventions  and  international 
instruments ratified by a State.
importance 
My  delegation  attaches  great 
to 
developing  the  rule  of  law,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  We  have  full  confidence  in  the  work 
being done by the Sixth Committee, whose role cannot 
be replaced by high-level committees, groups of experts 
or  forums  outside  the  Assembly,  which  is  the  highest 
A/67/PV.5
legislative  body  of  the  Organization  and  the  only 
international forum whose purview allows it to lead the 
process of developing and strengthening the rule of law.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Moukoko 
Mbonjo, Minister for External Relations of Cameroon.
Mr.  Moukoko  Mbonjo  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  take  the  f loor  on  behalf  of  the  President 
of  our  Republic,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Biya, 
whom  circumstances  have  unfortunately  detained  in 
Cameroon.  He  has  asked  me  to  deliver  the  following 
message to the General Assembly.
“I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
and  International  Levels.  I  would  also  like  to 
welcome Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s efforts 
in  this  important  area,  and  particularly  the  report 
he  delivered  at  the  Assembly’s  sixty-third  session 
(A/63/226).
“Seven years after the 2005 World Summit, our 
meeting today gives us the opportunity to evaluate 
and  reaffirm  our  joint  commitment  concerning 
the  issue  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international  levels,  as  a  fundamental  value  of  the 
Organization. In the light of the many political crises 
that have recently rocked the world, particularly in 
Africa, the concept of the rule of law has become a 
matter of special concern for States emerging from 
conflict.  In  that  regard,  we  are  seeing  an  ongoing 
search  in  which  every  country,  including  those  of 
the Old World, is engaged.
“Intimately  linked  to  the  respect  for  human 
rights and the equality of all before the law, the rule 
of  law  today  has  become  part  of  what  determines 
the legitimacy of public power. However, it should 
not  be  confused  with  a  simple  instrument  for  the 
political  and  legal  protection  of  the  individual;  it 
must also be seen as a way of enriching humankind 
politically,  economically  and  socially.  We  must 
never  forget  that  one  of  the  greatest  injustices  a 
person can endure is to be unable to feed or clothe 
himself,  to  find  shelter,  to  be  cared  for  or  live  in 
safety.  In  a  word,  the  first  function  of  the  rule  of 
law  is  to  act  as  a  defence  for  individuals  against 
being deprived of the basic requirements for human 
dignity.
12-51951
5
A/67/PV.5
“We  must  also  keep  in  mind  that  the  full 
protection  of 
individual  rights  and  freedoms 
is  impossible  except  through  the  principle  of 
indivisibility  and  an  equitable  application  of  all 
human  rights,  including  civil  and  political  rights, 
economic,  social  and  cultural  rights  and  the  right 
to  development.  In  our  view,  that  is  the  correct 
perspective  to  guide  the  actions  of  the  United 
Nations and Member States in promoting the rule of 
law at the national and international levels.
“The track record of the Organization shows that 
it is increasing its actions at the international level. 
It  is  in  the  interest  of  the  international  community 
for the United Nations not only to recommit to the 
founding principles of the Charter but also to stress 
the  obligation  of  States  to  abide  by  international 
law.  The  United  Nations  should  promote  equality 
before the law, both nationally and internationally. 
It is in everyone’s interest for States not to approach 
international law by means of the unequal exercise 
of power.
“It would be paradoxical for the community of 
nations  to  work  to  sow  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law  in  the  internal  political  and  judicial  workings 
of  States  while  ignoring  those  values  in  its  own 
international  intervention  mechanisms.  From  that 
point  of  view,  the  much-anticipated  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  takes  on  a  crucial  urgency.  We 
should recall that one potential source of dysfunction 
at the national and international levels is the lack of, 
or  disregard  for,  regulatory  mechanisms.  The  best 
way to ensure the primacy of international law in the 
settlement  of  disputes,  which  is  the  special  theme 
of  this  session,  and  more  generally  in  relations 
among States, lies in strengthening the International 
Court of Justice. The 2005 World Summit Outcome 
(resolution  60/1)  focused  on  the  important  role  of 
the principal judiciary organ of the United Nations 
and  urged  all  countries  that  had  not  yet  done  so 
to  accept  its  jurisdiction.  The  International  Court 
of  Justice  plays  a  critical  role  in  consolidating  the 
rule of law internationally. It is a principle to which 
we  attach  great  significance,  as  evidenced  by  our 
handling of the Bakassi peninsula dispute.
“In  Cameroon  the  rule  of  law  is  tied  to  both 
individual and collective development, as shown in 
our  adoption  and  implementation  of  development 
programmes and policies that are both ambitious and 
realizable,  alongside  promoting  democratic  values 
in  our  sociopolitical  life.  In  the  sphere  of  political 
institutions,  we  tirelessly  pursue  democratization, 
with  an  eye  to  fostering  pluralism  and  citizen 
participation  at  all  levels  of  public  affairs.  We  are 
also continuing to bolster civil liberties, especially 
freedom of the press and other media.
“As for good governance and the fight against 
corruption and embezzlement, we are strengthening 
our  efforts  to  stabilize  and  clean  up  the  public 
sector. Finally, in the realm of economic and social 
development,  we  are  engaged  in  a  programme  for 
major works, working to fulfil the economic rights 
of our citizens. Cameroon reaffirms its chosen path 
of  peace  and  stability,  without  which  any  attempt 
to enact the rule of law is meaningless. without the 
rule of law there can be no human dignity.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Arnold Nicholson, 
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Trade of Jamaica.
Mr.  Nicholson  (Jamaica):  The  Government  of 
Jamaica  welcomes  the  initiative  of  the  United  Nations 
in  convening  this  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of 
Law at the National and International Levels, given the 
acknowledged  importance  of  the  subject  at  both  the 
national and the international levels. History has shown 
that being faithful to the primacy of the rule of law is 
a  sine  qua  non  for  proper  democratic  practices  in  the 
search for a just and peaceful society and, by extension, 
geopolitical stability.
The  Jamaican  Constitution  came  into  effect  50 
years  ago  on  the  occasion  of  our  independence.  It  is 
the highest law in Jamaica and it is the very foundation 
on  which  our  value  systems  and  ideals  are  built. 
The  Constitution  treats  a  number  of  time-honoured 
democratic  fundamentals,  such  as  citizenship,  basic 
human  rights  and  freedoms  and  the  three  branches 
of  Government,  the  executive,  the  legislative  and 
the  judiciary.  Full  adherence  to,  and  the  effective 
protection  of,  the  rights  enshrined  in  those  provisions 
are crucial to upholding the rule of law at the national 
level. In recognition of that, we have amended Chapter 
III of our Constitution, which contained provisions on 
fundamental rights and freedoms, and replaced it with 
a more comprehensive Charter of Fundamental Rights 
and Freedoms. That Charter, which came into effect in 
April 2011, now provides for a more modern approach to 
certain fundamental freedoms, as well as to established 
civil and political rights.
6 
12-51951
to 
the  national 
We  remain  mindful  that  the  rule  of  law  is  not 
restricted 
level.  The  foundation 
principles  of  justice,  fairness,  accountability  and 
transparency  are  inextricably  linked  to  its  effective 
enforcement  at  the  international  level.  To  that  end, 
the Charter of the United Nations represents a body of 
principles,  which  we  all  solemnly  pledged  to  uphold 
upon  becoming  a  part  of  the  Organization.  Those 
principles  speak  to  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  its 
Members  and  the  development  of  friendly  relations 
among  nations,  based  on  respect  for  the  principle  of 
equal rights. They beckon us to refrain from the use or 
threat of force and to settle disputes by peaceful means, 
to promote and encourage respect for human rights and 
for  fundamental  freedoms  and  to  foster  international 
cooperation  in  facing  international  challenges  of  an 
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian nature.
The  Government  of  Jamaica  is  of  the  view  that  a 
strengthened  General  Assembly  and  the  continued 
reform of the Security Council will contribute in a more 
positive manner to the advancement of the rule of law at 
the international level. In that regard, we are convinced 
that  a  more  representative,  efficient,  accessible  and 
transparent  Security  Council  will  further  enhance  both 
the effectiveness and the legitimacy of the Council.
In my own country we face the ever-strengthening 
challenge of armed violence that is linked to the illicit 
trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  the  illegal 
drug  trade.  The  threat  posed  by  organized  crime  not 
only attacks the sovereignty of the State but constrains 
our  capacity  to  protect  civilians.  That  therefore  has 
immediate implications for our ability to uphold the rule 
of law.
International cooperation and assistance, then, are 
crucial in allowing countries to meet their own national 
objectives that are inherent in upholding the rule of law. 
Those  include  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and enhanced cooperation with our 
bilateral partners.
The complex nature of, and the increase in, highly 
sophisticated  illegal  activities,  such  as  cybercrime, 
have  underscored  the  importance  of  compliance  with 
international  obligations,  including  those  related  to 
terrorism,  narco-trafficking  and  organized  criminal 
enterprise. In addition, however, technical assistance is 
needed to tackle those and other new challenges, such 
as those related to financial crimes.
A/67/PV.5
In  conclusion,  we  urge  the  United  Nations  to 
sustain  its  engagement  on  those  issues  in  an  inclusive 
and transparent manner. We pledge our commitment to 
upholding  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  level  and  to 
working with our partners at the bilateral, regional and 
international levels in what inevitably must be a global 
endeavour.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Mourad Medelci, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria.
Mr. Medelci (Algeria) (spoke in French): The theme 
of the rule of law at the national and international levels, 
which brings us together today, gives us an opportunity 
to  renew  our  common  ambition  to  give  priority  to 
the  preeminence  of  the  rule  of  law.  This  meeting  is 
an  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  desire  to  strengthen 
international  law  and  the  universal  principles  and 
objectives  of  the  Charter,  which  are  the  basis  of  the 
international system.
Algeria is prepared to make its contribution to that 
community  of  the  future,  enriched  by  the  diversity 
of  our  national  realities,  which  enshrine  the  equality 
of  large  and  small  countries  in  participating  in 
multilateral  deliberations.  The  new  challenges  of  this 
period  of  transition  emphasize  the  urgency  of  putting 
at the centre of our concerns the imperatives of justice, 
development,  responsibility  and  accountability.  We 
all know that improving the rule of law is a perpetual 
requirement.  Without  that,  impunity,  injustice  and 
the  policy  of  double  standards  will  continue  to  erode 
the  moral  authority  of  the  multilateral  system  and  of 
international law.
From  that  standpoint,  the  General  Assembly  must 
rearrange  its  prerogatives  and  the  Security  Council 
must  be  democratized.  Likewise,  there  has  to  be 
more  coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and 
multilateral  institutions  in  the  economic  and  financial 
areas.  In  that  regard,  Algeria  deplores  the  lack  of  a 
settlement to the Palestinian problems, which are more 
than  60  years  old.  That  failure  acutely  demands  the 
application of the right to self-determination, a cardinal 
principle  of  the  Charter  and  a  legitimate  aspiration 
of  the  Palestinian  people.  The  same  applies  to  the 
Saharaoui people.
Furthermore, the rule of law cannot accommodate 
hateful  and  xenophobic  manifestations,  which 
in 
particular  include  the  phenomenon  of  Islamophobia. 
Consequently,  how  can  we  accept  that  the  freedom  of 
12-51951
7
A/67/PV.5
expression  dear  to  us  all  is  set  up  as  an  end  in  itself, 
in  the  name  of  which  defamatory  acts  are  authorized 
against  religions,  including  Islam?  Algeria  suggests 
that a mechanism be established under United Nations 
auspices  to  examine  the  ways  and  means  to  put 
an  end  to  such  tendencies  and  to  make  sure  that  the 
freedom of expression will be at the service of mutual 
comprehension  and  the  advent  of  a  more  united  and 
fraternal world.
nations, which is valid alike for war and in war”, thereby 
laying the foundation of modern international law. I do 
not quote Grotius without reason. The Netherlands has 
contributed  to  international  law  for  centuries.  In  1899 
and 1907, The Hague Peace Conferences were held, and 
not long afterwards the Peace Palace opened its doors. 
International law is practised in the Netherlands to this 
very day in the Peace Palace, as well as in many other 
international courts and tribunals.
Urgent  and  effective  solutions  are  also  required 
to  address  the  new  transnational  threats.  Algeria  is 
working  with  the  countries  of  the  Sahel  to  strengthen 
the  rule  of  law,  security  and  peace  in  the  region. 
Regional  cooperation  has  been  undertaken  to  combat 
underdevelopment, corruption and terrorist groups and 
their interconnections with organized crime networks.
At  the  national  level,  Algeria,  encouraged  by  the 
gains of the national reconciliation policy, is confidently 
pursuing its reform programme to establish democracy 
and  the  promotion  of  fundamental  rights,  including 
the participation of women in decision-making. In that 
context, pride of place is given to schools, which of all 
public services specifically help to train citizens.
In  Algeria  the  enjoyment  of  political  freedoms  is 
enhanced by the equitable redistribution of wealth. The 
protection of democracy is also ensured by the State’s 
help for citizens in need.
I  should  like  to  congratulate  the  President  and 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  organizing 
this  High-level  Meeting  on  an  extremely  important 
theme,  the  results  of  which  will  certainly  contribute 
to  consolidating 
law  nationally  and 
internationally.
the  rule  of 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Uri  Rosenthal, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands.
Mr. Rosenthal (Netherlands): Early this morning, 
we had a side event on the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
with  the  participation  of,  among  others,  the  President 
of the International Court of Justice and the Secretary-
General  of  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration.  The 
side event was attended by many people who share the 
common notion that the peaceful settlement of disputes 
is an important part of the promotion of the rule of law.
Dutch legal scholar Hugo Grotius was far ahead of his 
time. In 1625 he wrote, “There is a common law among 
Promoting 
international 
to  our 
hearts.  As  an  open  society  and  an  open  economy,  the 
Netherlands depends upon a strong international order, 
and therefore we do need the rule of law.
law 
is  dear 
Challenging  impunity  is  a  vital  part  of  promoting 
the rule of law. It is important that the perpetrators of 
crimes against humanity be held to account, regardless 
of  their  positions  —  whether  they  are  heads  of  State 
or  other  prominent  people.  The  recent  sentencing  of 
former head of State Charles Taylor by the Special Court 
for  Sierra  Leone  demonstrates  that  the  international 
community has made great progress in this area.
It  is  preferable  to  prosecute  perpetrators  in  the 
country  where  crimes  were  committed;  but  if  a  State 
is  unable  or  unwilling  to  do  so,  the  duty  falls  on  the 
international  community.  We  therefore  firmly  support 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  we  call  upon 
States  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Netherlands 
also  supports  effective  investigation  and  prosecution 
of international crimes at the national level. Therefore, 
together with Belgium and Slovenia, we will launch an 
initiative for a new international instrument on mutual 
legal assistance and extradition.
The  Netherlands  is  firmly  committed  to  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  The  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  instance,  certainly  needs  to  be 
strengthened  through  the  universal  acceptance  of 
compulsory 
the 
Netherlands therefore supports the campaign launched 
by the Secretary-General in his rule of law report last 
March (A/66/749).
jurisdiction.  The  Government  of 
We  are  also  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  home 
by  establishing  in  the  Netherlands  a  new  institute  for 
human  rights  to  further  promote  the  cause  of  the  rule 
of law.
In  the  Netherlands  we  continue  to  take  seriously 
the  importance  of  the  rule  of  law.  Former  Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali was the first to call The 
Hague “the legal capital of the world”, and we are proud 
8 
12-51951
of  that.  Next  August,  the  Peace  Palace  in  The  Hague 
will  celebrate  its  centennial.  To  mark  that  milestone, 
the  Netherlands  will  organize  a  meeting  to  promote 
and  advance  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  thus 
showing the world that we still want to play a leading 
role  in  promoting  international  law,  as  we  did  when 
Hugo  Grotius  wrote  his  famous  work  On  the  Law  of 
War and Peace so many centuries ago.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now give 
the f loor to Her Excellency Wivine Mumba, Minister of 
Justice and Human Rights of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo.
Ms.  Mumba  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 
(spoke  in  French):  In  preparing  for  this  meeting,  the 
Secretary-General  said  in  his  report  that  “Respect  for 
the rule of law at the international and national levels is 
central to ensuring the predictability and legitimacy of 
international relations, and for delivering just outcomes 
in the daily life of all individuals” (A/66/749, summary). 
How  then  can  one  not  condemn  the  disrespect  by 
one  State  for  the  intangible  principles  of  the  national 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  another  State, 
especially when the result is to prevent the latter from 
firmly establishing the rule of law?
The  presence  of  Rwanda  in  the  east  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo is therefore doubly 
to be condemned, because it violates international law 
and  undermines  the  progress  made  in  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
It  has  triggered  the  massive  displacement  of  whole 
groups of people, in particular of women and children, 
and  has  caused  the  resurgence  of  massive  human 
rights  violations,  including  the  recruitment  of  child 
soldiers and acts of violence against women such as the 
abduction  of  women  and  girls  by  armed  groups,  who 
force them into sexual slavery, which infects them with 
HIV/AIDS  and  causes  a  surge  in  atrocities  of  every 
type,  comparable  to  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity.  In  any  case,  the  seriousness  of  the  crimes 
demands  an  appropriate  legal  response.  However,  the 
response to this situation requires concerted action by 
the Congolese State and the international community.
As  the  Secretary-General  has  said,  it  is  the 
responsibility  of  Member  States  and  their  citizens  to 
strengthen the rule of law. The United Nations is ideally 
positioned to uphold the action of its Member States and 
to offer comprehensive and effective support. In practice, 
in order for that support to be truly comprehensive and 
effective,  it  is  imperative  that  the  United  Nations  and 
A/67/PV.5
the  Security  Council  adapt  the  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, whose activity we 
welcome, to the realities and needs on the ground.
The  accomplishments  of  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law  include  the 
following.
The  Congolese  Government  held  a  referendum 
leading to the adoption of the Constitution of 18 February 
2006,  which  lays  the  foundation  for  the  reform  of  our 
justice system as the engine for restoring the rule of law, 
affirms the independence of the judiciary, and defines a 
new organization of Congolese justice. In addition, more 
specifically, that reform seeks to promote and encourage 
the implementation of judicial policy through improved 
access  to  justice,  a  stronger  framework  for  promoting 
and protecting human rights, enhanced capacities, and 
improved  performance  of  actors  in  the  justice  system 
and the fight against corruption and impunity.
Moreover,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
has  ratified  almost  all  international  treaties  on  human 
rights and, since 1999, has had in place a national plan 
for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights, 
which  was  updated  in  2009.  Along  the  same  lines,  at 
an  institutional  level,  the  Congolese  Government  has 
established a human rights liaison entity.
With  respect  to  the  promotion  of  women’s  rights, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  ratified 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination against Women and has adhered to the 
Beijing  Programme  of  Action.  It  also  has  a  national 
programme  to  promote  Congolese  women,  a  national 
gender  policy  and  an  action  plan  to  combat  gender-
based and sexual violence.
With  respect  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
children’s  rights,  on  10  January  2009  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo enacted a law to protect children 
through  the  creation  of  courts  for  children,  whose 
installation commenced in 2011.
With 
regard 
to  promoting  democracy, 
the 
Constitution  adopted  by  referendum  on  19  December 
2005 enabled the successful holding of the first general 
elections, on 30 July 2006, which were free, transparent 
and democratic, with a term that expired in November 
2011.
As 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo has ratified a number 
transnational  organized  crime, 
for 
12-51951
9
A/67/PV.5
to  combat 
instruments 
international 
of 
terrorism 
and  transnational  organized  crime  and  is  currently 
reviewing  a  number  of  laws,  including  the  law  on  the 
fight  against  money-laundering  and  the  financing  of 
terrorism, as well as one on combating corruption.
In  the  light  of  what  I  have  mentioned,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  contributing  to 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  by  adhering  to  the  primary 
judicial instruments of the United Nations and its own 
internal  plans  for  reform.  In  line  with  that  policy,  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo has made a series of 
commitments.
the 
legislative 
We  are  accelerating 
reforms 
currently  under  consideration,  in  particular  those 
regarding  compensation  to  the  victims  of  sexual 
violence, implementation modalities for women’s rights 
and equality, and the modification and repeal of certain 
discriminatory provisions of the family code.
We  are  accelerating  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
legislation  on  establishing  a  national  human  rights 
commision.  We  are  reactivating  a  moratorium  on 
the  death  penalty,  reducing  duration  of  preventive 
detention,  formalizing  the  procedure  of  presidential 
clemency, and reducing the number of crimes for which 
the  death  penalty  can  be  imposed.  We  are  making 
a  commitment  to  sign,  jointly  with  the  special  team 
of  the  United  Nations,  an  action  plan  to  combat  the 
recruitment and use of children as well as other grave 
violations of the rights of children by armed groups and 
security  services.  We  are  establishing  machinery  and 
a strategy to combat corruption. We are implementing 
the  Rome  Statute  in  the  context  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.
In so doing, the ongoing reform process of our legal 
system  shows  that  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo 
remains determined to establish and maintain a system 
of  justice  that  is  fair,  reliable,  moral  and  effective,  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
international  law,  so  as  to  support  the  principles  of  a 
permanent rule of law.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Dato  Sri  Anifa 
Aman, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Malaysia.
Mr.  Aman  (Malaysia):  On  13  September  2006, 
the General Assembly decided to include in its agenda 
an  item  entitled  “The  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international  levels”  with  the  broad  support  of  all 
Member States.
Today,  we  convene 
inaugural  High-level 
Meeting on the Rule of Law, which ref lects our resolve 
to strengthen the rule of law at both the national and the 
international levels.
the 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  important  meeting.  I 
also wish to align my statement with that made by the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Association 
of South-East Asian Nations.
The  Declaration  (resolution  67/1)  that  we  adopted 
earlier  today  symbolizes  our  collective  commitments 
to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  in  areas  of  mutual 
interest,  such  as  ending  impunity  for  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  laws,  as 
well  as  democracy,  justice  and  human  rights,  among 
others.  There  is  a  symbiotic  relationship  between  the 
rule of law at the national and international levels; we 
must thereforefore ensure that equal emphasis is given 
to both.
in  good 
At  the  domestic  level,  Malaysia  believes  that 
States  must,  among  other  things,  honour  international 
obligations 
the  domestic 
implementation  of 
international  obligations, 
promote  and  protect  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms,  and  ensure  the  effective  administration  of 
justice.
faith,  ensure 
their 
Allow  me  to  share  some  of  our  initiatives  in 
strengthening the rule of law at the national level. The 
foundation of the rule of law in Malaysia is its federal 
Constitution,  which  is  the  supreme  law  of  our  nation. 
Based on the fundamentals therein, Malaysia continues 
to take measures to enhance and improve its laws, using 
the  principles  of  democracy,  equality  before  the  law 
and the rules of natural justice.
This  year,  the  Internal  Security  Act  of  1960 
was  repealed  and  replaced  by  the  Security  Offences 
Special  Measures  Act  of  2012.  Changes  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  country  over  the  past  decade  do 
not  justify  the  continued  application  of  the  older  law. 
That demonstrates that, while the Government remains 
committed  to  ensuring  that  security  is  constantly 
safeguarded,  the  rights  of  the  people  are  upheld.  The 
Government has also enacted a Peaceful Assembly Act 
of 2011, which was done to ensure adequate and proper 
regulations regarding the right to peaceful assembly, as 
enshrined in the federal Constitution. In upholding the 
rule  of  law,  there  is  a  delicate  balance  between  safety 
and security, on the one hand, and rights and freedom, 
10 
12-51951
on  the  other.  That  is  what  the  legislation  aims  to 
achieve. Laws cannot be broken under the pretext that 
one  is  exercising  fundamental  rights.  That  certainly 
goes against the very notion of the rule of law.
States have legal obligations to abide by international 
treaties  and  conventions,  based  on  the  fundamental 
principle  of  pacta  sunt  servanda.  Treaties  are  binding 
on the parties to them and must be performed in good 
faith.  That  obligation  also  extends  to  the  national 
level.  Treaty  obligations  should  be  transformed  or 
incorporated  into  domestic  legal  systems.  Malaysia 
ensures  that  its  international  treaty  obligations  are 
transformed  into  necessary  legislation,  policies  and 
action plans to fulfil treaty obligations. That is how we 
ensure domestic compliance with international treaties 
and uphold the rule of law.
There  may  not  be  one  single  definition  for  the 
rule of law, but there are certain core elements that we 
can  identify.  At  the  international  level,  for  instance, 
many  of  those  elements  are  important  principles  of 
international  law.  Malaysia  attaches  importance  to 
the  following  in  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level: the commitment to an international 
order  based  on  international  law;  the  obligation  of 
the  international  community  to  enforce  international 
law  in  a  non-selective  manner;  the  duty  of  all  States 
to  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  and  to  settle 
disputes  by  peaceful  means;  and  respect  for  the 
principles  of  sovereign  equality,  territorial  integrity 
and non-interference.
Clear examples of the importance of strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level  are  situations 
where 
there  have  been  persistent  violations  of 
international  law.  We  need  to  put  an  end  to  impunity 
and  hold  those  responsible  accountable  for  their 
actions.  Big  or  small,  strong  or  weak,  the  rule  of  law 
shall  apply  to  all.  There  will  be  no  meaning  in  our 
efforts  if  there  are  no  tangible  outcomes  to  address 
those  types  of  situations.  In  that  regard,  the  inclusion 
of  strong  language  on  ending  impunity  for  violations 
of international humanitarian law and gross violations 
of  human  rights  laws  in  the  Declaration  is  very 
appropriate. However, for it to work, action must be in 
conformity with international law and the decisions of 
the United Nations.
What  do  we  do  when  those  responsible  continue 
to violate international law and ignore United Nations 
decisions?  The  United  Nations  should  take  a  decision 
on  non-compliance  and  enforce  it,  regardless  who 
A/67/PV.5
the  violators  are.  No  one  should  be  above  the  law. 
Furthermore,  for  situations  involving  crimes,  such 
as  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes 
and  serious  and  gross  violations  of  international 
humanitarian and human rights laws, the exercise of the 
veto  in  the  Security  Council  should  be  avoided.  Only 
then  can  we  effectively  stop  those  crimes  from  being 
committed,  stop  impunity,  uphold  the  rule  of  law  and 
make the United Nations relevant and effective.
Malaysia  highly  values  this  meeting  and  believes 
that  it  advances  our  agenda  on  the  rule  of  law.  The 
international  community,  through  the  United  Nations, 
must continue to lead the way for nations to follow.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kim  Sung-hwan, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic 
of Korea.
Mr.  Kim  Sung-hwan  (Republic  of  Korea):  Ever 
since  global  leaders  made  a  landmark  commitment  to 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  2005  World  Summit,  we  have 
witnessed  an  increase  in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of 
law  at  both  the  national  and  the  international  levels. 
In  that  respect,  the  Republic  of  Korea  welcomes  and 
embraces  the  efforts  made  by  the  United  Nations  to 
strengthen its role in ensuring the rule of law. I wish to 
take  this  opportunity  to  convey  my  deep  appreciation 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  continuing 
efforts to that end.
It  is  well  known  that  there  are  divergent  views 
and  understandings  about  the  concept  of  the  rule  of 
law,  including  formalistic  and  substantive  definitions. 
Despite  such  diversity,  however,  we  are  convinced 
that the rule of law should be deeply rooted in certain 
essential elements, such as justice, morality, territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty.  Without  due  consideration 
of  those  elements,  the  rule  of  law  can  be  abused  as  a 
pretext  for  the  strong  to  impose  their  will  upon  the 
weak, which we have all too often witnessed in the past 
among States.
We  wish  to  stress  that  the  rule  of  law  applies  to 
all States equally. Respect for and the promotion of the 
rule of law and justice should be the guiding principles 
for stable international relations. As such, we recognize 
the  important  contributions  that  the  United  Nations, 
including the International Court of Justice, has made in 
promoting the rule of law. In particular, and in the light 
of the critical role that the Court plays in that area, we 
are of the view that the Court should continue to ref lect 
12-51951
11
A/67/PV.5
the  legal  diversity  of  the  international  community. 
Furthermore, we believe that no State should ever take 
advantage of international legal procedures for political 
purposes.
We have been a strong supporter of full compliance 
with  and  the  progressive  development  of  international 
law. Korea has been serving in various international legal 
bodies,  including  the  International  Law  Commission, 
the International Criminal Court and the International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  Furthermore,  we  are 
fully  committed  to  continuing  our  contributions  to 
various  rule-of-law  initiatives  for  disseminating  and 
promoting a wider appreciation of the rule of law.
Without  a  doubt,  respect  for  the  law  in  the 
international  sphere  should  also  be  reinforced  and 
complemented by a commitment to the rule of law at the 
national level. Peace, democracy, good governance and 
sustainable  development  will  not  be  possible  without 
due respect for the rule of law. The principle of legality, 
an independent judiciary, respect for human rights and 
access to justice for all are also at the very core of the 
rule of law at the national level.
economic 
My  country  has  been  able  to  achieve  material 
democracy, 
the 
enhancement  of  human  rights  in  less  than  half  a 
century. That would not have been possible without our 
resolute  commitment  and  strenuous  efforts  to  foster 
and reinforce the principle of the rule of law.
development 
and 
The  rule  of  law  has  served  as  a  check  against 
the  abuse  of  power  and  the  arbitrary  application  of 
laws.  It  has  helped  raise  awareness  of  peoples  about 
democratic  values  and  fundamental  rights.  For  Korea, 
the  rule  of  law  has  been  instrumental  in  establishing 
an  environment  in  which  entrepreneurship  can  grow 
and  f lourish.  Higher  education  and  an  efficient  public 
sector  have  also  been  key  contributing  factors  to  the 
rule of law, taking deep root within our society.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  the  objectives 
of the rule of law can be achieved only through active 
coordination and cooperation among all relevant actors, 
including  States,  international  organizations  and  civil 
society.  We  will  continue  to  support  the  efforts  of  the 
international community to enhance the rule of law at 
the national and international levels.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
now  give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oleksandr 
Lavrynovych, Minister for Justice of Ukraine.
Mr.  Lavrynovych  (Ukraine):  Ukraine  welcomes 
this  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
first  in  United  Nations  history  to  be  dedicated  to  the 
important  issue  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international levels.
Ukraine believes that respect for the rule of law at 
the international level is the basis of international peace 
and stability, a key precondition for the prevention and 
settlement of conf licts, and a guarantee of predictability 
and legitimacy in international relations.
in  addressing 
In  that  regard,  Ukraine  emphasizes  the  need  to 
enhance  the  role  and  effectiveness  of  international 
judicial  bodies 
to 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  After  all,  the 
effectiveness of such mechanisms is, in our opinion, the 
key to their increasingly widespread use by members of 
the international community and an important factor in 
strengthening the rule of law at the international level.
related 
issues 
Ukraine  is  moving  steadily  along  the  path  of 
reforms  aimed  at  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  national  level.  Furthermore,  the  rule  of  law  as  a 
principle  is  stipulated  in  the  Constitution  of  Ukraine. 
Unfortunately, Ukraine has become a frequent subject 
of  criticism  by  certain  international  organizations 
and Governments with regard to compliance with that 
principle.  However,  in  the  past  few  years  a  number  of 
steps  have  been  taken  to  establish  guarantees  of  the 
rule of law in different areas.
In that regard, I would mention public administration 
reform,  judicial  reform,  large-scale  anti-corruption 
programmes  and  comprehensive  criminal  procedure 
reform, which was a crucial challenge for the Ukrainian 
authorities for years.
The steps taken by the Ukrainian authorities aimed 
at  achieving  maximum  openness  and  transparency  in 
the  decision-making  process  are  ref lected  not  only  in 
national legislative initiatives but also in the voluntary 
international  commitments  of  our  country,  such  as 
our  participation  in  the  international  initiative  “Open 
Government Partnership”.
Today we reaffirm the determination of Ukrainian 
leaders  to  fulfil  the  commitments  made  by  Ukraine 
in  the  field  of  ensuring  effective  methods  of  public 
administration,  promoting  equal  access  to  justice  for 
all,  fighting  corruption  and  involving  civil  society  in 
the process of defining and implementing State policy.
12 
12-51951
Ukraine  deeply  appreciates  the  efforts  and  active 
participation  of  the  United  Nations  in  dealing  with 
the  wide  range  of  global  challenges  facing  us  today, 
which  range  from  climate  change,  terrorism,  human 
rights protection and the settlement of armed conf lict, 
each of which is closely linked to the issue of the rule 
of  law.  Thus,  given  the  existence  of  that  significant 
international  experience,  we  believe  that  the  United 
Nations  should  remain  the  centre  of  international 
efforts to strengthen the rule of law.
We  believe  that  in  future  one  of  the  priority 
tasks  in  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  should  be  to 
increase the effectiveness of international judicial and 
quasi-judicial  institutions.  It  is  crucially  important 
to  give  new  impetus  to  the  process  of  global  nuclear 
disarmament  and  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime.  To  that  end,  one  of  the  key 
elements  of  such  a  regime  should  be  to  ensure  legal 
security  guarantees  for  States  that  have  renounced 
nuclear weapons.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Bin  Fahad 
Al-Hajri, Minister of State for Political Affairs of Qatar.
Mr.  Al-Hajri  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
legitimacy  of  a  law-abiding  State  is  built  upon  the 
rule of law. It is clear that the broader meaning of the 
rule of law extends beyond mere respect for law to the 
substance  of  the  law  itself. With  regard  to  the  need  to 
protect  human  rights,  therefore,  national  legislatures 
must not breach those fundamental rights recognized as 
necessary for the establishment of a law-abiding State 
with democratic institutions.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  supremacy  of  the  law 
over  the  State  is  linked  to  respect  for  the  rights 
and  freedoms  of  citizens.  In  that  regard,  the  Qatari 
Constitution confirms and guarantees many rules that 
compel executive authorities to ensure the protection of 
various rights and freedoms, in order that no individual 
authority  might  encroach  upon  or  interfere  with  the 
public  domain  of  guaranteed  fundamental  human 
rights.
the  national  and 
The  situation  at  both 
the 
international levels should not differ. Relations among 
States  should  be  subjected,  as  a  matter  of  equity,  to 
the  rule  of  law.  The  political  discourse  of  States  must 
coincide  with  the  provisions  of  international  law  and 
all of its guarantees of the human rights and freedoms 
of peoples.
A/67/PV.5
If  the  rule  of  law  breaks  down  or  becomes 
inequitable,  the  balance  of  international  peace  and 
security  among  the  international  community  will  be 
disrupted.  It  is  therefore  pointless  to  seek  to  promote 
the  rule  of  law  only  at  the  national  level  or  at  the 
international  level.  Rather,  it  should  be  strengthened 
and promoted at all levels.
Today,  we  must  seek  to  restore  confidence  in  the 
rule of law, especially at the international level. It is not 
easy  to  stress  the  rule  of  law  from  the  perspective  of 
an  international  community  that  is  ruled  by  force  and 
conf licting interests. Indeed, events and practices that 
undermine such confidence are numerous.
Revisiting  the  achievements  we  have  made  since 
the  mid-twentieth  century  towards  establishing  an 
international  order  based  on  laws  and  the  principles 
of 
legitimacy  and  historical  global 
instruments,  not  least  of  which  is  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  will  restore  confidence  in  the  rule  of 
law.
international 
Debating  the  rule  of  law  issue  is  not  intended 
merely  to  uphold  such  a  regime  symbolically,  but  to 
realize that the rule of law is crucial for achieving all of 
our collective goals. Those who seek peace and security 
should  abide  by  the  conditions  for  peace  and  security, 
foremost among which is the rule of law.
Those  who  seek  to  achieve  development  should 
understand  that  ensuring  the  rule  of  law  is  one  of  its 
components.  Those  who  strive  to  guarantee  human 
rights  must  also  establish  the  rule  of  law.  While  the 
rule of law is a prerequisite to the achievement of many 
goals, achieving the rule of law requires many elements 
and a principled foundation.
Given that conviction, the State of Qatar has taken 
action at various levels and in various sectors aimed at 
achieving good governance, by promoting the principle 
of the rule of law as a tool in organizing the economic, 
political and social lives of its citizens. Hence, the rule 
of law has become an essential element in our national 
strategy.  We  always  strive  to  uphold  the  law,  equality 
before the law, accountability under the law and justice 
in the application of the law.
In  order  to  uphold  the  law  under  the  wise 
leadership of His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  a  commission 
on  administrative  control  and 
transparency  was 
established,  fully  empowered  and  provided  with  all 
necessary  resources  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  In  addition, 
12-51951
13
A/67/PV.5
the third Conference of the States Parties to the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  was  hosted  in 
Doha, and a rule of law and anti-corruption centre has 
been opened in that city.
The  State  of  Qatar  continues  to  develop  its  laws 
and  regulations,  to  join  international  conventions 
and  to  promote  a  culture  of  respect  for  national  and 
international  law,  through  seminars,  workshops  and 
other means.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Richard  Marles, 
Parliamentary  Secretary  for  Pacific  Island  Affairs  of 
Australia.
Mr.  Marles  (Australia):  The  rule  of  law  is  the 
highest and best guarantee of the freedom and dignity 
of  all  people.  It  protects  people  from  the  arbitrary 
use  of  power  and  gives  victims  access  to  justice.  It 
provides  the  transparency  necessary  for  business  and 
the protection of property. It ensures that disputes can 
be resolved fairly and peacefully.
Sustainable  peace  especially  needs  trusted  and 
credible  institutions,  processes  and  Governments.  In 
turn, development and long-term peacebuilding require 
confidence  in  the  rule  of  law.  Only  then  can  human 
liberty f lourish.
Australia understands that today, just as we did in 
1948 when our then Foreign Minister, Mr. H. V. Evatt, 
presided  over  the  General  Assembly  as  it  adopted  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
In  Australia,  our  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law 
underpins  our  social  stability  and  our  prosperity.  We 
value those concepts so deeply that our whole national 
ethos  is  based  upon  a  universal  ideal  of  equality  and 
opportunity,  which  in  the  Australian  vernacular  is 
known simply as “a fair go”.
Sadly, as an international community we too often 
see  the  terrible  price  paid  by  ordinary  people  when 
the  rule  of  law  breaks  down.  We  see  people  made 
vulnerable to disadvantage and discrimination. We see 
communities  that  do  not  trust  their  police,  courts  or, 
indeed,  their  leaders.  And  we  see  development  held 
back owing to conf lict and insecurity.
Over  many  years,  Australia  has  worked 
to 
strengthen the rule of law in conf lict-affected societies. 
Since we joined the first peacekeepers in 1947, 65,000 
Australians have served on more than 50 United Nations 
and multilateral peace and security operations.
Through successful work in Australia’s own region, 
we have sought to assist our neighbours in Papua New 
Guinea,  Solomon  Islands  and  Timor-Leste  to  build 
their own lasting and enforceable rule of law cultures. 
As  chair-in-office  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Nations, 
an  organization  comprised  of  fully  one  third  of  all  of 
the  world’s  peoples,  Australia  recognizes  the  strong 
commitment of all of the nations of the Commonwealth 
to the rule of law as a core value.
The  rule  of  law  is  inextricably  linked  to  the  three 
pillars of the United Nations — security, development 
and human rights, which are the high ideals that guide 
our  efforts  to  achieve  practical  progress.  Delivering 
training  for  courts,  correctional  services,  police  and 
other  justice  agencies;  assisting  with  legal,  judicial 
and constitutional reforms; and ensuring free and easy 
access  of  civilian  populations  to  legal  information  to 
help  secure  their  rights  —  none  of  that  can  be  taken 
for granted. It requires sustained commitment and the 
sharing of hard-won lessons.
Australia  is  pleased  to  be  able  to  do  all  of  that 
through  the  United  Nations  and  its  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  including  as  part  of  the  Burundi,  Sierra 
Leone and Liberia country-specific configurations.
Support  for  the  rule  of  law  is  also  a  central  part 
of  Australia’s  development  assistance  programme. 
We  have  dedicated  more  than  $300  million  this  year 
to  helping  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  in  developing 
countries,  and  by  2016  we  will  have  trained  14,000 
law  and  justice  officials.  Australia  recognizes  that 
the rule of law is itself a vital condition for extending 
freedom,  expanding  development,  preventing  conf lict 
and building peace. When all those efforts fail — and, 
in the worst cases, when atrocities are committed — the 
rule of law ensures that impunity does not prevail.
Let us therefore ensure that the work of this High-
level  Meeting  leads  to  practical  progress  towards 
the  highest  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  for  security, 
development and human rights for all the peoples of the 
world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Archbishop Dominique 
Mamberti,  Secretary  for  Relations  with  States  of  the 
Observer State of the Holy See.
Archbishop Mamberti (Holy See): I would like to 
begin by expressing our appreciation for the references 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/66/749)  and  in 
the Declaration adopted this morning (resolution 67/1) 
14 
12-51951
to  the  unbreakable  link  between  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect for human rights.
The  Holy  See  wishes  above  all  to  underline  the 
need  to  go  beyond  the  simple  fixation  on  procedures 
that guarantee a democratic basis for standards, to one 
that  seeks  to  promote  true  justice.  On  its  own,  formal 
respect  is  not  sufficient  to  guarantee  the  national  and 
international rule of law, especially when, through the 
proliferation of norms and procedures, the certainty of 
law itself may be placed in jeopardy. Juridical disorder, 
on  the  one  hand,  and  anthropological  jurisdiction,  on 
the  other,  compromise  the  ultimate  and  essential  goal 
of all law: to promote and guarantee the dignity of the 
person.
In order not to be reduced to a sterile tautology, to a 
mere rule of the rules, as Pope Benedict XVI said in his 
speech to the Bundestag just a year ago, the rule of law 
must be based on a unified and comprehensive vision of 
man, appreciative of the richness of how people relate 
to  one  another  and  granting  certainty  and  stability  to 
juridical  relationships.  Moreover,  the  concept  of  law 
should  be  understood  as  justice  —  that  which  is  just, 
that which is a just thing, an element that belongs to and 
is  inalienable  from  the  nature  of  every  human  being, 
family and State.
The achievements and declarations of human rights 
offer us important points of reference in that direction, 
but they are not in themselves sufficient unless they are 
read in the spirit in which they were formulated. Indeed, 
such  declarations  are  the  result  of  a  lengthy  juridical 
and  political  process,  which  began  with  the  encounter 
between the theoretical and philosophical reasoning of 
Greek culture and the juridical and practical reasoning 
of  the  Romans,  to  which  were  added  other  elements, 
such  as  Judeo-Christian  wisdom,  the  laws  of  other 
European peoples, canon law and its developments, the 
medieval  and  Renaissance  work  of  Jewish,  Arab  and 
Christian  philosophers,  and,  lastly,  the  contribution 
of  the  thinking  of  the  Enlightenment  and  the  political 
developments  due  to  the  revolutions  of  the  eighteenth 
century. It is only in the light of this complex, rich and 
intricate  edifice,  which  is  simultaneously  historical, 
juridical  and  philosophical,  that  the  inviolable  and 
inalienable  rights  of  human  beings  can  and  must  be 
appreciated as the essence of the law, and to which the 
rules must refer.
The  United  Nations  Charter  underlines  the  need 
to  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights.  The 
world of faith usually indicates the transcendent, which 
A/67/PV.5
may,  however,  be  grasped  by  philosophical  reasoning, 
a process whereby we ask ourselves about the meaning 
of  human  existence  and  the  universe,  and  about  what 
offers  a  true  and  solid  basis  for  the  rule  of  law.  Faith 
in  the  transcendental  dignity  of  the  human  person 
does  become  the  fundamental  and  indispensable  key 
for  understanding  the  rights  codified  in  the  founding 
documents  of  the  United  Nations.  It  offers  a  secure 
basis for the rule of law, because it corresponds to the 
truth about man as a creature of God’s making, and it 
allows  the  rule  of  law  to  pursue  its  true  purpose:  the 
promotion of the common good.
These conclusions lead to the unavoidable premise 
that  the  right  to  life  of  every  human  being,  from 
conception  to  natural  death,  should  be  considered 
and protected as an absolute and inalienable value. To 
that right should be added all the other components of 
human  rights,  without  distinction,  as  envisioned  by 
the  principles  of  indivisibility  and  universality,  thus 
making it possible to say that the integral promotion of 
all people, without any exception as to time or place, is 
a  true  guarantee  of  full  respect  for  everyone.  Among 
those  rights,  freedom  of  religion  merits  a  particular 
mention,  as  the  right  to  seek  the  truth  in  matters 
religious  without  coercion  and  in  full  freedom  of 
conscience. The guarantee of such freedom, apart from 
its  actual  views,  is  an  inalienable  hinge  of  the  rule  of 
law for believer and non-believer alike.
This  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  is 
an  important  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  will  to  find 
political  solutions,  applicable  at  the  global  level,  with 
the aid of a juridical order solidly based on the dignity 
and nature of humanity. That is the best path to follow if 
we wish to realize the grand designs and purpose of the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I should 
now like to consult members with a view to giving the 
f loor  to  the  Chair  of  the  United  Nations  Commission 
on International Trade Law, Mr. Hrvoje Sikirić. If there 
is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the 
General Assembly, and without setting a precedent, to 
invite the Chair of the United Nations Commission on 
International  Trade  Law  to  make  a  statement  at  this 
meeting?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with the decision just taken, I now give the 
12-51951
15
A/67/PV.5
f loor to the Chair of the United Nations Commission on 
International Trade Law.
Mr.  Sikirić  (United  Nations  Commission  on 
International  Trade  Law):  I  thank  the  Assembly  for 
giving the United Nations Commission on International 
Trade  Law  (UNCITRAL)  the  opportunity  to  address 
this  meeting.  At  its  forty-fifth  annual  session  this 
summer, UNCITRAL instructed me to transmit to this 
audience the following message.
First,  as  the  core  United  Nations  entity  in  the 
field of commercial law, UNCITRAL views this event 
as  providing  a  unique  opportunity  to  promote  the 
consideration  of  the  rule  of  law  from  a  perspective 
not  commonly  associated  with  it,  that  is,  from  a 
commercial and trade point of view. For UNCITRAL, 
its work on modernizing and harmonizing international 
commercial  and  trade  law  is  key  to  the  conduct  of 
commercial  activity  on  the  basis  of  transparent  and 
predictable rules that will assist economic development 
by encouraging trade and investment. In UNCITRAL’s 
view, the rule of law is not only about issues of public 
international  law,  human  rights,  criminal  law  and 
transitional  justice,  which  are  clearly  important.  The 
rule of law is also about the capacity of States to mobilize 
resources  to  invest  in  such  rule-of-law  fundamentals 
as  due  process  and  judicial  and  legal  infrastructure, 
including  well-trained  lawyers  and  judges.  It  is  about 
the recognition and enforcement of property rights and 
contracts.  It  is  also,  of  course,  about  guaranteeing  the 
legal  security  required  to  promote  entrepreneurship, 
investment  and  job  creation.  That  is  exactly  what  the 
work of UNCITRAL seeks to achieve.
Secondly, the Commission was unanimous that any 
outcome document from today’s meeting should refer to 
the work of UNCITRAL and recognize its contribution 
to  promoting  the  rule  of  law  in  the  economic  field  as 
an  essential  element  of  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of 
law  in  the  broader  context.  Such  a  desired  outcome  is 
consistent  with  the  General  Assembly’s  recognition 
of  the  multifaceted  impact  of  UNCITRAL’s  work  on 
development, peace, stability and the well-being of all 
peoples — and, consequently, on the promotion of the 
rule of law in the broader context.
The  premise  is  that  the  rule  of  law  and  economic 
development are mutually reinforcing. The promotion of 
the rule of law in commercial relations must become, as 
the General Assembly has acknowledged on numerous 
occasions,  an  integral  part  of  the  broader  agenda  of 
the  United  Nations  to  promote  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
national and international levels. Advancing the rule of 
law  must  be  an  inclusive  and  comprehensive  process 
that avoids focusing on only some areas of legal reform 
to the detriment of others that might be less visible or 
require specialized technical expertise.
Thirdly,  recognizing  that  business  practices  are 
constantly  evolving  in  a  rapidly  changing  world, 
States  must  develop  the  capacity  to  modernize  their 
commercial  laws  in  response  to  those  practices,  and 
also  establish  legal  environments  that  support  and 
enable  trade  and  commerce.  Legislative  reforms  must 
be accompanied by appropriate institutional reforms to 
ensure  the  effective  implementation  and  enforcement 
of laws.
shows 
Unfortunately,  experience 
that,  amid 
pressures  to  address  other  priorities,  local  needs  for 
commercial  law  reform  are  often  overlooked  and 
resources are often allocated to other areas. Those local 
deficiencies  are  aggravated  by  unfilled  capacity  gaps 
in United Nations field operations. As reports of those 
operations  suggest,  the  challenges  posed  by  the  need 
for  economic  revitalization,  employment  generation 
and private sector development are often not adequately 
met.
UNCITRAL  can  rely  on  20  years  of  experience 
in  implementing  technical  assistance  and  capacity-
building  programmes.  Nevertheless,  it  cannot  hope 
to  address  the  constantly  increasing  challenges  alone 
with the limited resources at its disposal. Achieving the 
effective  deployment  of  UNCITRAL’s  modern  trade 
law  standards  and  technical  expertise  where  they  are 
most  needed  requires  the  long-term  involvement  not 
only  of  UNCITRAL  but  also  of  States  and  the  United 
Nations  system  as  a  whole,  together  with  external 
assistance providers.
UNCITRAL hopes that today’s High-level Meeting 
will  become  the  pivotal  point  in  achieving  increased 
recognition  by  the  international  community  of  the 
essential role that effective commercial law frameworks 
can  play  in  advancing  the  rule  of  law.  At  stake  is  the 
capacity of States to continue engaging in commercial 
law reform, not only at the country level but also through 
participation  in  regional  and  international  bodies, 
thereby strengthening rule of law in the economic field.
The United Nations has the huge potential, through 
UNCITRAL  and  other  entities,  to  respond  to  the 
needs  of  States  by  building  or  enhancing  capacity  to 
promote  the  rule  of  law  in  a  comprehensive  manner. 
16 
12-51951
The goal is to ensure that rule-of-law activities include 
the  modernization  of  commercial  law  and  developing 
capacities  to  engage  States  that  most  need  it  in  that 
modernization.  The  question  is  whether  the  United 
Nations  as  a  whole  will  design  and  conduct  its  future 
rule-of-law  activities  in  a  sufficiently  comprehensive 
manner. We at UNCITRAL truly hope that it will. We 
remain at the service of the international community to 
assist in overcoming that challenge.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now give 
the  f loor  to  the  Director-General  of  the  International 
Development Law Organization.
Ms.  Khan
the  Director-General  of 
(International  Development  Law 
Organization):  As 
the 
International  Development  Law  Organization  (IDLO), 
which  is  the  only  intergovernmental  organization 
exclusively devoted to advancing the rule of law, I am 
deeply  honoured  to  have  the  opportunity  to  address 
today’s  High-level  Meeting.  I  am  also  grateful  for  the 
chance given to IDLO to contribute to the substantive 
preparations for the Meeting and its outcome (resolution 
67/1).
IDLO believes that the Declaration of the High-level 
Meeting opens a path for further ref lection and action 
by the international community on the centrality of the 
rule  of  law  in  addressing  the  many  complex  political, 
social,  economic  and  environmental  challenges  of  our 
times.  The  renewed  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law 
through  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration  and  today’s 
High-level Meeting is both significant and timely.
There is a global crisis of the rule of law, ref lected 
in a dangerous deficit of public trust in institutions and 
a  deep  disconnect  between  the  formal  mechanisms  of 
the rule of law and people’s lived experience of justice 
and  equity.  Restoring  people’s  confidence  in  justice 
systems is an enormous challenge confronting national 
Governments and the international community today.
Transforming institutions is a long-term endeavour, 
while the international community’s attention span tends 
to be short-term. Many developing countries appreciate 
the  need  to  build  effective  legal  systems.  However, 
change is hard because of resource constraints, lack of 
capacity and vested interests.
The  level  of  aid  is  nowhere  near  the  level  of 
demand.  If  there  is  to  be  real  progress  towards  the 
goals  embodied  in  the  Declaration,  then  international 
assistance  for  the  rule  of  law  must  be  significantly 
expanded. Institutions of law and justice must be made 
A/67/PV.5
to  work  for  people.  In  supporting  national  ownership, 
IDLO  would  like  to  underline  the  importance  of 
engaging not only authorities but also civil society, and 
of  empowering  local  communities.  The  focus  must  be 
on the end users of justice.
IDLO’s experience shows that the best results come 
about when legal and institutional reforms are tailored 
to  meet  local  needs  and,  at  the  same  time,  are  firmly 
anchored  in  international  standards  and  values.  The 
values  and  norms  of  the  rule  of  law  are  universal  and 
must be universally respected; but fairness, impartiality, 
transparency,  integrity  and  accountability  can  be 
interpreted in different ways by different legal cultures. 
Acknowledging the plurality of legal systems, as indeed 
the Declaration does, is key to local ownership.
IDLO  appreciates  the  Declaration’s  recognition 
of  informal  justice  systems.  They  are  often  the 
only  means  by  which  many  women  and  poor  and 
marginalized  communities  can  gain  access  to  justice. 
Reform initiatives must therefore tackle the inequitable 
practices  inherent  in  informal  systems,  but  they  must 
do so in ways that do not undermine local ownership.
IDLO welcomes the emphasis that the Declaration 
places  on  gender  equality  and  women’s  access  to 
justice. But legal reform alone will not produce justice 
for women. Policy initiatives and, even more important, 
political will, are needed to fight social discrimination 
and cultural prejudice and to promote the economic and 
political empowerment of women. For our part, we have 
pledged  to  enhance  the  role  of  women  in  the  justice 
sector  and  to  support  women  in  overcoming  the  legal 
barriers  they  face  in  accessing  justice  and  realizing 
their human rights.
Finally, as the post-2015 international agenda begins 
to  take  shape,  IDLO  believes  that  the  international 
community  has  a  unique  opportunity  to  strengthen 
sustainable  development  strategies  by  supporting  rule 
of  law  frameworks  and  rights-based  approaches.  The 
Declaration provides the opening for that.
The challenge to which we must all rise is to create 
a  culture  of  justice.  That  entails  three  interrelated 
components:  well-functioning  and  responsive  legal 
institutions based on well-recognized principles of the 
rule of law; citizens who are empowered and aware of 
their rights; and a legal system that enables development 
outcomes  to  be  fair  and  sustainable.  For  our  part,  we 
pledge  to  support  efforts  to  improve  the  quality  and 
integrity  of  legal  and  judicial  institutions;  to  support 
12-51951
17
A/67/PV.5
Governments  that  uphold  human  rights  and  empower 
people  to  claim  them;  and  to  facilitate  legal  solutions 
that  promote  sustainable  development  and  economic 
opportunity.
arbitrariness: laws must be public, they must have been 
properly  enacted  by  a  competent  authority,  they  must 
not  be  retroactive,  and  it  must  be  possible  to  comply 
with them. We could call that rule by law.
We  look  forward  to  exploring  innovative  and 
diverse  partnerships  with  the  United  Nations  system 
and  other  stakeholders  and  to  bringing  our  advocacy 
and  our  convening  capacity  to  supporting  the  United 
Nations  in  following  up  the  Declaration  in  order  to 
build consensus on the intrinsic and instrumental value 
of the rule of law.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of the International 
Crisis Group.
Ms.  Arbour 
(International  Crisis  Group): 
“Between  the  rich  and  the  poor,  between  the  master 
and  the  servant,  between  the  strong  and  the  weak,  it 
is  freedom  that  oppresses  and  the  law  that  sets  free”. 
So  said  Henri-Dominique  de  Lacordaire,  a  French 
ecclesiastic,  preacher,  journalist  and  political  activist 
who  re-established  the  Dominican  Order  in  post-
revolutionary France in 1848. And he was right.
The  purpose  of  the  law  in  a  free  and  democratic 
society  is  to  liberate,  not  to  restrain.  It  is  to  create  a 
safe  and  just  environment  in  which  human  conduct  is 
regulated  and  power  is  constrained,  so  that  maximum 
freedom and safety is attained by all.
In  our  eagerness  to  promote  the  rule  of  law,  we 
often  confuse  three  competing  visions  of  it.  One  is 
institutional, one is procedural, and one is substantive.
The  institutional  rule  of  law  is  the  most  familiar; 
it  is  concerned  mostly  with  law  enforcement  and  it  is 
ref lected,  for  example,  in  the  way  the  rule  of  law  is 
currently  housed  in  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations  as  the  Office  of  Rule  of  Law  and  Security 
Institutions.  It  has  under  it  a  police  division,  a  mine 
action  service,  a  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration  section  and  a  criminal  law  and  judicial 
advisory  division.  It  is  functionally  interested  in  law 
and order and is heavily reliant on ideas of security and 
security institutions. In fact, we should call it law and 
order, rather than rule of law.
The  second  understanding  of  the  rule  of  law  is 
procedural.  It  ref lects  a  formal  understanding  of  the 
concept  and  emphasizes  the  preference  for  rules  over 
human  arbitrariness.  The  rules  themselves  are  subject 
to  formal  requirements  designed  to  further  restrict 
Under  the  rule  by  law  concept,  the  content  of 
the  law  does  not  really  matter  so  long  as  the  formal 
requirements  are  met.  So  as  to  prevent  arbitrariness, 
it  also  requires  that  laws  be  properly  enforced  in  a 
non-discriminatory manner, which includes, of course, 
the  acclaimed  principle  that  no  one  is  above  the  law. 
Like the idea of law and order, rule by law has a certain 
attraction. It conveys a sense of fairness and protection 
from  the  capricious  exercise  of  power,  but  it  still  falls 
short of what the modern understanding of the rule of 
law should offer.
The  real  rule  of  law  is  substantive,  and  it 
encompasses  many  human  rights  requirements.  It 
ref lects the idea of equality in a substantive way — not 
just  that  no  one  is  above  the  law,  but  that  everyone  is 
equal before and under the law and is entitled to its equal 
protection  and  equal  benefit.  Only  that  understanding 
of  the  rule  of  law  would  prevent  a  law  being  enacted 
to  regulate  the  use  of  torture,  for  example.  Under  the 
substantive understanding of the rule of law, that would 
be impossible, no matter how well promulgated the law 
was, nor how equitably it was enforced.
Properly  understood  in  that  fashion,  the  rule  of 
law  would  also  prohibit  the  enactment  of  a  law  that 
would deprive women of the right to vote or otherwise 
offend  fundamental  human  rights  guarantees.  Under 
that substantive understanding of the rule of law, rules 
serve a higher purpose than the mere orderly regulation 
of  human  conduct.  Laws  must  also  enhance  liberty, 
security  and  equality  and  strive  to  attain  a  perfect 
coincidence  between  law  and  justice.  That  is  a  tall 
agenda at the national and the international levels, but 
it is one that the rule of law commands. It requires that 
laws be just and justly enforced.
The  enforcement  of  the  rule  by  law  and  law  and 
order  models,  rather  than  the  real  substantive  rule  of 
law, does not merely fall short of its objective. It runs 
the risk of subverting its purpose entirely.
The  robust  enforcement  of  laws  that  violate 
fundamental human rights can entrench authoritarians 
and,  worse  still,  give  them  the  additional  veneer  of 
respectability associated with respect for the rule of law. 
There can be no worse perversion of a legal and political 
18 
12-51951
A/67/PV.5
concept  that  holds  so  much  for  the  advancement  of 
individual freedom and of proper collective governance.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of the International 
Institute of Higher Studies in Criminal Science.
Mr.  Bassiouni  (International  Institute  of  Higher 
Studies  in  Criminal  Science):  It  is  our  privilege  to 
represent international civil society in expressing support 
for  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  the  various 
agencies  and  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  as 
well as the many governmental, intergovernmental and 
non-governmental  organizations  that  have  supported 
the  rule  of  law  both  in  its  broadest  sense,  which 
encompasses the higher values of law and justice, and in 
its implementation at the legal and administrative levels. 
The rule of law in its broadest sense encompasses many 
of  the  functions  that  international,  intergovernmental, 
governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations 
engage  in.  The  rule  of  law  is  also  about  providing 
support for an effective legal, administrative and social 
infrastructure, whose ultimate purpose is to ensure the 
protection  of  the  higher  values  of  life,  liberty,  human 
dignity, equality and justice. That approach to the rule 
of  law  is  indispensable  to  sustaining  democracy  and 
freedom.
Historically, the rule of law has been interpreted as 
addressing laws and legal institutions, specifically law 
enforcement,  prosecution,  the  judiciary,  correctional 
services  and  administrative  legal  services.  But  it  also 
encompasses  the  prevention  of  wrongs  and  providing 
remedies for victims, as ref lected in the Basic Principles 
and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparation 
for Victims of Gross Violations of International Human 
Rights  Law  and  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law.  In  that  respect,  it  also  means 
ensuring accountability and putting an end to impunity.
The  time  has  come  to  focus  on  the  rule  of  law  as 
a  capacity-building  mechanism  within  the  United 
Nations in order to increase the effectiveness of the rule 
of law, rather than to expand its scope to include every 
value  and  goal  of  international  and  national  societies. 
In order for that initiative to be successful, the United 
Nations must avoid the generalities and vagueness that 
seem  to  pervade  the  present  trend  in  the  rule  of  law. 
Instead,  United  Nations  agencies  and  bodies  need  to 
embrace specificity in their rule of law programmes.
Nothwithstanding  the  interests  of  United  Nations 
agencies and bodies engaged in rule of law programmes, 
it is important not to compromise or diffuse the broad 
operational  designs  of  the  new  initiative  by  assigning 
different  aspects  to  difference  agencies  and  bodies 
in  order  to  accumulate  bureaucratic  interests.  The 
diffusion  of  rule  of  law  activities  between  different 
United  Nations  bodies  and  agencies  is  likely  to 
present  the  challenge  to  the  effective  implementation 
and  execution  of  those  programmes.  There  is  already 
some  diffusion  of  the  administration  of  rule-of-law 
programmes within the United Nations system, and that 
has produced a limitation on its effectiveness. Further 
diffusion of those important initiatives is going to be a 
further challenge.
It is therefore recommended that a special counsel 
or  committee  within  the  Office  of  the  Secretary-
General be established to coordinate the programmes of 
all United Nations agencies and bodies involved in the 
funding  and  administration  of  rule-of-law  initiatives. 
The  counsel  or  committee  should  represent  all  United 
Nations  agencies  and  bodies  working  on  rule-of-
law  issues,  with  a  special  focus  on  developing  and 
applying  best  policies  and  practices  across  the  United 
Nations system, as well as promoting cooperation and 
synergy,  where  appropriate,  with  intergovernmental 
and  non-governmental  organizations.  In  addition,  the 
counsel or committee should establish systems, such as 
database systems of national and international experts 
as well as experienced professional and administrative 
personnel,  to  be  used  by  United  Nations  agencies  and 
bodies working on rule of law initiatives. The counsel 
or  committee  should  also  include  representatives  of 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations 
in order to make use of their experiences and resources, 
as well as to enhance cooperation and synergies, where 
appropriate,  between 
those  other 
agencies.
themselves  and 
The  ultimate  purpose  should  not  be  to  enhance 
international  participation  in  the  rule  of  law,  but 
rather  to  support  the  development  of  national  rule  of 
law  programmes  as  well  as  to  enhance  the  efforts  of 
donor States, intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations, especially by sharing best practices and 
promoting cooperation and synergies.
With  regard  to  fact-finding  missions  and  special 
procedures,  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights, in cooperation with the Human Rights 
Council,  should  undertake  the  necessary  steps  to 
identify best policy and practices and to apply them, as 
well  as  to  ensure  greater  uniformity  in  the  operations 
12-51951
19
A/67/PV.5
of  fact-finding  missions  and  special  procedures.  That 
includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  developing  a  common 
standardized  database  system,  which  would  make  the 
work  of  fact-finding  missions  and  special  procedures 
more  uniform  and  more  streamlined.  Those  steps 
should  also  develop  greater  synergies  between  bodies 
dealing with the same subject.
It is self-evident that the rule of law is foundational 
to democracy, human rights and justice. The term “rule 
of law” ref lects values which in turn are embodied in the 
modalities that are needed to convert these values into 
actualization.  Admittedly,  the  rule  of  law  has  reached 
a high level of recognition in international and national 
discourse,  as  was  evident  in  the  77  statements  heard 
today  and  made  by  many  heads  of  State  and  Cabinet 
officers. But the question remains, with regard to civil 
society and the world’s masses, particularly those in the 
bottom 2 billion of the world who are struggling for their 
daily  survival —  if  the  torrent  of  support  heard  today 
could only be translated into reality, the peoples of the 
world  would  not  suffer  the  many  injustices  they  still 
suffer from, which include not only hunger, disease and 
ignorance, but impunity for those who have committed, 
and who continue to commit, such crimes as genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes,  torture,  rape, 
abuse of children in so many ways, human trafficking 
and many other forms of criminal conduct.
The  rule  of  law  has  reached  its  highest  rhetorical 
level.  The  time  has  come  for  us  to  translate  that 
rhetorical  commitment  into  reality  and  action  at  the 
international and national levels.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker for the High-level Meeting.
I now declare closed the High-level Meeting of the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
and International Levels.
The meeting rose at 8.20 p.m.
20 
12-51951
