United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
21st plenary meeting
Monday, 1 October 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.21
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Dessima  Williams,  Chair  of  the 
delegation of Grenada.
Ms. Williams (Grenada): I am honoured to address 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  on 
behalf  of  Mr.  Tillman  J.  Thomas,  Prime  Minister  of 
Grenada, and the people of Grenada.
Grenada commends the work of the United Nations 
over  the  past  year,  with  special  commendation  for  the 
leadership  and  stewardship  of  the  outgoing  President, 
Qatari  diplomat  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser. 
Looking  ahead,  we  place  our  confidence  in  you,  Sir, 
and  your  team,  and  look  forward  to  your  guidance  of 
the  work  this  year  under  the  general  theme  “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or situations by peaceful means”. We extend Grenada’s 
full esteem and support to our able Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  whom  we  thank  for  his  continued 
leadership and service to Member States.
Grenada recommits unwaveringly to the principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  embodied  in  the  Charter. 
Our  commitment  in  national  and  international  life 
to  the  norms  of  peace,  equality  and  justice,  and  to 
human  rights  and  multilateralism,  is  clear.  Over  the 
past  year,  Grenada  ratified  and  deposited  instruments 
of  ratification  with  the  United  Nations,  including  for 
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 
In  ratifying  the  Rome  Statute,  Grenada  became  the 
Member State that brought that Treaty into force. That 
exemplifies  our  commitment  to  the  principle  of  the 
rule of law, which resonates with every Grenadian as 
a  result  of  our  enthusiasm  for  justice  and  for  ending 
impunity.  Grenada  welcomes  the  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(resolution 67/1) of 24 September, and expects to make 
a voluntary pledge.
On the domestic front, in April Parliament passed 
the  End  Violence  against  Women  Legislative  and 
Policy  Reform  Bill.  Aware  that  by  itself  the  passage 
of a law is insufficient to change society’s entrenched 
cultural attitudes and practices, we are also embarking 
on public education and on strengthening the capacity 
of  Government  departments,  among  other  things. 
We  will  continue  on  that  path  to  secure  the  rights  of 
people, for we are convinced that law and security are 
the  sine  qua  non  for  the  facilitation  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  which  is  itself  the  foundation 
for  an  international  environment  of  peace.  Indeed, 
democracy, good governance, social inclusion, conf lict 
resolution, development and sustained overall progress 
are  all  helped  by  the  rule  of  law  within  our  countries 
and in the international system.
Grenada is a small island developing State. Nature 
has  been  especially  generous  to  us,  and  our  people 
are extraordinarily hard-working and big-spirited. Yet 
the  fruits  of  nature  and  of  our  own  efforts  have  been 
undermined  by  Hurricane  Ivan  in  2004,  Hurricane 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52569 (E)
*1252569*
A/67/PV.21
Emily  in  2005  and  the  advent  in  2008  of  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  That  notwithstanding, 
we  remain  confident  that  a  pathway  to  success  exists 
for us, based on our own efforts and the support of the 
international community and this great Organization.
to  sustainable  development; 
From  Grenada’s  perspective,  the  highlight  of  the 
past  year  has  been  the  renewed  international  political 
commitment 
indeed, 
interest  continues  to  grow  and  to  gain  momentum. 
Sustainable development is one of our declared priorities 
in Grenada. It is a priority this year since the Secretary-
General announced that sustainable development would 
be the number one item on his agenda during his second 
term, and you, too, Sir, declared it a priority.
In  June,  more  than  120  heads  of  State  and 
Government  endorsed  the  paradigm  of  sustainable 
development  in  Rio,  and  the  outcome  document, 
entitled “The future we want”, declares: “We resolve to 
take urgent action to achieve sustainable development” 
(resolution 66/288, annex, para. 12). Leaders agreed to 
articulate policies and programmes that would promote 
socially  inclusive  behaviour  to  quickly  and  equitably 
bring  about  prosperity  and  to  do  so  in  a  manner  that 
would  instil  hope  and  create  livelihood  opportunities 
for those yet to come.
the  fact 
Because  of  our 
that  our  people 
tremendous  green  and  blue 
endowments  and 
live 
intelligently  with  them,  Grenada  has  long  considered 
itself  an  island  of  sustainability.  That  describes  a 
holistic policy framework that defines our consumption 
and  production  path  as  spelt  out  in  our  five  strategic 
development  pillars:  energy  development;  education, 
health  and  wellness;  information  and  communications 
technology; tourism and hospitality; and agribusiness.
then, 
Grenada 
is  committed, 
to  a  path  of 
sustainability.  Its  determined  efforts  are  led  by  our 
energy  policy  aimed  at  reducing  fossil-fuel  usage  by 
20  per  cent  by  the  year  2020  and  at  being  completely 
carbon-neutral  by  2030.  The  manufacturing  sector  is 
rapidly emerging as a producer of indigenous green and 
organic products, and the hotel sector is going green.
It should be recalled that Grenada is building itself 
back from the World Bank-determined loss of 204 per 
cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product  as  a  result  of  the 
hurricane destruction we experienced in 2004 and 2005. 
We  have  made  great  strides  with  recovery  due  to  the 
generosity  of  our  neighbours  and  friends  everywhere, 
for which we remain forever indebted and grateful.
Since  2008,  our  situation  has  been  compounded 
by  the  weight  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
downturn,  which  is  dwarfing  development  efforts 
due  to  loss  of  tourism  and  port  receipts  and  even 
of  remittances.  However,  we  recognize  with  deep 
appreciation that, as our economy has slowed in direct 
response to the global economic crisis, our neighbours 
are again coming to our assistance.
Grenada  is  defined  as  a  middle-income  country, 
and  yet  its  stability  and  growth  are  challenged  by 
serious  socioeconomic  predicaments.  We  are  facing 
the  high  cost  of  fuel  and  food,  costs  associated  with 
confronting  the  illicit  trafficking  in  drugs  and  small 
arms  and  light  weapons  and  related  crime,  and  an 
increase in unemployment and poverty.
What  is  consistent  in  that  context  is  that,  like  so 
many  of  the  Caribbean  and  small  island  developing 
countries,  Grenada  contributes  least  to  the  financial 
and  economic  crisis,  greenhouse-gas  emissions  and 
the production of arms and illicit drugs, and yet those 
scourges  have  a  disproportionate  impact  on  us  as 
compared  to  the  countries  that  produce  them,  and  of 
course our ability to respond effectively is far inferior.
So  what,  then,  is  the  way  forward?  The  way 
forward lies primarily in improvement of the domestic 
environment. We continue to achieve this through laws, 
economic and social policies and our national spirit of 
perseverance. Among our many initiatives, in January 
2013, for example, Grenada will be co-hosting a meeting 
in  the  Caribbean  with  business  innovator  Sir  Richard 
Branson  on  ensuring  the  sustainable  management  of 
our marine and coastal resources.
Yet small island developing States need a far more 
supportive  international  policy  climate  and  affordable 
financing  for  a  safe  and  secure  way  forward  into 
greater sustainability. That will be the way we hold on 
to  the  hard-earned  progress  made  so  far  with  respect 
to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  how  we 
will  be  able  to  expand  it.  We  hope  then  to  be  guided 
by  the  sustainable  development  goals  and  the  post-
2015  development  framework  to  further  support  our 
ambitious economic and social transformation agenda.
We continue to believe that peace and security and 
a  reduction  in  military  spending  in  the  international 
community  will  be  good  for  a  global  economic 
recovery, which in turn will be good for the financing 
of sustainable development. Unless there is recovery in 
the  large  economies  to  which  our  own  economic  life 
2 
12-52569
remains  tied,  we  will  see  no  sustained  recovery.  We 
therefore  call  for  commitments  made  to  developing 
countries to be met, and we remain willing partners in 
South-South cooperation.
The  staggering  loss  of  life  in  Syria  must  be 
brought to an end by all those responsible. We call for 
a  politically  negotiated  and  urgent  settlement,  and  we 
reiterate  Grenada’s  support  for  the  diplomacy  work 
being carried out, inter alia, by the United Nations and 
the Arab League. We call for policies of inclusion and 
openness that will accommodate all just aspirations of 
all members of society in the Middle East and elsewhere.
We reiterate our call for a State for the Palestinian 
people in a negotiated two-State agreement with Israel 
through  a  peace  plan.  The  injustices  meted  out  to  the 
Palestinians, 
including  widespread  unemployment, 
poverty  and  displacement,  must  end  now.  The 
Palestinian  people,  led  by  their  Government,  the 
Palestinian Authority, have our strong support for their 
just aspirations. We are convinced that the two nations 
can coexist side by side in peace and harmony, like so 
many other countries.
Grenada  takes  this  opportunity  to  extend  once 
again  its  heartfelt  condolences  to  the  Government 
and people of the United States of America and to the 
bereaved  families  of  Ambassador  Chris  Stevens  and 
his  colleagues.  We  deplore  those  senseless  acts  and 
continue  to  call  for  the  improvement  of  the  protection 
of all diplomats serving abroad.
Grenada  calls  for  the  cessation  of  the  trafficking 
of  weapons  through  our  Caribbean  region  and  for  a 
firm and comprehensive, yet expeditious, agreement on 
small arms and light weapons. We also renew our call 
for the preservation of the Caribbean Sea as a zone of 
peace and development and for the bringing of an end 
to the passage of nuclear waste in our waters.
to 
the 
Grenada 
looks  forward 
third  Global 
Conference  on  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island  States  in  2014,  and  we  call  on  the  international 
community  to  lend  its  fullest  and  broadest  support 
to  that  Conference.  We  further  call  on  the  General 
Assembly to designate 2014 as the International Year of 
Small Island Developing States so as to raise awareness 
of  the  special  situation  of  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS)  and  to  mobilize  international  support 
for  their  sustainable  development.  Support  for  SIDS 
from  China  in  energy  efficiency  and  from  Norway  in 
A/67/PV.21
renewable energy is already forthcoming, as is support 
from Australia.
Without a legally binding climate regime to uphold 
environmental  integrity,  Caribbean  and  other  small 
island States would lose the opportunity for achieving 
sustainability soon, and some could even disappear. We 
therefore see the upcoming eighteenth Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Doha,  Qatar,  as  an  opportunity 
to  move  decisively  away  from  that  scenario,  and  we 
welcome  the  commitment  of  the  European  Union  to 
agreeing  to  an  ambitious  second  commitment  period 
of  the  Kyoto  Protocol  and  to  climate  financing.  We 
call  on  other  developed  countries  to  do  likewise,  and 
on  the  Secretary-General  to  encourage  States  parties 
to  move  steadfastly  towards  finalizing  a  new  binding 
climate treaty by 2015 and a gap-free period of climate 
financing starting in January 2013.
If the United Nations is to continue to lead the way in 
sustainability, peace and security, it must be reformed. 
The  centrepiece  of  that  change  must  be  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  particularly  so  as  to  include  a  seat 
for  small  island  developing  States.  Only  a  revitalized 
United  Nations  can  continue  to  play  its  historic 
role  in  guiding  the  world,  its  international  financial 
institutions included, through the geopolitical volatility 
that is destabilizing the global economic and financial 
order.  Reorganization  should  not  mean,  however, 
the  loss  of  vital  country  programmes,  especially  for 
small countries. The United Nations must continue its 
irreplaceable  work  on  behalf  of  women,  and  Grenada 
is pleased to serve on the board of UN-Women and to 
contribute to its endeavours.
Revitalization  and  reform  must  also  take  place  in 
the  Caribbean.  To  that  end,  we  call  for  the  complete 
removal  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade  of  our  sister  Caribbean  State  of  Cuba.  The 
United  States  embargo  against  Cuba,  now  almost 
50  years  old,  is  in  complete  contradiction  to  the  spirit 
of the United Nations Charter. Removal of the embargo 
has  been  specifically  called  for  by  the  leaders  of  the 
Caribbean Community as well as by an overwhelming 
majority of States Members of the United Nations. Cuba 
plays a significant humanitarian and development role 
in  the  Caribbean  and  its  economic  liberation  from  the 
embargo will allow it to contribute even more through 
the  dynamic  of  growing  South-South  cooperation. 
Furthermore,  Cuba  is  now  playing  a  facilitating  and 
mediating  role  in  one  of  the  hemisphere’s  longest 
12-52569
3
A/67/PV.21
political  crises  and  thus  making  a  major  contribution 
to  peace  and  security  in  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean region.
Two years after the unfathomable national disaster 
in  our  sister  nation  of  Haiti  in  2010,  thousands  of 
Haitians  are  nonetheless  still  homeless  and  suffering, 
as their Government remains without sufficient means 
to  complete  national  rebuilding.  Grenada  extends  its 
thanks, first and foremost, to all who have pledged and 
realized  those  pledges  for  the  benefit  of  the  Haitian 
people,  for  we  are  but  one  in  the  Caribbean.  Grenada 
remains steadfast in its commitment to this imperative, 
and we renew our appeal to the international community 
to  fulfil  all  its  commitments  and,  where  possible,  to 
increase  its  contributions  to  the  humanitarian  and 
development needs of Haiti.
Just some 100 days ago in the city of Rio de Janeiro, 
our Prime Minister, Mr. Tillman Thomas, said:
“The  United  Nations  is  indispensable  to  the 
future  we  need.  Grenada  considers  the  United 
Nations  to  be  best  placed  for  decision-making 
affecting  the  international  body  politic.  Indeed, 
the  United  Nations  has  the  full  legitimacy  needed 
to command authority [and] secure consensus and 
the  necessary  trust  among  all  global  stakeholders. 
We recommit to the United Nations and support its 
reforms.”
To  conclude,  on  6  August,  Grenada  made  history, 
winning  its  first  Olympic  medal,  a  gold  in  the  men’s 
400-metre  race,  thus  becoming,  according  to  one 
calculation,  the  country  with  the  highest  medal  per 
capita  ratio  in  the  world.  Our  people  have  not  yet 
ceased  to  celebrate  winning  gold.  Another  enduring 
act  celebrated  around  the  world,  however,  was  the 
graciousness  demonstrated  by  the  eventual  winner, 
Kirani  James,  when  he  embraced  and  exchanged  bibs 
with his co-competitor Oscar Pistorius, the outstanding 
double  amputee  from  South  Africa,  who  despite 
running  an  extraordinarily  good  race  came  in  second 
behind  the  soon-to-be  Olympic  gold  medallist.  It  was 
a  simple  Grenadian  gesture  of  admiration,  friendship 
and solidarity, but one that underscores that the human 
spirit must prevail in relations among individuals and, 
we  dare  say,  among  nations.  That  one  simple  act  of 
recognition  of  the  right  and,  far  more  important,  the 
nobility  of  another  human  being  transformed  two 
runners  into  two  brothers,  one  South  African,  one 
Grenadian, one shared humanity.
We  name  that  the  Kirani  spirit,  and  we  charge 
this  institution  with  the  Kirani  spirit  —  “charge”  as 
in  giving  it  energy;  charge  as  in  commanding  to  do 
likewise; charge as in holding the collective responsible 
for our humanity; charge as in charging each nation and 
each people with their own big-spiritedness.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Stuart  Beck,  Chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Republic of Palau.
Mr. Beck (Palau): This year’s general debate began 
with a Declaration by world leaders that our collective 
response  to  all  challenges  must  be  guided  by  the  rule 
of  law  (resolution  67/1).  Palau  is  very  proud  to  join  in 
that  Declaration,  as  our  national  story  is  inextricably 
linked  with  the  international  rule  of  law.  Not  long 
ago,  Palau  emerged  as  the  last  United  Nations  Trust 
Territory,  granted  independence  after  more  than  100 
years and four successive colonial administrations. Our 
unique road to freedom left us with a lasting legacy: a 
strong  partnership  with  the  United  States  of  America 
and  a  constitution  that  guarantees  the  Palauan  people 
the  rights  and  freedoms  enshrined  in  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
Through  independence,  we  have  preserved  our 
heritage,  our  culture  and  our  environment.  That 
preservation  was  marked  this  year  by  UNESCO’s 
designation of the Rock Islands of Palau as 2012’s only 
natural  and  cultural  world  heritage  site.  And,  just  last 
year,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
ranked  Palau  forty-ninth  in  the  world  in  its  Human 
Development  Index,  a  composite  measure  of  life 
expectancy,  health,  educational  attainment  and  living 
standards.  We  are  very  proud  of  that  ranking  for  this 
small, new country. It is a tribute to Palau’s success.
Having gained so much, Palau has worked to give 
back  to  the  international  community  and  to  make  the 
world a better place. Palau proudly deployed officers as 
peacekeepers in Timor-Leste and the Solomon Islands, 
and continues to do so today in Darfur.
Upon  first  taking  its  United  Nations  seat,  Palau 
focused its energies on the odious practice of deep-sea 
bottom  trawling.  And  though  it  has  taken  some  time 
and considerable buy-in from others, the two consensus 
resolutions  61/105  and  66/68  show  that  we  can  help 
protect  vulnerable  deep-sea  marine  ecosystems  and 
biodiversity on a global scale.
4 
12-52569
In  2009,  from  this  rostrum,  Palau’s  President, 
Johnson Toribiong, launched the first volley in an effort 
to  save  the  world’s  dwindling  shark  populations.  He 
declared the world’s first shark sanctuary in his general 
debate address. The ocean’s vitality depends on healthy 
shark  populations.  So  we  are  grateful  that  States  and 
territories  from  across  the  globe  have  joined  Palau  in 
committing to nurture shark sanctuaries. Today, almost 
2 million square miles of ocean — an area approximately 
nine  times  the  size  of  Palau’s  waters  —  are  safe  for 
sharks.
Palau  was  also  the  first  to  sound  the  alarm  on  the 
security  impacts  of  climate  change.  With  our  Pacific 
brothers  and  sisters,  we  moved  early  on  to  declare 
climate change a security issue that demands the special 
attention of every organ of the United Nations system. 
That  was  a  new  and  different  way  of  thinking  about 
the problem. Some sceptically questioned whether Blue 
Helmets would be able to hold back the rising tides.
But  18  months  after  we  began,  the  Assembly 
adopted  consensus  resolution  63/281,  inviting  the 
relevant  organs  of  the  United  Nations  to  intensify 
their  efforts  to  consider  and  address  climate  change, 
including  its  possible  security  implications.  That  call 
was heeded by Germany, when it took up the issue last 
July  as  President  of  the  Security  Council.  Thanks  to 
Germany’s  efforts,  as  well  as  those  of  others  on  the 
Council, we now have a historic presidential statement 
highlighting  the  potential  risks  of  climate  change  to 
international peace and security.
Germany’s  statement  and  resolution  63/281  have 
not  stemmed  the  rising  tides,  but  they  have  helped  to 
change  the  way  we  understand  and  discuss  climate 
change.  No  longer  can  anyone  question  the  impact  of 
climate change on energy security, on food security, on 
water security or indeed on our territorial integrity. No 
longer can anyone deny that rising seas and oppressive 
droughts  are  displacing  people  across  the  globe.  As 
the  United  States  Permanent  Representative  said 
at  last  year’s  Council  meeting,  to  deny  the  security 
implications of climate change would be pathetic.
The world has reached a crossroads on sustainable 
development.  We  have  recently  concluded  discussions 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  will  soon  delineate  new  sustainable 
development  goals,  focusing  again  on  small  island 
developing  States.  For  Palau,  that  crossroads  is  an 
A/67/PV.21
opportunity  to  better  integrate  healthy  oceans  and 
fisheries into the regulatory development framework.
Sustainable  fisheries  are  Palau’s  lifeblood.  For 
Palau,  it  has  always  been,  and  continues  to  be,  a  blue 
economy or no economy. That is why we have limited 
purse  seine  fishing,  agreed  with  our  neighbours  to 
close the doughnut holes between our jurisdictions, and 
implemented an innovative vessel day scheme strategy 
through  the  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement.  That  is 
also why we have conserved 58 per cent of our in-shore 
marine  area  through  the  Protected  Areas  Network, 
banned  bottom  trawling  and  declared  the  world’s  first 
shark sanctuary.
We were honoured this year that the Protected Areas 
Network Act and the Shark Haven Act received the 2012 
Future  Policy  Award  for  outstanding  maritime  policy 
and for contributing most effectively to the sustainable 
management  of  the  world’s  oceans  and  coasts  for  the 
benefit of current and future generations. We thank the 
World  Future  Council,  the  Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of 
the United Nations, the Okeanos Foundation for the Sea 
and  the  Global  Environmental  Facility  for  conferring 
their  generous  recognition  and  support  through  that 
award.
Palau  champions  three  straightforward  principles 
for  global  fisheries.  First,  global  fisheries  should  be 
fair. If distant-water vessels want to come for fish that 
traverse  Palau’s  waters,  they  should  respect  our  laws. 
They  should  fish  within  our  limits  and  recognize  our 
right  to  realize  the  benefits  of  our  natural  resources. 
Illegal fishing is tantamount to piracy; it robs us of our 
livelihoods and undermines our security.
Secondly,  global  fisheries  should  be  sustainable. 
We should use every means at our disposal to achieve 
stock  levels  that  will  ensure  healthy  fisheries  for 
the  long  term.  That  includes  closing  fisheries  when 
necessary.
Thirdly,  global  fisheries  should  be  accountable. 
Reports  show  that  87  per  cent  of  global  fish  stocks 
are  now  fully  exploited  or  overexploited.  Those  are 
the  worst  numbers  on  record.  Regional  fisheries 
management organizations, which stand in the shoes of 
the General Assembly, should do better and should be 
more transparent. We are encouraged that negotiations 
this year enabled the resolution on sustainable fisheries 
(resolution 66/88) to better ref lect those three principles.
12-52569
5
A/67/PV.21
Palau is pleased to report on the success of a number 
of  key  domestic  initiatives,  which  we  have  previously 
raised in the general debate. Palau has taken innovative 
steps to reduce our emissions by solarizing our airport, 
our  Government  buildings  and  our  highways.  By 
2020, we will generate 20 per cent of our energy from 
renewable  sources.  We  have  also  created  a  successful 
green  mortgage  programme  to  assist  the  financing  of 
greener  homes.  That  programme,  which  began  with 
a  small  amount  of  financing  from  Italy,  was  recently 
the subject of a workshop among 13 regional financing 
institutions,  with  plans  for  expansion  throughout  the 
Pacific.
Palau  is  also  working  to  connect  itself  to  the 
world — literally. It is inconceivable to many of us here 
in  New  York,  but  Palau  remains  without  broadband 
Internet.  That  means  that  no  Palauan  can  watch 
the  streaming  video  of  this  speech.  The  Broadband 
Commission  of  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union  tells  us  that  broadband  access  is  a  prerequisite 
to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
that  a  10  per  cent  increase  in  broadband  penetration 
increases a developing country’s gross national product 
by 1.4 per cent. We are sure that a 100 per cent increase 
would fundamentally improve Palauan health, business 
and  civic  engagement.  We  continue  to  seek  partners 
that might help Palau to reach that goal.
Last  year  Palau  underwent  its  Human  Rights 
Council Universal Periodic Review. The most repeated 
recommendation  by  Human  Rights  Council  members 
was  that  we  should  establish  a  national  human  rights 
institution.  With  the  help  of  new  partners,  we  are 
translating  human  rights  conventions  into  Palauan, 
bringing the lessons of international human rights into 
Palauan schools, harmonizing our national legislation, 
regulations and practices with the international human 
rights 
instruments,  and  supporting  human  rights 
programmes and services in Palau through that formal 
institution.
All  those  activities  have  been  complemented  by 
the  outstanding  work  being  done  to  remove  explosive 
remnants of Second World War from Palau. As President 
Toribiong  stated  from  this  rostrum  last  year,  many  of 
those explosives are still live and are being discovered 
near  our  schools,  roads  and  utilities.  With  the  help  of 
our partners, much of this unexploded ordnance is being 
destroyed. We hope that anyone interested in our efforts 
will attend our upcoming regional workshop in October 
to  see  first-hand  the  successful  model  of  cooperation 
between  Palau’s  Government,  non-governmental 
organizations,  donors  and  the  local  community  that  is 
eradicating that scourge from our midst.
We  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the 
strong  support  and  friendship  of  our  partners  for 
helping  to  get  those  and  other  important  projects  off 
the ground. Palau thanks especially the United States, 
Japan, Australia and the Republic of China (Taiwan).
Palau continues to believe that Taiwan’s meaningful 
participation in the United Nations system will help to 
further promote the system’s efficacy, goals and ideals, 
including  those  of  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
Palau  very  much  appreciates 
the  President’s 
choice  of  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means” as the theme for this year’s general debate. It is 
as  important  as  ever  that  we  commit  to  upholding  the 
peace and condemn violence wherever it occurs. To that 
end, Palau condemns in the strongest possible terms the 
recent attacks on the diplomatic premises in the Middle 
East. We agree with President Obama that such attacks 
are “an assault on the very ideals upon which the United 
Nations  was  founded”  (A/67/PV.6,  p.  11).  We  must  be 
vigilant in protecting all diplomatic missions, wherever 
they may be.
Closer  to  our  shores  in  the  Pacific,  Palau  is  also 
hopeful  that  tensions  in  the  East  China  Sea  will 
dissipate, and that all of our neighbours can engage in a 
more peaceful dialogue.
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  cautioned  the 
world  last  week  that  we  are  wilfully  blind  when  it 
comes  to  climate  change.  We  are  awash  in  reports 
telling us that the situation is dire. We have experienced 
more  than  100  consecutive  months  of  temperatures 
above  global  averages.  Nine  of  the  10  warmest  years 
on  record  have  occurred  since  the  year  2000.  Arctic 
sea  ice  is  at  its  lowest  level  in  recorded  history.  Coral 
reefs are disappearing at an alarming rate. Now, buried 
in the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate  Change  regarding  the  management  of  risk  is 
advice  to  policymakers  in  small  island  States  that,  in 
certain cases, they may wish to consider relocating their 
populations.  We  assure  the  members  of  the  Assembly 
that  Palau  has  no  intention  of  moving  its  people.  Our 
islands are their home. They are the essence of Palau’s 
very being. I can state with every confidence that Palau 
6 
12-52569
will  pursue  every  legitimate  recourse  available  before 
we concede hope.
situation  at 
The  current 
the  UNFCCC 
is 
unacceptable. After more than 20 years of negotiations, 
we are running out of creative ways to say that countries 
are  being  destroyed.  Sadly,  it  seems  that  the  most 
vulnerable countries have become acceptable collateral 
damage. The world knows the causes of climate change. 
It  is  within  our  grasp  to  effect  a  solution.  No  army 
stands  in  our  way.  If  something  is  not  done  soon,  all 
the good, hard work to which Palau and the other island 
nations of the world have dedicated themselves will be 
for naught.
Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
In  conclusion,  we  know  that  the  times  we  live  in 
are turbulent, but we must heed our leaders’ call to be 
guided  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  rule  of  law.  Palau  will  continue  to  do 
its  part  by  being  a  moral  voice  for  what  is  right,  and 
hopefully, a model global citizen.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency Mr. Carsten Staur, head of the delegation of 
Denmark.
Mr.  Staur  (Demark):  In  a  complex  world,  it  is 
smart  economics  and  also  smart  politics  to  focus  on 
prevention  rather  than  cure.  This  holds  true  whether 
we  address  the  global  economic  crisis,  sustainable 
development  and  poverty  reduction,  conf licts  like 
the  one  in  Syria,  or  the  arms  trade  and  disarmament. 
In  that  context,  the  inclusion  of  women  in  political 
decision-making  processes  is  not  only  the  right  thing 
to do, it is one of the most powerful drivers for positive 
change.
Our  natural  resources  are  increasingly  under 
pressure.  By  2030,  the  world  will  need  50  per  cent 
more  food,  45  per  cent  more  energy  and  30  per  cent 
more  water.  Thus,  we  must  chart  a  new  course  for 
our  common  future  and  develop  a  new  paradigm  for 
economic  growth  and  development  that  will  make  it 
possible  to  deal  with  those  challenges  and  to  create 
opportunities for future generations.
In  June,  at 
the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20),  we  made 
some  progress,  laying  down  the  foundations  for  the 
transformative  process  we  need  to  pursue.  But  the 
house  still  has  to  be  built,  and  the  General  Assembly 
A/67/PV.21
must  provide  some  of  the  important  building  blocks 
to  do  this.  Defining  sustainable  development  goals  as 
part of the overall post-2015 international development 
framework,  establishing  the  new  high-level  political 
forum, and upgrading the United Nations Environment 
Programme  are  all  key  parts  of  the  agenda  before  us. 
Denmark  strongly  supports  the  Secretary-General’s 
Sustainable  Energy 
launched 
in  November  2011,  and  remains  committed  to  its 
objectives.  Access  to  sustainable  energy,  improved 
energy efficiency and increased use of renewable energy 
are  all  necessary  conditions  for  achieving  long-term 
sustainable development. At Rio+20, a green economy 
was  finally  recognized  as  one  of  the  important  tools 
available for achieving sustainable development.
initiative, 
for  All 
We need to work in close partnership with both the 
private  sector  and  civil  society,  if  we  are  to  succeed 
in  transforming  the  global  economy.  The  Danish 
Government,  in  partnership  with  the  Governments 
of  Mexico  and  Republic  of  Korea,  last  year  created 
a  public-private  partnership  among  progressive 
Governments, 
financial 
institutions  and  international  organizations,  including 
the  United  Nations,  called  the  Global  Green  Growth 
Forum. At the second Forum meeting a week from now, 
in Copenhagen, the focus will be on resource efficiency 
and growth, reinforcing the need to decouple economic 
growth  from  unsustainable  environmental  pressures 
and to refocus efforts on the creation of decent jobs.
corporations, 
global 
While  making  the  last  push  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  2015,  we  will  start 
preparing  the  post-2015  international  development 
framework and embark on the discussion on how to best 
formulate new and more ambitious goals beyond 2015. 
As stated, the sustainable development goals should be 
an  integrated  part  of  this  exercise.  Denmark  strongly 
supports the promotion of human rights as a means to 
development, rights being understood as indivisible and 
interdependent.  Such  a  rights-based  approach  is  about 
placing  people  —  men  and  women  —  at  the  centre 
and  in  charge  of  their  own  development.  And  let  me 
add, in the case of a woman, this also means the right 
to  decide  over  her  own  body.  That  is  why  Denmark 
welcomes  today’s  launch  of  the  high-level  task  force 
for  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development.  Important  parts  of  the  rights-based 
approach  are  access  to  information,  involvement  in 
decision-making  and  strengthening  the  voice  of  civil 
society.
12-52569
7
A/67/PV.21
Four  decades  ago,  the  United  Nations  set  a  target 
for  developed  countries  to  increase  their  official 
development  assistance  to  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross 
national  income.  Every  year  since  1978  Denmark  has 
surpassed  the  target,  and  our  development  assistance 
will  continue  to  increase  over  the  years  to  come.  We 
call  on  other  donors  and  potential  donors,  including 
emerging  economies,  to  increase  their  assistance  as 
well.
We  see  a  great  need  for  support  to  fragile  States 
like  Somalia,  South  Sudan,  Yemen,  Afghanistan  and 
Mali, where fragility and conf lict hamper development 
and  poverty  reduction  and  may  provide  a  breeding 
ground for all kinds of instability. We see positive signs 
in those countries, but there are still many challenges, 
and we therefore require strong and continuous political 
commitment, both within the countries themselves and 
on  the  part  of  the  international  community,  in  order 
to  succeed.  We  in  the  international  community  need 
to  take  a  closer  look  inside  our  toolbox  and  find  the 
right mix of development assistance and security policy 
response,  including  ways  of  addressing  terrorism 
and  in  some  cases  piracy.  In  conf lict-affected  and 
fragile  countries,  there  is  a  need  to  understand  that 
without  security  there  can  be  no  development  and 
that  without  development  there  can  be  no  security. 
Denmark  actively  participates  in  promoting  the  New 
Deal  for  Engagement  in  Fragile  States,  and  we  are 
currently  co-chairing  the  International  Dialogue  on 
Peacebuilding  and  State-building.  A  peaceful  and 
prosperous  development  in  fragile  States  stands  at 
the heart of Danish development policy, most recently 
exemplified  in  the  Sahel  region.  Denmark  shares 
the  ambition  of  the  International  Dialogue  to  have 
peacebuilding and statebuilding goals firmly ref lected 
in the post-2015 international development framework.
We  must  also  use  international  cooperation  to 
reduce  the  level  of  conf licts  and  to  set  clear  rules  for 
all  to  abide  by.  Unregulated  and  irresponsible  trade 
of  conventional  weapons  is  often  the  direct  cause  of 
unbearable  human  suffering.  It  further  destabilizes 
weak  and  fragile  States  and 
to 
development.  There  is  an  urgent  need  for  a  universal 
and  legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty,  and,  together 
with Germany, Denmark has encouraged the Secretary-
General  to  continue  his  strong  personal  engagement 
with  respect  to  the  convening  of  a  second  arms  trade 
treaty  conference  early  next  year.  Now  is  the  time  to 
act, and we call upon the members of the Assembly to 
is  a  hindrance 
successfully conclude negotiations on a treaty and to do 
so without delay.
Let  me  use  this  occasion  to  once  again  call  on 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  and  more 
particularly  on  Iran,  to  comply  with  international 
law  and  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  It  is 
in  Iran’s  own  interest  to  take  concrete  steps  to  build 
international  confidence  in  the  exclusively  peaceful 
nature  of  its  nuclear  programme.  The  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is a cornerstone 
of  international  cooperation  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.  In  this  context,  Denmark  actively 
supports the work of the Finnish facilitator to organize 
a  conference  on  the  Middle  East  as  a  zone  free  of 
weapons and materials of mass destruction.
For  Denmark  and  the  European  Union,  the  rule 
of  law  is  critical  to  international  peace  and  security, 
human  rights  and  development.  It  is  a  fundamental 
principle  of  good  governance,  whereby  the  State  is 
accountable  to  its  citizens  and  ensures  their  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  as  well  as  their 
participatory rights. We therefore welcome the outcome 
of  last  week’s  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law 
at  the  National  and  International  Levels  (resolution 
67/1)  and  the  commitments  made  by  Member  States. 
Denmark  also  looks  forward  to  an  effective  follow-up 
to the High-level Meeting.
International  agreement  on  the  responsibility  to 
protect at the 2005 World Summit was a clear statement 
by  the  international  community  that  the  atrocities 
and  large-scale  tragedies  of  the  last  century  must  not 
be  repeated  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  global 
network of national focal points on the responsibility to 
protect — an initiative launched by the Governments of 
Denmark and Ghana, Costa Rica and Australia — is an 
approach  to  encourage  and  assist  States  in  developing 
their  national  capacities  and  mechanisms  for  the 
prevention  of  mass  atrocity  crimes.  We  call  on  all 
States  to  appoint  national  focal  points  and  to  join  the 
network,  thereby  demonstrating  their  commitment  to 
decisive and timely prevention and response.
Even  as  I  speak,  we  are  witnessing  in  Syria  a 
Government that is not living up to its moral and political 
obligations. Instead, it pursues a violent path of trying 
to  quell  the  cry  for  freedom,  for  democratic  reforms 
and  for  human  rights.  Despite  several  promises  made 
to the international community during the last year, the 
Al-Assad regime has not stopped the violence. Instead 
8 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
we have only heard the sound of machine guns, heavy 
weapons and airplanes firing away at civilians. Since I 
stood here at this rostrum a year ago (see A/66/PV.29), 
the  situation  has  only  deteriorated.  Last  year  about 
2,600  people  in  Syria  had  died  in  the  conf lict.  Now, 
more  than  20,000  people  have  suffered  that  fate.  The 
Syrian  people  are  f leeing  from  the  shooting  spree, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  million  of  them  are  now  refugees 
in neighbouring countries. More than a million people 
inside Syria are in need of humanitarian assistance.
reforms,  economic  justice,  democracy  and  respect  for 
human  rights  have  been  heard,  and  in  countries  like 
Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt and Libya things are moving, 
and generally in the right direction. But there are also 
signs  that  progress  is  not  universal,  for  example,  the 
recent  decision  by  the  Bahraini  Court  of  Cassation  to 
uphold  the  convictions  of  20  human  rights  activists, 
including a Danish national. Calling for reforms is not a 
crime, as was rightly pointed out by the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
We condemn the brutal violence and massacres of 
civilians in the strongest terms. The time has come to 
stop the bloodshed and the suffering of the Syrian people. 
We  cannot  look  away  while  the  increasing  sectarian 
violence  spirals  out  of  control,  the  humanitarian 
emergency escalates and the crisis spills over borders. 
President  Al-Assad  has  lost  all  legitimacy  and  must 
step  aside  to  allow  for  a  peaceful  and  democratic 
transition. At the same time, those responsible for gross 
human rights violations must be brought to justice. We 
commend  the  very  valuable  work  done  by  the  Human 
Rights  Council’s  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Syria. 
We  note  in  particular  that  the  Commission  has  stated 
that it is likely that crimes against humanity have been 
committed  by  the  Syrian  regime.  The  international 
community must act on that information. Denmark calls 
on  the  Security  Council  to  refer  the  case  of  Syria  and 
the serious violations of international humanitarian law 
committed in the country to the International Criminal 
Court.
We urge the Security Council to unite and agree on 
strong  measures,  including  comprehensive  sanctions, 
to  enforce  the  six-point  plan  endorsed  by  the  Council. 
We  cannot  afford  to  continue  waiting  for  a  change  of 
policy on the part of the regime, which it shows no sign 
of ever making. The Syrian people need action. At the 
same time, we strongly encourage the Syrian opposition 
groups to agree on a set of shared principles for working 
towards  an  inclusive,  orderly  and  peaceful  transition 
in  Syria  to  a  future  free  of  Al-Assad  and  his  brutal 
regime. While thanking former Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan for his valuable contribution to finding a lasting 
solution to the conf lict, we now put our trust in the new 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, and 
in his efforts at reaching a political solution.
The negative developments in Syria stand in sharp 
contrast  to  the  situation  in  other  countries  that  have 
been  affected  by  the  Arab  winds  of  change.  Calls  for 
Last  month’s  election  of  the  new  Prime  Minister 
in  Libya  by  a  democratically  elected  parliament  is  a 
concrete  example  of  progress,  which  makes  it  all  the 
more  difficult  to  comprehend  the  terrible  and  tragic 
attack  on  the  United  States  Consulate  in  Benghazi, 
which we have strongly condemned. It was a sobering 
reminder  of  the  serious  challenges  that  still  persist  in 
countries  in  transition  toward  democracy.  Democracy 
does not happen overnight. It takes years to develop, and 
attacks by extremists should not be allowed to derail a 
process  that  the  majority  of  the  people  have  fought  so 
hard for. We stand firm by our commitments to Libya, 
and  we  stand  firm  in  there  being  no  justification  for 
such attacks — none whatsoever.
It  has  been  clear  since  the  beginning  of  the  Arab 
Spring that developments in the region make the Middle 
East  peace  process  and  a  negotiated  solution  even 
more  urgent  and  important.  A  year  ago,  the  Quartet 
in  its  23  September  2011  statement  (SG/2178)  called 
for  a  peace  agreement  to  be  signed  no  later  than  the 
end of 2012. Regrettably, we face a reality which does 
not  augur  well  for  that  to  happen.  As  things  develop 
on  the  ground,  the  prospects  for  a  two-State  solution, 
providing for two independent, democratic, contiguous, 
sovereign  and  viable  States  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security,  are  diminishing,  not  increasing. 
As  we  approach  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Oslo 
Agreement, it is indeed time to reach a final agreement.
The world is undergoing profound changes. Current 
and  new  challenges  call  for  international  resolve 
and  multilateral  solutions.  They  call  for  strategic 
approaches, focusing on prevention and early action to 
dismantle  problems,  rather  than  on  belated  responses 
and interventions to deal with them when it is too late, 
too  inefficient  and  much  more  costly.  And  they  call 
for  the  United  Nations,  the  strength  of  which  lies  in 
its  unique  legitimacy,  to  stand  up  and  take  the  lead  in 
addressing  global  challenges.  The  United  Nations  can 
12-52569
9
A/67/PV.21
make  a  real  difference  for  the  7  billion  people  living 
on this planet. It is up to all of us to ensure that it does.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
Chairman of the delegation of the Republic of Portugal.
Mr. Moraes Cabral (Portugal) (spoke in Portuguese; 
English text provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  His 
election  represents  one  more  important  step  in  an 
already illustrious career, as well as a historic moment 
for  Serbia,  one  that  recognizes  its  courageous  efforts 
to overcome a difficult recent past and to proceed with 
determination towards European integration.
Allow  me  also  to  express  a  word  of  recognition 
to  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his 
successful leadership of the Assembly in a particularly 
demanding  year.  We  also  offer  praise  and  support  to 
our  Secretary-General  for  his  commendable  work,  in 
particular  for  his  efforts  made  to  promote  peace  in  a 
time of great challenges.
As  Portugal  is  three  months  away  from  the 
conclusion  of  our  mandate  in  the  Security  Council, 
to  which  we  were  elected  by  a  significant  majority  of 
the  Member  States  present  in  this  Hall,  we  consider 
it  appropriate  to  present  an  assessment  to  the  General 
Assembly.  We  fulfilled  our  mandate  with  both  rigour 
and  transparency,  always  seeking  to  strengthen  the 
credibility  and  efficiency  of  the  principal  organ 
entrusted  with  the  protection  of  international  peace 
and  security.  We  were  guided  by  the  same  principles 
that have always oriented our foreign policy and which 
have  merited  the  trust  of  the  Assembly,  namely,  the 
defence of the primacy of international law, the search 
for effective multilateralism and the central role of the 
United Nations in the international architecture.
With  equal  coherence  and  firm  resolve  we  have 
defended  the  promotion  of  human  rights,  the  role  of 
women,  the  protection  of  civilians,  the  strengthening 
of  action  defending  children  against  violence  and  the 
protection of children in the context of armed conf lict. 
Sustainable  development,  the  fight  against  poverty, 
food  security  and  the  particularly  devastating  effects 
of  climate  change  on  small  island  developing  States, 
which  threaten  their  very  existence,  remain,  for 
Portugal, fundamental pillars for our action within the 
United Nations.
With  equal  perseverance,  we  have  sought  to 
strengthen the role of the Security Council in the fight 
against  new  challenges  to  international  peace  and 
security,  such  as  organized  crime;  the  proliferation  of 
illicit trafficking, terrorism and pandemics; the Council’s 
capacity  to  prevent  conf licts  and  to  bring  mediation 
into play; and its efforts to improve coordination with 
regional and subregional organizations. We have played 
an  active  role,  and  continue  to  do  so,  in  the  collective 
efforts to overcome crises, such as those that emerged 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya  and  Yemen,  or  the  current 
challenges in Syria, Guinea-Bissau and Mali.
Our  actions  have  always  been  driven  by  openness 
to  dialogue  and  a  constructive  and  balanced  attitude, 
embodying our vocation to build bridges and generate 
consensus without abdicating our values and principles. 
We hope to have lived up to the high expectations and 
trust placed in us.
As  Chair  of  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  we 
sought  to  improve  the  internal  working  methods  of 
the  Council  and  its  communication  with  the  General 
Assembly, with a view to making it more effective and 
open  and  more  in  harmony  with  our  times.  We  will 
present a report to the Assembly on the work undertaken 
on that issue.
It  is  important,  however,  to  recognize  that  the 
credibility of the Security Council is also underpinned 
by  a  need  for  its  composition  to  ref lect  the  current 
geopolitical reality, one that is quite different from the 
dynamic  that  was  in  place  in  1945.  It  is  increasingly 
difficult for us, as it is for many others, to see that the 
increasing role of Brazil and India in the international 
scene  has  not  yet  been  acknowledged  with  permanent 
seats on the Security Council, or that Africa is the only 
continent without a permanent seat on the Council.
The  Security  Council  continues 
to  confront 
serious  obstacles.  The  number  of  victims  in  Syria 
is  exponentially  increasing  day  by  day.  We  remain 
impotent  witnesses  before  a 
true  humanitarian 
catastrophe  and  a  generalized  systematic  violation  of 
the most basic rights of the Syrian people. In addition, 
the catastrophe could have been avoided had the Syrian 
Government  not  chosen  military  force  and  brutal 
repression in response to the legitimate protests by its 
people,  which  systematically  excluded  any  possibility 
of a politically negotiated outcome to the crisis.
10 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
However,  there  is  no  alternative  to  a  political 
solution, one that supports the legitimate aspirations of 
the Syrian people and allows for a democratic transition 
driven by the Syrians themselves, one in which they see 
their  wishes  ref lected.  Increased  militarization  of  the 
conf lict will undoubtedly lead to even more suffering for 
the civilian population, threaten the territorial integrity 
of Syria and increase the risks of destabilization for its 
neighbours and indeed for the region as a whole.
The  appointment  of  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  a 
diplomat whom we greatly respect, as the Joint Special 
Representative of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States for Syria should be seen as a new opportunity 
for the parties to revisit their options, cease the violence 
and seriously engage in a process of political transition. 
For  the  Joint  Special  Representative’s  mission  to  be  a 
success, the Security Council will finally have to exert 
joint,  continued  and  effective  pressure  on  all  parties 
and most certainly on the Syrian authorities, who bear 
primary responsibility for the current situation.
The  impasse  in  finding  a  lasting  solution  to  the 
Israeli-Arab  conf lict  is  also  of  great  concern  and  an 
increasingly  urgent  issue  in  the  light  of  the  recent 
developments  in  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa 
and the fight of the people of those regions for liberty, 
democracy and dignity. There will be no lasting peace, 
no stability and no security in the Middle East without 
a solution to the question of Palestine.
We  understand  and  share  Israel’s 
legitimate 
security aspirations. Yet we also understand and share 
the  frustration  of  the  Palestinian  people,  for  whom 
an  independent  Palestinian  State  is  not  simply  an 
inalienable right, but also a straightforward question of 
justice.  Only  a  comprehensive  deal  that  is  negotiated 
directly  by  the  parties  on  the  basis  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  internationally  recognized  parameters 
and which solves the pending questions and is dedicated 
to the two-State solution of Israel and Palestine living 
side  by  side  in  peace  will  meet  both  the  security 
concerns  laid  down  by  Israel  and  the  aspirations  of 
the  Palestinian  people  for  independence,  liberty  and 
dignity.  We  appeal  to  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  to 
quickly restart direct negotiations.
Another  regional  issue  still  at  an  impasse  and  of 
serious  concern  in  the  Middle  East  is  the  question  of 
a  nuclear  Iran.  We  regret  the  absence  of  any  positive 
developments  on  the  issue  despite  the  significant 
diplomatic  efforts  under  way  and  the  application  of 
mechanisms of international pressure. The onus of the 
situation is on Tehran.
In  Africa,  we  are  faced  with  a  grave  situation  in 
the  Sahel,  particularly  in  Mali,  which  threatens  the 
whole  region  and  could  spread  throughout  Western 
Africa,  putting  both  stability  and  development  at  risk 
in  a  number  of  countries.  As  a  result  of  a  tapestry  of 
historical,  economic  and  social  inf luences,  we  are 
witnessing  an  exponential  growth  in  terrorism,  with 
increasing  links  to  organized  transnational  crime, 
drugs and other sorts of illicit trafficking. In that regard, 
the  international  community  should  be  more  active. 
Accordingly,  we  support  the  outcome  of  the  recent 
High-level Meeting on the Sahel, which contributed to 
the  creation  of  an  integrated  international  strategy  for 
the region.
It  is  against  that  grave  regional  background  that 
the  crisis  in  Guinea-Bissau  is  unfolding.  The  military 
coup  of  12  April  interrupted  a  democratic  electoral 
process,  violating  the  principles  defended  by  the 
United  Nations,  as  was  clearly  recognized  in  Security 
Council resolution 2048 (2012). It is imperative that the 
constitutional order in Guinea-Bissau be restored. That 
requires  the  appointment  of  an  inclusive  Government 
that  includes  the  African  Party  for  the  Independence 
of Guinea and Cape Verde, which is the party holding 
the majority in the National Assembly; permission for 
the legitimate leaders to return without restrictions on 
their  civil  and  political  rights;  and  the  organization  of 
free and credible elections. Any and all solutions to the 
present crisis will have to respect international legality 
and the constitutional order of Guinea-Bissau, and must 
be  translated  into  an  internal,  inclusive,  and  credible 
political process capable of creating national stability.
To that end, coordinated action by the international 
community — the United Nations, the African Union, 
the Economic Community of West African States, the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP) 
and  the  European  Union  —  is  essential.  Portugal  is 
fully engaged and available to work with all interested 
parties in the process.
It is inconceivable that, in the twenty-first century, 
democratically elected African leaders are pushed aside 
by force and are made to live outside their countries. It is 
up to all of us to defend the principles of the Charter and 
to apply, without any ambiguities, the principle of zero 
tolerance in such situations. In that context, I note the 
increasingly relevant role of the African Union, which 
12-52569
11
A/67/PV.21
has been working in close coordination with the United 
Nations for the promotion and protection of peace and 
security on the African continent. I also take advantage 
of this opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Dlamini-Zuma 
on  her  election  as  President  of  the  Commission  of  the 
African Union. That also represents a milestone in the 
strengthening of the role of women in Africa, which we 
also welcome with great satisfaction.
Allow  me  also  to  refer  to  a  successful  case  and  a 
good example, Timor-Leste. It is a successful example 
thanks, first of all, to the Timorese themselves, but also 
owing  to  the  efficient  support  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  United  Nations  Integrated  Mission  in  Timor-
Leste will conclude its mandate at the end of the year. 
It  will  do  so  with  the  sense  of  having  accomplished 
its  purpose,  thanks  to  the  maturity  shown  by  the 
Timorese  people  over  recent  years,  as  exemplified  in 
the  successful  presidential  and  legislative  elections 
held just a few months ago. A new cycle of cooperation 
between the international community and Timor-Leste 
is  now  opening  in  line  with  the  priorities  defined  by 
that country’s Government.
including 
the  strengthening  of 
In  that  context,  Portugal  will  continue  to  support 
Timor-Leste  on  its  path  to  economic  and  social 
development, 
its 
institutions  and  democratic  values,  as  well  as  the  rule 
of  law  and  the  promotion  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
Timorese people. Timor-Leste, like Guinea-Bissau, is a 
member State of the CPLP, along with Angola, Brazil, 
Cape Verde, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe. 
Within  the  CPLP  we  share  a  common  language  and 
history,  but  we  have  also  developed  shared  efforts 
towards the defence of universal values, through active 
multilateralism  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  regional  organizations  to  which  we 
belong.
The  significance  of  the  Portuguese  language  as 
a  language  of  global  communication,  business  and 
culture,  with  about  250  million  speakers,  should  be 
taken advantage of by the international community. For 
that reason, we will continue to work together to have 
Portuguese  recognized  as  an  official  language  of  the 
United Nations.
I  referred  at  the  beginning  of  my  statement  to 
Portugal’s  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  the  most 
effective  means  for  finding  common  solutions  to  the 
global  challenges  that  we  face.  I  specifically  noted 
our  efforts  in  the  defence  of  human  rights  and  in  the 
promotion of sustainable development. In that context, 
we  support  the  outcomes  achieved  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  in 
part thanks to the notable efforts of Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon and the Brazilian Government.
We  continue  to  defend  the  universal,  indivisible 
and  interdependent  rights  of  all  human  beings,  be 
they  political,  economic,  social  or  cultural.  We  have 
a  solid  commitment  to  humanitarian  law  and  to  the 
excellent work of the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees.  In  that  context,  with  the 
commitment  to  defend  and  promote  human  rights  and 
with  the  same  sense  of  responsibility  with  which  we 
undertook our current mandate in the Security Council, 
Portugal  has  announced  its  candidacy  for  the  Human 
Rights Council for the years 2015 to 2017. We hope to 
be able to merit, once again, the trust of the Assembly 
and to serve, for the first time, in that body.
The changes in today’s world call for the promotion 
of  a  culture  of  dialogue  on  a  global  scale  based  on 
tolerance  and  the  respect  for  human  dignity.  The 
United Nations should remain in the vanguard of those 
efforts, namely through initiatives such as the Alliance 
of Civilizations. I would like to congratulate the High 
Representative  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  for 
his  leadership  and  work  in  the  defence  of  peace  and 
of  a  better  understanding  among  peoples.  Indeed,  the 
dialogue  among  different  cultures,  civilizations  and 
religions is at the very heart of the work of the United 
Nations.
In  conclusion,  today,  as  in  the  past,  the  United 
Nations  has  to  ref lect  on  what  it  is  and  what  we 
collectively  want  it  to  be.  It  should  translate  the 
indispensable  convergence  of  the  common  will  of 
States  into  actions  that  contribute  to  a  better  world. 
Its  central  objective  should  be  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security and greater prosperity 
for all. Portugal stands steadfast in its commitment to 
those efforts.
The Acting President: I now call on the Chairman 
of  the  delegation  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela.
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  would  like  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session.
12 
12-52569
Our  world  is  aff licted  by  new  political,  economic 
and  social  turmoil  that  has  disrupted  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  and  reduced 
the  quality  of  life  for  millions  of  human  beings.  New 
neocolonial wars have been launched aimed at seizing 
the natural resources of developing countries.
The proponents of capitalism, while attempting to 
overcome  the  deep  economic  crisis  that  has  affected 
the global financial system, have been resorting to new 
imperialistic  strategies  and  overexploiting  workers, 
including  those  in  developing  countries.  The  social 
welfare  State  and  the  social  achievements  attained 
after the Second World War are now in the process of 
being  dismantled.  The  new  imperialists  have  sought 
to transfer responsibility for the crisis to those born in 
other countries and to immigrants, whereas the current 
economic  crisis  was  caused  primarily  by  financial 
speculators. Social policies are gradually being reduced 
or eliminated. The middle class has been growing poor. 
Hunger, poverty and unemployment are reappearing in 
the  developed  countries  and  are  spreading  around  the 
world. Suffering and despair are increasing.
Meanwhile, Latin America and the Caribbean have 
managed  to  tackle,  with  relative  success,  the  impact 
of  those  global  economic  and  financial  imbalances. 
The  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Latin 
America and the Caribbean reports that the economies 
in our region have had a significant rebound beginning 
in  2010,  which  enabled  our  region  to  mitigate  the 
effects  of  the  2008  to  2009  crisis.  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean  are  well  positioned  on  the  world  stage, 
thanks to the strengthening of initiatives in the area of 
regional  integration,  designed  to  strengthen  political 
and  economic  autonomy.  Therefore,  the  domination 
that the imperial Powers and their multinationals have 
imposed  on  developing  countries  is  gradually  being 
overcome.
The  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America is a new coordination mechanism for dialogue 
guided by cooperation, complementarity and solidarity 
among  sovereign  nations.  It  represents  an  alternative 
for the liberation and independence of our countries.
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States  (CELAC)  and  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations (UNASUR) are regional spaces of multilateral 
cooperation  aimed  at  strengthening  the  unity  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  and  are  constructing 
a  multipolar,  balanced  and  just  world  in  which  the 
A/67/PV.21
sovereign  equality  of  States  will  prevail  as  well  as  a 
culture of peace in a world free of nuclear weapons and 
of weapons of mass destruction. CELAC and UNASUR 
have  inspired  social  and  human  development,  with 
equity  and  inclusion,  and  seek  to  eradicate  poverty 
and  overcome  inequalities  in  the  region.  In  Latin 
America and the Caribbean, we are seeing a new type 
of  regionalism  that  is  being  promoted  by  diplomatic 
solidarity.
Today, the unipolar system of imperial domination 
is in crisis. A pluripolar and multi-centred system has 
been  coming  into  being,  in  which  emerging  countries 
and  new  regional  blocs  are  able  to  contribute  to  the 
democratization of international relations. Meanwhile, 
the  imperial  Powers  have  been  promoting,  within  the 
United  Nations,  a  new  regulatory  framework  enabling 
foreign  intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States, 
trying to get States to give up their sovereignty, political 
independence  and  self-determination.  Those  Powers 
have  become  the  judges,  jurors  and  administrators  of 
internal conf licts in the countries of the South, resorting 
to  interventionist  initiatives  that  are  conceived  here 
at  the  United  Nations  and  implemented  through  the 
Security Council.
A new international order, truly based on the legal 
equality of States, is an imperative demand. Reform of 
the United Nations is necessary. The Security Council 
must  become  more  democratic  if  it  wishes  to  express 
the  will  of  all  nations.  The  General  Assembly  is 
begging  for  revitalization,  and  the  Secretary-General 
should be elected democratically, by all Member States. 
International peace and security cannot be built on the 
basis of privileges for a few.
The 
international 
financial  architecture 
that 
emerged  at  Bretton  Woods  is  anti-democratic.  The 
General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  are  never  taken  into  account  when  decisions 
are made on vital economic and financial matters that 
affect all of humankind. Reform of the global economic 
and  financial  system  must  be  addressed  in  the  United 
Nations,  and  all  countries  should  have  an  equal  voice 
in  the  search  for  solutions  to  problems  related  to 
development.
In Syria we are following the same interventionist 
script  that  was  applied  in  Libya.  Imperial  Powers  are 
fomenting  ethnic,  political  and  religious  divisions 
between Syrians and between Syria and its neighbours. 
They  are  shamelessly  supplying  weapons  to  the  rebel 
12-52569
13
A/67/PV.21
forces  in  an  attempt  to  overthrow  the  Government  of 
that Arab country. Venezuela supports the peace efforts 
being  made  by  the  Joint  Special  Representative  of  the 
United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi.  We  should  encourage  political 
dialogue  between  Syrians,  but  we  reject  foreign 
intervention  and  the  deadly  policy  of  regime  change. 
We  support  the  positions  of  Russia,  China  and  other 
countries  on  the  issue;  they  demand  that  the  Security 
Council respect the territorial unity and integrity of the 
Syrian  State.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  can  play  a 
proactive role in helping to solve that crisis.
The United States continues to maintain its criminal 
economic and financial blockade of the fraternal people 
of  Cuba.  Venezuela  emphasizes  its  solidarity  with  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  demands  an 
end to that unilateral coercive measure. It is ironic that 
a  country  that  practices  State  terrorism  and  shelters 
the well-known terrorist Luís Posada Carriles includes 
Cuba  on  its  list  of  countries  that  support  terrorism. 
We  demand  that  Cuba  be  removed  from  that  arbitrary 
classification,  whose  sole  purpose  is  to  justify  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
its people.
The  Bolivarian  Government  reaffirms  its  support 
for  the  existence  of  a  Palestinian  State,  independent 
and  sovereign,  within 
recognized 
borders, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  We 
also  reiterate  our  support  for  Palestine’s  admission  as 
a State Member of the United Nations with full rights.
internationally 
We are concerned about the warmongering threats 
of  the  Governments  of  Israel  and  the  United  States 
against  Iran.  A  military  attack  on  that  Persian  nation 
would  have  fatal  consequences  for  world  peace.  We 
recognize the sovereign right of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Respect  for  cultures  and  religions  ensures  the 
peaceful coexistence of the human beings who populate 
our  planet.  Within  the  crisis  of  capitalism,  we  have 
once  again  seen  a  resurgence  in  Western  countries  of 
racial hatred, xenophobia and hostility to other cultures 
and religions. The reprehensible video against the great 
Prophet Muhammad and Islam has naturally provoked 
protests  among  Muslim  peoples.  Such  anti-Islamic 
expressions are not random; they are part of a political 
and ideological climate that fosters hatred against those 
who are different.
We deplore the fact that freedom of speech is being 
used to offend religions and denigrate religious prophets. 
What are the limits of the freedom of expression? Is it an 
absolute freedom that allows one to besmirch people’s 
deepest  beliefs  and  religious  feelings?  Venezuela 
rejects exhibitions of xenophobia against Muslims and 
supports  dialogue  between  cultures  and  civilizations 
aimed  at  promoting  peace  and  brotherhood  among 
human beings. At the same time, we call for respect for 
the inviolability of diplomatic premises and the dignity 
of human life.
Venezuela appreciates all efforts on the part of the 
United Nations to improve its mediation capabilities in 
crisis situations that could have negative consequences 
for international peace and stability. The United Nations 
should  act  in  a  neutral  and  impartial  fashion,  with  a 
view to strengthening its ability to mediate in cases in 
which it is voluntarily and expressly requested to do so 
by  the  parties  involved  in  international  conf licts.  The 
countries  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  have 
very  valuable  experience  in  the  use  of  dialogue  and 
mediation for the settlement of disputes. The Rio Group 
made a major contribution in helping to end the terrible 
armed conf licts in Central America in recent years, and 
UNASUR has also helped to prevent and settle disputes 
in our region.
Venezuela  welcomes  the  announcement  made  by 
the  President  of  Colombia,  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos, 
that  negotiations  will  begin  between  his  Government 
and  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colombia 
(FARC),  with  a  view  to  achieving  stable  and  lasting 
peace.  Venezuela,  Cuba,  Chile  and  Norway  are 
taking  part  in  the  dialogue  process  as  supporters,  by 
agreement  between  the  Colombian  authorities  and 
FARC.  The  Bolivarian  Government  is  backing  peace 
and reconciliation for the Colombian people.
Venezuela  supports  the  Republic  of  Argentina’s 
right  of  sovereignty  over  the  Malvinas  Islands,  the 
South Georgia Islands and the South Sandwich Islands, 
and  the  surrounding  maritime  areas.  We  reiterate  our 
call  to  the  United  Kingdom  to  begin  talks  with  that 
fraternal South American country in order to arrive at 
a negotiated and peaceful solution to that dispute.
On Sunday, 7 October, democratic elections will be 
held in Venezuela to elect the President of the Republic. 
They  will  be  transparent  and  credible,  because,  as 
former  United  States  President  Jimmy  Carter  said 
a  few  days  ago,  we  have  the  most  modern  electoral 
14 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
system  in  the  world.  Between  1999  and  2012  we  have 
held  14  clean  national  elections,  a  world  record  in 
political participation. We should issue a warning, here 
in  this  forum,  that  anti-democratic  national  elements, 
in  alliance  with  foreign  interests,  are  attempting  to 
use violence in order to subvert the will of the people. 
The  Venezuelan  people  are  prepared,  however,  once 
again  to  defend  their  democratic  and  revolutionary 
achievements.
Mr.  Henderson  (Dominica):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  people  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica, I would like to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session  and  to  wish  him  every 
success. We also express our appreciation and gratitude 
to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for 
the  able  manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the  sixty-
sixth session.
Venezuela needs a democratic opposition. Pluralism 
and  diversity  coexist  in  democracy.  And  peace  is  the 
only path for the homeland of Simón Bolívar. President 
Hugo  Chávez  Frías  is  guaranteeing  the  continuity  of 
our  sovereign  and  supportive  foreign  policy,  focused 
on  improving  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  unity, 
enhancing cooperation with the peoples of the South, and 
building  a  multicentric  and  multipolar  world,  without 
imperial hegemonies. Similarly, he is guaranteeing the 
continuity of a national policy based on social justice.
The  successes  of  the  Bolivarian  Revolution  are 
evident.  Venezuela  has  met  the  targets  set  by  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  before  2015.  The 
number  of  households  in  extreme  poverty  has  fallen 
dramatically,  from  21  per  cent  in  1998  to  7  per  cent 
in  2010.  Social  investment  in  my  country  is  among 
the  highest  in  the  world.  Venezuela  has  the  highest 
minimum  wage  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean. 
According  to  the  Gini  coefficient,  our  country  is  the 
most  egalitarian  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean. 
According  to  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  ranked  tenth  among  the 
best-fed peoples in the world. We are the country with 
the  fifth-highest  percentage  of  university  enrolment 
in  the  world.  Education  and  health  care  are  free.  All 
Venezuelans,  without  exception,  have  access  to  those 
rights.
Those  extraordinary  achievements  in  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights  have  been  attained  in  the 
context  of  a  participatory  democracy,  in  which  civil 
and political rights are fully respected, as never before 
in  our  country’s  history.  The  Venezuelan  people  have 
regained  their  sovereignty  and  self-determination.  A 
revolution  for  freedom,  justice  and  equality  is  under 
way. That is the Bolivarian revolution.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency Mr. Vince Henderson, head of the delegation 
of Dominica.
The 
session  of 
sixty-seventh 
the  General 
Assembly has convened at a time when we face myriad 
challenges  —  the  impact  of  climate  change,  civil 
conf licts, hunger and starvation, poverty, HIV/AIDS and 
chronic non-communicable diseases. Those challenges, 
however,  are  equally  matched  by  the  tremendous 
opportunities  created  by  the  rapid  advancement  in 
science and technology and the unprecedented level of 
international cooperation.
We  therefore  need  the  political  will  to  harness 
those  opportunities  for  the  benefit  of  our  peoples. 
That  would  necessarily  require  the  transformation  of 
multilateral  institutions,  such  as  the  United  Nations, 
including its organs and agencies, the World Bank and 
the International Monetary Fund, to ref lect equity and 
inclusion. Those changes must be supported by a shift 
in our systems of production and consumption and by a 
new economic system, built on the principles of fairness 
and differentiated treatment on the basis of the unique 
challenges of countries, especially the vulnerability of 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS).  I  am  confident 
that, with such an approach, we will be able to overcome 
those challenges in a functioning multilateral system.
The President returned to the Chair.
The  unsustainable  consumption  and  production 
systems  that  continue  to  deplete  the  world’s  resources 
and  that  simultaneously  contribute  to  global  warming 
remain a major threat to the survival of those of us who 
live  close  to  the  world’s  oceans.  The  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) was 
a commendable effort by the international community 
to  take  stock  of  the  human  impact  on  the  Earth’s 
resources  and  to  commit  to  reversing  the  present 
trend.  The  outcome  document,  entitled  “The  future 
we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), falls short of our 
expectations.  However,  it  remains  a  work  in  progress 
and presents a useful platform for the ongoing discussion 
of  multilateral  resolutions  to  the  growing  concern  of 
sustainable development. More important, the outcome 
12-52569
15
A/67/PV.21
document  is  indicative  of  what  the  international 
community  can  achieve  when  collective  energies  are 
harnessed to present an international response.
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  is  pleased  that 
Rio+20  reaffirmed  an  international  commitment  to 
support  small  island  developing  States.  We  especially 
welcome  the  agreement  to  convene  the  third  Global 
Conference  on  the  Sustainable  Development  of  SIDS 
in  2014  in  the  Pacific  region.  In  fact,  we  are  of  the 
view  that  the  third  Global  Conference  will  provide  an 
opportunity for the implementation of the outcomes of 
Rio+20,  the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the Barbados Programme of Action.
As  a  small  island  developing  State,  Dominica  is 
committed to the fundamental principle of environmental 
sustainability.  That  is  clearly  demonstrated  by  our 
approach  to  sustainable  development  as  the  “Nature 
Island”.  The  sustainable  use  of  our  natural  resources 
has  contributed  to  our  tourism  product,  while  at  the 
same time blessing our citizens with the most beautiful 
place on Earth to call home. Notwithstanding that, our 
great  vulnerability  continues  to  put  us  at  the  mercy 
of  countries  that  promote  and  employ  unsustainable 
practices.  The  challenges  include  an  international 
economic  system  dominated  by  the  strong  and  the 
powerful that pays little or no regard to the vulnerable. 
If  multilateralism  is  to  survive,  we  need  to  focus  on 
correcting  that  lopsided  system,  which  is  destined  to 
annihilate SIDS.
Dominica’s  very  vulnerability  to  the  effects  of 
global  warming  underscores  our  commitment  to  a 
multilateral  approach  aimed  at  combating  climate 
change.  The  impact  of  climate  change  continues  to 
manifest itself in a number of ways, resulting in greater 
challenges to the survival of SIDS. The failure to date 
to reach a legally binding outcome on climate change is 
a cause of grave concern. While the debate continues, 
the challenges to our islands increase.
We  are  encouraged,  however,  by  the  fact  that  the 
recently  concluded  climate  talks  in  Bangkok  prepared 
a  fertile  ground  for  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Doha  later  this 
year.  Nevertheless,  Dominica  continues  to  stress  the 
importance  of  extending  and  amending  the  Kyoto 
Protocol before it lapses. The timely creation of a road 
map for a new legally binding document must be treated 
as  a  matter  of  urgency.  We  look  forward  to  the  Doha 
talks, of which we have great expectations.
One  major  contributor  to  climate  change  is  the 
consumption  of  fossil  fuels  for  the  production  of 
electricity. The importation of fossil fuels also has the 
greatest impact on the economic vulnerability of many 
small  island  developing  States.  Addressing  energy 
issues is therefore central to responding to the challenges 
of climate change and sustainable development. Today, 
there  is  still  a  significant  portion  of  many  remote  and 
rural island communities that has little or no access to 
modern and affordable energy services.
The  low-carbon  economies  in  SIDS  therefore 
provide  an  opportunity  to  reduce  greenhouse-gas 
emissions,  while  decreasing  dependence  on  imported 
fossil  fuels.  By  generating  their  own  energy  from 
natural renewable sources, SIDS will be able to achieve 
energy  security.  The  savings  realized  from  avoiding 
the  cost  of  importing  fossil  fuels  could  be  used  for 
adaptation  and  developmental  needs.  For  that  and 
other  reasons,  the  SIDS  Sustainable  Energy  Initiative, 
known  as  SIDS  DOCK,  was  instituted.  The  Initiative 
currently provides a global platform for SIDS to pursue 
their renewable energy ambitions by building capacity 
and  by  providing  technical  support  to  member  States. 
The  Governments  of  Denmark  and  Japan,  the  United 
Nations Development Programme and the World Bank 
continue  to  play  a  significant  role  in  making  energy 
independence a reality for SIDS. The recent partnership 
with  the  Clinton  Foundation  has  given  new  hope  to  a 
number  of  islands  that  are  vigorously  pursuing  their 
renewable energy aspirations.
Dominica  has  the  honour  of  serving  as  Chair  of 
SIDS DOCK. My delegation, on its own behalf as well 
as  that  of  SIDS  DOCK,  fully  endorses  the  Barbados 
Declaration  on  Achieving  Sustainable  Energy  for  All 
in Small Island Developing States, signed by ministers 
and other heads of delegation of the Alliance of Small 
Island  States  at  the  ministerial  conference  held  in 
Bridgetown in May. The commitments made and targets 
set to increase the percentage of renewable energy and 
increase  energy  efficiency  in  energy  portfolios  are 
testimony to our region’s commitment to the Secretary-
General’s  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative.  We 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  launching  the 
initiative, which SIDS DOCK joined and is committed 
to actively supporting.
16 
12-52569
Dominica, the “Nature Island”, continues to pursue 
the  development  of  its  geothermal  resources.  We  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  the  recently  concluded  test-
drilling  in  the  Roseau  Valley  has  confirmed  that  our 
geothermal  resources  have  the  potential  to  supply  our 
domestic needs and provide an exportable surplus. That 
will allow us to move away from the importation of fossil 
fuel for the generation of electricity within the next five 
years, while also reducing the cost of electricity for our 
people. At the same time, the development of a power 
plant for export to the French territories of Guadeloupe 
and  Martinique  will  provide  a  source  of  revenue  for 
the  island.  Negotiations  are  ongoing  and  expected 
to  conclude  by  the  end  of  2012.  Work  is  expected  to 
commence on the first power plant in the first quarter 
of 2013. Dominica’s energy initiative has the potential 
to  transform  its  economy  and  to  improve  the  quality 
of life of its people. The Government of Dominica, as 
trustee of the island’s resources on behalf of its people, 
is  therefore  ensuring  that  it  manages  that  process 
responsibly.
We have sought and are receiving assistance from 
some of the most reputable consultants in the world. The 
support of the Clinton Climate Initiative has allowed us to 
navigate through the complex challenges of the project. 
We therefore wish to express our gratitude to President 
Bill Clinton for his continued support in that initiative. 
We anticipate that, by 2017, all of our electricity needs 
will be met by a combination of sources, namely, hydro 
and  geothermal.  By  2020  we  expect  to  be  exporting 
electricity  to  our  neighbouring  islands  via  submarine 
cables. That, coupled with our sustainable development 
practices, means that Dominica will go beyond carbon 
neutrality to being carbon-negative by the year 2020.
Like  Dominica,  many  SIDS  are  pursuing  national 
renewable  energy  initiatives,  and  more  than  20  SIDS 
have  made  pledges  under  the  Sustainable  Energy  for 
All  initiative.  However,  unsustainable  debt  and  the 
lack  of  technology  make  it  impossible  for  them  to 
achieve their goals. We therefore invite other developed 
countries  and  the  international  community  to  join  the 
Governments  of  Denmark  and  Japan  and  the  Clinton 
Climate  Initiative  in  the  SIDS  DOCK  partnership, 
and  the  Government  of  Norway  in  its  Energy  for  All 
initiative, in providing critical support to SIDS.
The global community should heed the prolonged, 
and  in  some  cases  recent,  cries  of  peoples  around  the 
world. The response should not be selective or be based 
on narrow national interests. Injustice anywhere and in 
A/67/PV.21
any  form  should  not  be  tolerated.  The  so-called  Arab 
Spring has been one expression of people’s discontent. 
The international community must support the wishes 
of people as they struggle to create their own democratic 
systems, driven by their aspirations.
The  recent  spate  of  attacks  on  United  States 
missions  and  personnel,  or  attacks  on  the  diplomatic 
facilities  of  any  country,  does  nothing  to  advance  the 
causes  of  those  who  may  be  marginalized  or  who  feel 
offended  by  other  democratic  systems.  Regardless  of 
what may have led to the protests, the Commonwealth 
of Dominica condemns those unjustified attacks, which 
resulted in the unfortunate loss of life of United States 
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and his colleagues.
While  we  are  heartened  by  the  attention  that  has 
been  given  to  the  recent  outcries  from  some  corners 
of  the  globe,  we  remain  concerned  that  in  our  part  of 
the  world  the  cries  of people  who  have been  suffering 
for decades have aroused less sympathy. The suffering 
of  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Republic  of  Haiti 
persists,  much  to  the  concern  of  Dominica  and  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM). We are grateful to 
those countries that have responded and to others that 
have supported and continue to support the rebuilding 
efforts in Haiti. However, we are still far from assisting 
the people of Haiti to reach a state of normalcy where 
they can enjoy the basic necessities of life. We therefore 
call upon the international community to heed the cry 
of Haiti and to provide support in the rebuilding efforts.
The Caribbean region also continues to witness the 
unheeded call for the discontinuation of the economic, 
financial and trade embargo on our brothers and sisters 
in the Republic of Cuba. We call upon the Government 
of the United States to allow the people of Cuba to be 
fully integrated into the global trading system, thereby 
enabling  them  to  improve  their  lives  and  allowing  the 
world  to  benefit  from  their  tremendous  contributions, 
especially in the area of science and technology.
The 
trade, 
international 
transfer  and  use  of 
conventional arms, weapons, munitions and ammunition 
continue  to  threaten  international  peace  and  security. 
Dominica,  like  its  sister  nations  in  CARICOM,  is  not 
immune  to  that  debilitating  phenomenon.  Our  region 
continues  to  be  affected  by  an  increase  in  gangs 
and  violent  criminal  activities  born  out  of  the  trade 
and  transfer  of  illicit  arms  and  drugs  throughout  the 
Caribbean  region,  from  North  to  South  America.  We 
are  therefore  perturbed  that,  despite  four  weeks  of 
12-52569
17
A/67/PV.21
rigorous  deliberations  and  intense  negotiations,  the 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty 
did not result in the finalization of the treaty. However, 
like  the  rest  of  our  CARICOM  colleagues,  we  believe 
that the 26 July text from the Chair of the Conference 
provides  a  blueprint  for  a  possible  final  document. 
As  leaders,  the  task  is  now  ours  to  finalize  a  legally 
binding  document  in  the  interests  of  the  protection  of 
our  people.Dominica  remains  optimistic  that  that  can 
be  achieved  during  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
realization of a robust arms trade treaty.
Dominica  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  applaud  the  role  and  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
in  combating  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons  in  the  global  community.  The  long-
term  socioeconomic  development  of  many  nations, 
particularly  SIDS  such  as  Dominica,  is  severely 
compromised  because  of  the  proliferation  of  small 
arms and light weapons in our region. Associated with 
that illicit trade is the trafficking of narcotics through 
the  Caribbean  region,  from  South  to  North  America, 
which has presented new challenges to the maintenance 
of  peace  and  security  in  our  region.  It  underscores 
the  urgent  need  for  a  legally  binding  international 
instrument  that  addresses  the  control  and  monitoring 
of  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  among  States  and 
non-State actors.
In  conclusion,  Dominica 
remains  committed 
to  collaborating  with  the  United  Nations  and  all  its 
agencies, as well as with all Member States, to strengthen 
the  mission  of  this  noble  body  that,  notwithstanding 
its  imperfections,  is  critical  to  maintaining  world 
peace and security. We reaffirm our confidence in the 
United Nations system as the ultimate negotiating and 
deliberative  body  for  addressing  the  major  challenges 
confronting the world.
May we all rise to the occasion and resolve to bring 
peace,  security  and  prosperity  to  every  corner  of  the 
globe.
Before I finish, Sir, I hope that, given that I am the 
last speaker, you will allow me the latitude to address 
a word of thanks to the interpreters and the rest of the 
United  Nations  staff  for  their  hard  work  over  the  past 
week.  We  know  that  their  task  has  not  been  easy,  and 
we appreciate their contribution.
May God bless the United Nations. May God bless 
us all.
18 
The  President: We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in 
the general debate.
Several representatives have requested to speak in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that  statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply 
are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  statement  and 
to  5  minutes  for  the  second  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  The  delegation  of  Pakistan 
would  like  to  exercise  its  right  of  reply  with  regard  to 
remarks made by India’s Minister for External Affairs 
this morning (see A/67/PV.19).
Let  me  begin  by  emphasizing  that  the  reference 
to  the  Jammu  and  Kashmir  dispute  in  the  statement 
by  the  President  of  Pakistan  (see  A/67/PV.7)  was  not 
unwarranted.  Let  me  also  make  it  absolutely  clear 
that Jammu and Kashmir is neither an integral part of 
India nor has it ever been. I will now quote the relevant 
excerpt from the President’s statement.
“Our principled position on territorial disputes 
remains  the  bedrock  of  our  foreign  policy.  We 
will  continue  to  support  the  rights  of  the  people 
of Jammu and Kashmir to peacefully choose their 
destiny  in  accordance  with  the  Security  Council’s 
long-standing  resolutions  on  this  matter.  Kashmir 
remains  a  symbol  of  the  failures,  rather  than  the 
strengths,  of  the  United  Nations  system.  We  feel 
that  a  resolution  of  these  issues  can  be  arrived  at 
only in an environment of cooperation.
“By  normalizing  trade  relations,  we  want  to 
create  a  regional  South  Asian  narrative.  Such  a 
narrative  will  provide  an  environment  that  will 
mutually benefit the countries of our region.”
The President of Pakistan said no more, no less.
Mr.  Sahraei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Today, 
a  Western  delegation  made  an  allegation  against  the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme.  The  same  accusation  was 
also made by a few other Western countries during the 
Assembly’s  general  debate.  In  exercising  our  right  of 
reply, I would like to make the following statement.
Like  the  other  parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  an  inalienable  right  to 
develop,  research,  produce  and  use  nuclear  energy 
for  peaceful  purposes  without  discrimination.  Iran  is 
firmly determined to exercise that right in full. At the 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
same  time,  we  are  fully  committed  to  our  obligations 
under  the  NPT.  Our  commitment  to  non-proliferation 
remains intact.
The nuclear activities of my country are and always 
have  been  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes.  The 
non-diversion  of  the  declared  nuclear  material  in  Iran 
has  been  repeatedly  confirmed  by  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  In  line  with  its 
obligations under its IAEA Safeguards Agreement, Iran 
fully cooperates with the Agency. All activities at our 
nuclear sites are under the IAEA’s 24-hour surveillance 
cameras, and the Agency’s resident inspectors regularly 
visit  the  sites  and  measure  and  seal  enriched-uranium 
containers.
The  IAEA  Director  General,  in  all  of  his  relevant 
reports,  including  his  latest  report  on  13  June,  has 
stated that
“the Agency continues to verify the non-diversion 
of declared nuclear material at the nuclear facilities 
and  LOFs  [location  outside  facilities]  declared  by 
Iran under its safeguards agreement”.
It is therefore evident that these politically motivated 
allegations  are  without  any  foundation.  The  objective 
behind such claims, which were made by a few Western 
countries that are either nuclear-weapon States or under 
the  nuclear  umbrella,  is  an  attempt  to  divert  attention 
from their own abysmal record on non-compliance with 
their nuclear disarmament obligations under the NPT.
Instead  of  making  unfounded  allegations  denying 
the  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  they 
should  comply  with  their  legal  obligations  under  the 
NPT,  in  particular  by  freezing  modernization  of  their 
nuclear arsenals, immediately withdrawing their nuclear 
weapons from other countries, refraining from nuclear-
weapon-sharing and from cooperating with non-parties 
to the NPT, and eliminating all their nuclear weapons.
Moreover, the unwarranted focus by those Western 
countries  on  Iran’s  peaceful  programme  and  their 
simultaneous  deadly  silence  on  the  nuclear  weapons 
and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  of  the  Zionist 
regime  is  entirely  hypocritical.  Iran’s  exclusively 
peaceful  nuclear  programme  is  not  a  threat.  The  only 
threat to regional and international peace and security 
is the Zionist regime, which has more than 200 nuclear 
warheads  and  is  the  only  non-party  to  the  NPT  in  the 
Middle  East.  There  is  no  greater  source  of  insecurity 
and instability in the Middle East and beyond than the 
Israeli regime, which tries to identify red lines for the 
peaceful  nuclear  activities  of  others,  when  it  itself, 
confident  in  its  great  patron,  has  crossed  every  red 
line  in  the  course  of  its  history  and  committed  every 
type of crime, from crimes of aggression to war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity,  even  as  it  continues  to 
threaten other countries.
That regime must accede to all treaties relating to 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  in  particular  the  NPT, 
without conditions or further delay, put all of its nuclear 
activities  under  the  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement  and  fully  comply  with  all  its  international 
obligations.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that, while Iran 
stands  ready  to  engage  in  a  serious  and  constructive 
negotiation with interested parties, based on justice and 
mutual respect and without preconditions, it will never 
compromise  on  its  inalienable  right  to  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  science  and  technology,  including  its 
inherent right to develop a national nuclear fuel cycle.
Mr. Kumar (India): I take the f loor in response to 
the gratuitous references by the delegation of Pakistan 
about the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, which is 
and has always been an integral part of India. It is ironic 
that  those  comments  were  made  by  the  representative 
of  a  country  that  persists  in  its  illegal  occupation  of  a 
part of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. Those 
references constitute a clear interference in the internal 
affairs of India. We reject them in their entirety.
Mr. Mehdiyev (Azerbaijan): I would like to speak 
in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  to  the  statement made 
by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Armenia  today 
at the 19th meeting, in the Assembly’s general debate.
It  is  clear  that  the  statement  of  the  Foreign 
Minister  of  Armenia  represents  yet  another  example 
of  utter  falsehood.  It  is  also  illustrative  of  Armenia’s 
uninterrupted attempts to create the wrong impression 
of  the  real  situation  on  the  ground  and  to  def lect  the 
attention  of  the  international  community  from  the 
urgent  need  to  address  the  main  problems  caused  the 
continuing  aggression  against  Azerbaijan  by  that 
Member  State.  However,  such  a  futile  effort  easily 
collapses, like a house of cards, against the background 
of  facts  and  testifies  to  a  diametrically  opposite 
situation.
By  trying  to  criticize  and  lecture  neighbouring 
countries,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Armenia  fell  into 
12-52569
19
A/67/PV.21
his  usual  forgetfulness.  Otherwise,  he  would  have 
recollected  that  his  country  unleashed  the  war  and 
perpetrated aggression against Azerbaijan, carried out 
ethnic  cleansing  and  committed  other  heinous  crimes 
against  Azerbaijan’s  civilian  population  in  the  course 
of  the  war.  Most  important,  he  passed  over  in  silence 
the fact that it was indeed Armenia that used military 
force  to  occupy  the  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  and  not 
the other way around.
the 
that  his  country  and 
It is curious that the Foreign Minister of Armenia 
believes 
international 
community  speak  in  one  language  regarding  the 
Daghlyq  Garabagh  issue  and  that  Armenia’s  position 
is  in  line  with  documents  adopted  by  international 
organizations.  Needless  to  say,  the  whole  foundation 
of  the  international  legal  order  will  collapse  if  that 
happens. The words of the Armenian Minister represent 
an  obvious  falsification  so  characteristic  of  Armenian 
high-ranking officials.
It  would  be  pertinent 
to  recall  Armenians’ 
persistent non-compliance with the relevant resolutions 
of the Security Council and General Assembly, which, 
inter  alia,  demanded  the  immediate,  complete  and 
unconditional  withdrawal  of  all  Armenian  forces 
from  all  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan.  The 
short  memory  of  Armenian  officials  also  extends 
to  numerous  documents  and  decisions  of  other 
international  organizations  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
occupation  of  Azerbaijani  lands.  The  most  recent  are 
the  final  documents  adopted  earlier  this  year  at  the 
summits  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO),  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation 
and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  which 
unequivocally  supported  the  position  of  Azerbaijan. 
It  should  be  particularly  noted  that  the  President  of 
Armenia refused to participate in the summits of NATO 
and  NAM  only  because  of  the  approach  they  took  in 
regard  to  the  conf lict  and  the  principles  to  be  applied 
for its resolution.
Another recent example includes the reaction of the 
international community to the so-called legal elections 
conducted by Armenia in July in the occupied Daghlyq 
Garabagh  region  of  Azerbaijan.  In  their  statement 
and  communications,  international  organizations  and 
individual  States  voiced  their  unequivocal  protests 
against 
the 
provocative action null and void.
the  so-called  elections  and  declared 
The statement of the Foreign Minister of Armenia 
contains  groundless  comments  on  the  military  budget 
increase  of  Azerbaijan.  Complaints  in  that  regard 
are  obviously  ridiculous,  as  they  are  voiced  by  the 
representative  of  an  aggressor  State  in  regard  to  the 
military  capability  of  its  victim.  At  the  same  time, 
it  is  well  known  that  the  annual  defence  spending  of 
Azerbaijan  remains  in  line  with  its  overall  budget 
increases,  that  Azerbaijan  continues  to  spend  a  much 
smaller percentage of its gross domestic product on its 
army than does Armenia, and that the size of the armed 
forces  of  Azerbaijan  is  proportional  to  its  population, 
territory and the length of its borders and remains less 
than  that  of  Armenia.  Indeed,  a  comparative  analysis 
shows  that  in  correlation  to  its  population,  territory, 
annual  budget  and  gross  domestic  product,  Armenia 
is the most militarized country of the South Caucasus 
in  terms  of  military  expenditures,  foreign  military 
assistance, military personnel and quantity of procured 
armaments.
The Foreign Minister of Armenia spent much of his 
statement conveying his country’s distorted perception 
of the case of Ramil Safarov, relating to an incident that 
took place during a NATO-sponsored training course in 
Budapest. I would like to recall that the detailed answer 
to the irresponsible speculations of the Armenian side 
in that regard is contained in our letter of 17 September 
2012, addressed to the Secretary-General and circulated 
as document A/66/905.
While  trying  to  introduce  that  case  as  allegedly 
the  manifestation  of  anti-Armenian  prejudices,  the 
Foreign  Minister  of  Armenia  disregards  the  fact  that, 
unlike  his  own  country,  Azerbaijan  has  preserved  its 
ethnic and cultural diversity to the present day and that 
many  Armenians  are  living  not  only  in  the  occupied 
Daghlyq  Garabagh  region,  but  also  in  the  capital  and 
other  major  cities  of  Azerbaijan.  On  the  contrary,  the 
international  community  has  repeatedly  expressed  its 
indignation  with  the  undisguised  promotion  by  the 
leadership  of  Armenia  of  the  odious  ideas  of  racial 
superiority,  ethnic  and  religious  incompatibility,  and 
hatred  towards  Azerbaijan  and  other  neighbouring 
nations.  The  relevant  United  Nations  bodies  and  other 
international  organizations  have  repeatedly  expressed 
their  serious  concerns  about  the  spirit  of  intolerance 
prevailing in Armenia and the discriminatory policies 
and  practices  pursued  in  that  country.  It  should  be 
pointed out that the same policies and practices are being 
implemented by Armenia in the occupied territories of 
Azerbaijan,  where  it  has  carried  out  ethnic  cleansing 
against all non-Armenians and where it has established 
the ethnically constructed subordinate separatist entity, 
20 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
which  is  ultimately  nothing  other  than  the  product  of 
aggression and racial discrimination.
The  responsibility  of  Armenia’s  political  and 
military leadership for the atrocious crimes committed 
during  the  war  has  been  well  attested  to  at  the 
international  level  and  even  admitted  to  by  Armenia’s 
high-ranking  officials.  The  most  shocking  revelation 
is  certainly  the  one  made  by  the  current  President  of 
Armenia,  Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan.  In  his  interview  with 
British  journalist  Thomas  de  Waal  of  15  December 
2000, in response to the question as to whether things 
could  have  happened  differently  and  whether  he  had 
any regrets about the deaths of thousands of people, the 
Armenian Head of State answered that he had absolutely 
no regrets, since such upheavals were necessary even if 
thousands had to die. The full transcript of the interview 
is available online on the Carnegie Endowment website. 
Those  who  are  interested  in  arriving  at  the  truth  may 
familiarize  themselves  with  that  piece  of  evidence, 
along  with  numerous  other  documents  that  totally 
disprove  what  we  heard  today  from  the  Minister  for 
Foreign of Affairs of Armenia.
Everything  I  have  mentioned  definitevely  dispels 
the  myths  of  Armenia  as  an  eternal  victim.  In  reality, 
by disregarding the resolutions of the Security Council 
and  the  General  Assembly,  by  continuing  to  illegally 
occupy  the  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  by  deliberately 
denying  the  right  of  more  than  1  million  Azerbaijani 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  to  return 
to  their  homes,  by  pursuing  a  racist  ideology  and  by 
misinterpreting  the  fundamental  norms  and  principles 
of international law, Armenia clearly demonstrates who 
is actually responsible for undermining regional peace, 
security and stability.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  I  apologize  for  taking 
the  f loor  at  this  late  hour.  It  was  not  my  intention. 
However, I must reply to the comments made just now 
by the representative of Azerbaijan.
The reply by the representative of Azerbaijan was 
based on even more lies; not a single word corresponded 
to  the  truth.  The  statement  made  at  the  19th  plenary 
meeting  earlier  today  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Armenia  highlighted  all 
those  huge —  to  put  it  mildly —  discrepancies.  I  will 
not  go  into  detail  and  explain  that  whatever  happened 
20  years  ago  was  the  expression  of  the  right  to  self-
determination  by  the  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh, 
and the fact that the realization of their absolutely legal 
constitutional right was met with hostilities, massacres 
and war by Azerbaijan against the peaceful population. 
Who  can  blame  Armenians  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
Republic for not wanting to live in the same country as 
their murderers?
Nothing that Azerbaijan says to the world from any 
rostrum can be considered factual. On the contrary, it is 
a constant barrage of lies, combined with anti-Armenian 
racist  rhetoric.  I  suppose  their  strategy  is  to  tell  such 
unbelievable lies and to repeat them so often that sooner 
or later people will get used to them. An oriental saying 
says, “No matter how many times you say ‘sweet dates’, 
you  still  will  not  feel  sweetness  in  your  mouth”.  That 
is  just  wishful  thinking.  What  can  one  expect  from 
a  country  whose  President  openly  declares  that  the 
Armenians  of  the  world  are  the  enemy  of  Azerbaijan? 
I believe that is what is known as xenophobia and it is 
punishable  by  law,  at  least  in  my  country  and  the  rest 
of  the  civilized  world  that  we  come  from  and  that  the 
United Nations was created to create and cherish.
Azerbaijan  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that 
boasts  of  its  astronomical  military  expenditures.  I 
remember  the  time  when  a  rising  defence  budget 
was  not  something  to  be  proud  of.  But  they  shout  out 
loudly  about  it  and  threaten  our  being  in  Nagorno 
Karabakh. Azerbaijan is a country where someone who 
has  killed  a  foreigner,  an  Armenian,  is  considered  a 
national  hero.  In  my  country  a  murderer  would  have 
received what is prescribed by law. The murderer of a 
sleeping person would have been branded as not only a 
murderer but a coward. No Armenian in his right mind 
would  live  in  Baku,  despite  the  many  examples  the 
representative  of  Azerbaijan  may  bring  of  Armenians 
living  in  Azerbaijan.  Even  the  world  chess  champion 
Gary  Kasparov  recently  said  that  he  will  never  go  to 
Baku until the Nagorno Karabakh issue is resolved and 
Azerbaijan halts the anti-Armenian hysteria.
Azerbaijan  uses  the  tactic  that  the  best  defence  is 
a  good  offence,  hoping  that  if  they  put  the  blame  on 
everybody else for what the world condemns them for, 
that  will  save  them.  However,  no  one  can  manipulate 
world  public  opinion,  not  even  in  oil-dollars-rich 
Azerbaijan.  Therefore  no  Azerbaijani,  and  especially 
no  Azerbaijani  official,  has  any  historical,  moral  or 
legal right to tell the people of Nagorno Karabakh how 
to live, where to live or how independent to be.
Mr. Desta (Eritrea): I take the f loor in exercise of 
the right of reply in connection with the statement made 
by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Djibouti  during  his  address  to  the  Assembly  at  the 
12-52569
21
A/67/PV.21
19th plenary meeting this morning. My delegation was 
surprised by the Minister’s statement about our country.
My delegation does not wish to dwell on the events 
of 2008, as we have exhaustively addressed the matter 
in  other  forums.  In  a  forward-looking  manner  my 
delegation  would  like  to  stress  the  following  points  to 
set the record straight.
First, Eritrea has always desired good-neighbourly 
relations  with  Djibouti,  based  on  mutual  respect  and 
economic cooperation.
Secondly, Djibouti bears responsibility for the two-
day skirmish of 2008.
Thirdly,  in  June  2010  the  Presidents  of  Eritrea 
and  Djibouti  signed  a  peace  agreement  entrusting  the 
Amir of the State of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani, to mediate the border dispute.
Fourthly,  the  issue  of  prisoners  of  war  is  part  and 
parcel of the agreement, and both sides agreed to address 
it. Regrettably, the issue is singled out as a point in the 
campaign against Eritrea in different forums, including 
in the Security Council. That raises a serious question 
about whether the other side is prepared to resolve the 
matter  in  accordance  with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
accord,  and  it  has  unnecessarily  prolonged  the  peace 
process.
Fifthly,  Eritrea  has  fully  fulfilled  its  obligations 
under  the  agreement  and  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions,  including  resolution  1862  (2009).  It  has 
withdrawn  its  troops  from  the  common  border,  which 
since then has been monitored by Qatari peacekeepers.
Sixthly,  Eritrea  stresses  the  ongoing  mediation 
by  the  Amir  of  Qatar  as  the  best  opportunity  for  both 
countries  to  resolve  the  outstanding  issues,  paving 
the  way  for  cooperative  and  normal  relations.  What 
remains now is for both Governments to engage in good 
faith  in  the  Amir  of  Qatar’s  mediation  facilitation.  It 
is important to refrain from engaging in inf lammatory 
statements  that  could  potentially  harm  the  ongoing 
mediation  process.  Eritrea  affirms  it  will  act  in  good 
faith  and  will  remain  fully  committed  to  the  peace 
process.
Let  me  conclude  by  commending  the  Amir  of 
Qatar for his mediation role. I also wish to pay tribute 
to the Qatari peacekeepers deployed along the common 
border between our two countries.
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  I  speak  in  response  to 
remarks made earlier by the representative of India. The 
disputed  status  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  established 
by  Security  Council  resolutions  and  agreed  upon  by 
both Pakistan and India. A characterization of Jammu 
and  Kashmir  or  any  part  of  its  territory  as  part  of 
India is therefore untenable. The people of Jammu and 
Kashmir have yet to exercise their inalienable right to 
self-determination.
Mr.  Mehdiyev  (Azerbaijan):  The  remarks  just 
made by the delegation of Armenia, full of distortions 
and  misinterpretations,  demonstrate  how  far  that 
Member  State  is  from  engaging  in  a  constructive 
search  for  peace  in  the  region.  In  fact,  the  delegation 
of  Armenia  has  introduced  nothing  new  and  has  once 
again abused its right to speak from the high rostrum of 
the General Assembly. The delegation of Armenia did 
not even want to take the trouble of listening carefully 
to  what  we  have  said,  preferring  instead  to  read  out  a 
text containing its set of standard falsifications.
As  a  result,  we  have  heard  irrelevant  and  out-of-
context  comments,  which  obviously  fail  to  respond 
to  our  demands.  Having  seen  no  reason  to  prolong 
discussion on the issue at this stage of our deliberations, 
we would like to express our confidence that Armenia’s 
destructive political agenda is fated never to be realized. 
Armenia  will  be  obliged  to  cease  its  provocative 
policy,  to  ensure  that  the  occupation  of  Azerbaijan’s 
territory is ended, to renounce its territorial claims on 
neighbouring nations and to establish civilized relations 
with all countries of the region.
Mr. Kumar (India): I take the f loor in exercise of 
the  right  of  reply  because,  regrettably,  the  delegation 
of  Pakistan  has  once  again  raised  the  issue  of  Jammu 
and  Kashmir,  which  is  an  integral  part  of  India.  The 
people of Jammu and Kashmir have peacefully chosen 
their destiny in accordance with democratic practices, 
and they continue to do so. We therefore reject in their 
entirety  the  untenable  comments  from  the  delegate  of 
Pakistan.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I am sorry for having to 
take the f loor for the second time. I really wonder how 
the memory of Azerbaijan’s delegation works.
In  1988, 
the  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh 
peacefully ask for independence from Azerbaijan; they 
are  attacked  by  Azerbaijan.  Armenians  organize  self-
defence;  Azerbaijan  unleashes  a  large-scale  war  from 
1992 to 1994. The people of Nagorno Karabakh stop the 
22 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
Azerbaijan  aggression  and  declare  the  independence 
of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  Republic.  Those  are  brief 
historical  facts  that  took  place  not  so  long  ago  and  it 
is  not  very  difficult  to  remember  those  basic  textbook 
facts and stop turning everything upside down.
The  only  gauge  for  measuring 
the  sincerity 
of  Azerbaijan’s  words  is  their  participation  in  the 
negotiations  of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Co-operation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and 
the responses to the documents on the settlement of the 
Nagorno Karabakh conf lict adopted in the frameworks 
of  the  OSCE  summit  held  in  2010  in  Astana  and  the 
ministerial conferences of Helsinki in 2008, Athens in 
2009,  Almaty  in  2010  and  Vilnius  in  2011.  Also,  the 
statements  of  the  Presidents  of  the  co-Chair  countries 
in  the  framework  of  the  Group  of  Eight  Summit  in 
L’Aquila  in  2009,  Muskoka  in  2010  and  Deauville  in 
2011 and during the Group of 20 Summit in Los Cabos 
in 2012 are proof of that.
Armenia’s position is in line with those documents. 
Armenia and the international community are speaking 
in one language with regard to the Nagorno Karabakh 
issue. It is time for Azerbaijan to listen to the voice of 
the world.
I  would  also  like  to  quote  another  statement  that 
was  delivered  in  the  Hall  at  the  20th  plenary  meeting 
today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belarus:
“Belarus  is  fully  convinced  that  any  attempt 
to  make  someone  do  something  against  their  will 
is doomed to fail. Are we not learning the lessons 
of  the  past?  After  all,  neither  weapons  nor  wealth 
constitute  the  greatest  source  of  power  on  Earth. 
That  power  stems  rather  from  the  spirit  of  self-
determination. If a nation has embarked on its own 
path  of  peaceful  and  progressive  development,  no 
then no external force is able to stop it in its tracks. 
Battles can be won against such a nation, but never 
wars.”
The  President: We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in 
the exercise of the right of reply.
I  will  now  offer  some  concluding  remarks  on  the 
general debate.
Statement by the President
The  President:  We  have  come  to  the  end  of  the 
general  debate  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  I  would  like  to  thank  all  speakers 
for  the  important  contributions  they  made.  I  would 
also  like  to  express  my  sincere  appreciation  to  the 
Vice-Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  for  their 
assistance and cooperation. I am enormously grateful to 
the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management for its support and understanding. I know 
I  was  not  the  easiest  person  to  handle  over  the  past 
few days, and I will try make up for that in the next 12 
months.
It  was  my  honour  to  welcome  a  number  of  new 
leaders to the General Assembly for the first time and 
to  hear  them  express  their  countries’  positions  and 
aspirations.  The  fact  that  at  this  session  we  heard  the 
views of more than 100 Heads of State or Government 
and  over  70  Deputy  Prime  Ministers  or  Ministers  for 
Foreign  Affairs  is  a  clear  indication  that  the  United 
Nations  remains,  in  the  words  of  the  Charter,  a 
centre  for  harmonizing  the  actions  of  nations.  It  also 
reaffirms once again the central position of the General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative  policymaking  and 
representative organ of the United Nations.
The  overarching  theme  I  chose  for  this  year’s 
session  was  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means”. Over the past week, we have heard thoughtful 
and  constructive  interventions  on  that  critical  topic. 
That  catalysed  fruitful  discourse  in  the  plenary  and 
at  numerous  side  events,  in  turn  stimulating  many 
bilateral consultations.
Some  speakers  offered  concrete  proposals  on 
how  the  mechanisms  that  are  in  place  can  be  better 
utilized.  Those  included  calls  to  increase  support  for 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts.  A  number  of 
interventions  recognized  the  growing  role  that  the 
African Union, the European Union and other regional 
organizations  are  playing  in  United  Nations  missions. 
Many  delegations  introduced  concepts  or  ideas  to  be 
incorporated  into  the  overall  efforts  to  revitalize  the 
General Assembly.
Numerous  addresses  emphasized  the  fact  that 
deep-seated structural causes often form the backdrop 
of the immediate political symptoms of disputes. They 
called  for  a  more  comprehensive  approach  to  conf lict 
prevention  and  resolution  that  would  encompass  in 
a  truly  holistic  way  both  short-term  and  long-term 
measures.
A  great  many  delegations  congratulated 
the 
Governments  of  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  for 
12-52569
23
A/67/PV.21
having  reached  agreements  on  security  issues,  border 
demarcation  and 
the  normalization  of  economic 
relations,  and  urged  them  to  resolve  the  outstanding 
issues.
We  heard  serious  concerns  expressed  from  the 
rostrum  about  the  world’s  increasing  geostrategic 
volatility  and  unpredictability.  A  great  number  of 
delegations  emphasized  the  fundamental  importance 
of  respecting  the  basic  tenets  of  international  law, 
including  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Member  States.  Strong  emphasis  was  placed  on  the 
principle of the sovereign equality of Member States as 
being the backbone of effective multilateralism.
Speaker after speaker reiterated their positions that 
establishing respect for the rule of law was essential to 
achieving  lasting  peace  in  the  aftermath  of  conf licts. 
That  would  engender  more  effective  protection  of 
human  rights  and  create  the  conditions  leading  to 
economic progress and development.
The  general  debate  brought  about  a  congruence 
of  views  on  the  fact  that  conf lict  prevention,  durable 
peace and security and sustainable development can be 
achieved  only  through  an  integrated  approach.  Many 
delegations addressed the consequences of the world’s 
economic crisis, linking them not only to the necessity 
of  increasing  poverty  reduction  campaigns,  but  also 
to  fulfilling 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The  emerging  consensus  is  that  efforts  must 
be intensified in order to fulfil the MDGs over the next 
three years.
A  great  many  speakers  stressed  the  need  to  begin 
the swift implementation of the outcomes of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
underlining  the  critical  role  that  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  has  to  play  in  moving  the  process 
forward. That includes setting out a list of sustainable 
development  goals  and  proposing  options  on  an 
effective financing strategy.
Improving  various  aspects  of  global  economic 
governance was also one of the most widely addressed 
topics.  The  enhancement  of  South-South  cooperation 
was  strongly  emphasized.  In  addition,  the  statements 
of  many  delegations  reinforced  the  view  that  the 
General  Assembly  should  play  a  more  prominent  role 
in discussions on this issue, underlining the importance 
of  holding  meetings  in  the  plenary  before  and  after 
important Group of 20 events. Concerns were also raised 
about inclusivity, accountability and transparency.
raised 
Numerous  delegations 
the  Palestinian 
statehood  issue.  There  was  resounding  support  for 
a  two-State  solution  that  would  take  into  account 
the  legitimate  concerns  of  Israelis  and  Palestinians, 
including viability and security. Many speakers called 
for  a  resumption  of  negotiations  that  would  lead  to  a 
comprehensive solution, underlining the importance for 
the international community to strengthen support for 
the peace process. Some called for the United Nations 
to play a more decisive role in that endeavour.
Many  Member  States  stressed  their  support  for 
democratic changes in a number of Arab countries. They 
also  expressed  deep  concerns  with  the  deteriorating 
security and human rights situation in Syria. There was 
unequivocal  encouragement  for  the  ongoing  efforts  of 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar 
Brahimi.
Considerable attention was also paid to the various 
aspects  of  the  nuclear  issue  and  the  proliferation  of 
weapons of mass destruction. A number of delegations 
stressed  the  legitimate  right  to  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  energy  and  technology  by  all  Member  States, 
while  others  emphasized  adherence  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
safeguards  mandated  by  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency as overriding concerns. In that context, 
we  heard  forceful  messages  that  the  very  survival  of 
nations may be at stake.
Speakers  also  responded  to  what  the  Secretary-
General called the perfect storm of vulnerability that is 
now sweeping across the Sahel. We heard their disquiet 
over  the  growing  threat  that  terrorism,  attempts  at 
unilateral  secession  and  transborder  organized  crime 
pose to regional stability and development efforts.
Terrorism in all its forms was strongly condemned. 
So were recent blasphemous insults to religious figures 
and  beliefs,  but  so,  too,  was  the  ensuing  violence, 
including the murder of the United States Ambassador 
to Libya a few weeks ago.
In  opening  the  general  debate,  I  highlighted  the 
enhanced role I would like the United Nations Alliance 
of  Civilizations  to  play  in  conf lict  prevention.  The 
importance of strengthening dialogue and understanding 
among cultures and faiths was a recurrent theme in the 
speeches.  The  substandard  state  of  religious  freedom 
in parts of the world was also highlighted as a growing 
concern.
24 
12-52569
A/67/PV.21
Member  States  expressed  cautious  optimism  that 
Somalia was moving in a positive direction, after so many 
failed starts. There were calls for the United Nations to 
redouble its efforts to secure peace in that country, as 
well  as  in  other  parts  of  that  continent,  including  the 
Great  Lakes  region.  Moreover,  considerable  attention 
was devoted to Africa’s development needs, with stress 
on the imperative to keep the topic high on the agenda 
of the General Assembly.
Many  delegations  raised  human  trafficking  and 
the  illicit  trade  in  drugs  and  small  arms  as  issues 
of  particular  concern.  Climate  change,  the  loss  of 
biodiversity  and  other  environmental  challenges  were 
also discussed.
Speaker  after  speaker  underlined  the  importance 
of  the  ongoing  efforts  at  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  Security  Council  reform. 
Emphasis  was  placed  on  improving  working  methods, 
with  several  delegations  stressing  the  need  for  greater 
transparency and cooperation with other bodies in the 
United  Nations  system  as  a  critical  issue.  A  number 
of  delegations  presented  their  views  on  improving 
the  human  rights  treaty  bodies  system.  Speakers  also 
underscored  the  importance  of  ensuring  equal  rights 
and opportunities for women. Other important matters 
were also raised, such as the promotion of the rights of 
indigenous peoples and of persons with disabilities.
When  I  opened  the  debate,  on  25  September,  I 
called on Member States to have faith in our ability to 
come together in the full understanding of our common 
destiny, so that our Assembly would go down in history 
as  an  Assembly  of  peace.  In  reviewing  the  many 
statements that have been made, I have been struck by 
how  much  common  ground  exists  on  a  wide  range  of 
issues.  Obviously,  significant  differences  of  opinion 
remain to be overcome. Nevertheless, I believe there is 
room for optimism.
World  leaders  have  given  us  strategic  guidance 
on  how  to  move  forward  in  the  implementation  of  the 
agenda of the sixty-seventh session. In the time ahead, 
I intend to continue consultations with Member States, 
the Main Committees and regional and informal groups 
on the proposed programme of work.
Let  us  now  dedicate  ourselves  to  the  hard  work 
ahead,  which  begins  in  earnest  as  early  as  tomorrow. 
Let us try to be more transparent and efficient in how 
we conduct our affairs, making the best use of our time 
and  resources  to  advance  common  objectives.  Let  us 
engage  with  a  readiness  to  compromise  and  try  hard 
to  strengthen  trust  in  each  other,  and  in  so  doing help 
to  fulfil  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  193  States 
Members of the United Nations.
I  believe  that  now  we  truly  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
8?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 8.35 p.m.
12-52569
25
