United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
4th plenary meeting
A/67/PV.4
Ofﬁ cial Records
Monday, 24 September 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
President: Mr. Jeremić  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the 
National and International Levels
Agenda item 83 (continued)
The rule of law at the national and 
international levels
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Eveline  Widmer-
Schlumpf, President of the Swiss Confederation.
President  Widmer-Schlumpf  (spoke  in  French): 
As  this  is  the  first  time  I  am  taking  the  f loor,  I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election.  On  behalf  of 
Switzerland,  I  would  like  to  thank  you  for  organizing 
this  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National and International Levels. 
The rule of law is a basic principle that must be at the 
root of all our actions and endeavours to achieve lasting 
peace  and  prevent  conf lict.  It  is  also  a  precondition 
for  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights.  Preserving  the 
rule  of  law  requires  constant  effort  from  which  no 
one  is  exempt.  No  State  or  institution,  however  well-
developed,  can  take  it  for  granted.  Quite  the  contrary, 
the rule of law needs constant care. We are here today 
to  actively  ref lect  on  how  we  want  and  are  able  to 
strengthen the rule of law. Above all, however, we are 
also here to ensure that our thoughts and commitments 
are  put  into  concrete  action.  I  wish  to  highlight  four 
areas in which it seems particularly vital that we take 
common action.
First,  in  order  to  bring  about  what  the  Secretary-
General has called the “age of accountability”, I would 
like  to  underline  the  fundamental  role  of  the  fight 
against impunity and transitional justice. That is why 
Switzerland  is  committed  to  working  with  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  best 
practices  in  the  field.  Transitional  justice  is  a  crucial 
instrument  for  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  in  the 
context of massive human rights violations. The truth 
about  violations,  the  adjudication  of  perpetrators, 
reparations  for  victims  and  the  reform  of  institutions 
are  indispensable  to  achieving  lasting  reconciliation 
and avoiding the recurrence of atrocities. 
Words  alone  are  not  enough;  we  must  also  be 
ready  to  act  decisively  to  ensure  that  perpetrators 
be  held  accountable.  That  is  why  Switzerland  calls 
on  the  Security  Council  to  refer  the  situation  in  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court  so  that  the  Court  can  investigate  crimes  under 
its jurisdiction that may have been committed by any 
party to the conf lict. 
Secondly,  we  must  find  a  way  to  strengthen 
an  area  of  the  law  that  is  particularly  important  to 
Switzerland  —  international  humanitarian  law,  or 
the law of armed conf lict. At last year’s International 
Conference  of  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent,  the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations expressed his 
appreciation for Switzerland’s commitment to exploring 
and  identifying  concrete  means  of  strengthening  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-51943 (E)
*1251943*
A/67/PV.4
application  of  international  humanitarian  law  and 
reinforcing  dialogue  on  international  humanitarian 
law issues among States and other interested actors, in 
cooperation  with  the  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross.  Switzerland  is  greatly  encouraged  by  the 
many  statements  of  support  it  has  received  and  will 
pursue its efforts to strengthen respect for international 
humanitarian law.
Thirdly, we believe that the rule of law should also 
apply  to  international  organizations,  particularly  the 
United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  one  of  Switzerland’s 
highest  priorities  is  ensuring  that  United  Nations 
procedures  are  increasingly  credible,  legitimate  and 
effective.  In  our  view,  this  means  that  all  United 
Nations organs must comply with the principles of the 
rule of law. That is why Switzerland remains committed 
to promoting the establishment of fair and transparent 
procedures  within  the  Organization.  It  is  also  why  we 
have  argued  for  improving  the  working  methods  of 
the  Security  Council  and  for  greater  respect  for  the 
principles  of  due  process  in  the  Council’s  sanctions 
procedures.  Only  an  organization  that  upholds  the 
highest  standards  itself  can  be  credible  in  promoting 
those standards elsewhere.
Finally, it is time to recognize the fundamental role 
played  by  the  rule  of  law  in  the  area  of  development. 
No society can prosper if its members lack confidence 
in  the  law  or  the  knowledge  that  it  will  be  enforced. 
This  is  especially  true  of  societies  that  are  emerging 
from  armed  conf lict  or  where  there  have  been  gross 
violations of human rights. In that context, Switzerland 
emphasizes  the  importance  of  coherent  action  on  the 
part of the United Nations in the area of the rule of law. 
We want international aid designed to support national 
efforts to reinforce the rule of law to be more effective, 
coordinated  and  coherent.  In  particular,  transitional 
justice  mechanisms  must  be  better  coordinated  with 
strategies  aimed  at  strengthening  the  rule  of  law.  We 
also  need  to  improve  the  capacities  of  Member  States 
and  promote  the  exchange  of  best  practices  among 
them.  This  will  help  us  to  strengthen  our  common 
commitment,  while  acknowledging  that  there  is  no 
single approach to promoting the rule of law.
As  we  can  see,  there  is  still  much  to  be  done. 
While  it  is  certainly  important  to  reaffirm  our  shared 
commitment  to  supporting  the  rule  of  law,  our  focus 
must  now  be  on  how  to  translate  that  commitment 
into  concrete  action,  both  at  home  and  in  cooperation 
with  other  countries.  The  individual  and  collective 
pledges  made  today  by  so  many  States  demonstrate 
that we all have the power to change things. Resolution 
67/1,    adopted  today,  is  the  first  of  its  kind  for  the 
international  community.  We  look  forward  to  seeing 
our  commitments  put  into  practice  and  to  measuring 
the  impact  of  our  joint  efforts  in  building  a  more  just 
and  secure  world  for  all,  based  on  the  rule  of  law. We 
hope  that  this  High-level  Meeting  will  be  a  starting 
point in our efforts to fully implement the principle of 
the rule of law.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez 
Molina, President of the Republic of Guatemala.
President  Pérez  Molina  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  am 
pleased to participate in this High-level Meeting on the 
rule  of  law.  While  the  topic  is  enormously  important, 
the  time  available  allows  us  only  a  few  comments.  I 
should like to use those few minutes to describe how the 
State of Guatemala and the United Nations have joined 
forces to strengthen the rule of law in my country.
I  am  referring  to  the  creation  of  the  International 
Commission against Impunity in Guatemala, known as 
CICIG, a one-of-a-kind arrangement that, while born of 
our  domestic  administrative  and  juridical  institutions, 
grants to the Secretary-General the power to designate 
its Commissioner, and grants to the Commissioner the 
right  to  recruit  the  international  and  national  staff  of 
the  Commission.  The  Commission,  which  is  financed 
partially with contributions from the international donor 
community,  was  conceived  as  an  interim  arrangement 
whose  main  purpose  was  to  strengthen  the  national 
institutions  charged  with  criminal  prosecution,  law 
enforcement and the administration of justice. While the 
agreement  signed  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Government  of  Guatemala  allows  the  Commission  to 
act in certain instances as a complementary prosecutor 
in  parallel  with  the  work  of  the  Public  Prosecutor,  its 
main function is to strengthen our security and justice 
systems  through  technical  assistance,  training  and 
support.
While 
its  nature 
the  Commission  by 
is 
independent — which is its chief strength — it should 
be pointed out that this independence was deliberately 
bestowed on it by the State of Guatemala to ensure its 
ability to fulfil its mandate. Up to now, the Commission 
has  helped  us  to  resolve  various  paradigmatic  cases 
relating to transnational organized crime and bring the 
perpetrators  of  illicit  activities  to  justice.  In  addition, 
it has transferred capacities to the office of our Public 
2 
12-51943
Prosecutor,  and  worked  closely  with  our  judicial  and 
legislative organs in adapting the country’s legislation 
and  standards  in  order  to  strengthen  the  security  and 
justice  sectors.  As  a  important  by-product  of  this 
effort,  the  Public  Prosecutor  and  the  Ministry  of  the 
Interior  have  worked  closely  in  the  areas  of  criminal 
investigation and prosecution.
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
In  conclusion,  an  example  of  close  cooperation 
among  our  State  institutions  was  offered  in  a  meeting 
held in this same building barely two weeks ago, when 
the  presidents  of  the  judicial  and  legislative  organs 
and  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala, 
together  with  the  Commissioner  of  the  CICIG,  the 
Public  Prosecutor  and  the  Ministers  of  the  Interior 
and  of  Foreign  Affairs,  came  together  to  affirm  the 
commitment and programme of work of the Commission 
for the coming year, and to prepare the groundwork for 
a possible two-year extension. We therefore believe that 
Guatemala, with the help of the United Nations, has a 
success story to present in the area of strengthening the 
rule of law.
I  would  be  remiss  in  not  thanking  Mexico  and 
Denmark  for  their  outstanding  roles  as  facilitators  in 
guiding our efforts towards the high-level Declaration 
(resolution 67/1), adopted this morning, which we fully 
support.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Narayan Kaji Shrestha 
“Prakash”,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic  of 
Nepal.
Mr.  Shrestha  (Nepal):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
express its sincere appreciation to the President of the 
General Assembly for organizing this important High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International Levels. I hope that the Declaration that we 
adopted today (resolution 67/1) will be able to advance 
our  commitment  and  responsibility  for  upholding  the 
hopes and aspirations of billions of people yearning for 
a more just, equitable, inclusive and prosperous world.
The  concept  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  is  indelibly 
linked to democracy and fundamental freedoms, evolved 
over the course of the historical development of human 
society in its struggle against feudalism and autocracy. 
The  rule  of  law  is  important  for  the  protection  of  the 
rights of individual citizens in relation to the State and 
A/67/PV.4
members  of  one  society  in  relation  to  those  of  others, 
and for implementing a sound framework of inter-State 
relationships in the globalized world. More important is 
that the rule of law should prepare the basis for human 
society to proceed towards the realm of freedom, ending 
all  forms  of  exploitation  of  men  by  men.  We  firmly 
believe that ensuring the rule of law at the international 
level has as much importance as it does at the national 
level because it provides essential tools and principles 
for peaceful coexistence and cooperation among States.
The  rule  of  law,  however,  should  not  be  used  as 
a  cover  for  domination  of  one  country  by  another. 
Practising  a  double  standard  in  its  application  should 
be avoided. When we endeavour to establish the rule of 
law at the international level, it is extremely important 
to  create  a  level  playing  field  where  all  States  can 
participate  in  an  equitable  manner.  The  accumulation 
of wealth amidst despicable poverty and an absence of 
resources at the cost of the very existence of our planet 
cannot be in line with the rule of law.
Nepal believes that the United Nations is the most 
well-placed  and  legitimate  multilateral  institution  to 
promote the rule of law at the national and international 
levels.  Having  been  established  in  principle  and 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
international law and the promotion of multilateralism 
in handling all international issues of common concerns 
play a pivotal role in the promotion of the rule of law in 
a plural context.
it 
to  make 
Nepal places high importance on the revitalization 
of 
the  General  Assembly 
the  most 
legitimate and competent organ for the development of 
international  norms,  standards  and  legal  instruments. 
Nepal remains committed to promoting the rule of law 
at  the  international  level  by  adhering  to  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  fulfilling  its  obligations 
emanating from international treaty bodies to which it 
is a party. 
The  rule  of  law  at  the  national  level  is  more 
important for countries emerging from conf lict, where 
the  strengthening  of  administrative  law  enforcement, 
judicial institutions and other governance mechanisms 
must  be  accorded  top  priority.  An  enhanced  level  of 
international  support  under  the  aegis  of  the  United 
Nations  would  help  such  countries  in  grappling  with 
the  establishment  of  an  environment  conducive  to 
encouraging  and  ensuring  the  rule  of  law.  National 
ownership and capacity-building need to be at the core 
of  our  efforts  as  we  seek  to  establish  and  sustain  the 
12-51943
3
A/67/PV.4
necessary  legal  and  institutional  infrastructures.  The 
rule  of  law  must  seek  to  promote  inclusive,  just  and 
equitable societies if we are to address the root causes 
of conf lict, such as poverty, exclusion, marginalization 
and  deprivation  in  the  political,  economic  and  social 
spheres.
Nepal  is  committed  to  strengthening  the  rule 
of  law  at  the  national  level  as  part  of  its  historic 
transformational  process.  In  fact,  the  historic  struggle 
of  all  the  Nepalese  people,  entailing  the  sacrifice  of 
thousands of lives, was for the purpose of establishing 
the  rule  of  law  along  with  equity  and  justice.  Thus, 
Nepal  is  committed  to  ensuring  the  rule  of  law,  the 
promotion and protection of human rights, and ending 
impunity.
The provisions of the Comprehensive Peace Accord 
signed  in  2006,  which  was  a  key  turning  point  in  our 
home-grown peace process, and the interim Constitution, 
which is a transitional justice mechanism necessary to 
take the peace process to its logical conclusion, were the 
outcomes  of  broad  consultations  among  stakeholders. 
They meet the national and international requirements 
for durable peace, justice and reconciliation in a holistic 
manner. I hope that the international community, which 
is  very  supportive  of  our  peace  process,  understands 
the sensitivity of that process and our main task to end 
the  conf lict  forever.  Nepal  has  ratified  major  human 
rights  instruments,  including  seven  out  of  nine  core 
human  rights  instruments,  in  recent  years.  A  number 
of initiatives have been taken to reform governance and 
establish the rule of law.
In Nepal, the National Human Rights Commission 
is  a  designated  constitutional  body  working  as  a 
warden  of  human  rights  protection  and  promotion. 
The  capacity  of  the  institution  is  being  built  as  a 
real  custodian  of  human  rights  for  all  the  people.  A 
mechanism  for  effective  adjudication  of  the  decisions 
and  recommendations  of  the  National  Human  Rights 
Commission and judgements of the Supreme Court have 
been  established  at  the  Office  of  the  Prime  Minister 
and Council of Ministers.
Reforms  in  legal  aid,  judicial  reform,  reforms 
in  police  laws,  and  a  number  of  other  reforms 
and  amendments  to  legislation  that  were  deemed 
discriminatory have come into effect. Other important 
initiatives,  started  with  earnest  objectives,  are  under 
way.  For  least  developed  countries  emerging  from 
conf lict,  an  enhanced  level  of  support  with  adequate 
resources,  know-how  and  technical  capacity-building 
are  needed  in  a  coordinated  and  coherent  manner  to 
strengthen the rule of law.
The 
international  community  should  deliver 
effective  support  measures 
to  promote  national 
ownership  and  capacity-building  for  those  countries, 
for  the  advancement  of  the  rule  of  law.  I  also  call 
for  adherence  to  multilateralism  and  respect  for  the 
guiding principles and standards of international law at 
the international level.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency Mr. Miroslav  Lajčák, 
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Slovak Republic.
Mr.  Lajčák  (Slovakia):  It  is  a  distinct  honour  and 
pleasure  for  me  to  address  the  Assembly  at  the  outset 
of  its  sixty-seventh  session.  This  High-level  Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels  provides  us  with  an  excellent  opportunity  to 
share  our  views  and  experiences  on  the  rule  of  law, 
as  a  core  principle  of  governance  that  ensures  justice 
and fairness, which are values essential to humankind 
today  and  in  the  future.  Slovakia  fully  subscribes  to 
the statement delivered by the observer of the European 
Union earlier today.
The foreign policy of Slovakia is based on respect 
for  core  democratic  values,  international  law  and 
effective  multilateralism.  We  therefore  welcome  and 
support the convening of this meeting on the rule of law. 
This topic is even more important in being based on the 
presumption  of  governance  in  which  all  stakeholders, 
persons,  public  and  private  institutions  and  entities, 
and  States 
laws 
publicly  promulgated,  equally  enforced,  independently 
adjudicated,  and  consistent  with  international  norms 
and  principles.  At  the  international  level,  it  is  of  the 
utmost importance to ensure the equality of States, full 
compliance of their actions with international law, and 
their  responsibility  to  individuals  on  their  territories 
and under their sovereignty. 
themselves  are  accountable 
to 
On the other side, at the national level, the rule of 
law is a key principle that interacts with society at every 
level,  guarantees  the  protection  of  human  rights  and 
the fair resolution of disputes between individuals, and 
provides legitimate tools of recourse in case of abuses 
of power. Slovakia is fully committed to respecting the 
general legal principles enshrined in the United Nations 
Charter,  including  sovereign  equality,  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes  and  refraining 
4 
12-51943
from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  against  the  territorial 
integrity  or  political  independence  of  any  State.  It  is 
also committed to fulfilling its obligations arising from 
various international instruments. 
legal 
remains 
framework 
Ensuring  national  implementation  of  the  existing 
international 
today’s 
challenge.  States  are  facing  different  obstacles  in 
ensuring that implementation at the national level, thus 
contributing to non-compliance with their international 
obligations.  Therefore,  we  commend  the  readiness  of 
the Secretary-General to provide an integrated response 
to requests of States for assistance in that area.
Furthermore,  an  eminent  part  of  the  principle  of 
the  rule  of  law  is  to  ensure  the  existence  of  adequate 
adjudicative  mechanisms  whereby  States  can  make 
their claims in case of disagreement. In that regard, any 
international  dispute  among  States  should  be  resolved 
by  means  of  peaceful  settlement.  The  key  role  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  should  be  strengthened 
through  acceptance  of  its  compulsory  jurisdiction 
by  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Court’s 
in  contentious  cases  and 
advisory proceedings contributes to the development of 
international law and the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  Slovakia  strongly  supports  the 
application of that principle in conf lict and post-conf lict 
situations,  where  the  rule  of  law  is  indispensable 
both  to  the  restoration  and  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and  stability  and  to  the  establishment  of  integral 
governmental  systems  and  well-functioning  public 
institutions,  including  in  the  spheres  of  justice  and 
security. 
jurisprudence 
While  addressing  the  topic  of  the  rule  of  law,  we 
cannot forget to stress the importance of strengthening 
the  international  human  rights  legal  framework.  In 
particular,  the  most  vulnerable  among  us  deserve 
our  attention.  Slovakia,  as  a  strong  promoter  of 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  was  one  of  the  main 
initiators of the adoption of the third Optional Protocol 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  a 
communications  procedure,  which  was  opened  for 
signature  in  February  this  year.  That  Protocol  not 
only  represents  a  new  juridical  instrument  that  will 
strengthen and broaden the implementation, recognition 
and  representation  of  the  rights  of  the  child,  but  also 
constitutes  a  new  remedy  for  children  to  invoke  their 
rights.  It  will  provide  individual  children  with  the 
opportunity  to  submit  complaints  on  the  violation  of 
A/67/PV.4
their rights to the Committee on the Rights of the Child 
after  the  exhaustion  of  local  remedies,  or  directly, 
when national mechanisms for such complaints are not 
in  place  or  inefficient.  We  call  on  all  United  Nations 
Member States to become parties to the Protocol.
In that regard, I would like to report that Slovakia 
has joined other States that have submitted their national 
pledges with the aim of strengthening their support of 
the rule of law. Slovakia undertakes to ratify by the end 
of 2013 the Optional Protocol of the Convention on the 
Rights  of  the  Child  on  a  communications  procedure 
and  the  Council  of  Europe  Convention  on  preventing 
and  combating  violence  against  women  and  domestic 
violence. In addition, Slovakia will strengthen its legal 
and  institutional  framework  in  order  to  recognize 
women’s  right  to  be  free  from  all  forms  of  violence 
and  discrimination,  in  compliance  with  international 
human 
fully 
supports  the  fight  to  end  impunity  for  perpetrators  of 
the  most  serious  crimes  under  international  law,  such 
as genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. 
law.  Furthermore,  Slovakia 
rights 
Our everyday life confirms that abuses of law occur 
both at the national and international levels. Those cases 
very often arise at the expense of justice. I wish to raise 
a question. Has the time not yet come to focus our joint 
efforts  on  the  further  enhancement  of  the  principle  of 
the rule of justice, since it forms an equal and indivisible 
part  of  the  rule  of  law?  Our  common  ambition  for  the 
future  is  not  only  the  pragmatic  application  of  the 
rule  of  law  in  individual  cases  but  more  importantly 
strategic  compliance  with  that  principle,  which  goes 
hand  in  hand  with  the  principle  of  the  rule  of  justice. 
Slovakia is prepared to contribute actively to effective 
discussion in that regard. 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to Her Royal Highness Princess Bajrakitiyabha 
Mahidol of the Kingdom of Thailand.
Princess  Bajrakitiyabha  Mahidol  (Thailand):  I 
have the honour to speak on behalf of the 10 nations of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). 
Due  to  time  constraints,  the  full  statement  is  being 
distributed.
With  the  entry  into  force  of  the  ASEAN  Charter 
in  2008,  ASEAN  is  now  becoming  a  rules-based, 
people-centred  community.  The  Charter  clearly 
expresses  the  group’s  firm  commitment  to  enhancing 
the  rule  of  law,  good  governance,  democracy  and 
constitutional  government.  Adherence  to  the  rule  of 
12-51943
5
A/67/PV.4
law is a core principle under the Charter that binds all 
ASEAN  member  States.  ASEAN  leaders  recognize 
the  crucial  role  of  the  rule  of  law  in  ensuring  justice, 
equality,  stability  and  sustainable  prosperity,  and,  at 
the  international  level,  respect  for  the  fundamental 
principles  of  international  law,  including  that  of  the 
sovereign equality of States.
ASEAN  countries  reiterate  their  commitment  to 
implementing  their  obligations  under  international 
treaties  to  which  they  are  party.  The  institutional  and 
legal  framework  of  ASEAN  has  been  strengthened 
through  the  adoption  of  a  number  of  legal  documents 
and mechanisms. ASEAN strengthened its cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  through  the  adoption  of  the 
Joint  Declaration  on  Comprehensive  Partnership 
between ASEAN and the United Nations in 2011, aimed 
at  expanding  cooperation  in  areas  including  human 
rights,  good  governance,  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law  through  consultation,  information-sharing  and 
capacity-building.
I  shall  now  deliver  the  following  Thai  national 
statement. My delegation fully supports the convening 
of  this  High-level  Meeting,  which  demonstrates  the 
international  community’s  commitment  to  promoting 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  major  role  that  the  United 
Nations plays on this important subject. For Thailand, 
the rule of law is an indispensable foundation of a more 
peaceful,  prosperous  and  just  world  as  it  provides  an 
essential framework for our societies, domestically and 
internationally.
The  Constitution  of  Thailand  provides  that  the 
human  dignity,  rights  and  liberties,  as  well  as  the 
equality,  of  the  people  shall  be  protected  and  that 
they  are  entitled  to  equal  protection  before  the  law, 
irrespective  of  race,  gender  or  religion.  In  2011,  the 
Thai Government set up an Independent National Rule 
of  Law  Commission  to  ensure  that  all  State  organs 
perform their duties based on the rule of law.
In  addition,  Thailand  reaffirms  the  importance  of 
mainstreaming  gender  sensitivity  and  a  rights-based 
approach into the criminal justice system. In too many 
societies,  women  are  subject  to  discrimination,  both 
overt and subtle. That is why we believe it is important 
to  integrate  such  an  approach  into  criminal  justice 
systems.
Two  years  ago,  we  launched  the  United  Nations 
Rules  for  the  Treatment  of  Women  Prisoners  and 
Non-custodial  Measures  for  Women  Offenders,  or  the 
Bangkok  Rules.  Thailand  is  determined  to  implement 
those  rules  in  correctional  facilities  throughout  the 
country. We hope to share our best practices with other 
countries  for  the  benefit  of  female  inmates  around 
the  world.  We  are  also  determined  to  implement  the 
updated  Model  Strategies  and  Practical  Measures  on 
the Elimination of Violence against Women in the Field 
of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.
At  the  international  level,  Thailand  is  firmly 
committed  to  complying  with  all  treaties  to  which  it 
is  a  party,  especially  with  respect  to  the  seven  major 
international human rights treaties.
Thailand recognizes the rule of law as an essential 
element in addressing issues of global concern such as 
corruption,  transnational  organized  crime,  terrorism, 
drug  trafficking  and  trafficking  in  persons.  We  also 
attach  importance  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
the rights of the child and access to effective remedies 
based  on  the  rule  of  law.  I  am  therefore  pleased  to 
report  that,  at  the  treaty  event  to  be  held  tomorrow, 
Thailand  will  sign  and  ratify  the  Optional  Protocol 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  a 
communications procedure.
Addressing the link between crime and development 
is  important  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  Crime 
hinders sustainable development, but development can 
help reduce crime. Sustainable alternative development 
is  one  example:  strengthening  community  capacity  to 
develop  alternative,  legitimate  means  of  income  has 
helped  reduce  opium  cultivation.  The  rule  of  law  and 
sustainable  socio-economic  development  are  thus  two 
forces that work together for the betterment of society.
In  that  connection,  Thailand  invites  all  Member 
States  to  consider  supporting  the  General  Assembly 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Strengthening  the  rule  of 
law  and  the  reform  of  criminal  justice  institutions, 
particularly  in  the  areas  related  to  the  United  Nations 
system-wide  approach 
transnational 
organized crime and drug trafficking”. That will send 
a clear message to the effect that the robust rule of law 
is  needed  to  rid  the  world  of  crime  while  promoting 
sustainable development and peace.
fighting 
to 
Strengthening  the  rule  of  law  is  our  common 
responsibility.  Let  us  all  work  to  fulfil  that  goal 
by  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international levels under the United Nations umbrella 
to bring about a just world.
6 
12-51943
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Jean Asselborn, Deputy 
Prime Minister of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Asselborn  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
We  are  gathered  here  today  for  an  event  whose 
importance  cannot  be  overestimated.  The  High-level 
Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at 
the National and International Levels is indeed the first 
of its kind, and we are grateful to the Secretary-General 
for having launched this important initiative.
As  the  Secretary-General  points  out  in  paragraph 
1 of his report (A/66/749) on strengthening the rule of 
law, in the face of the innumerable challenges that our 
world  is  confronted  with  today,  “robust  principles  are 
needed to underpin the management of our future”.
In order to provide the broadest possible foundation, 
such  robust  principles  must  overcome  our  ideological, 
cultural  and  confessional  divides.  The  rule  of  law 
takes a central place in this approach; it is understood 
as  a  principle  of  governance  in  which  all  persons  and 
institutions,  including  the  State  itself,  are  accountable 
to laws that are consistent with human rights.
The  rule  of  law  applies  to  both  the  national  level 
and the international level. Those two levels are not in 
contradiction;  they  complement  each  other.  The  State 
remains the cornerstone of that system, which is why it 
bears a particular responsibility for the implementation 
of  the  rule  of  law.  At  the  same  time,  the  principle  of 
the  rule  of  law  predicates  the  peaceful  coexistence  of 
nations, and it is thus only natural that this forum — the 
United Nations — should be the platform for giving the 
necessary impetus to strengthening the rule of law.
For  the  sake  of  coherence,  our  Organization  must 
first apply to itself the remedy that it advocates. In both 
their policies and activities, United Nations bodies must 
respect the entirety of the rules of international law.
Finally, civil society, too, has an important role to 
play.  It  is  paramount  that  civil  society  be  associated 
with  the  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  wherever  it 
can provide added value.
The  rule  of  law  is  a  cross-cutting  principle;  it 
underpins  a  large  number  of  activities  that  concern  a 
multitude of stakeholders. It is not possible to list them 
all, so I shall give only a few examples. This year, as we 
are  celebrating  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  entry  into 
force of the Rome Statute, I would like to raise the issue 
of  the  importance  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
A/67/PV.4
and its crucial role in the fight against impunity for the 
most  serious  crimes,  namely  the  crime  of  genocide, 
crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of 
aggression. I am pleased to announce that Luxembourg 
has pledged to complete, by early next year, the process 
of  the  ratification  of  the  amendments  to  the  Rome 
Statute contained in the resolutions adopted at the June 
2010 Kampala Review Conference. Those amendments 
have already been implemented in our penal code.
We  also  highly  value  the  role  of  the  International 
Court of Justice. Luxembourg was one of the very first 
States  to  recognize  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  as 
compulsory.
Strengthening  the  rule  of  law  is  particularly 
important for countries emerging from conf lict. In order 
to ensure sustainable peace, the State must restore the 
trust of its citizens and create an enabling environment 
in  which  the  rights  of  all  are  respected  and  protected. 
In  that  context,  Luxembourg  pledges  to  continue 
supporting  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  by  contributing  at 
least 1 million euros for the period 2012-2014.
I  have  stressed  the  role  of  Member  States  in 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law.  International  rules  and 
norms may well exist, but it is up to Member States to 
implement them by ratifying the relevant international 
treaties. I would like to take this opportunity to announce 
that Luxembourg pledges to ratify, as soon as possible, 
the  third  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights of the Child, on a communications procedure.
In  the  Declaration  (resolution  67/1)  adopted  this 
morning (see A/67/PV.3), which was so ably facilitated 
by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Denmark  and 
Mexico, we solemnly reaffirm our commitment to the 
rule of law. It is my hope that this High-level Meeting 
will  provide  the  impetus  for  proactive  collective 
action in order to give the strengthening of the rule of 
law  its  rightful  place  in  a  transparent  and  just  global 
governance for the future.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the  f loor  to  Mr.  Eric  Holder,  Attorney  General  of  the 
United States of America.
Mr.  Holder  (United  States  of  America):  I  am 
honoured to represent the United States at this historic 
meeting  on  the  rule  of  law,  and  I  want  to  thank  all  of 
the leaders gathered here for bringing their voices, their 
perspectives and their commitment to this very critical 
discussion.
12-51943
7
A/67/PV.4
History  has  proved  that  the  establishment  and  the 
enforcement of the rule of law is essential in protecting 
the  security  and  civil  liberties  of  our  citizens,  in 
combating violent crime, public corruption and terrorist 
threats,  and  in  strengthening  civil  society.  In  recent 
days, we have been reminded, in the most painful and 
tragic  of  ways,  of  just  how  vital  the  rule  of  law  is  to 
ensuring freedom, opportunity, justice and peace.
must  continue  to  be  a  top  priority.  It  is  also  why  I  am 
proud to say that, at the international level, the United 
States  will  continue  to  support  United  Nations-led 
efforts to expand access to legal aid, to more effectively 
combat drug trafficking and organized crime alongside 
our  international  partners,  and  to  build  on  United 
Nations  initiatives  in  the  rule  of  law  sector  that  focus 
on conf lict and post-conf lict situations.
I am here to pledge not only the commitment of the 
United  States  to  these  principles,  but  also  our  support 
for the robust efforts of the United Nations to strengthen 
the rule of law worldwide.
I  would  like  to  assure  all  participants  that  my 
colleagues and I are determined to stand with Member 
States and with any nation that strives to ensure integrity, 
to  foster  innovation  and  to  create  opportunities  for 
prosperity and progress. We will also stand with those 
Governments that cherish the benefits of a free, fair and 
open society and that seek to eradicate the corrupt and 
abusive activities that can weaken political institutions, 
threaten 
the 
strength and promise of civil society, and diminish the 
quality  of  life  for  countless  individuals,  families  and 
communities. We must all truly serve the people whom 
we are privileged to represent.
the  democratic  process,  undermine 
From  our  national  systems  to  the  United  Nations 
work in advancing the goals of international peace and 
security, human rights for all people, including women, 
lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and  transgender  individuals  and 
persons  with  disabilities,  economic  development  and 
job  creation,  we  have  seen  time  and  time  again  that 
there  is  a  strong  link  between  fostering  democratic 
values  and  supporting  the  rule  of  law.  In  recent  years 
in  particular,  our  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  has 
helped  to  inform,  augment  and  re-energize  our  work 
in  confronting  a  range  of  challenges:  from  fighting 
crime,  corruption  and  terrorism  and  promoting  global 
security and good governance to ensuring equality and 
fair opportunity for all.
Today’s  meeting  underscores  the  fact  that  such 
work must remain at the centre of how nations approach 
development,  especially  in  conf lict-affected  or  fragile 
States.  As  the  World  Bank’s  recent  2012  World 
Development Report highlighted, it also reaffirms that, 
in today’s world, the greatest threat to development and 
recovery is a weak rule of law.
That  is  why  the  promise  that  we  have  gathered  to 
fulfil and the pledges that we are here to make are and 
Within  our  own  borders,  particularly  as  we 
approach  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  United  States 
Supreme Court decision guaranteeing indigent criminal 
defendants the right to counsel, the United States also 
pledges  to  take  steps  to  improve  access  to  justice  for 
those  who  cannot  afford  representation.  Additionally, 
we  are  committed  to  launching  a  new  domestic 
violence prevention initiative, strengthening safety net 
programmes that help increase the availability of legal 
aid, and enhancing our focus on protecting the essential 
rights of women, as well as girls. 
In those and our other efforts to strengthen the rule 
of law and to encourage cooperation on an international 
scale,  from  our  work  together  under  the  landmark 
United  Nations  conventions  against  crime,  terrorism 
and  corruption  to  our  capacity-building,  prosecutorial 
training and regional assistance efforts, the Department 
that  I  am  privileged  to  lead  and  the  nation  that  I  am 
honoured to serve are proud to stand with the leaders in 
the Hall. Like those present, we approach the challenges 
before  us  with  resolve,  humility  and  an  eagerness  to 
reinforce old friendships and to forge new ones. We are 
eager to join Member States as true and equal partners 
in driving this critical work into the future.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nikola  Poposki, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia.
Mr.  Poposki 
(former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia):  I  join  other  speakers  in  welcoming  this 
high-level  debate  aimed  at  streamlining  international 
efforts to strengthen the rule of law at both the national 
and  the  international  levels.  I  would  also  like  to  join 
others  in  welcoming  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
to  the  General  Assembly  of  16  March  (A/66/749)  and 
the  proposals  contained  therein,  inter  alia,  for  the 
General Assembly to adopt a programme of action for 
the  rule  of  law,  to  agree  to  a  process  to  develop  clear 
rule  of  law  goals  and  to  adopt  various  mechanisms  to 
enhance stakeholder dialogue on the subject, including 
8 
12-51943
A/67/PV.4
developing  corresponding  benchmarks  and  indicators 
to measure progress.
main  pillars  of  United  Nations  action  —  peace  and 
security, human rights and development.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  fully  committed 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  international  law.  We  firmly  believe  that 
an  international  order  based  on  the  rule  of  law  is  a 
prerequisite  for  a  more  just  and  prosperous  world 
and  to  ensuring  peaceful  relations  among  States  and 
their  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  In  that  regard, 
United Nations States Members and the Organization’s 
principal organs share the same responsibility to abide 
by the principles enshrined in the Charter.
Ensuring a stronger rule of law at the international 
and  national  levels  entails  creating  mechanisms  to 
strengthen international adjudicative dispute resolution, 
in  particular  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  as  the  principal  judiciary  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  by  ensuring  the  effective  implementation  of 
its decisions by all parties concerned. The Republic of 
Macedonia  clearly  supports  respecting  international 
commitments and the judgements of the Court. 
Furthermore,  we  support  the  recommendation 
of  the  Secretary-General  that,  for  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  to  strengthen  its  role  in  international 
relations and to increase the legitimacy and compliance 
of  actions  taken  by  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations with international law, where appropriate, those 
bodies should make greater use of the ability to request 
advisory  opinions  from  the  Court  so  as  to  ensure  that 
the international legal system is equally accessible and 
that international law is not selectively applied.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  supports  the  efforts 
of  the  Secretary-General  to  launch  a  campaign  to 
increase  the  number  of  Member  States  that  accept  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  pursuant  to  Article  36  of  the  Statute.  By 
accepting  its  compulsory  jurisdiction,  my  country  is 
fully aware that such optional declarations are the best 
way  to  ensure  that  international  disputes  are  settled 
peacefully in accordance with international law.
My  country  welcomes  the  Declaration  that  we 
have  adopted  at  this  High-level  Meeting,  which  was 
drafted  in  an  extensive  and  inclusive  consultative 
process  over  the  past  couple  of  months  (resolution 
67/1).  The  Declaration  is  action-oriented  and  provides 
a  comprehensive  platform  for  further  activities  to 
be  carried  out  at  international  and  national  levels  to 
strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  its  impact  on  the  three 
Let  me  conclude  by  quoting  Thomas  Hobbes: 
“Ignorance  of  the  law  is  no  good  excuse,  where  every 
man is bound to take notice of the laws to which he is 
subject.” The same applies to States.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Enrique Castillo, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Costa 
Rica.
Mr.  Castillo  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
come to this meeting today to reiterate the unwavering 
commitment  of  Costa  Rica  to  the  rule  of  law  as  the 
norm  that  anchors  democratic  life,  a  driving  force  for 
human  rights,  a  key  factor  in  development,  a  guiding 
instrument for peaceful coexistence among peoples and 
nations and the cornerstone of the multilateral system. I 
also come with the commitment to continue cooperating 
with  the  United  Nations  to  promote  the  rule  of  law  at 
the national and the international levels. That objective 
is a priority of our society and of our foreign policy.
We  are  satisfied  that,  following  intense  and 
constructive negotiations, today’s meeting has adopted 
an  outcome  Declaration  (resolution  67/1),  on  which, 
as  Member  States,  we  can  all  agree.    Costa  Rica  had 
greater ambitions for the Declaration’s content, yet we 
accept  it  nonetheless  with  satisfaction,  recognizing 
that  it  represents  a  clear  step  forward  in  this  matter. 
It  is,  moreover,  a  base  on  which  we  must  continue  to 
build,  within  the  Organization  and,  above  all,  within 
our respective countries.
I  would  like  to  recognize  and  thank  the  intense, 
transparent  and  effective  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
co-facilitators  of  the  document,  Ambassadors  Luis-
Alfonso  de  Alba  of  Mexico  and  Carsten  Staur  of 
Denmark.  We  would  like  to  welcome  yet  again  the 
programme  of  action  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  national  and  international  levels,  presented  by  the 
Secretary-General  in  his  report  (A/66/749).  In  that 
respect,  the  work  of  the  Secretariat  and  in  particular 
its  Rule  of  Law  Unit  has  been  pivotal.  However,  very 
little  could  be  achieved  without  the  participation  and 
conviction of Member States. 
For  Costa  Rica,  national  law  is  the  explicit 
manifestation  of  our  social  contract  as  an  unarmed 
democracy and defender of human rights. International 
law, in turn, is the foundation of our external security 
and  the  cornerstone  of  our  relations  with  other 
12-51943
9
A/67/PV.4
countries.  The  local  and  global  dimensions  of  legality 
are indivisible. Hence, the synergy between the national 
and  international  rule  of  law  must  go  beyond  the 
ratification  of  multilateral  agreements.  That  synergy 
also  requires  the  development  of  domestic  legislation 
and  institutions  in  order  to  strengthen  democracy, 
promote  peace,  respect  human  dignity  and  drive 
development that is dynamic, sustainable and inclusive.
Achieving 
between 
consistency 
obligations 
under  international  conventions  and  national  laws 
and  practices  is  the  responsibility  of  all  States.  The 
Constitution of Costa Rica grants international human 
rights  instruments  constitutional  rank.  Furthermore, 
our  constitutional  jurisprudence  confers  on  those 
instruments  a  supra-constitutional  value,  insofar  as 
they  grant  greater  rights  or  guarantees.  In  1973,  our 
country  accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  highest  body  for 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States. 
Today we reiterate our trust in the Court and recall that 
abiding  by  its  decisions,  fully  and  without  exception, 
is  an  obligation  of  every  State,  emanating  from  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Democracy  is  the  philosophical  foundation  that 
legitimizes  constitutional  and  legal  norms.  Freely 
elected  parliaments  are  its  principal  bulwarks,  as 
representatives of the principle of popular sovereignty. 
Compliance with norms should be equally applicable to 
all citizens and entities. No one should be above the law, 
and leaders have a particular duty to fulfil those norms 
and  be  accountable  for  their  actions.  Transparency  is 
part of legality.
Impunity,  however,  is  a  mockery  of  the  rule  of 
law,  and  that  mockery  is  an  offence  to  justice  when 
the  worst  crimes  against  humanity  go  unpunished. 
Costa  Rica  is  therefore  profoundly  committed  to  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  which  is  one  of  the 
greatest  achievements  of  the  multilateral  system  since 
the creation of the United Nations. 
The  universal  values  of  justice  provide  not  only 
a  conceptual  basis  for  the  organization  of  States,  but 
they  are  also  a  necessity  for  every  human  being  and 
all  peoples  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  focus  our 
attention, our commitment and our work towards them. 
Costa Rica reiterates its commitment to do just that.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Didier Reynders, 
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Institutional Reform of the Kingdom of Belgium.
Mr.    Reynders  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
rule of law, human rights and democracy are inextricably 
linked and are mutually reinforcing. They lie at the very 
heart of the values and principles of the United Nations. 
While  being  a  value  and  goal  in  itself,  the  rule  of  law 
is  also  an  instrument  guaranteeing  the  sustainability 
of our other core values: human rights and democracy. 
The rule of law is, therefore, decisive in strengthening 
the three pillars of our Organization, namely, peace and 
security, economic and social development and human 
rights.
With  regard  to  international  peace  and  security, 
every  day  the  news  reminds  us  of  the  human  cost  of 
failure to respect international rules and norms. Do we 
need  reminding  of  the  intolerable  suffering  inf licted 
by  the  Syrian  regime  on  its  own  population?  Those 
despicable  acts  are  an  insult  to  the  global  conscience. 
International law must be respected and applied by all. 
Otherwise  the  international  community,  including  the 
Security Council, must assume its responsibilities. 
I  call  on  all  parties  to  conf licts  to  respect 
international  humanitarian  law  in  all  circumstances 
and to refrain in particular from any forms of violence 
against women and children and sexual violence. Just a 
few weeks ago I witnessed at first hand the unspeakable 
suffering of the populations in the combat zones of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  in  the  Great 
Lakes  region.  Strengthening  the  rule  of  law  is,  in  my 
opinion,  a  key  component  of  preventing  conf licts  and 
mass atrocities. 
In  that  connection,  one  of  the  most  crucial 
responsibilities  of  each  State  is  to  protect  its  own 
population  from  the  most  serious  crimes.  But  the 
rule  of  law,  including  transitional  justice,  plays  a 
defining role in creating lasting peace in post-conf lict 
situations.  There  can  be  no  sustainable  development 
without genuine rule of law. Businessmen and investors 
need legal security and a climate conducive to business. 
If  corruption  reigns  and  justice  cannot  function 
independently, then the economy cannot develop.
The economic and social costs of the law of “might 
is  right”  are  enormous.  Such  exercise  of  power  does 
nothing but cripple the economic progress of societies. 
That is why Belgium wants that facet of the rule of law 
to  be  clearly  ref lected  in  the  post-2015  international 
development  agenda.  Well-established  rule  of  law  is 
10 
12-51943
indispensable to achieving equitable, inclusive, just and 
lasting  economic  growth.  In  that  respect,  the  rule  of 
law specifically means establishing robust institutions 
accessible  to  all,  operating  with  transparency  and 
guided  by  just  laws.  That  requires  the  adoption 
and  implementation  of  stable,  predicable  social  and 
commercial  legislation  that  stimulates  business  and 
employment. 
The  rule  of  law  is  fundamental  to  respect  for 
human  rights.  The  many  treaties  and  conventions 
are  safeguards  for  setting  the  rules  of  the  game  and 
protecting  the  most  vulnerable  in  our  societies.  The 
prescriptive role of the United Nations should be noted 
in  that  context.  But  there  is  no  doubt  that  what  is 
important  is  the  specific  application  of  the  law.  More 
and  more  citizens  worldwide  have  the  right  to  freely 
choose their representatives. That must be commended. 
However,  true  rule  of  law  cannot  be  confined  to  only 
election  day.  It  involves  a  process  where  election  day 
is but the culmination. In that context, I condemn any 
attempt to call into question the system of checks and 
balances.
In  all  of  those  spheres  we,  as  political  leaders, 
bear  a  major  responsibility.  It  is  our  duty  to  ensure 
respect  for  and  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  in 
all  its  dimensions,  both  in  our  own  societies  and  in 
international  relations.  Belgium  therefore  thanks  the 
Secretary-General  for  having  placed  this  key  question 
high  on  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda.  His  excellent 
report  (A/66/749)  has  provided  us  with  an  ambitious 
vision  of  a  more  just  world.  My  country  supports  that 
vision  unconditionally.  However,  we  regret  that  the 
outcome  document  (resolution  67/1)  does  not  fully 
ref lect the proposed level of ambition.
It is our fervent hope that the mobilization generated 
by the high-level event can receive concrete follow-up 
within  the  United  Nations  system  and,  above  all,  on 
the  ground.  Along  those  lines,  Belgium  has  answered 
the  call  of  the  Secretary-General  and  has  drawn  up 
17 specific commitments in the field of rule of law.
While  fully  associating  myself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  President  of  the  European  Commission, 
Mr.  Barroso,  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union,  I 
would like to conclude my intervention by reaffirming 
Belgium’s  commitment  in  the  fight  against  impunity. 
The  International  Criminal  Court  has  shown  that 
it  can  contribute  to  the  inauguration  of  the  age  of 
responsibility. Cooperation of all States with the Court 
is vital. Belgium is committed to ratifying by 2015 the 
A/67/PV.4
amendments adopted in Kampala. I call on other States 
parties to do likewise. 
By  virtue  of  the  complementarity  that  underpins 
the  Statute  of 
the  Court,  States  bear  primary 
responsibility  for  prosecuting  the  perpetrators  of  the 
most  serious  crimes.  With  a  view  to  contributing  to 
efforts  to  enhance  national  capacities  in  that  respect, 
Belgium, with Slovenia and the Netherlands, proposes 
to improve the international framework for judicial aid 
and  extradition  through  the  negotiation  and  adoption 
of  a  new  international  legal  instrument.  I  call  on  the 
comity  of  States  to  support  that  initiative.  Belgium 
remains ready to cooperate with the United Nations and 
other Member States, through strengthening the rule of 
law at all levels, to build a more just, more prosperous, 
more peaceful and more humane world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Titus  Corlăţean, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Romania.
  Mr.  Corlăţean  (Romania):  It  is  a  great  honour 
for me to address some of the key aspects of the topic 
chosen for the High-level Meeting this year: the rule of 
law.  As  a  lawyer  and  former  minister  of  justice,  I  am 
personally attached to this value.
It  is  Romania’s  firm  belief  that  respect  for  and 
promotion of the rule of law are outstanding objectives 
that  must  guide  all  our  endeavours.  At  the  national 
level,  the  rule  of  law  translates,  on  a  conceptual 
basis,  the  need  for  a  stable  and  predictable  legal  and 
constitutional  framework  respected  by  all  actors  of 
society and guarded by an independent justice system. 
At the international level, the concept of the rule of law 
creates  an  adequate  framework  for  political  dialogue, 
cooperation, peace and security.
Allow  me  to  share  certain  aspects  of  Romania’s 
experience in strengthening the rule of law. 
Over the past two decades, we have been engaged 
in  steadfast  endeavours  to  promote  and  consolidate 
the  principles  encompassed  by  the  concept,  such  as 
supremacy of law, separation of powers, equality before 
the  law,  accountability  to  the  law,  legal  certainty  and 
transparency.  This  process  is  continuing,  with  a  focus 
on furthering the implementation of these fundamental 
principles. It is our firm commitment to strengthen the 
rule  of  law,  building  upon  the  results  obtained  so  far, 
in  order  to  achieve  more  social  justice  and    to  ensure 
sustainable development of society as a whole.  I have 
12-51943
11
A/67/PV.4
chosen  four  directions  of  action  that  can  prove  our 
determination. 
The ﬁ rst is to ﬁ ght corruption and promote integrity. 
Although the process is long-term and comprehensive, 
I  can  state  that  just  recently,  stronger  legislation  to 
promote  public  integrity  and  the  comprehensive  2012-
2015  National  Anti-Corruption  Strategy  have  been 
adopted.
is 
the 
The 
second  direction 
stability  and 
predictability  of  the  legal  framework.  An  important 
result of Romania’s ambitious legislative agenda is the 
adoption of four new codes in criminal and civil law, in 
view of the need to modernize the judicial process and 
enhance legal certainty. 
The third direction, and maybe the most important, 
is  the  independence  of  justice.  Today,  I  am  more 
convinced  than  ever  that  an  independent  and  reliable 
justice  system 
the 
functioning of the State. Recent debates in our country 
have  shown  that  full  compliance  by  all  legal  and 
political actors with the decisions of the highest court,  
the Constitutional Court, is the fundamental pillar of a 
democratic society based on rule of law.
importance  for 
is  of  utmost 
The fourth direction, transparency towards citizens 
and  civil  society,  has  been  highlighted  as  one  of  the 
basic principles of the Government’s 2012 Programme. 
I  wish  to  continue  by  sharing  Romania’s  view  on 
the concept of the rule of law at the international level. 
The  rule  of  law  contains  significant  relevant  elements 
that  regulate  the  conduct  of  relations  among  States 
and  constitutes  a  core,  universal  and  indivisible  value 
of  the  United  Nations.  States  must  comply  with  their 
obligations  arising  from  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, treaties and customary international law, thus 
ensuring predictability in international relations.
I  commend  the  recent  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/66/749).  I  consider  that  each  and  every 
recommendation  it  contains    is  very  important  for 
achieving  tangible  progress  in  the  United  Nations 
agenda  on  the  rule  of  law.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that  in 
the  efforts  to  consolidate  the  rule  of  law,  the  role  of 
the  international  courts  and  tribunals  should  also  be 
strengthened.
The  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
in  promoting  the  rule  of  law,  through  applying  the 
principles  and  norms  of  international  law  and  thus 
contributing  to  friendly  relations  among  States  and 
to  peace  and  stability,  is  undisputed.  Romania,  for  its 
part,  is  a  firm  supporter  of  the  Court.  I  am  happy  to 
announce  our  intention  to  initiate  an  internal  debate 
concerning the possibility of accepting the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court.
I would like to recall the words of one of the greatest 
Romanian diplomats and jurists of the interwar period, 
Vespasian V. Pella, who contributed greatly to the idea 
of a permanent international criminal court and to the 
foundation  of  international  criminal  law.  As  early  as 
1925, Vespasian Pella stated that,
(spoke in French)
“the  fundamental  axiom  so  often  repeated,  that 
criminals  exist  and  will  always  exist  in  national 
societies  as  well  as  within  international  societies, 
confirms  to  us  the  need  for  an  international 
criminal policy.” 
(spoke in English)
Today  it  appears  more  evident  than  ever  that 
consolidating  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
enhancing its universality are the necessary means for 
fostering  a  preventive  approach  towards  compliance 
with the most important norms of international law. It 
is  our  belief  that  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  and 
should remain central in boosting the efforts of Member 
States in strengthening rule of law at the global level. 
I  also  wish  to  underline  the  need  for  a  cross-
thematic dialogue on the rule of law within the General 
Assembly  in  pursuit  of  greater  coherence  in  future 
United Nations activities related to the rule of law. 
I  also  welcome  and  support 
the  Secretary-
General’s initiative to create a United Nations platform 
for  voluntary  pledges,  and  I  would  like  to  announce 
Romania’s pledges. 
I can only conclude by remarking on the dynamism 
of the concept of the rule of law, which is, in essence, 
the result of significant historic evolutions in the field 
of cooperation among States in a desire to ensure peace 
and security, stability and prosperity, as well as a great 
respect for human rights.
As  a  European  Union  member  State,  we  align 
ourselves with the statement delivered earlier today on 
behalf of the European Union.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the  Republic  of 
the Sudan. 
12 
12-51943
Mr.  El-Nor    (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow  me 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Ahmed 
Karti,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
the Sudan. It is my pleasure to address Member States 
at  this  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels, which voices the concerns of the world’s leaders 
with  regard  to  the  law  and  the  principle  of  justice,  in 
addition  to  the  collective  efforts  that  are  being  made 
with a view to promoting the rule of law at the national 
and international levels.
The  Sudan  believes  in  the  importance  of  the 
rule  of  law  as  a  principle  of  governance  whereby  all 
individuals and institutions are on equal footing under 
the  absolute  authority  of  independent  justice.  The 
Sudan  has  experienced  several  legal  and  legislative 
developments  in  recent  years.  Those  changes  have 
shown  that  the  State  and  society  are  moving  towards 
enshrining the culture of peace and the importance of 
law  at  the  international  and  national  levels  in  order  to 
consolidate peace, justice and respect for human rights, 
with  a  view  to  peacefully  resolving  differences  in  all 
their  aspects  while  respecting  justice.  Those  changes 
helped us to adopt a transitional Constitution in 2005, 
as well as  laws ensuring respect for international legal 
norms. 
The legal political parties in the Sudan are working 
intensively  and  in  broad  consultations  with  various 
sectors of Sudanese society, both with the Government 
and  with  civil  society,  with  a  view  to  achieving  a 
permanent constitution in the light of the recent political 
developments  in  our  country,  including  the  separation 
of South Sudan. Through a new a constitution, we seek 
to  enshrine  the  values  of  freedom  and  the  rule  of  law, 
in  addition  to  the  independence  of  the  justice  system 
and  the  protection  of  human  rights,  while  respecting 
norms,  conventions  and 
international  agreements 
through  international  law.  We  are  pleased  to  say  that 
we have always been an effective actor at regional and 
international  levels  in  various  fields,  above  all  when 
it  comes  to  human  rights  conventions  and  combating 
terrorism and corruption, as well as with regard to arms 
conventions and nuclear proliferation instruments. We 
have  incorporated  most  of  those  conventions  into  our 
national law through legislative action. 
We  are  endeavouring 
legislative 
performance  and  legal  training  through  strategies  to 
improve traditional justice mechanisms. That is taking 
place concurrently with the work of the State and while 
improve 
to 
A/67/PV.4
focusing  on  the  more  vulnerable  groups  by  allowing 
them to have equal access to justice. 
With  regard  to  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  level,  we  believe  in  the  importance  of 
respecting international law and its principles. We stress 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We 
believe in the right of the State to guarantee justice and 
its sovereignty. We also believe in the importance of the 
peaceful settlement of international disputes. We stress 
the  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  whose 
role  we  must  promote.  Regional  and  international 
cooperation,  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of  national 
sovereignty  and  renouncing  unilateral  actions  taken 
by  some  States  against  others,  is  of  fundamental 
importance.  Such  action  is  considered  a  violation 
of  international  law.  We  reiterate  the  importance  of 
reforming 
the 
United  Nations.  We  need  to  promote  the  principles  of 
transparency and democracy through the participation 
of  the  States  in  the  adoption  of  resolutions.  In  that 
regard, we must improve the adoption of resolutions in 
the  Security  Council.  The  Council  must  play  its  role 
in  upholding  international  security.  Avoiding  those 
principles only exacerbates international conf licts.
international 
institutions, 
including 
We  meet  today  to  promote  the  rule  of  law  and 
justice.  We  endorse  what  was  said  by  those  countries 
that  voiced  their  concerns  about  the  politicization 
of  international  justice  and  the  use  of  the  principles 
of  justice  as  a  means  of  fomenting  political  conf lict 
between States with a view to sanctioning the weak and 
ignoring violations committed by the strongest. 
I wish to make an appeal for this occasion to be a 
call  for  support  for  the  oppressed,  those  living  under 
the  yoke  of  occupation  in  many  parts  of  the  world, 
especially  in  Palestine.  We  support  equality  for  all 
before the law.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Pascal Canfin, Minister 
Delegate for Development of France. 
Mr.  Canfin  (France)  (spoke 
in  French):  On 
behalf  of  France,  I  welcome  the  initiative  taken  by 
the  General  Assembly  to  organize  this  first  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International Levels. As underscored in the Declaration 
adopted today (resolution 67/1), this event concerns all 
individuals, institutions, public and private entities and 
the  State  itself.  It  will  have  made  it  possible  to  show 
that  there  is  international  consensus  on  the  following 
12-51943
13
A/67/PV.4
fundamental principles: the right of all citizens to equal 
protection  before  the  law,  without  any  discrimination, 
and the responsibility of the State and of Governments, 
which must be accountable to their peoples. 
gender  identity  among  the  foreign  policy  priorities  of 
the new French Government. We have set the abolition 
of the death penalty as an absolute priority by launching 
a global campaign for its universal abolition.
instruments.  The 
On behalf of France, I would like to mention three 
key  topics  for  our  discussion.  The  first  topic  is  the 
importance of having an international legal framework. 
Since  1945,  States  have  set  up  a  body  of  exceptional 
international  standards.  The  Geneva  Conventions 
are  universal 
two  International 
Covenants  on  Human  Rights;  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide; 
the  Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel, 
Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment; 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination against Women; and the Convention on 
the  Rights  of  the  Child  are  a  framework  of  reference 
for Governments, as well as for civil society, tribunals, 
parliaments, heads of State, and mere citizens.
The  usefulness  of 
today’s  event  consists 
in 
mobilizing us to strengthen that normative framework 
and its implementation, for there are still entire realms 
of activity without any legal security. International law 
is  lacking  when  it  comes  to  the  plundering  of  natural 
resources, for example, or the trafficking in wildlife. The 
Secretary-General has proposed a programme of action 
to complement and better implement international law. 
France  thanks  him  for  that  and  we  would  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  his  personal  commitment. We  also  welcome 
the  way  in  which  United  Nations  organs,  such  as  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  have 
been  mobilized  in  recent  months  to  apply  the  law  and 
to  respond  to  the  democratic  aspirations  of  Libyan 
citizens,  as  well  as  the  battered  Syrian  people.  The 
United  Nations  must  remain  central  in  the  promotion 
of  the  rule  of  law.  We  will  support  Deputy  Secretary-
General  Eliasson  in  his  role  as  coordinator  of  such  a 
system.
For its part, bearing in mind the recommendations 
of the Secretariat, France has committed to considering 
ratifying  certain  protocols  and  of  withdrawing 
some  reservations  and 
interpretative  declarations. 
With  Argentina,  we  have  sponsored  the  most  recent 
international  instruments,  namely,  the  International 
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All  Persons  from 
Enforced  Disappearance.  Today,  France  is  committed 
to  promoting  the  universality  of  that  instrument.  We 
have  also  included  the  fight  against  violence  and 
discrimination  as  a  result  of  sexual  orientation  or 
The second topic that I would like to underscore is 
the  role  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the  development  agenda. 
The  Secretary-General  has  set  up  a  high-level  panel, 
which  will  make  to  him  recommendations  on  post-
2015  development.  We  will  certainly  not  prejudge  a 
discussion  that  is  under  way.  However,  it  is  no  longer 
conceivable  that  such  discussions  do  not  include  the 
rule  of  law  dimension.  National  and  international 
development strategies must necessarily be founded on 
a  robust  normative  framework  that  respects  the  rights 
of all.
legal 
security 
conducive 
State-building, 
to 
exchange  and  the  ability  of  everyone  to  participate  in 
the decision-making process are crucial conditions for 
development. In our view, that is also the direction of the 
Arab Spring. Our Declaration had therefore to make that 
link between the rule of law and development. Thanks 
to the efforts of the Mexican and Danish co-facilitators, 
our  Declaration  ref lects  such  associations  among  the 
rule  of  law,  the  fair  provision  of  basic  public  services 
and development.
In its bilateral projects, France ensures respect for 
the principles of the rule of law, namely, human rights, 
an  independent  judiciary  and  access  to  justice  for  all. 
Giving  priority  to  such  universal  precepts  does  not, 
however,  mean  imposing  or  setting  any  single  model. 
We  must,  of  course,  unite  both  common  standards 
and  the  diversity  of  national  experiences.  We  must 
take  into  account  the  multiple  sources  of  law,  as  we 
are  doing  in  Afghanistan  and  in  a  law  centre  project 
in Senegal, for example. We involve all actors — civil 
society,  parliamentarians,  academics  and  journalists 
actors  —  and  propose  responses  adapted  to  local 
realities, such as in the area of land. 
Establishing  the  rule  of  law  specifically  means 
enabling  the  user,  the  taxpayer  and  the  defendant  to 
demand  that  public  officials  be  accountable.  Such 
citizen  power,  such  accountability,  is  a  prerequisite 
for  transparency,  the  fight  against  corruption  and, 
ultimately,  sustainable  development.  France  supports 
the  work  of  non-governmental  organizations  in  that 
regard, including the “Publish what you pay” coalition.  
The third topic, which stems from the two preceding 
ones, is the criminal responsibility of those who contest 
14 
12-51943
the  principles  of  the  rule  of  law  and  bring  to  trial  the 
citizens whom they should serve. For some years, this 
Organization  has  entered  a  period  that  the  Secretary-
General  calls  the  age  of  responsibility.  It  is  the  era 
of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  which  came  into  force  in  2005,  and  the  age  of 
the  responsibility  to  protect,  declared  in  2005  in  the 
World  Summit  Outcome  Document  (resolution  60/1). 
The  fight  against  the  impunity  of  those  who  commit 
human  rights  violations  is  not  only  a  moral  and  legal 
obligation.  It  is  also  a  new  way  to  approach  conf licts 
by denying the perpetrators of genocide, crime against 
humanity and war crimes any legitimacy.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  six 
commitments made by France at the Summit: promoting 
the Convention on enforced disappearance; supporting 
the International Criminal Court, working for the right 
to truth; implementing action plans against racism and 
anti-Semitism  and  against  discrimination  on  the  basis 
of  sexual  orientation  and  gender;  campaigning  for  the 
abolition of the death penalty; and ensuring the respect 
and promotion of international humanitarian law in all 
circumstances.  That  is  an  ambitious  programme,  for 
which we, for our part, are ready to be accountable in 
future debates before this Assembly.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alfredo  Moreno 
Charme,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of Chile. 
Mr.  Moreno  Charme  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
One  of  the  greatest  challenges  to  the  international 
community in the twenty-first century is strengthening 
the  international  legal  order  and  the  rule  of  law. 
Chile  attaches  the  greatest  importance  to  this  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International  Levels.  The  rule  of  law  is  essential  to 
the peaceful coexistence of peoples, their governance, 
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  economic  and  social 
development of all peoples. 
For our country, the rule of law must prevail both in 
international relations and within States. Its observance 
at  the  international  level  is  crucial  to  the  peaceful 
development  of  relations  among  peoples,  peace  and 
the  stability  of  nations.  The  rule  of  law,  ref lected  in 
the  respect  of  international  law  and  international 
treaties, and the pacific settlement of disputes are part 
of  the  foundation  of  international  coexistence.  As  the 
Secretary-General  has  stated,  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
A/67/PV.4
international level underpins the Charter of the United 
Nations.
In  our  view,  the  promotion  of  and  respect  for  the 
rule  of  law  at  the  international  level  involve  gradual 
and  universal  acceptance  of  international  law  by 
States  and  their  subsequent  compliance  with  their 
obligations  under  that  law.  In  that  connection,  respect 
for  international  treaties  is  fundamental,  with  which 
States parties, in addition to being bound by them, must 
comply in good faith. In that regard, we underscore the 
need  for  compliance  with  border  treaties  and  for  the 
stability of such boundaries.
The 
universal 
acceptance 
of  multilateral 
international treaties, which govern matters of interest 
to the international community as a whole, should be an 
objective of States Members of the United Nations. The 
General  Assembly  must  play  a  role  in  that  regard  by 
encouraging States to conclude, ratify and/or accede to 
such treaties. That will constitute specific action by the 
Assembly to promote the rule of law and international 
law.
In  addition,  enhancement  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level necessarily means the strengthening 
and  use  of  the  means  to  peacefully  settle  disputes 
provided for in the Charter on the basis of the principle 
of  free  choice  of  those  means.  In  that  context,  we 
underscore the work of international courts, in particular 
the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  both  in  its  adversarial 
work  and  in  exercising  its  advisory  functions.  Chile 
acknowledges the work of the Court and its contribution 
to international law through its valuable jurisprudence.
We also welcome the existence of and the work done 
by  important  special  courts,  such  as  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, regional human rights 
courts,  ad  hoc  international  criminal  courts  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The  latter  is  today 
the  most  advanced  expression  of  the  development  of 
international  criminal  justice.  For  my  Government,  it 
is  one  of  the  most  significant  recent  initiatives.  From 
the  point  of  view  of  the  protection  of  human  rights, 
the  establishment  of  the  Court  is  a  milestone  in  the 
fight  against  impunity  and  a  clear  demonstration  that 
its  States  parties  are  committed  to  the  international 
community moving forward in that direction.
We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  the  rule  of 
law  at  the  national  level.  It  is  inconceivable  that  such 
a precept should be developed only at the international 
12-51943
15
A/67/PV.4
level  without,  at  the  same  time,  being  observed  at  the 
national level. That is a prerequisite for internal peace 
and, at the same time, strengthens international peace. 
The rule of law at the domestic level is intrinsically 
linked to the rule of law at the international level. The 
two  cannot  be  separated.  There  will  be  respect  for 
international law if the rule of law at the domestic level 
is allowed to develop in the normal fashion. Ultimately, 
international  law  can  function  properly  only  if  the 
rule  of  law  functions  effectively  and  properly  at  the 
domestic level.
Moreover,  the  rule  of  law  at  the  domestic  level  is 
essentially  nurtured  by  representative  democracy,  the 
value  that  ensures  most  exactly  its  proper  exercise. 
As  stated  in  the  Inter-American  Democratic  Charter, 
democracy is strengthened and deepened by permanent, 
ethical  and  responsible  participation  of  the  citizenry 
within a legal framework conforming to the respective 
constitutional  order.  Respect  for  human  rights  is  part 
of that.
The  appropriate  establishment  and  functioning 
of  national  organs  and  institutions,  as  well  as  the 
subordination  of  all  authorities  and  judiciaries  to 
domestic  regulations,  are  essential  for  the  normal 
development of the rule of law at the domestic level. It 
is also essential to have an autonomous and independent 
judicial  system,  with  legitimacy  to  act.  The  very 
existence of the relevant responsibilities, in accordance 
with which all persons, whatever their rank, answer to 
judicial authorities who apply the law equally to all, is 
also an essential prerequisite.
The  United  Nations,  particularly  the  General 
Assembly, must continue to promote ref lection on this 
issue. It must also promote the conditions under which 
its Members can respect the rule of law at the domestic 
level  and  the  means  and  mechanisms  through  which 
they  are  able  to  do  so.  In  this  connection,  we  support 
the  idea  of  States  working  effectively  together.  The 
promotion of dialogue is crucial in this respect.
Our  country  reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international levels and announces that it will continue 
to work towards this goal.
My  Government  believes  that  the  promotion  of 
and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  should  be  ref lected  in 
concrete  actions.  We  therefore  welcome  the  idea  that 
States make pledges at this high-level meeting. In this 
connection,  my  country  pledges  to  work  actively  to 
develop  national  legislation  to  implement  the  Rome 
Statute, specifically by submitting draft legislation on 
cooperation  with  the  International  Criminal  Court  to 
the National Congress by 30 June 2013.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zalmai  Rassoul, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan. 
Mr. Rassoul (Afghanistan): Afghanistan welcomes 
today’s high-level meeting, which is a manifestation of 
our shared conviction that strengthening the rule of law, 
nationally and internationally, is to our mutual benefit. 
Over the course of the past six decades, the United 
Nations  has  made  great  progress  in  securing  peace, 
safeguarding  fundamental  freedoms  and  assisting 
countries emerging from conf lict. The rule of law has 
been  a  fundamental  basis  for  all  those  achievements. 
In  short,  we  can  say  that  the  rule  of  law  is  the  very 
bedrock  on  which  peaceful,  stable  and  harmonious 
societies f lourish.
For  Afghanistan,  upholding  the  rule  of  law  is  an 
essential  component  of  our  transition  from  a  society 
ravaged  by  decades  of  conf lict  and  war  to  one  where 
we  are  working  to  take  on  the  security,  development 
and  justice  challenges  that  remain.  Our  efforts  to 
rebuild  began  with  State  institutions  that  were  either 
non-existent or severely weakened.
Over  the  past  years,  we  have  made  progress  in 
building  the  capacity  of  our  justice  sector  to  ensure 
improved  rule  of  law.  This  principle  is  embedded  in 
the  Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy.  We 
have  taken  wide-ranging  measures  in  support  of  an 
independent,  more  transparent,  impartial  and  credible 
justice sector, including the adoption of a Constitution 
that safeguards the rights of all citizens; an overhaul of 
our  national  legal  framework;  and  the  development  of 
national action plans to restructure and build capacity 
in our ministries.
Ending  impunity  is  an  important  step  in  building 
public confidence and trust in our justice and security 
sectors.  To  that  end,  the  newly  drafted  criminal 
procedure code was presented this year to the National 
Assembly and is expected to be placed on the legislative 
agenda  soon.  Several  working  groups  have  also  been 
continuing  their  efforts  to  revise  the  penal  code  in 
order  to  strengthen  the  protection  of  all  citizens,  with 
particular  focus  on  the  rights  of  women  and  children. 
We  have  made  considerable  progress  in  broadening 
participation in education, in particular higher education, 
16 
12-51943
A/67/PV.4
where  the  judges  and  lawyers  of  tomorrow  will  be 
trained.  Through  these  gains  and  many  others,  we 
are  rebuilding  the  necessary  tools  and  institutions  to 
ensure the rule of law as a solid basis on which to build 
sustainable peace.
The  chance  to  live  in  peace  and  security  is  a 
fundamental  right  of  all  peoples.  The  people  of 
Afghanistan  desire  nothing  more  than  the  chance  to 
live  in  a  violence-free  environment.  In  that  regard, 
Afghanistan’s security sector reform, initiated in 2001, 
has led to the formation of a national army and police in 
whose ranks the diversity of the country is represented. 
Consistent  with  the  transition  process,  our  security 
forces are taking increased responsibility — backed by 
public confidence in them — to meet the security needs 
of our people in our villages, towns and provinces.
For  the  past  decade,  we  have  been  studiously 
engaged  in  combating  corruption,  an  ill  that  has  had 
a  drastic  effect  on  our  governance,  stability  and 
prosperity.  It  harms  Afghans  first  and  foremost. 
Defeating  the  menace  of  corruption  therefore  remains 
a  high  priority  for  my  Government.  We  have  taken  a 
number  of  measures  to  achieve  a  fully  transparent 
administration,  the  most  recent  of  which  was  the 
issuance of a presidential decree this past July directing 
all ministries, agencies and independent directorates to 
undertake  comprehensive  reforms  and  other  measures 
to defeat corruption and strengthen transparency.
Afghanistan  is  party  to  a  multitude  of  relevant 
treaties  and  conventions  that  seek  to  uphold  and 
promote  the  rule  of  law  in  a  wide  array  of  spheres. 
We recognize that signing and ratifying treaties is not 
enough  and  that  rights  and  obligations  arising  from 
international instruments must be implemented through 
national  legislation.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  President 
Karzai has instructed the Ministry of Justice to actively 
take forward the process of ensuring that our national 
legislation  is  in  full  conformity  with  our  international 
commitments.
The Secretary-General has announced strengthening 
compliance  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations  a 
priority in the field of the rule of law at the international 
level.  Achieving  a  reformed  Security  Council  with  a 
view to increasing its representation and transparency 
and furthering its effectiveness is of utmost importance. 
Afghanistan  has  taken  a  lead  role  in  chairing  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  and  we  stand  ready  to  ensure  that  this  vital 
the  Security  Council  strengthens  and 
reform  of 
enhances  the  United  Nations  ability  to  promote  and 
uphold the rule of law at the international level.
We  highlight  the  importance  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in  promoting  international 
criminal  justice  and  addressing  the  most  serious 
crimes as a court of last resort. As a State party to the 
Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC,  we  welcome  the  continuing 
increase  in  the  number  of  States  joining  the  Statute. 
This  illustrates  that  the  Court’s  work  and  inf luence  is 
gaining momentum.
While this high-level dialogue is significant in that 
it is engaging Member States on this important issue, we 
must ensure that we do not stop at dialogue. Our agreed 
outcomes must be implemented at both the national and 
international levels. Afghanistan will continue to do its 
part to help strengthen, as part of the global effort, the 
rule of law at the national and international levels.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the f loor to His Excellency Mr. Mathias Meinrad 
Chikawe, Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs 
of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Mr.  Chikawe  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  The 
United Republic of Tanzania welcomes the importance 
that  the  United  Nations  has  placed  on  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  at  all  levels  of  governance.  Let  me  first 
warmly  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  initiating 
this  timely  and  pertinent  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule of Law at the National and International Levels. It 
is indeed relevant and important for the United Nations 
to discuss this topic in the General Assembly in support 
of the initiatives of the Sixth Committee.
Tanzania is committed to upholding and promoting 
the rule of law nationally, regionally and internationally. 
At  the  national  level,  the  rule  of  law  is  at  the  heart  of 
the social contract between the State and the individual. 
The Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 
1977 has been our Magna Carta in providing guidance 
and measures to ensure adherence to the rule of law. In 
this  regard,  the  principles  of  equality  before  the  law, 
accountability  to  the  law  and  separation  of  powers 
are  embodied  in  our  Constitution.  Realizing  that  the 
Constitution  emanates  from  the  people  and  ref lects 
what  the  people  want,  Tanzania  is  currently  involved 
in  a  thorough,  all-inclusive  review  of  its  Constitution 
for the purpose of developing a new constitution, as the 
current one has served the country for the past 50 years.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
12-51943
17
A/67/PV.4
The Constitution also provides for the establishment 
of national institutions with mandates to ensure that not 
only is the rule of law observed, but that citizens’ rights 
are  protected.  One  such  institution  is  the  Commission 
for  Human  Rights  and  Good  Governance,  which,  over 
the years, has done and continues to do a commendable 
job.
and  adheres  to  the  purposes  and  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  Likewise,  we  attach  great 
importance to the need to reform the Security Council, 
which  is  an  important  pillar  of  international  peace 
and  security,  which  also  hinge  on  international  law. 
The  governing  structures  of  the  United  Nations  must 
therefore give equal comfort to all its Members.
Adherence  to  the  principles  of  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights,  access  to  justice  and 
equality,  good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law  in  the 
country  has  also  been  well-captured  in  our  county’s 
Development  Vision  2025  and  National  Strategy  for 
Growth and Reduction of Poverty. 
Strengthening  our  justice  system  has  been  one  of 
the top priorities of our five-year national development 
plan. In this regard, the Government has made deliberate 
efforts to increase the number of judges and magistrates, 
building  new  courts  and  renovating  old  ones.  The 
modernization of the judiciary services — inter alia, by 
introducing  tele-justice  —  is  under  way.  The  number 
of advocates in private practice has also been steadily 
increased with the establishment of the Law School of 
Tanzania,  which  has  made  representation  and  access 
to  justice  in  Tanzania  a  reality.  The  establishment  of 
case-f low  management  committees  to  speed  up  the 
adjudication  of  civil  and  criminal  cases  is  another 
measure  designed  to  ensure  the  availability  of  timely 
and speedy justice for all.
Tanzania 
is  also  committed 
to  becoming  a 
corruption-free  society.  We  have  established 
the 
Prevention  and  Combating  of  Corruption  Bureau.  The 
Bureau is mandated to prevent and combat corruption, 
educate  society  on  the  effects  of  this  menace  and 
enforce the law against corruption.
International law and the rule of law are the pillars 
of  the  international  system.  The  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  level  becomes  manifest  in  treaties  and 
customary international law as applied and interpreted 
by  international  courts,  including  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  ad  hoc  tribunals,  which  have  enriched  and 
developed  international  law.  It  is  an  effective  tool  for 
addressing global challenges in promoting democracy, 
human  rights,  the  eradication  of  poverty,  sustainable 
development, the fight against international crimes and 
the promotion of justice and peace for all. 
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  attaches  great 
importance to the rule of law at the international level 
At  the  international  level,  Tanzania  has  ratified  a 
number  of  multilateral  treaties  that  bestow  extensive 
obligations upon Member States to observe the rule of 
law.  Tanzania  hosts  the  African  Court  of  Justice  and 
Human  Rights,  the  African  Union  Advisory  Board  on 
Corruption  and  the  Institute  on  International  Law  in 
East  Africa.  Tanzania  is  among  the  African  countries 
that voluntarily subscribed to the African Peer Review 
Mechanism  and  has  agreed  to  be  reviewed  on  four 
thematic  areas:  democracy  and  political  governance, 
economic  governance  and  management,  corporate 
governance, and socio-economic development.
joining 
initiative 
Recently,  Tanzania  committed 
the 
to 
Open  Government  Partnership.  This 
is 
aimed  at  making  Government  business  more  open 
to  its  citizens.  It  is  also  aimed  at  improving  public 
service  delivery,  public/private  partnerships  and 
Government  responsiveness;  combating  corruption; 
and  implementing  measures  to  enhance  transparency 
and  build  greater  trust.  The  Partnership  also  provides 
an  opportunity  for  Tanzania  to  enhance  and  promote 
the rule of law and good governance.
Success  in  the  implementation  of  the  rule  of  law 
depends on how we are able to translate and transform 
this process into concrete action. We are mindful of the 
fact that this requires sustained effort and political will.
In  conclusion,  let  me  once  again  reiterate  my 
Government’s  commitment 
these 
efforts  at  the  national  level  and  appeal  for  continued 
international  cooperation  in  making  possible  a  just, 
fair, secure and peaceful world.
to  spearheading 
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Kairat  Umarov,  Acting  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Umarov  (Kazakhstan):  In  a  time  of  major 
economic,  social  and  political  upheaval,  respect  for 
the rule of law takes on paramount importance for the 
world community. Kazakhstan welcomes the increased 
attention  paid  by  the  United  Nations  to  this  issue  and 
expresses its deep appreciation for the organization of 
the first meeting on the subject at such a high level.
18 
12-51943
We  are  deeply  convinced  that  the  rule  of  law 
manifests  itself  primarily  through  strict  adherence  to 
its  norms  and  principles  in  all  areas  of  public  life.  At 
the  same  time,  the  United  Nations,  which  has  been 
mandated to be a focal point for harmonizing nations’ 
actions to achieve the common objectives set out in its 
Charter,  should  play  a  coordinating  role  here.  In  this 
regard,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  subject  of  today’s 
discussion  (A/66/749),  which  not  only  ref lects  the 
current  challenges  in  the  area  of  the  rule  of  law,  but 
also offers constructive ways to meet them.
The Republic of Kazakhstan has consistently called 
for  strict  compliance  with  universally  accepted  legal 
norms by all members of the international community. 
We  fully  share  the  view  that,  at  the  international 
level,  the  rule  of  law  ensures  the  predictability  and 
legitimacy  of  actions  taken  by  States,  promotes  their 
sovereign equality, and provides the basis for a State’s 
accountability  to  all  individuals  within  its  territory 
who are subject to its jurisdiction.
Over  the  past  20  years  of  nation-building,  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan  has  carried  out  reforms 
in  virtually  all  areas  of  public  and  social  life.  The 
Constitution of the country includes all the guarantees 
needed  for  the  promotion  of  constitutional  legality 
and  the  further  strengthening  of  existing  pillars  of 
a  democratic,  secular,  rule-of-law  and  social  State. 
Kazakhstan  is  party  to  more  than  190  universal 
international  treaties  and  conventions,  primarily  in 
the area of human rights. There is an ongoing process 
of  improving  the  mechanisms  that  ensure  public 
participation in the set-up and exercise of State power 
and the involvement of citizens in State governance. 
Legislative  measures  have  been  taken  to  ensure 
comprehensive  political  pluralism  and  enhance  the 
role  and  status  of  women  in  social  and  political  life. 
Kazakhstan  has  been  progressively 
implementing 
its  strategy  for  gender  equality  and  has  enacted  laws 
on  the  prevention  of  domestic  violence  and  on  State 
guarantees  of  equal  rights  and  equal  opportunities for 
men and women.
We  hope  that  today’s  meeting  will  be  a  starting 
point  for  the  further  development  of  mechanisms  to 
ensure and consolidate the principle of the rule of law. 
As for Kazakhstan, let me assure the Assembly that the 
country will, as always, support efforts to enhance the 
capacity and role of the United Nations legal machinery 
A/67/PV.4
and will continue to work for the promotion of the rule 
of law at all levels.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Audronius  Ažubalis,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Lithuania.
Mr.  Ažubalis  (Lithuania):  My  delegation  fully 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier today 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  I  will  touch  upon 
two  points  of  particular  importance  from  our  national 
perspective and to which we pay particular attention in 
Lithuania’s bid for a non-permanent seat on the Security 
Council for the term 2014-2015.
First,  Lithuania  has  relevant  experience  in  the 
field  of  the  rule  of  law  and  is  willing  to  share  it  with 
others.  Since  the  restoration  of  independence,  more 
than  20  years  ago,  Lithuania  has  had  to  overcome 
serious challenges while building a modern democratic 
State based on the principles of the rule of law. In that 
effort we did not find ourselves alone, but could count 
on  the  support  of  the  international  community.  Today 
Lithuania,  like  other  States  with  modern  experience 
in  comprehensive  reform-making,  is  ready  to  assist 
other  countries  in  their  efforts  to  reform  legal  and 
administrative systems in order to enhance the rule of 
law.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  mention  that 
we have already included the rule of law aspect in our 
development cooperation activities.
to  pursue 
Secondly,  Lithuania  continues 
the 
highest standards in the field of the rule of law. In the 
area  of  our  international  relations,  I  would  like  to  say 
that compliance with voluntarily accepted international 
obligations  and  respect  for  the  universally  recognized 
principles  and  norms  of  international  law  is  the  legal 
tradition  in  Lithuania  as  well  as  a  principle  of  our 
Constitution.  We  therefore  attach  great  importance  to 
the legitimacy of our own actions and expect the same 
from  others.  We  also  believe  that  those  elements,  in 
combination with the settlement of disputes by peaceful 
means referred to in Chapter VI of the United Nations 
Charter, are central in maintaining international peace 
and security.
the 
international 
strengthening  of 
In order to reinforce its international commitments 
and international legal accountability and to contribute 
to 
judicial 
mechanisms,  Lithuania  has  decided  to  recognize  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  in  accordance  with  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of 
the  Court’s  Statute.  The  relevant  declaration,  together 
12-51943
19
A/67/PV.4
with instruments of accession to the Optional Protocols 
to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations 
and  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Consular  Relations 
concerning  the  Compulsory  Settlement  of  Disputes, 
will  be  deposited  during  this  year’s  United  Nations 
treaty event.
That  will  be  a  major  addition  to  the  long  list  of 
specific  treaties  in  respect  to  which  Lithuania  has 
already  recognized  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  It  also 
indicates increased reliance on the international judicial 
system. On the basis of that national decision, I want to 
take  this  opportunity  to  join  those  who  call  for  wider 
international  efforts  to  encourage  recognition  of  the 
Court’s jurisdiction.
The  Republic  of  Lithuania,  on  the  occasion  of 
this  High-level  Meeting,  expresses  its  deep  concern 
about recent attacks on the United States and German 
diplomatic and consular offices in some countries. We 
strongly condemn the outrageous attack on the United 
States  diplomatic  facility  in  Benghazi,  Libya,  which 
took  the  lives  of  four  people,  including  Ambassador 
Chris Stevens. It should definitely be stressed that such 
attacks  are  also  unacceptable  from  the  perspective  of 
the rule of law.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Rafik  Ben  Abdessalem,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Tunisia.
Mr.  Abdessalem  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  our  sincerest 
congratulations to the President of the General Assembly 
on his election to preside over the Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session. I am also pleased to extend my thanks 
and  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, and to Mr. Nasser Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, the 
outgoing President of the Assembly.
The  Arab 
revolutions  erupting  out  of  an 
overwhelming desire for change indicate that the main 
concern  of  Governments  should  be  to  safeguard  their 
peoples’ sovereignty, respect human rights and provide 
the  necessary  conditions  to  guarantee  impartial  and 
free  elections,  justice  and  equality  at  all  levels.  They 
remind us all that comprehensive and strict adherence 
to  international  law  in  the  policies  of  the  State  and  in 
their exercise is fundamental, as is the enhancement of 
the  universal  values  represented  in  the  supremacy  of 
law and human rights. 
That  has  led  to  efforts  to  consolidate  the  rule 
of  law  and  implement  it  on  a  wider  basis,  with  no 
selectivity,  in  order  to  arrive  at  a  world  characterized 
by  justice,  stability  and  opportunities  for  all  without 
discrimination. There is an urgent need to press ahead 
with  effective  cooperation  and  coordination  between 
the  United  Nations,  Member  States  and  all  relevant 
actors,  focusing  on  the  juncture  between  the  national 
and international levels, in order to fulfil our national 
and  international  obligations  and  to  face  up  to  grave 
violations of international law when they are committed. 
That enhances our confidence and the relations among 
States  and  adds  to  the  predictability  of  international 
relations  based  on  the  principles  of  complementarity, 
equality and justice.
Tunisia, which inspired the Arab revolutions, intends 
to  press  ahead  with  efforts  to  lay  solid  foundations 
for  a  democratic,  civil  State.  Our  watchword  is  to  do 
away with the past and to build on the gains made thus 
far  in  a  manner  that  perpetuates  multilateralism,  the 
sovereignty of the people and respect for human rights, 
and to build a State that cherishes the values of equity, 
responsibility  and  equality  before  the  law.  Tunisia 
emphasizes  its  national  commitment  to  streamlining 
its  legislation  to  bring  it  in  line  with  international 
instruments,  in  accordance  with  its  pledges.  That 
goal  is  ref lected  in  our  adoption  and  ratification  of 
several  international  instruments  that  emphasize  the 
supremacy of international rules and principles, which 
are to be implemented without discrimination and with 
full equity. 
To further give expression to that belief, we would 
like  to  emphasize  our  intention  to  include  equality 
between men and women in our Constitution. That has 
become  a  concrete  fact  in  society,  in  which  we  take 
pride. 
We  are  keen  on  supporting  further  legislative  and 
social gains. I would like to highlight the completion of 
the legislative framework by the National Commission 
against  Torture  in  accordance  with  the  Optional 
Protocol to the Convention against Torture, which will 
be discussed nationally and subsequently ratified. 
the  holding  of  free, 
On 23 October 2011, we entered a new institutional 
phase  with 
impartial  and 
transparent  elections,  which  represents  a  tremendous 
historic achievement that enabled the establishment of 
a  national  Constituent  Assembly  and  the  formation  of 
a  Government  deriving  its  legitimacy  from  the  people 
as well as from the Assembly, which is writing a social 
pact for the country. That Constitution safeguards our 
20 
12-51943
people’s  rights  as  citizens  based  on  our  revolution  of 
freedom, justice and dignity.
We emphasize the need for a democratic transition, 
which  can  be  achieved  by  taking  full  account  of  the 
responsibility  of  the  former  regime  as  well  as  of  the 
importance  of  avoiding  the  repetition  of  its  crimes 
by  working  to  establish  a  judiciary  with  integrity  and 
independence. We emphasize the importance of taking 
a  consultative,  consensual,  clear-cut  approach  that 
involves  all  parties  and  components  of  civil  society 
as  well  as  the  victims,  in  order  to  define  our  goals 
and  priorities  and  thus  formulate  a  regional  and  legal 
framework designed to ensure transitional justice. That 
framework  will  be  drafted  by  the  Ministry  of  Human 
Rights  and  Transitional  Justice  in  cooperation  with 
members of society and through a national dialogue. We 
are committed to enacting a transitional justice law in 
consultation with civil society and with the cooperation 
of all parties.
We will continue to move forward in our irreversible 
drive  towards  comprehensive  reform  in  all  areas  and 
sectors.  History  teaches  us,  through  the  experience  of 
others,  that  such  stages  bring  with  them  considerable 
socio-economic challenges. It also shows us that while 
we  must  rely  on  our  own  domestic  capacity  and  will 
to  prevail,  we  still  need  the  continuing  backup  and 
effective support of the international community.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my country’s 
eagerness to cooperate with all its international partners 
in  a  way  that  helps  us  to  benefit  from  the  experience 
of  others,  strengthens  our  capacity  to  respond  to  the 
aspirations of our citizens and opens up new horizons 
on the path to freedom, justice, equality, accountability 
and peace.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency Mr. Saad-Eddine El Othmani, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco.
Mr.  El  Othmani  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I  would  first  like  to  offer  my  sincere  congratulations 
to  the  President  on  his  accession  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. We 
are  confident  that  his  remarkable  diplomatic  qualities 
will  help  crown  our  work  with  success.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his  commitment  to  promoting  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations in the establishment of the rule of law and for 
his participation in this meeting.
A/67/PV.4
The  theme  of  this  meeting  is  the  rule  of  law,  and 
it  has  been  assiduously  prepared  for  over  the  last  two 
years. It presents an opportunity for Member States to 
reaffirm  their  commitment  to  continuing  to  promote 
the rule of law at the national and international levels. 
It  is  an  opportunity  to  evaluate  the  efforts  made  and 
steps  taken  by  the  Organization  and  to  take  stock  of 
our  national  experiences,  with  a  view  to  developing 
a  multilateral  consensus  on  the  ways  of  improving 
the  effectiveness  of  related  activities,  so  that  the 
international  community  can  maintain  a  firm  belief 
in  the  importance  of  the  rule  of  law.  This  meeting 
embodies  our  intensive  participation  in  the  debates 
around that important theme.
Morocco  is  firmly  committed  to  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  and  the  respect  for  human  rights  and  to 
disseminating  the  values  of  tolerance  at  the  national, 
regional  and  international  levels.  We  reiterate  our 
commitment to establishing a multilateral international 
order  based  on  international  law,  an  arena  for  which 
the  United  Nations  is  the  most  appropriate  framework 
in  our  collective  endeavours  aimed  at  creating  an 
international community that enjoys lasting peace and 
respect for human rights. Realizing that vision demands 
a holistic approach, based on the commitment to respect 
all  these  principles.  The  rule  of  law  is  a  fundamental 
pillar  of  United  Nations  efforts  aimed  at  preventing 
armed conf licts and at safeguarding international peace 
and security, especially through the promotion of those 
principles in post-conf lict situations.
In  that  context,  Morocco,  in  accordance  with  its 
commitment  to  support  such  efforts,  has  increased  its 
participation in peacekeeping operations, and supports 
such  missions  around  the  world.  Those  efforts  enjoy 
the  support  of  our  national  institutions,  which  seek 
to  expand  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  in  all  sectors.  In 
that  regard,  only  a  few  days  ago  in  the  city  of  Rabat, 
Morocco,  together  with  the  United  Nations,  Qatar 
and  Norway,  hosted  a  workshop  designed  to  highlight 
the  importance  of  national  capacity-building  in  post-
conf lict  situations  and  affording  the  participants  an 
opportunity to exchange views and experiences.
At the international level, as things stand politically 
and  economically,  it  is  vital  to  place  people  at  the 
heart  of  every  undertaking  by  establishing  a  close 
link  between  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human 
rights. For that we must intensify our efforts in order to 
meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  full.  The 
international community is also duty-bound to continue 
12-51943
21
A/67/PV.4
its efforts, based on the principle of joint responsibility, 
to  deal  with  new  trans-border  threats,  including 
terrorist    and  rebel  movements  and  organized  crime 
networks,  whose  activities  threaten  every  country  in 
the  world,  especially  those  in  Africa,  which  has  seen 
a resurgence of such threats. While the United Nations 
and its specialized agencies have launched programmes 
designed  to  improve  national  capacities  in  the  area  of 
the  rule  of  law,  such  efforts  will  be  futile  unless  they 
are based on a integrated, strategic approach that takes 
into  account  the  priorities  of  the  countries  concerned 
and their cultural and national specifics.
Morocco, under the leadership of King Mohammed 
VI,  has  therefore,  in  order  to  meet  the  aspirations  of 
the Moroccan people, undertaken to strengthen the rule 
of  law  through  an  integrated,  inclusive  approach  that 
has  allowed  us  to  launch  a  major  reform  initiative  to 
establish the rule of law and democratic institutions, as 
well as to promote the role of women.
in 
We  have  also  launched  a  national  development 
initiative  aimed  at  strengthening  national  solidarity 
by  addressing  human  rights  violations.  That  reform 
initiative  culminated 
the  adoption  of  a  new 
Constitution  that  reaffirms  Morocco’s  commitment  to 
establishing a democratic State governed by law and by 
the separation of powers, and which also guarantees the 
independence of the judiciary and enshrines respect for 
human  rights  and  economic  and  political  governance. 
The  Moroccan  approach  in  that  respect  ensures  a 
positive correlation between the values that are deeply 
embedded in Moroccan society and universal values.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
deep  conviction  that  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law 
and  international  governance  are  dependent  on  the 
enhancement  of  national  capacities,  so  that  States  can 
discharge  their  functions  effectively  and  meet  their 
obligations to their citizens.
Morocco is committed to continuing dialogue with 
Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  bodies  taking 
part in this first High-level Meeting on the rule of law 
and to follow up on the outcome of the Meeting. Here 
we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  support  all  regional, 
subregional and international stakeholders that seek to 
promote the values of the rule of law and civil peace.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston  Dookeran,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Trinidad and Tobago.
Mr. Dookeran (Trinidad and Tobago): This High-
level Meeting on the rule of law is a timely expression 
of  the  principal  premise  on  which  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations is predicated. It is a principle that is the 
cornerstone  for  the  conduct  of  international  relations 
among  States  and  the  anchor  of  the  quest  for  good 
governance within our nations.
The path to growth and development, the promotion 
of human rights and the policy strategy to tackle issues 
such  as  climate  change,  poverty  and  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conf licts  are  dependent  on  adherence  to 
the rule of law.
the  challenge  of  good  governance 
In  the  midst  of  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis, 
in  an 
increasingly  diverse  society  and  the  search  for  a 
sustainable  peace  initiative,  observance  of  the  rule  of 
law offers the most durable and reliable basis for lasting 
solutions.
Indeed,  deficits  in  the  practice  of  the  rule  of  law 
exist. We have a golden opportunity to work together to 
address the implementation deficit in the fulfilment of 
our domestic and international legal obligations, which 
has had an impact on the maintenance of the rule of law.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  acknowledges 
the 
responsibility  for  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  lies 
primarily with individual Member States. Consequently, 
our Republican Constitution recognizes that the rule of 
law lies at the heart of the social contract which subsists 
between the State and its citizens.
that 
The  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the 
in  our 
individual  are  protected  and  entrenched 
Constitution, without discrimination by reason of race, 
origin, colour, religion or sex.
Provisions  relating  to  equality  before  the  law  and 
the protection of the law are also safeguarded under the 
supreme law of Trinidad and Tobago. Moreover, those 
are buttressed by the various international human rights 
and other instruments to which Trinidad and Tobago is 
a State party.
Additionally,  our  institutions  or  entities,  whether 
public or private, are accountable to and not above the 
law,  and  disputes  are  adjudicated  by  an  independent 
judiciary which is free from the inf luence or control of 
the executive and the Parliament.
Notwithstanding our efforts over the past 50 years 
as  an  independent  nation,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  also 
22 
12-51943
recognizes  the  interdependence  between  the  rule  of 
law at the national and international levels. That is the 
cardinal principle on the basis of which we conduct our 
foreign relations, whether in the bilateral or multilateral 
spheres. Adherence to the rule of law has also inspired 
us  to  establish  very  productive  relationships  with 
countries in our subregion and hemisphere and further 
afield,  through  the  conclusion  of  several  initiatives 
geared  towards  the  achievement  of  the  sustainable 
economic and social development of our people.
One  of  the  most  important  of  those  schemes  is 
the  revised  Treaty  of  Chaguaramas,  establishing  the 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  including  the 
CARICOM Single Market and Economy.
We 
support 
robustly 
the  Affirmation  of 
Commonwealth  Values  and  Principles,  which  was 
adopted  by  the  Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government 
at  their  meeting  held  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  in  2009. 
That  affirmation,  among  other  things,  indicates  that 
access  to  justice  and  an  independent  judiciary  are 
fundamental to the rule of law, enhanced by effective, 
transparent, ethical and accountable governance.
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  as  a  founding  State  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  also  asserts  that  all 
States  are  obligated  to  investigate  and,  where  there 
is  sufficient  admissible  evidence,  prosecute  persons 
accused of crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court.
To  that  end,  we  have  enacted  legislation  to  give 
full  effect  domestically  to  the  provisions  of  the  Rome 
Statute, in order to prevent impunity for the perpetrators 
of such crimes, thereby protecting the rule of law.
There is no doubt that the rule of law is indispensable 
to the achievement of the three main pillars of the work 
of the United Nations: peace and security, human rights 
and development.
Accordingly, the Assembly, at the beginning of this 
Meeting (see A/67/PV.3), adopted a strong Declaration 
(resolution 67/1) which promotes the rule of law through 
effective  coordination  between  the  United  Nations, 
Member States and all other stakeholders. 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  also  supports  the  call  for 
the  Secretary-General  to  put  the  necessary  measures 
in  place  to  enable  the  General  Assembly  to  engage 
in  follow-up  work  with  a  view  to  developing  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  strengthening  the  rule  of 
law at both the national and international levels.
A/67/PV.4
I  pledge  the  support  of  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago to work more closely 
with  the  United  Nations  and  other  partners  to  combat 
illicit trade in narcotics, small arms and light weapons, 
as well as other transnational organized crimes, which 
pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  rule  of  law  within  the 
CARICOM region, and hence to the peace, security and 
stability of our region.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  John  Luk  Jok,  Minister  of  Justice  of 
South Sudan.
Mr.  Jok  (South  Sudan):  The  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  greatly  appreciates  the  invitation  to  participate 
in  this  important  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
deliberate  on  a  common  catchphrase  and  important 
subject of modem times, namely, the rule of law at both 
the national and international levels.
justice,  human 
The  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  as  the  Assembly  is 
aware,  is  the  newest  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
family,  having  only  attained  sovereign  independence 
last  year,  after  several  decades  of  bitter  struggle  for 
self-determination, 
rights,  human 
dignity, peace and freedom. The independence of South 
Sudan came about as a result of a peaceful, democratic 
and  internationally  monitored  national  referendum 
held  in  January  2011.  The  outcome  of  the  referendum 
was  98.7  per  cent  in  favour  of  the  creation  of  a  new 
independent State of South Sudan. In effect, the people 
of South Sudan have chosen peace and freedom instead 
of  costly  and  perpetual  civil  wars  and  conf licts  with 
the people of the Sudan, to the north, whose dream has 
always  been  to  build  an  Arab  Islamic  identity  in  the 
Republic of the Sudan, which was the predecessor State.
South Sudan has now embarked upon the dual task 
of State- and nation-building as a peace-loving member 
of  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  family. 
South Sudan is committed to building a democratic State 
for all of its ethnically diverse people. It is committed 
to  promoting  justice,  freedom,  human  dignity  and  the 
rule of law, not only at the national level but also at the 
international level, together with the other Members of 
the United Nations.
We  are  therefore  pleased  to  participate  in  this 
meeting  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, dedicated to the important topic of the rule 
of  law.  We  hope  our  contribution  to  this  meeting  will 
provide more understanding of the developments in the 
new Republic of South Sudan, particularly as it pertains 
12-51943
23
A/67/PV.4
to the rule of law at both the national and international 
levels.
The  Republic  of  South  Sudan  takes  cognizance 
and  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level,  based  on  the  development, 
promotion  and  implementation  of  international  norms 
and standards in relevant fields of international law. As 
a  new  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan declares its commitment to the rule of law 
and to an international legal order in which the conduct 
of States in their international relations is based on the 
rule of law, respect for the sovereign equality of States 
and the principles and ideals of the Charter of the United 
Nations for the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  The  Republic  of  South  Sudan  furthermore 
takes note of the ongoing work on the rule of law under 
the auspices of the Secretary-General. We particularly 
acknowledge  the  framework  and  precise  definitions 
provided in the Secretary-General’s 2004 report on the 
rule of law and transitional justice in conf lict and post-
conf lict societies, which states that 
“The ‘rule of law’ is a concept at the very heart 
of the Organization’s mission. It refers to a principle 
of  governance  in  which  all  persons,  institutions 
and entities, public and private, including the State 
itself,  are  accountable  to  laws  that  are  publicly 
promulgated,  equally  enforced  and  independently 
adjudicated,  and  which  are  consistent  with 
international  human  rights  norms  and  standards. 
It  requires,  as  well,  measures  to  ensure  adherence 
to  the  principles  of  supremacy  of  law,  equality 
before  the  law,  accountability  to  the  law,  fairness 
in the application of the law, separation of powers, 
participation  in  decision-making,  legal  certainty, 
avoidance of arbitrariness and procedural and legal 
transparency.” (S/2004/616, para. 6)
That  definition  certainly  summarizes 
the  basic 
concepts that underpin the historical and philosophical 
foundations  of  the  concept  of  the  rule  of  law  from  its 
early origins in history to this day.
Upon  independence,  on  9  July  2011,  South  Sudan 
promulgated  a  transitional  Constitution  under  which 
our  country  is  to  be  governed  until  2015,  when  a  new 
constitution shall be established through a democratic, 
inclusive  and  participatory  process.  Currently,  a 
national  constitutional  review  commission  is  at  work 
collecting views and suggestions from all stakeholders 
in the country on the text of the future constitution. The 
commission was established with due regard to gender 
and the political, social and regional diversity of South 
Sudan,  in  recognition  of  the  need  for  inclusiveness, 
transparency  and  the  equitable  participation  of  all  our 
people.
The  rule  of  law  is  enshrined  in  the  transitional 
Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  of  2011, 
which  is  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  from  which 
authority  at  all  levels  of  Government  is  derived  and 
to  which  all  State  constitutions  must  conform.  The 
Constitution  vests  sovereignty  in  the  people,  and  the 
State exercises that sovereignty through its democratic 
and  representative 
institutions,  established  under 
the  Constitution  and  the  law.  Most  important,  the 
Constitution  proclaims  that  South  Sudan  is  founded 
on  justice,  equality,  respect  for  human  dignity  and 
the  advancement  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.
The  supreme  law  of  our  country  embodies  a  bill 
of rights that is a covenant among the people of South 
Sudan and between them and their Government at every 
level, and a commitment to respect and promote human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  guaranteed  in  the 
Constitution. The bill of rights is taken seriously as the 
cornerstone  of  social  justice,  equality  and  democracy 
by all institutions of Government and the people.
independence, 
The  independence  of  the  judiciary,  including 
financial 
the 
Constitution.  The  judiciary  is  the  custodian  of  the 
Constitution and has the power to review any executive 
or  legislative  act  that  does  not  conform  with  the 
Constitution.
is  guaranteed  by 
Consistent with international human rights law, the 
transitional  Constitution  embodies  a  bill  of  rights  that 
guarantees  the  sanctity  of  rights  and  freedoms  —  the 
right to life, human dignity, personal liberty; freedom 
from  slavery,  servitude,  and  forced  labour;  equality 
before the law; the right to found a family; the rights of 
women;  the  rights  of  the  child;  freedom  from  torture; 
the right to a fair trial and litigation; restriction on the 
death  penalty;  the  right  to  privacy;  religious  rights; 
freedom of expression and media; freedom of assembly 
and  association  and  to  form  political  parties;  the right 
to  participate  in  public  life  and  to  vote;  freedom  of 
movement and residence; the right to own property; the 
right  to  education;  the  rights  of  persons  with  special 
needs  and  the  elderly;  public  health  care;  the  right  of 
access to information; the rights of ethnic and cultural 
communities; and the right to housing.
24 
12-51943
Those  rights  are  guaranteed  in  our  Constitution. 
That  bill  of  rights  is  justiciable  before  courts  of  law, 
and therefore enforceable.
To  ensure  national  implementation,  South  Sudan, 
following  independence  last  year,  embarked  on  the 
enormous  task  of  building  its  legal  system  from 
the  ground  up  following  its  disconnection  from  the 
old  Sudanese  legal  system.  While  building  those 
legal  frameworks,  we  are  also  currently  engaging 
in  a  process  of  identifying  multilateral  and  regional 
treaties  and  agreements  for  the  purpose  of  their 
ratification,  or  for  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  to 
accede  to  those  international  treaties  and  agreements, 
in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  requirements 
of  our  Constitution.  That  process  will  facilitate  the 
incorporation into domestic law of relevant international 
treaties,  covenants,  agreements  and  protocols  in  order 
to ensure their national enforcement. 
South  Sudan  has  so  far  acceded  to  a  number 
of  important  international  treaties  and  agreements, 
including  the  four  Geneva  Conventions  of  1949  and 
their  additional  Protocols,  and  agreements  relating 
to  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  World  Bank 
Group  institutions.  South  Sudan  has  incorporated 
those  instruments  into  its  domestic  laws.  There  is 
ongoing work between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs 
and  the  Ministry  of  Justice  to  update  the  situation  so 
that  our  country  accedes  to  all  international  human 
rights  conventions  and  treaties  in  the  coming  months. 
Already, with the support of the United Nations Mission 
in  our  country,  we  have  been  able  to  hold  workshops 
to address procedures for accession to, and ratification 
of,  treaties.  We  are  grateful  for  the  cooperation  of  the 
United Nations Mission in South Sudan.
In  spite  of  the  progress  made  so  far,  South  Sudan 
to  require  more  capacity-building 
will  continue 
support,  possibly  through  bilateral  and  multilateral 
assistance and the integrated response provided by the 
Secretary-General. In strengthening the treaty bodies, 
as  I  have  already  mentioned,  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  is  working  with  the  United  Nations  Mission  in 
South  Sudan  and  other  multilateral  bodies  to  develop 
strong and effective institutions in the area of the rule 
of law by providing training to the rule of law sectors, 
including  the  judiciary,  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  the 
correctional services and the police. The support of the 
United  Nations,  although  limited  in  nature,  is  greatly 
appreciated. 
A/67/PV.4
Building  rule-of-law  institutions  remains  one  of 
the most challenging tasks our country is undertaking. 
As our nation is just one year old, it is still challenged 
by various difficulties, as it lacks capacity in the areas 
of the rule of law. In that regard, South Sudan is seeking 
the support of the United Nations so that in promoting 
the  noble  idea  of  the  rule  of  law  we  have  the  capacity 
to  carry  out  our  obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
With  regard  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  strengthening  its  role,  South  Sudan  recognizes 
the  importance  of  the  international  dispute  resolution 
mechanisms.  South  Sudan  is  therefore  committed  to 
utilizing the forum of the International Court of Justice 
and  other  adjudicative  bodies  and  mechanisms  for  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes. From its inception, the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  which  led  to  the 
independence  of  South  Sudan,  was  brokered  through 
such international mechanisms. Moreover, South Sudan, 
even before its independence from the Sudan, agreed to 
a  settlement  by  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration  at 
The  Hague  on  the  Abyei  boundary  dispute  between  it 
and the Sudan. Furthermore, South Sudan fully accepts 
the  recommendations  of  Security  Council  resolution 
2046  (2012)  and  has  agreed  to  peaceful  negotiations 
with the Sudan, facilitated by the African Union High-
level  Implementation  Panel  under  the  leadership  of 
President Thabo Mbeki.
As for strengthening the rule of law at the national 
level,  the  transitional  Constitution  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Sudan  incorporates  important  principles  that 
guarantee  access  to  services  for  marginalized  and 
vulnerable  groups.  The  Constitution  also  requires  all 
levels of Government to enact laws to combat harmful 
customs and traditions that undermine the dignity and 
status of women and to promote the rights of women to 
own property and share in the estates of their deceased 
husbands together with any surviving heirs. It requires 
the provision of maternity care, child care and medical 
care  for  pregnant  and  lactating  women.  Furthermore, 
the Constitution also provides for the right of the child 
to life, survival and development and not to be subjected 
to exploitative practices or abuse, nor to be required to 
serve  in  the  army  or  permitted  to  perform  work  that 
may be hazardous or harmful to the child’s education, 
health or well-being. 
As I said, the Assembly will definitely acknowledge 
that  I  represent  the  youngest  Member  of  the  United 
Nations.  So  I  appeal  to  the  President  to  allow  me  to 
12-51943
25
A/67/PV.4
finish  my  statement  as  a  privilege  for  the  youngest 
member of the community here. 
Our Constitution requires all levels of Government 
to  guarantee  the  right  of  persons  with  disabilities  or 
special  needs  to  participate  in  society  and  to  enjoy 
rights  and  freedoms,  especially  access  to  public 
facilities,  suitable  education  and  employment.  All 
levels  of  Government  are  also  required  to  ensure  that 
the elderly and persons with special needs are accorded, 
with  dignity,  the  medical  services  and  care  necessary 
for their health.
With  regard  to  accountability,  the  Government  of 
South Sudan recognizes that the basic principles of open 
Government  are  key  to  achieving  public  confidence 
in  Government.  To  that  end,  the  Government  has 
established  legal  and  institutional  frameworks  in  the 
areas  of  anti-corruption  efforts,  public  financing, 
accounting  and  management,  anti-money-laundering, 
public  auditing  and  public  employee  grievance 
mechanisms.  In  addition  to  those  legal  frameworks, 
new legislation pertaining to the public’s right of access 
to  information  has  been  presented  to,  and  is  under 
deliberation by, our Parliament.
Nevertheless,  significant  funding  and  technical 
assistance  for  design,  planning  and  implementation 
in  areas  such  as  the  programme  for  the  protection  of 
whistle-blowers  and  witness  protection  is  required  if 
they are to be made active. However, in its development 
plan, the Government ensures that public participation 
and  engagement 
in  policy  and  decision-making 
processes are an integral part of good governance, the 
rule of law and accountability.
With regard to national data collection, South Sudan 
is  committed  to  strengthening  its  service  delivery  by 
improving  the  organizational  management  of  rule  of 
law institutions, including the establishment of policies 
for the improvement of services. Work is already under 
way  through  the  South  Sudan  judiciary  action  plan 
2011-2014, the Ministry of Justice strategic framework 
2012-2013, and the Ministry of the Interior action plan 
for  2012.  However,  as  a  new  nation  emerging  from 
conf lict, there is enormous need for technical support, 
capacity  development  and  programming  to  ensure 
effectiveness and efficiency in policy development and 
implementation.
In 
terms  of  civil 
transitional 
Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  includes 
provisions  relating  to  the  freedom  of  assembly  and 
society, 
the 
association and the right to participation and voting. The 
Government has already established legal frameworks 
for  political  parties,  elections  and  electoral  law.  The 
legal  and  institutional  framework  for  the  professional 
associations  of  lawyers  and  other  civil  society  and 
professional groups is also under way. The Government 
recognizes its partnership with civil society. 
Even  before  South  Sudan’s  independence,  civil 
society  organizations  were  actively 
in 
addressing  many  social  and  public  needs  within 
southern  Sudan.  The  Government  is  committed  to 
supporting  civil  society  organizations  in  their  efforts 
to  effectively  strengthen  the  voice  of  the  citizens  by 
empowering them.
involved 
In 
informal 
terms  of 
traditional  and 
the  Constitution 
justice 
systems, 
recognizes  customary 
law  and  traditional  institutions,  allowing  them  to 
function  alongside  formal  justice  sector  institutions. 
The  traditional  and  informal  sector  is  functioning  in 
accordance  with  the  Constitution  and  the  law.  Under 
the Local Government Act, customary law councils and 
courts are established with appointed judges. However, 
there  still  remain  major  conf lict  areas  between  the 
traditional  justice  mechanisms  and  the  formal  legal 
system. 
In  supporting  peace  and  security  in  conf lict  and 
post-conf lict  situations,  as  a  nation  emerging  from 
a  long  civil  war,  security  continues  to  be  a  concern 
for  the  Government  of  South  Sudan,  especially  with 
regard  to  interference  coming  from  the  north  from 
our  former  compatriots  in  the  Sudan.  The  impact 
of  continued  armed  conf lict  in  parts  of  the  country 
affects the implementation of rule-of-law programmes, 
the  security  of  citizens  and  human  rights.  Moreover, 
in  the  aftermath  of  conf lict,  South  Sudan  lacks  the 
capacity and financial resources required to implement 
initiatives  and  programmes  within 
justice  sector 
institutions to mitigate the causes and consequences of 
insecurity.
However,  we  are  in  dialogue  with  our  neighbour 
the  Sudan,  in  order  to  resolve  all  outstanding  issues 
through  peaceful  means,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Together with the United 
Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan, South 
Sudan is currently providing training for justice sector 
institutions  to  increase  their  presence  throughout  the 
country,  improve  their  efficiency  and  effectiveness 
and  gradually  improve  overall  peace  and  security 
throughout the country.
26 
12-51943
A/67/PV.4
With  respect  to  sustainable  human  development, 
even prior to independence, South Sudan had continually 
endeavoured to develop and promote legal frameworks 
for business and to foster an enabling environment that 
supports entrepreneurship and the growth of small- and 
medium-size enterprises. Some of the legal frameworks 
already  developed  to  boost  private  sector  investment 
include  investment  promotion,  consumer  protection 
laws and regulations relating to companies, cooperative 
societies,  the  sale  of  goods,  import  and  export, 
registration  of  businesses,  partnerships,  contracts  and 
agencies, to mention but a few. Recently, South Sudan 
acceded  to  a  variety  of  conventions  and  other  legal 
frameworks  through  membership  in  the  International 
Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group institutions. 
However,  South  Sudan  is  still  hampered  by  severe 
capacity  deficits  in  its  efforts  to  foster  an  enabling 
environment for sustainable human development.
With  respect  to  fighting  corruption,  as  a  new 
State,  South  Sudan  has  limited  legal  frameworks 
for  dealing  with  that  problem,  but  it  has  taken  major 
steps  to  develop  mechanisms  and  create  institutions 
by  which  accountability  can  be  ensured.  We  have 
an  anti-corruption  commission  within  the  Ministry 
of  Justice  and  other  bodies  whose  role  is  to  check 
corruption in public life.
Finally, I would be remiss if I did not mention the 
rights of women and children. Our Constitution includes 
affirmative  action  specifically  designed  to  empower 
women.  We  set  aside  25  per  cent  of  the  seats  in  all 
decision-making institutions for women. Thanks to that 
policy, South Sudanese women currently participate in 
various  areas  of  public  life  through  social  networks, 
women’s groups, political parties, and in the executive 
and legislative bodies of our Government. With regard 
to  empowering  children,  our  Constitution  and  bill  of 
rights provides for the protection of the child, including 
the  right  to  life,  survival  and  development,  and  name 
and nationality. The Constitution also protects children 
from all forms of discrimination, corporal punishment 
in  schools,  cruel  and  inhuman  treatment,  and  from 
being  subjected 
to  negation  or  harmful  cultural 
practices  that  affect  child  health.  In  short,  we  have 
already incorporated the United Nations Convention on 
the Rights of the Child into our domestic law. 
In  conclusion,  as  a  new  nation,  South  Sudan  is 
committed to strengthening the nexus between the rule 
of law at the national, regional and international levels 
in  order  to  ensure  accountability  for  perpetrators  of 
international crimes and other gross violations of human 
rights.  We  stand  ready  to  cooperate  in  investigations 
and  prosecutions  of  international  crimes.  However,  at 
present, due to inadequate capacity within our domestic 
institutions, assistance is needed to support our rule-of-
law institutions in investigating, prosecuting and trying 
perpetuators of international or transboundary crimes. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 
12-51943
27
