United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
45th plenary meeting
Thursday, 29 November 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.45
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Flores 
(Honduras), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m. 
Agenda item 37 (continued)
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/67/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/364)
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.17, A/67/L.18, 
A/67/L.19 and A/67/L.20)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  shall  now 
continue  hearing  statements  in  explanation  of  vote  on 
resolution 67/19.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I 
thank  the  President  for  the  opportunity  to  explain  our 
vote  today.  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  commend  the 
presence  of  President  Mahmoud  Abbas,  who  carries 
with him the aspirations of the people of Palestine. On 
this  special  day,  we  also  wish  to  extend  our  hand  of 
friendship  in  observance  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. We are pleased 
that  today  the  Assembly  has  taken  time  to  revisit  its 
previous commitments to Palestine dating back to 1947, 
which gave hope for the existence of independent Arab 
and Jewish States. Today the Assembly has reaffirmed 
its previous decisions by granting Palestine non-member 
observer State status in the United Nations.
On several occasions, the Assembly has reasserted 
its commitment in support of a comprehensive, just and 
lasting  solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine.  We  have 
often joined in reaffirming the vision and objective of 
the two States — Israel and Palestine — living side by 
side  within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  We  have 
witnessed numerous pledges of support for that cause. 
We have heard many voices pleading to see that struggle 
brought  to  its  conclusion.  The  right  things  have  been 
said over time. Now the right thing has been done, even 
if  it  still  falls  short  of  Palestine’s  full  membership  in 
this  body.  The  promises  and  commitments  made  have 
to be kept.
Our  vote  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19  granting 
non-member  observer  State  status  is  an  illustration  of 
our  support  for  the  legitimate  cause  of  the  people  of 
Palestine. The resolution presented the Assembly with 
yet  another  opportunity  to  recognize  the  independent 
State of Palestine, as it has recognized the State of Israel. 
To  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  both  States  are  a 
reality.  The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  recognized 
Palestine  as  a  State  at  its  independence  in  1961  and 
established  diplomatic  relations  soon  thereafter.  We 
have  always  expressed  solidarity  with  the  people  of 
Palestine  in  their  quest  to  realize  their  inalienable 
right  to  self-determination.  We  are  optimistic  that  the 
enhanced status granted today by the Assembly to the 
State  of  Palestine  will  provide  renewed  impetus  to 
the  parties  to  pursue  vigorously  all  efforts  to  create  a 
conducive environment for the resumption of direct and 
meaningful negotiations, as called for by the Secretary-
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-62131 (E)
*1262131*
A/67/PV.45
General  in  his  report  before  the  Assembly  today 
(A/67/364).
viable States living side by side, as provided for by the 
1993 Oslo Accords.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate Tanzania’s undying 
commitment  to  the  establishment  of  an  independent, 
sovereign,  democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  State  of 
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security and 
within  secure  and  recognized  borders,  with  the  State 
of Israel.
Mr. Nazario (South Sudan): In voting in favour of 
resolution 67/19, South Sudan supports the right to self-
determination  of  the  people  of  Palestine.  As  outlined 
in  the  resolution,  the  self-determination  of  all  peoples 
is  a  right  guaranteed  under  the  Charter,  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as 
well  as  a  host  of  declarations  and  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Indeed,  that  principle  accounts  for 
the independence of many countries represented in this 
global Organization.
the 
in 
international 
Although  an  established  right,  self-determination 
is nonetheless constrained by a number of contradictory 
qualifications 
the 
affirmation  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  nation  State  and 
the  territorial  integrity  of  State  borders.  Except  for 
the  well-recognized 
from  colonial 
domination, self-determination is always contentious. 
law,  such  as 
independence 
As is well known, we in South Sudan achieved our 
post-colonial  self-determination  from  the  Republic  of 
the Sudan after a struggle that lasted half a century. In 
the end, we achieved our self-determination as the result 
of a negotiated peace agreement. That is why we believe 
that,  in  the  context  of  a  conf lict  between  two  identity 
groups  contesting  the  right  of  self-determination  and 
the  establishment  of  an  independent  State  that  would 
qualify for membership in the United Nations, the most 
practical and viable outcome is a negotiated agreement. 
Even  with  an  agreement  that  results  in  independence, 
as  our  own  case  between  South  Sudan  and  the  Sudan 
testifies,  problems  can  also  arise  after  the  exercise  of 
self-determination resulting in independence. 
That  is  why  we  voted  for  the  principle  of  self-
determination for the people of Palestine, but encourage 
the parties to negotiate an agreement that can guarantee 
self-determination  and 
the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State.  Therefore,  my  country 
supports  the  continuation  of  negotiations  between 
Israel  and  the  Palestinians  aimed  at  establishing  two 
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands):  The  Netherlands 
aligns itself with the statement of the European Union, 
which will be made during the debate later on. 
The  Netherlands  strongly  supports  a  peace 
agreement  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  on  the 
basis  of  a  two-State  solution,  based  on  the  borders  of 
1967,  whereby  the  State  of  Israel  and  an  independent, 
democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  State  of  Palestine 
will be living side by side in peace and security. Such 
an  agreement  would  bring  a  much  needed  end  to  the 
conf lict  between  Palestinians  and  Israelis  and  would 
also benefit the stability and prosperity in the region as 
a whole. The current status quo is untenable. 
The Palestinian aspiration, as expressed in resolution 
67/19,  is  legitimate,  and  the  Netherlands  supports  the 
Palestinian  efforts  to  achieve  statehood.  However,  we 
would have preferred the resolution to be postponed, as 
its adoption at this moment could complicate efforts to 
resume direct negotiations between the parties. For that 
reason, the Netherlands decided to abstain.
The Netherlands calls for an urgent resumption of 
negotiations  leading  to  an  end  of  the  conf lict  through 
a  comprehensive  peace  agreement  on  the  basis  of  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions;  the  Madrid 
principles, including land for peace; the road map; the 
agreements  previously  reached  by  the  parties  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative. The Netherlands stands ready to 
support those negotiations and will continue to support 
both Israel and the Palestinians bilaterally, taking into 
careful  account  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinians  for 
statehood and those of the Israelis for security. 
We  urge  both  sides  to  take  the  necessary  steps  to 
make progress towards a final peace agreement and to 
refrain from actions that might undermine the prospects 
for a two-State solution. In particular, we call on Israel 
to end all settlement activities. The Netherlands urges 
the international community, in particular the Quartet, 
to  offer  its  full  support  for  the  achievement  of  a 
comprehensive peace agreement.
Mr. Yamazaki (Japan): Japan has long understood 
the  Palestinians’  aspirations  to  build  an  independent 
State  and  has  supported  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people to self-determination. Japan therefore endorses 
the two-State solution, under which Israel and a future 
independent  Palestinian  State  would  coexist  side  by 
side  in  peace  and  security.  In  the  light  of  that,  Japan 
2 
12-62131
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19,  on  the  status  of 
Palestine in the United Nations.
the 
Japan  believes  that,  following  the  adoption  of 
that  historic  resolution,  Palestine  will  assume  greater 
responsibility  as  a  member  of 
international 
community.  We  strongly  urge  Palestine  to  exert  more 
earnest  efforts  towards  the  realization  of  peace  in  the 
Middle  East.  Japan  requests  both  Palestine  and  Israel 
to  establish  relations  of  mutual  trust  and  to  promptly 
return to the negotiating table with a view to realizing 
the two-State solution. Japan will also continue to make 
an  active  contribution  to  moving  the  peace  process 
forward in cooperation with the United States, the Arab 
countries and other partners. It is not acceptable to use 
the  resolution  just  adopted  to  act  in  a  way  that  could 
negatively  affect  or  hinder  direct  negotiations  with 
Israel.
Israel, for its part, should improve the environment 
so as to promote the resumption of peace negotiations, 
including  by  freezing  settlement  activities.  In  that 
regard,  Japan  makes  the  two  following  requests  of 
Palestine in relation to the resolution. 
First,  we  call  on  Palestine  to  immediately  resume 
direct  negotiations  with  Israel  in  order  to  move  the 
peace process forward in a tangible way in cooperation 
with  the  international  community.  Secondly,  we  call 
for  prudence  in  its  conduct,  such  as  with  regard  to 
accession  to  international  organizations.  Such  actions 
might negatively affect the prospects for the resumption 
of negotiations.
today, 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Sixty-five  years  ago 
this  body  adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  which  established  the  Plan  of 
Partition  of  the  territory  under  British  mandate  in 
Palestine. Costa Rica was one of the 33 countries that, 
at  that  time,  recognized  that  the  coexistence  of  two 
independent States was the necessary solution. 
Costa  Rica  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19,  on 
the  status  of  Palestine,  which  enables  it  to  become  a 
non-member observer State to the United Nations, in the 
belief that that step reaffirms the desire of both peoples 
for peace. We also believe that it helps to preserve the 
two-State  solution,  which  improves  the  prospects  for 
future negotiations between Israel and Palestine.
Furthermore,  our  decision  is  consistent  with  the 
recognition  that  we  granted  to  the  State  of  Palestine 
in  2008  and  with  our  support  for  its  admission  into 
UNESCO.  The  current  leaders  of  the  Palestinian 
A/67/PV.45
National  Authority  and  of  Israel  deserve  our  support. 
They  are  the  legitimate  alternatives  to  terrorism  and 
extremism  and  to  the  many  actors  seeking  to  thwart 
peace.
Costa Rica underscores the fact that peace will be 
the result of moderate voices that accept the coexistence 
of two independent States, living side by side in security 
within  internationally  agreed  and  recognized  borders. 
In  that  conviction,  Costa  Rica  has  always  advocated 
and  will  advocate  for  the  right  of  Israel  to  exist  free 
of  external  threats,  in  particular  that  of  terrorism. 
Similarly,  Costa  Rica  is  convinced  of  the  need  for  the 
existence  of  an  independent,  sovereign,  democratic 
and  viable  Palestinian  State.  It  is  the  fervent  goal  of 
our  country  that  the  parties,  working  together,  should 
resolve  the  differences  that  have  so  long  thwarted  the 
right of both peoples to live in peace and security.
We  strongly  appeal  to  the  authorities  of  Israel 
and  Palestine  to  return  to  negotiations  on  the  core 
outstanding issues of the conf lict in the understanding 
that  such  negotiations  would  be  based  on  existing 
obligations  and  previous  agreements  of  the  parties,  in 
accordance with international law and Security Council 
and General Assembly resolutions. 
Mr. 
Rosenthal 
in 
(spoke 
(Guatemala) 
in 
Spanish):  Guatemala  abstained 
the  voting  on 
resolution  67/19,  just  adopted,  despite  the  fact  that 
we  accept  the  principle  of  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-
determination and firmly support the establishment of 
an independent and sovereign State for the Palestinian 
people  under  the  well-known  formula  of  two  States 
living side and side in peace within secure borders.
The  reason  for  our  abstention  is  that  we  are  not 
ready  to  grant  observer  State  status  to  an  entity  that 
we  have  still  not  recognized  as  a  State.  We  remain 
convinced that reaching the final stage of establishing 
the  State  of  Palestine  should  come  as  the  outcome  of 
direct  negotiations  between  the  Palestinian  National 
Authority and Israel. We think that that formula is the 
only  way  to  ensure  peace,  security  and  stability,  not 
only  between  Israel  and  its  immediate  neighbours  but 
also in the entire Middle East. 
Mr. González de Linares Palou (Spain) (spoke in 
Spanish): Spain voted in favour of resolution 67/19, on 
the status of Palestine in the United Nations. Our vote 
demonstrates  the  firm  and  irreversible  commitment 
of  my  country  to  a  just  and  lasting  peace  between 
Israelis and Palestinians. Having said that, Spain aligns 
12-62131
3
A/67/PV.45
itself with the statement to be made later today by the 
observer of the European Union.
If  the  peace  process  had  moved  forward,  in  line 
with  the  road  map  outlined  in  the  Quartet’s  statement 
of  23  September  2011  (SG/2178),  perhaps  today’s  vote 
could  have  been  avoided.  Regrettably  however,  the 
peace process has remained at an impasse, and threats 
to the viability of a two-State solution, with Israel and 
Palestine  living  together  in  peace  and  security,  have 
increased.
Spain  is  convinced  that  the  establishment  of 
an  independent,  sovereign,  democratic  and  viable 
Palestinian State is key to resolving the conf lict and that 
that will positively affect the security and well-being of 
Israel,  the  normalization  of  regional  relations  and  the 
entire  international  community.  A  just  and  peaceful 
solution  can  only  come  as  the  result  of  negotiations 
between the parties based on relevant Security Council 
resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  including 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Quartet  road  map 
and  the  agreements  that  were  previously  reached.  The 
Arab Peace Initiative of 2002 is another important tool 
for achieving a solution. 
In that context, Spain calls upon the Government of 
Israel and the Palestinian National Authority to urgently 
go back to the negotiating table, without preconditions 
and  in  good  faith,  while  rejecting  any  act  or  measure 
that might postpone the peace that we all yearn for. 
(Mexico) 
Mr.  Pintado 
(spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  Government  of  Mexico  voted 
in  favour  of 
resolution 67/19. However, we would like to explain our 
position on that subject. 
Mexico reiterates its full and unconditional support 
for  resolution  181  (II),  in  which  the  international 
community  decided  to  establish  two  States,  an  Arab 
State and a Jewish State. Mexico has not strayed from 
that  historical  position.  Without  reservations,  we 
declare that Israel and Palestine have the right to live as 
independent and democratic States that coexist in peace 
within safe and internationally recognized borders. We 
know that the adoption of the resolution today will not 
per  se  substantially  change  the  conditions  that  prevail 
in that region. 
However,  we  harbour  the  hope  that  the  decision 
that we have taken will provide a vigorous impetus, in 
the  end,  to  make  the  long-yearned  for  comprehensive 
solution to the conf lict on the basis of two States a reality. 
That is why Mexico urgently calls for the resumption of 
the peace process through direct negotiations between 
the  parties  without  preconditions  and  with  a  genuine 
desire to find a solution to all of the outstanding issues, 
such  as  the  definition  of  the  borders,  the  question  of 
refugees, security arrangements and the final status of 
Jerusalem. 
Mexico  expresses  its  support  for  the  leadership  of 
the Palestinian National Authority as the only legitimate 
representative  of  the  Palestinian  people,  and  we  urge 
it  to  comply  with  its  responsibilities  and  not  delay  in 
resuming  negotiations.  Mexico  condemns  all  acts  of 
provocation or violence, which mainly affect the civilian 
population of either party. Those acts have mostly come 
from terrorist groups that do not recognize the right of 
Israel  to  exist  and  which  represent  an  ongoing  threat 
to  stability  in  the  region  and  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
Mr.  Makharoblishvili  (Georgia):  At  the  outset, 
allow  me  to  note  that  Georgia  has  aligned  itself  with 
the statement to be delivered shortly by the observer of 
the European Union on the issue at hand. Nevertheless, 
I would like, in my national capacity, to provide a few 
additional  points  that  we  deem  important  to  explain 
why Georgia voted in favour of resolution 67/19. 
Georgia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  a  two-State 
solution and its conviction that progress in the Middle 
East peace process is urgent. As a country in proximity 
to  the  Middle  East  and  sharing  its  historical  heritage 
and  geographic  predicaments,  we  are  sympathetic  to 
the  aspirations  of  the  people  in  the  region,  including 
those  of  the  Palestinians  for  statehood  and  those  of 
the  Israelis  for  security.  Both  are  crucial  elements  for 
achieving lasting peace, stability and prosperity in the 
wider region.
Ending  the  conf lict  is  of  paramount  importance, 
and that can only be achieved through a comprehensive 
peace  agreement  based  on  negotiations  between 
the  parties.  We  therefore  urge  the  parties  to  resume 
negotiations without preconditions, and we welcome the 
positive signals that we have heard in recent days to that 
end.  Our  understanding  is  that  the  resolution  confers 
on  Palestine  privileges  and  rights  that  are  equivalent 
to  those  of  non-member  States  and  only  within  the 
General  Assembly.  Georgia  does  not  consider  that  the 
decision  endows  Palestine  with  the  automatic  right  to 
join international institutions and treaties as a State. It 
must also be considered to be without prejudice to the 
need for direct bilateral negotiations in accordance with 
existing  agreements  between  the  parties  to  establish 
4 
12-62131
a  Palestinian  State  living  in  peace  and  security  with 
Israel.
Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): The Government of Jamaica 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19  on  the  status 
of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations  based  on  a  firm 
commitment  to  a  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East. Jamaica has long held the position that a solution 
to the situation in the Middle East can be brought about 
only  through  the  peaceful  negotiated  settlement  of  a 
two-State  solution.  Jamaica  has  historically  sought 
to  maintain  a  balance  on  that  issue,  which,  of  course, 
includes Israel’s right to exist within secure borders. 
Jamaica fully respects and abides by the principles 
and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the  norms  of  international  law.  Our  support  for  the 
resolution is therefore based on the understanding that 
the  granting  of  non-member  observer  State  status  to 
Palestine within the United Nations is on the same basis 
as that given to the Holy See. For Jamaica, support for 
non-member  observer  State  status  within  the  United 
Nations  for  Palestine  is  not  equivalent  to  support  for 
automatic  or  immediate  membership  by  Palestine  in 
the  United  Nations.  Our  position  on  the  resolution  is 
therefore without prejudice to any future decision that 
the Government of Jamaica may take in relation to any 
application  by  Palestine  for  full  membership  in  the 
United Nations.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  67/19  to  raise  the  Palestinian  status  in  the 
United  Nations  to  that  of  non-member  observer  State. 
That step is in keeping with the position of principle of 
our country. As is well known, Russia decided, in 1988, 
to  recognize  the  declaration  of  Palestinian  statehood. 
For some time now, there has been a working Palestinian 
Embassy in Moscow. 
We consider the support given to today’s resolution 
by the majority of the countries of the world serves as an 
important  milestone  in  reinstating  historical  equality. 
On this day 65 years ago, a well-known resolution was 
adopted on the partition of the Palestinian mandate into 
two  States  (resolution  181  (II)).  Half  of  the  resolution 
was  implemented,  and  now  it  is  important  that  an 
independent  and  viable  Palestinian  State  exist  side  by 
side with Israel in peace and security. 
In 
the  view  of  authoritative 
international 
organizations,  inf luential  regional  groupings  and  the 
majority  of  countries  of  the  world,  the  Palestinian 
A/67/PV.45
National  Authority  has  been  able  over  the  past  few 
years  to  take  great  strides  forward  in  establishing  a 
Palestinian  State  by  laying  the  necessary  foundations. 
The  primary  issue  hampering  the  realization  of  the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  is 
foreign occupation. In voting in favour of the resolution, 
we took into account the assurances given to us by the 
Palestinian  Government  regarding  the  fact  that  the 
step they have taken does not seek to target Israel, nor 
does  it  seek  to  isolate  that  country,  and  that  there  is 
no  alternative  to  political  negotiations  to  resolve  the 
issues. 
We  are  counting  on  a  responsible  and  measured 
reaction  from  Israel  and  other  interested  parties 
regarding the upgrading of the status of Palestine in the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  any  activities  aimed 
at taking revenge on the Palestinians for their political 
approach  in  the  United  Nations  would  constitute  the 
collective punishment of a people as a whole and that, for 
us, would be categorically unacceptable. We believe it 
important that, as promised by the Palestinian National 
Authority,  the  upgrading  of  the  Palestinian  status  in 
the United Nations should lead to a swift resumption of 
substantive  negotiations  between  Palestine  and  Israel 
on all final status issues.
For  its  part,  Russia,  as  an  active  member  of  the 
international community and the Quartet, will continue 
to do its utmost to foster, in the Quartet talks among other 
forums, a resumption of Palestinian-Israeli talks on the 
basis of accepted international law. In order to conduct 
a comprehensive analysis of the status of a Palestinian-
Israeli settlement and overcome the stalemate, we have 
called for the convening of a ministerial meeting of the 
Quartet.
Mr.  Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  take  the  f loor  to 
explain  Papua  New  Guinea’s  vote  on  resolution  67/19. 
Papua New Guinea recognizes both Israel and Palestine 
and  will  continue  to  do  so.  Papua  New  Guinea  has 
continued  to  abstain  in  the  voting  on  many  issues 
that  concern  both  Israel  and  Palestine.  That  is  on  the 
basis  of  the  belief  that,  ultimately,  any  resolution  of 
that  long  outstanding  and  protracted  matter  is  for 
the  people  of  both  Israel  and  Palestine  to  determine. 
Regrettably,  too  many  lives  have  been  lost,  and  there 
has  been  untold  suffering  and  immeasurable  damage 
to  property  belonging  to  both  parties  over  too  many 
years,  especially  during  the  past  few  weeks.  Papua 
New  Guinea  commends  all  the  parties  who  were  able 
12-62131
5
A/67/PV.45
to secure the recent ceasefire, which is by all accounts 
holding up. 
Papua  New  Guinea’s  own  experience  of  a  bloody 
internal  civil  conf lict,  which  ended  with  a  peace 
process,  continuously  serves  to  reminds  us  that  the 
parties  to  a  conf lict  must  sit  down  and  negotiate  their 
peace in good faith, as there is no other credible process. 
Without that important and fundamental step, any other 
form  of  negotiations  must  and  will  fail.  We  therefore 
urge  both  Israel  and  Palestine  to  resume  peace  talks 
as  soon  as  practicable  and  without  preconditions.  We 
continue to strongly support the two-State solution, and 
it remains our hope that the peoples of both Israel and 
Palestine  will  one  day  soon  live  side  by  side,  within 
properly  secured  borders,  under  a  durable,  just  and 
long-lasting peace. 
It is from that perspective that Papua New Guinea 
abstained today. We respect the outcome of the General 
Assembly’s vote, while we also remain mindful of the 
fact that it is the Security Council’s mandate to decide 
on Palestine’s full membership to the United Nations.
Mr. Shin Dong Ik (Republic of Korea): The Republic 
of Korea sympathizes with the motivations behind the 
resolution put to the vote today (resolution 67/19), and 
fully  understands  the  Palestinian  people’s  desire  for 
an independent State. On the other hand, the Republic 
of  Korea  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  results  that 
this  resolution  might  bring  about.  Accordingly,  my 
delegation  chose  to  abstain.  That  abstention  is  an 
expression  of  our  frustration  regarding  the  lack  of 
meaningful progress on the Middle East peace process. 
We continue to retain a sincere hope for such progress. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  its  support  for 
the two-State solution. What is most needed now is to 
provide  new  momentum  to  the  peace  process.  In  that 
regard, it is clear that the peaceful coexistence of Israel 
and  Palestine  can  be  achieved  only  through  dialogue 
and negotiation. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  deeply  saddened  by  the 
loss  of  life  cause  by  the  recent  armed  conf lict,  and 
welcomes  the  announcement  of  the  ceasefire  brought 
about  by  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
other  leaders  of  Member  States.  However,  the  current 
status of the ceasefire is still fragile, and there remain 
differences that need to be addressed through dialogue 
with a sense of urgency. The Republic of Korea hopes 
that Palestine and Israel will resume their negotiations 
as soon as possible to explore a permanent solution to 
this important issue. 
Mrs. Miculescu (Romania): Romania aligns itself 
with the statement to be delivered by the observer of the 
European Union and would like to add the following in 
its national capacity. 
Romania’s abstention today is based on a position of 
principle that my country has consistently held, namely, 
on the need to promote dialogue and direct negotiations 
between the parties, within the internationally accepted 
settlement frameworks and existing agreements. Based 
on  that  belief,  Romania  does  not  favour  unilateral 
initiatives, regardless of which side they come from, as 
they may have adverse effects on the resumption of the 
peace process negotiations.
Resolution  67/19,  just  adopted,  does  not  facilitate 
the  recognition  of  Palestine  as  a  State  or  its  accession 
to  international  organizations  and  treaties.  While  we 
recognize  those  goals  as  legitimate  objectives  of  the 
Palestinian people, Romania strongly believes that the 
only way to fulfil the vision of a two-State solution is the 
resumption  of  Israeli-Palestinian  direct  negotiations. 
We  urge  the  parties  to  engage  in  that  process  without 
preconditions. Romania will support any initiative that 
could  serve  that  purpose.  We  share  the  position  that 
the only viable solution is still the one promoted by the 
Quartet road map, which advocates for the existence of 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security,  within  secure  and  internationally 
recognized borders.
Mr. Moraes Cabral (Portugal): Portugal welcomes 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  67/19,  which  grants 
non-member observer State status in the United Nations 
to Palestine. Portugal has long defended the inalienable 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination 
through  the  establishment  of  a  sovereign  Palestinian 
State. We have done so bilaterally and most recently in 
discussions within the European Union, where we have 
from the outset defended the reasons for a positive vote 
on that Palestinian quest.
Portugal upholds the right of all States in the region 
to  live  in  peace  within  secure  and  internationally 
recognized  borders.  We  also  firmly  believe  in  a 
comprehensive  and  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conf lict  on  the  basis  of  the  two-State 
solution,  the  Quartet  road  map,  the  internationally 
endorsed  parameters  for  final  status 
the 
agreements  reached  between  the  parties,  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative  and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security Council.
issues, 
6 
12-62131
True  to  those  long-standing  positions,  Portugal 
has  voted  in  favour  of  the  enhancement  of  Palestine’s 
status  in  the  United  Nations.  We  have  also  done  so  in 
recognition  of  President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister 
Fayyad and their unwavering commitment to dialogue 
and a peaceful resolution to the conf lict and their efforts 
in preparing the Palestinian institutions for statehood. 
In  our  view,  the  rejection  of  violence  and  the  choice 
of  the  diplomatic  channel  are  fundamental  tenets  for 
achieving peace.
Portugal is hopeful that the resolution just adopted 
will provide much needed impetus to the peace process. 
A  just,  durable  and  comprehensive  peace  can  only  be 
reached through direct negotiations. We therefore urge 
the parties to resume negotiations with no further delay 
or preconditions. We welcome in that regard President 
Abbas’  statement  to  the  Assembly  reiterating  his 
commitment to the peace process (see A/67/PV.44).
The  international  community  must  now  exert 
all  efforts  to  ensure  the  swift  resumption  of  credible 
negotiations  with  a  view  to  a  final  settlement  that 
brings  about  the  realization  of  the  two-State  solution 
of  an  independent,  sovereign,  democratic,  viable  and 
contiguous  State  of  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  with 
Israel  in  peace  and  security  on  the  basis  of  the  pre-
1967 borders, while ensuring an enduring peace for all 
peoples in the region.
Portugal  naturally  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
that  will  be  delivered  later  on  by  Ambassador  Mayr-
Harting on behalf of the European Union.
Mr.  Reetoo  (Mauritius):  Mauritius  has  always 
supported the early realization of the Palestinians’ long 
overdue right to self-determination and the establishment 
of their sovereign, independent Palestinian State, living 
side by side and at peace with the State of Israel, within 
secure borders on the basis of the pre-1967 borders. In 
furtherance of that policy, Mauritius has unwaveringly 
supported all United Nations and other initiatives aimed 
at an early resolution of the conf lict-ridden situation in 
the Middle East. 
Mauritius  and  the  Palestinian  National  Authority 
maintain  strong  relations.  On  the  occasion  of  the 
commemoration of the International Day of Solidarity 
with 
the  Palestinian  People,  Mauritius  reaffirms 
our  strong  solidarity  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  of 
Palestine.  We  hope  and  pray  that  the  legitimate  and 
long-standing  aspirations  for  statehood  and  lasting 
peace  and  prosperity  will  materialize  soon.  We  also 
A/67/PV.45
reiterate that Mauritius remains fully committed to the 
just Palestinian cause.
Mauritius  firmly  believes  that  the  question  of 
Palestine can and must be resolved through peace and 
dialogue. Accordingly, we have committed our support 
to the Quartet and the Arab Peace Initiative. Mauritius 
also  believes  in  a  two-State  solution,  where  the  State 
of Israel and Palestine can live alongside each other in 
peace within secure borders. 
It is unfortunate that there has been little headway 
in  the  peace  process  in  the  recent  past.  In  fact,  the 
Israeli  settlement  policy  challenges  the  credibility  of 
that process and remains one of the biggest hurdles to 
the  resumption  of  peace  talks.  We  are  concerned  that 
the continued stalemate and the hardening of the Israeli 
position are undermining the peace process.
to 
In a message that the Prime Minister of Mauritius, 
Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  addressed 
the 
President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas,  on  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  the  Prime 
Minister  clearly  stated  that  Mauritius  fully  endorsed 
the application that it boldly submitted during the sixty-
sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  He  added  that 
Mauritius  would  likewise  support  the  draft  resolution 
relating to the enhancement of the status of Palestine.
In that spirit, Mauritius fully supports the admission 
of  Palestine  as  a  full  United  Nations  Member.  We 
applaud  the  statesmanship  that  President  Mahmoud 
Abbas demonstrated last year when he boldly submitted 
the application for full United Nations membership. We 
salute his wisdom and courage in that regard. 
On 
this  historic  day, 
therefore,  Mauritius 
unconditionally  endorses  and  supports  the  move  for 
Palestine  to  become  a  non-member  observer  State 
in  the  General  Assembly,  as  we  did  for  Palestine’s 
successful bid for membership of UNESCO. It will no 
doubt be a major step forward and paves the way for the 
ultimate fulfillment of the legitimate administration of 
our Palestinian brothers and sisters. At the same time, 
we  call  for  the  Palestinian  issue  to  retain  primacy  on 
the  international  agenda  until  an  enduring  and  lasting 
solution is reached. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote.
12-62131
7
A/67/PV.45
The General Assembly will now continue its debate 
on  agenda  item  37.  I  give  the  f loor  to  those  members 
wishing to make general statements. 
Mr.  Kahlil  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Egypt 
congratulates  the  Palestinian  people  on  their  State 
obtaining  non-member  observer  status  in  the  United 
Nations, following the adoption of resolution 67/19. The 
adoption  of  the  resolution  by  a  majority  of  more  than 
two  thirds  of  the  United  Nations  membership  ref lects 
the international community’s recognition of Palestine’s 
right  to  a  Government,  with  all  the  components  of  a 
State and a territory with specific features despite the 
occupation  and  ongoing  attempts  of  the  occupying 
Power to annex increasingly large swathes of territory 
through settlement activities or other illegal actions, in 
complete violation of international law and the principle 
of the peaceful settlement of conf licts.
rights, 
The  granting  to  Palestine  of  observer  status  as 
non-member  observer  State  in  the  United  Nations 
is  a  long-awaited  and  historic  step  that  will  enable 
the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  their  fundamental 
inalienable 
to 
establishing an independent State, with East Jerusalem 
as  its  capital.  It  provides  the  Palestinian  people  with 
the  appropriate  legal  tools  to  respond  to  the  crimes 
committed  by  the  occupying  Power  with  all  peaceful 
and legal means and to ensure that the perpetrators of 
those crimes are brought to international justice.
in  particular  with 
regard 
Today,  the  international  community  has  affirmed 
that  it  is  capable  of  taking  the  right  decision  when 
Member  States  have  the  political  will  to  do  so.  We 
therefore  hope  that,  in  the  near  future,  the  Security 
Council  will  assume  its  responsibility  and  take  the 
appropriate  decision  to  accept  Palestine  as  a  full 
Member of the United Nations so that it can control its 
own  natural  resources  and  end  Israel’s  suppression  of 
its people and land.
The resolution is an example of the ways in which 
the international community can ensure a peace process. 
More than 20 years after the 1991 Madrid Conference, 
and 30 years after the Camp David negotiations of 1979, 
which  set  out  the  essential  elements  for  a  two-State 
solution, including a Palestinian State, Israel is clearly 
not serious about achieving peace. The occupying Power 
relies on a negotiating strategy that leads nowhere. It is 
now  creating  a  pretext  not  to  relaunch  negotiations  by 
accusing the other party of violating international law 
and of failing to respect the previous negotiations. 
the 
Egypt 
therefore  reaffirms 
importance  of 
returning  to  the  negotiating  table  on  the  established 
basis, in accordance with the relevant General Assembly 
and  Security  Council  resolutions.  We  emphasize 
the  need  to  put  an  end  to  the  systematic  settlement 
activities  undertaken  and  supported  by  the  Israeli 
Government.  A  specific  timeframe  for  negotiations 
must be established that ensures a clear mechanism for 
future negotiations, with the provision of international 
guarantees  to  ensure  that  all  parties  fully  respect  all 
agreements.  The  negotiations  that  led  to  the  cessation 
of  the  recent  hostilities  in  Gaza  show  that  it  is  indeed 
possible  to  achieve  peace  if  all  parties  assume  their 
responsibilities.
Finally,  we  call  on  all  parties,  in  particular  Israel, 
the  occupying  Power,  and  the  major  donor  countries 
to  refrain  from  unilateral  measures  in  order  to  put 
pressure  on  Palestine  and  to  prevent  it  from  claiming 
its  rights.  Experience  has  shown  that  such  measures 
only strengthen the resolve of the Palestinian people to 
uphold  their  legitimate  rights,  which  are  supported  by 
the international community.
The  resolution  adopted  today  provides  a  historic 
opportunity  to  encourage  all  parties  to  return  to  the 
peace  process  in  good  faith  and  to  achieve  peace  and 
security  for  all  peoples  of  the  region.  Egypt  will  do 
its  utmost  to  facilitate  the  resumption  of  negotiations 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  rights  and  interests  of  all 
relevant parties in the region are met.
Mr. Khazaee (Islamic Republic of Iran): I have the 
honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) on agenda item 37, 
entitled “Question of Palestine”. 
Given the time constraint, I will present a condensed 
version  of  my  statement  on  behalf  of  NAM.  The  full 
text of the statement is being distributed. 
This 
important  debate  coincides  with 
the 
commemoration of the International Day of Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People.  It  is  an  important  day 
not  only  for  Palestine,  but  also  for  those  of  us  who 
strongly  believe  in  the  inalienable  right  of  peoples 
to  self-determination  and  to  free  themselves  from 
foreign  occupation  and  oppression.  On  this  day,  the 
international  community  reaffirms  its  continued  and 
unwavering  support  for  and  solidarity  with  the  long-
suffering people of Palestine in their national struggle 
to  achieve  the  independence  of  their  State,  as  well  as 
peace  and  justice.  NAM  pays  tribute  to  the  resilience 
8 
12-62131
of  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  pursuit  of  their 
legitimate national aspirations, which for too long they 
have unjustly been denied.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  its  grave 
concern regarding the critical situation in the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as 
a  result  of  Israeli’s  prolonged  military  occupation 
and 
illegal  policies  and  practices.  We  condemn 
Israel’s  ongoing  military  raids  and  attacks  against 
the  Palestinian  civilian  population,  the  blockade  of 
the  Gaza  Strip,  its  settlement  colonization  campaign, 
involving, inter alia, land confiscation, the construction 
and expansion of settlements and outposts, the transfer 
of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Israeli  settlers,  the 
construction  of  the  wall,  the  demolition  of  homes  and 
the imposition of severe restrictions on movement and 
hundreds  of  checkpoints.  We  condemn  the  detention 
and  imprisonment  of  thousands  of  Palestinians,  the 
forced  displacement  of  Palestinian  civilians,  reprisals 
against  the  civilian  population  and  all  other  measures 
of collective punishment against the Palestinian people. 
Those  acts  are  grave  breaches  of  international  law, 
including humanitarian and human rights law. 
Unfortunately,  today’s  meeting  comes  at  a  time 
when  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has  escalated  its 
military  campaign  against  the  Palestinian  people,  in 
particular in the Gaza Strip. The Israeli attacks on Gaza 
during an eight-day period this month reportedly caused 
the killing of approximately 170 Palestinians, including 
women  and  children,  and  the  wounding  of  about 
another 1,200. The situation in the rest of the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  is  also 
deteriorating as a result of Israel’s excessive use of force 
aimed  at  intimidating  and  terrorizing  the  Palestinian 
civilian population. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  strongly  condemns 
the  recent  military  campaign  against  the  Palestinian 
people  and  underlines  that,  in  addition  to  violating 
countless provisions of human rights law, such military 
aggression  and  collective  punishment  measures  by 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  are  tantamount  to  grave 
breaches  of  international  law,  including  international 
humanitarian  law,  in  particular  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  and  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions. 
Such  actions  pose  a  serious  threat  to  international 
peace and security and to regional stability.
A/67/PV.45
against  Gaza  in  order  to  end  Israeli  impunity  and  to 
realize justice for the victims. 
territory, 
including  East 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues  to  pursue 
its  illegal  settlement  activities,  along  with  many 
other  illegal  policies  and  practices,  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
Jerusalem. 
The  situation  continues  to  be  most  severe  in  the 
Jordan  Valley,  where  thousands  of  Palestinians  have 
been  displaced  and  thousands  more  are  at  risk  of 
displacement due to Israel’s illegal colonization in and 
around occupied East Jerusalem. At the same time, the 
occupied  Power  continues  to  pursue  measures  aimed 
at the quiet transfer or depopulation of the indigenous 
Palestinian  inhabitants  and  at  ensuring  that  there  is  a 
Jewish majority in the city. 
In  that  regard,  NAM  calls  for  a  complete  end  to 
all settlement activities, demolition of homes, residency 
revocations,  excavations,  including  near  and  around 
Al-Haram  Al-Sharif,  and  the  closure  of  Palestinian 
institutions  in  the  city.  We  also  condemn  the  terror, 
violence  and  provocation  by  extremist  Israeli  settlers 
against  Palestinian  civilians  and  property,  including 
homes,  agricultural  lands  and  Muslim  and  Christian 
holy  sites.  We  caution  that  such  actions  are  fuelling 
religious  sensitivities  that  risk  further  destabilization 
and that they must be brought to an immediate end by 
the occupied Power. NAM condemns Israel’s continuing 
unlawful  campaign  of  the  arrest,  detention  and  forced 
interrogation  of  thousands  of  Palestinian  civilians, 
including  children,  women  and  numerous  elected 
officials,  who  continue  to  be  held  under  harsh  and 
inhumane  conditions  and  to  be  subjected  to  physical 
and mental ill-treatment. 
In that regard, the Movement condemns, inter alia, 
Israel’s  use  of  torture  and  all  other  forms  of  physical 
and  psychological  mistreatment  and  deprivation  of 
Palestinian  prisoners,  including  the  denial  of  family 
visits,  access  to  education  and  adequate  medical  care 
and the inhumane use of solitary confinement. As stated 
in  the  declaration  on  Palestinian  political  prisoners 
adopted  by  the  sixteenth  Summit  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  held  in  Tehran  in  August,  the  Movement 
is  convinced  that  Palestinian  prisoners  should  be 
immediately released and their plight addressed by the 
international  community,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council and the Human Rights Council. 
In that regard, the Non-Aligned Movement calls for 
accountability for the perpetration of war crimes by the 
occupying Power in its most recent military aggression 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses  its  serious 
concern  regarding  the  dangerous  impasse  in  the 
Middle  East  peace  process  due  to  ongoing  Israeli 
12-62131
9
A/67/PV.45
intransigence  and 
illegal  policies.  That  conduct 
continues  to  undermine  the  resumption  of  credible 
negotiations  and  to  obstruct  the  achievement  of  a 
just,  lasting,  comprehensive  and  peaceful  solution  to 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict,  the  core  of  the  Arab-
Israeli conf lict. Such Israeli behaviour and its refusal to 
commit to the internationally endorsed parameters for 
the two-State solution cast a dark shadow of doubt over 
Israeli’s  professed  intentions.  Instead,  it  underscores 
the  belief  that  Israel’s  insistence  on  the  negotiations 
path is merely for the sake of managing the crisis and 
entrenching its illegitimate military occupation, not to 
actually reach any comprehensive peace settlement.
In 
that 
regard, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
Committee  on  Palestine  has  welcomed  all  efforts  and 
initiatives  aimed  at  realizing  the  two-State  solution 
and  justice  for  the  Palestinian  people.  It  stresses  the 
importance  of  the  Assembly’s  granting  non-member 
observer  State  status  to  Palestine,  and  expresses  the 
hope that this peaceful multilateral initiative, consistent 
with United Nations resolutions regarding the question 
of  Palestine  —  including  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  self-determination  and  the  international 
consensus  on  a  two-State  solution  —  will  positively 
contribute to salvaging the prospects for peace.
reaffirms 
In  conclusion, 
the  Movement 
its 
unwavering  commitment  to  a  just  and  comprehensive 
solution to the Arab-Israeli conf lict, with the question 
of Palestine at its core, and to the immediate restoration 
of  the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
exercise  self-determination  and  sovereignty  in  the 
independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital.
I  now  wish  to  speak  in  my  national  capacity  as 
Ambassador  and  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran.
I would like to congratulate the Palestinian people 
and  their  representatives  on  the  historic  victory  they 
achieved today in the Assembly, which truly represents 
the  entire  world.  I  would  also  like  to  read  out  a 
message of solidarity with the Palestinian people from 
Mr.  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran,  on  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People.
“For  more  than  60  years,  the  question  of 
Palestine  has  been  of  central  concern  to  the 
free  nations  of  the  world.  The  cruel  occupation 
of  Palestine  and  displacement  of  its  nation  are 
considered  to  be  not  only  a  deprivation  of  the 
Palestinian  people  of 
their  fundamental  and 
legitimate  rights,  but  also  a  violation  of  universal 
human  values  and  a  f louting  of  the  wisdom,  logic 
and common sense of all humanity.
“The crisis in the region, which has lasted for 
several  decades,  is  the  unpleasant  consequence 
of  the  occupation  of  Palestine.  The  expansionist, 
militaristic and inhumane policies of the occupying 
and  fabricated  Zionist  regime  have  resulted  in 
continued instability and violence in the region, the 
imposition of five wars on nations of the region, the 
killing  and  imprisonment  of  tens  of  thousands  of 
people, and the displacement of millions of others. 
The  recent  aggression  in  Gaza  was  yet  another 
clear indication of the true uncivilized nature of the 
Zionists and their mission.
“The failure of the international community in 
addressing the question of Palestine is the product 
of  the  discriminatory  and  unilateral  policies  of 
some members of the Security Council, which have 
resulted in the continuation of the crisis and posed 
tremendous  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security.
“The  great  Iranian  nation,  while  declaring  its 
full  solidarity  with  the  suffering  and  oppressed 
people  of  Palestine,  reiterates  its  continued  moral 
support to them. The Islamic Republic of Iran is of 
the  view  that  unless  heed  is  paid  to  the  legitimate 
demands  of  the  Palestinian  people,  including  to 
exercise  their  right  to  self-determination  and  the 
elimination of all acts of aggression and occupation 
against  them,  as  well  as  the  restoration  of  justice 
and dignity to them, it will be impossible to find a 
just solution to the crisis.
“It  is  obvious  that  the  best  solution  to  the 
question of Palestine would be the holding of free 
and  fair  elections  with  the  participation  of  all 
Palestinians,  including  Muslims,  Christians  and 
Jews.  In  that  regard,  the  international  community 
and  the  United  Nations  in  particular  have  a  vital, 
effective  and  legitimate  role  to  play  in  resolving 
the question of Palestine and ending the conquest. 
Undoubtedly,  the  era  of  Zionism  and  occupation 
is  over.  The  future  belongs  to  the  great  nation 
of  Palestine,  to  other  free  nations  and  to  justice, 
empathy and freedom.”
10 
12-62131
A/67/PV.45
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Mayr-Harting  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union. 
The  present  statement  is  based  on  the  declaration 
made  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  earlier  today 
by  the  High  Representative  of  the  Union  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Security  Policy,  Catherine  Ashton.  The 
acceding  country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Iceland and Serbia; the country of the Stabilization and 
Association Process and potential candidate Albania; as 
well as the Republic of Moldova, Armenia and Georgia, 
align themselves with this statement. 
Today’s  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
accord non-member observer State status in the United 
Nations  to  Palestine  comes  at  a  time  when  the  latest 
escalation  in  the  ongoing  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict 
has  caused  the  death  of  a  large  number  of  innocent 
civilians. It is a bitter reminder of the urgent necessity 
to move forward towards the end of the conf lict. Only 
a  political  solution  to  the  conf lict  can  bring  lasting 
security,  peace  and  prosperity  to  Palestinians  and 
Israelis. A comprehensive negotiated peace, which is a 
fundamental interest of the European Union, as well as 
the parties in the region, must and can be achieved on 
the basis of a two-State solution, with the State of Israel 
and  a  sovereign,  democratic,  contiguous  and  viable 
State  of  Palestine,  both  living  within  agreed  borders 
and enjoying peace and security.
The  European  Union  has  repeatedly  expressed 
its  support  and  desire  for  Palestine  to  become  a  full 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  as  part  of  a  solution  to 
the conf lict. The European Union has also consistently 
worked 
the  Palestinian  Authority’s 
State-building efforts under Prime Minister Fayyad. It 
will continue to do so.
to  advance 
Recalling the Berlin Declaration of March 1999, the 
European Union reiterates its readiness to recognize a 
Palestinian State when appropriate.
necessary  to  ensure  meaningful  negotiations,  and  to 
refrain  from  actions  that  undermine  the  credibility 
of  the  process.  The  European  Union  urges  both  sides 
to  seek  constructive  ways  to  overcome  the  current 
obstacles to a resumption of direct negotiations without 
delay  or  preconditions.  It  welcomes  in  that  regard 
the  positive  statements  previously  made  by  President 
Abbas and Prime Minister Netanyahu, and urges them 
to maintain those commitments.
The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  position  that 
clear parameters defining the basis for negotiations are 
key  elements  for  a  successful  outcome,  together  with 
the  avoidance  of  unilateral  measures  and  acts  on  the 
ground that undermine confidence and the viability of 
the two-State solution. The European Union reaffirms 
that  it  will  not  recognize  any  changes  to  the  pre-1967 
borders, including with regard to Jerusalem, other than 
those agreed by the parties, and recalls its position on 
negotiations,  including  the  conclusions  of  the  Foreign 
Affairs  Council  in  December  2009  and  May  2012, 
as  well  as  the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union in the United Nations Security Council 
on  21  April  2011  (see  S/PV.6520).  The  European 
Union  will  work  actively  within  the  Quartet  and  with 
international  partners  in  support  of  efforts  to  bring 
about substantive negotiations in the coming months.
Let me also brief ly refer to the statement just made 
by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  then  in 
his  national  capacity.  I  should  just  like  to  say  that  it 
becomes  problematic  when  a  statement  on  behalf 
of  a  political  group  is  then  combined  with  a  national 
statement of a divisive nature.
Miss  Hassan  (Djibouti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 
great honour for me to address the Assembly on behalf 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC)  and 
to  convey  the  message  of  our  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, His Excellency Mr. Mohammed Ali Youssouf, 
as the President of the OIC.
(spoke in English)
Looking beyond today’s vote, it is important for all 
parties and actors involved to work towards the settlement 
of  the  conf lict  with  renewed  purpose  and  a  sense  of 
urgency.  The  European  Union  recalls  its  well  known 
positions  on  intra-Palestinian  reconciliation  behind 
President Abbas, settlements and Israel’s security. The 
European  Union  calls  on  all  parties  to  pursue  actions 
conducive  to  creating  an  environment  of  confidence 
We  are  gathered  here  today  in  the  General 
Assembly to grant Palestine the status of non-member 
observer  State,  which  is  yet  another  affirmation  of 
the  international  community’s  continued  support  to 
the  Palestinian  cause  and  of  its  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people.  On  behalf  of  the  OIC  group,  I  am 
pleased to express our gratitude to the United Nations 
and  to  all  its  organs  for  their  work  on  that  issue.  In 
12-62131
11
A/67/PV.45
particular, I would like to thank Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  and  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  Ambassador  Abdou  Salam  Diallo,  for  their 
relentless  efforts  and  initiatives  in  support  of  the 
Palestinian cause.
The  OIC  group  believes  that  the  international 
community  has  a  special  responsibility  to  help  the 
Palestinian  people  realize  their  national  rights  to  self-
determination  and  sovereignty  and  their  status  as  an 
independent  State  in  the  territory  occupied  by  Israel 
since  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  as  well 
as to find a just solution for the plight of the Palestinian 
refugees in line with resolution 194 (III) of 1948. In that 
regard, the international community has had a historic 
opportunity this afternoon, as well as the responsibility, 
to  reaffirm  its  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people 
and support their just cause for independence. 
The  Palestinians  have  been  intensely  negotiating 
with  Israel  in  good  faith  for  the  past  two  decades  to 
regain their territories and their inalienable rights, and 
to  live  in  peace  and  security.  Unfortunately,  none  of 
those  legitimate  goals  has  been  achieved  so  far,  and 
none appears within the grasp of the Palestinians in the 
short term, given Israel’s permanent strategy of shifting 
the goal posts.
including  East 
It is unfortunate that on this very day of solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  recognition  of 
Palestine as a non-member observer State, the prospects 
for  peace  and  justice  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, 
Jerusalem,  are  being 
challenged by the colonial and discriminatory policies 
and  illegal  practices  of  Israel,  the  occupying  Power. 
Israel continues to build illegal settlements in the West 
Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem.  It  is  constructing 
an  apartheid  wall,  restricting  Palestinians’  access 
to  places  of  worship,  encouraging  escalating  acts  of 
violence by Israeli settlers against Palestinian civilians, 
denying  the  free  movement  of  people  and  goods,  and 
confiscating  ever  more  Palestinian  homes  and  land. 
Israel’s  violations  of  international  law  have  become  a 
daily practice, which is systematically undermining the 
prospects for a two-State solution.
The  OIC  group  expresses  grave  concern  at  the 
situation  in  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  where  the 
Israeli  settlement  campaign  is  most  intense,  and  calls 
for  a  complete  end  to  all  settlement  activities,  all 
excavations,  including  near  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif,  all 
home demolitions and all residency revocations, as well 
as the closure of Palestinian institutions in the city. The 
Group  condemns  the  terror,  violence  and  provocation 
by extremist Israeli settlers against Palestinian civilians 
and  property,  including  homes,  agricultural  land  and 
Muslim  and  Christian  holy  sites,  and  it  cautions  that 
such actions are fuelling religious sensitivities that risk 
further  destabilization.  The  occupying  Power  must 
immediately end such activities.
Moreover,  Israel’s  escalating  military  aggression 
and  the  illegal  blockade  it  imposes  on  the  Gaza  Strip 
are not only a collective punishment against 1.5 million 
Palestinians  in  the  Strip.  They  also  represent  the 
continuation  of  a  war  crime  against  humanity,  which 
must stop. In that vein, the OIC group once again calls 
on  the  international  community,  and  on  the  Security 
Council  in  particular,  to  assume  its  responsibility  to 
take  the  necessary  measures  for  an  immediate  and 
permanent  halt  to  the  Israeli  aggression  against  the 
Palestinian people. It is past time to end the Palestinian 
people’s  suffering  and  to  provide  them  with  the 
protection  and  the  means  needed  to  rehabilitate  and 
reconstruct the Gaza Strip.
to 
full  membership 
Palestine’s  accession 
in 
UNESCO last year was a sign of international recognition 
of the Palestinians’ rights. That achievement illustrates 
the  concrete  and  positive  support  for  the  legitimate 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Similarly,  the 
positive  assessment  by  the  United  Nations,  the  World 
Bank and the International Monetary Fund with respect 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Palestinian  National 
Authority’s 2009 plan for constructing the institutions 
of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  within  a  two-year 
period  is  yet  another  strong  indication  of  Palestine’s 
readiness for independent statehood.
In  conclusion,  we  believe  that  permanent  peace 
between  Israel  and  Palestine  is  the  sine  qua  non  for 
both  peoples  to  focus  their  energies  and  resources 
on  developing  their  societies  in  peace,  harmony  and 
coexistence.  The  OIC  Group  expresses  its  strong 
solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  and  commends 
all  Member  States  for  their  overwhelming  support  in 
favour  of  resolution  67/19,  which  enabled  Palestine  to 
become  a  non-member  observer  State.  By  granting 
Palestine  improved  diplomatic  status  —  even  though 
only a symbolic milestone in Palestinian ambitions for 
statehood — they have brought Israelis and Palestinians 
a step closer to achieving a sustainable solution on the 
basis  of  two  States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.
12 
12-62131
A/67/PV.45
Mr. Li Baodong (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
thanks  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Sudan  for 
his  introduction,  earlier  today,  of  resolution  67/19,  on 
Palestine’s status in the United Nations, of which China 
was  a  sponsor.  China  also  welcomes  the  presence  of 
President Abbas and his important statement at today’s 
meeting. 
The  resolution  just  adopted  grants  non-member 
observer  State  status  to  Palestine  in  the  United 
Nations.  That  fully  demonstrates  the  broad  support  of 
the  international  community  for  the  just  cause  of  the 
Palestinian people in restoring their legitimate national 
rights.  It  has  also  furthered  international  recognition 
of the State of Palestine and is another positive step by 
Palestine on its road towards independent statehood, as 
the  result  of  long-term  efforts  on  the  part  of  Palestine 
and  other  Arab  countries  with  the  support  of  the 
international community. 
China warmly congratulates the people of Palestine. 
China  has  always  resolutely  supported  the  just  cause 
of  the  Palestinian  people  in  restoring  their  legitimate 
national  rights.  Gaining  independent  statehood  is  the 
legitimate right of the Palestinian people and the basis 
and  prerequisite  for  the  realization  of  the  two-State 
solution,  with  the  two  countries  living  peacefully 
side  by  side.  China  supports  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  State  of  Palestine,  with  full  sovereignty 
and  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  on  the  basis  of  the 
1967 borders. 
China  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  support 
the  national  resistance  movement  of  Palestine  and 
to  recognize  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
and  the  State  of  Palestine.  As  early  as  1988,  China 
announced  its  recognition  of  the  State  of  Palestine 
and  established  diplomatic  relations  with  it.  China 
supports Palestinian membership in the United Nations 
and  other  international  organizations  and  expresses 
its  understanding  of  and  respect  and  support  for  the 
request of Palestine to become an observer State in the 
United Nations. 
The  Palestinian  issue  has  always  been  at  the 
core  of  the  Middle  East  question.  Only  when  the 
Palestinian  issue  is  appropriately  resolved  can  lasting 
peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East  be  realized. 
China  expresses  its  deep  concern  over  the  protracted 
stalemate  in  the  peace  talks  between  the  two  parties. 
China  hopes  that  all  the  relevant  parties  will  resolve 
their  disputes  through  political  negotiations  on  the 
basis  of  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  the 
principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
and the road map for peace in the Middle East, with a 
view to establishing an independent State of Palestine, 
with Palestine and Israel living peacefully side by side. 
Given  the  current  situation,  the  resumption  of  the 
peace talks between Palestine and Israel is all the more 
important  and  urgent.  The  international  community 
should adopt a more proactive and constructive attitude 
in pressing for peace talks and pushing both parties, in 
particular Israel as the stronger party, to adopt effective 
measures to remove the obstacles to the peace talks and 
re-establish  mutual  trust,  so  that  negotiations  can  be 
resumed at an early date and substantive progress made. 
China will continue to play an active and constructive 
role in pushing for a comprehensive and just settlement 
of the Palestinian issue.
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): The action 
taken by the General Assembly today is indeed a birth 
certificate for the State of Palestine, as President Abbas 
said in his statement earlier today (see A/67/PV.44). The 
adoption by a large majority of resolution 67/19, which 
grants  Palestine  the  status  of  non-member  observer 
State  at  the  United  Nations,  is  a  historic  achievement 
and a landmark in the struggle of the Palestinian people 
to achieve all their political rights, including the right to 
self-determination, and a recognition of an independent 
Palestinian State within the borders of 1967.
The  adoption  of  the  resolution  sends  a  clear 
message  to  the  Palestinian  people  of  the  firm  support 
of  the  international  community  for  its  rights.  The 
resolution,  which  was  adopted  by  the  vast  majority  of 
the members of the Assembly — with 138 countries in 
favour — calls for the implementation of the principles 
of  the  Madrid  Conference,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
and the road map called for by the Quartet, in order to 
reach  a  final  solution  to  the  crisis  in  the  Middle  East 
and address the six main points, which are: the return 
of the refugees, Jerusalem, the settlements, the borders, 
security and water.
The  State  of  Kuwait  congratulates  the  brotherly 
Palestinian  people  on  the  support  of  the  General 
Assembly, which coincides with our celebration of the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People. We affirm our solidarity with and full support for 
the lawful aspirations and ambitions of the Palestinian 
people.  We  also  reaffirm  the  strong  commitment  of 
the  leadership,  Government  and  people  of  Kuwait  to 
continue  their  moral,  political  and  material  support 
until  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  occupied  territories 
12-62131
13
A/67/PV.45
ends and the State of Palestine is established, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973), 
1397 (2002), 1515 (2003) and 1860 (2009).
In  that  context,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the 
resolution  of  the  Arab  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  12  November,  which  urges  States  that  have  not  yet 
recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  to  do  so  in  order  to 
consolidate the international consensus in favour of the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State. We 
reiterate the call of the international community to the 
Security Council to respond to the Palestinian request 
to be granted full membership.
The  military  aggression  by  Israel  against  Gaza 
that  began  on  14  November  and  continued  for  eight 
consecutive  days  resulted  in  a  huge  loss  of  life  and 
property:  168  people  were  killed  and  more  than  1,200 
suffered  injuries,  including  women,  children  and 
elderly  people.  That  constitutes  clear  evidence  of  the 
brutality of Israel in its aggression and its lack of good 
faith in peaceful negotiations.
The inability of the United Nations to oblige Israel 
to  fulfil  its  international  obligations  and  the  lack  of  a 
sincere  international  will  to  confront  the  occupying 
Israeli  authorities  have  encouraged  Israel  to  persist  in 
its  intransigence,  ignore  international  legitimacy  and 
further  pursue  hostile  expansionist  policies.  There  is 
no  better  proof  of  that  than  the  creation  of  1,200  new 
illegal settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, 
and the establishment of a military camp in the Mount 
of  Olives  area.  That  policy  f louts  international  norms 
and laws, in complete disregard for the basic tenets of 
international law, in particular the 1949 Fourth Geneva 
Convention. 
Those  practices  and  other  violations,  such  as  the 
continued blockade of the Gaza Strip, the confiscation 
of  land,  the  demolition  of  homes,  the  continued 
arrests of the Palestinian people — arrests that do not 
differentiate between child, young man or woman — and 
the restrictions on the movement of goods and persons, 
are  the  main  reasons  for  the  continued  tension  and 
instability in the region and undermine the chances of 
reaching a final settlement to this conf lict.
The  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its  call  on  the 
international  community  to  bring  pressure  to  bear 
on  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  put  an  end  to  its 
hostile practices and an immediate end to its unlawful 
blockade  of  Gaza  and  open  all  crossings,  pursuant  to 
its  international  obligations,  stop  all  illegal  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  territories,  and  implement 
The State of Kuwait renews its demand that Israel 
implement  Security  Council  resolution  497  (1981), 
which calls for its withdrawal from the occupied Syrian 
Golan and its return to the borders of 4 June 1967. We 
affirm  yet  again  that  Israel’s  continued  occupation  of 
Syrian  land  constitutes  a  major  obstacle  to  achieving 
peace and security in the Middle East.
The  State  of  Kuwait  renews  its  commitment  to 
steadfastly  support  its  brotherly  country  Lebanon 
in  safeguarding  its  security  and  territorial  integrity. 
Kuwait demands that Israel stop its continued violations 
of  Lebanese  airspace  and  territory  and  implement 
resolution 1701 (2006) by completely withdrawing from 
all remaining occupied Lebanese territory.
Mrs.  Ogwu  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. I will now make 
a statement in my national capacity. 
The  Assembly  will  recall  what  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  stated  in  his  opening  remarks  at  the 
beginning of its sixty-seventh session:
“The  two-State  solution  is  the  only  sustainable 
option,  yet  the  door  may  be  closing  for  good. 
The  continued  growth  of  Israeli  settlements 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  seriously 
undermines efforts towards peace. We must break 
that dangerous impasse.” (A/67/PV.6, p. 3)
That task must ultimately devolve upon the United 
Nations.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  itself  is 
founded on the principles of justice, peace, coexistence, 
security,  fundamental  human  rights,  human  dignity 
and freedom. Each one of those has been established by 
practice and sustained by international law and norms. 
The principle of self-determination encompasses all of 
those principles and is the sole embodiment of the just 
and conscious expression of a people to their freedom, 
their  rights  and  their  dignity.  Therefore,  to  deny  that 
singular right is to deny all other rights.
Since  1947 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the 
Security  Council  have  been  seized  of  the  situation  in 
the  Middle  East.  Specifically,  in  November  1967  the 
Security  Council  set  forth  the  principles  for  a  just 
and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East  in  resolution 
242  (1967).  Subsequent  resolutions  have  reiterated  the 
14 
12-62131
determination  of  both  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  to  resolve  the  question  of  Palestine 
on  the  basis  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international law.
Consistent with those resolutions, Nigeria staunchly 
believes in the inalienable right of the Palestinian people 
to  self-determination  and 
independent  statehood. 
Indeed,  Nigeria  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  in 
1984  and  has  maintained  uninterrupted  diplomatic 
relations with the Government and people of Palestine. 
It is in that context that Nigeria voted in favour of the 
admission  of  Palestine  to  UNESCO  as  a  full  member 
State. That principle also informs our stance today. 
Nigeria  believes  that  the  two-State  solution  is  the 
best  option  to  resolve  the  protracted  conf lict  in  the 
Middle East. We reaffirm the right of the State of Israel 
to  exist  in  peace  and  security,  without  the  threat  of 
annihilation, within internationally agreed borders. In 
the same vein, we underscore the right of the people of 
Palestine to live in freedom and to exercise their right 
to self-determination with all the benefits of statehood. 
As  the  world  observes  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, it is fitting that 
today we have accorded Palestine non-member observer 
State status in the United Nations. It is not only timely; 
it  is  right  and  it  is  just.  Nigeria  will  continue  to  work 
assiduously  with  the  parties  concerned  and  all  people 
of goodwill to ensure an enduring peace in the region. 
Mr.  Laher  (South  Africa):  It  is  with  great  joy 
that  we  stand  here  today  to  congratulate  the  people 
of  Palestine  for  attaining  an  enhanced  observer  State 
status in the United Nations. Although that is not what 
we  would  have  ideally  wanted,  because  we  support 
full membership in the United Nations for the State of 
Palestine, it is satisfying that the Organization has now 
cemented in the books of history the fact that Palestine 
is indeed a State. It is a historic achievement on the road 
to the creation of a viable Palestinian State that should, 
ideally, be celebrated by all. 
This  year  has  historical  significance  because  it 
marks 45 years since the occupation of Palestinian land 
by  Israel.  If  the  South  African  experience  is  anything 
to go by, we are certain that the Palestinians, with the 
assistance of the international community, will prevail 
in their quest for a viable State of their own. The United 
Nations  and  the  rest  of  the  international  community 
should play their part in ensuring that the aspirations of 
the Palestinian people are fulfilled. 
A/67/PV.45
We call on the international community to avoid any 
retributive  actions  that  could  stif le  the  very  existence 
of the State of Palestine. We say that in view of threats 
from  some  that  there  would  be  negative  implications 
for Palestine and the United Nations f lowing from the 
success of the resolution adopted today, as we witnessed 
last November when Palestine joined the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
The  Middle  East  peace  process,  including  the 
question of Palestine, has been on the agenda of the United 
Nations for more than 60 years. It is an indictment on 
the conscience of the United Nations that after all these 
years there still has not been any significant movement 
towards the attainment of a permanent and sustainable 
solution to the long, drawn-out crisis. Despite attempts 
to inject life into the negotiation process, the prospects 
for  direct  negotiations  get  dimmer  by  the  day,  as  the 
Israeli Government continues its counterproductive acts 
of  aggression,  particularly  ongoing  illegal  settlement 
construction,  home  demolitions,  illegal  excavations 
of  religious  sites  and  restrictions  on  the  access  and 
movement of Palestinian people. 
The  illegal  Israeli  settlements  have  led  to  a 
fragmentation  of  the  West  Bank  and  the  isolation  of 
Jerusalem  from  the  rest  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  and  continue  to  threaten  the  feasibility  of 
a  contiguous  Palestinian  State.  The  continued  failure 
to  take  any  meaningful  action  to  halt  the  settlements 
only  serves  to  undermine  our  commitment  to  a  two-
State solution. 
The  recent  events  in  Gaza  were  disturbing.  They 
are  a  reminder  of  how  fragile  the  security  situation  is 
without the fulfilment of a sustainable solution. South 
Africa is pleased that the ceasefire between Israel and 
Palestinian  groups  in  Gaza  is  holding  after  so  many 
people, including women and children, lost their lives. 
The violence also resulted in the obliteration of critical 
infrastructure,  such  as  schools  and  medical  facilities, 
which will take a long time to rebuild due to the blockade 
of  the  enclave.  South  Africa  welcomes  the  mediation 
efforts  of  the  Government  of  Egypt,  other  countries, 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  Secretary-General, 
which led to the implementation of the ceasefire and the 
restoration of calm.
At  this  point  it  is  appropriate  to  ask:  Where  was 
the  Quartet  during  the  crisis  in  Gaza?  The  Quartet’s 
silence  during  that  critical  time  justifies  the  criticism 
that its utility should be urgently addressed, with a view 
to reconfiguring, strengthening or perhaps disbanding 
12-62131
15
A/67/PV.45
it.  As  part  of  the  Quartet,  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  have  an  obligation  to  ask  such  questions,  lest 
we become a docile partner in this equation.
Likewise, we must also register our disappointment 
that the Security Council did not act at an appropriate 
time. That prolonged the conf lict, which led to the loss 
of  more  lives.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Security 
Council to respond to threats to international peace and 
security wherever they may arise, and without prejudice. 
United  Nations  meetings  that  only  pay  lip  service  to 
the  Middle  East  peace  process  do  not  translate  into 
meaningful action, nor do they advance peace. 
its  efforts 
solution,  namely, 
sustainable  political 
South Africa calls on the international community 
to  achieve  a  permanent 
to  redouble 
and 
the 
implementation  of  a  viable  two-State  solution  that 
provides  for  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State 
existing side by side in peace and security with Israel, 
within  internationally  recognized  borders  based  on 
those  existing  on  4  June  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital.  We  also  call  on  those  countries  that  have 
leverage with the parties to encourage them to choose 
the path of negotiations instead of the destructive path 
of conf lict.
While we condemn the actions of some Palestinian 
groups that fire rockets into Israel that directly threaten 
its civilian population, including women and children, 
we  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  continued  occupation  of 
Palestine  remains  the  root  cause  of  the  conf lict.  The 
international  community’s  demand  that  Israel  end  the 
illegal  blockade  of  Gaza,  which  has  exacerbated  the 
suffering of ordinary Palestinian people, must be met. 
The  blockade  of  Gaza  continues  to  have  a  negative 
impact on the lives of its inhabitants and has contributed 
directly to the increase in unemployment and poverty. 
It  has  also  resulted  in  delays  in  the  provision  of 
humanitarian  assistance,  since  it  has  thwarted  the 
entry  into  Gaza  of  humanitarian  agencies  such  as  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  and  the  United 
Nations Development Programme. We therefore call on 
Israel to end the illegal blockade of Gaza in observance 
of international humanitarian law, including the Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  and  Security  Council  resolutions, 
as  well  as  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  In  keeping  with 
its  practice  of  contributing  to  the  alleviation  of  the 
humanitarian  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people,  South 
Africa  has  donated  the  sum  of  2  million  rand  to 
UNRWA.
Conf lict  between  Israel  and  Palestine  affects 
regional  stability  and  has  an  impact  on  the  fragile 
situation  in  the  region.  It  thus  becomes  much  more 
important that we find a resolution to the conf lict. 
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
resolution  181  (II),  adopted  this  very  day  65  years 
ago,  was  a  promissory  note  to  the  people  of  Israel 
and  Palestine  guaranteeing  the  creation  of  two  States. 
Resolution 67/19, which we adopted today, is a further 
fulfilment  of  that  promise.  It  proves  that  we  cannot 
avoid  the  reality  of  an  independent  State  of  Palestine. 
It remains our responsibility to ensure that it is viable, 
contiguous and sustainable, so that it is in a position to 
live  peacefully  with  its  neighbour,  the  State  of  Israel. 
It is our duty to ensure that beyond today, the State of 
Palestine  provides  adequately  for  its  population  and 
enjoys the privileges that are inherent in statehood.
Mr.  Al-Jarman  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in Arabic): At the outset, on behalf of the Government 
and  people  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  Palestine  today  on  being  accorded 
non-member  observer  State  status  in  the  United 
Nations.  Our  sponsorship  and  support  of  the  historic 
resolution  67/19,  adopted 
represents  our 
firm  conviction  that  international  recognition  of  a 
Palestinian  State  is  one  essential  element  of  the  main 
responsibility  of  the  United  Nations  regarding  the 
Palestinian  question,  which  has  remained  unresolved 
for 65 years.
today, 
Today’s  resolution  is  fully  consistent  with  other 
United  Nations  resolutions  that  have  outlined  the 
principles  of  a  just  solution  to  this  question,  in 
particular  resolution  181  (II),  which  divided  historic 
Palestine into two States, one Jewish and one Arab, and 
unleashed a series of events that radically changed the 
geographic and political situation of the entire Middle 
East.  Those  events  included  the  establishment  of  an 
Israeli  State  more  than  six  decades  ago  and  Israel’s 
later  obstruction  of  all  efforts  aimed  at  establishing 
an independent Palestinian State through its continued 
occupation of and dangerous policies in the Palestinian 
and  other  Arab  territories  occupied  since  1967.  They 
resulted in the prolongation of the suffering and tragedy 
of  the  Palestinian  people,  on  the  one  hand,  and  had  a 
negative  impact  on  all  efforts  to  consolidate  regional 
and international peace and security, on the other.
We  consider  this  historic  recognition  by  the 
United  Nations  of  the  State  of  Palestine  an  important 
step  towards  settling  the  Palestinian  question  and 
16 
12-62131
consolidating Palestinians’ right to self-determination. 
It  also  represents  an  historic  opportunity  to  overcome 
the  political  crisis  and  the  no-peace  situation  that 
has  resulted  from  Israel’s  continued  occupation  of 
Palestinian lands. We hope that it is a first step towards 
an independent State of Palestine’s full membership in 
the  United  Nations,  on  an  equal  footing  with  all  other 
States, since it is now recognized by an overwhelming 
majority of States Members of the Organization.
In the light of our deep concern about the stalemate 
in 
the  peace  negotiations,  whose  credibility  has 
been  put  to  the  test  by  Israel’s  violations  of  its  own 
commitments and obligations regarding the most basic 
legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people and 
the  terms  of  reference  of  the  peace  process,  we  urge 
the international community, especially the Quartet, to 
reactivate  its  initiative  and  efforts  in  that  regard.  We 
urge  it  to  use  its  inf luence  with  Israel  to  immediately 
end  its  unilateral  actions,  which  have  caused  the 
negotiations to stall.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly  condemns 
all  hostile  policies  and  serious  acts  of  aggression 
committed  by  Israel  to  date,  including  its  recent 
aggression  against  Gaza  and  deliberate  targeting  of 
unarmed civilians, including women and children. We 
urge  the  Quartet  to  reactivate  its  initiative  and  renew 
its  efforts  to  pressure  Israel  to  bring  an  immediate 
halt  to  all  the  unilateral  actions  that  have  obstructed 
peace negotiations. That should include the immediate 
cessation of all expansionist settlement projects and all 
efforts to change the demographic facts on the ground 
ahead of the final status negotiations. 
Israel should also end all its other provocative illegal 
actions  in  East  Jerusalem,  including  the  demolition  of 
homes,  the  confiscation  of  lands  and  water  resources, 
the  expulsion  of  Arab  Palestinian  inhabitants  and 
other such demographic changes preceding final status 
negotiations. Such measures should help both parties to 
reach  an  agreement  embodying  a  just,  comprehensive 
and  lasting  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question,  based 
on  a  two-State  solution  and  within  a  specific  time 
frame.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  will  continue  with  its 
political support and development aid for the Palestinian 
Authority,  led  by  President  Mahmoud  Abbas,  and  for 
all other efforts aimed at achieving Palestinian national 
reconciliation, in order to enhance security and stability 
in  the  Middle  East,  a  goal  that  can  be  achieved  only 
A/67/PV.45
through a just, comprehensive and lasting settlement of 
the Palestinian question and the Arab-Israeli conf lict. 
Such a settlement requires that Israel immediately 
end all its policies of aggression against the Palestinian 
people. It should begin with Israel’s full withdrawal from 
all  the  Palestinian  and  Arab  territories  occupied  since 
1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  the  Syrian  Golan  and 
the remaining occupied Lebanese territories. It should 
include the establishment of an independent Palestinian 
State  on  the  basis  of  the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  the  Madrid  peace  process  and  relevant 
international 
law,  particularly  General  Assembly 
resolution  181  (II),  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967) and 338 (1973), the two-State solution set out in 
the road map, and the Arab Peace Initiative.
Mrs. Ribeiro Viotti (Brazil): Brazil congratulates 
Palestine on this special occasion and reaffirms its full 
support for and commitment to the Palestinian people’s 
right  to  self-determination  and  to  a  just  and  lasting 
peace in the Middle East. Brazil has firmly supported 
the  legitimate  aspiration  of  the  Palestinian  people  for 
a  sovereign, 
independent,  democratic,  contiguous 
and  viable  Palestinian  State,  on  the  basis  of  the  1967 
borders, living side by side in peace and security with 
the State of Israel. 
Sixty-five  years  ago,  on  29  November  1947,  the 
United  Nations  took  a  historic  decision.  The  General 
Assembly,  presided  over  by  Brazilian  Ambassador 
Oswaldo  Aranha,  approved  the  establishment  of  two 
independent States in the Middle East. However, to this 
day  the  unresolved  question  of  Palestine  remains  one 
of  the  most  significant  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security.  As  President  Dilma  Rousseff  stated  in 
her address at the opening of the sixty-seventh general 
debate in September, 
“only  a  free  and  sovereign  Palestine  will  be  able 
to  fulfil  Israel’s  legitimate  desires  for  peace  with 
its neighbours, security in its borders and regional 
political stability” (A/67/PV.6, p. 9). 
A  Palestinian  State  has  become  even  more  urgent 
in the light of the construction and expansion of Israeli 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
including East Jerusalem. That illegal practice remains 
a serious obstacle to peace and to the realization of the 
two-State solution. Freezing settlement construction is, 
however, not enough. The occupation must end. 
12-62131
17
A/67/PV.45
lives  of 
thousands  of 
innocent  civilians, 
The  establishment  of  the  Palestinian  State  is  also 
the  right  response  to  the  violence  that  has  shortened 
the 
in 
particular  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories.  The 
recent  escalation  of  violence  in  Gaza  is  yet  another 
reminder  of  the  high  human  and  political  costs  of  the 
paralysis  of  the  peace  process.  Brazil  firmly  rejects 
extremism and all forms of violence against the civilian 
population. We call upon all actors to fully commit to 
non-violence,  dialogue  and  effective  negotiations.  We 
recall  that  all  parties  to  the  conf lict  have  obligations 
under  international  humanitarian  law  and  must  fully 
abide  by  them.  We  also  insist  on  the  need  to  lift  the 
Gaza blockade.
Brazil reiterates its call on the Security Council to 
fully  carry  out  its  responsibilities.  The  promotion  of 
peace in the Middle East is in the interest of all Members 
of the United Nations and cannot be delegated to third 
parties.  An  inoperative  Quartet  and  a  silent  Security 
Council do not serve the interests of peace in the Middle 
East. Turning to the United Nations, as President Abbas 
has  done  today,  is  part  of  a  peaceful  and  multilateral 
approach,  one  that  is  fully  consistent  with  Security 
Council and General Assembly resolutions. In the light 
of  the  current  obstacles  to  the  immediate  admission 
of  Palestine  as  a  full  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
we  supported,  as  an  interim  measure,  that  Palestine 
be  accorded  non-member  observer  State  status  in  the 
United Nations. We express our great satisfaction at the 
unequivocal show of support that that request received 
from the international community.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  firmly  supports  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  My  country 
congratulates the Palestinian people and authorities on 
their  victory  in  this  Hall  today  on  obtaining  the  new 
status of a non-member observer State. 
With today’s discussion on the situation of Palestine, 
we  add  to  the  long  list  of  discussions  in  the  United 
Nations  that  have  not  led  to  an  effective  solution  that 
can put an end to Israel’s crimes against the Palestinian 
people. Nor has it been possible, 45 years after the fact, to 
reverse Israel’s 1967 occupation of Palestinian territory, 
including East Jerusalem. Israel, the occupying Power, 
continues  to  defy  the  international  community  with 
its  permanent  transgression  of  international  norms 
and treaties, including a long list of resolutions by this 
Assembly and the Security Council. Nor has it heeded 
the  repeated  calls  by  the  Secretary-General  and  other 
directives  from  international  organizations  to  halt  its 
illegal  activities  and  its  crimes  against  the  Palestinian 
people.
Israel  has  continued  and  intensified  its  illegal 
settlement  activities  in  the  West  Bank,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  in  violation  of  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and  its 
obligations under the arrangements set forth in the road 
map.  Acts  of  violence  by  settlers  against  the  civilian 
Palestinian  population  have  increased  without  any 
measures to prevent them on the part of the occupying 
authorities, who have not taken the necessary legal steps 
to hold the perpetrators of such crimes responsible.
Israel  has  continued  to  build  the  illegal  wall  in 
the  West  Bank,  including  in  occupied  East  Jerusalem 
and  surrounding  areas,  in  violation  of  the  advisory 
opinion  issued  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(see  A/ES-10/273).  The  restrictions  have  prevented 
the  majority  of  Palestinians  from  accessing  medical, 
educational and social services as well as markets and 
sacred sites in East Jerusalem. The situation of women 
and  children  in  the  region  is  alarming.  Children  face 
particularly serious difficulties, such as a high dropout 
rate  and  a  low  level  of  scholastic  achievement,  which 
are attributable to the poor educational infrastructure, 
the  lack  of  classrooms  and  the  physical,  bureaucratic 
and other obstacles imposed in order to limit access to 
educational facilities.
Those  facts  ref lect  only  a  small  part  of  the 
information  that  appears  in  reports  and  corroborates 
the  seriousness  of  the  facts  on  the  ground.  There  is 
sufficient  reason  to  adopt  not  only  political  measures 
of  condemnation,  such  as  those  that  the  Assembly 
is  prepared  to  approve  yet  again,  but  also  binding 
Security  Council  decisions  to  stop  Israel’s  crimes 
and  to  punish  those  responsible.  We  wonder  why  the 
Security  Council  is  so  passive  and  inactive  before 
such overwhelming evidence, why it does not move to 
sanction the perpetration of crimes against the people of 
Palestine, why it does not deprive those responsible of 
the financial resources that support their acts and why 
it does not limit their freedom of movement. We wonder 
why  NATO  does  not  express  concern  at  the  constant 
trampling of the human rights of the Palestinian people 
as  a  result  of  Israel’s  aggression.  That  issue  makes 
clear the hypocrisy and the double standard of certain 
developed  countries  that  have  proclaimed  themselves 
champions of the defence of human rights. The United 
18 
12-62131
States  of  America  prevents  the  Security  Council  from 
condemning Israel, a very different treatment from that 
which  it  applies  to  countries  of  the  South  when  they 
oppose and denounce its imperialist policies. 
For  eight  whole  days,  we  witnessed  yet  another 
escalation of violence and death that the Israel Defense 
Forces  unleashed  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  Yet  again,  Israel, 
using its military and technical superiority to brutally 
repress the Palestinian people, caused innocent civilian 
victims  and  enormous  material  damage,  which  has 
exacerbated  the  already  precarious  conditions  for 
people living in that small, besieged territory.
Cuba  reiterates  its  most  strenuous  condemnation 
of  that  new  act  of  aggression  against  the  people  of 
Palestine  and  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
urgently  take  all  necessary  measures  to  prevent  such 
actions from happening again. Cuba repeats its firmest 
support for the just cause of the people of Palestine and 
for their inalienable rights, which include the creation of 
an independent State with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
Cuba  also  supports  the  decision  of  its  Palestinian 
brothers and sisters to apply for entry of their State as 
a full member of the United Nations. Resolution 67/19, 
which  we  have  just  adopted,  marks  a  historic  moment 
and should be a first step towards the entry of Palestine 
as a full member of the Organization.
This  morning,  we  celebrated  once  again  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  following  a  tradition  that  has  brought  us 
together every 29 November since the adoption by the 
General Assembly of resolution 32/40 B in 1977. In his 
usual message on that occasion, the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba  highlighted  the  undeniable  proof  of 
Palestine’s  commitment  to  the  multilateral  system, 
the  progress  of  the  authorities  in  strengthening  State 
institutions, the robustness of those institutions and the 
ability of the Palestinians to exercise their sovereignty 
in an independent State. Likewise, he reiterated that the 
aggression against that fraternal people and the policy 
of illegal settlements have made it impossible to seek a 
just, balanced solution to the conf lict. 
Cuba  reaffirms  its  determination  to  continue 
supporting  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  legitimate 
struggle  for  justice,  dignity,  peace  and  their  right  to 
self-determination in an independent State of Palestine 
with East Jerusalem as its capital.
A/67/PV.45
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Venezuela  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
Allow me to recall some moving verses of the great 
Palestinian  poet  Mahmoud  Darwish  on  the  dramatic 
history of his people: 
“To our land,
and it is the one far from the adjectives of nouns,
the map of absence …
To our land, and it is a prize of war,
the freedom to die from longing and burning
and our land, in its bloodied night,
is a jewel that glimmers for the far upon the far”. 
Venezuela was called by the chroniclers of the Indies 
the “land of grace”. Sephardic Jews escaping from the 
Inquisition  found  refuge  in  our  land.  They  came  in 
search of freedom, peace and happiness. Since the early 
twentieth  century,  hundreds  of  Lebanese,  Syrians  and 
Palestinians from other parts of the world have arrived 
in Venezuela, attracted by the hope of a new life in our 
country. Their contributions to Venezuelan science, arts 
and letters have been enormous. Followers of Judaism 
have also arrived in our lands and have contributed to 
the  progress  and  greatness  of  our  homeland.  We  look 
back  on  that  historical  record  because  the  three  great 
monotheistic  religions  have  peacefully  coexisted, 
which  confirms  the  solid  democratic  tradition  of  our 
people.  Several  hundreds  of  thousands  of  descendants 
of  the  Arab  immigration  currently  live  in  Venezuela, 
as  well  as  thousands  of  Jews,  who  contribute  their 
“all  for  one”,  as  Lope  de  Vega  said,  to  the  forging  of 
Bolívar’s homeland. Venezuela is a country profoundly 
committed  to  the  principles  and  values  of  liberty, 
sovereignty, independence, peace, peaceful coexistence 
and  respect  for  international  law.  That  is  why  the 
Venezuelan community supports the Palestinian cause. 
The  Bolivarian  Government  and  the  people  of 
Venezuela  have  condemned  the  actions  of  the  State 
of Israel against the people of Palestine. It is our hope 
that there will be no further victims in the land where 
the  great  religions  preaching  peace  and  love  emerged. 
We hope for a new era in which swords will be beaten 
into  plowshares,  as  Isaiah  prophesied.  The  National 
Assembly  of  Venezuela,  the  highest  body  of  the 
legislative branch, issued on Tuesday, 20 November, a 
statement condemning the recent attacks on Palestinians 
in  Gaza  and  decided  to  join  today’s  celebration  of  the 
12-62131
19
A/67/PV.45
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People. The Gaza Strip is, as the great American Jewish 
intellectual  Noam  Chomsky  said,  the  largest  open  air 
prison in the world. 
Sixty-five  years  have  passed  since  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Palestinians  were  expelled  from  their 
homes and lands. Since then, they have become refugees 
or  members  of  a  colonized  and  oppressed  people.  On 
29  November  1947,  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  which  proposed  the  establishment 
of two States in the Palestinian territory. Scarcely a few 
days  after  the  adoption  of  that  resolution,  a  military 
offensive  of  territorial  and  demographic  expansion 
began with the purpose of expelling Palestinians from 
their  lands  and  preventing  their  return.  The  State  of 
Israel  was  proclaimed  unilaterally.  On  15  May  1948, 
Al-Nakba began for the Palestinians. It was not only a 
process of expulsion of hundreds of thousands of people 
from  their  lands,  but  also  an  act  of  aggression  against 
their cultural heritage and identity. A planned strategy 
to  change  the  ethnic  and  cultural  composition  of  the 
Palestinian territory was implemented. 
A  dense  framework  of  inhuman policies  was  used 
to complete the segregation and control of Palestinians 
within the colonized territory. Laws were enacted and 
institutions were established that undermined the rights 
of Palestinians to their property and their land. With a 
proliferation  of  settlements  in  the  occupied  territories 
of  Gaza  and  the  West  Bank  and  the  building  of  walls 
and  checkpoints,  the  occupying  Power  has  sought  to 
permanently  prevent  or  restrict  the  free  movement  of 
the  Palestinian  people.  Thousands  of  Palestinian  have 
been  killed  or  imprisoned.  At  least  4,500  of  them, 
including  women  and  children,  are  in  Israeli  prisons. 
We call for their release. The occupying Power practices 
State  terrorism.  It  has  made  Palestine  a  mourning 
and  pain  factory,  violated  international  human  rights 
law  and  international  humanitarian  law  and  failed  to 
comply  with  hundreds  of  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations, which places the State of Israel on the fringes 
of international law. 
The  Israeli  politico-military  elite  has  committed 
many  international  crimes  in  Palestine.  They  have 
implemented  apartheid,  carried  out  ethnic  cleansing, 
applied collective punishment to the civilian population 
and violated the Fourth Geneva Convention. They have 
also  used  weapons  banned  under  international  law  on 
the  civilian  population.  The  war-mongering  Israeli 
elite must therefore be held accountable for war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  committed  against  the 
Palestinian people. However, it is timely to remind those 
who  intend  to  subjugate  the  heroic  Palestinian  people 
ad infinitum of the sentence in the book of Ecclesiastes 
that says, “all is vanity and grasping for the wind”.
The  General  Assembly  cannot  remain  indifferent 
to the suffering of the Palestinian people brought about 
by  the  occupying  Power.  We  pay  tribute  to  the  heroic 
Palestinian  people  and  their  historic  leader,  Yasser 
Arafat.  The  Government  of  President  Hugo  Chávez 
Frías has supported the application of Palestine for the 
status of observer State in the United Nations system and 
has sponsored the momentous resolution 67/19, entitled 
“Status  of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations”.  Today, 
we  adopted  that  resolution  by  a  broad  majority,  which 
grants  the  State  of  Palestine  the  status  of  permanent 
observer State. That is an important step on the road to 
its recognition as a Member State with full rights in the 
United  Nations.  Let  us  celebrate  this  historic  decision 
taken by the General Assembly. Long live the free and 
sovereign Palestinian people.
Mr.  Hassan  (Malaysia):  Malaysia  would  like 
to  align  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
Two  weeks  ago,  Israel  attacked  the  Palestinian 
people in the Gaza Strip. The attack caused the deaths 
of  more  than  165  Palestinians  and  injured  countless 
others. The story remains the same, with Israel, seeing 
itself as a victim of numerous rocket attacks launched 
from  Gaza,  responding  with  a  massive  application  of 
military  power  to  what  it  terms  terrorists,  including 
children,  women  and  the  elderly. We  are  appalled  that 
the international community took one week to stop the 
brutal and aggressive act by Israel. 
The  Parliament  of  Malaysia,  on  19  November, 
passed  a  resolution  condemning  those  attacks  and 
stated  its  unwavering  support  for  the  Palestinians. 
The  Parliament  also  sought  for  the  Security  Council 
to  fulfil  its  Charter  responsibility  and  for  Israel  to  be 
held accountable for the crimes committed against the 
Palestinians. I wish to take the opportunity to express 
my delegation’s sincere condolences to the Palestinian 
people  who  lost  their  lives  in  the  defence  of  their 
homeland.
The attack on Gaza was one of many countless acts 
that  Israel  has  committed  in  violation  of  international 
law,  and  I  believe  that  it  will  not  be  the  last.  Israel’s 
20 
12-62131
defiance  of  international  law  has  been  well  illustrated 
in  the  report  by  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People (A/67/35). 
The  report  shows  that  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  has  not  improved  and  that  Israel 
continues 
including 
humanitarian and human rights law.
international 
to  violate 
law, 
The 
has 
continued 
occupying  Power 
to 
systematically  demolish  Palestinian  homes,  displacing 
the  people  of  the  land  and  intensifying  the  illegal 
settlement activity. There were 589 Palestinian houses 
and buildings demolished during the reporting period. 
In  2011  alone,  110  Palestinian  homes  were  destroyed 
by  the  occupying  Power,  resulting  in  the  further 
displacement  of  the  Palestinian  people.  What  is  clear 
is that Israel intends to change the demographic reality 
on the ground.
The  occupying  Power  has  further  revoked  the 
residency  status  of  over  14,000  Palestinians  from 
Jerusalem, without reason or recourse. They have been 
denied entry into Jerusalem and their right of movement, 
and have thereby been further displaced from their own 
land.  Meanwhile,  Israel  continues  construction  of  the 
separation  wall  that  further  hampers  the  Palestinians 
from  freely  moving  within  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.
The  violations  do  not  stop  there.  My  delegation 
is  appalled  by  the  increasing  number  of  incidents  of 
settler violence. It has been reported that over 500,000 
Israelis  are  now  living  in  144  new  settlements  in  the 
West Bank and East Jerusalem. Even more, the violence 
includes hit-and-run incidents and destruction of private 
property,  including  agricultural  land.  We  believe  that 
such  practices  constitute  methodical  efforts  aimed  at 
removing Palestinians from their homeland.
I  earlier  highlighted  the  recent  Israeli  attack  on 
Gaza. At the same time, the future of Gazans continues 
to  be  grim,  with  the  blockade  entering  its  sixth  year. 
The  socioeconomic  impact  has  been  devastating.  The 
blockade has rendered 80 per cent of Gazans dependent 
upon  humanitarian  assistance.  Also,  44  per  cent 
are  food  insecure,  and  13  per  cent  are  experiencing 
malnutrition,  while  39  per  cent  of  the  people  in  Gaza 
continue  to  live  in  poverty.  The  situation  in  the  Gaza 
Strip is unsustainable. The lives of 1.6 million Gazans 
are indeed in jeopardy.
The  international  community  must  bring  about 
change. Israel’s impunity must be ended and the rule of 
A/67/PV.45
law must prevail. The construction of illegal settlements 
by  Israel  violates 
is 
committed to a two-State solution, the settlements have 
to be dismantled, and no more new illegal settlements 
should ever be built on Palestinian land.
law.  If  Israel 
international 
Israel  must  also  realize  the  need  to  immediately 
lift  the  illegal  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  allow 
the f low of supplies, materials and humanitarian aid to 
reach  the  people.  Israel  must  accept  that  a  lasting  and 
just solution to the question of Palestine would not only 
benefit the Palestinians, but would contribute to Israel’s 
own safety and security in the long run.
The 
international  community  must  continue 
to  support  all  of  the  recommendations  submitted 
in  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  its  work  for  the 
realization  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people,  including  their  right  to  self-determination, 
and  a  negotiated  settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conf lict  resulting  in  the  establishment  of  a  sovereign 
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with  Israel,  in 
peace and security, based on the 1967 borders and with 
East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine.
Today  is  an  important  day  for  all  of  us.  We  are 
observing the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People. I would like to take the opportunity 
to  pay  Malaysia’s  utmost  respect  and  tribute  to  the 
Palestinian  people  for  their  courage  and  strength  in 
continuing  to  demonstrate  steadfastness,  despite  the 
immense hardship they face on a daily basis. 
In solidarity with the people of Palestine, Malaysia 
reiterates  its  unwavering  support  of  the  aspirations 
of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination  and 
independence.  Malaysia  fully  supports  the  Palestinian 
application for membership in the United Nations, as it 
did with regard to its non-member State observer status 
in the United Nations. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Allow  me  to  begin  by  conveying  our 
congratulations  to  the  fraternal  people  of  Palestine. 
We  congratulate  the  Palestinians  on  their  victory 
today through the efforts of Mr. Mahmoud Abbas. The 
adoption of resolution 67/19 by an absolute majority of 
the Assembly and on the strength of conscience, justice, 
fairness, patience is a new affirmation of the justice of 
the Palestinian cause, a justice that was beyond doubt.
The 
international  community 
its 
commitment to a just cause that is recognized by all in 
order  to  meet  the  legitimate  aspirations  and  hopes  of 
reaffirmed 
12-62131
21
A/67/PV.45
the  Palestinian  people.  In  that  regard,  Syria  supports 
the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to create 
a  fully  sovereign  and  independent  Palestinian  State, 
with Jerusalem as its capital and within the borders of 
1967.
Palestine  should  be  accorded  full  United  Nations 
Member State status. The return of Palestinian refugees 
to their motherland should be guaranteed, as should the 
payment of fair reparations for all the suffering that has 
been endured, in accordance with resolution 194 (III), 
of  1948.  We  also  recall  resolution  273  (III),  of  1949, 
which  defines  the  conditions  of  Israel’s  membership 
in the United Nations and calls upon it to consistently 
uphold  the  principles  of  the  Charter  and  resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  also  affirms  the  right  of  the 
Palestinian  people  to  create  an  independent  State  and 
highlights the right of Palestinian refugees to return to 
their  land,  from  which  they  were  expelled  by  Zionist 
gangs.  We  call  for  reparations  to  be  paid  for  those 
damages. 
When  Israel’s  membership  in  the  United  Nations 
was  accepted,  note  was  taken  in  the  Special  Political 
and  Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee), 
of  the  commitment  of  Israel’s  representatives  to 
implementing  and  fully  upholding  those  resolutions. 
Israel’s accession to the United Nations was contingent 
upon  its  commitment  to  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  on  the  creation  of  a  Palestinian  State  and 
the  return  of  its  refugees.  Unfortunately,  however, 
that  commitment  has  been  deliberately  and  blatantly 
f louted in all settlement mechanisms of the Palestinian 
question and of all pending issues with respect to Israel. 
That is because of the public support of some powerful 
States,  which  are  well  known  to  all  and  which  today 
voted  against  the  resolution.  That  only  encourages 
Israel to continue to thumb its nose at the international 
community and not comply with the relevant provisions 
of United Nations resolutions. 
Israel  continues  its  hostile  practices  and  refuses 
peace. It sees itself as a State above the law and enjoys 
impunity. Those who protect Israel have affirmed to the 
Israeli authorities that they are above the law and that 
they  will  be  protected  within  and  beyond  the  United 
Nations and that their violations will go unpunished.
The Israeli occupation has turned the just Palestinian 
question  into  a  simple  series  of  numbers  —  victims, 
wounded, refugees. The Israeli authorities have engaged 
blindly  in  a  war  of  hatred  against  the  Palestinian 
people. They have imposed an unjust colonization and 
settlement policy against the Palestinian people, which 
is unjustifiable and has been passed over in silence by 
those who protect Israel. 
More  than  1,400  martyrs,  including  437  children, 
were  killed  by  the  Israeli  occupation  forces  during 
the  barbarous  attacks  that  took  place  in  Gaza  in  late 
2008. It is surprising that the Israeli incursion and the 
inhuman  embargo  imposed  on  the  Palestinian  people 
and  land  over  several  years  were  not  enough  for  the 
Israeli  authorities  and  did  not  satisfy  their  hatred.  We 
are  not  talking  about  an  embargo  or  blockade  against 
Gaza alone, but about one against the entire Palestinian 
territory. The Israeli authorities resumed their barbarous 
aggressions against Gaza recently, leading to the deaths 
of more than 166 Palestinians, including several women 
and children, as we all know. 
Israel  has  thus  added  to  its  black  list  a  new  crime 
against the peoples and States of the region, committed 
over the course of more than 60 years, during which time 
the Arab people have suffered occupation in Palestine, 
the occupied Syrian Golan and Lebanon. These people 
have  suffered  the  worst  war  crimes,  violations  of 
human rights, forced displacements and other egregious 
crimes. It is the Palestinian people’s right to live as other 
peoples  in  the  world,  in  peace,  freedom  and  dignity. 
However,  that  will  prove  impossible  so  long  as  Israel 
pursues its policies of aggression and continues to f lout 
United Nations resolutions. 
If some powerful States continue to bring pressure 
to  bear  so  as  to  prevent  the  Palestinian  people  from 
enjoying their rights, and continue to support the blind 
and  irresponsible  occupation,  imposing  their  narrow 
political  agenda  within  the  international  Organization 
by  sacrificing  the  principles  of  morality,  justice 
and  international  law,  their  actions  will  undermine 
what  remains  of  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations 
and  threaten  the  very  basis  for  collective  work  in 
the  international  arena,  particularly  in  the  area  of 
international peace and security.
The picture is clear today — the Palestinian cause 
is a just one. We have borne witness to Israel’s isolation 
through  its  aggressive  policies,  including  those  of 
occupation and oppression of the Palestinian people for 
more than six decades. Those policies can no longer be 
protected by Israel’s partners. They have failed. Today, 
in  the  face  of  justice,  the  liars,  the  perpetrators  of 
human rights violations, and all those who have worked 
against democracy have failed. Those who voted against 
resolution  67/19  laid  bare  their  disingenuous  policy 
22 
12-62131
and  political  hypocracy  with  regard  to  the  Palestinian 
question and the Arab-Israeli conf lict. 
We  continue  to  repeat,  and  shall  do  so  today,  that 
Israel  should  not  occupy  other  people’s  land,  attack 
others,  or  impose  injustice  and  oppression  on  the 
Palestinian  people.  Israel  would  have  been  unable 
to  carry  out  such  policies  without  the  support  and 
protection of its partners, who have provided weapons, 
justified  or  obfuscated  the  occupation  and  aggression, 
and  concealed  human  rights  violations  perpetrated  by 
Israel since the 1950s. Those same partners, protectors 
and  sponsors  of  the  Israeli  State  attempt  to  justify 
Israel’s refusal to participate in the Helsinki Conference, 
aimed at making the Middle East a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone,  a  decision  that  was  reached  unanimously  at  the 
2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  It  is 
increasingly clear that this is the picture we are facing 
today. Palestinians know who are their friends and who 
are their true enemies.
Those  who  voted  against  today’s  resolution  are 
against the man who is indeed the Palestinian Gandhi, 
President  Abbas.  Those  individuals  have  decided  not 
to  support  President  Abbas’s  moderation.  How  can 
we  trust  those  States  when  they  talk  about  upholding 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
as well as human rights in general and the rule of law? 
They point to these lofty principles but merely use such 
expressions rhetorically. What they are doing in reality 
is undermining the States and peoples who choose not 
to  support  their  arrogance  and  oppression  of  justice 
among States Members of the United Nations.
We  salute  the  Palestinian  people  and  congratulate 
the Palestinian Authority, which, thanks to its political 
struggle  and  endeavours,  has  been  able  to  defend  the 
just  nature  of  the  Palestinian  cause.  But  there  is  still 
work to be done. True justice means according Palestine 
full  Member  status;  that  will  be  justice.  Today  our 
Palestinian  brothers  are  halfway  to  attaining  that  full 
right. We congratulate them once more.
Mr.  Loulichki  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
would  first  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Abdou  Salam 
Diallo,  Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  for  his 
tireless  efforts  at  the  head  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People. I would also like to commend the Division for 
Palestinian Rights at the United Nations for providing 
information on all aspects of the Palestinian question.
A/67/PV.45
Morocco  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Iran,  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement, and of Djibouti, on behalf of 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
We  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption 
by  a  large  majority  of  resolution  67/19,  which  grants 
Palestine  non-member  observer  State  status  in  the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  to  be  another  critical 
step on the right path to realizing Palestinian aspirations 
to full and complete membership of the United Nations, 
for  which  we  hope  we  will  see  the  necessary  political 
will,  and  to  its  establishment  as  an  independent  and 
viable  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  On 
this  happy  occasion,  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  the 
King,  Government  and  people  of  Morocco,  to  extend 
our  sincere  congratulations  to  the  Palestinian  people, 
wherever they may be, on this historic achievement.
In  a  message  sent  by  His  Majesty  King 
Mohammed  VI  to  the  Chair  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People on the eve of this meeting, His Majesty reiterated:
“Today  the  United  Nations  is  called  upon  to 
shoulder its responsibility and to accept Palestine as 
a non-member State. I wish to take this opportunity 
to renew my full support for the Palestinian National 
Authority,  under  the  leadership  of  my  revered 
brother His Excellency President Mahmoud Abbas, 
on the occasion of the auspicious step he is taking. 
The Kingdom of Morocco calls for the mobilization 
of international support to back the measures taken 
by  the  Palestinian  National  Authority  in  order  to 
obtain  non-member  Status.  My  country  is  of  the 
view that negotiation is the best way to reclaim the 
legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people 
and set up an independent sovereign State”. 
the 
to  effectively  realize 
The Assembly’s resolution, adopted at this historic 
moment,  embodies  the  firm  will  of  the  international 
community 
inalienable 
rights of the Palestinian people and achieve a peaceful 
settlement in the Middle East that will end the occupation 
and  realize  the  two-State  vision.  That  important  step 
is  the  logical  result  of  the  stalemate  in  the  peace 
process, following the expiration of the deadline set to 
reach a peaceful settlement on the basis of a two-State 
solution, specified by the international community here 
before  the  General  Assembly.  That  effort  on  the  part 
of  the  Palestinians  is  also  the  culmination  of  tireless 
Palestinian  efforts  to  establish  the  basic  tenets  of 
an  independent  State,  with  functioning  institutions, 
12-62131
23
A/67/PV.45
and  which  have  thus  encouraged  more  than  135 
countries  to  recognize  it.  Those  efforts  have  also  led 
to regional and international organizations recognizing 
and  commending  the  effectiveness  of  Palestinian 
institutions, despite the challenges they face in assuming 
their  responsibilities  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  the 
international community.
Today’s resolution, which the Palestinian Authority 
has  been  working  towards,  enjoys  the  support  of  all 
Palestinian forces without exception, thus establishing 
another  focus  for  efforts  towards  the  long-sought 
goal  of  Palestinian  national  reconciliation.  This  is  an 
occasion  that  may  perhaps  help  to  heal  the  wounds  of 
the Palestinians of Gaza after the inhumane eight days 
of aggressive Israeli raids — aggression that has not let 
up for years. 
We welcome the ceasefire and commend the efforts 
of  the  regional  and  international  parties  that  have 
helped  to  secure  it,  but  we  hope  that  the  international 
community  will  mobilize  efforts  to  deal  with  the 
consequences  of  Israel’s  aggression  against  Gaza  and 
to  help  Palestinian  civilians  return  to  their  normal 
daily lives. We also look forward to the possibility that 
the  ceasefire  will  encourage  continued  regional  and 
international efforts to deal with the situation in Gaza 
through a new approach, leading to the opening of the 
border  crossings,  allowing  the  movement  of  people 
and goods, and ending the unjust blockade against the 
Palestinian people in Gaza.
At  the  same  time,  we  stress  the  importance  of 
continuing  to  support  Palestinian  refugees  through 
United Nations programmes and agencies, particularly 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East,  with  adequate 
means  in  order  to  meet  the  basic  needs  of  Palestinian 
people in the territories where they operate.
This  year  has  witnessed  an  unprecedented 
expansion  of  settlements  in  the  Palestinian  and  Arab 
occupied  territories.  Settlements  are  the  intractable 
obstacle  to  negotiations.  The  Israeli  occupying  Power 
has  used  its  legal  arsenal  and  military  might,  as  well 
as  its  settlers,  to  change  the  demographic  facts  on  the 
ground and to further annex Palestinian territories. As 
part of the same policies of aggression, East Jerusalem 
has witnessed extremely serious developments whereby 
the rate of settlement building has increased and military 
posts  and  tourist  projects,  as  well  as  Government  and 
civil institutions, have have been established — further 
steps  aimed  at  isolating  the  city  from  its  Arab  and 
Palestinian  environment.  The  King  of  Morocco,  as 
Chairman of the OIC Jerusalem Committee, reiterates 
its strong condemnation of the accelerating settlement 
activities  in  Jerusalem,  the  birthplace  of  the  three 
heavenly religions. 
We  reiterate  our  strong  support  of  the  Palestinian 
people  in  general,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem  in 
particular, in their peaceful struggle to hold on to their 
land,  city  and  holy  sites.  We  are  deeply  concerned  by 
the stalemate in negotiations caused by Israeli policies 
of  colonialism.  However,  we  hold  on  to  peace  as  a 
strategic  option,  and  we  strongly  believe  that  the  path 
towards peace must not be abandoned. We look forward 
to the dynamic that will be generated by international 
moves  to  put  an  end  to  the  aggression  against  Gaza. 
We  also  welcome  resolution  67/19  and  other  great 
developments  in  the  Middle  East.  We  hope  that  all 
of  those  developments  will  create  a  new,  effective 
and  serious  approach  to  breaking  the  unprecedented 
stalemate in the peace process before it is too late.
Developments in the Arab region have inaugurated 
a new era in which peoples have regained their ability 
to  contribute  to  their  present  and  their  future.  It  is  in 
Israel’s  interest  not  to  misread  those  developments.  It 
should  become  actively  involved  by  making  efforts 
to  create  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  that  ensures 
the  realization  of  the  legitimate  Palestinian  rights  to 
establish  their  own  independent  and  sovereign  State 
within  the  1967  borders  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. It should work for a final and permanent peace 
that  provides  security  for  all  people  in  the  region 
and  pave  the  way  for  further  withdrawal  from  other 
occupied Lebanese and Syrian territories.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  the 
occasion  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the  Palestinian  People,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
full  support  for  the  heroic  struggle  of  the  Palestinian 
people to put an end to their suffering. We would like 
to  reiterate  our  support  for  the  inalienable  rights  of 
the Palestinian people, particularly their rights to self-
determination, to rid themselves of Israeli occupation, 
and to establish their own independent, sovereign State, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
My  delegation  would  like,  at  the  outset,  to 
congratulate  the  people  and  Government  of  Palestine 
for the historic decision by the United Nations to grant 
Palestine the status of non-member observer State as a 
prelude to attaining full membership. We are confident 
that  granting  the  status  of  non-member  observer  State 
24 
12-62131
will enable Palestine to play its role as a peace-loving 
nation committed to international law and instruments 
and as a factor for peace and stability in the region and 
the world.
The  Palestinian  people  continue  to  live  under 
occupation,  violence  and  aggression,  committed 
not  only  by  the  Israeli  army  but  also  by  extremist 
settlers  who  are  systematic 
their  aggression, 
while  the  occupying  Power  turns  a  blind  eye  and  the 
international  community  remains  alarmingly  silent, 
condoning  Israel’s  f lagrant  violations  and  not  holding 
it accountable for its actions.
in 
Israel’s continued aggression against the Palestinian 
people and its fait-accompli policies encourage settlers 
to commit daily acts of aggression against Palestinians 
and their properties. Israel seeks through such practices 
to shirk its international commitments and to alter the 
demographic facts on the ground, changing the nature of 
East Jerusalem and its environs to remove their Islamic 
and  Arab  character,  and  to  further  annex  Palestinian 
territories  in  a  way  that  would  make  any  future 
resolution based on a two-State solution impossible.
The  blatant  aggression  experienced  in  Gaza,  the 
continuing  deterioration  of  the  living  conditions  of 
the Palestinian people there, and the absence of a firm 
international  position  on  Israel’s  repeated  violations 
of  international  law  and  resolutions  are  evils  the 
Palestinians  in  Gaza  can  no  longer  tolerate.  In  that 
context,  the  international  community  is  called  upon 
to  take  serious  measures  to  break  the  stalemate  in 
the  negotiations  on  the  just  Palestinian  cause  and  to 
relaunch negotiations based on international legitimacy 
and the terms of reference.
International  efforts  in  recent  years  have  focused 
on  managing  the  conf lict,  but  they  have  proven 
inadequate, and there is an urgent need to take serious 
steps to deal with the substantive issues. We must work 
together and direct our joint efforts towards creating a 
new dynamic to deal with the basic, substantive issues 
of the conf lict.
We  are  all  aware  that  the  two-State  solution  is  an 
important  basis  for  any  serious  peaceful  attempt  to 
restore  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
That  concept  is  based  not  on  a  vacuum,  but  on  the 
decisions  and  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  Powers.  We  must  work  hard  to  implement 
those  resolutions.  We  are  confident  that  it  is  still 
possible for the international community to put an end 
A/67/PV.45
to the stalemate in the peace negotiations and to revive 
and give new momentum to the peace process. In that 
context,  we  hope  that  the  United  Nations,  particularly 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  will 
continue to shoulder their historic responsibility in this 
sensitive time for the Palestinian question by focusing 
on  the  basic  issues  and  working  to  settle  the  conf lict 
through redoubled peace efforts. 
Mr.  Shaanika  (Namibia):  I  thank  you,  Madame, 
for  giving  me  the  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly on this important agenda item. This afternoon, 
we had the privilege to welcome Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, 
President  of  the  Palestinian  National  Authority,  to  the 
General  Assembly,  and  we  congratulate  him  on  the 
status and support he and his people received today. 
While my delegation aligns itself with the statements 
to  be  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Senegal on behalf of Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People and by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  allow 
me also to make additional comments on behalf of my 
country, Namibia.
Today we observe the International Day of Solidarity 
with the Palestinian People to highlight the plight of the 
people of Palestine, who for many years have endured 
great  hardship  under  the  Israeli  occupation.  It  is  our 
conviction  that  occupation  of  any  territory  by  force 
is  a  moral  scourge  and  politically  unacceptable.  In 
the  twenty-first  century,  people  everywhere  on  planet 
Earth are supposed to enjoy life in larger freedom and 
be guaranteed the right to determine their own future. 
Today  we  adopted  resolution  67/19,  regarding 
the  status  of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations.  The 
resolution  tests  the  sincerity  and  commitment  of  all 
States Members of the United Nations to the principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the Organization. The people 
of Palestine have a genuine desire to exercise their right 
to self-determination. As a people who once lived under 
occupation  and  was  subjected  to  the  brutal  apartheid 
system, we in Namibia know very well how it feels to 
live  under  foreign  domination  and  dehumanization  by 
the occupying Power. People in occupied territories are 
dispossessed  of  everything  and  live  in  constant  fear 
of  uncertainty.  Quite  often  they  watch  the  bulldozers 
tearing their houses down and their means of livelihood 
being  destroyed.  They  watch  helplessly  as  settlements 
are built on their land and walls of annexation erected.
12-62131
25
A/67/PV.45
We  in  Namibia  have  followed  with  great  concern 
the  confiscation  of  land  and  destruction  of  homes  to 
make  room  for  new  Israeli  settlements  on  Palestinian 
land.  Yet,  when  the  people  of  Palestine  come  to  the 
United  Nations  to  seek  recognition,  they  are  told  that 
it is counterproductive to the peace process. One is left 
to  wonder  whether  there  is  any  grain  of  sincerity  in 
the  argument  that  seeking  recognition  of  Palestine  in 
the  United  Nations  is  counterproductive  to  the  peace 
process.  One  is  tempted  to  ask  how  support  for  the 
resolution adopted today and the call to end the illegal 
occupation  of  the  Palestinian  land  can  be  considered 
counterproductive  to  the  realization  of  a  two-State 
solution.  What  about  such  provocative  actions  as  the 
displacement  of  Palestinians,  the  mass  detention  of 
children,  and  the  destruction  of  homes  and  means  of 
livelihood?  Do  such  actions  contribute  to  the  peace 
process?
In our view, the resolution we have adopted today 
is  meant  to  enhance  efforts  leading  to  the  creation 
of  an  independent,  sovereign,  contiguous  and  viable 
Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
which will coexist with Israel on the basis of the 1967 
borders.  My  delegation  does  not  consider  voting  in 
favour  of  the  resolution  to  be  counterproductive  to 
the peace process, which has in any case has been at a 
standstill for the past few years.
As  long  as  the  people  of  Palestine  are  denied  the 
right  to  self-determination,  Namibia  will  continue  to 
extend  its  unwavering  support  to  and  solidarity  with 
them.  We  fully  support  the  aspiration  of  Palestine  not 
only  in  what  they  have  achieved  today,  but  we  look 
forward  to  the  day  when  the  State  of  Palestine  will 
finally  join  this  family  of  sovereign  and  independent 
nations.  The  rights  of  the  people  of  Palestine  do  not 
come  from  the  generosity  of  the  occupying  Power; 
those rights are inherently endowed from birth.
Every  country  represented  here  in  this  assembly 
of nations is sovereign in its own right. Therefore, the 
action we take should be guided by our moral conscience 
in line with international law, and not by threat or fear 
of  perceived  threats.  If  we  subject  our  action  to  fear, 
then  our  moral  conscience  will  be  taken  hostage  by 
the  forces  of  fear.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
calls  on  all  of  us  “to  unite  our  strength  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security”.  It  does  not  call  for 
division through weakness and fear.
As  we  supported  the  resolution  adopted  today, 
we  call  on  all  the  Palestinians  and  Israelis  to  find  the 
courage  to  commit  themselves  to  peace  so  that,  when 
peace is finally achieved, they shall sit every man under 
his vine and under his fig tree.
The meeting rose at 9 p.m.
26 
12-62131
