United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
28th plenary meeting
Monday, 22 October 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.28
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda items 9 and 14
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/67/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/298)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of 
and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields
Notes by the Secretary-General 
(A/67/82 and A/67/270)
The  President:  In  connection  with  agenda  item 
9, I would like to recall for members that, pursuant to 
General  Assembly  resolution  58/316,  of  1  July  2004, 
the  Assembly,  on  the  recommendation  of  the  General 
Committee,  decided  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on 
21  September  2012,  to  consider  agenda  item  9  in  its 
entirety  in  plenary,  on  the  understanding  that  the 
administrative,  programme  and  budgetary  aspects 
should be dealt with by the Fifth Committee.
At the same meeting, the Assembly took note of the 
clarification that, in implementing resolution 58/316 to 
consider  item  9  in  its  entirety  in  plenary,  the  relevant 
parts  of  chapter  I  of  the  report  that  are  under  agenda 
items already allocated to the Main Committees will be 
considered by the Committee concerned for final action 
by the General Assembly.
In connection with agenda item 14, members will 
recall that, pursuant to resolution 57/270 B, the Assembly 
decided to consider the item the chapters of the annual 
report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  relevant 
to  the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
including  through  the  participation  in  its  discussions 
of the President of the Council.
I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  give  the 
opening remarks before the presentation of the report 
of the Economic and Social Council for 2012 (A/67/3). 
The  General  Assembly  and  the  Council  have  a  long-
standing  tradition  of  cooperation,  and  I  look  forward 
to strengthening that valuable relationship throughout 
the sixty-seventh session. My Office and the Council’s 
Bureau  have  intensified  their  contacts  over  the  past 
month with the aim of improving coordination and the 
overall  effectiveness  of  our  work.  President  Koterec 
and  I  have  discussed  a  number  of  issues  of  common 
interest,  including  how  to  strengthen  our  shared 
approach to the sustainable development agenda and to 
promoting a more inclusive global economy.
In my address to the Economic and Social Council 
special  ministerial  meeting,  one  of  the  questions  I 
raised  was  how  to  fortify  multilateral  responses  to 
development  challenges.  I  welcomed  the  Council’s 
commitment to playing a more pronounced role in the 
post-2015  discussions,  in  the  light  of  the  mandate  it 
received from world leaders gathered in Rio in June. The 
statement issued at the end of the Ministerial Meeting 
reaffirmed 
that  a  more  sustainable  development 
model  can  be  achieved  only  through  a  broad  alliance 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-56130 (E)
*1256130*
A/67/PV.28
of peoples, Governments, civil society and the private 
sector. That view is in line with the message of the “The 
future  we  want”,  the  outcome  document  (resolution 
66/288,  annex)  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20). 
I  believe  that  we  should  also  encourage  enhanced 
participation in our efforts by the world’s public policy 
institutes  and  think-tanks.  I  hope  that  we  can  work 
together  to  find  ways  to  draw  on  their  tremendous 
capabilities  more  effectively  so  that  we  can  benefit 
from their wisdom and experience more than has been 
the case in the past.
A  mandate  was  given  to  the  General  Assembly 
to  establish  an  intergovernmental  process  to  propose 
options for an effective ﬁ nancing strategy to advance the 
Rio+20  agenda. We  were  also  given  the  responsibility 
of  preparing  a  high-level  forum,  to  be  launched  at  the 
beginning  of  next  session.  In  addition,  the  General 
Assembly  was  tasked  with  establishing  a  working 
group  to  propose  a  list  of  sustainable  development 
goals  for  consideration  and  adoption  by  the  plenary. 
The  Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  is 
another  significant  part  of  this  process,  as  is  the  role 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  in  accordance 
with  paragraphs  82  and  83  of  the  Rio+20  concluding 
document.
the  critical 
Let  me  underline 
importance  of 
enhancing  coordination  between 
the  Secretariat, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  session.  We  need  to  ensure  that  our 
work  is  mutually  reinforcing  and  complementary,  and 
that  we  avoid  any  duplication  of  effort.  Here,  I  would 
like  to  mention  Africa  in  particular.  I  deeply  believe 
that  we  must  better  address  its  special  needs  in  the 
time  ahead  so  that  we  can  bridge  the  gap  effectively 
between that continent’s promise and the reality on the 
ground.  I  believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  truly 
prioritize supporting African nations in unlocking their 
full potential.
As  I  underlined  in  my  address  to  last  month’s 
Economic  and  Social  Council  ministerial  meeting,  I 
am  of  the  opinion  that  the  General  Assembly  should 
play a more pronounced role in the ongoing debate on 
global economic governance. Let me be very clear that 
the  intent  is  not  to  infringe  on  existing  prerogatives 
but  to  complement  existing  efforts,  in  order  to  help 
answer  a  number  of  questions  related  to  transparency, 
inclusiveness and legitimacy. 
To  that  end,  I  would  like  to  bring  three  mutually 
reinforcing initiatives to members’ attention. The first 
is the participation of the Economic and Social Council 
in helping to organize an informal high-level debate in 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  United  Nations  in  world 
economic  governance,  in  accordance  with  resolution 
66/256.  I  will  continue  to  consult  with  the  Member 
States and President Koterec on the matter and expect 
to  reach  a  common  position  on  how  to  proceed  in  the 
near future.
As  President,  I  signal  my  intention  to  build  closer 
international 
and  more  formalized  relations  with 
financial  institutions,  such  as  the World  Bank  and the 
International Monetary Fund, as well as with the Group 
of  Twenty  (G-20).  That  constitutes  a  second  aspect  of 
the approach I believe we should take. I would welcome 
the  involvement  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
in  this  endeavour,  to  be  coordinated  with  the  General 
Assembly.  Senior  representatives  from  the  G-20  will 
continue to brief the Assembly, as has been the custom 
in previous years.
In my view, we could all benefit from regularizing 
those interactions. That is why I have proposed to launch 
a  process  leading  to  the  establishment  of  an  effective 
consultative framework between the General Assembly 
and  various  intergovernmental  financial  institutions 
and informal groupings, with a focus on the G-20.
A  third  aspect  involves  holding  debates  and 
conferences  on  global  economic  issues  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Assembly  ahead  of  the  G-20  Summit 
in  Saint  Petersburg  next  year.  In  that  context,  I  am 
pleased  to  welcome  the  idea  of  the  Government  of 
Kazakhstan to coordinate the agenda of the May 2013 
Astana Economic Forum with related efforts here in the 
United Nations. That annual gathering of distinguished 
economists  and  some  of  the  world’s  most  innovative 
and  inf luential  minds  from  the  private  sector,  think-
tanks  and  civil  society  is  an  important  platform  for 
exchanging  views,  experiences  and  best  practices  on 
major  economic,  financial  and  social  development 
issues.
I believe that a more dynamic Economic and Social 
Council  can  make  an  even  stronger  contribution  to 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  report  before 
us  today  serves  as  an  important  reference  point  in the 
process.  In  accordance  with  resolution  61/16,  I  will 
shortly  announce  the  appointment  of  co-facilitators 
to  lead  consultations  on  how  to  further  strengthen the 
Council. In my view, the task is of the utmost importance 
2 
12-56130
for the General Assembly, especially given the mandate 
we  share  with  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Secretariat to follow up on the outcomes of Rio+20, as 
well as our common responsibilities to set the post-2015 
agenda.
I  believe  that  the  Assembly  and  the  Council 
can  become  central  pillars  in  ongoing  multilateral 
cooperation  efforts  in  the  related  fields  of  sustainable 
development  and  global  economic  governance,  in 
keeping with the terms of Chapter IX of the Charter of 
the United Nations. By working more closely together, 
we  can  help  further  promote  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations in setting the world on a more secure, equitable 
and prosperous path.
I give the ﬂ oor to the Vice-President of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis-Alfonso 
de  Alba,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council.
Mr.  De  Alba  (Mexico),  Vice-President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council (spoke in Spanish): Allow 
me to thank you, Sir, for your introductory remarks to 
our  debate  on  the  agenda  item  before  us.  Your  words, 
in  particular  your  readiness  to  cooperate  very  closely 
with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  are  without 
doubt very welcome. All members of the Economic and 
Social Council consider it to be essential, as you said, 
that  we  work  together  and  pool  our  efforts,  especially 
in  developing  the  mandates  with  which  we  have  been 
entrusted  by  meetings  recently  held,  particularly  that 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20).  You  may  rest  assured  that  all 
members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Bureau will work as closely as possible with you.
The report that I have submitted for 2012 (A/67/3) 
reveals a year of productive work and a wide range of 
activities. At the same time, it has also been a year of 
preparation for tackling new challenges under the able 
leadership of Ambassador Koterec of Slovakia. I would 
like on this occasion simply to draw attention to some 
of  the  most  prominent  aspects  of  our  work  during  the 
period. 
First,  I  would  recall  that,  as  the  principal  organ 
of  the  United  Nations  responsible  for  development 
matters,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  served 
as a platform in 2012 for over 40 ministers, high-level 
political  policymakers,  eminent  academics,  leading 
businessmen  and  members  of  civil  society  to  share 
views  and  know-how  regarding  opportunities  for  job 
A/67/PV.28
creation  for  all.  In  association  with  the  International 
Labour Organization and the United Nations system in 
general, the Economic and Social Council has advocated 
an integrated, results-based approach to addressing the 
employment  crisis.  Specifically,  it  has  recommended 
that  collective  endeavours 
focus  on  productive 
employment, on jobs in the green economy, particularly 
for  young  people,  and  on  social  protection.  Those 
recommendations  were  set  down  in  a  comprehensive 
ministerial  declaration,  emphasizing  also  the  need  for 
collective  measures  to  be  immediately  put  into  effect 
to boost productivity and generate quality jobs for the 
unemployed and underemployed throughout the world.
As  in  previous  years,  ministerial  considerations 
were  based  on  a  consultative  process.  National  and 
regional  views  of  problems  related  to  employment 
were  folded  into  the  general  consideration  of  the  job 
crisis at the world level. Through preparatory meetings 
in  Africa,  the  Asia-Pacific  region  and  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean,  consultations  were  held  with  key 
regional  actors  on  matters  ranging  from  productivity 
to  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  as  well  as 
inclusive  growth.  The  consultations  were  a  major 
platform for the exchange of best practices and regional 
experiences.
In  addition,  eight  countries  made  voluntary 
national  presentations  to  inform  the  Council  on  the 
progress  achieved  towards  their  national  development 
objectives  and  on  continuing  difficulties  in  achieving 
their employment-related objectives and aims. 
In  the  series  of  high-level  meetings  held,  the 
2012  Development  Cooperation  Forum  enjoyed 
unprecedented  levels  of  participation  and  interest. 
Indeed,  the  Forum,  which  has  met  on  only  three 
occasions,  has  already  consolidated  its  position  as  a 
critical  space  for  dialogue  on  policies  and  technical 
guidance  regarding  development.  Recent  appeals  to 
make cooperation for development more inclusive will 
no doubt ensure a greater role and prominence for work 
of this nature.
In the series of coordination meetings, consideration 
was  given  to  the  follow-up  by  the  United  Nations 
system to the Economic and Social Council ministerial 
declaration  of  2011  on  education.  Particular  emphasis 
was  placed  on  the  collaborative  association  of  United 
Nations bodies, civil society and the private sector. An 
in-depth consideration also took place on the matter of 
the  disconnect  between  knowledge  and  aptitudes,  on 
12-56130
3
A/67/PV.28
the  one  hand,  and  the  needs  of  the  labour  market,  on 
the other. 
In the Council’s coordination meetings, consideration 
was also given to the follow-up process for the Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Conference on Financing for 
Development.  It  was  agreed  to  avoid  overlap  between 
this  process  and  the  outcomes  of  Rio+20  in  terms  of 
financing for development. Likewise, a special meeting 
was  held  on  innovative  mechanisms  of  development 
financing.  That  meeting  concluded  by  highlighting 
the  need  to  consolidate  global  endeavours  through 
special funds that could extend existing initiatives and 
introduce  new,  innovative  mechanisms,  such  as  green 
vouchers, without duplicating efforts. 
for 
During  the  series  of  meetings  on  operational 
activities,  preparations  were  completed 
the 
Assembly’s  quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review 
of operational activities for development of the United 
Nations system. In this regard, consideration was given 
to the following matters, among others: assessment of the 
funding of the United Nations system; the establishment 
of  better  instruments  to  enhance  coherence;  the 
strengthening  of  the  resident  coordinator  system;  and 
the  enhancement  of  the  efficacy  of  entrepreneurial 
activities. This has given rise to a very solid analytical 
foundation  on  which  to  base  efforts  to  ensure  that  the 
work of the Assembly during the current session can be 
pursued in the most substantive manner possible. 
The  series  of  meetings  on  humanitarian  matters 
focused,  as  in  earlier  years,  on  the  most  complex 
emergencies  occurring  around  the  world  and  on 
solutions  to  improve  responses  to  future  crises.  As 
we all remember, that series of meetings this year was 
notable  for  its  emphasis  on  the  transition  from  aid  to 
development, particularly in addressing the challenges 
of  the  Sahel  region.  Many  participants  drew  attention 
to  the  need  to  maintain  the  f low  of  international  aid 
at  a  level  above  and  beyond  what  is  needed  in  terms 
of  an  immediate  response  in  that  region.  Specifically, 
development  assistance  in  the  region  must  encourage 
growth and promote stability and shared prosperity for 
all. 
In  the  series  of  general  meetings,  the  Council 
adopted measures with respect to a very wide range of 
issues on the basis of reports prepared by the functional 
and 
non-governmental 
organizations, 
the  Committee  of  Experts  on 
International Cooperation in Tax Matters, and various 
commissions, 
regional 
specialized  bodies  and  experts.  Allow  me  to  brief ly 
draw attention to three concrete outcomes of that series 
of meetings. 
First,  a  new  plan  of  action  was  adopted  to  ensure 
that  the  entire  system  can  make  progress  on  gender 
equality and the advancement of women. 
With  respect  to  the  least  developed  countries,  the 
Council  paved  the  way  for  follow-up  to  the  Istanbul 
Programme of Action and supported the inclusion of the 
Republic of South Sudan on the list of least developed 
countries  and  the  removal  of  Vanuatu  from  that  same 
list.  The  Council  urgently  appeals  to  the  General 
Assembly  to  promptly  adopt  measures  with  respect  to 
these recommendations. 
In  addition,  particular  attention  was  given  to  aid 
effectiveness  and  policy  coherence  in  South  Sudan 
and Haiti, emphasizing efforts to ensure commitment, 
transparency and accountability among those involved 
in  the  development  of  those  countries.  At  the  same 
time,  the  Council  focused  on  strengthening  its  own 
collaborative  relationships,  recognizing  an  additional 
286  non-governmental  organizations  as  consultative 
entities.
The Economic and Social Council must continue to 
build on the foundations of its 2012 achievements, taking 
into  account  the  challenges  inherent  in  sustainable 
development,  including  the  integration  of  the  three 
principal pillars of sustainable development. The United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
re-emphasized the mandate of the Economic and Social 
Council  as  one  of  the  principal  organs  responsible 
for  the  integrated  and  coordinated  follow-up  of  the 
outcomes  of  all  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social,  environmental  and 
associated  fields.  It  also  recognized  —  and  I  think 
this  is  particularly  important  —  that  the  Council  has 
made  a  decisive  contribution  to  the  integration  of  the 
three  pillars  of  sustainable  development  in  a  balanced 
fashion. As you stated, Sir, this must be further pursued 
by the Assembly. 
This  renewed  and  strengthened  mandate  requires 
the Economic and Social Council to build its capacity 
to  successfully  integrate  the  social,  environmental 
and  economic  agendas  and  to  convene  all  relevant 
actors.  It  has 
the  Secretary-
General  —  and,  through  him,  Member  States  and 
other  relevant  actors  —  to  submit  proposals  on  its 
strengthening, particularly of its methods of work. 
therefore  requested 
4 
12-56130
A/67/PV.28
Lastly,  allow  me  to  state  that  the  Bureau  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  welcomes  the  unfailing 
cooperation  of  Governments  and  other  associated 
actors  within  the  United  Nations  system  that  support 
these  reform  processes  and  who  await  concrete 
proposals,  having  repeatedly  affirmed  their  readiness 
to  immediately  undertake  significant  efforts  for  a 
comprehensive  reform  and  the  construction  of  the 
future we all want.
The  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the  observer  of 
the European Union.
Mr.  Beviglia  Zampetti  (European  Union):  I  have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  acceding  country 
Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Montenegro  and  Serbia; 
the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association 
Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  introducing 
the  Council’s  report  (A/67/3).  We  would  also  like  to 
acknowledge  with  gratitude  the  support  provided  by 
the Secretariat to the Council this year. The European 
Union  and  its  member  States  commend  the  work  of 
the Council during the reporting period and recognize 
the  committed  leadership  of  its  President,  Mr.  Miloš 
Koterec of Slovakia, and of the Bureau.
In  the  next  few  weeks  and  months,  we  will  be 
actively  engaged  in  the  review  of  resolution  61/16  on 
the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council. 
In  that  regard,  this  statement  will  focus  on  three 
points.  First,  the  EU  is  encouraged  by  the  progress 
in  the  revitalization  of  the  Council.  The  Development 
Cooperation Forum and the annual ministerial review, 
for  example,  have  become  important  elements  of 
the  Council’s  substantive  session.  Secondly,  while 
we  primarily  need  to  build  upon  that  progress,  there 
is  room  for  improvement  in  many  areas  in  order  to 
make  the  Council  more  effective  and  efficient  in  its 
working methods. Thirdly, the relevance of the Council 
ultimately depends on our own willingness to make it 
work.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  would  like  to 
acknowledge  the  comprehensive  preparations  carried 
out for the substantive session of the Council, including 
through  the  organization  of  events  such  as  the  joint 
meeting  with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
dialogue with youth representatives on jobs held during 
the year. We equally welcome the work on employment 
undertaken  by  the  Council  at  its  current  session. 
We  appreciate  the  role  of  the  Council  in  fostering 
dialogue  and  helping  to  forge  converging  views  and  a 
coherent  policy  vision  on  the  follow-up  to  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  and, 
in  particular,  the  contribution  of  the  Development 
Cooperation Forum to promoting the broader post-2015 
development  agenda,  especially  on  issues  related  to 
development  effectiveness,  mutual  accountability  and 
development-oriented partnerships.
The Economic and Social Council is an important 
and,  in  some  respects,  essential  institutional  home 
for  our  debates  and  deliberations.  It  provides  us  with 
a  useful  mechanism  for  oversight  and  coordination  of 
the crucial United Nations work in the economic, social 
and  environmental  fields,  including  its  operational 
activities  for  development.  The  Council  also  has  a 
strong  mandate  to  contribute  to  improved  coherence 
and coordination and a balanced integration of the three 
dimensions of sustainable development and of the long-
term  perspective  regarding  policymaking.  We  should 
collectively  commit  to  following  up  on  these  efforts 
over time.
However,  there  is  always  room  for  improvement. 
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  can  build  on  its 
convening  power  at  the  international  level  on  global 
challenges,  trends  and  emerging  issues.  The  Council 
has a unique position as the main body for system-wide 
coordination and for the follow-up to and implementation 
of  the  outcomes  of  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social,  environmental  and 
related  fields.  The  Council  should  strive  to  ensure 
better  coherence  in  the  way  the  system  of  subsidiary 
bodies, funds and programmes is able to respond to the 
mandates  emanating  from  those  outcomes.  It  should 
ensure a coherent policy vision for the Rio+20 follow-
up  and  the  broader  post-2015  development  agenda, 
contributing  to  convergence  and  coordination  and 
avoiding the overlapping and duplication of processes. 
Moreover,  the  multi-stakeholder  nature  of  the 
Economic and Social Council is one of its most important 
features  and  something  we  should  capitalize  on.  The 
Council  has  to  be  a  window  to  realities  outside  the 
halls of the United Nations. The further strengthening 
of the Council’s interactions with all stakeholders will 
12-56130
5
A/67/PV.28
certainly  improve  public  perception  not  only  of  that 
body,  but  also  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole,  and 
increase  its  ability  to  play  a  relevant  role  in  global 
affairs. The implementation of sustainable development 
is a multi-stakeholder exercise that the Council should 
also better ref lect in its working methods. 
to  review 
Ultimately,  as  we  endeavour 
the 
implementation  of  relevant  provisions  related  to  the 
revitalization  of  the  Council,  it  is  our  firm  belief  that 
the Council will be as strong and as relevant as we want 
it  to  be.  As  one  participant  stated  during  the  special 
ministerial  meeting  of  the  Council  in  September, 
“we  get  the  ECOSOC  we  deserve”.  The  EU  and  its 
member  States  stand  ready  to  actively  participate, 
together with all our partners, in the ref lection on how 
to further improve the Economic and Social Council’s 
effectiveness.
Mr.  Pisarevich  (Belarus)  (spoke 
in  Russian): 
We  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your  introductory 
remarks  and  the  Vice-President  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of 
the report of the Council (A/67/3). 
Belarus  commends  the  activities  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council and notes the innovative approaches 
in  its  work.  The  Council  remains  the  key  policy 
platform  at  the  global  level  for  crafting  strategies  for 
collective  action  in  the  area  of  global  development. 
The  Development  Cooperation  Forum  reaffirmed 
that  fact.  That  event  made  it  possible  to  undertake  an 
analysis  of  current  trends  in  international  cooperation 
in  the  context  of  the  outcomes  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20).
We  view  the  Council  as  the  coordinator  for 
practical  implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  Rio 
Conference  in  order  to  reach  a  global  transition  to 
sustainable development. We must not let the consensus 
achieved in Brazil be buried by endless argument over 
procedural  issues.  After  all,  that  in  principle  would 
delay  substantive  discussion  by 
international 
community  on  problematic  issues  and  the  formulation 
of the post-2015 agenda.
the 
that 
We  believe 
the  Council’s  efforts  at 
macroeconomic coordination seek to ensure sustainable 
and  balanced  growth  of  the  world  economy.  The 
Council  must  act  to  ensure  full  compliance  with  the 
principles  of  free  and  fair  trade,  which  preclude  the 
use  of  various  protectionist  measures  and  unilateral 
economic  sanctions.  Furthermore,  the  Council  must 
work to ensure that the implementation of the concepts 
of sustainable development and the green economy do 
not  aggravate  the  existing  development  gap  between 
developing  and  developed  countries,  strengthen  the 
technological  dependency  of  developing  countries 
on  developed  countries,  reduce  a  country’s  national 
capacity  for  choosing  the  most  effective  strategies  for 
sustainable  development,  or  create  new  dividing  lines 
or barriers. 
The work of the Council’s 2012 substantive session 
reaffirmed the efforts of Member States to continue to 
rely on the mechanisms of the United Nations in order 
to address pressing social and economic challenges. We 
welcome  the  new  forms  of  work  that  were  undertaken 
at  the  session.  Specifically,  we  note  the  dialogue  of 
member  States  with  the  management  of  the  primary 
operational  funds  and  programmes  on  the  issue  of 
preparing  for  a  quadrennial  review  of  the  operational 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  with  the  presidents 
of  the  regional  commissions  of  the  United  Nations  on 
programme activities, and on the holding of side events 
on issues that are important for member States. 
The holding of thematic events on medium-income 
countries  and  on  assistance  to  talented  youth  have 
given  additional  impetus  to  discussing  the  forms    of, 
and  prospects  for,  cooperation  in  those  areas  between 
the  members  and  the  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system. We support the continuing practice of holding 
high-level  meetings  of  the  Council  by  inviting  the 
leaders  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  World 
Trade  Organization  and  the  International  Labour 
Organization  on  the  most  pressing  problems  of  the 
global  economy  and  finances.  Accordingly,  we  expect 
that those discussions, taking place in the context of a 
high degree of global economic and ﬁ nancial instability, 
will be aimed at crystallizing practical steps to ensure 
sustainable economic development.
We look forward to the proposals of the Secretary-
General  on  strengthening  the  Council  and  improving 
its  working  methods  in  the  light  of  the  views  of  its 
Members.
We  call  on  all  interested  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  to  contribute  to  strengthening  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  cannot  allow  the 
reform  of  the  Council  to  be  turned  into  an  endless 
renovation that one can only suspend but never bring to 
a successful conclusion. Today’s realities leave no time 
for such an experiment. We all need a strong Economic 
and Social Council right now.
6 
12-56130
Ms. Prince (United States of America): The United 
States  values  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  an 
essential platform for exchanging ideas, learning from 
one  another’s  national  experiences  and  sharpening 
our  collective  thinking  about  a  next-generation  global 
development  agenda.  Strengthening  the  Council  has 
been  a  long-standing  item  on  our  shared  agenda. 
In  the  run-up  to  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we began a renewed 
conversation  about  our  multilateral  institutions  and 
how  we  can  better  adapt  them  to  meet  the  challenges 
and opportunities before us as a global community. 
The  global  development  landscape  is  changing 
dramatically.  New  drivers  of  wealth  coexist  with 
chronic impediments to prosperity. By 2030, the world 
population  will  grow  to  8.3  billion  people,  who  will 
rightly  have  rising  expectations  for  their  future  and 
who  will  make  increasing  demands  on  our  world’s 
resources.  A  growing  youth  demographic  will  coexist 
with the increasing age of most countries’ populations. 
Urbanization  will  accelerate,  and  new  technologies 
will continue to create opportunities for innovation and 
action. 
Our  international  architecture  for  development 
will  have  to  evolve  apace.  It  will  need  to  become 
more  responsive  to  twenty-first-century  development 
dynamics  and  what  drives  development  decisions 
and  outcomes,  including  by  better  mobilizing  and 
targeting existing multilateral expertise, resources and 
capacities. It will need to explore ways to reconcile the 
United Nations system’s diverse authorities with greater 
incentives  for  coherence.  It  will  also  need  renewed 
commitment  to  evidence-based  decision-making,  as 
well  as  monitoring  and  evaluation  that  are  responsive 
to the results that we are trying to achieve. Moreover, 
it  will  finally  need  a  degree  of  f lexibility,  especially 
because we are just at the beginning of our deliberations 
on elaborating a post-2015 development agenda. 
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  essential 
tools  and  should  be  a  central  venue  for  examining 
those issues. Its thematic breadth and responsibility for 
policy deliberation, coordination and oversight make it 
an important forum for a new approach that emphasizes 
convergence,  value  added  and  results.  For  example,  a 
key  issue  such  as  women’s  roles  and  sustainable  rural 
development  could  be  established  as  a  thread  that 
runs  through  all  parts  of  the  Council’s  system,  from 
the  spring  meetings  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions 
A/67/PV.28
to  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women  and  the 
Commission on Science and Technology. 
We  know  that  we  must  cooperate  in  new  ways 
that  span  the  existing  development  architecture  and 
bridge institutional barriers. That includes partnerships 
with  the  private  sector,  other  multilateral  entities  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  as  well  as  civil 
society and local actors. 
Overall,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its 
functional  commissions  and  other  subsidiary  bodies 
can  provide  a  practical  forum  for  integrated  policy 
debate  and  support.  That  will  require  strengthened 
working  methods,  more  responsive  agenda-setting 
and  a  commitment  to  ongoing  innovation.  The  high-
level  political  forum  agreed  at  Rio  can  also  build  on 
the  strengths  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
system.  Overall,  we  need  to  modernize  institutional 
arrangements  to  be  focused,  serious,  credible  and 
responsive to citizens and leaders alike. Above all, we 
need to deliver results to people around the world who 
rightly are demanding them. 
Finally,  the  United  States  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to express its appreciation for the granting 
of  the  United  Nations  Population  Award  earlier  this 
year  to  a  pioneering  advocate  for  reproductive  health, 
Ms.  Adrienne  Germain.  Ms.  Germain  has  been  in  the 
forefront  of  the  field  of  women’s  rights  and  family 
planning since the 1970s. She was a member of the United 
States  delegations  to  the  Fourth  World  Conference 
on  Women  in  Beijing  in  1995  and  the  International 
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo in 
1994, and has served as a civil society adviser in recent 
years  to  the  United  States  delegation  to  the  United 
Nations  Commission  on  Population  and  Development. 
She  is  well  known  to  our  Mission  and  others  in  New 
York, and we are gratified that the contributions of this 
prominent American in this important field have been 
acknowledged with this award.
Mr. O’Brien (India): I am privileged to address the 
General  Assembly.  I  bring  greetings  from  India.  We 
are  in  the  midst  of  our  biggest  festival  of  the  year  in 
Bengal, the state of India where I live, and on behalf of 
the  people  of  India  and  the  people  of  Bengal,  I  would 
like  to  wish  everyone  here  in  the  Hall  a  happy  and 
prosperous Durga Puja.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  in  June  this  year,  the  global 
community made a solemn promise to craft a future that 
12-56130
7
A/67/PV.28
would truly and really — and not just in some clichéd 
way — belong to all, to each one of us, to every child of 
Mother Earth. It was a promise to the marginalized to 
deliver a life of dignity, a life of hope. It was a pledge to 
fight poverty as the greatest global challenge.
With  just  three  years  to  go  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  finish  line,  where  do 
we  stand?  The  task  at  hand  remains  a  daunting  one. 
More  than  a  billion  people  in  developing  countries 
continue  to  live  in  extreme  poverty,  hunger  and 
hopeless desperation. We need to do much more. About 
the  MDGs,  we  can  take  some  comfort  in  collectively 
having made progress on poverty eradication, primary 
education,  gender  equality  and  sanitation.  However, 
when we introspect, our record on maternal mortality, 
infant  mortality  and  malnutrition  remains  a  matter  of 
deep and abiding concern. 
We will have a planet that is more populous in the 
twenty-first century than ever before in human history. 
Yet, are we doing enough to harness that demographic 
dividend?  In  India,  we  have  pursued  the  path  of 
inclusive  growth  for  achieving  poverty  eradication. 
We  have  in  fact  brought  down  poverty  numbers 
significantly as compared with the 1990 levels, but we 
continue  to  be  challenged  by  more  than  300  million 
people  living  below  the  poverty  line  of  $1.25  a  day. 
That  number,  300  million  people,  is  about  equivalent 
to  the  population  of  the  United  States,  which  should 
emphasize  the  enormity  of  the  crisis  and  the  moral 
obligation that still confronts us.
In  primary  education,  India  has  achieved  a  near 
100 per cent enrolment. In part, that has been a result of 
our Right to Education Act, which makes eight years of 
schooling a legal right that the Indian State must ensure 
to  every  citizen.  The  challenge  now  is  to  focus  on the 
quality of learning in our schools and to further narrow 
the  gender  gap  in  secondary  and  primary  schooling. 
Over the past decade, we have for the first time in our 
history  added  more  female  literates  than  males,  an 
achievement that we are justifiably proud of.
However,  India  is  conscious  of  the  health  and 
social development gaps that have yet to be addressed. 
Our  commitment  to  tackling  infant  and  maternal 
mortality  and  augmenting  women’s  empowerment 
remains  absolute  and  unf linching.  In  fact,  it  is  part 
of  our  nation-building  tradition.  As  Ishwar  Chandra 
Vidyasagar,  one  of  the  foremost  minds  of  nineteenth-
century  Bengal,  a  pioneer  of  modern  India  and  a 
champion  of  gender  rights,  female  emancipation  and 
girls’ education, wrote: 
“How  sad!  The  country  whose  male  population  is 
unkind, unreligious and unaware of the distinction 
between  the  good  and  the  evil,  and  does  not  care 
about  justice  and  fairness,  and  where  abiding  the 
rituals is the chief preoccupation of religion, should 
not give birth to girls!”
That  philosophy,  which  Vidyasagar  explained  in 
the 1850s, 150 years ago, anticipated the enlightenment 
of the MDGs. The MDGs represent the most cherished 
chapter  of  multilateralism.  At  Rio+20,  we  discussed 
practically every aspect of human endeavour and came 
up with a blueprint for action on sustainable development 
that rightfully integrates economic growth with social 
inclusion and environmental sustainability.
to  fashion 
As  we  sit  down 
the  sustainable 
development goals, we must do so with a clear idea that 
they would form the crux of the post-2015 development 
agenda.  Dealing  with  challenges  related  to  poverty, 
food,  energy  and  livelihood  issues  should  be  our 
priority.  The  MDG  framework  has  given  us  valuable 
lessons  as  to  what  works  and  what  does  not  work. 
There is little value in trying to reinvent the wheel. The 
framework  of  MDG  goals  should  be  replicated  in  the 
new set of goals.
Our  commitment  to  the  MDGs  and  to  Rio+20 
is  unwavering,  but  the  global  economic  situation 
does  not  seem  to  favour  us.  Slackened  growth,  high 
inf lation  —  particularly  food  inf lation  —  a  mounting 
debt  burden  and  high  youth  unemployment  are 
undercutting the development gains made in developing 
countries.  It  is  therefore  of  fundamental  importance 
that we, as a global community, be able to put the world 
economy  back  on  track.  Nothing  can  be  more  helpful 
as we do our best to put more resources into and bring 
greater focus onto our development goals.
We must also redouble our efforts to push for urgent 
progress on the Doha Development Round. Those who 
profess that more trade and not aid is the answer to the 
development  gaps  of  our  era  need  to  put  their  words 
into action. Shibboleths alone cannot do it. It is equally 
imperative  to  fashion  a  comprehensive  and  balanced 
outcome  to  climate-change  negotiations,  based  on  the 
principles  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibility 
and equity.
South-South  cooperation  must  also  contribute, 
and  it  must  be  allowed  to  grow  within  its  own  space 
8 
12-56130
A/67/PV.28
and  its  own  ecosystem  and  in  accordance  with  its 
own  principles.  It  cannot  and  must  not  be  a  substitute 
for  North-South  cooperation.  The  two  processes  are 
complementary and, as a world community, we have to 
avoid limiting ourselves to either-or choices.
An issue of crucial importance today for sustainable 
development is the deficit of global governance. Without 
addressing  the  issue  of  global  governance,  we  cannot 
restructure  the  twenty-first  century  comity  of  nations 
as an equitable matrix that serves the cause of all. The 
decisions of the self-selected few can hardly provide the 
solutions we seek for the many. It is crucial, therefore, 
that  developing  countries  be  given  due  voice  and 
participation  in  the  decision-making  structures  of  the 
global  economic  and  financial  institutions,  especially 
the Bretton Woods institutions. 
Here  at  the  United  Nations,  it  is  critical  that  we 
move  urgently  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
by  expanding  it  in  both  categories,  permanent  and 
non-permanent, to revitalize the General Assembly and 
strengthen the Economic and Social Council.
The  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  born 
out  of  the  Earth  Summit,  remains  a  seminal  global 
compact  on  development.  This  past  week  in  India,  we 
successfully concluded the Eleventh Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity.  We 
hope that its outcome will help us achieve our collective 
commitments. I wish to thank all participants for their 
support in making that event a success.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
In  the  developing  countries,  feeding  our  people 
and  providing  them  with  sustenance  is  a  challenge 
that  we  grapple  with  every  day.  We  are  hopeful  that 
our  biodiversity  resources  and  conservation  efforts 
will  help  us  find  new  solutions  to  food  security  and 
livelihood issues. 
Space  scientists  call  our  Earth  the  “Goldilocks 
planet” — not too hot, not too cold, just right for life. 
Indeed,  in  keeping  with  that  imagery,  humankind’s 
evolution  and  prodigious  attainments  over 
the 
millennia  that  have  passed  have  been  nothing  short 
of  a  fairy  tale  —  a  true  miracle.  True,  our  challenges 
are many, but given what we have achieved; given the 
diseases and scourges we have beaten back; and given 
the disasters and calamities we have learned to protect 
ourselves against, what we are left with is, frankly, only 
the last mile.
With our collaborative effort and collective will, we 
can do it. We can fashion a better world for ourselves, 
and  as  a  legacy  for  our  children  and  succeeding 
generations.  Acting  multilaterally,  though  institutions 
and agencies such as the United Nations, we represent 
hope for millions across the world. This is a hope that 
seeks  only  basic  necessities  of  life.  This  is  a  hope  we 
cannot betray.
As  the  great  Bengali  poet  Rabindranath  Tagore, 
the  first  Asian  to  win  the  Nobel  Prize  for  literature, 
eloquently put it: “I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I 
awoke and saw that life was service. I acted and behold, 
service was joy.” Let us, as a global community, awaken 
to service and to joy. 
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation is pleased to participate in discussing one of 
the most important items on the agenda of the General 
Assembly,  as  ref lected  in  the  report  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  (A/67/3).  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  commend  the  contents  of  the  report  on  the 
effective contributions and activities undertaken by the 
Economic and Social Council in the past session.
The suffocating financial crisis that the world has 
witnessed  in  recent  years  is  still  casting  its  shadow 
over  the  global  economy.  Abject  poverty,  increased 
unemployment and a host of other issues stand between 
many developing countries and their achievement of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  All  those  challenges 
make  us  more  determined  than  ever  to  support  the 
work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  develop 
its  mechanisms  and  improve  its  competence  as  the 
supreme international organ concerned with achieving 
socioeconomic development, supporting the welfare of 
peoples and raising their standards of living. Given the 
fundamental  role  that  the  Council  plays  in  fostering 
sustainable development, I would like to emphasize the 
importance  of  strengthening  the  partnership  between 
it and the other principal organs of the United Nations, 
particularly the General Assembly.
The 
international  community  currently  bears 
the  huge  responsibility  of  addressing  socioeconomic 
challenges.  It  is  therefore  important  to  emphasize  the 
need  to  translate  the  results  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
into  a 
tangible  reality,  especially  with  regard  to  sustainable 
development,  the  environment,  climate  change  and 
the  integration  of  economic  visions  in  a  manner  that 
will  help  United  States  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
12-56130
9
A/67/PV.28
Achieving 
social 
economic, 
three  pillars  of  sustainable 
the 
development  — 
and 
environmental  —  requires  our  countries  to  adopt 
comprehensive  national  policies  to  create  a  climate 
conducive  to  supporting  those  pillars  and  enacting 
appropriate  legislation  for  their  implementation.  That 
investment in our countries’ capabilities will enable us 
to  foster  common  international  economic  cooperation 
in confronting the challenges of our times.
The  State  of  Kuwait,  based  on  its  firm  belief  in 
the  concept  of  international  partnership,  is  helping 
developing  countries  to  overcome  the  obstacles  and 
difficulties  they  face  by  financing  economic  and 
development projects to improve their economies.
In  recognition  of  the  clear  underpinnings  of 
our  foreign  policy,  which  is  based  on  fostering  and 
strengthening relations among States in order to achieve 
an ideal model for international partnership, built upon 
mutual respect and common interests, the Kuwait Fund 
for  Arab  Economic  Development  has  provided  more 
than $18 billion in assistance over the past five decades 
in the form of grants, technical support and concessional 
loans to more than 100 developing and least developed 
countries to help them achieve sustainable development.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  continued  to  launch 
initiatives  calling  for  the  establishment  of  specialized 
funds  covering  different  parts  of  the  world  in  order 
to  address  economic,  educational,  environmental, 
health  and  development  issues.  It  also  contributes  to 
resolving  issues  of  unemployment,  food  security  and 
other  challenges  faced  by  the  peoples  of  developing 
countries. The latest such initiative was launched by His 
Highness  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah, 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  at  the  first  summit  of 
the  Asia  Cooperation  Dialogue,  hosted  by  the  State 
of  Kuwait  from  15  to  17  October,  to  establish  a  fund 
to  finance  development  projects  in  non-Arab  Asian 
countries with $2 billion in capital. His Highness also 
announced  that  Kuwait  will  contribute  $300  million 
to  help  the  least  developed  countries  in  Asia  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  addition,  His 
Highness  announced  Kuwait’s  readiness  to  join  the 
Asian  Development  Bank,  based  on  his  interest  in 
increasing Kuwait’s cooperation with Asian countries.
The  State  of  Kuwait  attaches  special  importance 
to  the  activities  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and commits itself fully to the Council’s decisions and 
policies,  and  to  those  of  its  subsidiary  committees,  to 
coordinate and strengthen economic cooperation with a 
view to advancing the development goals, in particular 
the  eradication  of  poverty,  combating  serious  and 
communicable  diseases,  and  achieving  sustainable 
development.  Furthermore,  the  State  of  Kuwait  has 
never  spared  any  effort  in  supporting  the  work  of 
international  and  regional  institutions  involved  in  the 
field  of  development  to  enable  them  to  carry  out  their 
functions by providing them with all kinds of ongoing 
assistance and support to help developing countries and 
the  least  developed  countries  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
Based  on  its  belief  in  the  important  role  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
presented its candidature for membership of the Council 
for  the  term  2013-2015.  The  election  is  to  be  held  on 
31 October. We hope to receive the support and backing 
of Member States in order to enable us to proceed with 
our  efforts  in  the  economic,  social  and  environmental 
fields  through  the  international  organ  responsible  for 
integrating and coordinating international activities in 
those fields.
Mr. Rahman (Bangladesh): Allow me to begin by 
thanking the Ambassador of Mexico, who in his capacity 
as  Vice-President  of  the  Council  presented  the  report 
of  the  Council  (A/67/3)  on  behalf  of  its  President.  We 
commend the work of the Council and the leadership of 
Ambassador Miloš Koterec in steering the proceedings 
of the Council during the reporting year.
Over  the  years,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
has played an important role in advancing a concerted 
approach to the global development agenda. It strives to 
promote an integrated and coordinated implementation 
of the commitments made in the major United Nations 
conferences and summits. The two innovative functions 
entrusted  to  that  body  —  namely,  the  holding  of  the 
annual ministerial review and the biennial Development 
Cooperation  Forum  —  are  considered  to  be  useful  in 
providing  substantive  inputs  and  thereby  contributing 
to a more effective follow-up. 
Through these mechanisms, the Council is able to 
assess national and international efforts to achieve the 
development goals. It is now possible for the Council to 
take a deeper look at all the cross-cutting areas of the 
outcomes of the major United Nations global events in 
economic and social areas. The focus of the most recent 
annual ministerial review — the eradication of poverty, 
which  is  one  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) — has indeed facilitated an in-depth analysis 
of  the  progress  made  and  remaining  challenges  in 
10 
12-56130
fighting that global scourge. It is timely as we approach 
the deadline for achieving the MDGs.
With all that good work being done, we still believe 
that  there  is  room  for  further  improvement  in  the 
functioning of the Economic and Social Council. We can 
and must work to make the Council the central United 
Nations  organ  for  the  coordination  and  supervision  of 
development  activities,  as  was  originally  envisaged 
by  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  subsequently 
strengthened  by  various  United  Nations  resolutions, 
particularly resolution 61/16. In that regard, the recently 
held  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  provided  considerable  inputs 
which can help bring about the necessary reform of that 
organ. 
The United Nations conferences and summits held 
since the 1990s have generated an extraordinary global 
awareness  of  the  need  to  pursue  sustained,  inclusive 
and  equitable  development.  It  is  a  widely  shared  view 
that full and effective implementation of the outcomes 
of  those  events  could  significantly  contribute  towards 
achieving the cherished objective of prosperity for all. 
As we engage in the annual review of the outcome 
and  implementation  of  major  global  conferences,  we 
need  to  take  stock  of  the  current  situation,  evaluate 
how much progress we have been able to achieve, and 
identify what more is required to implement them fully. 
While  there  has  been  progress  in  several  areas,  it  is 
clear that a lot remains to be achieved. Certainly, there 
is  a  need  for  resolute  action  to  move  the  development 
agenda  forward.  The  global  economic  uncertainties 
should  not  become  an  excuse  for  inaction.  The 
Economic and Social Council has an important role to 
play in that regard.
The  ongoing  global  economic  and  financial 
challenges pose serious impediments to peace, security 
and  development.  Unemployment,  volatile  food  and 
energy  prices  erode  the  policy  space  for  developing 
countries in advancing economic development efforts. 
That  has  further  undermined  the  limited  capacity  of 
the  poorer  countries  to  cope  with  external  shocks  and 
vulnerabilities. 
It  is  now  evident  that  many  developing  countries, 
particularly the least developed countries (LDCs), will 
not be able to meet MDG targets within the timeline. A 
key element for not being able to realize those minimum 
development  aspirations  is  the  gap  in  development 
financing.  Official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
A/67/PV.28
remains an important source of development financing 
for  the  developing  countries,  especially  for  the  LDCs. 
There  is  a  need  for  enhanced  and  predictable  official 
development  assistance,  aligned  with  the  priorities  of 
developing countries.
At  the  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development, held in Monterrey, the global community 
agreed that our collective goal was to eradicate poverty, 
achieve  sustained  economic  growth  and  promote 
sustainable  development.  The  commitment  made  in 
Monterrey and reiterated in Doha needs to be fulfilled 
urgently. The ODA commitment of 0.7 per cent of gross 
national  income  must  be  met  at  the  earliest  possible 
date.
It  is  important  that  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  look  into  the 
most  appropriate  modalities  for  follow-up  to  major 
conferences  and  summits,  with  a  view  to  promoting 
coherent,  coordinated  and  integrated  United  Nations 
actions in that regard. Poverty eradication must continue 
to  be  the  foremost  priority  of  the  post-2015  global 
development  agenda.  At  Rio+20,  it  was  unequivocally 
recognized  as  the  greatest  global  challenge.  Our  work 
on  the  quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review  and 
sustainable  development  goals  must  be  anchored  in 
those  imperatives.  We  should  attach  due  importance 
to  considering  such  issues  as  education,  health  care, 
employment  and  access  to  water  and  sanitation  while 
drafting  the  sustainable  development  goals  in  the 
coming  days.  In  fact,  all  the  unmet  MDGs  should  be 
subsumed  within  the  future  sustainable  development 
goals.
Climate change is having a serious impact on many 
countries  and  even  threatening  their  existence.  Its 
impact is undermining the development efforts of many 
countries. The United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  could  not  assure  us  of  robust  and 
immediate  actions  on  its  decisions,  including  in  the 
areas of adaptation and mitigation. It is high time that 
a  global,  comprehensive  and  ambitious  agreement  on 
climate change be reached, in line with and ref lecting 
the  Kyoto  Protocol.  The  agreement  should  include 
not  only  provisions  on  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, 
and  burden-sharing,  but  also  the  concerns  of  climate 
migrants,  the  transfer  of  green  technologies,  and 
provisions  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  among  others, 
for  adaptation  and  mitigation  purposes.  We  must 
12-56130
11
A/67/PV.28
also  push  for  an  early  implementation  of  the  Cancún 
Agreements.
We  all  know  that  international  trade  is  a  critical 
engine  of  development,  especially  for  developing 
countries that are dependent on exports. Undoubtedly, 
lack of market access, Aid for Trade and the absence of 
a  multilateral  rules-based  trading  system  continue  to 
deny a level playing field for all and to affect the trade 
prospects of developing countries. 
to  make 
trade 
address 
If  we  wish 
comprehensively 
truly  an  engine 
of  inclusive  growth,  it  is  essential  to  restart  the 
stalled  Doha  Development  Round  and  bring  it  to  a 
conclusion  at  the  earliest  possible  date.  The  Round 
must 
trade-distorting 
factors,  including  agricultural  subsidies  in  developed 
countries. Duty-free and quota-free market access and 
support  for  the  productive  capacity-building  of  LDCs 
should be pursued expeditiously and comprehensively. 
Developed  and  developing  countries  in  a  position  to 
do  so  must  provide  duty-free  and  quota-free  facilities 
to all products from all LDCs. This can and should be 
done  even  before  the  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round, 
under the “early harvest” measures of the World Trade 
Organization.
We  cannot  overemphasize  the  need  to  have  a 
coordinated, 
transparent 
follow-up to all these global aspirations, as ref lected in 
the outcomes of global conferences and summits.
inclusive,  equitable  and 
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): On behalf of my delegation, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  for  holding  this  joint 
debate.  I  also  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  documents  submitted  under  this  agenda  item 
(A/67/3, A/67/298 and A/67/82).
The  ongoing  global  financial  and  economic  crisis 
has reversed much of the world’s economic growth and 
badly affected much-needed development, particularly 
in the developing countries. This crisis has threatened 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) by 2015.
Against  this  backdrop,  at  the  national  level, 
Malaysia has adopted forward-looking macroeconomic 
policies  through  the  tenth  Malaysia  Plan,  aimed  at 
delivering  high  economic  growth  in  a  sustained, 
inclusive  and  equitable  manner  and  ensuring  that 
Malaysia  is  on  track  to  become  a  high-income  nation 
by 2020. At the global level, Malaysia will continue to 
share  its  knowledge  and  experience  in  economic  and 
social development with other countries, especially the 
least  developed  countries,  through  capacity-building 
initiatives conducted through the Malaysian Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  and  through  other  similar 
initiatives undertaken in conjunction with development 
partners, including the United Nations.
Malaysia 
in  advocating 
is  grateful  for  and  elated  by 
the 
selection  of  the  Federation  of  Reproductive  Health 
Associations  of  Malaysia  as  the  recipient  for  the  2012 
United  Nations  Population  Award  in  the  institutional 
category, in recognition of the Federation’s outstanding 
achievements 
reproductive  health 
and  advancing  the  health  and  status  of  women  and 
children  in  Malaysia.The  Federation  has  played  an 
important role in bringing visibility to family planning 
not  only  in  Malaysia  but  also  in  other  parts  of  Asia. 
It  has  also  demonstrated  a  high  level  of  commitment 
to  improving  the  lives  of  disadvantaged  communities, 
including  refugees,  sex  workers,  and  transsexual  and 
marginalized youth in juvenile homes and orphanages. 
Given these outstanding contributions, the recognition 
by the United Nations is very apt and timely.
Malaysia concurs with the two functions entrusted 
by  the  World  Summit  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  —  the  Annual  Ministerial  Review  and  the 
Biennial  Development  Cooperation  Forum  —  whose 
aim  is  to  ensure  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
development  agenda.  It  is  important  also  that  the 
Council  work  as  a  system  and  continue  to  adopt  the 
themes  of  reviews  well  in  advance  in  order  to  give 
the  various  actors  sufficient  time  to  contribute  to  its 
deliberations.
Looking ahead, Malaysia believes that the Council 
should  review  its  role  within  the  United  Nations 
system  in  the  integrated  follow-up  to  conferences  and 
the  modalities  for  actors  within  the  Organization  to 
contribute  to  such  follow-up.  To  promote  coherence, 
coordination  and  integration  of  the  United  Nations 
apparatus, the Council should also continue to look into 
the most appropriate modalities for follow-up to major 
conferences and summits.
The  deadline 
for  achieving 
the  Millennium 
Development Goal (MDG) targets is fast approaching. 
While some progress has been made, it is well known 
that many developing countries, in particular the least 
developed  countries,  are  still  far  from  achieving  their 
MDG  targets  by  2015.  The  challenges  we  face  today 
are different from those of some years ago. The current 
global landscape, financial and economic pressures and 
environmental  issues  are  hampering  countries’  efforts 
12 
12-56130
to  achieve  global  development  goals.  In  this  regard, 
we urge all countries to re-strategize and realign their 
approaches to economic and social development.
Malaysia  is  also  of  the  view  that  the  efforts  to 
eradicate extreme poverty should be complemented by 
efforts to provide better access to basic infrastructure, 
and  that  equal  priority  should  be  given  to  improving 
access to basic services. To this end, our partners from 
developed countries can continue to assist us in poverty 
eradication  in  the  developing  world  by  continuing 
to 
their  official  development  assistance 
commitments.  While  we  recognize  that  our  partners 
may  be  facing  economic  difficulties  at  home,  we  are 
confident  that  such  difficulties  will  not  prevent  them 
from  fulfilling  their  official  development  assistance 
commitments,  as  agreed  at  numerous  United  Nations 
conferences.
fulfil 
The  2010  MDG  review  shows  that  Malaysia 
has  attained,  or  is  on  track  to  attain,  the  MDGs  at 
aggregate  level  by  2015.  In  2009,  the  poverty  rate 
in  Malaysia  decreased  to  3.8  per  cent  and,  just  last 
year,  63,147  poor  households  were  elevated  under  the 
1AZAM  programme,  a  hardcore  poverty  eradication 
programme  of  the  Malaysian  Government.  In  order 
to  plan,  implement  and  monitor  poverty  eradication 
programmes,  Malaysia 
introduced  a  monitoring 
system,  called  e-Kasih,  in  November  2007.  E-Kasih 
was  awarded  first  prize  in  the  United  Nations  Public 
Service Awards for 2012, in recognition of its significant 
contribution  to  poverty  eradication.  The  e-Kasih  is  a 
database system created at the national level to collect 
data  on  poor  families  in  Malaysia;  it  ensures  the  fair 
distribution  of  assistance  and  avoids  overlap  between 
the aid programmes of multiple Government agencies.
The  progress  made  towards  achieving  the  MDGs 
has  encouraged  Malaysia  to  further  improve  other 
key  areas  of  development  in  rural  areas  through  the 
adoption  of  effective  policy  actions.  The  Government 
has  also  established  the  necessary  framework,  which 
comprises four main pillars as drivers of change. These 
pillars are the six national key result areas, as outlined 
in  the  Government  Transformation  Programme,  the 
12  national  key  economic  areas  of  the  Economic 
Transformation  Programme,  the  strategic  economic 
reforms  in  the  New  Economic  Model,  and  the  tenth 
Malaysia Plan. These four pillars, which put emphasis 
on  inclusiveness  and  sustainability,  are  intended  to 
be  the  basis  for  propelling  Malaysia  forward  towards 
becoming a high-income nation by 2020.
A/67/PV.28
in 
As  the  deadline  for  achieving  the  MDG  targets 
is  less  than  three  years  away,  Malaysia  would  like 
to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to  joining  the  rest  of  the 
international  community 
further  accelerating 
progress  towards  the  MDGs  by  2015  and  actively 
contributing to the United Nations development agenda 
beyond  2015,  including  the  fashioning  of  sustainable 
development  goals.  In  this  respect,  we  are  pleased  to 
note  that  Malaysia  has  become  an  increasingly  active 
international partner for development and will continue 
to share its knowledge and experience in economic and 
social development with other developing countries. As 
an active player in South-South cooperation, Malaysia 
has  offered  its  expertise  in  areas  of  capacity-building 
and  human-capital  development  to  fellow  developing 
countries,  mainly  through  the  Malaysian  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  Since 
the  Programme’s 
launch in 1980, more than 25,000 participants from 140 
countries have benefited from it.
I would like to conclude by reaffirming Malaysia’s 
commitment to implementing the outcomes of the major 
United  Nations  conferences  in  the  economic,  social 
and  related  fields  by  pursuing  a  development  policy 
framework  that  is  focused  on  high  growth  through 
sustained, inclusive and equitable economic, social and 
environmental  policies,  guided  by  the  principles  and 
objectives of sustainable development.
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  I  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  De  Alba, 
Vice-President of the Economic and Social Council, for 
presenting the Council’s report (A/67/3), and to express 
my gratitude to the Secretariat for having supported the 
work of the Council this year.
The Russian delegation has consistently advocated 
the  strengthening  of  the  Council’s  coordination  role 
within  the  United  Nations  development  system.  We 
view  the  Council  as  a  key  United  Nations  forum  for 
crafting  collective  approaches  to  pressing  social  and 
economic problems.
We  welcome 
the  convening  of 
the  special 
ministerial meeting of the Economic and Social Council 
on the issue of strengthening the multilateral system for 
sustainable  development  in  September.  The  outcome 
of  that  discussion  provided  a  firm  basis  for  holding  a 
second  round  of  consultations  on  reviewing  progress 
in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 
61/16  on  the  strengthening  of  the  Council  during  this 
session of the General Assembly.
12-56130
13
A/67/PV.28
In  our  view,  the  primary  task  of  that  review  is  to 
deﬁ ne the Council’s role in negotiating and implementing 
new priorities for the post-2015 socioeconomic agenda 
and  in  the  emerging  global  structure  for  international 
development  cooperation.  As  part  of  the  review,  we 
also  look  forward  to  in-depth  discussions  of  ways  to 
optimize the agenda and the programme of work of the 
Council’s substantive session. 
Further  work  on  reforming  the  socioeconomic 
sector  of  the  United  Nations  must  be  based  on 
the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex). 
We believe that the establishment of a high-level forum 
on  sustainable  development  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
process  of  strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and its subsidiary bodies.
the  outcome  of 
Overall,  we  commend 
the 
Council’s  substantive  session  this  year,  including  the 
Annual  Ministerial  Review  on  the  progress  towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals and the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum.  We  note  the  useful 
work  with  regard  to  coordinating  the  operational 
activities  and  humanitarian  affairs  segments  of  the 
session. That clearly reaffirms the Council’s important 
role  in  ensuring  system-wide  coherence  and  the 
required and effective implementation of the priorities 
on the global social and economic agenda. 
For  the  first  time  since  2006,  the  United  Nations 
platform was used for a comprehensive discussion under 
the  theme  of  all  aspects  of  employment.  The  political 
guidelines  for  United  Nations  work  in  that  area  were 
set out. Without infringing on the leading role and the 
prerogatives of the International Labour Organization, 
the Council was able to provide significant updates on 
the decent-work issues on the United Nations agenda.
The  ministerial  declaration,  based  on 
the 
outcomes  of  the  review,  has  become  a  firm  normative 
basis  for  strengthening  the  work  and  enhancing  the 
coherence  and  coordination  of  all  United  Nations 
structures  and  bodies.  Decisions  within  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  must  seek  to  further  enhance 
multilateral development cooperation and the effective 
implementation of the concept of decent work.
The  contributions  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  will  be  duly  taken  into  account  in  preparing 
for the International High-level Conference on Decent 
Work, to be held in Moscow in December. During the 
session,  the  Russian  representative  made  a  national 
voluntary  presentation  that  ref lected  the  national 
strategy  and  practical  measures  undertaken  by  our 
country to promote sustained and fair economic growth, 
to improve the social well-being of the population and 
to ensure further progress in achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals.
Allow  me  once  again  to  express  my  gratitude 
their  active  and  constructive 
to  delegations  for 
participation  in  discussing  the  report.  In  2012,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  reaffirmed  its  key  role 
in  the  process  of  intergovernmental  follow-up  to  the 
various  international  conferences  on  financing  for 
development.  We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  special 
high-level meeting of the Economic and Social Council 
with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade and Development. We also welcome the efforts of 
the President and the Bureau of the Council to establish 
informal  contacts,  in  particular  with  the  International 
Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
One of the Council’s priorities should be to continue 
expanding mutually beneficial cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  international  financial  and  trade 
institutions,  the  private  sector  and  non-governmental 
organizations  so  as  to  effectively  implement  the 
international development agenda.
The  Russian  Federation  is  ready  to  cooperate 
constructively  with  all  partners  in  order  to  further 
strengthen  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  given 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  economic 
governance. 
Mrs.  Martinic  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  De  Alba 
for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council (A/67/3).
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  central  role  in 
world governance so that the international community 
can  adequately  respond  to  the  many  and  increasing 
global challenges. Apart from the urgency of the topics 
addressed  by  the  Security  Council,  which  means  that 
its  decisions  always  seem  to  be  critical  and  to  appear 
on the front pages of the press, the daily challenges in 
relation  to  economic  and  social  development  that  are 
faced  by  most  of  the  world’s  population  are  equally 
pressing  or  more  so.  That  is  an  area  where  the  United 
Nations is not up to meeting the current challenge. That 
has become increasingly clear since the end of the Cold 
War.
14 
12-56130
Under  the  Charter,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, as a principal organ of the United Nations, has 
a prominent role in dealing with current challenges, such 
as promoting a transparent, fair and non-discriminatory 
international  economic  system 
that  brings  about 
development, social inclusion and economic growth, in 
particular in developing countries.
The  current  reality  is  that  the  Council  is  not  able 
to  meet  the  present  economic  and  social  challenges. 
We  must  find  a  way  to  make  it  more  effective  so  that 
it  can  contribute  decisively  to  the  promotion  of  the 
three pillars of sustainable development, namely, social 
development,  economic  growth  and  environmental 
protection.  To  that  end,  we  believe  that  the  Council’s 
agenda should be streamlined because it currently deals 
with  countless  reports  on  numerous  topics  without 
achieving the expected result. 
We  also  believe  that  the  Council  should  act  as  a 
sounding board for discussions taking place both in its 
subsidiary  bodies  and  in  ad  hoc  forums.  Above  all,  it 
should be able to take responsibility for the discussion 
of  the  main  topics  in  the  international  economic  and 
social field.
The Council should also undertake the appropriate 
follow-up to effectively implement the resolutions that 
it adopts. For example, this year, it adopted a resolution 
that  underscored  the  need  to  give  the  eradication  of 
poverty  the  highest  priority  in  the  United  Nations 
development  agenda  (E/RES/2012/12).  That  resolution 
must be fully implemented.
The Council should generate a vigorous debate on 
current  issues,  such  as  growth  with  social  inclusion, 
to  which  Argentina  attaches  the  greatest  importance. 
Through active State policies that focus on employment, 
social  inclusion  and  industrial  growth,  Argentina  has 
been  able  to  achieve  some  of  the  highest  growth  rates 
in the world, while creating jobs and reducing poverty 
levels.  The  investment  rate  reached  a  record  24.5  per 
cent of gross domestic product in 2011. We registered a 
dramatic fall in the unemployment rate from more than 
20 per cent in 2002 to 7.2 per cent in the second quarter 
of 2012.
The  Council  should  invite  relevant  international 
organizations,  such  as  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Trade and Development, to participate in discussions 
so  as  to  reach  solutions  to  specific  social  problems. 
As  the  Trade  and  Development  Report  2012  notes,  in 
order for growth and development to be inclusive, it is 
A/67/PV.28
necessary to take active employment and redistribution 
measures,  as  well  as  macroeconomic  policies  that 
promote productive investment and create decent jobs. 
A  better  distribution  of  income  increases  aggregate 
demand,  investment  and  growth,  which,  in  turn,  will 
accelerate job creation.
Emerging  economies  continue  to  foment  global 
growth.  It  is  sufficient  to  cite  the  forecasts  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  for  gross  domestic 
product  growth  for  2012  and  2013.  They  indicate  that 
emerging  and  developing  economies  are  proving  to 
be the engines of global growth, with a rate of 5.6 per 
cent  for  2012  and  5.9  per  cent  for  2013.  Meanwhile, 
the  developed  economies,  the  epicentre  of  the  global 
economic crisis, show a growth forecast of 1.4 per cent 
in 2012 and 1.9 per cent in 2013.
that 
However,  we  have  been  attacked  in  multilateral 
forums  by  some  who  seek  to  discourage  the  use  of 
public  policies  to  which  we  are  legally  entitled,  in  an 
attempt  to  limit  the  scope  of  our  legitimate  economic 
policy.  The  ultimate  goal  of  such  attacks  is  to  enable 
developed countries to dump their exportable surpluses 
on  our  domestic  markets,  through  constrictive  fiscal 
policies 
limit  global  aggregate  demand.  By 
contrast,  nothing  is  said  in  the  same  forums  about 
the  stimulus  packages  and  subsidies  that  the  most 
powerful  economies  continue  to  provide  for  their 
own  industrial  and  agricultural  sectors  and  that  have 
harmful repercussions for developing countries. To the 
formidable sums that in recent years, in response to the 
international crisis, have been expended on agricultural 
support for domestic producers, there have been added 
millions  in  fiscal  and  monetary  stimulus  packages, 
whose real overall distortive impact is immeasurable.
an 
efﬁ cient, 
and 
We  are  convinced  that  only  a  system  of  global 
inclusive, 
governance  based  on 
representative 
multilateral 
decision-making  system,  with  clear  and  fair  rules, 
can  provide  effective  solutions  to  global  problems. 
Prioritizing and strengthening the Economic and Social 
Council  could  be  a  step  in  that  direction.  That  will 
depend on the political will of its members.
transparent 
Ms. Morgan (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
first  express  our  gratitude  for  the  leadership  of  the 
President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  of 
the  representatives  of  Egypt,  Indonesia  and  Spain  in 
conducting the work of the Council in 2012.
12-56130
15
A/67/PV.28
A  coordinated  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  in  the  economic, 
social and related fields, as well as the formulation of a 
coherent, unified and universal post-2015 development 
agenda,  calls  for  an  Economic  and  Social  Council 
capable of responding to today’s challenges. We believe 
that  the  Council  is  the  natural  forum  for  a  global 
approach  to  addressing  development-related  issues. 
Nonetheless,  the  Council,  and  its  system  of  regional 
and  organic  committees,  must  regain  the  necessary 
effectiveness  and  capacity  to  be  able  to  define  and 
follow  up  on  a  development  agenda  and  to  involve 
the  relevant  stakeholders. What  is  needed  is  a  process 
of  thorough  institutional  reform  that  will  enable  the 
Council to comply fully with its mandate as laid down 
in  Chapter  X  of  the  Charter.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  discussion  that  was  initiated  during  the  special 
ministerial  meeting  of  the  Council  on  24  September, 
and  we  await  with  interest  the  report  requested  of  the 
Secretary-General, with proposals for reform.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  reaffirmed  the  mandate  of  the  Council 
as  one  of  the  principal  organs  charged  with  carrying 
out  the  integrated  and  coordinated  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social,  environmental  and 
related fields, and recognized its decisive contribution 
to  the  balanced  integration  of  the  three  dimensions  of 
sustainable development. A renewed and strengthened 
Council should be able to fulfil three specific functions: 
provide  leadership  and  integration  capacity;  promote 
coordination  and  follow-up  for  a  global  development 
agenda; and promote more effective systemic cohesion 
and coordination. We should also revive the Council’s 
former  dynamism,  which  could  be  imparted  to  it  by 
the discussion and formulation of recommendations on 
serious  and  important  topics  that  are  currently  facing 
the international community.
Reform should be based on the premise that, for the 
Council  to  be  effective,  it  needs  a  systemic  approach 
that  can  enable  it  to  retain  its  capacity  to  act  and 
respond  to  development’s  central  challenges  and  to 
ensure  that  each  of  its  instruments  gives  added  value. 
It  should  do  its  work  in  a  timely  fashion,  and  to  that 
end  should  revise  its  current  meeting  schedule  and 
end the practice of concentrating too much of its work 
into a single month of the year. It should also make use 
of  its  instruments  to  create  inclusive  spaces  that  can 
incorporate other actors. 
As 
for 
the  coordinating  entity 
funds  and 
programmes,  we  should  strengthen  the  Development 
Cooperation Forum as the central platform from which 
we  can  build  and  reinforce  interaction  between  the 
principal  stakeholders  in  international  cooperation, 
including  the  United  Nations  funds  and  programmes. 
We  also  believe  that,  with  a  view  to  the  future  post-
2015 development agenda, the Council must strengthen 
its  role  as  a  central  platform  for  monitoring  progress 
in  commitments  made  in  the  area  of  international 
development.  We  should  therefore  ensure  that  the 
annual  ministerial  review  has  a  solid  and  inclusive 
preparatory and follow-up process that is supported by 
the entire United Nations system.
The  reform  of  our  multilateral  development 
institutions  is  urgent.  We  should  integrate  the  various 
fragmented  efforts  surrounding  the  Organization’s 
development  agenda,  take  advantage  of  synergies  and 
avoid dissipating our already scant resources, working 
within a renewed strategic framework where every one 
of  our  actors  plays  its  assigned  role.  In  that  context, 
the mission of the Council should be to generate shared 
spaces where the relevant actors can make decisions.
Furthermore, 
the  United  Nations  should  not 
have  parallel  development  agendas.  We  require  an 
integrated agenda where, once and for all, development 
is  understood  to  be  a  single  whole  that  incorporates 
distinct  but  mutally  complementary  and  reinforcing 
pillars. We call on all Member States, without exception, 
to act and to cooperate with one another to improve the 
quality  of  life  of  their  citizens.  Finally,  with  respect 
to  the  development  agenda,  we  believe  that  the  high-
level  political  forum  established  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  not 
only  should  ensure  the  convergence  between  relevant 
actors at the global level but also should function as a 
bridge  between  the  Assembly  and  the  Council  within 
the United Nations.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  Mexico’s 
delegation, for his commitment to developing with the 
Economic and Social Council a series of processes that 
can  lead  the  United  Nations  to  renew  its  development 
agenda.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items. May I take it that 
the  General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  contained  in  document 
A/67/3?
16 
12-56130
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
items 9 and 14.
Agenda items 63 and 13 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/204)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/205)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The Acting President: Members will recall that the 
General Assembly considered, in a joint debate, agenda 
item 63 and its sub-items (a) and (b) and agenda item 13 
at its 25th and 26th plenary meetings, on 17 October.
Mr. Emvula (Namibia): Namibia aligns itself with 
the statement made by the representative of Cameroon 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see  A/67/
PV.25).  The  social  and  economic  development  of  the 
African  continent  remains  an  urgent  imperative.  In 
order  to  succeed,  we  must  redouble  our  collective 
efforts  to  improve  the  productive  capacity  of  our 
economies and equip our people, especially the youth, 
with  the  needed  skills  and  competencies.  We  should 
also  do  more  to  improve  access  to  public  services 
such as education, health care, housing, electricity and 
other  social  amenities.  In  that  regard,  we  join  others 
in  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
(A/67/204 and A/67/205).
Global  action  to  combat  malaria  has  reduced 
deaths by more than one third, saving 1.1 million lives 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa  over  the  past  decade.  Namibia 
has also made significant progress in the fight against 
malaria  in  the  past  10  years.  Although  Namibia  is  not 
yet malaria-free, the number of malaria cases recorded 
across  the  country  dropped  by  97  per  cent  between 
2001 and 2011.
A/67/PV.28
The  number  of  malaria  deaths  has  also  decreased 
from  1,747  in  2001,  to  a  mere  45  in  2010,  which  is  a 
mortality  reduction  of  98  per  cent.  The  decline  in  the 
number  of  malaria  cases  is  due  to  a  campaign  that 
includes the distribution of insecticide-treated mosquito 
nets and massive treatment efforts aimed at people who 
have contracted malaria. Namibia is on track to achieve 
malaria elimination by 2015.
African heads of State and Government adopted the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) at 
the summit in Lusaka, Zambia, in 2001. That decision 
was hailed in Africa and by the international community 
at large as a milestone and an important paradigm shift 
in  our  approach  to  economic  and  social  development. 
We  have  designed  NEPAD  as  a  development  plan  to 
free  our  continent  and  its  people  from  the  scourge  of 
poverty  and  underdevelopment.  It  is  a  vision  and  a 
programme  of  priority  actions  and  strategies  to  guide 
Africa’s way forward. Namibia believes that we need to 
do more to fulfil the goals we set for ourselves when we 
established NEPAD.
We  are  convinced  that  the  implementation  and 
political  championing  of  strategies  and  the  active 
promotion  of  Africa’s  regional  infrastructure  through 
the work of the Heads of State and Government in the 
High-level Subcommittee on Infrastructure will ensure 
the success of NEPAD and the African Union in their 
efforts  to  find  adequate  funding  for  the  projects  we 
have  identified  and  defined  in  accordance  with  our 
developmental needs.
for 
funding  projects 
In  conclusion,  let  me  underline  that  the  primary 
for  Africa’s 
responsibility 
development  lies  with  Africans.  Others  should  only 
complement  our  efforts.  I  therefore  wish  to  appeal  to 
all  of  the  international  community  to  demonstrate  the 
political  will  required  and  to  match  our  commitments 
with financial resources. Africa rose to the seemingly 
daunting challenge of defeating colonialism. Now is the 
time for us to rise to the challenge of Africa’s economic 
development  with  the  assistance  of  the  international 
community — led by the Office of the Special Adviser 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  Africa  —  and  with  equal 
determination and creative energy.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  thanks  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  two  reports  (A/67/204  and 
A/67/205)  on  the  item  under  discussion.  I  express  my 
delegation’s solidarity with the statements made at the 
12-56130
17
A/67/PV.28
25th  meeting  by  the  representative  of  Cameroon,  on 
behalf of the African States, and by the representative 
of Egypt, on behalf of the Group of Arab States. 
After  the  adoption  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  as  the  framework 
for  Africa’s  socioeconomic  development,  the  African 
countries have adopted political strategies and measures 
to  carry  out  NEPAD’s  sectoral  priorities,  with  the 
support of the international community.
African  countries  have  achieved 
remarkable 
progress  in  consolidating  democracy,  human  rights 
and  good  governance,  as  well  as  sound  economic 
management.  Yet,  there  have  been  noticeable  adverse 
repercussions  resulting  from  the  world  economic  and 
financial crisis, including price f luctuations in energy 
and  foodstuffs,  and  increased  challenges  owing  to 
climate  change,  including  drought,  soil  degradation, 
desertification  and  the  loss  of  biological  diversity. 
There  have  also  been  negative  impacts  on  the  fight 
against hunger and poverty and on the achievement of 
the internationally agreed development goals, including 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Given  that  the  African  continent  has  been  one  of 
the worst affected by the world economic and financial 
crisis and despite the return of growth internationally, 
Africa  remains  vulnerable  with  inconsistent  growth. 
It  is  therefore  necessary  to  foster  national  efforts  to 
achieve  food  security  in  Africa  through  increased 
allocations to agriculture and rural development in the 
budgets of the African countries and to ensure better and 
sounder  management.  In  that  regard,  the  international 
community must play a role in providing technological 
and financial support as well as modern agrarian skills 
to increase production and improve quality.
The fact that trade plays an important role in Africa 
in  promoting  economic  growth,  creating  employment 
opportunities, especially given the huge unemployment 
we  face,  and  achieving  the  MDGs,  there  is  an  urgent 
need  to  rectify  trade  practices  that  run  counter  to  the 
rules  of  the  World  Trade  Organization.  All  States, 
relevant  institutions  and  multilateral  entities  should 
align  their  policies  with  those  of  the  African  States 
and  provide  assistance  to  strengthen  trade,  aimed  at 
overcoming  the  existing  challenges  in  order  to  ensure 
that Africa is on track to achieve free and fair trade. 
Given  the  cardinal  role  of  official  development 
assistance in making progress on achieving sustainable 
development 
in  developing  countries,  developed 
countries  must  fulfil  the  commitments  made  in  the 
course  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
on  Africa.  That  requires  all  development  partners, 
in  particular  the  developed  countries,  to  back  the 
developing  African  countries  by  fostering  investment 
and  creating  policies  conducive  to  encouraging  local 
and  foreign  investment.  That  is  particularly  necessary 
as  desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought  have 
had  adverse  effects  on  African  efforts  to  achieve 
development.
To further regional efforts to address the problem, 
the  international  community  should  assist  Africa  in 
implementing the United Nations Convention to Combat 
Desertification 
in  Those  Countries  Experiencing 
Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in 
Africa. As a member of NEPAD, Libya will continue to 
actively  cooperate  with  African  States  to  advance  the 
NEPAD agenda for progress, growth and prosperity for 
African  countries,  through  joint  action,  coordination 
and compliance with cooperation agreements concluded 
with numerous African States in the past. We will strive 
thereby  for  the  MDGs  to  be  achieved  and  for  African 
countries to take their natural role in the international 
economic  system,  especially  since  they  possess  the 
valuable  human  and  natural  resources  necessary  for 
them to reach the goals they have set.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  49/2  of  19  October  1994,  I  now 
call on the observer for the International Federation of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Lobry-Boulanger  (International  Federation 
of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies  (IFRC)  supports  the  adoption  last  month  of 
resolution  66/289,  entitled  “Consolidating  gains  and 
accelerating efforts to control and eliminate malaria in 
developing countries, particularly in Africa, by 2015”. 
We  also  welcome  the  inclusion  of  malaria  among  the 
Secretary-General’s priorities for his second term.
We  have  collectively  made  significant  progress 
in  the  fight  against  malaria  over  the  past  10  years,  as 
highlighted  in  the  World  Health  Organization’s  2011 
World Malaria Report. We know that our success is the 
result of a significant scaling up of malaria prevention 
and  control  measures, 
the  widespread 
ownership  and 
increased  use  of  bednets,  better 
diagnostics  and  the  wider  availability  of  effective 
medicines to treat malaria.
including 
18 
12-56130
Despite  those  significant  results,  gains  remain 
inequitable. While some countries are moving towards 
the  elimination  of  malaria,  many  others  continue  to 
suffer  unacceptably  high  burdens  of  the  disease  and 
require  a  rapid  increase  in  prevention  and  control 
efforts.
We must not take recent hard-won advances in the 
global fight against malaria for granted. The gains made 
are fragile. Collectively, we must do more, do better and 
reach  further.  The  IFRC  calls  for  greater  recognition, 
support and investment in community-based solutions, 
including a focus on the most vulnerable, marginalized 
and  hard-to-reach  communities,  in  order  to  ensure 
equitable  access  to  malaria  prevention,  diagnosis  and 
treatment.  Malaria  is  first  managed  in  homes  and 
communities,  and  it  will  be  at  that  level  that  we  will 
continue  to  see  the  biggest  returns  on  investment  by 
empowering individuals to take informed action against 
the disease. 
The  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  national  societies 
and  their  community-based  volunteers  have  played 
a  crucial  role  in  our  global  success  to  date.  Those 
volunteers,  who  are  intimately  aware  of  local  barriers 
to health interventions, are working in communities to 
expand  the  reach  of  prevention  and  control  measures. 
Volunteers  go  door-to-door  to  ensure  installation  and 
proper  care  of  nets,  provide  information  on  how  to 
effectively prevent the disease, identify where to access 
diagnosis  and  treatment  and  promote  rapid  treatment-
seeking  behaviour  for  pregnant  women  and  children 
under 5 years of age in order to stop preventable malaria 
deaths.
New  technology  is  also  playing  a  role.  In  Haiti, 
for  example,  the  Red  Cross,  in  addition  to  targeted 
distributions  in  at-risk  communities,  is  using  mobile 
technology  to  put  life-saving  information  directly 
into the hands of people through a nationwide malaria 
prevention campaign that has included over 3.5 million 
SMS messages sent.
A/67/PV.28
The IFRC believes that malaria control and reaching 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  will 
depend  on  sustained  and  increased  funding  support, 
as  well  as  on  political  commitment.  For  instance,  just 
by  scaling  up  efforts  to  prevent  malaria,  including 
universal  coverage  with  mosquito  nets,  an  estimated 
3 million children’s lives will be saved by 2015. 
Sustaining malaria-control efforts is an investment 
in  development.  Early  and  continued  investment  in 
malaria  control  will  greatly  assist  malaria-endemic 
countries  along  the  path  to  achieving  the  MDGs, 
especially  those  relating  to  improving  child  survival 
and  maternal  health,  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and 
expanding  access  to  education.  Furthermore,  malaria 
funding can be used as a gateway for the integration of 
other key health services to address MDGs 4 and 5, thus 
offering  a  synergistic  solution  to  resource  constraints 
globally and within countries.
The power of partnership is one of the most important 
pieces in the fight against malaria. Malaria is the cause 
of  massive  human  suffering,  and  the  international 
community must play a greater role in supporting global 
partnerships  to  fight  malaria.  International  efforts 
to  scale  up  the  proven,  cost-effective  tools  available 
to  prevent  and  control  malaria  must  be  maintained. 
However,  in  order  to  avoid  the  pitfalls  experienced  in 
past  efforts  to  eradicate  malaria,  including  growing 
resistance  to  insecticide  and  drugs,  we  must  continue 
to  invest  in  research  and  develop  initiatives  to  stay 
ahead of the mosquito and the parasite. We cannot risk 
reversing today’s gains and losing countless more lives 
to a preventable and treatable disease.
The Acting President: I thank the observer for the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies.
We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on 
sub-items (a) and (b) of agenda item 63 and agenda item 
13.  The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of those agenda items.
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
12-56130
19
