United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
12th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 September 2012, 9 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.12
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 9.15 a.m.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, 
Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina
The President: The Assembly will hear an address 
by  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bakir  Izetbegović,  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Izetbegović:  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
President Jeremić on his election and to thank Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  having  successfully  presided 
over the General Assembly at its previous session.
I  also  wish  to  express  my  deepest  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for having visited my 
country this past July. As we are marking the twentieth 
anniversary of our admission to the United Nations, his 
visit came as a recognition of the fact that Bosnia and 
Herzegovina has travelled a long way since joining the 
Organization, having transformed itself from a recipient 
of security assistance into a contributor to global peace 
and security.
I also want to commend the Secretary-General for 
his tireless efforts to advance dialogue and cooperation, 
and  for  his  firm  commitment  to  the  core  values  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations.  We  in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  recognize  the  importance  of,  and  fully 
support,  his  action  agenda,  which  identified  five 
generational  imperatives:  prevention,  a  more  secure 
world,  helping  countries  in  transition,  empowering 
women and youth, and sustainable development.
Today’s world is the scene of unfolding crises and 
mounting global challenges. The first and foremost of 
these  is  the  disaster  in  Syria.  As  we  stand  here,  our 
fellow  Syrians  are  fighting  against  a  brutal  regime. 
They are fighting to take their destiny into their own 
hands.  The  regime  of  Bashar  Al-Assad  is  answering 
their  yearning  for  freedom  and  democracy  with  guns 
and bombs, just as his father’s regime did 30 years ago. 
That is revolting and morally reprehensible — but so is 
our collective failure to stop it.
Once again, we are idly standing by while a human 
tragedy of dramatic proportions is unfolding before our 
eyes. We should do our part to help the Syrian people’s 
historic  stand  for  freedom.  We  should  do  our  part  to 
save the people of Syria from tyranny. We should, but 
we are not.
The  images  coming  from  Syria  remind  us  of  the 
tragedy of Bosnia. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina feel 
the  pain  of  the  Syrian  people  as  our  own  because  we 
went through the same horrors not that long ago. When 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  visited  Srebrenica 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52337 (E)
*1252337*
A/67/PV.12
with  me  this  July  to  pay  his  respects  to  the  genocide 
victims, he said:

“The  international  community  must  be  united 
not  to  see  any  further  bloodshed  in  Syria  because 
I do not want to see any of my successors, after 20 
years, visiting Syria, apologizing for what we could 
have done to protect the civilians in Syria — which 
we are not doing now”.
His  predecessor,  Kofi  Annan,  stated  in  the  report 
on the fall of Srebrenica:
“Through  error,  misjudgment  and  an  inability 

to  recognize  the  scope  of  the  evil  confronting  us, 
we failed to do our part to help save the people of 
Srebrenica ... The tragedy of Srebrenica will haunt 
our history forever” (A/54/549, para. 503) 
Today, those words about the Organization’s failure to 
respond to the tragedy in Syria ring true.
The best way to honour the victims of the Srebrenica 
genocide  would  have  been  to  learn  the  lessons  of  that 
failure and never commit the same errors again. Sadly, 
the  United  Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council, 
has failed to do that. The international community has 
chosen  yet  again  to  repeat  the  trial-and-error  pattern 
of  the  policies  that  failed  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. 
The  resolutions,  statements  of  concern,  ineffective 
sanctions,  observers,  and  missions  with  no  mandate 
to  protect  civilians  are  actions  that  have  deadly 
consequences, as demonstrated in my country.
Make  no  mistake.  Unless  we  act  now,  and  act 
decisively, to help the people of Syria and put an end to 
the bloodshed there, that tragedy will haunt our history 
forever, just like Srebrenica.
Developments  at  the beginning  of  the  twenty-first 
century  defy  rational  prediction.  Indeed,  who  could 
have  predicted  such  an  explosion  of  freedom  in  the 
Middle East? In the last few years, we have witnessed a 
historic awakening in the Arab world. Profound social 
and  political  changes  aimed  at  creating  democratic 
societies are under way now — changes that have been 
fermenting for decades. They are the best confirmation 
that  Muslims  strive  vigorously  for  freedom,  dignity 
and  human  rights.  A  well-educated,  free-thinking 
generation  of  young  Arabs  has  finally  broken  the 
chains  of  dictatorship.  No  force  can  prevent  that  new 
generation from taking charge of its destiny.
As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  strongly  supported 
the  Arab  peoples’  aspirations  for  greater  freedom  and 
democracy.  We  acted  to  ensure  that  the  international 
community supported those who wanted free societies 
instead  of  closed  ones,  the  rule  of  law  instead  of 
the  rule  of  one  individual,  democracy  instead  of 
dictatorship, justice and fairness instead of oppression 
and corruption.
The  stalemate  in  resolving  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conf lict is also deeply troubling. The peace process is 
not moving forward, and the chain of violence has not 
been broken. A new impetus to negotiations is urgently 
needed, because there is no alternative to a negotiated 
solution. The Palestinians have every right — historical, 
moral and legal — to a State of their own, but Israel has 
every right to its security. The occupation of Palestinian 
territories must end, but so must the terror and violence. 
All attempts to create new realities on the ground in the 
hope  that  they  will  be  accepted  as  a  starting  point  for 
future negotiations must be rejected. The continuation 
of  settlement  activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  continues  to  pose  the  most  serious  obstacle 
to  peace.  Israel  should  immediately  end  all  settlement 
activities 
territories, 
because  those  activities  are  illegal  under  international 
law. Doing so is in Israel’s own best interest if it truly 
desires peace with the Palestinians.
the  occupied  Palestinian 
in 
The state of affairs of 60 or 6,000 years ago is not 
the right point of reference. The right point of reference 
for a solution is the principle of the peaceful coexistence 
of two sovereign States — an independent Palestine and 
a  secure  Israel.  That  is  the  only  realistic  way  to  bring 
about  a  just  resolution  to  the  conf lict  and  to  ensure 
stability  and  progress  in  the  Middle  East.  To  achieve 
such  a  solution,  a  more  sincere  attempt  at  good-faith 
negotiations is needed, especially on the part of Israel. 
The  road  to  peace  does  not  include  ignoring  United 
Nations  resolutions,  squeezing  the  Palestinians  onto 
bits  and  pieces  of  the  land  that  once  belonged  to  their 
fathers,  and  building  settlements  on  those  remaining 
bits of land.
The  Organization  needs  to  send  a  strong  message 
demanding  that  its  resolutions  be  respected  and  that 
there  be  no  double  standards  or  chosen  peoples  when 
it comes to the application of international legal norms 
and human rights principles.
2 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
Over  the  past  few  weeks,  we  have  witnessed 
disturbing  violence  linked  to  intolerance.  The  video 
that sparked those developments is deeply insulting. It 
deserves the strongest condemnation, and we absolutely 
reject its content and message. There is no justification, 
however,  for  responding  to  that  movie  with  violence. 
Violence in response to speech is unacceptable. There 
can  be  no  debate  about  that.  Violence  is  no  way  to 
honour  religion.  Responding  to  bigotry  with  violence 
only  further  fans  the  f lames  of  intolerance.  We  must 
draw the line at violence, but we must also find a way to 
prevent hate speech and bigotry. Yes, there is the right 
to free speech, but there is also the right to dignity.
We cannot impose our ideology or our religion on 
anyone  else.  We  must  promote  tolerance,  but  we  must 
also promote mutual respect. That is why, as responsible 
leaders, we should have a frank debate about the outer 
limits  of  free  expression  when  that  freedom  is  abused 
to  incite  hate  and  deliberately  slander  the  dignity  of 
others.
There is no inherent contradiction between Islamic 
and Western  values.  On  the  contrary,  those  values  are 
compatible.  After  all,  they  are  derived  from  the  same 
sources.  Throughout  history,  interactions  between 
those  values  have  led  to  tremendous  achievements. 
There need be no clash. There are only those who need 
to create a false perception of a clash in order to come 
to power or maintain their hold on it.
So many societies in today’s world are in transition, 
yearning  to  find  a  balance  between  traditional  and 
modern values. The relationship between the West and 
the  Islamic  world  and  between  their  respective  value 
systems  is  going  to  be  one  of  the  most  critical  issues 
of  our  time.  That  relationship  will  go  through  crises 
and  periods  of  misunderstanding  and  intolerance.  In 
the modern age, we need to continue to seek a formula, 
which  is  to  say  a  model,  for  how  to  reconcile  Islamic 
and Western values, East and West. No matter how hard 
it may be, finding that formula is going to be essential 
in the time ahead of us.
benefit  from  the  lessons  that  my  country  has  learned 
from  constantly  seeking  to  improve  its  understanding 
and  management  of  diversity.  For  hundreds  of  years, 
its citizens lived in harmony, helping each other build 
houses  of  worship  that  are  physically  almost  leaning 
on  each  other.  The  westernmost  range  of  Orthodox 
Christianity  and  Islam,  the  easternmost  range  of 
Catholicism, Bosnia is a meeting point of civilizations, 
a bridge between East and West. Its unique multi-ethnic 
culture  has  been  woven  through  a  thousand  years  of 
tolerance and respect among its citizens, regardless of 
their  ethnic  and  religious  affiliation.  That  is  why  its 
preservation  and  success,  as  a  specific  microcosm,  is 
crucial for the whole world.
However, owing to our recent past, a great struggle 
is  now  under  way  in  my  country  between  the  idea  of 
coexistence and the idea of division. I believe that the 
outcome of that struggle will have a significant bearing 
on  resolving  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  of  our 
time, that of conf lict versus cooperation. If the idea of 
coexistence and cooperation does not prevail in Bosnia, 
it can hardly prevail anywhere else in the world. If the 
unique social fabric of my country, which was torn by 
crimes  and  force,  is  not  restored,  that  will  be  a  defeat 
for the very idea of coexistence, which will produce a 
widening gap at one of the most delicate fault lines of 
the world.
The growing power of humankind brings progress 
and  prosperity.  Yet  the  selfish  side  of  that  power  cuts 
into  the  very  substance  on  which  our  future  depends, 
namely, our physical habitat and our spiritual essence.
The  world  we  live  in  is  changing  at  a  speed  and 
in  a  direction  that  is  rightfully  worrisome.  Inequality, 
injustice and intolerance are on the rise. There is more 
conf lict  and  less  cooperation.  There  is  ever  more 
violence  and  ever  less  compassion,  solidarity,  mutual 
care,  healthy  interpersonal  relations  and  family  life. 
People around the world are taking to the streets, which 
is a dramatic warning that there is less and less fairness 
in the societies in which they live. 
The human condition is one of diversity. Our human 
race is a mosaic composed of a rich variety of peoples, 
cultures and religions that shine together in a dynamic, 
sparkling pattern. Our responsibility is to nurture and 
protect that mosaic.
Those  unsettling  trends  can  be  reversed  only  by 
decisive  and  coordinated  global  action.  The  future  we 
desire  will  not  be  just  a  utopia  if  we  join  our  forces 
to find the right solutions. Cooperative approaches are 
difficult to accomplish but are needed more than ever.
I come from a country whose historical experience 
can offer valuable lessons in finding a model for peaceful 
coexistence within such diversity. The whole world can 
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
12-52337
3
A/67/PV.12
We  are  not  perfect,  and  we  can  be  better.  We  can 
be wiser, more responsible, more willing to learn from 
our  past  mistakes.  Too  often  we  have  been  prisoners 
of  our  own  mentalities.  We  perceive  willingness  to 
compromise  as  a  weakness,  but  just  the  opposite  is 
true — compromise requires courage. To build a future 
we  must  make  compromises.  To  succeed  we  must 
stop indulging in manipulative kinds of populism. We 
must  break  out  of  the  worn  and  frayed  patterns  of  the 
past.  We  must  turn  to  the  future.  Instead  of  having 
endless  debates  about  what  has  been,  we  must  devote 
ourselves  to  reaching  agreements  about  what  can  be. 
We must more correctly interpret the interests of those 
we represent. We must listen to the views of others, no 
matter  how  different  those  views  might  be.  We  must 
understand  each  other  better  and  respect  each  other 
more.
Our  most  important  mission  in  the  time  to  come 
will be to build bridges between cultures, religions and 
civilizations  —  bridges  of  trust,  understanding  and 
respect, bridges to reach out to problems the true nature 
of which we have only begun to understand. That is hard 
work that requires daring leadership. The Organization 
has undergone difficult trials, but it has always been the 
best framework for building those bridges. Let us keep 
it that way as we go forward.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President 
of Mongolia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Mongolia. 
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia, 
President of Mongolia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Tsakhia: Last year, Mongolia observed 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  joining  this  important 
body. Thanks to the choice of our free people, this son 
of a herder is here today, happy to report on Mongolia’s 
progress in building a strong and free society.
More  than  20  years  ago,  Mongolia  stood  at  a 
crossroads. The f lag of democracy was firmly planted 
in our rich and historic soil when, in the cold winter of 
1989 and in the spring of the White Horse Year of 1990, 
decades of rule without the consent of the governed were 
swept  aside.  Individual  rights  and  liberties  prevailed. 
Our revolution did not break a single window, and not 
one drop of blood was shed. 
More  than  two  decades  later,  Mongolia  is  a  stable 
beacon  of  self-governance,  a  moving  force  behind  the 
Asian  Partnership  Initiative  for  Democracy  and  the 
current  President  of  the  Community  of  Democracies. 
We are proud to chair that world movement for freedom.
Mongolia  has  demonstrated  a  firm  commitment 
to  transparency,  accountability  and  the  rule  of  law. 
We  have  recognized  that  that  is  the  only  way  that  our 
democracy can succeed. Therefore, we cannot tolerate 
public corruption at any level, from the highest officials 
to the ordinary citizen. Corruption is like an infectious 
disease, growing in the dark, eating away at the public 
trust, scaring away investors, robbing average citizens 
of opportunities and attacking the vital immune system 
of  a  nation.  We  must  shine  a  light  on  corruption  and 
attack it head-on.
Additionally,  our  track  record  of  free  and  fair 
elections  and  the  peaceful  transfer  of  power  from  one 
party  to  another  can  serve  as  an  example  to  our  sister 
democracies  around  the  world.  Mongolia  is  moving 
towards  more  direct  and  participatory  democracy. 
We  are  empowering  our  people,  not  the  Government. 
Mongolia  is  proud  to  be  the  democratic  anchor  in  the 
East.
No democracy is ever perfect. We have experienced 
challenges similar to those experienced by other young 
democracies. Democracy does not end with the casting 
of a ballot. That is just the beginning.
Mongolia  is  uniquely  situated  on  many  levels, 
democratically,  economically  and  geographically.  Our 
drive  for  democracy,  transparency  and  hope  for  peace 
makes our nation a vital regional player.
Economically,  we  are  blessed  by  extraordinary 
growth — nearly 17 per cent last year. Keeping up with 
our  high  rate  of  growth  is  a  very  real  challenge  and 
one that we are prepared to meet directly. We are very 
4 
12-52337
focused  on  balancing  two  goals  —  first,  sharing  the 
opportunities created by our economic success with all 
Mongolians,  and  secondly,  demonstrating  clearly  and 
firmly  that  Mongolia  is  open  for  business  and  a  fully 
engaged member of the international community.
Our  nation’s  needs  are  significant  —  improved 
infrastructure,  better  health  care  and  world-class 
education. We have much to do to meet the immediate 
and  long-term  needs  of  our  people.  Our  people  are 
the  key  to  our  success.  We  need  to  invest  in  their 
future. We need to invest in both social and economic 
infrastructure.  We  are  committed  to  making  the 
investments  needed  to  give  our  children  the  bright 
futures they deserve.
is  more 
important 
As  an  emerging  leader  of  the  global  community, 
Mongolia  also  has  important  international  priorities. 
None 
than  protecting  our 
environment.  All  nations  must  work  to  preserve  our 
planet  as  our  economies  expand  and  mature.  I  was 
honoured and humbled to be recognized by the United 
Nations  Environmental  Programme  this  year  for  the 
work we are doing in Mongolia to preserve our precious 
environment. We are committed to doing even more.
Another  priority  for  Mongolia 
is  expanding 
human  rights.  Mongolia  has  established  an  effective 
moratorium  on  capital  punishment.  We  are  seeking  to 
permanently abolish the death penalty in Mongolia by 
legislative  action  very  soon.  A  Government  is  created 
by  its  people;  therefore  no  Government  has  the  right 
to take the life of those who have created it. Let me be 
clear: capital punishment is ineffective and barbaric.
Mongolia  cares  deeply  about  safeguarding  global 
peace.  We  must  preserve  our  planet  by  eliminating 
nuclear  weapons  across  the  world.  We  are  also  firmly 
opposed  to  storing  nuclear  waste  on  Mongolian  soil. 
We  are  celebrating  20  years  of  enjoying  nuclear-
weapon-free status. I am grateful that on 17 September, 
the 
the  Security 
Council  —  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  France, 
the  Russian  Federation,  the  United  Kingdom  and  the 
United States — signed a joint declaration reaffirming 
that status for Mongolia.
five  permanent  members  of 
The  dialogue  on  Mongolia  and 
its  nuclear-
weapon-free zone, which was initiated and has been led 
by Mongolia, has continued to make progress. We will 
host  an  event  in  2015  to  make  even  further  progress. 
While  nuclear  power  may  remain  a  viable  energy 
option  for  some,  any  nuclear  energy  programme  in 
A/67/PV.12
development must submit to the permanent supervision 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  Any  nation  seeking  to  build  nuclear 
power  must  not  endanger  the  peace  and  security  of 
its  independent  neighbours.  The  solution  to  those 
challenges is engagement, not isolation. The solution is 
more diplomacy, more dialogue and more action.
Now  more  than  ever,  it  is  clear  that  words  alone 
are not enough. We must be united in taking action to 
preserve  peace.  That  goal  is  even  more  imperative  in 
light  of  the  conf licts  that  have  grown  ever  more  tense 
in areas such as the Middle East. I was saddened by the 
death  of  the  United  States  Ambassador  and  others  in 
Libya.  The  mission  of  diplomacy  is  peaceful.  Attacks 
on  diplomatic  compounds  violate  both  the  letter  and 
spirit of international law. 
Today, I join with Mongolia’s allies in condemning 
the needless violence and bloodshed in Syria. Last year 
I urged action. The protest had started peacefully, but 
was  met  with  violence  from  the  Syrian  Government. 
Each  day,  each  hour  and,  indeed,  each  minute,  the 
situation  grows  worse.  In  dealing  with  crises  such  as 
that  in  Syria,  we  must  remember  that  those  dying  are 
not  just  citizens  of  that  nation.  They  are  also  citizens 
of  our  planet.  They  are  therefore  also  our  brothers 
and  sisters.  The  world  should  be  unified  and  direct  in 
bringing the bloodshed to an end before another life is 
needlessly lost.
Young girls and boys should be in school, studying 
for their future, building their dreams. Young girls and 
boys, as well as their mothers and fathers, should not be 
dying in the streets and living through nightmares. That 
crisis  is  not  just  a  subject  for  television  programmes. 
We Members of the United Nations are not spectators. 
The  Organization  was  not  created  merely  to  watch  a 
show unfold on our televisions. We have to act. We have 
to move.
Too  many  mothers  suffer  when  their  children 
struggle,  whether  it  is  for  a  lack  of  human  rights  or 
economic  opportunity.  Mothers  want  their  children  to 
be  free.  They  want  their  children  to  have  a  job.  They 
want  a  better  life  for  their  children.  My  92-year-old-
mother  reminds  me  daily  to  serve  all  people  with 
respect,  especially  women,  children  and  the  elderly. 
Women are the backbone of the family and the bedrock 
of a nation. They bring life into the world. They sense 
the cries of an infant. Their instincts are to care for the 
12-52337
5
A/67/PV.12
old, the sick and those in need. Our mothers, sisters and 
daughters share a core value of caring for others.
We need more women leaders. Women tend to see 
the whole picture. For society to advance, we need more 
women  in  public  service  at  all  levels,  local  to  global. 
They  bring  a  unique  perspective  that  is  often  missing 
in global challenges. Has anyone ever heard of a female 
bloody dictator or tyrant? I think not. If there were more 
women in power, I think we would have more harmony, 
more engagement, less suffering and less conf lict. I am 
proud to report that in our last elections, we tripled the 
number of women in Parliament. 
The way to empower women is to ensure that girls 
share  the  same  educational  opportunities  as  boys. 
Education  is  the  most  basic  human  right.  It  is  the 
fundamental building block for human development and 
free society. We owe our children — all of them — the 
opportunities that a strong education can offer. Instead 
of weapons, we should invest more in education, which 
unlocks  the  potential  of  every  child.  The  return  on 
such investment will be higher, both for the young men 
and  women  of  tomorrow  and  for  the  world.  Educated 
nations  are  more  secure  economically,  respect  human 
rights and have greater political freedom.
In  conclusion,  I  am  happy  to  report  Mongolia’s 
incredible  forward  movement  and 
to  renew  our 
commitment as a part of the community of nations. We 
accept  both  the  rights  and  responsibilities  that  come 
with that honour.
Eight hundred and fifty years ago, our great king, 
Chinggis  Khan,  was  born.  He  built  the  largest  land 
empire in the history of the world. Yet that great king 
did not erect a single statute to himself. Chinggis Khan 
famously noted, “It was easier to conquer the world on 
horseback than to dismount and try to govern.” Let us 
be  frank.  It  is  not  easy  to  be  a  diplomat  in  a  troubled 
world.  It  is  not  easy  to  fight  for  equal  opportunity  for 
all. It is not easy to shine a light on corruption. It is not 
easy to govern by the rule of law. It is not easy to build 
real democracy.
It  is  easier  to  build  statues.  It  is  easier  to  destroy. 
It is hard to govern well. But we all must dismount and 
govern, and govern well. That is vital in order to build 
a  world  where  our  children  feel  safer,  a  world  where 
our families are stronger, a world where all nations can 
prosper.
That is the legacy that real leaders need to build — not 
statues,  but  opportunities  for  all  humankind.  Let  us, 
together, build opportunities for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Mongolia for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Moncef Marzouki, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Tunisia.
Mr. Moncef Marzouki, President of the Republic of 
Tunisia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Moncef  Marzouki, 
President of the Republic of Tunisia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Marzouki (spoke in Arabic): I should like 
to start by conveying to the friendly Republic of Serbia 
and  to  President  Jeremić  personally  my  most  heartfelt 
congratulations  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I 
should  like  also  to  congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  previous 
session, as well as Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the efforts that 
they have undertaken in favour of all peoples’ aspirations 
that  are  aimed  at  achieving  stability,  peace,  security 
and development throughout the world. I should like to 
convey to them the congratulations of my people, who, 
through  the  revolution  of  17  December  2010,  entered 
the fraternity of free people and democratic States.
I  should  now  like  to  express  our  views  regarding 
the major issues facing our world today.
Today we are witnessing the great evil perpetrated 
by a few groups that are using the media to disseminate 
their destructive and chaotic views. That makes clear the 
great chasm that exists with respect to the psychological, 
social  and  economic  crises  of  our  societies,  which, 
unfortunately,  exacerbate  the  phenomena  of  violence 
and  extremism.  Those  warning  signals  need  to  be 
addressed  very  seriously.  The  First  and  Second  World 
6 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
Wars did not happen in a vacuum; they were the result 
of extremist statements and policies that led to human 
carnage and claimed tens of millions of lives. 
We in Tunisia believe that we must work under the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  to  bring  about  peace 
for all humankind and to avert confrontations between 
civilizations. Tunisia’s access to this forum of free and 
democratic  peoples  came  at  a  very  high  cost.  Tens  of 
thousands of political prisoners, as well as exiles, were 
tortured before the revolution; they were the ones who 
paid  the  price.  During  the  revolution,  more  than  300 
citizens were killed and 2,000 others injured. 
A  year  and  a  half  after  the  revolution,  Tunisia 
continues to move forward. We are, however, faced by 
a  great  many  difficult  economic  and  social  problems, 
the  legacy  of  a  regime  that  lasted  for  more  than  two 
decades  and  whose  practices  included  corruption, 
fraud and repression. But that price is negligible when 
compared  with  that  paid  by  our  brothers  in  Egypt, 
Yemen  and  Libya,  and,  of  course,  by  our  brothers  in 
Syria, more than 25,000 of whom have been killed and 
tens  of  thousands  injured,  along  with  the  destruction 
of the country’s infrastructure. All of that will forever 
mark  the  Syrian  people  and  affect  their  future  for 
decades to come. 
That  high  price  is  something  we  all  should 
remember  in  facing  the  difficulties  that  hamper  us  in 
the  building  of  an  international  system  that  will  work 
to avert, lay siege to and curtail those accursed political 
systems that threaten the freedom of peoples and peace 
among peoples. The Republic of Tunisia, which has just 
emerged from dictatorship and which is well aware of 
the high toll taken by such a regime, proposes that we 
create  a  new  mechanism  to  fight  dictatorships,  which 
are  a  disease  threatening  peace,  stability  and  security 
as well as the prosperity of peoples. They not only have 
an impact on the freedom of people in a given country, 
but they also give rise to hatred and wars.
Europe  was  able  to  enjoy  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity  only  after  the  fall  of  the  fascist,  Nazi  and 
Communist dictatorships. In the medical field, methods 
were developed by the World Health Organization that 
made possible the elimination of polio in the twentieth 
century; that would have seemed pure fiction to doctors 
in  the  nineteenth  century.  We  have  acquired  political 
maturity  and  awareness  in  the  face  of  dictatorship, 
which, more than diseases, poses a serious threat to the 
lives of hundreds of millions of people.
Because  the  United  Nations,  through  its  Charter 
and institutions, has at its disposal a legal arsenal that 
can  serve  to  bring  about  basic  freedoms  and  peace 
among  peoples,  we  invite  the  Organization  to  declare 
that  dictatorship  is  a  social  and  political  scourge  that 
must  be  eliminated  through  the  combined  efforts 
of  all  peoples  throughout  the  world.  It  behoves  us 
to  implement  a  bold  and  ambitious  programme  to 
eliminate dictatorship in the same manner in which we 
got rid of polio and smallpox. 
The  creation  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) demonstrates that we are on a historic journey of 
building international institutions that has not yet been 
completed. The ICC is but a further step in the direction 
of  the  complete  elimination  of  dictatorship.  However, 
the  Court  tackles  crimes  only  after  their  commission; 
what we require are mechanisms to prevent dictatorship 
from taking root in the first place.
Contemporary  dictatorships  are  based  on  the  use 
of  excessive  force  and  give  themselves  false  legality 
through  the  holding  of  fraudulent  elections.  They  use 
the appearance of democracy to undermine democracy 
itself.  Those  kinds  of  elections  took  place  in  Tunisia 
in  1999,  2004  and  2009.  Our  deposed  dictator  was 
prepared  to  remain  in  power  forever.  He  intended,  for 
the  2014  elections,  to  rewrite  the  Constitution  so  he 
could run for a third term. Each time he re-imposed the 
status quo because he knew that no internal domestic or 
international mechanisms existed that could rein in his 
political activities.
During that entire period, the Tunisian democratic 
opposition could not but note the paralysis of domestic 
and  international  laws  and  legal  mechanisms.  It  was 
simply  impossible  for  the  opposition  to  turn  to  a 
Tunisian or international constitutional court. Although 
it  was  normal  that  such  a  constitutional  court  did  not 
exist  in  the  country,  it  certainly  was  not  normal  that 
a  mechanism  to  that  effect  should  fail  to  exist  within 
the United Nations, because the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, as well as many other international conventions 
and 
instruments,  backed  by  General  Assembly 
resolutions, all are texts that could be viewed as being 
the charter of humankind. The only thing missing is an 
implementation mechanism.
The  Republic  of  Tunisia  therefore  proposes  the 
creation of an international constitutional court similar 
to the ICC, which could be seized of challenging illegal 
12-52337
7
A/67/PV.12
constitutions or charters, or fraudulent elections. Such a 
court would have to be competent to consider a number 
of disputes and issues, to rule on the legality or illegality 
of elections that are not in line with the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  All  systems,  especially  democratic 
ones, would face the clear duty of being recognized by 
the international constitutional court. The court would 
also make recommendations and provide the necessary 
advice to all those who so request. The body could serve 
as a deterrent against any despot, any tyrannical regime, 
in the case of any such regime forging election results. 
The  court  would  contribute  to  the  very  disappearance 
of those regimes, because it would strengthen the role 
of peaceful civic resistance. Otherwise, the only choice 
would be to live under oppression or to turn to violence. 
We all know just how expensive that can be.
Tunisia  strongly  advocates 
the  protection  of 
the  environment  to  ensure  that  we  leave  succeding 
generations a sustainable world.
We also want to leave a world living in peace and 
to  douse  the  f lames  of  war  in  Afghanistan,  Mali,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Sudan  and 
the  Middle  East.  Tunisia  requests  rapid  humanitarian 
intervention to help save the heroic Syrian people and 
to  ensure  the  departure  of  President  Bashar  Al-Assad 
and his criminal regime. We call for the deployment of 
an Arab peace force to guarantee the transition and to 
create  a  democratic  State,  which  would  be  pluralistic 
and that could live in peace.
Tunisia  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for  the 
Palestinian  people  and  their  right  to  a  just  peace  and 
the  release  of  thousands  of  prisoners.  We  support  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State  with  Al-Quds  as  its 
capital and with membership in this Organization. 
We condemn violence against women and children. 
We denounce the fanaticism, the anti-Semitism and the 
Islamophobia that one often sees. We call for tolerance 
to allow all religious minorities, including Muslims in 
Burma and Christians living in all Muslim countries, to 
exercise their faith freely. The chasm between the rich 
and the poor must be reduced.
the 
During 
upcoming  Nuclear  Materials 
Conference,  Tunisia  will  insist  on  the  need  to  free 
the  Middle  East  from  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other 
weapons of mass destruction. 
We champion pluralistic, tolerant civilian societies 
and  institutions.  Tunisia  is  the  country  of  peaceful 
democratic revolution. 
Tunisia  asks  the  General  Assembly  to  draw  upon 
Article 22 of the Charter of the United Nations, by which 
it  may  establish  such  subsidiary  organs  as  it  deems 
necessary,  and  create  an  international  constitutional 
court  and  to  include  this  item  in  the  agenda  of  its 
sixty-eighth  session.  I  hope  this  proposal  will  enjoy 
the broadest possible support by democratic States and 
the mobilization of the international community, which 
played  such  an  important  role  in  the  creation  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  hope  that  the  same 
will  be  done  to  ensure  that  the  proposed  international 
constitutional court becomes a part of a comprehensive 
system  that  would  enable  our  people  and  succeeding 
generations  to  avoid  a  scourge  of  blood  and  tears  like 
that which has cost us so dearly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Moncef Marzouki, President of the Republic of 
Tunisia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Donald Rabindranauth Ramotar, 
President of  the Republic of Guyana
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Guyana.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guyana,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth 
Ramotar,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guyana,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Ramotar: It is a distinct honour for me 
to  speak  today  for  the  first  time  as  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana in this general debate of the sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly.
To the President of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session, I extend my delegation’s sincere congratulations 
on his election. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, His 
Excellency  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  who  presided 
over  the  sixty-sixth  session  with  distinction  during  a 
trying  period  for  this  body.  The  Secretary-General 
deserves  commendation  for  his  unstinting  service 
to  the  Organization  and  our  continued  support  as  the 
8 
12-52337
United Nations negotiates the many issues that confront 
our world.
The  present  international  system  is  characterized 
by change and crises. A tide of change is evident at all 
levels, from the local to the global, and it is either being 
precipitated  or  accompanied  by  multiple  crises  within 
the global community.
global 
efforts 
to 
In 
stymie 
the  economic 
realm,  continuing  adverse 
conditions 
achieve 
internationally  agreed-upon  development  objectives. 
Recovery  from  the  global  financial  crisis  is  at  best 
incipient and sluggish. Several of the major contributors 
to global output are grappling with unsustainable fiscal 
balances  that  hinder  their  ability  to  stimulate  lasting 
recovery.  The  problems  in  those  economies  continue 
to place a drag on global growth. Compounding those 
difficulties is the slowdown in output in major emerging 
economies.  Naturally,  those  events  have  had  serious 
negative impacts on developing countries.
Although  more  resilient  than  in  earlier  times, 
developing countries have paid a heavy price as a result 
of  the  present  difficulties  in  the  world  economy.  That 
has been ref lected in growth that is generally lower than 
pre-crisis levels. Already grappling with adverse trading 
arrangements and the consequences of an inconclusive 
and disappointing Doha Development Round, the plight 
of  developing  countries  has  been  made  worse  by  the 
prolonged global slump. Many of the gains made before 
2008 have been erased by the continuing difficulties in 
the world economy. The small, vulnerable economies of 
the Caribbean face special challenges, compounded by 
generally high levels of indebtedness and falling export 
revenues.
It  is  within  the  unfavourable  international  climate 
that  we  have  to  judge  our  own  performance.  Guyana 
has  had  to  face  many  serious  challenges.  However, 
we  have  worked  steadfastly  to  build  a  more  resilient 
economy  and  country.  We  have  managed  to  forestall 
the  worst  effects  of  the  international  economic  crises. 
Over the past six years, we have achieved an economic 
growth rate of approximately 5 per cent per annum. The 
growth  rate  is,  I  believe,  the  result  of  the  investments 
that  we  have  been  making  in  our  people.  More  than 
30  per  cent  of  our  budget  is  dedicated  to  education, 
health,  housing,  water  and  social  programmes  to  help 
the most vulnerable.
Today  Guyana  has  achieved  universal  primary 
education,  and  we  have  come  a  long  way  towards 
A/67/PV.12
attaining  universal  secondary  education.  However, 
significant challenges remain in reaching people in the 
remote areas of our country. If we are to encourage our 
youth to become responsible citizens and prepare them 
to be the leaders of tomorrow, we must ensure that our 
education  systems  allow  for  the  development  of  their 
full potential.
I  am  therefore  honoured  to  join  the  Secretary-
General in promoting the Education First initiative. We 
are nonetheless conscious that the sustainability of our 
growth  and  that  of  other  developing  countries  will  be 
hindered if the weakness in the international economy 
is prolonged.
Guyana therefore continues to advocate for reform 
of the graduation policies and aid allocation criteria of 
the  international  financial  institutions  to  take  account 
of  the  structural  vulnerability  and  level  of  economic 
resilience of small States, for measures to ease the debt 
burden, for renewed access to concessionary financing 
for  highly  indebted  middle-income  countries  and  for 
the strengthening of financial regulations.
The  international  economic  crisis  has  also  led  to 
growing negative social problems. Despite great efforts 
by  many  countries,  the  war  against  narco–trafficking 
is far from over. That scourge has an impact on all our 
countries. It has also directly and indirectly engendered 
the  growth  in  criminal  activity  in  our  region.  The 
availability of guns in many societies — I would note 
that we do not produce them — most of which has come 
as  a  by-product  of  the  narco-trade,  has  contributed  to 
the  growth  of  gun  crimes  and  murders  in  the  region 
and beyond. To deal with the problem, Guyana is ready 
to cooperate fully with the international community to 
bring the criminals to justice and free our people from 
the multiple dangers that drug trafficking creates.
Even  as  our  society  advances,  the  issues  we  have 
to  deal  with  often  seem  to  multiply.  The  issue  of 
trafficking  in  persons  has  also  arisen  over  the  past 
decade as a major concern. We join with all democratic 
and decent people throughout the world in condemning 
that crime. Again, it is a campaign that requires a high 
level of cooperation. We are ready to play our part.
If solving those collective problems requires greater 
will,  then  other  transnational  problems  such  as  the 
climate  crisis  require  urgent,  immediate  and  decisive 
action. Our failure to do so risks causing irretrievable 
harm to humankind.
12-52337
9
A/67/PV.12
Despite  the  strong  scientific  and  economic  case 
for  action,  the  global  response  to  the  climate  crisis 
falls  short  of  what  is  required  in  terms  of  both  scale 
and  urgency.  The  projected  level  of  reduction  in 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  is  much  too  low.  Scientists 
are warning us of the catastrophic consequences if the 
rise  in  greenhouse  emissions  is  not  halted.  Already 
some States are facing imminent extinction. 
To  add  insult  to  injury,  the  promise  of  fast-start 
financing  made  at  Copenhagen  a  few  years  ago  has 
not  materialized.  The  result  is  that  those  most  at  risk 
are  effectively  deprived  of  the  means  to  adapt  to  that 
existential  threat.  We  cannot  continue  to  deal  with 
threats to the survival of the planet with such casualness.
As  a  low-lying  coastal  State,  Guyana  is  mindful 
of the dangers posed by climate change. We have been 
at  the  forefront  of  the  appeals  to  the  international 
community  to  match  its  concern  with  tangible  action. 
It  is  clear  that  some  countries  are  taking  the  issue 
seriously.  Norway  has  led  the  way  by  giving  tangible 
support  in  fighting  climate  change.  Guyana,  for  its 
part,  has  chosen  to  pursue  a  low-carbon  development 
strategy  in  order  to  ensure  economic  growth,  social 
progress  and  environmental  sustainability  for  present 
and future generations of our citizens. 
to  sustainable  development  and 
But, as our experience patently demonstrates, that 
path is not without its hurdles. Just three short months 
ago,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  we  renewed  our  collective 
commitment 
to 
ensuring  the  promotion  of  an  economically,  socially 
and environmentally sustainable future for our planet. 
We  also  agreed  that  the  eradication  of  poverty  was 
the  greatest  challenge  facing  the  world  today,  and  we 
recommitted  ourselves  to  freeing  humankind  from 
poverty and hunger as a matter of urgency.
We  need,  therefore,  as  a  matter  of  exigency,  to 
respond to the plight of more than 1 billion of our fellow 
citizens  who  bear  the  ache  of  hunger  on  a  daily  basis. 
They are found on every continent, in every city and in 
rural communities across the world.
Their plight is worsening. Food prices are surging 
once  again,  and  risk  rising  even  further  as  severe 
droughts decimate crop yields. Those who suffer from 
chronic hunger today cannot wait until the international 
community  agrees  on  a  post-2015  development 
framework.  They  cannot  wait  until  we  craft  new 
sustainable development goals. They need action now. 
The  decades-long  under-investment  in  agriculture 
and rural development needs to be urgently reversed if 
food security is to be guaranteed on a sustainable basis. 
In 
line  with 
the  Five  Rome  Principles  for 
Sustainable Global Food Security, Guyana calls for an 
acceleration  of  the  twin-track  approach  to  enhancing 
direct  action  against  hunger  for  the  most  vulnerable 
and for promoting medium- to long-term sustainability 
in  agriculture  and  rural  development.  In  that  context, 
increased  international  support  for  the  expansion  of 
rural infrastructure is critical.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
If we are to maintain our credibility, we must avoid 
indecisiveness on the issues that aff lict humankind. We 
are only three short years away from 2015, the year we 
set for ourselves to reach important goals for improving 
the security of our planet and enhancing the quality of 
life for all. We must do what we promised to do and we 
must do so without delay.
Greater alacrity is also needed in the area of politics, 
where tensions and unrest in many corners of our globe 
threaten to undermine international peace and security. 
The  tide  of  democratic  change  that  has  swept  the 
planet and raised the expectations of peoples for social 
progress and better standards of life in an environment 
of  enlarged  freedoms  is  receding.  Those  legitimate 
aspirations  deserve  the  respect  and  encouragement 
of  the  Governments  concerned  and  the  support  of  the 
international  community.  No  people  should  be  denied 
the  right  to  live  in  dignity  or  to  live  a  life  free  from 
fear and want. At the same time, we must be careful to 
guard against the superimposition of agendas based on 
ulterior designs that are alien to those noble aspirations. 
While  we  give  solidarity  and  support  where  needed, 
let  us  not  forget  that  this  body  crafted  an  important 
principle of self-determination.
Human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  are  best 
preserved  in  an  environment  of  peace  and  security. 
Respect for the rule of law and tolerance for the faiths 
and  beliefs  of  all  humankind  must  continue  to  be  the 
guiding principles through which we build harmonious 
societies.  While  we  condemn  the  attacks  and  insults 
that  the  recent  film  heaped  on  Islam,  we  believe 
that  nothing  of  that  nature  can  justify  the  murder  of 
diplomats and the violence we have seen. We therefore 
extend  our  sympathy  to  the  people  and  Government 
10 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
of  the  United  States  of  America  on  the  murder  of 
Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  and  others  in  Libya. 
We  believe  that  the  best  homage  we  can  pay  to  their 
memory is to work even harder for a just, peaceful and 
tolerant world.
The  myriad  challenges  affecting  our  world  today 
pose  a  formidable  test  to  the  multilateral  system  that 
embodies  our  collective  aspirations  for  peace  and 
development. Such challenges tax our collective resolve 
to act in the best interest of humankind.
In concert with the proposed theme of this debate, 
the  United  Nations  must  continue  to  pursue  peaceful 
solutions to political conf licts, no matter how slow and 
painstaking the process may be.
It is my country’s sincere hope that peace will soon 
come  to  the  Syrian  people.  Guyana  urges  the  renewal 
of efforts to bring the warring parties to the negotiating 
table. The international community must contribute to 
peace and not to the exacerbation of strife and conf lict. 
Any abandonment of its role in bringing peace to Syria 
will  result  in  greater  suffering  in  that  country  and 
undermine security in that part of the world. The United 
Nations must therefore persevere in finding a peaceful 
end to the conf lict. We therefore support the efforts of 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  trying  to  bring  the 
conf lict in Syria to a peaceful end.
I  also  wish  to  underline  Guyana’s  strong  support 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conf lict. We are of the view that the resolution of that 
conf lict, which has lasted for too long, is key to a lasting 
peace in the Middle East. Guyana recognizes the State 
of Palestine based on its 1967 borders and supports its 
aspirations  to  full  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
The  Palestinian  people  deserve  the  same  rights  as 
people everywhere: to live in dignity, security, freedom 
and  independence,  at  peace  with  all  their  neighbours 
and with the right to move freely in their own land.
Guyana is encouraged by the continuing efforts of 
the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan to resolve their differences through negotiations. 
We  are  hopeful  also  that  the  people  of  Mali  will  be 
able  to  overcome  their  current  crisis  and  restore  the 
celebrated legacy of Timbuktu.
Having regard for the principle of the sovereignty of 
States set down in the United Nations Charter, Guyana 
wishes to place on record once again its firm opposition 
to  the  economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo 
imposed against its sister Caribbean State of Cuba. We 
call for an immediate end to the policy. Cuba has made 
great  contributions  to  the  social  development  of  many 
developing  countries.  The  lifting  of  the  blockade  can 
allow it to do much more.
The  United  Nations  was  established  at  a  time 
when  the  vast  majority  of  the  human  family  was  not 
represented  in  its  councils  and  most  nations  could not 
speak  on  their  own  behalf.  That  is  not  the  case  today. 
The near universal representativeness of its membership 
gives the United Nations unparalleled legitimacy among 
world institutions. The governance of the Organization 
needs major reform if it is to ref lect the realities of the 
present time and give full expression to the aspirations 
of  the  world’s  peoples.  For  the  Security  Council,  the 
imperative for reform is particularly urgent. I reaffirm 
Guyana’s  steadfast  support  for  timely  reform  of  the 
Council  through  an  expansion  in  both  the  permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories,  with  particular  regard 
to the representation of developing countries.
The  United  Nations  must  also  be  reformed  in  a 
manner  that  will  enhance  its  contribution  to  global 
economic  governance,  in  keeping  with  the  purposes 
of  its  Charter.  The  United  Nations  has  an  important 
role  to  play  in  addressing  the  democracy  deficit  in 
decision-making  on  such  matters,  which  often  have 
far-reaching implications, particularly for small States. 
Reforming  the  United  Nations  along  those  lines  will 
provide  it  with  greater  legitimacy,  which  is  key  to  its 
effectiveness in the eyes of the world. That legitimacy 
will  be  enhanced  by  the  delivery  of  results  that  meet 
the expectations of the global citizenry in areas where 
action is most needed.
In conclusion, allow me to recognize the great role 
played by this body over the years in promoting world 
peace. It has done a lot to contain and resolve regional 
and local conf licts. In our time, the United Nations has 
become indispensable in tackling pressing global issues. 
We  must  therefore  all  work  together  to  strengthen  the 
Organization so as to make it more effective in the face 
of the many challenges that are ahead.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Guyana for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guyana,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
12-52337
11
A/67/PV.12
Address by Mr. Thein Sein, President of the 
Republic of the Union of Myanmar
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Mr.  Thein  Sein,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Union of Myanmar, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thein  Sein, 
President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sein  (spoke  in  Burmese;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  First  and  foremost,  I 
would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his  well-
deserved election as President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  His  country,  Serbia,  and 
Myanmar have traditionally enjoyed a close friendship 
and cooperation. Under his able leadership, the General 
Assembly  will  hold  deliberations  on  measures  to 
address  the  challenges  faced  by  the  world  today.  I  am 
confident  that  his  great  wisdom,  rich  experience  and 
great  diplomatic  skills  will  guide  our  discussions  to 
produce the desired outcomes.
I would also like to take this opportunity to extend 
our sincere thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, 
His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his 
outstanding leadership at the sixty-sixth session.
Myanmar consistently pursues an independent and 
active foreign policy, a basic tenet of which is to actively 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. In so doing, we encourage efforts to settle 
differences  among  nations  by  peaceful  and  amicable 
means.  Our  position  is  consistent  with  the  essence  of 
the  theme  of  the  current  session,  namely,    “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or situations by peaceful means”.
There are different views and assessments regarding 
the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development,  held  in  Brazil  in  June.  A 
number  of  important  decisions  were  taken  on  various 
issues,  such  as  the  renewal  of  commitments,  the 
linkage of sustainable development to the Millennium 
Development  Goals, 
the 
establishment  of  arrangements  for  better  coordination 
on sustainable development. Member States must turn 
renewable  energy  and 
those decisions into actions in order to leave the legacy 
of  a  safe  and  sustainable  environment  to  our  future 
generations.
Since  becoming  a  Member  State,  Myanmar  has 
always adhered to the founding principles of the United 
Nations.  Our  participation  in  the  General  Assembly 
here in New York amply demonstrates our commitment 
to  active  participation  in,  and  support  of,  the  work  of 
the Organization.
Today’s  world  is  full  of  new  challenges  and 
opportunities.  Urbanization  and 
industrialization 
are  taking  place  in  developing  countries  on  an 
unprecedented  scale.  Rapid  progress  in  information 
technology  gives  the  impression  that  our  world  is 
getting  smaller.  Meanwhile,  the  natural  environment 
and the climate are facing new threats and challenges. 
In  short,  the  world  is  changing  as  never  before.  It  is 
also  timely  and  appropriate  to  devote  attention  during 
the  current  session  to  issues  such  as  the  post-2015 
development agenda and the rule of law.
Myanmar  is  moving  forward  on  the  democratic 
path, but that has not been an easy task. I would therefore 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  share  our  experiences 
in that regard. In the ongoing reform process, we face 
challenges as well as opportunities. Within a short time, 
the people of Myanmar have brought about remarkable 
changes.  I  feel  greatly  privileged  and  honoured  to 
dutifully  serve  the  people  as  their  President  at  this 
crucial time in the history of our nation. I truly consider 
my people as my own parents and elders.
Since  I  took  office  some  18  months  ago,  the 
parliament,  the  judiciary,  the  armed  forces,  the  ethnic 
groups, the political parties, civil society and the people 
at large have been taking tangible and irreversible steps 
in the democratic transition and reform process. Leaving 
behind a system of authoritarian Government, in which 
the administrative, legislative and judicial powers were 
centralized,  we  have  now  established  a  democratic 
Government  and  a  strong  and  viable  parliament  that 
follows a practice of checks and balances.
Despite the challenges, we can now see encouraging 
progress  and  significant  developments  in  the  country. 
Those include the granting of amnesties to prisoners; the 
dignified return of exiled political forces; the successful 
convening  of  the  2012  by-elections  in  a  free,  fair  and 
transparent manner; the abolition of media censorship; 
freedom  of  access  to  the  Internet;  the  establishment 
12 
12-52337
of  worker  and  employer  organizations;  and  increased 
participation by the people in the political process.
At  the  current  stage  of  the  political  process,  we 
can  see  the  emergence  of  democratic  traits,  such  as 
the  increasing  participation  of  various  political  forces 
and their mutual tolerance, magnanimity, the expanded 
scope  of  political  participation,  representation  and 
accountability. Our Government and other stakeholders 
have  fostered  a  new  political  culture  of  tolerance  and 
dialogue.
The former main opposition leader, Nobel laureate 
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, now participates in parliament, 
not  only  in  her  capacity  as  a  member  but  also  as 
Chairperson  of  the  parliamentary  Rule  of  Law  and 
Stability Committee. She is also in New York this week. 
As a Myanmar citizen, I would like to congratulate her 
on  the  honour  that  she  has  received  in  this  country  in 
recognition of her efforts for democracy.
Our  country’s  political  progress  is  strengthening 
its  political  legitimacy.  That,  in  turn,  facilitates  the 
establishment of basic political stability, thereby paving 
the  way  for  the  economic  and  social  transformation 
necessary for better living standards for the people.
The  legislative  body  has  also  developed  well  and 
functions  more  effectively  at  every  sitting.  Parliament 
has  now  adopted  landmark  laws  through  democratic 
practices.  We  are  promulgating  laws  and  by-laws, 
taking into account the fact that economic development 
must not widen the gap between the rich and the poor. 
The  rights  of  citizens  must  be  protected.  The  natural 
environment  must  be  preserved.  Our  workers  should 
enjoy rights in line with international standards. We give 
carefull  consideration  to  investments  in  the  extractive 
sectors,  such  as  energy,  to  ensure  transparency  and 
impartiality.
We believe that the cessation of all armed conf licts 
is  a  prerequisite  to  building  genuine  democracy.  As 
such, we place high priority on achieving lasting peace 
in the country. In accordance with our motto “From war 
to  peace”,  we  are  striving  to  put  an  end  to  the  long-
standing  problems  in  regions  inhabited  by  our  ethnic 
groups. To date, we have reached ceasefire agreements 
with  10  armed  groups.  We  will  continue  the  peace 
talks, while further strengthening confidence-building 
measures. Peace negotiations at the national level will 
then continue towards a final peace agreement, which 
would completely end the armed hostilities.
A/67/PV.12
In  order  to  redress  the  situation  in  northern 
Myanmar,  leaders  of  the  Union  Peace-making  Work 
Committee  and  the  Kachin  armed  group  are  holding 
informal  consultations  and  are  working  to  further 
strengthen confidence-building measures. We consider 
any loss of life and property on either side in the armed 
conf lict as a loss for the country.
social 
and 
reforms, 
economic 
While  the  Government  is  resolutely  pursuing 
political, 
some 
unfortunate and unexpected issues have arisen. A case 
in  point  is  the  recent  communal  violence  in  Rakhine 
State.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  mention  in 
the  first  place  that  the  people  inhabiting  our  country, 
regardless of race, religion and gender, have the right to 
live in peace and security.
As 
is  aware,  an 
the  Assembly 
independent 
national-level 
investigation  commission  has  been 
established to look into the issue. To ensure impartiality, 
the commission is composed of representatives from all 
strata of society, including widely respected personalities 
from the Buddhist, Muslim, Christian and Hindu faiths. 
Upon completion of its task, the commission will submit 
its findings and recommendations to me.
Demonstrating  our  determination  to  resolve  the 
issue in a transparent manner, we have facilitated field 
visits  to  Rakhine  State  by  representatives  from  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  United  Nations  agencies, 
the  United  States  and  resident  foreign  diplomats 
in  Myanmar.  Access  is  being  facilitated  to  those 
organizations 
to  provide  relief 
assistance to both communities without discrimination.
that  are  willing 
The issue at hand cannot be resolved overnight. It 
will  be  resolved  by  taking  short-term  and  long-term 
measures  through  a  multifaceted  approach,  taking 
into  account  political,  economic  and  social  aspects.  I 
sincerely believe that as an independent and sovereign 
State, Myanmar has done the right thing to secure our 
borders  and  to  safeguard  our  sovereignty.  We  will  do 
our utmost to resolve the issue in line with international 
norms.
I  am  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  Myanmar’s 
democratic  transformation  process  will  be  a  complex 
and  delicate  one  that  requires  patience.  To  complete 
the  process,  we  certainly  need  the  understanding  and 
support of the United Nations and its States Members, 
the  international  community  as  a  whole  and,  last  but 
not least, the people of Myanmar. At the same time, it is 
12-52337
13
A/67/PV.12
equally important that Myanmar should be viewed from 
a different and new perspective. It is also necessary for 
us to be able to work in a more favourable environment 
than ever before.
Myanmar  is  now  ushering  in  a  new  era.  As  a 
member  in  the  family  of  nations,  Myanmar  will 
participate more actively in the activities of the United 
Nations in various fields. Standing as a responsible and 
respectable nation on the world stage, we will take on 
the challenges of the twenty-first century in a bold and 
resolute manner.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment 
as General-Secretary and on his achievements thus far.
Before  I  conclude,  allow  me  to  brief ly  mention 
an  important  figure,  namely,  U  Thant,  a  brilliant 
son  of  Myanmar  who  served  as  the  third  Secretary-
General.  Even  in  those  days,  U  Thant  had  a  vision  of 
one  world.  He  envisioned  a  global  society  guided  by 
the spirit of one world — a world safe for diversity and 
a  place  of  peaceful  coexistence  where  global  citizens 
could  practice  the  virtues  of  tolerance,  cooperation, 
understanding  and  compassion.  We  believe  that  if  we 
make his vision a reality, we will soon achieve a world 
that is more peaceful and prosperous. U Thant’s tireless 
endeavours for peace and his achievements during his 
tenure as the Secretary-General will never be forgotten. 
The people of Myanmar will always take pride in and 
remember him as a great son of Myanmar.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thein  Sein,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Union of Myanmar, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by 
the  President  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia.
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
the 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gjorge 
Ivanov,  President  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ivanov  (spoke  in  Macedonian;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  an  honour  and  a 
privilege  to  address  this  forum  today  and  to  share  the 
views of the Republic of Macedonia regarding a number 
of issues of concern for all of us.
Allow  me  first  to  extend  our  congratulations  to 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  the  prestigious 
position  of  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  believe  Mr.  Jeremić  will 
respond to all the challenges and tasks that await him, 
and  I  wish  to  express  our  full  readiness  to  cooperate. 
Allow me also to express my thanks and to compliment 
the  former  President  of  the  Assembly,  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for  his  successful  presidency 
during the sixth-sixth session.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
the work and efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  which  undoubtedly  have  contributed  to 
strengthening  the  role  and  reputation  of  the  world 
Organization.  It  was  a  real  honour  for  me  and  for  the 
citizens of Macedonian to be his host. The Republic of 
Macedonia  highly  values  and  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  endeavours,  and  he  can  count  on  our 
continued full support.
Now, more than ever in the history of humankind, 
the  nations  of  the  world  are  confronted  with  the  same 
challenges, are victims of the same threats and share the 
yearning  for  a  better  future.  Effective  multilateralism 
is  of  essential  importance  for  the  development  of 
collective action to respond to common challenges. The 
United  Nations  is  an  organization  whose  legitimacy 
to  tackle  global  challenges  through  global  actions  is 
universally  accepted  and  undeniable.  The  support 
provided  by  Member  States  is  of  crucial  importance. 
I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  will  continue  to  contribute  actively  to  the 
reinforcement and improvement of the efficiency of the 
system.
This  diverse  world  is  in  need  of  a  common 
denominator, a link that unites all individuals, peoples 
and  countries  regardless  of  differences  in  culture, 
language  and  religion.  That  link  is  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  with  its  principles  and  fundamental 
14 
12-52337
values. The Republic of Macedonia is firmly dedicated 
to  respect  for  the  Charter,  which  serves  as  the  basis 
of  its  foreign  policy.  Ever  since  our  declaration  of 
independence  and  after  becoming  a  Member  of  the 
United Nations, the peaceful resolution of international 
disputes  has  been  one  of  our  leading  principles  and 
guidelines  for  our  behaviour  as  a  responsible  member 
of  the  international  community.  Therefore,  I  wish  to 
welcome the General Assembly recommendation to put 
the issue forward as a topic of debate this year.
An  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth  a  pound  of  cure. 
When  speaking  about  international  disputes,  it  is 
inevitable to refer to prevention activities as one of the 
mechanisms for their resolution.
Today preventive diplomacy has proven its relevance 
once  again.  In  the  early  days  of  our  independence, 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  was  host  to  the  United 
Nations Preventive Deployment Force, a one-of-a-kind 
mechanism for the United Nations at the time. It was a 
positive experience for Macedonia, the United Nations 
and the Member States involved. We are witness to the 
fact that the evolution of international relations and the 
increased  complexity  of  challenges  in  our  globalized 
world confirm the need to develop mechanisms and to 
use good offices.
for  advocating  more 
At  this  point,  I  would  like  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General 
thorough 
analysis of this issue in his report on strengthening the 
role of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
conf lict  prevention  and  resolution  (A/66/811),  which 
produced  good,  operative  solutions  for  upgrading  the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  area.  I  believe 
we can and must explore new ways and possibilities for 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  Secretary-General  in  the 
resolution of international disputes.
In  a  time  of  global  economic  crisis,  the  focus  of 
the United Nations on preventing conf licts and further 
developing preventive diplomacy is understandable. The 
Republic of Macedonia believes it makes sense to focus 
on the effective and efficient use of resources — which 
are shrinking — which is why we have been attentively 
following  all  activities  relating  to  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on civilian capacity in the aftermath 
of  conf lict  (A/66/311)  and  to  the  implementation  of 
the  recommendations  of  the  Senior  Advisory  Group 
found therein. It is very important that the international 
community make progress in preventing new conf licts 
and relapses into conf lict in vulnerable countries.
A/67/PV.12
The Republic of Macedonia stands ready to offer its 
experience in the area of democratic institution-building, 
based on the Macedonian inclusive, democratic model 
of  integration  without  assimilation.  In  that  context,  I 
wish  to  refer  to  the  recent  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels. 
The Republic of Macedonia attaches great importance 
to  this  issue,  which  is  undoubtedly  the  basis  of  all 
democratic  societies,  and  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  rule  of  law  (A/66/749)  has  provided 
food  for  thought  and  further  action.  The  Republic  of 
Macedonia  believes  that  inclusiveness  is  an  important 
principle that needs to be implemented when it comes 
to the rule of law. The rule of law is multifaceted and 
should cover all stakeholders, especially civil society.
The  rule  of  law  is  incomplete  and  is  impossible 
to  achieve  without  respect  for  human  rights.  As  the 
Secretary-General said in his statement at the opening 
of  the  general  debate  at  this  session,  “We  shall  have 
neither  peace  nor  development  without  respect  for 
human rights and the rule of law” (see A/67/PV.6). As 
a country building a model of inclusive democracy, the 
Republic of Macedonia attaches particular importance 
to  the  development,  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights. It is the right and duty of every country 
to  safeguard  and  promote  the  rights  of  its  citizens. 
Human  rights  should  reinforce  and  reaffirm  national 
sovereignty. This, then, will be the best guarantee that, 
as a principle, the responsibility to protect will remain 
the  desired  first  and  primary  pillar.  The  Republic  of 
Macedonia  will  continue  its  efforts  to  preserve  and 
promote  human  rights  —  to  promote  democracy  and 
the  rule  of  law,  gender  equality  and  the  improvement 
of  the  role  of  women,  and  to  protect  vulnerable  and 
marginalized groups.
We  also  strongly  support  Member  States’  active 
participation  in  the  universal  periodic  review  as  a 
mechanism  for  promoting  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Human Rights Council. In that context, I would like to 
remind  the  Assembly  that  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
has  presented  its  candidature  for  membership  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2014-2016.  We 
are  convinced  that  our  experience  in  this  area,  along 
with  our  particular  achievements  and  ambition  to 
promote this area of global governance, will enable us 
to make a full contribution to further strengthening and 
affirming human rights in subsequent years.
Once again this year all priorities are focused on the 
three most important pillars of our world Organization: 
12-52337
15
A/67/PV.12
peace  and  security,  sustainable  development  and 
human  rights.  All  are  mutually  related.  There  can 
be  no  sustainable  development  without  peace  and 
security, and there can be no sustainable peace without 
development  and  poverty  reduction.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  continue  to  be  the  parameters  by 
which we evaluate our success.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia’s  aspiration 
to 
become  a  member  of  the  European  Union  has  created 
the  necessary  spur  for  political,  economic  and  social 
reforms.  Promoting  equitable  and  comprehensive 
development  founded  on  human  rights  has  provided  a 
solid  base  for  the  national  development  agenda.  The 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  therefore 
established  a  programme  focused  on  emphasizing 
economic  development, 
improving  our  citizens’ 
standard  of  living,  creating  jobs,  fighting  corruption, 
increasing  education  opportunities  and  promoting 
democracy and inter-ethnic relations.
Balanced  and  sustainable  development  is  a  major 
investment  in  the  future,  and  in  the  interest  of  the 
general  well-being,  everyone  must  participate.  The 
outcome  document  of  Rio+20  —  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288,  annex)  —  should  be  taken  as  an  additional 
impetus  to  use  alternative  possibilities  for  achieving 
sustainable  development.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
in  coordination  with  the  policies  of  its  European 
partners, will advocate expanding those alternatives.
Sustainable  development 
to 
disaster  risk  reduction  and  adaptation  to  climate 
change.  Recognizing 
the 
Republic of Macedonia supports a holistic approach to 
the implementation of these goals in national, regional 
and global strategies, policies and plans.
interdependence, 
is  closely 
linked 
that 
We have demonstrated our dedication to the region 
of  South-eastern  Europe  and  to  regional  cooperation 
through our chairmanship of the South-East European 
Cooperation  Process.  The  region  is  not  immune  to 
global  challenges  and  threats,  and  such  threats  can  be 
removed only by meeting the obligations and numerous 
commitments we have all undertaken. I am convinced 
that intensive regional cooperation in this area will help 
us build a region more resistant to natural disasters. We 
wish focus our chairmanship on the process of meeting 
the real and everyday needs of our citizens — those of 
peace, security and development — that are the result 
of  global  challenges  that  recognize  neither  political 
and  ethnic  barriers  nor  religious  groups.  Among 
the  priorities  of  Macedonia’s  chairmanship  will  be 
cooperation  in  economic  and  agricultural  matters, 
culture  and  tourism,  science  and  education,  cross-
border concerns and the protection of the environment. 
Our principles are based on solving citizens’ problems 
regardless  of  ethnic,  religious  or  any  other  affiliation. 
I  see  no  way  of  doing  this  other  than  through  close 
regional cooperation.
Let  us  build  good-neighbourly  relations  on  the 
basis of solidarity. In return, we expect our neighbours 
to  show  solidarity  in  actions  for  a  safer  region.  We 
can  and  we  must  be  ready  for  future  challenges  so  as 
to  provide  a  safer  future  for  future  generations.  Our 
young  people  will  hold  us  to  this.  They  expect  our 
generation to behave responsibly. They live in a time of 
new technologies, and they already know what is going 
on  at  the  global  level.  I  believe  firmly  that  we  should 
focus  all  our  energy  on  young  people,  to  create  youth 
for  the  future  and  a  future  for  our  youth,  formed  in  a 
spirit  of  dialogue,  tolerance  and  respect  for  diversity. 
That  is  why,  in  parallel  with  the  South-East  European 
Cooperation  Process  summit,  we  will  also  host  the 
eleventh Forum of the Dialogue among Civilizations, in 
cooperation with UNESCO and the Council of Europe, 
with the focus on youth.
As President of the Republic of Macedonia, permit 
me  to  say  that  we  are  greatly  looking  forward  to 
celebrating  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  first  regional 
gathering  of  the  dialogue  among  civilizations,  which 
we are preparing together with UNESCO. It was here, 
at  this  rostrum,  that  my  predecessor,  President  Boris 
Trajkovski,  with  the  strong  backing  of  the  United 
Nations  and  UNESCO,  shared  his  dreams  about  that 
initiative,  which  was  then  realized  in  Ohrid  in  2003, 
when  the  wounds  from  the  bloody  conf lict  in  the 
former  Yugoslavia  were  still  fresh.  The  words  of  the 
Ohrid  message  speak  of  the  undoubtedly  enormous 
potential  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia:  to  be  a 
functional multi-ethnic, multilingual and multireligious 
foundation of the European Balkans and of the Balkans 
in Europe.
Next year we will host the third World Conference 
on  Dialogue  among  Religions  and  Civilizations. 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  always  believed  that 
dialogue is irreplaceable and put its belief into practice. 
We condemn all forms of violence. No one should be a 
victim  of  violence  —  not  individuals,  peoples,  States 
or  their  official  representatives.  Just  as  the  limits  of 
16 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
decency must be observed in public spaces, so violence 
can never be a fitting response.
everyone here: address us from the point of view of the 
future.
The rule of law and human rights are fundamental 
principles and they cannot be subject to compromise. I 
fully agree with the position of the Secretary-General, 
stated  during  his  visit  to  Macedonia  in  July,  that  we 
should  never  make  compromises  when  it  comes  to 
universally  acknowledged  principles.  It  is  the  duty 
of  the  United  Nations  and  of  each  and  every  one  of 
us  not  to  subject  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights  to 
compromise.  Therefore,  I  have  asked  the  Secretary-
General  to  bring  renewed  attention  to  the  2008  report 
of the Independent Expert on minority issues, Ms. Gay 
McDougall,  entitled  “Promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human  rights,  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights,  including  the  right  to  development” 
(A/HRC/7/23).
Allow  me  as  well  to  recall  the  recommendation 
in  that  report  that  the  Government  of  our  southern 
neighbour should abstain from disputing whether there 
is  a  Macedonian  minority,  and  instead  focus  on  the 
protection  of  the  right  to  self-identification,  freedom 
of  expression  and  freedom  of  association  of  that 
community.  In  the  recommendation,  our  neighbour  is 
urged to respect the judgment of the European Court of 
Human Rights, according to which the country should 
be  allowed  to  use  the  word  Macedonian  to  denote  its 
name  and  to  freely  express  its  ethnic  identity.  The 
report  concludes  that  the  right  to  protection  must  be 
respected,  as  elaborated  in  the  1992  Declaration  on 
Minorities  and  in  the  basic  international  conventions 
on human rights.
I  expressed  my  expectation  that  the  Secretary-
General would make use of his authority and engage in 
order  to  overcome  the  impasse  on  the  talks  regarding 
our  country’s  name  that  are  taking  place  under  his 
auspices. Respect for the judgment of the International 
Court of Justice will mean respect for international law 
and the rule of law in practice. I believe in this process. 
I believe that this process can lead to a solution, but we 
cannot wait another 19 years for that to happen.
Today,  in  the  twenty-first  century,  it  seems  quite 
absurd  to  be  called  “a  former  nation”  or  “a  former 
colony”.  In  the  name  of  the  dignity  of  my  people,  I 
hereby  take  this  opportunity  to  publicly  thank  all  134 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  have  recognized 
the  constitutional  name  of  my  country,  which  is  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia.  And  here  is  my  appeal  to 
I  fully  subscribe  to  what  was  said  by  the  United 
States  President,  Mr.  Barack  Obama,  just  a  few  days 
ago, in this very Hall. We believe that freedom and self-
determination are not unique to one culture. Those are 
not simply American values or Western values, they are 
universal values.
It  has  happened  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations  that  a  country  was  given  additional  criteria 
to  become  a  Member,  but  the  1948  advisory  opinion 
of the International Court of Justice stated clearly that 
this  was  not  correct  and  was  contrary  to  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  Except  in  our  case,  no  one  has 
been  deprived  of  the  right  of  self-identification  thus 
far.  Macedonia  should  get  what  it  rightfully  deserves; 
something  that  all  Member  States  represented  here 
already  have  and  enjoy.  Without  the  right  of  self-
identification,  Macedonia  is  prevented  from  being 
equal to all other Member States.
In  that  regard  we  are  discussing  international 
law.  We  are  talking  about  the  rule  of  law.  Here  is  the 
judgment of the International Court of Justice adopted 
10 months ago in favour of the Republic of Macedonia. 
We  are  asking  for  this  judgment,  adopted  by  a  body 
of  the  United  Nations,  to  be  respected.  We  ask  for 
this  because  we  have  been  prevented  from  using  our 
constitutional  name  even  at  this  very  rostrum.  The 
International  Court  of  Justice,  in  paragraph  95  of  the 
judgment,  states  clearly  that  Macedonia  has  the  right 
to  refer  to  itself  as  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  in  its 
relations with the other party and within international 
organizations.
In a spirit of good-neighbourly relations, and because 
of  our  strong  determination  to  overcome  and  settle 
unresolved issues, I take this opportunity to appeal to 
our neighbour to work together with us in that direction. 
From this rostrum in the heart of the United Nations, I 
urge them to respect the judgment of the International 
Court of Justice and their own internationally assumed 
obligations. We are neighbours, but we wish to be more 
than just neighbours. We wish to be partners, allies and 
friends, and to be able to build together the present and 
future of our people, our countries and our region. We 
wish  to  work  together  with  them  and  build  a  safe  and 
free world for our children.
The protracted nature of the reform of the Security 
Council and the revitalization of the General Assembly, 
12-52337
17
A/67/PV.12
as  well  as  the  comprehensive  process  of  reinforcing 
the coherence and efficiency of the system, should not 
discourage us. On the contrary, they should serve as an 
impetus for further mobilization.
Only  the  United  Nations  can  provide  integrated 
solutions for interdependent issues such as development, 
peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  humanitarian 
action.
In  conclusion,  I  invite  all  Member  States  to  recall 
the  words  of  Jean  Monnet,  the  father  of  modern 
Europe.  He  described  the  use  of  the  veto  in  modern 
European history as the expression of lack of power for 
dialogue and the impossibility of overcoming national 
egoism. Let us build a prosperous world for our future 
generations.
We  hope  that  our  neighbour  will  make  its  way 
out  of  crisis  as  soon  as  possible.  We  have  proposed  a 
series  of  practical  measures  on  how  to  upgrade  our 
economic  and  good  neighbourly  cooperation,  which 
should  include  a  bilateral  agreement  on  the  avoidance 
of double taxation. Macedonian taxes are favourable for 
our neighbour’s businessmen and, as always, the doors 
of the Republic of Macedonia are wide open to them.
The Republic of Macedonia firmly believes that the 
United  Nations  remains  the  centre  of  multilateralism 
and  global  governance.  The  Organization  inspires 
universal dialogue, which in most cases results in joint 
solutions for handling global problems in order to reach 
a shared vision of the future of the international system.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
the 
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro 
Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Equatorial Guinea, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  wish  first  to  express  my  Government’s 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session  and  a  former  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Serbia,  on  his  country’s  election  to  preside  over  the 
Assembly. We are very happy about that because, both 
in  the  past  and  currently,  his  country  has  played  an 
active role in eliminating tensions and inequality and in 
strengthening the rule of law in international relations. 
We  are  firmly  convinced  that,  during  his  tenure,  the 
proceedings of the General Assembly will be conducted 
in a climate of consensus and solidarity among Member 
States.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  being  held  at  a  time  of  turmoil,  when  many  States 
are  experiencing  internal  tensions,  there  is  an  acute 
economic  crisis,  developing  countries  and 
their 
emerging economies are encountering difficulties, the 
environment and the atmosphere are deteriorating, and 
other major catastrophes have caused the loss of human 
lives  and  the  destruction  of  infrastructures  vital  to 
humankind.
The  major  efforts  made  by 
the  Secretary-
General  through  the  United  Nations  system  have  not 
been  sufficient  to  have  a  decisive  impact.  Greater 
commitment,  joint  action  and  unified  approaches 
on  the  part  of  all  States  are  required  to  combat  with 
determination  the  problems  of  concern  to  everyone 
today.  In  point  of  fact,  the  Secretariat  has  stressed 
the  main  outlines  of  the  problems,  which  constitute 
the  agenda  for  the  current  session  —  for  instance, 
developing  countries’  need  for  economic  growth,  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
development  of  the  African  continent,  the  promotion 
of  human  rights  and  the  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance,  the  promotion  of  justice  and  international 
law,  disarmament,  and  the  need  to  combat  drug 
trafficking,  terrorism,  the  use  of  mercenaries,  piracy 
and other crimes.
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea wishes to stress 
that of all those problems none has been more destructive 
18 
12-52337
than underdevelopment, which the United Nations must 
not look upon with indifference. The annual victims of 
hunger and the diseases in the developing world exceed 
the number of victims of hostile confrontations recorded 
each year worldwide. The adverse effects of illiteracy, 
the  lack  of  housing,  and  malnutrition  experienced  in 
developing  countries  are  greater  than  those  caused 
by  natural  disasters.  In  our  times,  ignorance  and  the 
lack  of  scientific  and  technical  know-how  owing  to 
underdevelopment  are  more  detrimental  to  a  human 
being  than  terrorism  and  drug  addiction.  In  view  of 
all  those  adverse  circumstances,  we  propose  that  the 
Economic and Social Council adopt special programmes 
to  assist  the  least  developed  countries,  with  a  view  to 
their overcoming the lack of basic infrastructure which 
is hampering their development — programmes that the 
more developed countries should commit to supporting 
and that could serve as a basis for mutually beneficial 
cooperation among affected States.
We  cannot  imagine  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  in  a  society  subject  to  the  restrictions  of 
underdevelopment. From basic human dignity itself to 
all the other rights necessary for a dignified existence, 
including  physical  and  moral  integrity,  freedom  and, 
finally, well-being — these are what determine whether 
people  fully  enjoy  their  universally  recognized  rights. 
There  can  be  no  question  as  to  which  comes  first, 
human  rights  or  economic  development.  We  must 
recognize  that  human  rights  cannot  be  be  enjoyed  by 
people engulfed in underdevelopment.
With  respect  to  combating  underdevelopment, 
we  welcome  the  fact  that  Africa  has  already  begun 
promoting programmes for economic development and 
modern democratic systems, which are liberating their 
peoples from underdevelopment despite many obstacles 
that still obstruct progress and attempts at perpetuating 
new colonialist interests in Africa. Most of the internal 
conf licts in Africa are supported by foreign interests that 
try to ensure their continued presence in the continent. 
As the saying goes, “If the river runs backwards, it is 
the fishermen who win”.
We  ourselves  in  Equatorial  Guinea  are  very 
happy  with  the  progress  made  in  our  economic 
development  programme,  which  seeks  to  achieve 
an  emerging  economy  by  2020  through  the  use  of 
the  resources  provided  by  the  exploitation  of  oil  and 
natural  gas.  Thanks  to  those  resources,  we  are  more 
than  meeting  most  of  our  needs  in  infrastructure, 
including roads, hospitals, schools, vocational training 
A/67/PV.12
centres,  universities,  ports,  airports,  the  drinking 
water  supply,  telephone  communications,  air,  sea  and 
land  transportation,  urban  development,  housing  and 
electricity.  In  parallel  to  that  programme,  we  have 
adopted  radical  political  reforms,  appropriate  to  the 
rapid  development  that  the  country  is  experiencing, 
so  as  to  ensure  the  strictest  possible  control  of  the 
Government’s activity, to give greater freedoms to the 
people and to protect human rights to the utmost. Under 
those  reforms,  a  leader  may  not  remain  in  office  for 
more  than  two  terms.  Parliament  is  being  expanded 
for  a  more  universal  representation  of  the  people. 
Economic  and  social  decisions  are  to  be  taken  on  the 
basis of technical criteria and in the interests of society. 
The  President  must  by  law  be  assisted  by  an  advisory 
body.  The  independence  of  the judicial  and  legislative 
powers  is  being  strengthened.  A  body  to  monitor  and 
audit  public  and  private  economic  activity  is  being 
established.  Lastly,  an  authority  to  protect  and  ensure 
human rights is being set up. A transition Government 
has  been  formed  to  implement  those  reforms  within 
eight months.
My  Government  has  always  been  very  responsive 
to the issue of humanitarian assistance. In that regard, 
Equatorial  Guinea  proposes  the  establishment  of  a 
trust fund of the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the  United  Nations  (FAO)  for  food  security  in  Africa 
that  will  be  open  to  less  developed  countries.  From 
this  rostrum,  we  announce  an  initial  contribution  of 
$30  million.  We  call  on  African  countries  and  other 
donors  to  make  their  contributions  in  support  of  that 
initiative.
My  Government’s  humanitarian 
spirit  has 
always  aspired  to  setting  up  initiatives  that  support 
humankind’s development. Equatorial Guinea therefore 
established  the  Equatorial  Guinea  UNESCO  prize  to 
encourage  the  scientific  community  to  research  the 
possibility of finding life-saving cures, in particular for 
those  suffering  from  AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis. 
The Director-General of FAO agreed to the initiative to 
set up such a fund.
With  regard  to  the  other  important  items  on  our 
agenda,  we  understand  that  international  peace  and 
security essentially depend on respect for the principles 
of  international  law:  respect  for  the  independence, 
national  sovereignty  and 
integrity  of 
each  State;  the  sovereign  equality  of  nations  and 
non-interference 
internal  affairs  of  other 
States;  respect  for,  and  compliance  with,  international 
territorial 
in 
the 
12-52337
19
A/67/PV.12
commitments; and the promotion of mutually beneficial 
and  fair  friendship  and  cooperation  relations  among 
States.
Those  norms  are  the  basis  for  promoting  justice 
and  law  in  international  relations,  and  no  State  or 
group  of  States  should  step  forward  to  police  their 
implementation.  Such  an  act  usurps  the  authority  of 
the  United  Nations  and  undermines  its  effectiveness. 
The  United  Nations  should  impose  its  authority  at  the 
international level, avoiding any possible manipulation 
through  external  pressure  from  those  that  violate  the 
spirit of its principles.
Meanwhile, Equatorial Guinea endorses the wishes 
of the entire African continent to obtain a response to one 
of its legitimate demands, made on various occasions, 
namely,  Security  Council  reform  by  increasing  the 
number  of  Council  members  in  both  categories  and 
reserving  two  seats  as  permanent  members  and  five 
as  non-permanent  members  for  the  African  region. 
Democratic principles and the law are advocated at the 
United  Nations.  Africa  claims  its  rights,  including  in 
the  Security  Council.  Africa  wishes  to  participate  in 
the taking of decisions that affect its future.
With  the  assistance  of  all,  we  will  succeed  in 
adopting  appropriate  measures  to  reduce  the  tendency 
towards  unilateralism  and  hegemony  in  international 
relations.  We  will  succeed  in  mitigating  the  effects 
of  policies  that  threaten  the  peace  and  sovereignty 
of  States  and  that  oppose  the  economic  and  social 
development of peoples, thereby significantly violating 
the principles of international law.
With  regard  to  disarmament,  which  Equatorial 
Guinea  fully  supports  even  though  it  is  neither  a 
manufacturer  nor  a  consumer  of  any  sophisticated 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  we  believe  that  there 
should be no ambiguity on that issue. One cannot have 
the best of both worlds.
We  do  not  believe  there  to  be  a  threat  from  other 
planets  of  the  solar  system  or  other  bodies  in  outer 
space.  The  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  or  weapons 
of mass destruction is a disgrace to today’s humankind, 
which is preparing its own destruction. So who should 
arm  themselves  and  who  should  be  disarmed?  The 
end  of  the  Cold  War  was  supposed  to  also  mean  the 
end of the arms race. It is now time for humankind to 
build  its  own  future  instead  of  wasting  resources  on 
extermination plans.
Those 
to 
insensitive 
that  adopt  embargoes  against  certain 
Governments  should  not  be 
their 
repercussions  and  to  the  suffering  that  they  cause 
to  the  population,  in  particular  the  most  vulnerable 
sectors. Such measures run counter to the Millennium 
Development  Goals  adopted  by  the  United  Nations. 
Sanctions  and  embargoes,  whatever  their  real  nature, 
should  always  take  into  account  the  humanitarian 
component with regard to the people who are suffering. 
Therefore,  we  would  suggest  that  the  rights  of  the 
individual  be  given  priority  whenever  any  kind  of 
sanctions  are  adopted.  Accordingly,  we  appeal  for  the 
suspension of the embargo against Cuba.
We  will  return  to  Equatorial  Guinea  with  the 
sincere  hope  that  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly will be a milestone in the process of 
humanizing international relations.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Union of the Comoros.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ikililou 
Dhoinine, President of the Union of the Comoros, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Dhoinine  (spoke  in  French):  Allow  me, 
at the outset, to extend my warmest congratulations to 
His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Serbia,  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly. I should like to express to him 
the pleasure of the Union of the Comoros at seeing him 
preside  over  our  work  and  to  assure  him  of  the  full 
support of the Comorian delegation in discharging his 
noble task.
20 
12-52337
I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  former  Permanent 
Representative of the State of Qatar, who presided over 
the  General  Assembly  with  such  wisdom,  skill  and 
determination  and  who  was  successful  in  working  to 
strengthen its role.
Finally,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the 
vision with which he has led the Organization and for 
the worthy initiatives he has ceaselessly undertaken to 
promote respect for the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations, especially peacebuilding 
and stability for greater development.
As  was  the  case  last  year,  the  General  Assembly 
is  meeting  in  a  context  of  global  uncertainty.  It  is  a 
climate  marked  by  multifaceted  crises,  all  of  them 
major  challenges  for  our  institution.  It  is  meeting  at 
a  moment  when  one  of  the  Members  of  our  United 
Nations family, Syria, is being rent asunder by a steadily 
deterioraiting  fratricidal  war,  which  poses  a  serious 
threat  to  peace  both  for  the  region  and  for  the  world, 
due  to  that  country’s  strategic  geopolitical  position. 
The resignation of the Joint Special Envoy of the United 
Nations and the League of Arab States, former United 
Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, demonstrated, 
were  there  any  need  for  such,  the  complexity  of 
managing the Syrian conf lict. It therefore behoves us to 
act without delay to put an end to the terrible suffering 
of the brotherly Syrian people and to save what can be 
saved of its various infrastructures.
Just  as  important  is  the  Palestinian  cause.  For 
decades now, it has awaited a fair and lasting solution, 
one  found  through  our  shared  desire  to  establish 
together the solid foundations for a world of peace and 
prosperity. The Union of the Comoros reiterates its full 
support for the Palestinian people and associates itself 
with the formula of a Palestinian State as a full-f ledged 
member  of  the  community  of  nations,  living  side  by 
side and in perfect security with the State of Israel.
The  situation  in  northern  Mali  is  also  alarming. 
The attacks carried out against the civilian population 
of  the  region,  the  serious  violations  of  human  rights, 
the  obstacles  erected  to  humanitarian  access,  and 
the  destruction  and  looting  of  holy  places  and  other 
religious, historical and cultural sites are barbarous acts 
that are contrary to the principles of Islam. That is why 
my country supports the commitment of the Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States,  alongside  the 
A/67/PV.12
African Union and the United Nations, to put an end to 
those violations, which have gone on for much too long.
One  should  not,  however,  lose  sight  of  the  fact 
that  while  some  advocate  fanaticism  and  extremism, 
Islamophobia  is  also  taking  on  alarming  proportions. 
Indeed,  the  dissemination  of  the  video  Innocence  of 
Muslims  has  led  to  waves  of  indignation  and  many 
demonstrations  throughout  the  world.  Several  million 
believers have felt their faith insulted and harmed.
to 
and 
Islam,  Muslims 
However,  the  protests  against  the  unspeakable 
insults 
the  Prophet 
Muhammad — peace be upon him — cannot justify the 
violence  against  Western  missions  in  many  countries. 
My  country  therefore  condemns  the  terrorist  attacks 
that  in  Benghazi,  Libya,  caused  the  death  of  the 
American  Ambassador,  Chris  Stevens,  and  a  number 
of  his  colleagues.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
to the American people and to the grieving families of 
the victims the most heartfelt condolences of the people 
and the Government of the Comoros.
The ongoing existence of many hotbeds of tension 
throughout  the  world,  the  violation  of  fundamental 
human  rights,  and  the  growth  of  piracy  and  terrorism 
all speak to the need for urgent and in-depth reform of 
the  Security  Council.  My  country  therefore  reiterates 
its  support  for  the  African  Union’s  position  regarding 
the need to reform the Council for better representation 
of 
international  community  and  for  greater 
effectiveness  in  the  settlement  and  management  of 
conf licts.
the 
A  few  decades  ago,  my  country  resolutely 
committed  itself  to  the  path  of  democracy.  It  wishes 
to  make  its  contribution  to  the  promotion  of  a  world 
of  peace,  security,  justice  and  fairness.  That  is  why 
I  have  committed  myself,  since  my  accession  to  the 
presidency, to spare no effort in promoting the rule of 
law and good governance in the Union of the Comoros. 
Above  and  beyond  the  setting  up  of  all  institutions 
provided  for  under  our  Constitution,  including  the 
Supreme  Court,  I  have  given  major  priority  to  the 
fight  against  corruption.  An  anti-corruption  law  has 
already  been  promulgated,  and  a  national  commission 
to combat and prevent corruption has now been set up 
and made operational. I thank the European Union for 
its assistance and expertise in this area, which enabled 
us to develop the document for our national strategy to 
combat corruption.
12-52337
21
A/67/PV.12
This  year  once  again,  the  global  economic  and 
financial crisis is at the heart of the Assembly’s general 
debate.  That  crisis  has  made  evident  the  urgent  need 
for a global form of economic governance based on the 
values  of  responsibility,  fairness  and  solidarity.  It  has 
also  placed  before  the  eyes  of  the  world  the  urgency 
of  an  in-depth  reform  of  the  international  financial 
institutions.
The  repercussions  of  the  crisis  are  becoming 
increasingly  palpable,  particularly 
in  developing 
countries,  where  the  rising  price  of  staples  threatens 
peace  and  stability.  The  crisis  has  also  intensified 
problems 
to  energy,  which  powers  all 
socioeconomic  development,  limiting  our  ability  to 
promote development through investments.
linked 
Climate  change  is  another  major  challenge  our 
countries  face.  We  must  respond  effectively  to  that 
phenomenon, which affects the entire planet, especially 
small island developing States such as the Union of the 
Comoros.
I  wish  to  stress  that  last  April  my  country 
experienced  two  weeks  of  unusually  violent  torrential 
rains  that  hammered  our  islands,  causing  damage  that 
had disastrous consequences for our population and the 
national  economy.  Ten  per  cent  of  the  population  was 
affected,  a  high  percentage  for  a  country  as  sparsely 
populated  as  the  Comoros.  In  the  name  of  the  whole 
Comorian  people  and  of  my  Government,  I  would 
therefore like to thank all the partners and friends who 
offered  us  urgent  humanitarian  aid  to  help  us  address 
that dramatic situation.
The  unprecedented  storms  led  my  Government 
to  draw  up  a  rapid  recovery  plan,  with  the  aid  and 
support  of  the  international  community.  It  will  enable 
us to better help those affected and to restore destroyed 
infrastructure throughout our territory. That plan, which 
contains  procedures  aimed  at  restoring  the  situation 
within  a  period  of  six  to  12  months,  was  launched  at 
a  round  table  held  on  5  September  in  Pretoria,  with 
the  fraternal  support  of  our  friendly  brother  country, 
the Republic of South Africa. I would therefore like to 
appeal  to  all  here  to  help  finance  the  rapid  recovery 
plan,  whose  cost  has  been  estimated  at  $18  million. 
That  will  allow  my  country  to  better  face  the  current 
situation and to better prepare for the future.
The  time  has  come  to  relaunch  with  greater 
determination a number of pending international issues, 
in  particular  those  regarding  measures  to  mitigate  or 
adapt  to  climate  change  and  to  make  operational  the 
Copenhagen  Climate  Fund.  We  need  to  honour  the 
commitments  made  to  the  countries  of  the  South  by 
implementing,  inter  alia,  the  agreements  on  emissions 
linked to deforestation and forest degradation, as well 
as  a  comprehensive  agreement  on  climate  change.  We 
must  also  respect  the  Kyoto  Protocol  on  the  reduction 
of  greenhouses  gases  within  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. Finally, we must do our utmost to achieve the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Faced with all those equally important challenges, 
I urgently call on the most developed countries to apply 
to the most fragile countries the same mechanisms that 
have  been  implemented  to  reduce  the  impact  of  the 
crisis  in  Europe,  in  order  to  prevent  more  unfortunate 
consequences,  knowing  that  our  countries  depend  on 
the financial contributions of our people abroad. In that 
context,  my  country,  which  is  currently  a  beneficiary 
of  the  Extended  Credit  Facility  of  the  International 
Monetary  Fund,  hopes  by  December  to  have  reached 
the  completion  point  of  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries  Initiative.  In  other  words,  the  new  world 
economic  order,  based  on  the  shared  principles  of 
fairness,  transparency  and  prosperity  that  we  have 
willingly embraced, requires a real and dynamic easing 
of the crisis that has struck the world. Africa impatiently 
awaits the advent of that new order to realize economic 
and social integration and to embark resolutely on the 
path of sustainable development.
In  conclusion,  with  respect 
to  my  country’s 
stability,  before  the  General  Assembly,  I  once  again 
appeal  to  France  that  a  frank  and  sincere  dialogue 
finally be set up between our two closely linked nations 
on  the  question  of  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte.  It 
has grown increasingly clear that the fact that Mayotte 
remains under French administration constitutes a threat 
to  the  peace  and  stability  of  the  three  other  Comorian 
islands  —  the  peace  that  remains  the  foundation  of 
freedom and prosperity.
It is true, and a secret to no one, that that island has 
always served as a rear guard for the detractors of the 
Comoros, those who would prefer not to see our country 
move forward despite its great potential. Moreover, the 
year 2012, now drawing to a close, proved particularly 
dramatic  for  my  people.  Men,  women  and  children 
aboard f limsy boats known as kwassa kwassa perished 
in the narrow waters that separate the Comorian islands 
of Anjouan and Mayotte because of the visas that France 
22 
12-52337
imposed on the Comorians of the other islands. Surely 
that painful, unacceptable situation, which has lasted for 
decades, cannot fail to move this worldwide Assembly, 
whose  chosen  theme  for  this  year  is  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means”, including the rule of law 
at the national and international levels.
I  therefore  hope  that  France  will  honour  its 
commitments  as  a  country  that  respects  international 
law.  Finally,  I  hope  it  will  respond  positively  to  our 
urgent  call  so  that  together  we  may  find  a  positive 
way  for  Mayotte  to  return  to  its  natural  home,  which 
remains the Union of the Comoros. That is how to put 
an  end  to  the  humanitarian  tragedy  and  to  guarantee 
lasting stability for my country. It is through a definitive 
solution to this conf lict, which has lasted far too long, 
that  France  can  contribute  to  the  ongoing  efforts  to 
enhance regional integration, and thus to safeguard the 
interests of this region of the Indian Ocean that we hope 
to build together in stability and peace.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Union  of  the  Comoros  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee, Crown 
Prince of Brunei Darussalam
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Crown 
Prince of Brunei Darussalam.
Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee, Crown Prince of Brunei 
Darussalam, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Royal  Highness 
Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee,  Crown  Prince  of  Brunei 
Darussalam,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee  (Brunei  Darussalam): 
On  behalf  of  His  Majesty  the  Sultan  and  the  people 
of  Brunei  Darussalam,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
our  new  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
A/67/PV.12
on  his  election  and  to  wish  him  much  success  in  the 
coming year. We also wish to express our appreciation 
to  the  outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for  his  dedication  to  the  work 
of  the  Organization.  We  especially  thank  him  for  his 
efforts  to  encourage  us  all  to  meet  successfully  the 
considerable challenges now being posed by life in the 
twenty-first century.
At  the  same  time,  we  would  also  like  to  thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  constant 
willingness  to  apply  the  core  values  of  the  United 
Nations  directly  whenever  he  has  been  asked  to  act 
on  our  behalf.  We  particularly  welcome  the  five-year 
Action  Agenda  he  has  set  out  and  the  common  vision 
it offers us. At its heart, the vision is one of tolerance, 
respect and understanding among nations.
Sadly, over the past two weeks, we have witnessed 
events that present a very different vision. In considering 
them,  Brunei  Darussalam  has  stated  its  unreserved 
condemnation of their cause. We have equally strongly 
advised  all  our  people  of  our  Government’s  absolute 
rejection of the violence and extremism that have been 
their result. Here at the United Nations, we congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  his  statement  about  the 
matter. In doing so, we reaffirm our commitment to the 
universal values of tolerance and respect. Similarly, we 
uphold  the  institutions,  structures  and  due  processes 
of  international  affairs  that  this  great  Organization 
embodies.
Turning  now  to  the  theme  for  this  year’s  general 
debate  —  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means” — for me the key word is “adjustment”. I think 
it is well chosen. It suggests change that is carefully and 
gradually done. It does not invite confrontation. For us 
in  Brunei  Darussalam,  it  matches  the  main  purpose 
of this annual meeting. We see it as an opportunity to 
express  our  satisfaction  and  our  concern  about  how 
successfully the United Nations is managing the process 
of globalization that we have nationally embraced.
In  other  words,  are  we  satisfied  with  things  as 
they  are;  or  do  we  see  a  need  for  some  adjustment? 
In  answering  that  question,  we  would  like  to  start  by 
expressing considerable satisfaction with many aspects 
of  the  Organization’s  work.  The  media  constantly 
headline the supposed defects, failures and setbacks of 
the United Nations. But beneath all of that we observe 
the  enormous  contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to 
12-52337
23
A/67/PV.12
the  welfare  of  future  generations.  I  would  therefore 
like  to  express  our  deep  satisfaction  with  the  work  of 
United  Nations  agencies  and  international  bodies.  We 
believe  they  are  providing  us  with  the  opportunity 
to  move  out  of  nineteenth-century  colonialism  and 
twentieth-century  national  interests.  In  the  spirit  of 
our theme here, they are helping us to adjust to twenty-
first  century  regionalism  and  eventually,  we  hope,  to 
successful globalism.
Success  in  those  three  areas  means  that  our 
children  and  grandchildren  will  live  in  a  world  where 
ordinary people and their families have a real chance to 
live together in hope and confidence. That is the reason 
for our satisfaction with the work of the United Nations 
as  a  global  Organization.  In  other  words,  in  terms  of 
the  fundamental  work  of  the  United  Nations,  we  see 
no need to undertake what our theme here describes as 
adjustment.
I  would  therefore  like  to  suggest  three  particular 
areas we find especially important. In each, we believe 
that  the  United  Nations  is  helping  to  create  a  world 
in  which  the  people  it  represents  can  look  to  a  better 
future — one of hope rather than anguish, confidence 
instead of fear, and trust in the place of despair.
The first area is the difficult long-term work being 
done  on  sustainable  development.  We  were  impressed 
by  the  results  of  the  Rio  de  Janeiro  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  was 
held in June and built on 20 years of effort. Sustainable 
development  is  now  far  more  than  an  academic  topic; 
it  is  firmly  part  of  the  United  Nations  long-term 
development agenda. Work has moved from theory into 
many practical ideas, projects and activities.
The  second  area  is  covered  in  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme’s  Millennium  Development 
Goals  Report  2012. We  especially  noted  the  following 
statements  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  foreword. 
The  target  of  reducing  extreme  poverty  by  half  has 
been  reached  five  years  ahead  of  the  2015  deadline. 
The target has been achieved on halving the proportion 
of  people  who  lack  dependable  access  to  improved 
sources  of  drinking  water.  The  conditions  for  more 
than  200  million  people  living  in  slums  have  been 
greatly  improved.  The  primary  school  enrolment  of 
girls  has  equalled  that  of  boys.  There  is  accelerating 
progress in reducing child and maternal mortality. We 
are  especially  encouraged  by  his  conclusion  that  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 
2015 is challenging but possible.
The third area is the sum of the ongoing efforts of 
United  Nations  agencies  such  as  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  UNICEF  and  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization,  which  are  operating  in 
almost 150 countries. Their work is both wide-ranging 
and specific in its emphasis upon the basic components 
of everyday life for the people we represent.
Rather, it is in the structure of the Organization that 
we see a need for some things to be adjusted. The reason 
appears  clear  to  many  of  those  of  us  who  are  small 
both  physically  and  politically.  The  current  structure 
appears far too often to be the deep-seated cause of the 
headline  news  I  referred  to.  We  see  it  as  a  twentieth-
century  structure  designed  to  meet  twentieth-century 
realities.  It  is  personified  in  the  64  years  of  suffering 
by  the  ordinary  people  of  Palestine,  and  in  all  other 
desperate situations in which the root causes of conf lict 
and confrontation are still buried in the past century.
Simply  put,  that  must  change.  In  our  globalized 
world,  we  are  all  equally  interdependent  and  equally 
responsible.  But,  like  many  other  members  in  the 
Assembly, we believe that the current structure does not 
truly ref lect those realities. As such, it needs adjusting 
so that ancient political fault lines are repaired.
The form we hope it will increasingly take should 
resemble  that  of  some  regions  today  that  operate  on 
the  basis  of  consensus,  rather  than  compromise  and 
confrontation.  That  is  what  we  have  accepted  in  our 
own  region  of  South-East  Asia.  It  is  the  spirit  behind 
the  present  focus  of  the  Association  of  South-East 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  on  building  a  peaceful  and 
mutually  respectful  community  of  nations,  regardless 
of  background,  economic 
resources  or  national 
preoccupations.
That  is  why  we  greatly  appreciate  the  strong 
support and goodwill that is constantly shown us by our 
many  partners  from  outside  the  region.  It  is  also  why 
we  in  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  smallest  of  all  Member 
nations,  feel  honoured  and  privileged  to  assume  the 
chairmanship  of  ASEAN  next  year.  That  organization 
is  an  association  of  neighbours  that  have  deliberately 
chosen  to  adjust  their  region’s  previous  identity.  Until 
45 years ago, ours was one of the most unstable regions 
on Earth, a confrontation point for the national interests 
of great Powers and a focal point of the Cold War.
24 
12-52337
Now, our region has adjusted, and is determined to 
operate in the interests of its community of 600 million 
citizens.  It  will  continue  to  do  so  not  by  conf lict  or 
confrontation  and  not  by  compromising  national 
values, but by peaceful consensus. In the same way, we 
hope  that  the  structure  of  the  United  Nations  can  be 
gradually and carefully adjusted.
Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee, Crown Prince of Brunei 
Darussalam, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Portia Simpson Miller, Prime 
Minister of Defence, Development, Information 
and Sports of Jamaica 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Development, 
Information and Sports of Jamaica. 
Ms. Portia Simpson Miller, Prime Minister, Minister 
of  Defence, Development, Information and Sports 
of Jamaica, was escorted to the rostrum.
Ms.  Simpson  Miller  (Jamaica):  Allow  me  to 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. I assure him of the full support and cooperation 
of the Jamaican delegation. I would also like to place on 
record  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his  invaluable 
guidance of the work of the Assembly during its sixty-
sixth  session.  I  also  thank  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  the  staff  of  the  Secretariat  for 
their  dedication  and  hard  work  in  serving  Member 
States.
There  is  a  tale  of  a  young  woman  from  a  rural 
village  in  Jamaica  who  was  approached  by  a  political 
candidate  seeking  to  represent  her  community.  “What 
is  it  you  want  most  from  your  representatives?”  the 
candidate  asked.  The  young  woman  considered  the 
question  for  a  moment.  Slowly  and  thoughtfully  she 
replied,  “All  I  want  is  an  opportunity.  I  want  you  to 
provide me and my family with a living environment in 
which I can work, contribute and prosper. Most of all, I 
want you to provide for my family an environment that 
is safe and secure”.
For hundreds of years, our respective peoples have 
looked  to  their  leaders  with  great  expectations.  They 
elected Governments that they felt could provide them 
with  the  greatest  sense  of  well-being  and  security. 
A/67/PV.12
Historically  and  to  the  present  day,  they  looked  to 
heads  of  State  and  Government  to  provide  them, 
their  families,  their  communities  and  ultimately  their 
respective  nations  with  leadership  and  direction  that 
foster  that  all-important  sense  of  well-being  and  of 
feeling  secure.  Over  time,  across  the  world,  there  has 
been  an  increasing  sense  of  impatience  and  agitation 
born of a sense of growing global insecurity.
its  focus 
to  address 
Accordingly, 
the  United  Nations  agenda  has 
expanded 
the  multifaceted 
challenges  of  food  security,  climate  change,  global 
pandemics  and  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis. We have already witnessed citizens from several 
nations  spring  into  action  with  demands  for  change. 
Others chose to occupy various spaces in protest. In the 
light of that reality, many of those here — indeed, many 
of us as leaders — stand as buffers between apathy and 
anarchy. 
about 
adjustment  or 
The theme for this year’s session of the Assembly, 
settlement  of 
“Bringing 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, 
is most appropriate and timely, given current events in 
a number of countries and regions that pose a threat to 
international peace and security. It ref lects the call by 
that young woman, who simply asked her representative 
to provide for her and hers an environment that is safe 
and secure. Yet her request is not as simple as it appears.
The  insecurity,  impatience  and  unease  that  have 
emerged  worldwide  are  explosive  accelerants.  They 
emerge from the heartbreaking scourge of poverty that 
was  so  aptly  described  by  the  Jamaican  national  hero, 
Marcus Mosiah Garvey, who reminded us that poverty 
is 
“a hellish state to be in. It is no virtue. It is a crime. 
To  be  poor  is  to  be  hungry  without  possible  hope 
of food; to be sick without hope of medicine; to be 
tired and sleepy without a place to lay one’s head; 
to  be  naked  without  the  hope  of  clothing;  to  be 
despised and comfortless”.
We must seek to rid ourselves of the conditions that 
lead  to  poverty.  We  must  pursue  social  and  economic 
policies  that  will  ensure  social  equity  and  justice  for 
our  people  and  increase  their  well-being  and  sense  of 
security.  That  can  be  achieved  only  if  we,  as  Member 
States,  work  together  in  good  faith  to  secure  the 
sustainable  future  we  agreed  to  at  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Let 
us create the future we want, and let us put our people 
first.
12-52337
25
A/67/PV.12
The  global  economy  continues  to  be  beset  by 
uncertainty.  That  is  compounded  by  the  lingering 
negative  effects  of  the  financial  and  economic  crises. 
The  global  shocks  have  affected  all  our  peoples. 
They  threaten  our  communities,  weaken  our  families 
and  challenge  individuals  everywhere,  regardless  of 
hemisphere or region or whether they live in so-called 
developed or developing countries or in the north, south, 
east or west. Some have fewer options than others. That 
is a vicious circle of insecurity.
We  must  not  forget  that  a  significant  proportion 
of  the  world’s  poorest  citizens  live  in  middle-income 
countries.  That  diverse  group  includes  both  large 
developing  economies  and  small  island  developing 
States, such as those in the Caribbean. Many of us face 
common  challenges.  Several  are  highly  indebted  and 
extremely  vulnerable  to  external  shocks  and  natural 
disasters. We face significant obstacles in our efforts to 
spur economic recovery and growth. We are hampered 
by  the  volatility  of  energy  and  food  prices,  decreases 
in export commodity prices, and weak capital inf lows. 
Increasing food prices create untold hardships for many 
of  our  people,  particularly  the  most  vulnerable  in  our 
societies. Small countries need greater support in order 
to  build  resilience  to  economic  and  environmental 
shocks.
I come to the Assembly today from such a nation. 
Jamaica  is  a  nation  small  in  size  but  enormous  in 
spirit  —  a  nation  with  a  people  whose  speed  defies 
the  laws  of  physics,  whose  musical  messages  have 
inspired  positive  and  revolutionary  global  change  and 
whose minds have given the world myriad solutions in 
areas that include science, law and medicine. Yet many 
nations like Jamaica have great possibility and potential 
that  are  not  ref lected  in,  or  ref lective  of,  their current 
economic indicators.
in 
global 
Reforms 
economic 
governance, 
including  of  the  international  financial  institutions, 
are  required  in  order  to  take  into  account  the  need 
of  small  and  vulnerable  economies  for  special  and 
differential  treatment.  Refocusing  financial  f lows  in 
the  development  agenda  will  also  go  a  long  way  in 
helping  to  bolster  our  natural  resilience  and  resolve. 
We commend the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development on the work it has done over the last 
48 years to advance the trade and development agenda 
and assist developing countries. There is still much to 
be done, and we look forward to working with the full 
range of development partners.
Women  and  children  make  up  one  particularly 
vulnerable  group  of  our  world.  What  we  call  external 
shocks cause real and serious dislocation in their daily 
lives. Too many mothers have to face tough choices to 
meet their basic needs. Too many children are subjected 
to  violence  and  abuse.  Children,  especially  girls,  are 
being  used  as  pawns  for  economic  gain,  including 
through human trafficking and other exploitive actions. 
Human  trafficking  is  a  dastardly  threat  to  the  welfare 
of our women, girls and boys. Our ancestors fought for 
our  freedom.  It  is  disgraceful  that  at  this  juncture  of 
world  history  we  should  see  the  emergence  of  a  form 
of  modern-day  slavery  that  allows  women,  girls  and 
boys  to  be  traded  as  chattel.  Many  vulnerable  young 
women  are  deceived  and  lured  away  by  attractive 
offers  to  get  them  and  their  families  out  of  poverty. 
They  then  find  themselves  in  a  strange  land,  with  no 
support,  no  identity  and  no  hope  of  returning  home; 
sold into modern-day slavery, their very bodies used as 
a currency of exchange.
is 
in 
resolute 
Jamaica 
its  commitment 
local  and  national  programmes 
to 
strengthening 
to 
eliminate violence against women and children. At the 
same time, I call on the international community to take 
bold  action  to  address  this  scourge.  Issues  that  affect 
women and children must be central to decision-making 
processes. We look forward to continued collaboration 
with  UN-Women  and  the  international  community  to 
help break this cycle of exploitation and insecurity.
The  devastating 
impact  of  HIV/AIDS  and 
non-communicable  diseases  also  propels  the  cycle 
of  global  insecurity.  Jamaica  is  cognizant  of  the 
considerable investment that the United Nations and the 
international community have made in the fight against 
HIV/AIDS.  That  support  has  allowed  developing 
countries,  including  Jamaica,  to  make  a  difference  in 
the  lives  of  those  affected.  Nevertheless,  inadequate 
human and financial resources constrain our ability to 
scale up testing and treatment, as well as to implement 
programmes for increasing awareness and reducing the 
risk of new infections.
The developing world and lower-income populations 
are  hardest  hit  by  the  impact  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs).  The  high  social  and  developmental 
costs  of  NCDs  demand  concerted  policy  action  at  the 
national  and  international  levels.  We  must  implement 
the outcomes of the High-level Meeting on NCDs held 
last year.
26 
12-52337
We  are  on  the  threshold  of  2015,  the  target  date 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  The  results  thus  far  have  been  uneven.  We 
need  to  reinvigorate  Millennium  Development  Goal 
8,  the  Global  Partnership  for  Development.  I  wish 
to  underscore 
the  situation  associated  with  our 
middle-income country status. Country categorizations 
should  not  serve  as  obstacles  to  delivering  support  to 
the world’s poorest and most vulnerable. We urge that 
middle-income countries not be pushed to the margins of 
the development agenda, nor be put on the fringe of the 
development  assistance  provided  by  the  international 
community. A review of the factors used by the relevant 
multilateral  agencies  in  measuring  a  country’s  wealth 
is urgently needed. We are supportive of the proposals 
put  forward  by  the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  for  an  alternative  but 
complementary  approach  to  the  criterion  of  per  capita 
income in the allocation of financing for development.
I  now  turn  to  global  political  developments.  The 
cycle  of  insecurity  transcends  borders.  Recent  events 
have  called  attention  to  the  fragility  of  peace  and 
security in many parts of the globe, and underscore the 
importance  of  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  democracy 
and good governance. Jamaica reiterates its adherence 
to  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
multilateralism  and  the  inviolability  of  diplomatic 
institutions  in  the  conduct  of  relations  among  States. 
We will continue to add our voice to the ongoing work 
at  the  United  Nations  to  secure  human  rights,  justice, 
social equity and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Transnational  crime,  narco-trafficking  and  the 
illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  ammunition  are  major 
components  of  the  cycle  of  insecurity.  They  continue 
to  endanger  lives,  undermine  the  rule  of  law  and 
fuel  violent  crime.  We  remain  resolute  in  our  call  for 
encouraging partnerships in fighting this scourge, and 
will continue to work with all delegations to achieve a 
comprehensive and robust arms trade treaty.
The  conf lict  in  Syria  poses  a  real  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  We  are  deeply 
concerned  at  the  escalating  internal  violence  and  the 
resulting  loss  of  life.  It  is  our  conviction  that  this 
conf lict  can  still  be  resolved  through  political  and 
diplomatic means.
We  continue  to  urge  the  leaders  of  Israel  and  the 
Palestinian Authority to resume negotiations as early as 
possible,  based  on  the  two-State  solution  and  relevant 
A/67/PV.12
United  Nations  resolutions.  Those  resolutions  address 
Israel’s  right  to  exist  within  secure  borders,  as  well 
as  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination and statehood.
We  must  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  remains 
relevant  to  its  membership  through  a  process  of 
reform  of  its  organs,  including  the  Security  Council. 
Negotiations  should  proceed  urgently 
towards  a 
satisfactory conclusion.
More 
than 
two  years  after 
the  devastating 
earthquake,  Haiti’s  plight  remains  deeply  troubling. 
We  are  concerned  that  only  a  disappointing  fraction 
of  the  pledges  made  have  been  disbursed,  and  yet  the 
humanitarian  situation  in  Haiti  is  perilous.  As  a  close 
friend and neighbour of Haiti, with strong historical ties, 
I encourage members of the international community to 
make good on their commitments. The Haitian people 
need our continued support.
The  long-standing  trade  and  economic  embargo 
against  Cuba,  another  close  neighbour  and  friend  of 
Jamaica, has had severe negative effects on its growth 
and development. Jamaica reiterates its call for an end 
to  the  embargo  against  Cuba  and  the  extraterritorial 
measures aimed at extending its reach to include third 
countries.
Jamaica  continues  to  work  with  our  partners  to 
erect  a  memorial  at  the  United  Nations  to  honour  the 
victims  of  slavery  and  the  trans-Atlantic  slave  trade. 
We are grateful for the generous contributions received 
to date to erect the permanent memorial, and reiterate 
the call for continued financial support.
Fifty  years  ago,  upon  gaining  our  independence, 
Jamaica  committed  itself  to  the  aims  of  the  United 
Nations  and  fully  accepted  the  responsibilities  of 
membership.  Our  national  pledge  commits  each  and 
every  Jamaican  to  stand  up  for  justice,  brotherhood 
and peace and to play our part in advancing the welfare 
of the whole human race. We will not resile from that 
commitment.
Let  us  work  together  to  end  the  cycle  of  global 
insecurity. Let us provide an opportunity for every man, 
woman  and  child  to  fulfil  their  God-given  potential.  I 
leave  members  with  the  words  of  Robert  Nesta  “Bob” 
Marley, who sang: “One love, one heart”. I hope that the 
peoples of the world will one day live together in peace, 
love, security, unity and prosperity.
12-52337
27
A/67/PV.12
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Jamaica for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Portia  Simpson  Miller,  Prime  Minister  of 
Jamaica  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Development, 
Information  and  Sports,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Jorge Carlos De Almeida Fonseca, 
President of the Republic of Cape Verde
The  Acting  President:  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Cape Verde.
Mr.  Jorge  Carlos  De  Almeida  Fonseca,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Jorge Carlos 
De Almeida Fonseca, President of the Republic of Cape 
Verde, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Fonseca  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
text provided by the delegation): I convey my greetings 
to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić, whom I congratulate on his election. I wish him 
success  during  his  tenure  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like 
to  convey  my  greetings  to  the  former  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  for  the 
excellent work he accomplished during his tenure.
Also  allow  me  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  competent 
management  of  the  Organization.  We  reaffirm  our 
trust  in  his  leadership  during  a  particularly  difficult 
time in our history — during one of the worst financial 
crises  that  the  world  has  ever  known  that  has  had 
repercussions  in  the  economic,  social,  political,  food, 
energy and environmental sectors, to say nothing of the 
terrible threats to  peace and security emanating from 
every corner of the world.
As  a  small  island  State,  with  a  shortage  of 
resources  and  with  only  37  years  of  independence, 
Cape  Verde  is  proud  to  be  a  democratic  country  that 
is  based  on  the  rule  of  law,  built  with  the  suffering 
and  the  determination  of  Cape  Verdeans  inside  and 
outside  our  country.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  my 
country  faces  enormous  difficulties  in  ensuring  its 
own existence and that to overcome them will require 
international solidarity, I believe that Cape Verde can, 
although modestly, contribute towards finding solutions 
to important problems that threaten the troubled world 
of our time.
Apart 
from 
the  political  stability 
that  has 
characterized us as well as the build-up and consolidation 
of  a  democratic  system,  the  Cape  Verdean  nation  that 
preceded  the  creation  of  the  State  can  be  considered 
an  example  of  peaceful  coexistence  among  peoples 
who originated from different countries, with different 
creeds  integrated  into  what  had  already  been  a  mixed 
sculture. Our nation stands open to the world and to the 
exchange of values.
Cape Verde has opted for a policy for peace, dialogue 
and  understanding  in  the  resolution  of  conf licts.  The 
expression of those values is part of the Cape Verdean 
people’s  way  of  living  and  being.  Ours  is  a  culture  of 
tolerance  that  has  shaped,  in  the  almost  four  decades 
of its history, the values and principles of the country’s 
policies. Besides our modest political contribution to the 
resolution of conf licts in Southern Africa, for example, 
the end of apartheid in South Africa, the independence 
of Namibia and peace in Angola, I would assert that our 
biggest contribution has been our way of life as a people 
and as a culture. Through our way of life, we have been 
able  to  show  that  tolerance  and  the  sharing  of  values 
can be part of daily living, even in adverse conditions. 
Our  way  of  life  has  allowed  successive  Cape  Verdean 
Governments and heads of State to manage the foreign 
policy  of  our  country  in  a  consistent  manner,  giving 
priority  to  peace,  justice  and  the  peaceful  coexistence 
of people in the formulation of policy. Accordingly, our 
foreign  policy  is  the  expression  or  translation  of  our 
culture  and  our  ideology.  That  is  also  what  guides me 
as I strive to broaden Cape Verde’s contribution to our 
continent and, hopefully, to the world. 
On  25  September,  we  celebrated  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Republic of Cape Verde, which is proof of the stability 
we  enjoy  in  our  country.  It  has  allowed  numerous 
presidential, legislative and municipal elections to take 
place,  and  changes  in  power  have  occurred  with  the 
highest degree of normality. By happy coincidence, that 
critical date for Cape Verde — 25 September — coincides 
with  the  launch  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General  Assembly, 
that  exponent  of  democracy 
on  a  global  level  which  is  undergoing  a  process  of 
28 
12-52337
revitalization. As such, I am very grateful to be able to 
share our milestone with General Assembly.
The Magna Law stipulates that our domestic legal 
order  incorporates  the  precedents  and  standards  of 
international  common  law  and  the  law  of  treaties  as 
lawfully  approved  and  ratified.  It  is  thus  clear  that 
we  attach  great  importance  to  institutions  like  the 
United  Nations  and  the  principles  that  guide  them. 
Nevertheless,  we  are  aware  that  if  those  principles, 
which we have embedded in our Constitution, including 
those  referring  to  human  rights,  do  not  trickle  down 
into  our  day-to-day  culture,  the  Constitution  will  not 
be  fulfilled  in  its  entirety.  We  therefore  urge  all  Cape 
Verdeans, be they in the country or outside, to further 
internalize  the  values  of  our  Constitution,  which  we 
consider a critical step in ensuring its vitality and full 
realization.
Despite  the  serious  issues  arising  in  the  world 
and  the  vulnerabilities  of  the  Cape  Verdean  economy 
and  its  direct  impact  on  the  living  conditions  of  the 
majority of its people, I must say without false modesty 
that  I  am  proud  of  the  trajectory  that  my  country  has 
followed since its independence. At independence, our 
annual  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  was  $190  per 
capita, whereas today it has grown to $3,295 per capita 
per  annum.  Several  social  indices  have  mirrored  that 
growth,  making  it  possible  for  us  to  achieve  some  of 
the Millennium Development Goals. In fact, the human 
development, economic and financial results registered 
in  the  biennium  2011-2012  received  positive  reviews 
from the major international financial institutions.
Ours  is  a  service  economy  —  with  services 
accounting for 80 per cent of GDP in 2010 — with a very 
small market and an agricultural sector that is struggling 
with  desertification  and  drought.  We  therefore  cannot 
ignore  our  great  vulnerabilities  or  rest  on  our  laurels 
for  having  graduated  to  a  medium-income  developed 
country.  On  the  contrary,  we  cannot  lose  sight  of  the 
fact  that  our  economy  is  still  very  dependent,  that  it 
cannot  employ  a  significant  portion  of  its  potential 
workforce,  with  all  the  social  consequences  that  stem 
from that. We are therefore obliged to continue to rely 
on international solidarity.
We  of  course  will  continue  to  use  our  meagre 
resources  in  an  efficient  and  rational  manner  and 
develop even more effective efforts to combat poverty, 
social  exclusion  and  unemployment,  which  in  2010 
reached an overall rate of 21 per cent, and 50 per cent 
A/67/PV.12
among youth. Constraints with respect to energy, water 
and  sanitation  continue  to  garner  our  full  attention  so 
that, as we build key infrastructure, we can create the 
conditions needed to achieve sustainable growth in our 
economy.
We  also  must  take  into  account  the  fact  that  the 
impact  on  small  island  developing  States  of  climate 
change  and  natural  disasters  is  a  sword  of  Damocles 
threatening our future. It is imperative that all countries, 
acting  consistently  and  with  solidarity,  implement 
environmental defence programmes, develop the green 
economy and help build true global resilience. 
One  of  the  most  remarkable  characteristics  of 
today’s  world  is  the  increasing  interdependence  of 
all  sectors.  We  may  speak  frequently  of  the  economy, 
but  that  is  because  it  conditions  all  the  rest  —  the 
environmental,  health,  security,  political  and  cultural 
sectors,  indeed,  nearly  all  areas  of  human  activity.  It 
is  therefore  fundamental  for  us  to  constantly  monitor 
all  relevant  aspects  of  those  complex  relationships  so 
that  we  can  understand  the  leading  trends  that  have 
an  impact  on  our  process  of  development,  but  also  so 
that  we  can  contribute  even  modestly  to  solving  the 
problems of people and countries across the globe. 
Although social and political stability are essential 
aspects  of  our  society,  we  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that 
on  our  continent,  Africa,  that  has  not  been  a  basic 
characteristic for internal and, to some extent, external 
reasons.
I express my deep concern about the economic and 
financial global crisis that continues to severely punish 
the  Governments  and  defenceless  populations  of  the 
African  continent.  Those  people  are  already  suffering 
from  hunger,  the  scourge  of  AIDS,  the  consequences 
of  other  endemic  diseases,  the  f light  of  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  displaced  people  and  the  overwhelming 
environmental  degradation  to  which  the  continent 
is  victim.  Despite  the  fact  that  the  continent  least 
contributed  to  that  imbalance,  it  is  Africa  that  most 
suffers from its consequences.
Such  crises  also  affect  security  not  only  because 
of  regional  conf licts  but  also  owing  to  the  universal 
dimension that terrorism has assumed. In that regard, it 
has affected a good part of our continent with its links 
to  trafficking  in  drugs  and  persons,  maritime  piracy, 
religious  intolerance  and  the  problems  that  arise  from 
the  political,  social  or  military  instability  prevailing 
in  many  of  our  countries.  That  is  fertile  territory  for 
12-52337
29
A/67/PV.12
terrorism  and  its  growth.  The  recent  cases  of  Mali, 
Guinea-Bissau and others, such as the Sudan, Somalia, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  some 
countries of the Maghreb, well illustrate the situation. 
The  international  community  has  every  interest  in 
resolutely focusing on the fight to eradicate such ills.
Despite those constraints, it should be acknowledged 
that the new wave of African leaders has been doing a 
great deal for the continent’s progress. The international 
community  must  therefore  help  such  countries  to  find 
appropriate  solutions  to  the  situations  that  they  face, 
without  interfering  or  acting  in  the  interests  of  others 
rather than of our people.
In  any  case,  an  organization  such  as  the  United 
Nations,  which  is  a  depository  of  values  that  respect 
legality  and  international  law,  should  never,  through 
its  silence,  promote,  further  or  support  solutions  that 
merely  legitimize  unconstitutional  actions.  It  is  clear 
that much remains to be done. 
that  disregard 
In  our  view,  as  I  have  said  before,  in  Africa 
there  has  been  no  lack  of  mechanisms,  declarations, 
recommendations,  programmes  and  projects  with 
assessments  and  perspectives 
the 
political, institutional, social and cultural elements and 
sometimes  resemble  a  vicious  cycle.  There  is  no  real 
development  because  there  is  no  peace.  Democracy  is 
not deeply rooted because it conf licts with cultural and 
moral  traditions.  There  is  no  peace  on  account  of  the 
intolerance and social exclusion that prevent its citizens 
from  building  a  free,  fair,  democratic  and  pluralistic 
society. That, at times, exacerbates armed conf licts and 
other social ills.
Africa  needs  a  new  train  of  thought  that  does  not 
reject  the  universal  values  of  democracy  but,  on  the 
contrary,  uses  them  to  enrich  its  own  development 
process  with  a  dialectic  between  modernity  and 
tradition,  freedom  and  the  tendency  for  its  own 
conditioning, the demands of its economic development 
and  the  fight  against  exclusion  and  social  inequality, 
and reality and preconceptions.
Africa  needs  to  regain  its  self-confidence.  Africa 
still  needs  to  see  stronger  links  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union for a true development 
partnership. 
It  is  time  to  take  decisions  on  issues  such  as 
global trade and climate change on the basis of global 
negotiations that are grounded in fair, equal and ethical 
rules  and  that  are  in  step  with  the  countries  of  the 
South,  in  general,  and  of  my  continent,  in  particular. 
That would give legitimacy to other forums, that is, in 
the context of the World Trade Organization, the Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change. 
In short, we call for decisions on specific measures 
that will result in effective decision-taking within this 
Organization on development areas, such as cancelling 
the  foreign  debt  of  developing  countries,  in  particular 
small island developing States. We are certain that that 
would be a stimulus for all such countries to achieve the 
Millennium Development Goals in 2015.
In 2009, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon affirmed 
at Princeton University that the United Nations needed 
“a new vision, a new paradigm, a new multilateralism”. 
That would help to ensure global economic and financial 
stability, combat poverty, re-establish peace, respond to 
the  effects  of  climate  change,  improve  global  health, 
fight  against  terrorism  and  ensure  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.
At  the  closing  ceremony  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20) 
in  June,  it  was  stated  that  Rio+20  had  shown  that 
multilateralism was an irreplaceable instrument for the 
global expression of democracy. We reaffirm that that 
is the legitimate path for finding solutions to problems 
that affect all humankind. I support and welcome such 
statements.
In conclusion, the world has developed immensely 
since the end of the Cold War. The current multilateral 
system  must  align  itself  with  the  new  challenges.  For 
the  United  Nations  to  continue  to  be  an  efficient  and 
vital instrument for the international community in this 
new  era  of  multilateral  relations,  it  will  have  to  open 
up, innovate, listen to other voices and accept the new 
political,  economic  and  social  realities  that  have  been 
created and imposed by the globalization process.
The President returned to the Chair.
The reform of the Security Council — an organ that 
is responding less and less every day to the challenges 
of  the  contemporary  world  —  is  a  goal  that  has  long 
been  pursued,  without  success.  Cape  Verde  supports 
the position of the African Union, which recommends 
that  the  Council  be  reformed  so  as  to  correct  the 
unjust  situation  with  respect  to  the  African  continent. 
30 
12-52337
At  present  Africa  does  not  have  the  right  to  even  one 
permanent seat on the Council, even though it meets all 
the requirements.
I conclude, Mr. President, with the conviction that 
Africa  can  also  provide  a  valuable  contribution  to  the 
development of a better world, one without war, where 
peace  is  not  just  a  theoretical  concept;  a  world  with 
more  freedom,  justice  and  security —  in  other  words, 
a  world  with  more  fraternity  and  prosperity,  in  which 
the well-being of its citizens is effectively provided for.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Cape Verde for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jorge  Carlos  De  Almeida  Fonseca,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, Chairman 
of the Executive Committee of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization and President of the 
Palestinian Authority
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee 
of the Palestine Liberation Organization and President 
of the Palestinian Authority.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization 
and  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Palestinian  Liberation  Organization 
and President of the Palestinian Authority, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Abbas (Palestine) (spoke in Arabic): I wish to 
begin by extending my appreciation to the heads of all 
the delegations who in their statements to the Assembly 
stressed the urgency of progress towards the realization 
of a just peace in our region, one which would allow the 
Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  their  inalienable  national 
rights.
Developments  over  the  past  year  have  confirmed 
what we have persistently drawn attention to and warned 
A/67/PV.12
of: the catastrophic danger of racist settlers moving into 
our country. During the past months, attacks by terrorist 
militias  of  Israeli  settlers  have  become  a  daily  reality, 
with at least 535 attacks since the beginning of the year. 
We  are  facing  relentless  waves  of  attacks  against  our 
people,  our  mosques,  our  churches  and  monasteries, 
and our homes and schools. They are unleashing their 
venom  against  our  trees,  fields,  crops  and  properties, 
and  our  people  have  become  fixed  targets  for  acts  of 
killing  and  torture,  with  the  complete  collusion  of  the 
occupying forces and the Israeli Government.
The  escalation  of  settler  attacks  should  not 
surprise  anyone,  for  it  is  the  inherent  byproduct  of 
the  continuation  of  the  occupation  and  a  Government 
policy  that  deliberately  fosters  the  settlements  and 
settlers  and  deems  their  satisfaction  to  be  an  absolute 
priority.  And  it  is  the  inherent  byproduct  of  the  racist 
climate  fuelled  by  a  culture  of  incitement  in  Israeli 
curriculums  and  extremist  declarations  and  fatwas, 
which  are  rife  with  hatred  and  are  rooted  in  a  series 
of  discriminatory  laws  created  and  enacted  over  the 
years  against  the  Palestinian  people  by  the  Israeli 
security  apparatus  and  courts.  Those  entities  provide 
excuse  after  excuse  for  the  settlers’  crimes  and  for 
their  accelerated  release  should  one  of  them  happen 
to  be  arrested.  Official  and  military  commissions  of 
inquiry  fabricate  justifications  for  soldiers  who  have 
committed what are clearly considered war crimes and 
have  perpetrated  acts  of  murder,  torture  and  abuse  of 
peaceful Palestinian civilians.
Over  the  past  year,  since  the  convening  of  the 
General  Assembly’s  previous  session,  the  occupying 
Power  has  persisted  with  its  settlement  campaign, 
focusing on Jerusalem and its environs. It is a campaign 
clearly  and  deliberately  aimed  at  altering  the  city’s 
historic  character  and  the  glorious  image  of  the  Holy 
City  as  etched  in  the  minds  of  humankind.  It  is  a 
campaign  of  ethnic  cleansing  against  the  Palestinian 
people  of  Jerusalem  via  the  demolition  of  their  homes 
and  prevention  of  their  reconstruction,  the  revocation 
of  residency  rights,  the  denial  of  basic  services, 
especially  with  regard  to  the  construction  of  schools, 
the  closure  of  institutions  and  the  impoverishment  of 
Jerusalem’s  community  via  a  siege  behind  walls  and 
checkpoints. That chokes the City and prevents millions 
of  Palestinians  from  freely  accessing  its  mosques, 
churches, schools, hospitals and markets.
The  occupying  Power  has  also  continued  its 
construction  and  expansion  of  settlements  in  different 
12-52337
31
A/67/PV.12
areas  throughout  the  West  Bank  and  has  continued 
its  suffocating  blockade,  as  well  as  raids  and  attacks 
against  our  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  who  to  this  day 
suffer from the disastrous impact of the destructive war 
of aggression committed against them a few years ago. 
Nearly  5,000  Palestinians  remain  captive  as  prisoners 
and  detainees  of  conscious  in  Israel’s  jails.  In  that 
regard,  we  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
compel the Government of Israel to respect the Geneva 
Conventions  of  1949  and  to  investigate  the  conditions 
of detention of Palestinian prisoners and detainees, and 
we stress the need for their release. They are soldiers in 
their  people’s  struggle  for  freedom,  independence  and 
peace.
At  the  same  time,  the  occupying  Power  continues 
to  tighten  the  siege  and  impose  severe  restrictions  on 
movement,  preventing  the  Palestinian  Authority  from 
implementing vital infrastructure projects and providing 
services  to  its  citizens,  who  are  also  being  prevented 
from  cultivating  their  land  and  deprived  of  water  for 
irrigation. The occupying Power is also obstructing the 
establishment  of  agricultural,  industrial,  tourism  and 
housing  projects  by  the  Palestinian  private  sector  in 
vast  areas  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  which 
are classified as areas subject to the absolute control of 
the  occupation,  areas  that  encompasses  approximately 
60 per cent of the West Bank.
the  Palestinian  Authority 
The  occupying  Power  continues  to  deliberately 
demolish  what 
is 
building  —  projects  funded  by  donor  brethren  and 
friends  —  and  is  destroying  the  Authority’s  building 
projects involving roads, simple homes for its citizens 
and  agricultural  facilities.  In  fact,  over  the  past  12 
months,  the  Israeli  occupying  forces  demolished  510 
Palestinian structures in those areas and displaced 770 
Palestinians  from  their  homes.  Those  measures  have 
caused great damage to our economy and impeded our 
development  programmes  and  private-sector  activity. 
They  compound  the  socioeconomic  difficulties  of 
our  people  under  occupation,  a  fact  confirmed  by 
international  financial  institutions.  Israel’s  overall 
policy  is  ultimately  leading  to  the  weakening  of  the 
Palestinian  Authority,  undermining 
to 
carry  out  its  functions  and  projects  and  to  implement 
its  obligations.  This  threatens  to  undermine  its  very 
existence or cause its collapse.
its  ability 
All of that is taking place in the context of an Israeli 
political  discourse  that  does  not  hesitate  to  brandish 
aggressive,  extremist  positions.  In  many  aspects  and 
in their practical application on the ground, they incite 
religious  conf lict.  That  is  something  we  firmly  reject, 
based on our principles and convictions and due to our 
understanding of what it means to fuel such fires in this 
sensitive  area,  which  is  full  of  explosive  f lashpoints, 
and  how  that  can  fuel  the  action  of  extremists  from 
various quarters, especially those trying to use tolerant, 
monotheistic  religions  as  an  ideological  justification 
for their terrorism.
talks  with 
For  our  part,  as  proof  of  our  seriousness  and  our 
sincere intention to create an opening in this impasse, 
we  conducted  exploratory 
the  Israeli 
Government at the beginning of the year, at the initiative 
of  the  brotherly  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan.  We 
have  also  encouraged  the  expressed  desires  of  several 
countries  to  contribute  to  efforts  to  break  the  cycle  of 
deadlock  and  have  ourselves  undertaken  initiatives 
to  create  favourable  conditions  for  the  resumption  of 
negotiations.  Unfortunately,  however,  the  result  of  all 
those initiatives has been very negative.
There  can  be  only  one  reading  of  the  Israeli 
Government’s  actions  and  practices  in  our  homeland 
and of the positions it has presented to us regarding the 
substance of a final status agreement to end the conf lict 
and achieve peace: that the Israeli Government rejects 
the two-State solution.
The  two-State  solution  —  namely,  the  State 
of  Palestine  coexisting  alongside 
the  State  of 
Israel — represents the spirit and essence of the historic 
compromise embodied in the Declaration of Principles, 
which was agreed to in Oslo and was signed, 19 years 
ago,  by  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and  the 
Government of Israel under the auspices of the United 
States  of  America  and  on  the  White  House  lawn.  It  is 
a compromise by which, for the sake of making peace, 
the Palestinian people accepted to establish their State 
on only 22 per cent of the territory of historic Palestine.
Recent years have actually witnessed a systematic 
acceleration  and  intensification  of  Israeli  measures 
aimed  at  gutting  the  Oslo  Accords  of  their  meaning, 
while  simultaneously  building  facts  on  the  ground  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  that  are  making  the 
implementation  of  the  Accords  extremely  difficult,  if 
not completely impossible.
The  Israeli  Government  aims  to  continue  its 
occupation  of  East  Jerusalem,  to  de  facto  annex  large 
areas  of  the  rest  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory 
and  to  continue  occupying  a  large  portion  of  the 
32 
12-52337
territory  under  different  designations.  It  refuses  to 
engage  in  any  serious  discussion  of  the  issue  of  the 
Palestinian refugees. It wants to continue its occupation 
of  Palestinian  aquafers  and  its  control  over  the  most 
fertile agricultural areas in our land, as well as over our 
air, skies,water, borders and our life in its entirety.
The  final  map  and  borders  that  can  be  drawn  in 
accordance  with  Israel’s  official  positions  reveal to  us 
small  Palestinian  enclaves  surrounded  by  large  Israeli 
settlement  blocs  and  walls  and  checkpoints,  and  vast 
security  zones  and  roads  reserved  for  settlers.  The 
enclaves  would  therefore  remain  subject  to  the  full 
dominance  of  military  and  settler  occupation,  only 
packaged  under  new  names,  such  as  the  unilateral 
plan  for  a  so-called  State  with  provisional  borders.  I 
repeat  —  a  State  with  provisional  borders.  That  is  a 
project that we categorically reject from A to Z because 
it will not bring about peace.
Israel refuses to end the occupation and refuses to 
allow the Palestinian people to attain their freedom and 
independence.  It  rejects  the  establishment  of  the  State 
of Palestine. Israel is promising the Palestinian people 
a new catastrophe — a new Naqba — a new setback.
I  speak  on  behalf  of  an  angry  people  who  feel 
that while they demand their right to freedom, adopt a 
culture of peace and adhere to the principles and rules 
of  international  law  and  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy, rewards continue to be illogically bestowed 
upon  Israel,  whose  Government  pursues  a  policy  of 
war, occupation and settler occupation. Israel continues 
to  be  permitted  to  enjoy  impunity,  and  some  continue 
to obstruct the adoption of a decisive position regarding 
its  violations  of  international  law  and  covenants.  That 
represents  a  licence  for  the  occupation  to  continue 
its  policy  of  dispossession  and  ethnic  cleansing  and 
encourages it to entrench its system of apartheid against 
the Palestinian people.
Despite  our  genuine  feelings  of  anger,  we  —  in 
the name of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the 
sole 
the  Palestinian 
people  —  will  not  allow  our  country  to  be  divided  in 
two.
representative  of 
legitimate 
We  are  the  sole  legitimate  representative  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  I  reaffirm  without  hesitation  that 
we  are  as  committed  —  equally  and  by  the  same 
measures — to peace and international legitimacy and 
its  covenants  and  resolutions  as  we  are  to  upholding 
our  inalienable  national  rights  and  aspirations.  And 
A/67/PV.12
we  reaffirm  that  we  are  committed  to  non-violence 
and  reject  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,  particularly  State 
terrorism.
Despite our disappointment, we continue to sincerely 
extend a hand to the Israeli people to make peace. We 
realize  that  ultimately  the  two  peoples  must  live  and 
coexist, each in their respective State, in the Holy Land. 
Furthermore, we realize that progress towards making 
peace  can  be  achieved  through  negotiations  between 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel.
Despite  all  the  complexities  of  the  prevailing 
reality  and  all  the  frustrations  that  abound,  we  say 
before  the  international  community  that  there  is  still 
a  chance  —  maybe  the  last  —  to  save  the  two-State 
solution and to salvage peace. However, this urgent task 
must be pursued via a new approach.
Whoever rushes to advise us to repeat an experience 
that  has  proven  to  be  futile,  such  as  negotiations  with 
the Israeli Government without clear terms of reference, 
must understand that this will result in the reproduction 
of failure and again provide cover for consecrating the 
occupation  and  will  deal  the  final  blow  to  an  already 
dying peace process. Whoever advises us to wait must 
realize  that  the  hotbeds  of  tension  and  the  festering 
situation in our country and our region have their own 
timing  and  cannot  withstand  further  procrastination 
and delay, nor are they amenable to being relegated to 
the bottom of the global agenda.
The approach required for salvaging the chance for 
peace  must,  first  and  foremost,  be  predicated  on  the 
understanding  that  the  racist  settler  occupation  must 
be  condemned,  punished  and  boycotted  so  that  it  is 
completely  halted  and  eliminated.  That  approach  also 
requires a reaffirmation of, and adherence to, the terms 
of  reference  and  the  foundations  of  the  solution  to  the 
conf lict, which have been endorsed by all here.
We  do  not  need  to  belabour  the  core  components 
of  a  just  solution  to  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conf lict. 
Rather,  what  is  needed  is  the  will  to  implement  those 
components. Marathon negotiations are not required to 
define them, rather it is the genuine and sincere intention 
to  reach  peace  that  is  needed.  Those  components  are 
by no means a mysterious puzzle or intractable riddle; 
they  are  the  clearest  and  best-known  secrets  in  the 
world.  They  include,  in  brief,  the  establishment  of  an 
independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as 
its  capital,  over  the  entire  territory  occupied  by  Israel 
since 1967, and the realization of a just, agreed solution 
12-52337
33
A/67/PV.12
to  the  Palestine  refugee  issue,  in  accordance  with 
resolution  194  (III),  as  prescribed  in  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.
The  fundamental  components  of  the  solution  to 
the  conf lict  exist  in  the  documents  and  resolutions  of 
the United Nations. Member States already have them. 
The  components  of  the  solution  are  also  endorsed  in 
resolutions  of  regional  organizations,  beginning  with 
the League of Arab States, the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the 
African Union. They can also be found in the statements 
of  the  European  Union  and  the  international  Quartet. 
However, what is the use of all those terms of reference 
if  Israel  continues  to  refuse,  and  is  encouraged  by 
others to continue to oppose the terms of reference?
The  international  community,  embodied  in  the 
United Nations, is required now more than ever to uphold 
its responsibilities. The Security Council is called upon 
to  urgently  adopt  a  resolution  comprising  the  pillars 
and foundations for a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli 
conf lict that would serve as a binding term of reference 
and guide for all if the vision of two States, Israel and 
Palestine, is to survive and if peace is to prevail in the 
land of peace — the birthplace of Jesus, peace be upon 
him,  the  ascension  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  peace 
be  upon  him,  and  the  final  resting  place  of  Abraham, 
peace  be  upon  him  —  Palestine,  the  land  of  the  three 
monotheistic religions.
All  things  considered,  the  establishment  of  a  free 
and independent State of Palestine is a sacred right of 
the Palestinian people and an entitlement that must be 
realized, for it has been overdue for too many decades. 
It is not a grant to be bestowed upon us by anyone. It is 
a  right,  and  the  Palestinian  people  are  entitled  to  that 
right.
At  the  same  time,  the  Palestinian  Authority  has 
affirmed,  through  the  implementation  of  its  State 
institution-building  programmes,  the  ability  to  create 
an  advanced  model  for  an  effective,  modern  State 
through  the  development  of  the  performance  of  its 
institutions  and  public  finance  management  and 
through  the  adoption  of  standards  for  transparency, 
strict  accountability  and  rules  of  good  governance. 
Those  achievements  have  been  deemed  by  the  Ad 
Hoc  Liaison  Committee  for  the  Coordination  of 
the  International  Assistance 
the 
World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund  to 
constitute an impressive undertaking and success story. 
to  Palestinians, 
Those  achievements  were  again  commended  in  the 
latest report just a few days ago, which confirmed the 
Palestinian Authority’s total readiness for the transition 
to an independent State while at the same time stressing 
that  the  Israeli  occupation  remained  the  only  obstacle 
to the realization of the State of Palestine.
submitted  our 
application 
During 
the  previous  session  of 
the  General 
for 
Assembly,  we 
consideration  by  the  Security  Council  to  allow  the 
State  of  Palestine  to  assume  its  rightful  place  among 
the  community  of  nations  as  a  full  Member  of  the 
United Nations. A major and hostile uproar was raised 
by  some  against  that  political,  diplomatic,  peaceful 
step  par  excellence  aimed  at  saving  the  peace  process 
by asserting its principles and foundation. Despite the 
fact  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  countries 
of  the  world  supported,  and  continues  to  support,  our 
application,  our  endeavour  was  aborted.  I  do  not  see 
even a single reason for opposing that request.
to  declare 
Yet  when  the  countries  of  the  world  had  the 
opportunity 
their  stance  without  any 
restrictions  or  veto  during  the  previous  autumn,  they 
voted, despite enormous pressure, in strong support of the 
acceptance of Palestine as a member State of UNESCO. 
A  year  has  passed,  and  Palestine,  the  homeland  of 
Mahmoud  Darwish  and  Edward  Said,  is  playing  its 
role in UNESCO with a high level of responsibility and 
professionalism. Palestine is committed to international 
conventions and is cooperating with all member States 
in  order  to  advance  the  objectives  of  the  organization 
and providing a model of what its positive, constructive 
contribution  in  international  organizations  would  be. 
In  order  to  enhance  the  chances  for  peace,  we  will 
continue  our  efforts  to  obtain  full  membership  for 
Palestine  at  the  United  Nations.  For  the  same  reason, 
we  have  begun  intensive  consultations  with  various 
regional  organizations  and  Member  States  aimed  at 
the  General  Assembly’s  adoption  during  this  session 
of a draft resolution considering the State of Palestine 
as  a  non-member  State  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are 
confident that the vast majority of the countries of the 
world  support  our  efforts  to  bolster  the  chances  for  a 
just peace. In our efforts we do not seek to delegitimize 
an existing State, that is, Israel; but rather to establish 
the  State  that  must  be  realized,  that  is,  Palestine.  We 
are not trying to delegitimize them; they are trying to 
delegitimize us.
More  than  64  years  have  passed  since  Al-Nakba 
and  a  large  number  of  those  who  were  its  immediate 
34 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
victims and witnessed its horrors have died. They died 
with memories, preserved in their minds and hearts, of 
their  beautiful  world  that  was  devastated,  their  warm 
homes that were demolished and their peaceful villages 
that were erased from existence, and of the renaissance 
that  was  undermined,  and  their  loved  ones,  dear 
men,  women  and  children,  who  were  killed  in  wars, 
massacres,  attacks,  raids  and  incursions,  and  of  their 
beautiful  country  that  was  a  beacon  of  coexistence, 
tolerance,  progress  and  a  crossroads  of  civilization. 
They  died  displaced  and  in  refugee  camps  to  which 
they were expelled following their uprooting from their 
homeland,  as  they  awaited  the  moment  in  which  they 
would  resume  their  suspended  lives,  complete  their 
interrupted  journey  and  repair  their  shattered  dreams. 
They  died  while  they  clung  to  their  legitimate  human 
right to justice, freedom and redress for the historically 
unprecedented  injustice  inf licted  upon  them.  Has  the 
time not come to undo that injustice?
At present, 77 per cent of the Palestinian people are 
under the age of 35. Although they did not experience 
the  horrors  of  Al-Nakba,  they  know  very  well  all  its 
horrendous  details  from  the  accounts  of  their  parents 
and  grandparents  who  endured  it.  They  continue  to 
suffer  from  its  ongoing  effects  today  and  every  day 
as  a  result  of  the  practices  of  the  occupation  and  of 
the  settlers  on  a  land  that  is  diminishing  in  size.  The 
horizon before them is closed to their simple, ordinary 
dreams. They see their homeland and their present and 
future vulnerable to continued usurpation and they say 
firmly: we shall not allow a new Al-Nakba to happen.
I  say  to  the  Assembly  that  the  brave  Palestinian 
people  will  not  allow  themselves  to  be  the  victims 
of  a  new  Al-Nakba.  We  will  not  allow  that.  We  will 
stay  on  our  land.  My  people  will  continue  their  epic 
steadfastness  and  eternal  survival  journey  in  their 
beloved land, every inch of which carries evidence and 
landmarks affirming their roots and unique connection 
to  the  land  throughout  ancient  history.  There  is  no 
homeland  for  us  except  Palestine  and  there  is  no  land 
for us but Palestine. We shall not accept an alternative 
homeland,  nor  an  alternative  land.  Palestine  is  our 
homeland and shall remain our homeland.
Our people will continue to build the institutions of 
their State and strive to achieve national reconciliation 
to restore the unity of our nation, people and institutions 
via resorting to the ballot box, which will confirm our 
people’s  pluralistic  democratic  choice.  Our  people 
are  also  determined  to  continue  peaceful  popular 
resistance,  consistent  with  international  humanitarian 
law, against the occupation, against the settlements and 
for the sake of freedom, independence and peace.
Let  us  prevent  the  occurrence  of  a  new  Al-Nakba 
in  the  Holy  Land.  Let  us  support  the  realization  of  a 
free, independent State of Palestine now. Let peace be 
victorious before it is too late.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Chairman of the Executive Committee 
of the Palestine Liberation Organization and President 
of  the  Palestinian  Authority  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization 
and  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Address by Mr. Janez Janša, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Slovenia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Slovenia.
Mr. Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Janez  Janša,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Slovenia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Janša  (Slovenia):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, on 
his  election  and  wish  him  success  in  discharging  his 
duties. It is my honour to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his able 
leadership  and  tireless  efforts  in  guiding  the  United 
Nations in these demanding times.
The theme of this session of the General Assembly 
is  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. 
We had an opportunity to listen to the speakers at the 
opening of the session, who stressed the importance of 
preventing violence and the responsibility of all Member 
States, their leaders and international organizations to 
12-52337
35
A/67/PV.12
take any action they can to prevent and raise awareness 
of such horrible events.
of this session that we should give the responsibility to 
protect concept a tangible meaning.
Among other issues of global concern, I would like 
to draw the Assembly’s attention to the horrific scenes 
in  Syria.  A  civil  war  has  been  dragging  on  there  for 
many months. Efforts at mediation unfortunately have 
failed. It shocks our conscience that we have been unable 
to stop the bloodshed. Sadly, we have not succeeded in 
protecting civilians. In my view, the situation is critical. 
It  speaks  to  the  urgent  need  to  consider  strengthening 
the  preventive  capacities  of  the  United  Nations,  its 
States Members and regional organizations.
Concerted  efforts  to  avert  mass  atrocities  are 
needed. Last year we celebrated the sixtieth anniversary 
of  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. 
The Convention was the result of the tireless efforts of 
Mr.  Raphael  Lemkin,  a  Polish  lawyer.  He  stalked  the 
halls  of  the  United  Nations  every  day  until  December 
1948,  when  the  General  Assembly  finally  adopted  the 
Convention. Afterwards he continued his work, and his 
endeavours paid off in 1951, when the Convention came 
into force.
We  then  waited  half  a  century  to  see  the  first 
conviction  of  an  individual  for  the  crime  of  genocide. 
The  establishment  of  the  International  Tribunals  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  Rwanda  in  the  1990s  was 
followed  by  the  historic  creation  of  the  permanent 
International  Criminal  Court.  That  was  another 
milestone in the humanization of international relations. 
A  further  encouraging  development  is  that  the  United 
Nations system has improved its internal coordination 
of activities related to the prevention of genocide. The 
Offices  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  the  Prevention  of 
Genocide and Mass Atrocities and the Special Adviser 
on the Responsibility to Protect were established at that 
time. The Human Rights Council has helped to promote 
the culture of prevention.
Over  the  past  months,  the  Syrian  tragedy  has 
increased  awareness  of  our  responsibility  to  prevent 
and  stop  mass  atrocities.  United  States  President 
Barack  Obama  has  established  a  promising  atrocities 
prevention  board  and,  in  his  remarks  at  the  United 
States Holocaust Memorial Museum in April, made the 
point  that  national  sovereignty  was  never  a  licence  to 
slaughter your people. I hope we all share his belief that 
preventing  genocide  is  an  achievable  goal.  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon urged in his speech at the opening 
To  my  regret,  however,  we  have  not  yet  achieved 
a  common  understanding  on  the  modalities  involved. 
We should therefore focus and strengthen our dialogue 
to  that  end.  There  is  room  for  improving  the  modes 
of  collaboration  between  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels.
It will be recalled that after the Second World War 
more  than  80  countries  witnessed  mass  atrocities.  At 
least 53 million innocent lives were lost. Behind those 
numbers were real men and women made of f lesh and 
blood,  and  also  children.  They  had  futures  but  were 
not  allowed  to  live.  Behind  those  numbers  there  are 
still  traumatized  families  and  the  distorted  creative 
potential of the affected societies. Bearing that in mind, 
we should be able to set at least basic limits on human 
behaviour and stop mass atrocities.
I therefore urge the States Members of the United 
Nations,  the  members  of  the  regional  and  subregional 
organizations and the United Nations system to develop 
a  new  strategy  to  prevent  genocide  and  other  mass 
atrocities.  Moreover,  an  intergovernmental  forum  of 
like-minded  countries  should  be  formed  to  propose  a 
United Nations resolution that would set a clear mandate 
for the preparation and adoption of an appropriate legal 
mechanism  —  a  legal  mechanism  that  would  provide 
the  responsibility  to  protect  concept  with  new  tools,  a 
legal mechanism that would enforce crime prevention, 
a  mechanism  to  facilitate  a  more  rapid  and  effective 
response to acts of genocide and other mass atrocities.
Slovenia  stands  ready  to  start  a  dialogue  to  that 
end.  We  are  going  to  convene  the  first  meeting  in 
the  following  months.  I  am  glad  that  we  have  already 
enlisted  substantial  support  for  the  initiative  during 
this  Assembly  session.  The  initiative  originates  from 
international  civil  society.  The  Institute  for  Cultural 
Diplomacy  in  Berlin  has  collected  many  thousands 
of  supporters  among  international  non-governmental 
organizations,  lawyers,  students,  journalists  and  other 
individuals.  Support  is  on  the  increase,  and  this  is 
not  just  one  isolated  initiative.  There  are  many  others 
across the globe.
We 
should,  of  course,  also  enhance  our 
collaboration with a view to the prosecution of alleged 
perpetrators of genocide and mass atrocities, including 
individual  States.  Effective  prosecution  undoubtedly 
has  a  deterrent  effect  and  contributes  substantially  to 
36 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
a culture of prevention. Moreover, a genuine culture of 
prevention  needs  to  be  developed  globally.  We  should 
improve our understanding of the warning signs, which 
should trigger early action.
These  days  we  witness  numerous  acts  of  violence 
against  diplomatic  and  consular  missions  in  one  part 
of  our  world.  I  strongly  condemn  such  violent  acts. 
They  can  never  be  justified.  Freedom  of  speech  is 
fundamental  in  a  democracy,  and  a  violent  response 
has never been able to silence it. Only by strengthening 
intercultural  dialogue  can  we  diminish  the  potential 
for  conf lict.  Only  mutual  respect  can  contribute  to 
maintaining peace and security.
Mr. Prosor (Israel), Vice-President, took the Chair.
It  was  in  1946  that  Raphael  Lemkin  asserted  that 
our  whole  heritage  is  a  product  of  the  contributions 
of  all  nations.  Each  and  every  nation  and  the  United 
Nations  as  a  whole  have  an  enormous  responsibility, 
and  also  an  opportunity,  to  prevent  future  atrocities. 
We cannot escape our history but let us learn from it.
I fully believe that we do not want the mistakes of 
yesterday  to  be  repeated  tomorrow.  We  took  over  the 
responsibility  for  the  world  from  our  fathers  and  have 
an  enormous  responsibility  to  make  it  a  better  place 
for our children. I therefore invite all here to do so by 
joining in our efforts for a world free from genocide.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Israel.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
from Israel, and it is good to see all of the representatives 
here.
Three  thousand  years  ago,  King  David  reigned 
over the Jewish State in our eternal capital, Jerusalem. 
I  say  that  to  all  those  who  proclaim  that  the  Jewish 
State  has  no  roots  in  our  region  and  that  it  will  soon 
disappear.  Throughout  our  history,  the  Jewish  people 
have  overcome  all  the  tyrants  who  have  sought  our 
destruction.  It  is  their  ideologies  that  have  been 
discarded  by  history.  The  people  of  Israel  live  on.  We 
say in Hebrew, the Jewish State will live forever.
The  Jewish people  have  lived  in  the  land  of  Israel 
for  thousands  of  years.  Even  after  most  of  our  people 
were exiled from it, Jews continued to live in the land 
of Israel throughout the ages. The masses of our people 
never  gave  up  the  dream  of  returning  to  our  ancient 
homeland. Defying the laws of history, we did just that. 
We  ingathered  the  exiles,  restored  our  independence 
and  rebuilt  our  national  life.  The  Jewish  people  have 
come home. We will never be uprooted again.
Yesterday  was  Yom  Kippur,  the  holiest  day  of 
the  Jewish  year.  Every  year,  for  over  three  millennia, 
we  have  come  together  on  this  day  of  ref lection  and 
atonement. We take stock of our past. We pray for our 
future.  We  remember  the  sorrows  of  our  persecution; 
we  remember  the  great  travails  of  our  dispersion;  we 
mourn  the  extermination  of  a  third  of  our  people, 
6 million, in the Holocaust.
But  at  the  end  of  Yom  Kippur,  we  celebrate.  We 
celebrate the rebirth of Israel. We celebrate the heroism 
of  our  young  men  and  women  who  have  defended  our 
people  with  the  indomitable  courage  of  Joshua,  David 
and  the  Maccabees  of  old.  We  celebrate  the  marvel 
of  the  f lourishing  modern  Jewish  State.  In  Israel  we 
walk the same paths as those trodden by our patriarchs 
Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  But  we  blaze  new  trails  in 
science, technology, medicine and agriculture. In Israel 
the past and the future find common ground.
Unfortunately,  that  is  not  the  case  in  many  other 
countries.  For  today,  a  great  battle  is  being  waged 
between  the  modern  and  the  medieval.  The  forces  of 
modernity  seek  a  bright  future  in  which  the  rights  of 
all  are  protected,  in  which  an  ever-expanding  digital 
library is available in the palm of every child, in which 
every life is sacred.
Mr. Netanyahu (Israel): It is a pleasure to see the 
General  Assembly  presided  over  by  the  Ambassador 
The  forces  of  medievalism  seek  a  world  in  which 
in  which 
women  and  minorities  are  subjugated, 
12-52337
37
A/67/PV.12
knowledge  is  suppressed,  in  which  not  life  but  death 
is  glorified.  Those  forces  clash  around  the  globe,  but 
nowhere  more  starkly  than  in  the  Middle  East.  Israel 
stands proudly with the forces of modernity. We protect 
the rights of all our citizens, men and women, Jews and 
Arabs, Muslims and Christians — all are equal before 
the law.
Yet  the  medieval  forces  of  radical  Islam,  which 
the  world  just  saw  storming  American  Embassies 
throughout  the  Middle  East,  oppose  that.  They  seek 
supremacy  over  all  Muslims.  They  are  bent  on  world 
conquest. They want to destroy Israel, Europe, America. 
They want to extinguish freedom. They want to end the 
modern world.
Israel is also making the world a better place. Our 
scientists win Nobel Prizes. Our know-how is in every 
cell phone and computer that every one of us uses. We 
prevent  hunger  by  irrigating  arid  lands  in  Africa  and 
Asia.  Recently,  I  was  deeply  moved  when  I  visited 
Technion, one of our technological institutes in Haifa, 
and I saw a man paralysed from the waist down climb 
up  a  f light  of  stairs,  quite  easily,  with  the  aid  of  an 
Israeli invention. And Israel’s exceptional creativity is 
matched by our people’s remarkable compassion. When 
disaster  strikes  anywhere  in  the  world  —  in  Haiti, 
Japan, India, Turkey, Indonesia and elsewhere — Israeli 
doctors  are  among  the  first  on  the  scene,  performing 
lifesaving surgeries.
In  the  past  year,  I  lost  both  my  father  and  my 
father-in-law.  In  the  same  hospital  wards  where  they 
were  treated,  Israeli  doctors  were  treating  Palestinian 
Arabs.  In  fact,  every  year,  thousands  of  Arabs  from 
the  Palestinian  territories  and  Arabs  from  throughout 
the  Middle  East  come  to  Israel  to  be  treated  in  Israeli 
hospitals  by  Israeli  doctors.  I  know  that  that  is  not 
going  to  be  spoken  by  speakers  at  this  podium,  but  it 
is  the  truth.  It  is  important  that  the  world  be  aware  of 
that truth. It is because Israel cherishes life that Israel 
cherishes  peace  and  seeks  peace.  We  seek  to  preserve 
our  historic  ties  and  our  historic  peace  treaties  with 
Egypt  and  Jordan.  We  seek  to  forge  a  durable  peace 
with the Palestinians.
President  Abbas  just  spoke  here.  I  say  to  him  and 
I  say  to  the  Assembly:  we  will  not  solve  our  conf lict 
with  libellous  speeches  at  the  United  Nations.  That  is 
not  the  way  to  solve  it.  We  will  not  solve  our  conf lict 
with  unilateral  declarations  of  statehood.  We  have 
to  sit  together,  negotiate  together  and  reach  a  mutual 
compromise, in which a demilitarized Palestinian State 
recognizes the one and only Jewish State.
Israel  wants  to  see  a  Middle  East  of  progress  and 
peace.  We  want  to  see  the  three  great  religions  that 
sprang forth from our region — Judaism, Christianity 
and Islam — coexist in peace and in mutual respect.
Militant Islam has many branches, from the rulers 
of  Iran  with  their  Revolutionary  Guards  to  Al-Qaida 
terrorists to the radical cells lurking in every part of the 
globe. But despite their differences, they are all rooted 
in  the  same bitter  soil  of  intolerance.  That  intolerance 
is  directed  first  at  their  fellow  Muslims  and  then  at 
Christians,  Jews,  Buddhists,  Hindus,  secular  people, 
and  anyone  who  does  not  submit  to  their  unforgiving 
creed. They want to drag humankind back to an age of 
unquestioning dogma and unrelenting conf lict.
I  am  sure  of  one  thing.  Ultimately,  they  will  fail. 
Ultimately,  light  will  penetrate  the  darkness.  We 
have  seen  that  happen  before.  Some  500  years  ago, 
the  printing  press  helped  pry  a  cloistered  Europe 
out  of  a  dark  age.  Eventually,  ignorance  gave  way  to 
enlightenment.  So  too,  a  cloistered  Middle  East  will 
eventually  yield  to  the  irresistible  power  of  freedom 
and technology. When that happens, our region will be 
guided not by fanaticism and conspiracy but by reason 
and curiosity.
I  think  the  relevant  question  is  not  whether  this 
fanaticism  will  be  defeated.  It  is  how  many  lives  will 
be lost before it is defeated. We have seen that happen 
before  too.  Some  70  years  ago,  the  world  saw  another 
fanatic ideology bent on world conquest. It went down 
in f lames, but not before it took millions of people with 
it. Those who opposed that fanaticism waited too long 
to act. In the end they triumphed, but at a horrific cost.
My  friends,  we  cannot  let  that  happen  again.  At 
stake  is  not  merely  the  future  of  my  own  country.  At 
stake is the future of the world. Nothing could imperil 
our common future more than the arming of Iran with 
nuclear weapons. To understand what the world would 
be  like  with  a  nuclear-armed  Iran,  just  imagine  the 
world  with  a  nuclear-armed  Al-Qaida.  It  makes  little 
difference  whether  these  lethal  weapons  are  in  the 
hands of the world’s most dangerous terrorist regime or 
the world’s most dangerous terrorist organization. They 
are both fired by the same hatred; they are both driven 
by the same lust for violence.
38 
12-52337
Just  look  at  what  the  Iranian  regime  has  done  up 
until  now,  without  nuclear  weapons.  In  2009,  they 
brutally put down mass protests for democracy in their 
own  country.  Today,  their  henchmen  are  participating 
in  the  slaughter  of  tens  of  thousands  of  Syrian 
civilians,  including  thousands  of  children  —  directly 
participating in those murders. They abetted the killing 
of  American  soldiers  in  Iraq  and  continue  to  do  so 
in  Afghanistan.  Before  that,  Iranian  proxies  killed 
hundreds  of  American  troops  in  Beirut  and  in  Saudi 
Arabia. They have turned Lebanon and Gaza into terror 
strongholds,  embedding  nearly  100,000  missiles  and 
rockets in civilian areas. Thousands of such rockets and 
missiles have already been fired at Israeli communities 
by their terrorist proxies.
In the past year, they have spread their international 
terror  networks  to  two  dozen  countries  across  five 
continents,  from  India  and  Thailand  to  Kenya  and 
Bulgaria. They have even plotted to blow up a restaurant 
a  few  blocks  from  the  White  House  in  order  to  kill  a 
diplomat. And of course, Iran’s rulers repeatedly deny 
the  Holocaust  and  call  for  Israel’s  destruction  almost 
on  a  daily  basis,  as  they  did  again  this  week  from  the 
United Nations.
just 
imagine 
So  I  ask,  given  this  record  of  Iranian  aggression 
without  nuclear  weapons, 
Iranian 
aggression  with  nuclear  weapons.  Imagine  their  long-
range  missiles  tipped  with  nuclear  warheads,  their 
terror  networks  armed  with  atomic  bombs.  Who  here 
would feel safe in the Middle East? Who would be safe 
in Europe? Who would be safe in America? Who would 
be safe anywhere?
There  are  those  who  believe  that  a  nuclear-armed 
Iran  can  be  deterred  like  the  Soviet  Union.  That  is  a 
very  dangerous  assumption.  Militant  jihadists  behave 
very  differently  from  secular  Marxists.  There  were 
no  Soviet  suicide  bombers.  Yet  Iran  produces  hordes 
of  them.  Deterrence  worked  with  the  Soviets,  because 
every  time  the  Soviets  faced  a  choice  between  their 
ideology  and  their  survival,  they  chose  their  survival. 
But  deterrence  may  not  work  with  the  Iranians  once 
they get nuclear weapons.
A  great  scholar  of  the  Middle  East,  Professor 
Bernard Lewis, put it best. He said that for the ayatollahs 
of Iran mutually assured destruction is not a deterrent, 
it  is  an  inducement.  Iran’s  apocalyptic  leaders  believe 
that  a  medieval  holy  man  will  reappear  in  the  wake 
of  a  devastating  holy  war,  thereby  ensuring  that  their 
A/67/PV.12
brand  of  radical  Islam  will  rule  the  Earth.  That  is  not 
just  what  they  believe;  it  is  what  is  actually  guiding 
their policies and their actions. Just listen to Ayatollah 
Rafsanjani who said, “the use of even one nuclear bomb 
inside Israel will destroy everything, however it would 
only  harm  the  Islamic  world.”  Rafsanjani  said:  “It  is 
not irrational to contemplate such an eventuality”. “Not 
irrational” is what he said. And that is coming from one 
of the so-called moderates of Iran.
Shockingly, some people have begun to peddle the 
absurd notion that a nuclear-armed Iran would actually 
stabilize the Middle East. That is like saying a nuclear-
armed  Al-Qaida  would  usher  in  an  era  of  universal 
peace.
I have been speaking about the need to prevent Iran 
from  developing  nuclear  weapons  for  over  15  years. 
I  spoke  about  it  in  my  first  term  in  office  as  Prime 
Minister,  and  then  I  spoke  about  it  when  I  left  office. 
I  spoke  about  it  when  it  was  fashionable,  and  I  spoke 
about it when it was not fashionable.
I  speak  about  it  now  because  the  hour  is  getting 
late, very late. I speak about it now because the Iranian 
nuclear  calendar  does  not  take  time  out  for  anyone  or 
for  anything.  I  speak  about  it  now  because  when  it 
comes to the survival of my country, it is not only my 
right to speak, it is my duty to speak. And I believe that 
it is the duty of every responsible leader who wants to 
preserve world peace.
For  nearly  a  decade,  the  international  community 
has  tried  to  stop  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  with 
diplomacy.  That  has  not  worked.  Iran  uses  diplomatic 
negotiations as a means to buy time to advance its nuclear 
programme.  For  over  seven  years,  the  international 
community  has  tried  sanctions  with  Iran.  Under  the 
leadership  of  President  Obama, 
international 
community has passed some of the strongest sanctions 
to date.
the 
I want to thank the Governments represented here 
that have joined in that effort. It has had an effect. Oil 
exports  have  been  curbed  and  the  Iranian  economy 
has been hit hard. It has had an effect on the economy, 
but we must face the truth. Sanctions have not stopped 
Iran’s nuclear programme either.
According  to  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency,  during  the  last  year  alone,  Iran  doubled  the 
number  of  centrifuges  in  its  underground  nuclear 
facility in Qom. At this late hour, there is only one way 
12-52337
39
A/67/PV.12
to peacefully prevent Iran from getting atomic bombs. 
That  is  by  placing  a  clear  red  line  on  Iran’s  nuclear 
weapons programme. 
assemble  a  warhead  or  a  nuclear  device  that  could  be 
placed  in  a  container  ship.  Chances  are  you  will  not 
find that facility either. 
Red lines do not lead to war. Red lines prevent war. 
Look at NATO’s charter. It made clear that an attack on 
one member country would be considered an attack on 
all.  NATO’s  red  line  helped  keep  the  peace  in  Europe 
for  nearly  half  a  century.  President  Kennedy  set  a  red 
line  during  the  Cuban  missile  crisis.  That  red  line 
also  prevented  war  and  helped  preserve  the  peace  for 
decades.
In  fact,  it  is  the  failure  to  place  red  lines  that  has 
often  invited  aggression.  If  the  Western  Powers  had 
drawn  clear  red  lines  during  the  1930s,  I  believe  they 
would  have  stopped  Nazi  aggression,  and  the  Second 
World  War  might  have  been  avoided.  In  1990,  if 
Saddam Hussein had been clearly told that his conquest 
of  Kuwait  would  cross  a  red  line,  the  first  Gulf  War 
might have been avoided.
Clear red lines have also worked with Iran. Earlier 
this year, Iran threatened to close the Straits of Hormuz. 
The United States drew a clear red line and Iran backed 
off. Now, red lines could be drawn in different parts of 
Iran’s nuclear weapons programme, but to be credible, 
a red line must be drawn first and foremost in one vital 
part  of  their  programme:  on  Iran’s  efforts  to  enrich 
uranium. 
Now  let  me  explain  why.  Basically,  any  bomb 
consists  of  explosive  material  and  a  mechanism  to 
ignite  it.  The  simplest  example  is  gunpowder  and  a 
fuse  —  that  is,  you  light  the  fuse  and  you  set  off  the 
gunpowder. In the case of Iran’s plans to build a nuclear 
weapon,  the  gunpowder  is  enriched  uranium.  The 
fuse is a nuclear detonator. For Iran, amassing enough 
enriched  uranium  is  far  more  difficult  than  producing 
the nuclear fuse. For a country like Iran, it takes many 
years  to  enrich  uranium  for  a  bomb.  That  requires 
thousands  of  centrifuges  spinning  in  tandem  in  very 
big  industrial  plants.  Those  Iranian  plants  are  visible 
and they are still vulnerable. 
In  contrast,  Iran  could  produce 
the  nuclear 
detonator, the fuse, in a lot less time — maybe under a 
year,  maybe  only  a  few  months.  The  detonator  can  be 
made  in  a  small  workshop  the  size  of  a  classroom.  It 
may be very difficult to find and target that workshop, 
especially in Iran. That is a country that is bigger than 
France,  Germany,  Italy  and  Britain  combined.  The 
same is true for the small facility in which they could 
So  in  fact,  the  only  way  that  you  can  credibly 
prevent  Iran  from  developing  a  nuclear  weapon,  is  to 
prevent  Iran  from  amassing  enough  enriched  uranium 
for  a  bomb.  So  how  much  enriched  uranium  do  you 
need for a bomb, and how close is Iran to getting it? 
Let me show you. I brought a diagram for you. Here 
is the diagram. This is a bomb. This is a fuse. 
In the case of Iran’s nuclear plans to build a bomb, 
this  bomb  has  to  be  filled  with  enough  enriched 
uranium,  and  Iran  has  to  go  through  three  stages.  In 
the first stage they have to enrich enough low-enriched 
uranium; in the second stage they have to enrich enough 
medium-enriched  uranium.  And  in  the  third,  and 
final,  stage  they  have  to  enrich  enough  high-enriched 
uranium for the first bomb.
Where is Iran? Iran has completed the first stage. It 
took them many years, but they completed it, and they 
are  70  per  cent  of  the  way  there.  Now  they  are  well 
into the second stage. By next spring, at most by next 
summer,  at  current  enrichment  rates,  they  will  have 
finished  the  medium  enrichment  and  moved  on  to  the 
final stage. From there, it is only a few months, possibly 
a few weeks, before they get enough enriched uranium 
for the first bomb.
What  I  told  the  Assembly  just  now  is  not  based 
on  secret  information.  It  is  not  based  on  military 
intelligence.  It  is  based  on  public  reports  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  Anybody  can 
read them. They are online.
So  if  these  are  the  facts —  and  they  are —  where 
should a red line be drawn? A red line should be drawn 
right  here,  before  Iran  completes  the  second  stage  of 
nuclear  enrichment  necessary  to  make  a  bomb  and 
before Iran gets to a point where it is a few months away 
or  a  few  weeks  away  from  amassing  enough  enriched 
uranium to make a nuclear weapon. 
Each  day,  that  point  is  getting  closer.  That  is  why 
I speak today with such a sense of urgency, and that is 
why everyone should have a sense of urgency.
There  are  some  who  claim  that  even  if  Iran 
completes  the  enrichment  process,  even  if  it  crosses 
that red line that I just drew, our intelligence agencies 
will  know  when  and  where  Iran  will  make  the  fuse, 
40 
12-52337
A/67/PV.12
assemble  the  bomb  and  prepare  the  warhead.  No  one 
appreciates  our  intelligence  agencies  more  than  the 
Prime Minister of Israel. All these leading intelligence 
agencies  are  superb,  including  ours.  They  have  foiled 
many  attacks,  they  have  saved  many  lives,  but  they 
are  not  foolproof.  For  over  two  years,  our  intelligence 
agencies  did  not  know  that  Iran  was  building  a  huge 
nuclear  enrichment  plant  under  a  mountain.  Do  we 
want to risk the security of the world on the assumption 
that we would find a small workshop in a country half 
the size of Europe in time?
The  relevant  question  is  not  when  Iran  will  get 
the  bomb.  The  relevant  question  is  at  what  stage  can 
we  no  longer  stop  Iran  from  getting  the  bomb?  The 
red  line  must  be  drawn  on  Iran’s  nuclear  enrichment 
programme because these enrichment facilities are the 
only nuclear installations that we can definitely see and 
credibly target. 
they are the Jewish people’s greatest gift to humankind. 
Let  us  commit  ourselves  today  to  defending  those 
values so that we can defend our freedoms and protect 
our common civilization.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Thomas Motsoahae Thabane, 
Prime Minister, Head of Government and 
Minister of Defence, Police and National 
Security of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho.
I believe that faced with a clear red line, Iran will 
back down. This will give more time for sanctions and 
diplomacy  to  convince  Iran  to  dismantle  its  nuclear 
weapons programme altogether.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
and Head of Government, and Minister of Defence, 
Police  and  National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum.
Two days ago, from this podium, President Obama 
reiterated that the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran cannot 
be  contained  (see  A/67/PV.6).  I  very  much  appreciate 
the President’s position, as does everyone in my country. 
We  share  the  goal  of  stopping  Iran’s  nuclear  weapons 
programme.  This  goal  unites  the  people  of  Israel.  It 
unites  Americans,  Democrats  and  Republicans  alike. 
and  it  is  shared  by  important  leaders  throughout  the 
world. What I have said today will help ensure that this 
common goal is achieved. Israel is in discussions with 
the  United  States  over  this  issue,  and  I  am  confident 
that we can chart a path forward together.
The  clash  between  modernity  and  medievalism 
need not be a clash between progress and tradition. The 
traditions  of  the  Jewish  people  go  back  thousands  of 
years. They are the source of our collective values and 
the  foundations  of  our  national  strength.  At  the  same 
time, the Jewish people have always looked towards the 
future. Throughout history, we have been at the forefront 
of  efforts  to  expand  liberty,  promote  equality  and 
advance  human  rights.  We  champion  those  principles 
not  in  spite  of  our  traditions  but  because  of  them.  We 
heed the words of the Jewish prophets Isaiah, Amos and 
Jeremiah  to  treat  all  with  dignity  and  compassion,  to 
pursue justice and cherish life and to pray and strive for 
peace. Those are the timeless values of my people, and 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae 
Thabane,  Prime  Minister,  Head  of  Government  and 
Minister  of  Defence,  Police  and  National  Security  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly.
Mr. Thabane (Lesotho): Allow me to congratulate 
the  President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would 
like  to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and 
cooperation during his tenure of office. His impeccable 
credentials  and  experience  will  ensure  a  successful 
session. I also wish to commend his predecessor for his 
sterling leadership during the previous session.
The  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  by  51 
countries  following  the  Second  World  War  ushered  in 
hope for collective security, shared prosperity and justice 
in international relations. Six decades have passed and 
the membership of the Organization has swelled more 
than  threefold.  But  obstacles  still  remain  in  the  path 
towards  creating  a  world  that  was  envisioned  by  our 
forebears.  We  know  the  solutions  that  can  effectively 
address  the  multifaceted  challenges  that  confront  our 
world. But it is increasingly difficult to arrive at those 
solutions within the multilateral system.
12-52337
41
A/67/PV.12
On  the  international  stage,  unilateral  actions  that 
defy  civility  and  international  law  are  growing  more 
frequent, and increasingly go unpunished. Despite the 
lessons of history, there are countries that still believe 
they can solve the political problems of our time through 
war and coercion. It does not matter to them that history 
has shown that the goal of domination through the use 
of  force  is  not  only  elusive  and  dangerous  but  also 
unsustainable.
Humankind derives no comfort from the potential 
conf lict  between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the 
Western  Powers  over  Iran’s  nuclear  programme.  That 
looming  crisis  can  be  avoided  not  through  the  threats 
being made against Iran, but through negotiations based 
on respect for sovereign equality and the recognition of 
the  rights  and  legitimate  fears  of  all  parties  involved. 
Our  generation  is  already  facing  too  many  problems. 
Surely we cannot afford another avoidable war.
We are saddened by the increasing tension in the East 
China Sea between two of the most respectable members 
of  the  international  community,  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China  and  Japan.  No  one  should  take  advantage  of 
the situation to fan the f lames of discord between those 
two great nations and ancient civilizations. Instead, we 
must  encourage  them  to  resolve  their  differences  with 
maturity and through peaceful dialogue.
In the Middle East, it is about time that individual 
interests  gave  way  to  compassion  and  reason,  so  that 
the  people  of  Palestine  can  enjoy  their  inalienable 
right to self-determination in our lifetimes. Two States 
existing  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  have  long 
been recognized by the international community as the 
only plausible route to enduring peace and stability in 
the region. The State of Israel must be prevailed upon 
to  support  that  solution.  It  must  stop  building  illegal 
settlements  on  Palestinian  lands,  which  have  the 
potential to render the prospects of a two-State solution 
irrelevant.
Our  call  for  lifting  the  economic  embargo  against 
the  Republic  of  Cuba  has  gone  unheeded  for  the  past 
20 years. Our thoughts are with the ordinary people of 
Cuba  who  for  decades  have  been  denied  the  fruits  of 
globalization  and  prosperity  through  no  fault  of  their 
own.  This  unfortunate  situation  has  continued  for  too 
long and must be resolved. We call on all stakeholders 
involved to search for a just and peaceful solution, just 
as  we  continue  to  call  on  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
to  cooperate  with  the  international  community  and 
facilitate  the  independence  and  self-determination  of 
the people of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Peace  within  and  among  nations  is  a  fundamental 
condition for development. The dream of a prosperous 
world will continue to be an illusion if tensions persist 
and  our  world  is  perpetually  at  war  with  itself.  That 
is  why  we  welcome  as  timely  and  relevant  the  choice 
of  theme  for  this  session,  “Bringing  about  adjustment 
or settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful means”.
Today,  many  nations  are 
rising  up  against 
dictatorial  regimes  in  defence  of  their  basic  human 
rights  and  freedoms.  The  popular  democratic  uprising 
in the Arab world has underscored the frustration of the 
people  with  longstanding  political  repression  and  lack 
of accountability. In some Arab countries this quest for 
freedom,  human  rights  and  democracy  has  been  met 
with  atrocious  force  and  brutality.  The  Government 
of  Syria  must  accept  the  popular  legitimacy  and 
supremacy  of  the  people’s  aspirations  before  it  is  too 
late. Further militarization of the situation in Syria will 
make the conf lict too costly in terms of human life. At 
the same time, we call on all countries to refrain from 
interfering in the internal affairs of Syria in a manner 
that undermines the prospects of peace in that country. 
True revolutions need no external sponsors. The efforts 
of  the  international  community  must  focus  on  helping 
the Syrian people find a negotiated, peaceful and lasting 
settlement of the ongoing conf lict in their country.
Africa, too, is trying hard to rid itself of wars and 
conf licts. While we thought we had dealt with the scourge 
of the coups d’état, it has recently reared its ugly head 
in a few African countries. We call on the international 
community  to  join  hands  with  the  African  Union  and 
stand  firm  in  refusing  to  recognize  any  Government 
that  comes  to  power  through  unconstitutional  means. 
It  is  indeed  a  mockery  of  the  United  Nations,  as  an 
Organization  that  cherishes  democratic  values  and 
principles,  to  accord  legitimacy  to  unconstitutional 
regimes by allowing them to participate in its activities 
on  an  equal  footing  with  bona  fide  Members.  In 
Africa,  we  have  adopted  a  policy  of  zero  tolerance  to 
unconstitutional  changes  of  Government,  and  have 
remained steadfast in our resolve to refuse to recognize 
Governments  that  have  no  democratic  legitimacy.  We 
urge the international community to support that policy 
and to make it universal.
42 
12-52337
Africa has not been without successes in pursuing 
the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. The United 
Nations, the African Union and other stakeholders have 
worked  together  with  the  Somali  authorities  to  pave 
the  way  for  peace  in  Somalia.  The  positive  results  of 
that joint effort are beginning to be visible. Remarkable 
strides  towards  democracy  and  State-building  have 
been registered. The election of the President less than 
two  weeks  ago  is  a  cause  for  celebration.  Today,  the 
people  of  Somalia  have  reason  to  hope  that  they  can 
put the unfortunate era of instability behind them. It is 
important  to  recognize,  however,  that  the  road  ahead 
for  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Somalia  is  still 
long and steep. The continued and unfaltering support 
of  the  international  community  is  indespensable  to 
ensuring that Somalia does not relapse into conf lict and 
become a failed State.
The  development  and  possession  of  nuclear  and 
other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  remains  a  serious 
concern  for  the  peace  and  security  of  humankind. 
Some States possess those weapons in large quantities 
and  have  not  remained  faithful  to  their  commitments 
under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.  Those  States  often  threaten  to  humiliate 
non-nuclear-weapon States. That is why other countries 
aspire  to  acquire  nuclear  weapons.  We  must  renew 
our  collective  commitment  to  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world  —  a  world  that  is  safe  for  future  generations, 
sustained  by  the  shared  values  of  universal  peace  and 
prosperity.
In the same way, for as long as international trade 
in  small  arms,  light  weapons  and  other  conventional 
weapons  remains  unregulated,  peace  will  continue  to 
elude  us.  The  failure  of  the  international  community, 
less than three months ago, to conclude a robust, legally 
binding arms trade treaty has left an indelible mark on 
our generation. We need to step up efforts during this 
sixty-seventh session and live up to our responsibilities. 
Conventional weapons, including small arms and light 
weapons,  are  the  real  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in 
Africa; they fuel conf lict and account for the death of 
scores of our people every day.
Across the globe, military and political repression 
have combined with religious intolerance to sustain the 
spectre of terrorism that continues to besiege our world. 
While the international community must address those 
root causes, there can be no acceptable justification for 
terrorism, because it is both brutal and indiscriminate, 
and  it  is  innocent  people,  including  women  and 
A/67/PV.12
children,  who  bear  the  brunt  of  it.  Lesotho  condemns 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  It  does 
not  matter  if  it  is  sponsored  by  States  or  individuals, 
or  whether  its  evil  schemes  are  carried  out  by  crude 
means or the most sophisticated weaponry. The recent 
murder  of  American  diplomats  in  Libya  demonstrates 
the brutality and senselessness of terrorism. It deserves 
our  strongest  condemnation.  We  extend  our  sincere 
condolences  to  the  people  and  Government  of  the 
United States of America.
A few days ago, we had an opportunity to reaffirm 
our resolve to uphold the rule of law both at the national 
and  international  levels.  Respect  for  the  rule  of  law  is 
a precondition for guaranteeing fundamental freedoms 
and respect for human rights. Similarly, strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level  is  critical  for 
effectively  addressing  our  current  global  challenges. 
International  law  is  the  very  foundation  of  peaceful 
coexistence between nations.
The  role  played  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  as  an  instrument  for  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  conf licts  and  the  bedrock  of  the  international  legal 
order  is  sacrosanct.  Lesotho  reaffirms  its  support  for 
the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and 
for other established international courts and tribunals. 
But  those  bodies  must  not  be  politicized,  so  that  they 
can retain their integrity and fairness.
It  is  almost  four  years  since  the  multiple  global 
crises befell us, yet the prospects for economic recovery 
remain gloomy. Evidence of climate change is all around 
us.  Extreme  weather  conditions,  f loods,  drought,  soil 
degradation and the rise of sea levels threaten the very 
existence  of  humankind.  In  my  country,  drought  and 
f loods  have  heightened  food  insecurity,  and  famine  is 
looming.  In  August,  my  Government  had  to  declare 
Lesotho  in  a  situation  of  food  crisis  and  called  on  its 
development partners to assist. That followed a severe 
drought  that  aff licted  Lesotho  in  the  last  planting 
season.  I  am  humbled  to  repeat  that  call  for  help 
before this body. Our response to the crisis will focus 
on  the  priorities  of  subsidizing  agricultural  input  and 
promoting drought-resistant crops, as well as scaling up 
conservation  farming  and providing  nutrition  services 
to mothers of infants and young children.
We  went  to  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  June  with  a 
determination to adopt ambitious and measurable steps 
to  address  sustainable  development.  Regrettably,  the 
Rio+20  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
12-52337
43
A/67/PV.12
Development  did  not  meet  everyone’s  expectations.  A 
lack of a concrete commitment by developed countries 
to  provide  developing  countries  with  financing  and 
technology is a source of concern. Nevertheless, there 
is  still  hope  that  a  sustainable  future  is  within  reach. 
We  must  continue  to  work  for  the  future  we  want  and 
deserve.
As  we  march  forward,  we  must  ensure  that  the 
formulation  of  the  sustainable  development  goals  and 
their interphase with the post-2015 development agenda 
is done carefully and in an inclusive manner. We must 
avoid  parallel  tracks  for  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) and the sustainable development goals, 
which  should  be  viewed  as  being  complementary  to, 
and not a substitute for, the MDGs.
The United Nations, which has remained the same 
for the past 67 years, cannot be effective in efficiently 
addressing  the  challenges  of  our  time.  The  need  for 
the  early  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular 
the  Security  Council,  was  universally  agreed  by  the 
international community at the World Summit in 2005. 
Yet, seven years later, negotiations on the reform of the 
Council  are  still  without  progress.  As  the  status  quo 
is maintained, the Council remains largely inept in the 
discharge  of  its  mandate.  Let  us  resolve  to  make  the 
Assembly’s sixty-seventh session one of action and less 
rhetoric.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  pointing  out  that  a 
responsive,  effective  and  efficient  multilateral  system 
is  the  only  answer  to  the  problems  of  the  twenty-first 
century. It must be a United Nations that draws on the 
full  diversity  of  its  membership.  With  the  necessary 
commitment and political will, that goal can indeed be 
attained.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister,  Head 
of  Government  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Police  and 
National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Thomas Motsoahae Thabane, Prime Minister, 
Head  of  Government  and  Minister  of  Defence, 
Police  and  National  Security  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lestho, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 2.30 p.m.
44 
12-52337
