United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
50th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 December 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.50
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Gaspar Martins 
(Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
Commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of 
the opening for signature of the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (resolution 67/5) 
Mr.  Dos  Santos  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It 
is  a  special  honour  for  my  delegation  to  speak  in  our 
national capacity and on behalf of the following States 
parties  to  the  Convention  from  our  region  —  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  theBahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Costa 
Rica,  Dominica,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
Jamaica, 
Panama,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname and Trinidad and 
Tobago — on the occasion of the commemoration of the 
thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  bearing  in  mind  the  particular 
importance  of  that  instrument  for  the  countries  of  the 
region.
Three quarters of our planet are covered by water, 
sustaining  the  lives  of  more  than  97  per  cent  of  all 
living  organisms.  The  oceans  inf luence  all  of  human 
activity  and  support  much  of  our  transportation,  and 
the  exploitation  of  the  resources  they  contain  is  vital 
to States.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  is  considered  to  be  one  of  the  most  important 
multilateral  instruments  in  history.  It  was  the  result 
of  a  great  collective  effort,  to  which  our  countries 
contributed  significantly.  There  are  currently  164 
States parties to the Convention. In fact, the Convention 
was  opened  for  signature  in  1982  in  a  country  of  our 
region, Jamaica, in Montego Bay, and came into force 
in 1994 after the sixtieth instrument of ratification was 
deposited  by  Guyana,  another  country  in  our  region. 
Our  region  also  played  a  very  active  role  during  the 
negotiation process and contributed significantly to the 
development of the norms that today govern the law of 
the sea. The positions taken and proposals made by the 
countries of our region had a decisive inf luence during 
the  three  preparatory  conferences  convened  by  the 
United Nations on the subject.
The  countries  of  our  region  have  demonstrated  a 
notable  interest  in  the  development  of  the  law  of  the 
sea, due to its significance for, among other things, the 
expansion  of  trade,  transportation  and  as  a  source  of 
food.  The  contribution  of  some  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  countries  has  been  particularly  relevant  in 
the  establishment  of  the  legal  regime  of  the  territorial 
sea,  the  exclusive  economic  zone  and  the  continental 
shelf.  The  200-nautical-mile  limit  was  a  legal  notion 
that  emerged  from  our  region,  supported  by  a  new 
concept:  the  sea  as  a  factor  in  development.  The  goal 
was  to  preserve  and  protect  marine  resources  and  to 
ensure permanent sovereignty over those resources and 
their use for the benefit of the peoples.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-63751 (E)
*1263751*
A/67/PV.50
The  Convention  incorporated  new  institutions, 
such  as  the  exclusive  economic  zone.  It  established 
definitions,  such  as  that  of  the  archipelagic  State, 
obligations  for  protecting  the  marine  environment, 
and  freedom  of  scientific  research,  among  others. 
Furthermore,  it  created  a  juridical  regime  regulating 
activities on the seabed and subsoil thereof, which were 
declared the common heritage of humankind. Another 
noteworthy  point  was  the  recognition  of  landlocked 
countries’  right  of  access  to  the  sea  and  freedom  of 
transit. In that context, we encourage all States parties 
to  implement  Part  X  of  the  Convention,  on  the  right 
of access of landlocked States to and from the sea and 
freedom of transit.
As  a  result,  we  arrived  at  an 
international 
instrument for the regulation of a common heritage of 
humankind,  as  proposed  by  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo 
of Malta, to whom we also pay tribute on this occasion. 
There  has  been  significant  progress  in  achieving  the 
objectives  of  the  Convention,  and  our  region  is  proud 
of  having  participated  actively  in  its  negotiation.  We 
therefore salute the negotiators from all countries, and 
the Convention itself.
is  pleased 
in 
to  participate 
Mrs.  Perceval  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina 
this 
commemoration  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  took  place  in  Montego 
Bay,  Jamaica,  on  10  December  1982.  One  look  at  a 
map  reveals  Argentina’s  connection  to  the  sea  in  its 
extensive  coastline  and  a  continental  shelf  that  slopes 
gently into the sea, with an outer edge that extends, for 
most of that coastline, beyond 200 miles.
The evolution of the law of the sea as it functions 
today  has  close  connections 
to  coastal  States, 
particularly  developing  coastal  States,  including  our 
country,  Argentina.  Until  the  1930s,  the  law  of  the 
sea  was  traditionally  marked  by  freedom  of  the  seas, 
as  Grotius  defined  it  in  the  seventeenth  century,  but 
by  the  1940s,  countries  with  major  seacoasts  began 
parallel efforts aimed at changing the focus of the law 
of the sea from one centred on the absolute freedom of 
use of the seas to one that would take into account the 
interests,  especially  economic,  of  coastal  States.  That 
decade witnessed the first claims, through declarations 
or national legislation, to maritime areas adjacent to the 
territory of a State beyond its territorial sea.
I  recall  that  Argentina’s  was  the  first  of  those 
claims. In 1944, my country proclaimed the Argentine 
epicontinental  sea,  which  included  the  water  column 
and  the  seabed  and  subsoil  beyond  the  territorial  sea. 
In  1945,  the  well-known  Truman  Declaration  was 
issued.  It  was  followed  by  many  internal  norms  and 
claims  in  the  form  of  declarations  by  Mexico,  Chile, 
Peru, Iceland, the Dominican Republic, Cuba and other 
States. It was pressure from coastal States, not content 
with a strip of sovereignty over the sea only three miles 
wide, that seriously shaped the negotiations that began 
in the 1970s.
The  final  impetus  needed  for  the  negotiation  of  a 
United Nations conference that, unlike the two previous 
ones, would address all aspects of the law of the sea was 
the  concern  that  arose  because  the  deep  seabed,  with 
its  enormous  mineral  deposits  known  as  polymetallic 
nodules,  was  the  setting  for  an  arms  race  in  a  time  of 
cold  war.  The  declaration  of  the  ocean  f loor  beyond 
the  limits  of  national  jurisdiction  and  its  resources  as 
the  common  heritage  of  humankind,  inf luenced  by 
the  dominating  new  international  economic  order,  led 
directly  to  the  convening  of  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  I  would  therefore 
like to endorse the well-deserved tribute to Ambassador 
Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta  for  his  visionary  speech  here in 
1967 (see A/C.1/PV.1515).
The  1973  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  set 
several records. It was the first conference with massive 
participation of new United Nations Members that had 
acquired  their  independence  through  the  process  of 
decolonization.  It  was  the  first  conference  in  which 
non-governmental organizations took part and at which, 
all elements being so closely linked, negotiations were 
by  consensus  on  the  basis  of  a  gentlemen’s  agreement 
called the package deal. It was also the first conference 
to  provide  a  comprehensive  regime  for  the  protection 
and preservation of the environment — in this case, the 
marine environment.
The  Convention  adopted  in  1982  fully  met  its 
objective  to  “settle  …  all  issues  relating  to  the  law 
of  the  sea”  in  a  single  instrument.  Its  relevance  is 
truly  remarkable.  Allow  me  to  recall  just  some  of  the 
noteworthy aspects of the Convention.
The  sovereignty  of  the  coastal  State  over  the 
exploration for and exploitation of natural resources and 
its jurisdiction regarding protection and preservation of 
the marine environment in a 200-mile-wide strip — since 
then  known  as  the  exclusive  economic  zone  —  was 
one  of  the  most  significant  concepts  enshrined  in 
2 
12-63751
the  Convention.  Another  was 
the  crystallization, 
under  the  Convention,  of  the  exclusive  sovereignty 
of  the  coastal  State  over  its  entire  continental  shelf 
independent of occupation, effective or notional, or of 
any express proclamation. In addition, the legal system 
for marine scientific research provided for in Part XIII 
of the Convention does nothing more than reaffirm the 
sovereign  rights  of  the  coastal  State  regarding  those 
two marine areas.
However,  the  truly  revolutionary  element  was 
the  legal  system  for  the  area.  The  preamble  to  the 
Convention sets out the objective:
“to  develop  the  principles  embodied  in  resolution 
2749 (XXV) … in which the General Assembly of 
the United Nations solemnly declared inter alia that 
the area of the seabed and ocean f loor and the subsoil 
thereof, beyond  the  limits  of  national jurisdiction, 
as well as its resources, are the common heritage of 
mankind, the exploration and exploitation of which 
shall be carried out for the benefit of mankind as a 
whole”. 
Part  XI  sets  out  a  legal  system  for  the  exploration  for 
and  exploitation  of  minerals,  but  its  principles,  which 
emanate  from  resolution  2749  (XXV),  apply  to  the 
whole  Area,  for  “the  Area  and  its  resources  are  the 
common heritage of mankind”.
Another revolutionary dimension of the Convention 
on the Law of the Sea, which reaffirms its comprehensive 
nature  as  the  entire  legal  system  for  oceans  and  seas, 
was the establishment of three institutions. 
The  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf  has  worked  tirelessly  since  its  establishment. 
Argentina  recognizes  the  efforts  of  the  Commission’s 
members  and  the  support  provided  by  the  Secretariat. 
It  encourages  all  necessary  support  measures  for  the 
Commission to work expeditiously and effectively.
The  International  Seabed  Authority  continues 
to  develop  norms,  on  the  basis  of  the  standards  of 
the  Convention,  for  prospecting  and  exploring  for 
and  exploiting  minerals  in  the  Area.  It  has  also  made 
progress  in  developing  norms  for  the  protection 
and  preservation  of  the  Area’s  marine  environment, 
pursuant to the mandate arising from article 145 of the 
Convention.
Finally, I would like to stress that the International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  has  already  tried  20 
cases, involving different aspects of the law of the sea. 
A/67/PV.50
Among them, the 2011 advisory opinion issued by the 
Seabed  Disputes  Chamber,  On  Responsibilities  and 
Obligations  of  States  sponsoring  persons  and  entities 
with  respect  to  activities  in  the  Area,  represents  the 
first  time  that  those  two  bodies  established  by  the 
Convention  were  connected  in  the  way  foreseen  in 
article  191.  The  advisory  opinion  clearly  shows  the 
commitment  of  States  to  the  legal  system  established 
for  the  Area  by  the  Convention  and  the  centrality  of 
the Tribunal as an institution. Argentina welcomes the 
fact  that  the  Tribunal  has  been  strengthening  its  body 
of law as the specialized tribunal for the law of the sea 
envisaged  when  the  Convention  was  negotiated  and, 
as  the  latest  events  show,  that  it  has  a  leading  role  in 
maintaining the integrity of international law, an aspect 
on which we agree with the President of the Tribunal, 
Mr. Yanai. 
Today,  the  Convention  has  164  parties,  a  meeting 
of  States  parties  ever  more  dynamic  with  regard  to 
substantive  issues,  and  follow-up  by  the  General 
Assembly  and  its  working  groups.  The  Convention 
represents a delicate balance of rights, obligations and 
interests that we must continue to preserve. To that end, 
the  General  Assembly,  the  specialized  agencies  with 
competence in ocean issues, regional organizations and 
the  Secretariat  must  continue  to  keep  their  activity  in 
line with the Convention.
In  June  this  year,  the  twenty-second  Meeting  of 
States  Parties  to  the  Convention  adopted  a  special 
commemorative declaration that recalls 
“the  pre-eminent  contribution  provided  by  the 
Convention to the strengthening of peace, security, 
cooperation and friendly relations among all nations 
in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and 
equal rights and to the promotion of the economic 
and social advancement of all peoples of the world, 
in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  United  Nations  as  set  forth  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  to  the  sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas”.
Our  country,  Argentina,  and  our  Mission  to  the 
United  Nations  wishes  to  pay  tribute  to  the  members 
of  the  Argentine  delegation  to  the  Third  Conference 
on the Law of the Sea, the negotiators of all countries, 
the public officials of Argentina and all countries that 
worked for the ratification of the Convention, and to the 
Secretariat, represented today by the efficient Division 
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea.
12-63751
3
A/67/PV.50
Mr.  Charles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  is  honoured  to  participate  in  this  event 
commemorating the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the 1982 United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier today by the representative of Jamaica on behalf 
of  the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(see A/67/PV.49). 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  signed  the  Convention  on 
10  December  1982,  when  it  was  opened  for  signature 
at  the  close  of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica.  Our 
delegation to that Conference was led by the late Lennox 
Ballah,  who  was  one  of  the  staunchest  advocates  of 
the  Convention  and  who  later  became  a  judge  of  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS). 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  was  therefore  among  the  first 
group  of  States  to  have  signaled  its  intention  to  be 
bound by this landmark treaty, which we accept as the 
constitution  of  the  oceans  and  seas.  In  1986,  Trinidad 
and Tobago ratified the Convention, thereby expressing 
its  consent  to  be  bound  by  that  instrument,  which 
entered into force for the country on 16 November 1994.
Over the past 30 years, much has happened in the life 
of the Convention for Trinidad and Tobago and the other 
members of the international community as a whole. We 
have  witnessed  the  almost  universal  reach  of  a  treaty, 
which more than any other agreement has established a 
firm basis for the preservation and promotion of the rule 
of law in our oceans and seas. Today 164 States parties 
rely on the Convention as the basis for the conduct of all 
of their activities in the maritime areas both within and 
beyond national jurisdiction. Trinidad and Tobago also 
enacted legislation in 1986 to give domestic legal effect 
to the provisions of the Convention.
As  a  State  party,  having  satisfied  the  criteria 
laid  down  in  Part  IV  of  the  Convention,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago was able to declare itself an archipelagic State 
and  is  recognized  globally  as  having  that  status.  The 
creation  of  the  200-nautical-mile  exclusive  economic 
zone  together  with  the  regime  of  the  continental  shelf 
under the Convention has allowed Trinidad and Tobago, 
as  one  of  the  oldest  producers  of  hydrocarbons  in  the 
world,  to  expand  its  production  beyond  land-based 
sources  and  areas  closer  to  the  shore  to  areas  farther 
out on the continental shelf. 
It  is  our  expectation  that  jurisdiction  over  our 
continental  shelf  will  extend  even  further.  We  await  a 
recommendation  from  the  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of the Continental Shelf based on our submission to it 
in  2009.  That  submission  seeks  to  establish  the  outer 
limits  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s  continental  shelf  in 
accordance  with  article  76,  paragraph  8  and  annex  II, 
article 4 of the Convention.
Over  the  past  three  decades,  we  have  relied  on 
the  provisions  of  the  Convention  as  the  basis  for 
engagement  in  matters  beyond  the  exploitation  of  the 
living  and  non-living  resources  of  the  maritime  zones 
over which we exercise jurisdiction in accordance with 
international law. For example, Trinidad and Tobago has 
been able to conclude agreements relating to maritime 
boundary  delimitation  and  the  sustainable  use  of 
fisheries resources with neighbouring coastal States, in 
keeping  with  the  provisions  of  the  Convention.  Those 
bilateral  treaties  have  been  either  concluded  through 
negotiations  or  settled  by  arbitration,  as  provided  for 
under Part XV and annex VII of the instrument. We in 
Trinidad and Tobago have also established an Institute 
of Marine Affairs to assist in the creation of mechanisms 
to preserve and protect the marine environment, as well 
as to engage in scientific research in the maritime zones 
under our jurisdiction. 
Trinidad  and  Tobago’s  commitment  to  honouring 
its  obligations  that  f low  from  the  Convention  was 
further demonstrated in 2007, when we deposited with 
the Secretary-General a declaration pursuant to article 
287  of  the  Convention  accepting  the  jurisdiction  of 
ITLOS  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  concerning  the 
interpretation and application of the Convention.
More  than  any  other  international  treaty,  the 
Convention  is  a  ref lection  of  the  will  of  the  global 
community to conclude a framework agreement that not 
only  recognizes  the  sovereignty  and  sovereign  rights 
of  coastal  States,  but  also  the  rights  of  other  States  to 
benefit from the resources of our oceans and seas. 
In  the  Assembly  today,  we  are  privileged  to  have 
among  us  some  of  the  founding  fathers  who  were 
present  in  Montego  Bay  in  1982  and  who  helped 
to  shape  what  is  widely  regarded  as  one  of  the  most 
significant  treaties  adopted  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United  Nations.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  recognizes  the 
heroic  and  pioneering  efforts  of  Ambassador  Tommy 
Koh of Singapore, President of the Third United Nations 
Conference on the Law of the Sea, and our good friend 
4 
12-63751
Ambassador  Satya  Nandan  of  Fiji,  former  Secretary-
General  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority,  who 
also  played  a  major  role  in  the  creation  of  the  1994 
Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of 
the Convention. Those illustrious international lawyers 
and  diplomats,  and  others  as  well,  ensured  that  the 
Convention  also  ref lected  and  protected  the  interests, 
needs and aspirations of developing countries.
Due  to  natural  or  geographic  factors,  not  all 
States  are  similarly  circumstanced.  Not  all  countries 
are  coastal  States.  Some  are 
landlocked,  others 
disadvantaged.  The  Convention, 
geographically 
however,  makes  provisions  for  such  States  to  benefit 
from,  for  example,  the  resources  of  the  seabed  and 
subsoil in the areas beyond national jurisdiction, which 
is widely accepted as the common heritage of mankind. 
Today,  therefore,  the  international  community  owes  a 
debt of gratitude to the late Ambassador Arvid Pardo of 
Malta for his vision in bringing to the fore this concept, 
which  has  become  one  of  the  most  seminal  norms  in 
international law.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  accepts  that  the  Convention 
is not a perfect instrument. However, we submit that it 
is  an  accord  unlike  any  other.  Over  the  next  30  years, 
the  international  community  must  quicken  the  pace 
towards  global  adherence  to  UNCLOS.  We  must  also, 
inter  alia,  ensure  that  article  82  of  the  Convention  is 
implemented  in  an  equitable  manner,  in  keeping  with 
the object and purpose of the Convention. In this regard, 
we  commend  the  International  Seabed  Authority  for 
doing  the  preparatory  work  on  that  dormant  article. 
We  also  commend  the  Authority  for  the  efficient 
management  of  the  resources  entrusted  to  it,  enabling 
it  to  produce  codes,  which  can  be  used  as  guides  for 
States parties in exploring and prospecting for mineral 
resources in the Area for the benefit of humankind as a 
whole. The international community must also agree on 
the  conclusion  of  an  implementation  agreement  under 
the  Convention  to  cover  marine  biodiversity  in  areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction,  so  that  those  resources 
will  be  explored  and  exploited  for  the  benefit  of  all 
humanity and not solely for benefit of a few States.
In  closing,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  wishes  to  renew 
its  commitment  to  working  with  States  parties  and 
other  States  for  the  full  and  effective  implementation 
of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  in  order  to  enable 
the resources of our oceans and seas to be utilized in a 
sustainable manner for the benefit of current and future 
generations.
A/67/PV.50
Mr.  Haase  (Australia):  On  behalf  of  Australia,  I 
wish to express our warm appreciation for this plenary 
meeting  devoted  to  the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea. 
Thirty years ago today, the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  was  opened  for  signature  in 
Montego Bay, Jamaica. It was a triumph of international 
diplomacy  and  international  law,  resulting  from  the 
Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea,  one  of  the  longest  and  most  complex  lawmaking 
negotiations in history.
Today, 30 years on, the Convention and the norms 
it  embodies  can  be  counted  among  the  core  group  of 
international instruments that we call “universal”. The 
promise of the Convention is a framework within which 
all States can be secure and prosper through interaction 
on the basis of an agreed, rules-based system.
Australia  is  the  sixth  largest  country  in  land  area 
and  the  world’s  largest  island  State,  with  the  third-
largest  marine  jurisdiction  in  the  world.  We  straddle 
three oceans — the Pacific, the Indian and the Southern. 
We are home to one of the world’s largest repositories 
of marine biodiversity — the Great Barrier Reef. And 
we  rely  on  maritime  transport  for  over  80  per  cent  of 
the  volume  of  our  international  trade.  For  Australia, 
the  rules, 
institutions  and  principles  established 
through  the  Convention  are  of  crucial  importance  to 
our  national  security,  our  continuing  prosperity  and 
our relationships with other countries, particularly our 
neighbours.
Thirty  years  ago,  Australia  signalled  its  strong 
commitment to the Convention by signing it in Montego 
Bay  immediately  upon  its  opening.  We  were  the  third 
country to become a party to both the Convention and 
the  1994  Agreement  relating  to  the  implementation  of 
Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea of 10 December 1982, which together embody 
our constitution for the oceans.
Time and again throughout the world, Australia has 
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  that  system  through 
our  actions.  Through  technical  and  legal  assistance 
we  are  helping  countries  in  our  region  and  beyond  to 
realize the economic potential of their continental shelf 
resources. Since our own submission to the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  which  defined 
the  outer  limits  of  our  2.54-million  square  kilometre 
extended  continental  shelf,  we  have  worked  with  over 
20  States  in  that  way.  Through  information  exchange, 
outreach and on-the-water cooperation, we are working 
12-63751
5
A/67/PV.50
with  our  Pacific  and  Southern  Ocean  partners  to 
promote compliance with the Convention and to thwart 
the  theft  of  valuable  but  finite  marine  resources. 
Through financial assistance we are helping developing 
countries  to  implement  the  1995  Agreement  for  the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks  in  order  to  enhance  fisheries  management 
through  a  recognition  of  the  role  of  fisheries  and 
aquaculture in livelihoods and food security.
We  have 
shown  our  commitment 
through 
multilateral  pledges  to  support  food  security,  poverty 
alleviation  and  environmental  initiatives,  including 
$25 million for the Pacific Oceanscape Framework and 
$13  million  for  the  Coral  Triangle  Initiative  on  Coral 
Reefs, Fisheries and Food Security.
We  supported 
the 
interests  of  small 
island 
developing  States  and  coastal  States  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  held  in  June  2012,  and  we  worked  to  ensure 
that the Rio+20 outcome recognized the importance of 
oceans  for  sustainable  development.  We  have  worked 
to  strengthen  the  ability  of  competent  organizations 
at  the  local,  regional  and  national  levels  to  better 
deal  with  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  such  as  by 
boosting the capacity of regional fisheries management 
organizations so as to promote sustainable management 
of fisheries and better oceans management.
As  we  ref lect  on  where  we  have  come  from  and 
where  we  are  going  with  the  Convention,  one  thing  is 
certain — the international law of the sea has not stood 
still and cannot stand still. It continues to evolve as new 
challenges emerge.
Climate change and the need to achieve genuinely 
sustainable  fisheries  across  the  globe,  as  demand  for 
food  increases,  are  just  two  of  many  challenges  that 
we face. As the drafters of the Convention wrote in its 
preamble,  we  need  to  be  “conscious  that  the  problems 
of  ocean  space  are  closely  interrelated  and  need  to 
be  considered  as  a  whole”.  That  should  be  a  guiding 
principle going forward.
In that context, Australia welcomes the urgent call 
issued at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development 
the 
conservation  of  marine  biodiversity  beyond  national 
jurisdiction.  We  are  encouraged  that  States  agreed  on 
to  address  matters  relating 
to 
a time frame in which a decision on whether to develop 
an  international  instrument  under  the  Convention 
should be taken.
Australia  is  conﬁ dent  that  the  Convention  —  a 
fundamental, pioneering, visionary legal instrument  —  
can  continue  to  develop  in  response  to  emerging 
challenges,  and  we  will  continue  to  play  a  strong  and 
constructive  role  in  that  endeavour,  over  the  next  30 
years and beyond.
Mr.  Jacovides  (Cyprus):  I  consider  it  a  privilege 
to represent the Republic of Cyprus at this significant 
event marking of the thirtieth anniversary of the signing 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  (UNCLOS).  Having  led  my  country’s  delegation 
during that Conference, I had the honour of signing the 
resultant  Convention  on  behalf  of  Cyprus  at  Montego 
Bay  in  Jamaica,  together  with  my  colleague  James 
Droushiotis, who is also participating in this meeting.
The Conference was rightly described as the most 
significant  multilateral  lawmaking  undertaking  since 
the  United  Nations  Charter  was  adopted  in  1945,  and 
the  Convention  is  seen  as  the  veritable  constitution  of 
the seas and oceans. All those who value international 
legal  order  and  who  toiled  long  and  hard  to  bring 
about  that  result  —  and  I  am  pleased  to  see  many  of 
them gathered here today, including President Tommy 
Koh  —  well  deserve  the  satisfaction  that  they  justly 
derived from that major accomplishment.
The  Conference  was  aimed  at  re-examining,  and, 
where appropriate, recasting virtually all aspects of the 
law of the sea. It combined the element of codification 
with  that  of  progressive  development,  with  emphasis 
on  the  latter.  It  was  thus  a  lawmaking  conference  in 
the  full  sense  of  the  word.  New  and  revolutionary 
concepts  were  introduced  and  elaborated,  such  as  the 
common heritage of humankind, the archipelagic State 
and — something of particular significance to Cyprus 
in  light  of  recent  discoveries  of  hydrocarbons  —  the 
exclusive economic zone. On the other hand, it has been 
found  that  other  aspects  of  the  law  of  the  sea,  such  as 
freedom  of  the  high  seas  and  the  regime  of  islands, 
have stood the test of time and should remain as before, 
thus  demonstrating  that  novelty  is  not  necessarily 
synonymous  with  progress.  On  the  whole,  the  third 
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea was 
characterized  by  a  judicious  blending  of  elements  of 
progressive  or  even  revolutionary  change  in  some 
respects, with those of stability and continuity in other 
6 
12-63751
respects,  thus  helping  to  preserve  a  balance  between 
conf licting claims and interests.
convened 
against 
The  Conference  was 
a 
background  of  the  then  recent  transformation  of  the 
international  community,  caused  by  many  new  States 
coming  into  existence  with  the  end  of  the  colonial 
empires  and  advances  in  technology,  which  brought 
opportunities for obtaining new resources from the sea 
and  the  seabed.  Newly  independent  States  —  Cyprus 
among  them  —  which  did  not  have  the  opportunity 
to  participate  in  the  formulation  of  the  traditional 
law  of  the  sea,  felt  that  they  should  play  a  full  role  in 
moulding the contemporary law of the sea in a way that 
safeguarded and promoted their political and economic 
interests.
Cyprus, an island State that is at the crossroads of 
three continents — namely, Europe, Asia and Africa — is 
vitally concerned with the legal regulation of the uses of 
the sea in a just and orderly manner, ensuring fairness 
and  predictability.  According  to  legend,  it  was  off  the 
coast of Cyprus that Aphrodite, the goddess of love and 
beauty, was born rising from the glittering foam of the 
blue sea, near Paphos. According to geology, the island 
of Cyprus arose from the seabed, emerging as a result 
of  the  tectonic  plates  of  Africa  pushing  north  and  of 
Asia  Minor  pushing  south.  According  to  history,  our 
seafaring  tradition  and  involvement  with  the  sea  go 
back  more  than  3,000  years.  Today  shipping  and  ship 
management  are  still  a  major  industry.  There  was  a 
time in the eighth century B.C. when Cyprus, with its 
ample  supply  of  timber  for  shipbuilding,  was  known 
as the “mistress of the seas”, and in the fourth century 
B.C., the Cypriot kingdoms built the bulk of the f leet of 
Alexander the Great. 
Our past, present and future are inexorably meshed 
with the sea and its uses, most recently the ample supply 
of hydrocarbons in our exclusive economic zone. In the 
European  context,  Cyprus,  through  its  presidency  of 
the  Council  of  the  European  Union,  which  is  coming 
to  a  close  at  the  end  of  this  month,  has  promoted  the 
Integrated Maritime Policy, culminating in the adoption 
of the Limassol Declaration on a marine and maritime 
agenda for jobs and growth. The Limassol Declaration 
has  been  described  as  the  point  of  departure  for  the 
sustainable growth of a blue economy and for achieving 
a good environmental status of marine waters by 2020.
On occasions such as this, one might be permitted a 
brief look backwards, because of sentiment as well as of 
A/67/PV.50
reason, and view our aims and objectives from a broad 
perspective, including when the Conference began and 
to what extent those aims have been met, both in terms 
of the substantive provisions and the peaceful settlement 
of disputes, as the issues of primary concern to Cyprus. 
It  can  be  said  with  conviction  and,  perhaps,  with  a 
certain  amount  of  satisfaction  that  those  objectives 
have, to a large extent, been met, both in terms of our 
national  interest  and  from  the  broader  perspective  of 
the interests of the international community.
In  order  to  very  brief ly  indicate  some  of  those 
concerns,  I  will  cite  the  extent  of  the  territorial 
waters,  which,  under  article  3  of  the  Convention,  is 
based  on  the  general  rule  of  12  nautical  miles,  which 
Cyprus had already claimed since 1964; the position of 
islands, which, under article 121, clearly vindicates our 
strongly held view that islands are fully entitled to all 
the  zones  of  maritime  jurisdiction,  namely,  territorial 
sea,  contiguous  zone,  exclusive  economic  zone  and 
continental shelf, no less than any other land territory; 
the  question  of  enclosed  and  semi-enclosed  seas, 
articles  122  and  123;  the  question  of  the  delimitation 
of  the  zones  of  maritime  jurisdiction  between  States 
with  opposite  or  adjacent  coasts,  articles  15,  74  and 
83;  questions  on  the  protection  of  archaeological  and 
historical  objects  found  at  sea,  articles  149  and  303; 
and  the  protection  of  the  environment,  and  so  forth. 
Likewise,  the  system  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes,  very  important,  especially  for  the  protection 
of small States, while not as far-reaching as we would 
have  preferred,  marks  a  significant  advance  from  the 
previously existing situation.
Having played an active role during the Conference, 
Cyprus  was  among  the  first  to  sign  and  ratify  the 
Convention  and  subsequent  agreements.  With  164 
States  parties  and,  hopefully,  more  to  come  soon, 
the  Convention  has  achieved  near  universality,  and 
it  is  generally  acknowledged  that  its  provisions  have 
acquired the status of customary rules of international 
law  and  are  therefore  binding  on  all  States.  In  that 
context,  we  were  pleased  to  hear  this  morning  the 
statement by the United States.
Indeed,  the  Convention  could  not  and  did  not 
fully satisfy all delegations in all respects, despite the 
clarity  that  it  provides  on  issues  of  jurisdiction.  One 
could  point  to  ambiguities  where  there  should  have 
been  clarity,  to  complexities  where  there  could  have 
been streamlining, and to exceptions where there could 
have been general rules. But it had to be accepted that 
12-63751
7
A/67/PV.50
compromises,  necessitated  by  the  need  to  arrive  at 
consensus, had to be the price for reaching a successful 
conclusion to a complicated and ambitious undertaking. 
The Convention and its dispute settlement system go a 
long way in an imperfect world to meeting this need. 
Cyprus, 
in  compliance  with 
the  Convention, 
proclaimed  its  exclusive  economic  zone  in  2004  and, 
pursuant  to  article  74,  signed  delimitation  agreements 
of  its  zone  with  three  of  its  neighbouring  countries 
to  the  south  and  east  on  the  basis  of  the  medial  line 
and  with  a  provision  for  arbitration  if  needed.  Based 
on  the  proclamation  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone 
and  the  relevant  delimitation  agreements,  Cyprus 
exercises  sovereign  rights  and  jurisdiction  in  relation 
to areas beyond and adjacent to its territorial sea for the 
purposes set out in article 56 of the Convention, which 
also ref lects customary international law. 
In addition, Cyprus has, as a matter of international 
law, inherent sovereign rights over the continental shelf 
covering the same area, which it exercises in conformity 
with article 77. In particular, in relation to hydrocarbon 
resources, the Republic of Cyprus has exclusive sovereign 
rights,  inter  alia,  for  the  purpose  of  exploration  and 
exploitation in its exclusive economic zone and over its 
continental shelf and has already embarked on drilling 
activities  for  hydrocarbon  exploration  in  the  southern 
part of its exclusive economic zone’s continental shelf. 
As in all countries in the world, the sovereign rights in 
the  exclusive  economic  zone  belong  to  internationally 
recognized Governments, not to national communities 
or minorities within a State.
It is our firm belief that all States should mutually 
respect  the  lawful  exercise  of  their  neighbours’  rights 
in  the  sea  areas  where  each  State  has  sovereignty  or 
sovereign rights and exercises jurisdiction in accordance 
with  the  Convention.  On  that  basis,  Cyprus  already 
promotes  peaceful  cooperation  on  the  exploration  and 
exploitation  of  natural  resources,  in  accordance  with 
the  Convention,  with  and  between  all  the  States  in 
the  south-eastern  Mediterranean,  in  order  to  achieve 
sustainable  development  and  prosperity  for  the  entire 
region.  Cooperation,  in  that  respect,  can  contribute  to 
regional  integration  and  conf lict  resolution,  and  we 
strongly call on all States in the region to refrain from 
acting  or  threatening  to  act  in  violation  of  Article  2, 
paragraph 4, of the Charter of the United Nations.
To conclude, as I began, on a positive note, today’s 
event marking the thirtieth anniversary of the signing of 
this  major  accomplishment  in  multilateral  lawmaking 
deserves  to  be  celebrated  for  what  was  achieved  at 
the  time  and  what  has  been  achieved  since  through 
judicial  practice  —  and  we  heard  this  morning  from 
Judge Greenwood and Judge Yanai — and the practice 
of States, towards the rule of law in the seas and oceans 
and the peaceful resolution of disputes among States.
Mrs.  Niang  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
preparing  the  report  contained  in  document  A/67/79 
and addenda 1 and 2, on oceans and the law of the sea. 
These documents provide us with valuable information 
concerning  developments  in  maritime  and  law  of  the 
sea issues.
The  consideration  of  this  agenda  item  coincides 
this year with the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for  signature  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea.  Allow  me  therefore,  on  behalf  of 
the  Senegalese  delegation,  to  pay  exuberant  tribute 
to  the  pioneers  —  both  men  and  women  —  who 
worked tirelessly over many years on the drafting and 
ratification  of  the  Convention.  That  legal  instrument 
has ultimately convinced even the most skeptical of its 
relevance, usefulness and benefit to all humankind and 
now enjoys accession by 162 States parties, representing 
the overwhelming majority of States.
Thus, and thanks in large part to the Convention, the 
law of the sea is now one of the most complete bodies of 
international law. It plays a crucial role in establishing 
a safe international environment through its use in the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  by  such  international 
tribunals  as  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  With  a 
view  to  achieving  the  noble  goals  underpinning  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, it is 
essential that all bodies established under it be provided 
with  sufficient  resources  to  effectively  carry  out  their 
mandates.
The  oceans  and  seas  cover  the  largest  part  of  our 
planet’s  surface  and  continue  to  represent  enormous 
economic potential and a true factor of development for 
the  entire  world.  Indeed,  their  great  wealth  of  natural 
resources  contributes  enormously  to  global  prosperity 
and food security, while remaining the best platform for 
international trade. That is why, from an international 
perspective 
increasingly 
confronted with recurring acute and multifaceted crises 
that further undermine and strain economic prospects, 
the  world 
in  which 
is 
8 
12-63751
the sustainable management and use of oceans and their 
resources  today  appear  key  to  the  survival  of  a  large 
segment  of  current  and  future  generations.  From  that 
point of view, our actions and approach must continue 
to lead us to unite our forces and coordinate our efforts 
in  order  to  transform  the  sustainable  management  of 
oceans and seas into reality.
I  am  pleased  to  note  that,  in  that  spirit,  we  have 
established  the  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative 
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, based on the 
provisions  of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea and the goals of chapter 17 of Agenda 
21, thereby responding to the concern to strengthen and 
improve  international  coordination  and  cooperation 
in  the  area  of  oceans  and  seas,  among  others.  The 
process  serves  as  an  important  instrument  to  support 
the  sustainable  development  of  seas  and  oceans,  and 
seeks  to  develop  an  integrated,  multidisciplinary  and 
intersectoral  approach  comprising  various  relevant 
aspects. 
For  that  reason,  the  discussions  of  the  thirteenth 
meeting  of  the  Consultative  Process,  held  in  New 
York  in  June,  were  focused  on  renewable  marine 
energies. The ocean and seas, because of their immense 
potential  in  that  area,  constitute  an  important  vector 
for  developing  related  energy  sources  to  deal  with  a 
worrisome  energy  crisis  that  risks  deteriorating  even 
further  in  the  decades  to  come,  absent  significant 
progress in developing alternative energy. 
In  terms  of  sustainable  development  efforts  and 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
renewable  energy  today  appears  to  be  increasingly 
necessary in our struggle for universal access to energy 
and  enhanced  economic  and  social  development.  We 
would  hope  that  the  recommendations  that  resulted 
from the meeting and were transmitted to the General 
Assembly  will  be  the  object  of  that  body’s  particular 
attention. 
In  managing  the  finite  resources  of  the  oceans 
and  seas,  we  must  always  keep  in  mind  the  balance 
necessary  to  fully  meet  our  needs  while  safeguarding 
the  interests  of  future  generations.  Along  those  lines, 
the  protection  of  the  marine  environment  and  the 
sustainable  and  responsible  conservation  and  use  of 
marine biological resources are essential.
From  that  perspective,  such  harmful  practices 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing, 
fishing  or  even  marine  pollution 
as 
unsustainable 
A/67/PV.50
represent  serious  threats  to  sustainable  fisheries  and 
the  preservation  of  marine  ecosystems.  In  depleting 
fish  stocks  and  destroying  marine  habitats  and 
their  natural  renewal  cycles,  illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  fishing  remains  the  most  worrisome 
problem, in particular for developing countries lacking 
the  necessary  mechanisms  to  control  their  maritime 
areas.  Consequently,  supplementary  measures  are 
needed  to  further  combat  that  growing  phenomenon 
and its devastating consequences. 
Another  problematic  area  is  the  legal  status  of 
new  resources,  particularly  of  deep  seabed  genetic 
resources, which remains a subject of dispute between 
Member States. In that regard, in accordance with the 
spirit  of  the  relevant  international  conventions,  we 
reiterate  our  consistent  position  and  belief  that  those 
resources  should  be  governed  by  the  principle  of  the 
common heritage of humankind in order to ensure their 
fair and equal use by all peoples of the world.
Mr. León González (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Cuba 
joins in the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS),  which  is  a  fundamental  landmark  in  the 
codification of international law that has been ratified 
by the vast majority of the States Members of the United 
Nations. The Convention is of fundamental importance 
in  maintaining  and  strengthening  peace,  stability  and 
the sustainable development of the oceans and the seas. 
It embodies an appropriate and universally recognized 
legal  framework  under  which  all  activities  involving 
the oceans and seas should be carried out.
The Cuban delegation believes that matters of such 
great  importance  as  those  related  to  the  oceans  and 
the  law  of  the  sea  should  be  permanently  supervised 
by  the  General  Assembly  in  order  to  guarantee  the 
strengthened  coordination  of  those  activities  to  the 
benefit  of  all  Member  States.  Cuba  highlights  the 
important  and  continued  assistance  role  of  the  United 
Nations Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the 
Sea. 
Given that Cuba is an island located in the fragile 
ecosystem of the Caribbean Sea, matters relating to the 
seas and oceans are of particular interest to us. Despite 
suffering  from  an  economic,  trade  and  financial 
blockade for more than 50 years, my country has pursued 
its  determined  effort  to  implement  national  strategies 
on  the  sustainable  development  and  protection  of  the 
marine  environment  aimed  at  the  efficient,  effective 
12-63751
9
A/67/PV.50
and  progressive  application  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention.
Cuba  has  sound  national  legislation  addressing 
crimes  that  take  place  at  sea,  in  particular  the  illicit 
trafficking  of  narcotic  drugs  and  psychotropic 
substances,  illegal  human  trafficking  and  piracy. 
My  country  is  also  endowed  with  an  institutional 
body  devoted  not  only  to  ensuring  compliance  with 
international  norms,  but  also 
to  protecting  and 
preserving of ecosystems and the environment.
Cuba has worked intensively to strengthen bilateral 
and  regional  cooperation  based  on  provisions  of 
international  law,  with  due  respect  for  safeguarding 
States’ sovereign jurisdiction over their territorial seas 
and  the  management  of  resources  in  their  exclusive 
economic  zone.  We  advocate  the  broad  exchange  of 
scientific and technical knowledge, as well as the free 
transfer  of  sustainable  technologies  and  increased 
financial  and 
to  developing 
countries.
technical  assistance 
It  is  important  to  preserve  the  integrity  of  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
the  implementation  of  its  provisions  as  a  whole.  It  is 
not acceptable for Member States to address matters of 
vital importance, such as those relating to the seas and 
oceans, through parallel initiatives outside the General 
Assembly and the United Nations system.
it 
is  necessary 
that 
Cuba  further  believes 
to 
continue  to  work  to  guarantee  that  all  States  without 
exception  will benefit  from  the  resources  in  the  Area, 
including  its  biodiversity  and  genetic  resources.  It  is 
our responsibility to work to realize the principle of the 
common heritage of humankind for those resources, as 
clearly  established  in  the  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  cannot  allow  them  to  be 
patented by transnational enterprises. Those resources 
are  not  the  exclusive  patrimony  of  a  group  of  States 
with  the  material  and  financial  resources  to  develop 
the  wealth  of  the  Area.  The  international  community 
must work to ensure that benefits are equitable and not 
affect the marine environment or ecosystems. We must 
also protect the ability of a State to exercise sovereignty 
over  the  resources  in  its  exclusive  economic  zone  and 
continental shelf.
We  are  therefore  concerned  about  policies  and 
initiatives that undermine the regime of the Convention 
and  that  may  lead  to  decisions  being  taken  outside 
of  the  General  Assembly.  An  example  of  that  is  the 
current approach to new sustainable uses of the oceans, 
including  the  conservation  and  management  of  the 
biological  diversity  in  the  seabed  beyond  the  limits  of 
national jurisdiction. Cuba believes that, on that issue, 
States must be governed by the principles established in 
the  Convention,  which  provides  that  marine  scientific 
research in the area must be carried out exclusively for 
peaceful  purposes  and  the  benefit  of  humankind  as  a 
whole.
Our  country  has  repeatedly  voiced  its  concern 
at  various  summits  and  meetings  about  the  dramatic 
consequences  of  climate  change  for  humankind. 
Ocean  systems  are  no  exception  to  that  reality.  The 
law  of  the  sea  should  become  the  tool  of  choice  for 
the  international  community  in  avoiding  irreparable 
damage  to  marine  ecosystems.  Irresponsible  human 
activity  in  the  natural  environment  and  the  unbridled 
exploitation of natural resources in various ecosystems 
have  led  to  many  natural  disasters.  The  continuous 
rise  in  sea  level,  for  example,  threatens  the  territorial 
integrity of many States, especially that of small island 
States, some of which are destined to disappear unless 
immediate measures are adopted.
The  international  community  is  called  upon  to 
take  immediate  action  on  those  issues.  Developed 
countries must meet their financial obligations, honour 
their assistance commitments, and in particular reduce 
activities and practices that have affected and continue 
to affect the delicate ecological balance of the world.
We  cannot  conclude  without  first  expressing 
thanks  for  the  efforts  of  the  coordinators  of  the  draft 
resolutions  on  this  subject.  They  have  done  excellent 
work  despite  the  technical  complexity  and  sensitivity 
of the subjects for Members of the Organization. Cuba 
reiterates  its  support  for  the  draft  resolutions  before 
us  and  reiterates  its  commitment  and  willingness  to 
work  in  outreach  on  matters  relating  to  the  law  of  the 
sea  and  on  the  unfettered  application  of  the  norms  of 
international law on the subject.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation associates itself with the statement made by 
the representative of the Republic of Korea on behalf of 
the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
A  few  minutes  are  never  enough  to  talk  about 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS),  but  as  the  eleventh  ratifying  State  party 
the Philippines wishes to say a few words.
10 
12-63751
First  of  all,  we  call  on  all  States  that  have  not 
yet  done  so  to  ratify  UNCLOS  and  contribute  to  its 
universality.  UNCLOS  has  withstood  the  test  of  time. 
For us, that constitution for the oceans anchors the rule 
of  law  as  it  governs  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of 
nations  —  large  and  small,  rich  and  poor,  coastal  and 
landlocked — in their use of the world’s oceans. Let us 
remember  that  UNCLOS  became  necessary  to  ensure 
global  and  regional  peace,  cooperation  and  stability 
through the just and sustainable use of marine natural 
resources.
If  respected  fully  by  all  States  parties,  UNCLOS 
prevents  the  use  or  the  threat  of  use  of  force  over 
our  shared  resource,  which  until  recently  had  led  to 
inequity, injustice and even bloodshed. The cooperation 
for common development that UNCLOS envisions will 
succeed only if the agreed maritime zones it carefully 
demarcates are honoured in good faith.
In the fifteenth century, European Powers launched 
the  Age  of  Discovery,  or  the  Age  of  Exploration,  by 
seeking  alternative  trading  routes  to  Asia  through  the 
seas.  That  allowed  the  global  mapping  of  the  world, 
and  thus  the  modern  era  was  born.  But  along  with 
expanding  trade,  the  great  exchange  of  culture  and 
scientific  knowledge  between  East  and  West  and  the 
founding  of  the  nation  State  also  came  the  creation  of 
colonial  empires  supported  by  the  slave  trade  with  its 
unfortunate legacy.
Through  it  all,  the  sea  was  the  conduit  for  both 
the good and the not-so-good. In 1609, the great Hugo 
Grotius  published  Mare  Liberum,  his  seminal  treatise 
on  the  free  sea.  Grotius  proposed  that  the  sea  was 
international territory and the common property of all 
nations, and not susceptible to occupation. All nations 
were  free  to  use  it,  and  no  nation  could  deny  others 
access  to  it.  And  yet  the  inequality  among  nations 
meant inequality in the use of the sea. Nations sought to 
extend their claims ostensibly to protect fish stocks and 
enforce  pollution  controls,  but  also  to  take  advantage 
of  mineral  resources  in  the  continental  shelf.  In  1945, 
United States President Harry Truman set off the race 
to the depths of the seas, citing customary international 
law to extend United States control over its continental 
shelf.
Through deft diplomacy, the three United Nations 
Conferences  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  were  convened  in 
1956,  1960  and  1973.  The  first  Conference  succeeded 
in adopting four separate conventions on the territorial 
A/67/PV.50
sea and contiguous zone, the continental shelf, the high 
seas,  and  fishing  and  conservation  of  living  resources 
of  the  high  seas.  However,  the  second  was  largely  a 
failure  due  to  Cold  War  politics.  By  1967,  66  nations 
had set a 12-mile territorial sea limit, while only 25 still 
used the old three-mile limit. A few claimed a 200-mile 
limit.
In  the  context  of  those  contending  claims,  we 
remember  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta.  His 
stirring  speech  on  1  November  1967,  given  in  this 
very  Hall,  led  to  the  third  and  final  United  Nations 
Conference on the Law of the Sea (see A/C.1/PV.1515). 
In  the  spirit  of  the  anniversary  of  that  date,  we  pause 
to  remember  him  and  the  men  and  women  from  the 
Philippines  and  from  all  States  parties  who  actively 
contributed  to  the  vision  of  peace  at  sea  and  of  a  just 
and  comprehensive  rule  for  the  world’s  oceans  and  its 
resources.  Ambassador  Pardo’s  vision  of  the  common 
heritage  of  humankind,  which  should  help  bankroll  a 
fund that would help close the gap between rich and poor 
nations, is now enshrined in article 136 of UNCLOS.
Using the consensus process, the third Conference 
made headway on setting territorial and maritime limits, 
freedom  of  navigation,  archipelagic  status,  exclusive 
economic  zones,  continental  shelf  jurisdiction,  deep 
seabed mining, the exploitation regime, the protection 
of the marine environment, scientific research and the 
settlement of disputes.
On 24 September, we held the High-level Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels.  We  adopted  a  Declaration  (resolution  67/1) 
that  recognizes  the  institutions,  working  methods  and 
relationships available to make the rule of law relevant 
to  peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  development. 
Those institutions include the treaty bodies of UNCLOS.
We  reiterate  our  full  support  and  confidence  in 
those  treaty  bodies:  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Law of the Sea, the International Seabed Authority and 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, 
together  with  their  leaders,  members  and  secretariats, 
who  are  bringing  life  to  the  vision  of  those  who  went 
before  us.  We  also  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea.
The  Philippines  views  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level through the prism of paragraph 1 of 
Article  1  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which  states 
that the purposes of the United Nations are:
12-63751
11
A/67/PV.50
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
This is the very rationale of the 1982 Manila Declaration 
on  the  Peaceful  Settlement  of  International  Disputes, 
the thirtieth anniversary of which the General Assembly 
is also commemorating this year. 
UNCLOS  has  never  been  more  important  to 
developing  countries  like  the  Philippines  than  today, 
when  overlapping  maritime  claims  in  our  part  of  the 
world threaten as never before peace and prosperity in 
our  part  of  the  world.  UNCLOS  provides  the  proper 
and  proven  mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  to  resolve  such  claims,  in  order  to  ensure 
global  and  regional  peace,  cooperation  and  stability 
in  the  just  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  natural 
resources. We believe that the rules-based approach in 
UNCLOS  is  the  way  forward  in  addressing  maritime 
disputes, including in our own region. We acknowledge 
Ambassador Tommy Koh of Singapore for his statement 
regarding the role of the International Tribunal for the 
Law of the Sea and the International Court of Justice in 
the settlement of disputes. 
Our position is clear — we seek calm, peace, free 
navigation  and  trade  in  our  region. We  renew  our  call 
on  those  involved  to  avail  themselves  of  the  dispute 
settlement mechanism provided for in UNCLOS, even 
as  we  ask  them  to  sustain  the  dialogue  and  continue 
exploring  opportunities  for  cooperation  to  fulfil  our 
shared aspirations. 
In  this  day  and  age,  the  sea  should  no  longer  be  a 
source of conf lict. If there is anything that the rule of 
law and UNCLOS teach us, it is that the weak, if their 
cause  is  just,  should  have  no  fear  of  the  mighty.  It  is 
that,  through  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  the  rule 
of law in international relations has a chance to prevail. 
It is that, through the rule of law, we can demonstrate 
that right is might.
Ultimately,  great  economic,  political  and  even 
military  power  should  be  used  with  care,  wisdom, 
compassion  and  generosity  for  those  who  have  less. 
The beginning of moral leadership, one that seeks and 
builds peace, is none other than responsibility. That is 
the  foundation  both  of  regional  harmony  and  stability 
and of international peace and security.
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): As we gather here today to 
celebrate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for 
signature of the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea (UNCLOS), the near universal membership 
of  the  Convention  is  in  and  of  itself  a  vehement 
testimony  to  the  relevance  of  UNCLOS  to  settling,  in 
a  spirit  of  mutual  understanding  and  cooperation,  all 
issues  relating  to  the  law  of  the  sea  and  its  important 
contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  peace,  justice  and 
progress for all peoples of the world.
The  Convention  is  considered  by  some  to  be  the 
culmination  of  thousands  of  years  of  international 
relations, conf lict and now nearly universal adherence 
to  an  enduring  order  for  ocean  space  that  is  the  most 
significant  achievement  for  international  law  since 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  The  principle  of  equity, 
as applied in the Convention, provides a vantage point 
from which to underscore its transformative character, 
for UNCLOS consolidated the vision that the problems 
of  ocean  space  are  closely  interrelated  and  need  to  be 
considered  as  a  whole.  It  aimed  at  a  legal  order  for 
the  seas  and  oceans  that  would  facilitate  international 
communication  and  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  the 
seas and oceans, the equitable and efficient utilization 
of  their  resources,  the  conservation  of  their  living 
resources and the study, protection and preservation of 
the marine environment.
The  principle  of  equity  is  widely  applied  in 
UNCLOS  in  resolving  maritime  issues.  The  terms 
“equity”  and  “equitable”  appear  about  32  times  in 
UNCLOS, especially in the areas of maritime boundary 
delimitation;  the  sharing  of  benefits  and  resources; 
conf lict  resolution;  and  the  rights  of  landlocked 
and  geographically  disadvantaged  States.  It  can  be 
argued  that  like  the  1967  Outer  Space  Treaty  before 
it, UNCLOS, in enshrining in its Part XI the principle 
of the common heritage of humankind as applicable to 
the  Area  and  its  resources,  consecrated  equity  as  the 
guiding principle for international cooperation beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction.
At the same time, the Convention also recognizes in 
Part XI the rights and legitimate interests of any coastal 
State  across  whose  jurisdiction  resource  deposits  in 
the Area lie, including the right to take such measures 
consistent  with  the  relevant  principles  of  Part  XII  as 
may  be  necessary  to  prevent,  mitigate  or  eliminate 
grave and imminent danger to its coastline.
12 
12-63751
We  must  also  celebrate  today  the  vision  of  those 
who made the Convention a monument to international 
cooperation in treaty-making. Arvid Pardo claimed that 
the concept of the common heritage of humankind, as 
enshrined in Part XI of the Convention, challenges the 
structural relationship between rich and poor countries 
and amounts to a revolution not merely in the law of the 
sea, but also in international relations.
One  can  also  argue  that  the  general  obligation 
of  States,  expressed  in  article  192  of  Part  XII  of  the 
Convention,  to  protect  and  preserve  the  maritime 
environment  is  a  ref lection  within  UNCLOS  of  the 
central principle of sustainable development — that of 
intergenerational equity. The fulfilment of that general 
obligation  is  a  condition  for  enabling  the  sustainable 
use  of  resources  not  only  by  present  generations  but 
also by future ones, and for averting the foreclosure of 
applications  for  resources  that  the  present  generation 
has not yet appreciated but could be valuable for future 
generations.
In  retrospect,  that  ref lects  what  happened  when 
the Convention was negotiated. At that time, the value 
of  marine  biological  diversity  had  not  yet  been  fully 
appraised.  Today,  we  know  that  the  applications  of 
those  resources,  particularly  in  the  pharmaceutical 
industry,  can  benefit  humankind  as  a  whole.  That  is 
why  we  are  convinced  of  the  urgent  need  to  develop 
an  implementing  agreement  under  the  Convention 
applicable  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use 
of  the  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction.
In  conclusion,  we  should  bear  in  mind  that 
UNCLOS  is  30  years  young  and  very  much  a  living 
document. Some recent developments attest to that and 
to  the  relevant  role  of  the  three  bodies  established  by 
the Convention within their respective mandates.
The 
issued  by 
first  advisory  opinion 
the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) 
introduced elements that would be of help to parties not 
only in interpreting the issue of the responsibility of the 
sponsoring State for activities in the Area, but also in 
interpreting the precautionary principle.
Of  particular  relevance  is  the  ongoing  work  of 
the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf  in  considering  the  large  number  of  submissions 
by  coastal  States.  The  Commission  must  continue  to 
enjoy adequate support to enable it to fulfil its mandate 
under  paragraph  8  of  article  76  of  the  Convention  in 
A/67/PV.50
an  efficient  and  timely  manner,  and  bearing  in  mind 
the  human  and  financial  resources  that  coastal  States, 
particularly developing ones, have to deploy in order to 
prepare and submit information to the Commission on 
the limits of their respective continental shelves beyond 
200 nautical miles.
is 
Also  noteworthy 
the  International  Seabed 
Authority’s  completion,  as  warden  of  the  common 
heritage  of  humankind,  of  three  mining  codes;  its 
approval of five new plans of work for exploring minerals 
in  the  deep  oceans,  bringing  the  number  of  active 
exploration contracts it has issued to 17, compared with 
only eight in 2010; and the environmental management 
plan for the Clarion-Clipperton Zone.
We  pay  homage  all  those  who  have  contributed 
through  their  leadership  to  the  efficient  and  effective 
functioning  of  the  three  bodies  established  under 
the  Convention,  represented  by  Judge  Shunji  Yanai, 
President  of  ITLOS;  Lawrence  Folajimi  Awosika, 
Chairman  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf; and Nii Allotey Odunton, Secretary-
General of the International Seabed Authority. We also 
greatly  appreciate  the  presence  of  Judge  Christopher 
Greenwood,  representing  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, at today’s celebration.
Finally,  we  wish  to  commend  the  initiative  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  holding  this  celebration  and  the 
unstinting  efforts  deployed  by  the  Division  of  Oceans 
and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of 
the  United  Nations  in  organizing  it.  We  also  welcome 
the many activities organized by States parties to mark 
this anniversary.
Mr.  Tladi  (South  Africa):  The  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  is  an  impressive, 
monumental achievement of lawmaking. It is therefore 
not surprising that it has been hailed as a constitution 
for  the  oceans  and  the  framework  within  which 
all  activities  in  the  oceans  are  to  be  governed.  Its 
momentous comprehensiveness is matched only by the 
tireless efforts of the negotiators during the third United 
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. Many States, 
and  indeed  many  individuals,  contributed  immensely 
to  its  success,  and  it  is  fitting  that  we  pay  tribute  to 
them by commemorating the thirtieth anniversary of its 
birth. 
Since December 1982, many States and individuals 
have  also  contributed  immensely  to  its  continuing 
growth. All of them — whether acting as representatives, 
12-63751
13
A/67/PV.50
members of the various institutions created to oversee 
different  aspects  of 
the  Convention,  academics 
contributing  to  its  understanding  and  development, 
members  of  civil  society  pushing  its  boundaries  in 
a  way  that  ensures  its  continued  effectiveness,  the 
Secretariat,  whose  contributions  are  felt  but  often 
unrecognized — should be paid tribute to today.
It was once said that the 
“dark  oceans  were  the  womb  of  life:  from  the 
protecting  oceans  life  emerged.  We  still  bear  in 
our  bodies  —  in  our  blood,  in  the  salty  bitterness 
of  our  tears  —  the  marks  of  this  remote  past. 
Retracing  the  past,  man,  the  present  dominator  of 
the  emerged  earth,  is  now  returning  to  the  ocean 
depths. His penetration of the deep could mark the 
beginning of the end for man, and indeed for life as 
we know it on this earth; it could also be a unique 
opportunity to lay solid foundations for a peaceful 
and increasingly prosperous future for all peoples” 
(A/C.1/PV.1515, para. 7).
In  the  powerful  1967  speech  from  which  that 
beautiful  and  poetic  passage  was  drawn,  Ambassador 
Arvid  Pardo  spoke  both  of  the  potential  benefits  and 
of the incalculable dangers that technological advances 
in  deep-sea  capabilities  held.  I  have  quoted  from  this 
beautiful, poetic passage not only because it is beautiful 
and  poetic;  I  have  quoted  from  this  passage  not  only 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  man  on  whom  the  title  of  “father 
of the Convention” is bestowed, although that is surely 
one of the reasons. We have quoted from it also because 
in  it  we  see  what  inspired  him  and  consequently  what 
the founding rationale for the Convention is — the twin 
desires  of  ensuring  both  the  survival  of  life  on  Earth 
and  a  better  life  for  all  who  live  in  it.  Those  desires 
translate  into  inter-  and  intra-generational  equity  and 
constitute the essence of sustainable development.
As we mark the thirtieth anniversary, it is important 
that  we  remember  that  this  is  what  is  at  the  heart  of 
the  Convention.  Indeed,  the  Convention,  in  living  up 
to  its  constitutional  character,  contains  an  impressive 
catalogue of provisions designed to give effect to those 
two  desires  while  also  creating  institutions  to  oversee 
its  objectives.  The  many  environmental  provisions  of 
the  Convention  contained  in  Part  XII  are  well  known 
and  need  not  be  restated.  To  those  we  can  add  the 
regime-specific  environmental  provisions  in  Parts 
V,  VII,  XI  and  XIII  of  the  Convention,  which  add  to 
the  richness  of  the  body  of  environmental  protection 
to  promote 
measures  designed 
inter-generational 
equity,  protect  life  on  Earth,  and  ensure  that  our 
penetration into the oceans does not mark the end of life 
as we know it. The intra-generational provisions of the 
Convention, designed to promote a better life for all of 
Earth’s inhabitants, are equally well known and include 
the  provisions  of  article  59  and,  most  importantly,  the 
common heritage of humankind regime extablished in 
Part XI of the Convention.
While  the  principle  of  the  common  heritage  of 
humankind  is  the  most  important  contribution  that 
the Convention has made to international law, perhaps 
its  most  enduring  quality  is  its  constitution-like 
character.  That  character  derives  not  purely  from  its 
comprehensiveness,  but  also  from  the  hierarchy  it 
creates — the quintessential quality of constitutionalism. 
Like any constitution, the Convention reserves for itself 
a place of primacy. However, it creates the possibilities 
for  a  detailed  normative  mosaic  established  by  States 
and organizations through agreement.
As  we  stand  back  and  take  stock  of  all  that  has 
been achieved in the past 30 years, we should also seek 
to  enrich  this  mosaic  by  ensuring  that  the  twin  vision 
of Ambassador Pardo continues to live on through the 
framework of the Convention. The process initiated by 
the  General  Assembly  in  resolution  66/231,  together 
with the commitment of our world leaders to reaching 
a decision on an implementing agreement by the end of 
the Assembly’s sixty-ninth session, provide an excellent 
opportunity to enrich our mosaic in this way.
To that end, I would like to restate what we said in 
2009. The common heritage of mankind principle is not 
solely  about  benefit-sharing;  it  is  just  as  much  about 
conservation  and  preservation.  The  principle  is  about 
solidarity not only in the preservation and conservation 
of a good we all share and therefore should protect, but 
also in ensuring that this good, which we all share, is for 
the benefit of us all. Our continued and steadfast call for 
an implementing agreement for the Convention on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  is  rooted  in  our 
desire to contribute to that mosaic of the Convention in 
faithful fulfilment of Ambassador Pardo’s vision.
Mr. Zegers Santa Cruz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): 
I speak on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS)  and  the  great  Conference  that  prepared  it, 
at which I had the honour to lead the Chilean delegation 
14 
12-63751
from the preparatory stage up to its signing in Montego 
Bay.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  is  a  monumental  diplomatic  and 
legal achievement. It regulates human activity in more 
than  two-thirds  of  the  planet,  stating  the  basic  rules 
governing  the  seas  and  oceans,  and  covering  their 
widespread  uses.  It  is  truly,  as  it  has  been  called,  the 
constitution of the oceans.
The Third United Nations Conference on the Law 
of the Sea was the largest and certainly one of the most 
important meetings of its kind in the twentieth century; 
it  was  a  notable  success  of  international  cooperation, 
the  United  Nations  and  the  history  of  codification. 
Practically  all  of  the  world’s  nations  participated 
in  the  preparation  of  the  Convention  and  are  now 
operating  under  its  legal  force.  Through  conventional 
or  customary  law  it  is  the  law  of  the  sea;  through  the 
Convention it can be said to have become universalized 
as the law of the sea.
Despite  its  breadth  and  content,  it  was  negotiated 
by consensus, as manifested by its general acceptance 
by  the  vast  majority  of  States  that  are  party  to  it  as 
well  as  by  those  few  that  still  are  not,  as  we  heard 
earlier in this Hall. That long, participatory negotiating 
process  and  its  outcome  constitute  a  valuable  model 
for  other  exercises  in  the  progressive  development  of 
international law.
The  Convention  enjoys  general  consensus,  and  its 
central rules have become part of international custom. 
It  is  respected  and  implemented  by  most  States,  and 
is  applied  by  international  courts.  It  has  given  rise 
to  a  genuine  legal  system.  Other  instruments  have 
been  forged  under  its  auspices,  including  the  1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  and  the  regional  fisheries 
management  arrangements;  the  development  of  law 
concerning  the  seabed  beyond  national  jurisdiction; 
agreements  or  understandings  on  port  use;  numerous 
instruments  concerning  pollution  and 
scientific 
research,  along  with  other  legal  texts  related  to  the 
major  subjects  of  such  research,  as  well  as  extensive 
case law, doctrine and international practice. 
As was clearly noted at the Meeting of the Parties, 
the  Convention  is  a  binding  legal  framework  for  all 
A/67/PV.50
ocean  activities  that  relate  to  the  oceans  and  seas.  It 
completely covers their use, including communication, 
economic  exploitation,  fishing,  scientific  research, 
pollution  and  general  matters  of  peace  and  security. 
It  has  appropriately  defined  and  described  maritime 
territory and the scope of national jurisdiction and the 
freedom of the seas. 
It 
is  worth  highlighting  some  of 
the  key 
achievements within its broad ambit. These include the 
establishment  of  an  unprecedented  mandatory  dispute 
settlement system that guarantees stability, compliance 
with  the  Convention’s  mandates,  as  well  as  its  fair 
implementation;  a  regime  and  an  Authority  charged 
with governing the seabed beyond national jurisdiction 
based  on  its  designation  as  the  common  heritage  of 
humankind,  a  topic  that  has  been  widely  discussed 
at  this  commemorative  meeting;  and  a  regime  for  the 
economic exploitation of the seas and oceans based on 
an  exclusive  economic  zone  of  200  miles  for  coastal 
States and the freedoms of the high seas. I would like 
to dwell for a moment on that fundamental institution, 
which is the core of the new law of the sea.
The  Convention  defined  the  reach  of  territorial 
sovereignty  as  up  to  12  miles  or  the  territorial  sea; 
an  exclusive  economic  zone  of  200  miles  over  which 
the  coastal  State  exercises  sovereign  rights  and 
jurisdiction without affecting international freedom of 
communication;  and  the  high  seas,  where  traditional 
freedoms  are  preserved.  In  the  exclusive  economic 
zone,  the  coastal  State  exercises  sovereign  rights 
over  resources  and  other  economic  uses,  and  holds 
jurisdiction over scientific research, pollution and other 
matters. Third States enjoy freedom of navigation and 
overf light.
The universal force of that institution has allowed 
for  peaceful  cooperation  and  greater  order  in  the 
oceans,  greater  care  of  the  marine  environment, 
and  improved  conservation  and  more  equitable  use 
of  fishing  resources.  Latin  America,  including  my 
country,  may  be  said  to  have  played  a  decisive  role  in 
the  conception,  negotiation  and  success  of  the  200-
mile  exclusive  economic  zone,  including  through  an 
important contribution of my country.
In  1947,  Chile  was  the  first  State  in  the  world  to 
declare a 200-mile maritime area under its jurisdiction, 
which it subsequently designated as an economic zone. 
The  1952  Declaration  on  the  Maritime  Zone  between 
Chile,  Peru  and  Ecuador  established  a  200-mile 
12-63751
15
A/67/PV.50
maritime zone inter se and universally. Other separate 
declarations of jurisdiction followed that South Pacific 
pact, which was joined by Colombia. Subsequently, in 
1970 and thereafter, during the regional meetings held 
in  Lima,  Montevideo  and  Santo  Domingo,  a  200-mile 
maritime zone was defined, with economic implications 
for almost the entire region.
However, it was thanks to the deep involvement of 
the  countries  of  the  South  Pacific  and  Latin  America 
that the new law was conceived, developed and finalized 
as part of the great Conference whose anniversary we 
celebrate today. 
Between  1970  and  1973,  during  what  we  could 
call  the  pre-Conference  era,  and  then  in  the  Seabed 
Committee and the Preparatory Committee, the concept 
of  a  200-mile  economic  zone  was  outlined,  developed 
and  supported.  There  was  growing  support  for  a  legal 
concept  that  would  provide  an  international  solution 
to  adequately  address  appropriate  fishing  and  other 
economic  uses,  while  ensuring  equitable  treatment  of 
all stakeholders, the protection of the environment and 
its resources, and freedom of navigation and overf light 
and their consequences. 
During  that  period,  an  informal  regional  group 
of  coastal  States  was  formed  to  work  to  develop  the 
new  concept.  Beyond  Latin  America,  the  concept  was 
discussed  in  the  Asian-African  Legal  Committee  and 
became  the  subject  of  numerous  African  proposals, 
legal  theses,  consultations,  comments  and  writings 
from  a  variety  of  sources.  The  notion  was  added  to 
the  list  of  subjects  and  issues  —  or  pre-conference 
agenda  —  for  the  Preparatory  Committee  of  the 
Conference. The resolution calling for a broad, unified 
and  comprehensive  conference  that  would  address 
all  the  problems  of  the  seas  and  oceans  gave  due 
importance to that legal concept and to the need for its 
subsequent development.
During  that  same  preparatory  period,  in  what 
would  come  to  be  a  decisive  moment,  the  Evensen 
Group, named for the Norwegian jurist who informally 
convened  a  small  group  of  experts  from  around  the 
world  to  represent  different  realities  and  stakeholders.  
The  group  narrowed  and  modified  positions  that  later 
informed  successive  informal  negotiating  texts  that, 
in  turn,  formed  the  basis  of  the  extensive  work  by 
consensus of the Conference.
The 
African 
of 
1973 — which, based on a text from Kenya, declared a 
presidents’ 
agreement 
200-mile economic zone as a regional definition — was 
a  decisive  element  in  the  international  negotiations. 
With that precedent, when the actual Conference started 
in 1974 there was already a majority that favoured some 
form of a maritime zone of 200 miles with a sovereign 
but  economic  content,  without  affecting  international 
communication.  That  was  then  ref lected  in  a  draft 
submitted by a dozen countries, including Chile, from 
all  regions  during  the  first  substantive  session  of  the 
Conference  in  1974.  The  draft  set  out  the  elements 
of  what  would  become  the  final  solution,  namely,  a 
territorial  sea  of  12  miles,  an  economic  zone  of  200 
miles  and,  beyond  that,  the  high  seas  with  all  their 
features.  It  included  the  basic  characterization  of  the 
exclusive economic zone.
In  the  subsequent  informal  texts  presented  by 
the  presidents  of  the  Commissions  starting  in  1975, 
which  formed  the  basis  of  the  future  Convention,  the 
200-mile  exclusive  economic  zone  was  developed 
and  fine-tuned  until  its  final  terms  were  established 
in  the  draft  Convention  that  was  adopted  and  signed 
in  1982.  Years  before  the  end  of  the  Conference,  and 
as  a  result  of  it,  the  exclusive  economic  zone  of  200 
miles  was  considered  to  be  part  of  the  law  of  the  sea 
and international custom — as the International Court 
of Justice itself acknowledged.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  is  alive  and  operational,  as  was  reaffirmed 
by  the  Meeting  of  the  Parties  and  now by  the  General 
Assembly. It legally governs the seas and the oceans and 
has  led  to  a  broad  and  working  system  of  law.  This  is 
a welcome commemoration of its thirtieth anniversary, 
which  must  be  extended  to  the  unforgettable  and  ever 
present third United Nations Conference on the Law of 
the Sea.
Tribute is due to the almost 150 States that participated 
in negotiating the Convention, as well as to the United 
Nations, within which it was negotiated. Tribute is also 
due to the respective individuals — representatives and 
members of the Secretariat alike — who led the complex 
and  ambitious  negotiations,  which  lasted  14  years,  to 
a  successful  conclusion.  In  these  few  minutes,  I  can 
only commend them by naming Conference Presidents 
Hamilton  Shirley  Amerasinghe  and  Tommy  Koh,  who 
we  heard  speak  this  morning,  and  Under-Secretary-
General Ambassador Bernardo Zuleta.
Chile  is  a  maritime  and  fishing  country  and 
a  constant  participant  in  the  Conference  and  the 
16 
12-63751
Convention, as well as an active party and beneficiary 
of  the  new  law,  especially  of  the  200-mile  exclusive 
economic  zone,  which  it  was  the  first  country  in  the 
world to declare. It therefore participates and applauds 
this just and important commemoration, as well as the 
significance  and  inf luence  of  the  Convention  on  the 
present and future reality of the seas and the oceans.
Mr.  Nishida  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  express  my  sincere  congratulations  on  the  thirtieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  Japan,  as  a  State  party  to 
UNCLOS,  takes  pleasure  in  today’s  commemorative 
meeting, held on the 10 December, the very day when 
UNCLOS was opened for signature 30 years ago.
Japan,  as  a  maritime  State  surrounded  by  the 
sea,  has  held  significant  stakes  in  the  various  uses  of 
the  ocean,  including  fishing,  transportation  and  the 
utilization  of  marine  resources.  Japan  firmly  believed 
that  in  order  to  achieve  the  full  utilization  of  the  rich 
potential of the sea over the long term, the establishment 
of  a  framework  for  the  orderly  shared  use  of  the  seas 
and oceans would serve the interests of Japan and those 
of the international community as a whole.
With regard to the third United Nations Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  based  on  that  conviction  and 
bearing in mind the emerging needs of the era as well 
as  the  particular  interests  and  needs  of  developing 
countries, Japan worked hard with a view to establishing 
a new, stable and fair legal order of the sea. Memorial 
essays by the Japanese fathers of UNCLOS contained in 
the commemorative booklet published by the Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  show  how 
actively Japan engaged at that Conference.
The  level  of  interest  in  UNCLOS  and  the  law  of 
the  sea  remains  very  high  in  Japan.  In  this  thirtieth 
commemorative  year,  a  number  of  conferences 
and  symposiums  have  been  held  by  private-sector 
organizations and academic societies.
In  the  30  years  since  the  opening  for  signature  of 
UNCLOS, and during the 18 years since its entry into 
force,  the  international  community  has  steadily  made 
efforts to establish a legal order for the seas and oceans 
under  the  Convention.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
express  my  heartfelt  praise  to  the  three  organs  that 
were  established  under  the  Convention,  namely,  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), 
the International Seabed Authority and the Commission 
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS).
A/67/PV.50
Japan has actively contributed to the work of those 
organs  since  their  establishment  —  for  example,  by 
providing resources for the judges of the Tribunal and 
members for the CLCS. Similarly, Japan recently made 
contributions  totalling  approximately  $350,000  to  the 
trust  fund  for  the  purpose  of  defraying  the  costs  of 
participation in meetings of the CLCS by members from 
developing  States.  We  hope  that  Japan’s  contributions 
will facilitate efficient work by the Commission, which 
is  required  to  deal  with  the  numerous  submissions 
made by States.
Japan  has  promoted  the  rule  of  law  in  the 
international society. At the High-level Meeting on the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels, 
held  at  Headquarters  on  24  September,  Mr.  Koichiro 
Gemba,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Japan,  firmly 
reiterated  the  importance  of  international  courts  and 
tribunals  as  a  means  to  settle  international  disputes 
peacefully in accordance with the law (see A/67/PV.5). 
In  order  to  facilitate  the  use  of  international  courts 
and  tribunals,  Minister  Gemba  called  upon  all  States 
that  had  not  yet  done  so  to  accept  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice and to 
accede to UNCLOS.
It goes without saying that, in order to enhance the 
rule of law in the oceans, it is of crucial importance that 
the peaceful dispute settlement mechanism of UNCLOS 
be  effectively  operated.  With  regard  to  ITLOS,  which 
was established under UNCLOS, we are pleased to see 
that,  with  the  issuance  of  an  advisory  opinion  by  its 
Seabed Dispute Chamber and the rendering a judgment 
in  a  dispute  related  to  the  delimitation  of  maritime 
zones, the Tribunal is steadily expanding its activities 
in  various  fields  of  law  of  the  sea.  Very  recently,  the 
twentieth case was brought before the Tribunal, which 
ref lects,  in  our  view,  the  ever-growing  trust  of  the 
international community in the Tribunal.
Today  we  celebrate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
UNCLOS,  to  which  there  are  a  total  of  164  parties, 
including  the  European  Union.  For  the  past  30  years, 
UNCLOS has continuously faced new challenges arising 
from  exigencies  of  the  era.  Having  passed  the  test  of 
time for 30 years, UNCLOS has attained, both in name 
and in substance, its status as the “constitution for the 
oceans”,  serving  as  the  very  basis  of  the  international 
legal order for the oceans.
Japan believes that, with a view to maintaining legal 
stability,  it  is  crucially  important  for  the  international 
12-63751
17
A/67/PV.50
community  to  continue  to  address  emerging  issues 
regarding  the  law  of  the  sea  within  the  framework 
of  UNCLOS.  I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement 
by  reiterating  Japan’s  determination  to  continue  to 
devote  its  utmost  efforts  to  continue  to  support  the 
establishment  and  maintenance  of  a  stable  and  fair 
international legal order of the sea.
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  Thailand 
in 
commemorating  this  important  anniversary  of  the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 30 years ago.
joins 
At  the  outset,  Thailand  associates  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Republic of Korea at the 49th plenary meeting on behalf 
of the Group of Asian and Pacific States.
My delegation welcomes in particular the presence 
of Ambassador Tommy Koh of Singapore, President of 
the  third  Conference.  Let  me  also  thank  the  Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  the 
Secretariat  for  its  initiative  in  convening  this  special 
commemorative meting.
UNCLOS  is  recognized  as  one  of  the  most 
sophisticated  and  comprehensive  Conventions.  In 
establishing the law of the sea framework, it successfully 
integrates  all  aspects  of  the  law  of  the  sea,  including 
maritime  zones,  navigation,  natural  resources,  the 
marine  environment  and  marine  scientific  research. 
The Convention is rightly praised for its inclusiveness 
and  comprehensiveness  in  all  marine-related  aspects 
and is aptly known as the “constitution for the oceans”. 
For all of us, the conclusion of UNCLOS was indeed a 
milestone for the law of the sea. The increasing number 
of  State  parties  ref lects  its  importance  and  relevancy 
30 years on.
Thailand  is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  countries  that 
actively  took  part  in  the  drafting  process  of  the  law 
of  the  sea  conventions.  His  Royal  Highness  Prince 
Narathip Prabhanbongse was President of the first two 
United  Nations  Conferences  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
held in 1958 and 1960, respectively. Thailand was also 
very active in contributing to the third United Nations 
Conference on the Law of the Sea, held between 1973 
and  1982,  which  led  to  the  conclusion  of  UNCLOS. 
Last year, we became the one hundred and sixty-second 
State member of UNCLOS. We are happy to note that 
that number now stands at 164.
On 
this 
important  commemorative  occasion, 
Thailand  wishes  to  note  in  particular  those  aspects 
of  UNCLOS  that  we  find  to  be  groundbreaking.  First 
of  all,  the  Convention  clearly  defines  the  rights  and 
duties  of  coastal  and  non-coastal  States  with  specific 
scopes  of  jurisdiction  by  clearly  dividing  maritime 
zones  into  five  categories:  internal  waters,  territorial 
sea,  exclusive  economic  zone,  continental  shelf  and 
high seas. At the same time, it integrates well-balanced 
provisions  concerning  the  rights  of  developed  States, 
developing States, geographically disadvantaged States 
and landlocked States. It also provides an overarching 
framework  for  the  conservation  and  protection  of  the 
marine environment and natural resources. In addition, 
it  enhances  cooperation  among  States,  regardless  of 
whether they are potentially capable of exploiting natural 
resources  or  not,  by  establishing  the  International 
Seabed Authority to oversee the management of those 
resources.  Finally,  UNCLOS  should  be  recognized  as 
an exceptional law of the sea convention for stipulating 
several  optional  and  compulsory  procedures  in  its 
dispute settlement regime.
Thailand  wishes  to  continue  to  be  an  integral 
part  of  the  development  of  UNCLOS,  in  step  with 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf and 
the International Seabed Authority. In that connection, 
let  me  express  Thailand’s  sincere  appreciation  for  the 
high quality of work of the International Tribunal, the 
Commission and the International Seabed Authority, as 
well as their invaluable contributions to the development 
of the law of the sea.
Finally,  on  this  important  thirtieth  anniversary, 
we  would  also  like  to  encourage  States  that  have  yet 
to  ratify  UNCLOS  to  consider  becoming  parties  to 
the  Convention.  We  hope  and  expect  that  UNCLOS 
will become the first convention ratified by the largest 
possible number States. We believe that is well within 
the realm of possibility, as the underlying principle of 
UNCLOS is that the seas and oceans should be reserved 
for peaceful and sustainable use. We therefore hope to 
see the seas and oceans connect and bind all members 
of the international community in good faith, cordiality, 
trust and cooperation.
Mrs. Morgan (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): It is an 
honour  to  participate  in  this  meeting  commemorating 
the thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS).
18 
12-63751
The  Convention  is  one  of  the  most  important 
international  legal  instruments  of  the  Organization 
and serves as the basis upon which all activities on the 
oceans  and  seas  must  be  developed  FOR  the  good  of 
humankind.
As  one  of  the  first  signatories  and  the  third 
country to ratify the Convention, Mexico welcomes the 
universal  character  of  the  Convention,  which  includes 
countries  in  both  hemispheres,  island  States,  coastal 
States and landlocked countries. At the same time, we 
reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  principles  and  values 
promoted  by  the  Convention  and  reaffirm  the  validity 
of  the  regime  of  the  oceans,  which  has  contributed  to 
the rule of law and to the creation of a space for peace, 
development and cooperation. 
Advances  made  in  dispute  settlement  and  the 
peace and security of the oceans under the framework 
of  the  Convention  are  universally  recognized.  At 
this  commemorateive  meeting,  Mexico  would  like  to 
highligh the importance of the institutional framework 
established  by  the  Convention  and  the  work  of  other 
bodies  that  have  contributed  to  its  objectives.  Those 
include 
the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf, 
which  have  played  a  crucial  role  in  guaranteeing  the 
unity and coherence of the oceans regime.
International  Seabed  Authority, 
the 
For  Mexico,  it  is  highly  gratifying  to  witness  the 
growing  judicial  and  advisory  activity  of  the  Tribunal 
as  a  dispute-settlement  body  under  the  Convention. 
Furthermore, 
functioning 
dynamically  and  effectively,  given  the  interest  in 
establishing  the  limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond 
200 nautical miles.
the  Commission 
is 
those 
Along  with 
institutions,  we  must  also 
recognize  the  roles  of  others  that  have  been  strategic 
factors  in  the  development  of  the  legal  regime  on  the 
oceans,  such  as  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
in  terms  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes;  the 
International  Maritime  Organization,  in  the  area  of 
maritime  security  and  the  protection  of  the  marine 
environment;  the  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic 
Commission,  in  the  area  of  marine  scientific  research 
and  the  transfer  of  marine  technology;  and  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  fisheries  organizations,  in  terms  of 
the  conservation  and  development  of  living  marine 
resources.
A/67/PV.50
Likewise,  the  success  of  this  legal  instrument 
is  ref lected  in  Part  XI  of  the  Convention,  whose 
implementation  through  the  1994  Agreement  wisely 
integrates  the  current  world  situation  with  a  vision  of 
the  future  to  ensure  that  the  concept  of  the  common 
heritage  of  humankind  will  become  a  reality  today. 
In that context, we commend the determination of the 
International  Seabed  Authority  to  fulfil  the  goals  of 
those instruments.
The  opening  for  signature  of  the  “constitution  on 
the  oceans”  at  the  time  represented  the  height  of  the 
spirit of cooperation needed to achieve unprecedented 
legal progress. Participating countries were privileged 
witnesses as obstacles to close and effective cooperation 
among nations were eliminated, thereby providing one 
of the most successful examples of global governance.
However,  the  oceans  regime  continues  to  pose 
significant challenges in areas including the protection 
of  the  marine  environmen,  access  to  living  resources, 
maritime 
capacity-building, 
sustainable 
coordination 
and 
development, 
it  pertains 
to  marine 
biodiversity beyond national jurisdictions.
security,  promoting 
cooperation, 
and 
including  as 
Mexico  is  convinced  that  the  Convention  remains 
the  fundamental  framework  in  efforts  to  confront 
those  challenges,  with  its  unique,  meaningful  historic 
role  in  ensuring  that  future  generations  will  benefit 
from the oceans as a common heritage of humankind, 
as  envisaged  by  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo,  and  as  an 
essential  contribution  in  the  maintenance  of  peace, 
justice and progress for all of the peoples of the world. 
Mr.  Heidar 
(Iceland):  The  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  is,  without  doubt, 
one  of  the  greatest  achievements  in  the  history  of  the 
Organization.  The  Convention,  which  is  the  first  and 
only  comprehensive  treaty  in  this  field,  provides  the 
legal  framework  for  all  uses  of  the  oceans,  as  well  as 
their  superjacent  air  space  and  subjacent  seabed  and 
subsoil. 
Probably  no  other 
treaty  adopted  after 
the 
establishment of the United Nations has contributed so 
much to peace, security and the rule of law in the world. 
It is difficult to imagine what the situation would be like 
today on the oceans and seas without the Convention.
Today  we  pay  tribute  to  the  framers  of  the 
Convention  from  all  States  that  participated  in  the 
third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. 
12-63751
19
A/67/PV.50
Under  the  leadership  of  the  late  Hans  G.  Andersen, 
Iceland played an important role in the evolution of the 
law  of  the  sea  in  the  second  half  of  the  past  century. 
That evolution took place both on the oceans and in the 
conferences, in particular at the third Conference. Ever 
since  that  time,  Iceland  has  been  a  strong  proponent 
of  the  Law  of  the  Sea  Convention  and  was  the  first 
Western country to ratify it, in 1985.
The Commission has already made 18 recommendations 
to  coastal  States.  We  welcome  the  decision  of  the 
Commission  taken  at  its  thirtieth  session,  in  August, 
regarding  the  workload  of  the  Commission,  including 
extending the duration of its sessions here in New York 
next year to 21 weeks in total, a well as taking measures 
to ensure that six subcommissions can actively consider 
submissions at any given time.
As  we  commemorate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  Convention,  we  can  affirm  that 
the  Convention  has  stood  the  test  of  time.  We  must, 
however,  never  take  the  Convention  for  granted  and 
stay  conscious  of  the  need  to  preserve  its  integrity 
and implement its provisions to the fullest. Issues that 
were  settled  at  the  third  Conference  should  not  be 
reopened. It must be borne in mind that the conclusions 
of  the  Conference  were  regarded  as  a  package;  while 
individual States prevailed in some areas, in others they 
had to give in.
We  welcome 
the  recent  ratifications  of 
the 
Convention  by  Ecuador  and  Swaziland,  bringing 
the  total  number  of  States  parties  to  164,  and  call 
on  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify 
the  Convention  in  order  to  fully  achieve  the  goal  of 
universal  participation.  In  that  regard,  I  was  happy  to 
hear  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
United States this morning.
On this joyous occasion, it is a source of particular 
satisfaction that the three institutions established under 
the  Convention  are  all  functioning  well  and  are  more 
active in their work than ever before. The International 
Seabed  Authority  has  concluded  a  growing  number 
of  contracts  for  the  exploration  for  polymetallic 
nodules  and  sulphides,  is  attending  to  the  drafting  of 
a mining code and is elaborating rules, regulations and 
procedures  to  ensure  the  effective  protection  of  the 
marine environment in the Area.
There  is  also  substantial  growth  in  the  judicial 
activities  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  not  only  in  terms  of  the  number  of  cases  but 
also  as  regards  the  complexity  and  variety  of  matters 
before the Tribunal.
The  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf has received 61 submissions from coastal States, 
including  Iceland,  regarding  the  establishment  of  the 
outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical 
miles,  as  well  as  45  preliminary  information  notes. 
Further  submissions  are  expected  in  the  near  future. 
Although the Commission is not a decision-making 
body,  its  recommendations  carry  particular  weight,  as 
they  form  the  basis  for  the  establishment  of  final  and 
binding outer limits of the continental shelf by a coastal 
State. 
It  should  be  highlighted  that,  according  to  article 
76,  paragraph  8,  of  the  Convention,  the  Commission 
shall  make  recommendations  to  coastal  States  on 
“matters related to the establishment of the outer limits 
of  their  continental  shelf ”.  It  is  important  to  bear  in 
mind  that  that  includes  not  only  recommendations 
on  the  actual  outer  limits,  but  also  the  precursory 
test  of  appurtenance,  namely,  examining  whether  the 
continental shelf reaches beyond 200 nautical miles or 
not.  That  important  function  is  the  prerogative  of  the 
Commission.
A  crucial  part  of  promoting  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
Convention  and  preserving  its  integrity  is  through 
education and capacity-building. 
I want to take this opportunity to draw attention to 
the Rhodes Academy of Oceans Law and Policy, which 
annually offers a renowned three-week summer course 
in  Rhodes,  Greece.  The  basic  objective  of  the  Rhodes 
Academy  is  to  promote  the  rule  of  law  in  the  world’s 
oceans through education on the provisions of the Law 
of  the  Sea  Convention  and  related  instruments.  The 
Rhodes Academy is a cooperative undertaking by five 
institutions  —  the  Centre  for  Oceans  Law  and  Policy, 
Charlottesville, Virginia — and I am happy to recognize 
its Director, Mr. Jonathan Moore, who is here with us 
today;  the  Aegean  Institute  of  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and 
Maritime Law in Rhodes, the Law of the Sea Institute 
of  Iceland  in  Reykjavik,  the  Max  Planck  Institute  for 
Comparative  Public  Law  and  International  Law  in 
Heidelberg  and  the  Netherlands  Institute  for  the  Law 
of the Sea in Utrecht. The Centre for International Law 
in Singapore and the Korea Maritime Institute in Seoul 
are  associate  sponsors  of  the  Rhodes  Academy.  The 
Rhodes  Academy  has,  in  the  past  18  years,  graduated 
almost 700 students from more than 130 countries. It is 
20 
12-63751
perhaps the clearest sign of the success of the Academy 
to  see  how  many  Rhodes  graduates  represent  their 
countries  regularly  at  meetings  on  ocean  affairs  and 
the law of the sea here at the United Nations, including 
today.
Turning  now 
to 
the  draft  resolutions 
to  be 
considered  at  this  session  on  oceans  and  the  law 
of  the  sea  (A/67/L.21)  and  on  sustainable  fisheries 
(A/67/L.22),  I  want  to  thank  my  colleagues  for  the 
excellent  cooperation  and  good  spirit  during  the 
negotiations  of  both  draft  resolutions.  I  note  with 
particular  satisfaction  the  convergence  of  views  that 
characterized  this  year’s  negotiations.  I  would  like  to 
express my thanks to the two coordinators, Ambassador 
Eden  Charles  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Ms.  Alice 
Revell  of  New  Zealand,  each  of  whom  conducted  the 
informal  consultations  on  the  draft  resolutions  for  the 
first time. They each did so in his or her own way, but 
both successfully. Furthermore, I would like to express 
my  appreciation  for  the  high  standard  of  assistance 
provided  to  Member  States  by  the  Division  for  Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea (DOALOS) through the 
preparation of reports and other activities. The Director 
of the Division, Mr. Sergey Tarasenko, who will retire 
early next year, deserves special tribute.
Being  so  overwhelmingly  dependent  upon  the 
oceans, Iceland attaches great importance to the long-
term conservation, management and sustainable use of 
living marine resources and to the obligation of States to 
cooperate to that end in accordance with international 
law, in particular the Law of the Sea Convention and the 
United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement.  We  welcome 
the reaffirmation of those goals in the draft resolution 
on sustainable fisheries.
The  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  is 
of  paramount  importance,  as  it  provides  the  legal 
framework  for  the  conservation  and  management  of 
straddling and highly migratory fish stocks by regional 
fisheries management organizations. The effectiveness 
of  the  Agreement  depends  upon  its  wide  ratification 
and  implementation,  in  particular  by  fishing  States. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  recent  ratifications  of  the 
Agreement  by  Morocco  and  Bangladesh,  which  bring 
the total number of States parties to 80, and call on those 
States that have not yet done so to ratify the Agreement 
in order to achieve the goal of universal participation.
I would like to express my country’s appreciation for 
the work done by the Food and Agriculture Organization 
A/67/PV.50
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  its  Committee  on 
Fisheries.  Iceland  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and 
Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, 
which the first global treaty focused specifically on the 
problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
In  the  negotiations  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  a  considerable  amount 
of  time  was  devoted  to  discussing  UN-Oceans,  the 
inter-agency  coordination  mechanism  on  ocean  and 
coastal  issues  within  the  United  Nations  system,  and 
the Oceans Compact — Healthy Oceans for Prosperity, 
the initiative of the Secretary-General. Member States 
considered the draft terms of reference for UN-Oceans 
and  made  preliminary  comments  focused  on  the  need 
to  strengthen  the  central  role  of  DOALOS  and  to 
enhance transparency and reporting of the activities of 
UN-Oceans to Member States. As ref lected in the draft 
resolution,  UN-Oceans  is  requested  to  draft  revised 
draft  terms  of  reference  for  its  work  for  consideration 
and  approval  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  next 
session. As far as the Oceans Compact is concerned, the 
Assembly requests the Secretary-General to undertake 
open and regular consultations with Member States on 
all aspects of that initiative.
Iceland has taken an active part in the meetings of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to 
study issues relating to the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of 
national jurisdiction. The draft resolution provides for 
the  convening  of  two  back-to-back  workshops  in  May 
next  year,  one  on  marine  genetic  resources  and  the 
other on conservation and management tools, including 
Area-based  management  and  environmental  impact 
assessments.  The  workshops  serve  to  improve  the 
understanding  of  those  complex  issues  and  to  clarify 
key  questions  as  an  input  to  the  work  of  the  Working 
Group, which will hold its next meeting in August next 
year.
Iceland  welcomes  the  Outcome  Document  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
entitled  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288, 
annex), in which the international community stressed 
the  importance  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  the  oceans  and  seas  and  of  their  resources 
for  sustainable  development.  States  recognized  the 
significant  contribution  of  fisheries  to  the  three 
dimensions of sustainable development and stressed the 
crucial role of healthy marine ecosystems, sustainable 
12-63751
21
A/67/PV.50
fisheries and sustainable aquaculture for food security 
and  nutrition  and  in  providing  for  the  livelihoods  of 
millions of people. The outcome relevant to oceans and 
seas is properly ref lected in the two draft resolutions.
In “The future we want”, States noted with concern 
that  the  health  of  oceans  and  marine  biodiversity  was 
negatively  affected  by  marine  pollution,  including 
marine  debris,  from  a  number  of  marine  and  land-
based  sources.  They  also  committed  to  taking  action 
to  reduce  the  incidence  and  impacts  of  such  pollution 
on marine ecosystems, including through the effective 
implementation  of  the  relevant  conventions  adopted 
the  International  Maritime 
in 
Organization  and 
the  relevant 
initiatives such as the Global Programme of Action for 
the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-
based Activities.
the  framework  of 
the  follow-up  of 
In  Rio,  States  also  agreed  to  call  for  support  for 
initiatives  that  address  ocean  acidification  and  the 
impacts  of  climate  change  on  marine  and  coastal 
ecosystems and resources and, in that regard, reiterated 
the  need  to  work  collectively  to  prevent  further  ocean 
acidification and to support marine scientific research, 
monitoring and observation of ocean acidification and 
particularly  vulnerable  ecosystems.  In  that  context, 
Iceland welcomes the choice of topic for the fourteenth 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea,  to  be  held  in  June  next  year,  which  will  focus  its 
discussions on the impacts of ocean acidification on the 
marine environment.
Finally, the famous British writer Arthur C. Clarke 
once  commented:  “How  inappropriate  to  call  this 
planet  Earth,  when  it  is  quite  clearly  Ocean.”  Oceans 
are constantly growing in importance in the work of the 
United Nations, along with an increased awareness that 
oceans,  seas  and  coastal  areas  form  an  integrated  and 
essential  component  of  the  Earth’s  ecosystem  and  are 
critical to sustaining it.
There  are  many  challenges  ahead  in  the  field  of 
ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea;  I  have  touched 
upon just a few of them here. It is my sincere hope that 
we  will  be  able  to  deal  with  those  issues  in  the  same 
spirit  of  cooperation  and  consensus  that  characterized 
the  negotiations  of  the  draft  resolutions  this  year. 
We  would  then  be  following  in  the  footsteps  of  our 
forefathers who 30 years ago adopted the “constitution 
of  the  oceans”,  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea.
Mr. Ceriani (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Today, 
as we celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for  signature  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  we  wish  to  confer  well-deserved 
recognition to that very important international treaty, 
given  its  impact,  importance  and  significance  in  the 
international  sphere,  and  particularly  in  encouraging 
the  progressive  development  of  international  law 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  13, 
subparagraph 1 (a) of the Charter of the United Nations. 
From  the  juridical  point  of  view,  we  can  say  that 
the Convention is a true “constitution for the sea”, with 
the  goal  of  regulating  the  largest  physical  area  on  the 
planet,  and  we  emphasize  the  universal  and  unique 
character  that  has  shaped  it  into  a  legal  framework 
within  which  every  activity  in  and  on  the  oceans  and 
the  seas  must  be  carried  out.  To  accomplish  that  task, 
the  Convention  distinguishes  between  different  areas, 
according  to  the  volume  and  surface  of  water  in  their 
makeup, as well as in the seabed and subsoil, giving each 
a specific and unique legal system, established through 
three bodies: two of a technical nature dealing with the 
seabed and ocean f loor, the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the  International  Seabed 
Authority,  and  one  jurisdictional,  the  International 
Tribunal of the Law of the Sea.
We should note that the Convention also established 
innovative legal concepts, such as the consideration of 
the seabed and the ocean f loor as the common heritage 
of  humankind.  The  legal  framework  provided  by  the 
Convention,  to  be  interpreted  alongside  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  is  a  continually  evolving 
normative  system  ref lected  in  the  actions  of  the 
entities  it  encompasses:  the  International  Tribunal  of 
the Law of the Sea, which hands down judgments and 
advisory opinions; the International Seabed Authority, 
which  regulates  and  authorizes;  and  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  which  makes 
recommendations.
Through 
the 
those  actions, 
regulations  and 
procedures  designed  to  improve  the  law  of  the  sea 
are  being  built  and  strengthened.  Today  we  can  say 
with certainty that in the course of these 30 years, the 
Convention  has  proved  adequate  to  the  pursuit  of  its 
goal, which itself is the fundamental goal of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  consolidation  of  peace 
among nations. For that reason, we should congratulate 
those  who  instigated  and  achieved  the  adoption  of  the 
Convention in the period leading up to its opening for 
22 
12-63751
A/67/PV.50
signature on 10 December 1982. Among that group of 
men and women from all over the world, Uruguay would 
like to recall two of its citizens who played a prominent 
part  in  the  long  and  arduous  process  demanded  by 
the  adoption  of  the  Convention  —  Mr.  Julio  Cesar 
Lupinacci  and  Mr.  Felipe  Paolillo  —  and,  along  with 
them, all the participants in this major effort. 
During  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
which  we  held  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule 
of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels,  may 
today’s commemorative event serve to remind us of the 
irreplaceable  value  of  our  international  legislature  as 
a  key  actor  in  the  process  of  establishing  legal  norms 
and  peacefully  settling  disputes  among  the  nations  of 
the world.
Mr.  Caramitsos  Tziras  (Greece):  Today  we 
commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature, in 1982, of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  which  has  been 
described by the President of the third United Nations 
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  as  a  monumental 
achievement  of  the  international  community,  second 
only  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  a 
“constitution  for  the  oceans”  that  would  stand  the test 
of  time.  Truer  words  were  never  spoken.  The  drafters 
of  the  Convention,  to  whom  we  pay  tribute  today,  not 
only  succeeded  in  adopting  a  comprehensive  treaty 
dealing  with  almost  every  aspect  of  the  oceans,  they 
also created a treaty capable of adapting to new realities 
and challenges, whether involving new uses of the seas 
or traditional ones that have acquired new importance 
or  are  the  result  of  new  conditions,  new  technological 
developments and even new needs.
By establishing the legal framework within which 
all  activities  in  the  oceans  and  seas  must  be  carried 
out,  the  Convention  promotes  the  stability  of  the  law 
as  well  as  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. Among other things, it has replaced a plethora 
of conf licting claims by coastal States with universally 
agreed  limits  on  the  territorial  sea,  the  contiguous 
zone, the exclusive economic zone and the continental 
shelf;  it  has  unequivocally  accepted  that  islands  enjoy 
the same status, and therefore the same maritime rights, 
as  other  lands;  it  has  encouraged  the  development  of 
important  new  rules  for  protecting  and  preserving  the 
marine  environment  from  pollution;  and  strengthened 
the  international  community’s  interest  in  freedom  of 
navigation; the peaceful settlement of disputes and the 
prevention of the use of force.
The  universal  character  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  is  evidenced  not  only  in  its  universal 
language  and  purpose  and  in  its  commitment  to  settle 
all  law-of-the-sea  issues  on  the  basis  that  they  are 
interrelated  and  should  be  considered  as  a  whole, 
but  also  and  primarily  in  its  unprecedented,  almost 
universal,  participation.  To  date,  164  States  parties, 
including  the  European  Union,  are  bound  by  its 
provisions. In addition, international jurisprudence has 
long accepted that most of its provisions either embody 
or ref lect customary international law.
The view has occasionally been expressed that the 
Convention is not capable of dealing with new challenges 
such  as  piracy,  illicit  trafficking  in  narcotic  drugs  or 
human beings, the protection of marine biodiversity in 
areas beyond national jurisdiction or genetic resources. 
We do not share that view, nor do we agree with those 
who  say  that  there  are  gaps  in  the  Convention.  There 
may  be  inadequacies  and  shortcomings  or  an  absence 
of  specific  regulation,  which  is  inevitable  when  we 
are dealing with new uses that did not exist at the time 
that the Convention was adopted; but there are no legal 
gaps. The Convention on the Law of the Sea deals with 
each  jurisdictional  zone  separately,  and  in  addition 
to  its  specific  provisions,  it  has  residual  regimes.  For 
example,  in  the  area  of  internal  waters,  the  territorial 
sea and archipelagic waters, the residual regime is that 
of  territorial  sovereignty;  in  the  area  of  the  high  seas, 
the  freedom  of  the  seas  and  the  exclusive  economic 
zone,  the  residual  rule  is  that  of  article  59.  In  other 
words,  activities  that  are  not  specifically  regulated  by 
the  Convention  are  not  carried  out  in  a  legal  vacuum; 
on the contrary, they are governed by general principles 
or residual rules.
It  would  be  unrealistic  to  expect  a  framework 
convention  such  as  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  to  incorporate  all  the  detailed  provisions  that 
may  be  required  for  regulating  a  specific  activity.  It 
should  be  recalled,  however,  that  with  respect  to  the 
protection  of  the  marine  environment,  the  Convention 
incorporates  by  reference  the  international  rules  and 
standards  established  through  whatever  may  be  the 
competent  international  organization  or  diplomatic 
conference.
In  some  cases,  general  principles  may  be 
inadequate  to  deal  with  new  realities,  therefore  new 
rules  must  be  developed.  Indeed,  the  adoption  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  has  not  stopped, 
and  could  not  stop,  the  development  of  international 
12-63751
23
A/67/PV.50
law;  on  the  contrary,  the  Convention  addresses  its 
relationship  with  other  international  agreements,  both 
existing and potentially in the future. Therefore, if new 
rules have to be developed, they may take the form of 
an  implementing  Agreement,  such  as  that  relating  to 
the  implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention,  the 
1995 United Nations Straddling Fish Stocks Agreement 
or  the  proposed  adoption,  currently  being  considered, 
of  a  new  UNCLOS  implementing  agreement  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Greece  has  always  been  a  keen  supporter  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  constitutes 
an important pillar of its foreign policy and a reference 
point in its bilateral relations on marine issues. Along 
with  our  European  Union  partners,  we  firmly  believe 
that  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea is a factor for stability, peace and progress and that 
it  has  special  importance  in  a  difficult  international 
context.  It  is  therefore  important  to  preserve  the 
Convention’s  integrity  and  its  pre-eminent  role  as  the 
legal framework for all ocean issues and ocean-related 
activities by calling upon all States that have not done 
so  to  become  parties  to  the  Convention  in  order  to 
achieve the goal of universal participation.
Turning now to the two draft resolutions on oceans 
and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/67/L.21)  and  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/67/L.22)  that  will  be  considered  at  this 
session,  we  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  coordinators  for  their  tireless  efforts  during  the 
negotiations to reach consensus, and to all delegations 
for their cooperative spirit. We also wish to express our 
gratitude to the Secretariat Division for Ocean Affairs 
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the  work  done  during  the 
year, including the preparation of the annual report on 
oceans and the law of the sea (A/67/79).
This year’s omnibus draft resolution has particular 
significance  in  that  it  marks  the  thirtieth  anniversary 
of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  Convention.  The 
renewed  commitment  of  all  States  to  respecting  the 
public order of the oceans and the rule of law is therefore 
more appropriate and relevant than ever.
Ms. Burgstaller (Sweden): On 10 December 1982, 
Sweden  was  among  the  158  States  to  sign  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). 
Sweden ratified the Convention on 25 June 1996. In its 
bill to Parliament, the Government of Sweden described 
UNCLOS  as  a  nearly  complete  set  of  rules  for  the 
peaceful  use  of  the  sea.  The  Government  of  Sweden 
underlined that UNCLOS established a delicate balance 
between  the  rights  and  obligations  of  States —  on  the 
one hand, the interest of the coastal State in controlling 
activities in areas off its coast and, on the other hand, 
the right of all States to enjoy and to use the high seas 
without unnecessary limitations.
Since  the  adoption  of  UNCLOS,  Sweden  has 
been  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Convention  and  the 
bodies  established  by  it,  namely,  the  Commission  on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  the  International 
Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the 
Law of the Sea.
As  one  of  the  most  extensive  and  comprehensive 
instruments  adopted  by  the  United  Nations  to  date, 
UNCLOS  covers  a  wide  range  of  issues  related  to  the 
peaceful  use  of  the  sea.  It  has  proved  to  be  a  reliable 
tool as the legal framework applicable for areas of great 
importance,  such  as  the  Arctic  Ocean  and  the  Pacific 
region. 
With  few  exceptions,  the  Convention  ref lects 
existing  customary  law.  However,  it  is  important  not 
to  underestimate  the  value  and  power  of  a  binding 
international  convention.  The 
risk  of  creeping 
jurisdiction is more easily avoided if States are bound by 
a convention that clearly defines rights and obligations. 
Also, it is beneficial to international peace and security 
when a large number of States of the world are bound by 
identical international rules. Sweden therefore actively 
encourages States to accede to UNCLOS and welcomes 
all States that have done so. More than once, UNCLOS 
has proved to be a powerful instrument in avoiding and 
settling  disputes.  Sweden  would  like  to  underline  the 
importance  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
maritime  disputes  in  accordance  with  the  principles 
enshrined in UNCLOS.
The  protection  of  the  marine  environment  is  a 
matter  that  is  close  to  Sweden’s  heart.  In  that  respect, 
UNCLOS is a powerful and comprehensive instrument 
that  creates  a  binding  treaty  obligation  to  protect  and 
preserve  the  marine  environment  and  to  cooperate  in 
that regard.
Let  me  take  a  moment  to  look  towards  the  future 
and  the  challenges  that  may  lie  ahead  in  the  years  to 
come.  With  the  scientific  and  technical  developments 
that  are  under  way,  we  will  be  able  to  access  and  to 
exploit  the  resources  of  the  oceans  to  a  much  larger 
extent  than  the  negotiators  of  the  Convention  could 
24 
12-63751
A/67/PV.50
have envisaged. The technical possibility of exploiting 
the mineral resources in the Area must be accompanied 
by careful environmental and biological considerations. 
managed to set aside their differences. They assembled 
and created law and order with regard to the use of the 
oceans, their resources and the marine environment.
Also, developments in the modern fishing industry 
have made it possible to fish further from the coast and 
to facilitate larger catches. Fish are an important source 
of  income  for  many  States,  and  the  sustainability  of 
fish  stocks  worldwide  represents  a  key  source  of  food 
in many parts of the world. Sweden therefore attaches 
great importance in the ongoing process relating to the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction and urges all States 
to  contribute  constructively  to  that  joint  undertaking, 
which is our common responsibility.
Let  me  conclude  by  wishing  UNCLOS  a  happy 
thirtieth anniversary. 
Mr.  Khan  (Indonesia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening  today’s  meeting  on  the  commemoration  of 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature 
of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea. 
Before  I  proceed,  my  delegation  wishes  to  fully 
associate  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier 
today by the representative of the Republic of Korea on 
behalf of the Asia-Pacific Group.
The  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of  the  Sea  is  a  landmark  document  that  provides  a 
universal  legal  framework  for  the  world’s  oceans  and 
seas,  including  the  sustainable  development  of  its 
resources. It is indeed the “constitution of the oceans”. 
My  delegation  is  therefore  pleased  to  see  that  the 
number of States party to the Convention is increasing 
significantly.
Before  the  adoption  of  the  Convention,  the  world 
faced many problems and conf licts relating to the use of 
the seas and oceans, either with regard to the maritime 
space  or  their  resources.  There  were  difficulties 
when  many  States  unilaterally  claimed  extensive 
maritime  zones  and  countries  declared  themselves  to 
be  archipelagic  States  without  considering  their  land-
to-water ratio. Such claims were generally opposed by 
other  countries  that  continued  to  rely  on  the  principle 
of  the  freedom  of  the  sea,  either  with  regard  to  their 
resources or the use of their maritime space.
Nonetheless,  our  great  predecessors  were  able  to 
turn  those  difficulties  into  an  opportunity.  Realizing 
the  lack  of  international  rules  on  the  oceans,  they 
Indonesia  is  proud  to  have  been  a  part  of  the 
treaty-making  process  from  1958  to  1982,  in  which 
two  of  my  predecessors,  Ambassador  Hasjim  Djalal, 
former  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  and  Mr.  Mochtar 
Kusumaatmadja played instrumental roles establishing 
the Convention. We are forever indebted to them for the 
part that they played.
The world has changed since 1982. New challenges 
have emerged, while some long-standing problems still 
need to be addressed. However, even after 30 years, the 
Convention is still relevant today. Maritime boundaries 
were  a  sensitive  issue  that  needed  to  be  addressed 
between  countries.  We  are  content  that  the  process 
is  being  undertaken  peacefully  through  the  legal 
corridors  provided  in  the  Convention,  which  include 
bilateral negotiations, international judicial judgements 
and  utilization  of  the  three  main  institutions  of  the 
Convention.
The  Convention  also  provides  general  rules  for 
addressing  marine  environmental  degradation,  which 
has  indeed  become  a  new  problem  of  the  oceans.  As 
the main source of regulation for the oceans, numerous 
environmental conventions, such as the Convention on 
Biological Diversity and the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, have based their rules 
on  the  marine  environment  on  the  320  articles  of  the 
1982  Convention  and  its  nine  annexes.  However,  the 
general  rules  need  to  be  complemented  by  further 
strengthening  cooperation  at  the  regional  and  global 
levels.  Indonesia  believes  that  the  first  step  in  that 
regard is to comprehensively implement the Convention, 
including  its  ratification  by  countries  that  have  yet  to 
do so.
This  year,  the  Secretary-General  introduced  the 
Oceans  Compact.  It  is,  as  he  puts  it,  an  initiative  to 
strengthen  United  Nations  system-wide  coherence 
to  deliver  on  its  oceans-related  mandates.  Indonesia 
welcomes  this  initiative.  We  are  ready  to  support  the 
United  Nations  efforts  to  summon  collaboration  and 
accelerate progress in the achievement of the common 
goal  of  healthy  oceans  for  prosperity.  The  messages 
conveyed  by  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  are  of 
particular importance for Indonesia, but important for 
other nations as well. Oceans are able to absorb excess 
heat,  and  thus  contribute  to  the  moderation  of  global 
12-63751
25
A/67/PV.50
warming. Oceans are also the source of more than half 
the oxygen we breathe, and among the most promising 
answers for our food security strategy.
those 
lines 
alone, 
Along 
Indonesia 
feels 
compelled  to  push  forward  the  idea  of  the  sustainable 
development  of  the  oceans.  For  the  sake  of  our  future 
generations,  a  balance  between  the  economic,  social 
and environmental aspects of the oceans must become 
our  immediate  agenda.  While  the  strategies  that  are 
set out in the Compact are familiar in tone, we need to 
establish the Convention as the hig hest source of rules, 
and thus conduct our actions based on the Convention 
itself, including respect for State sovereignty.
Looking to the future, it is important for countries to 
accelerate the proper implementation of the Convention 
in  their  respective  national  legislations.  Countries 
also  need  to  refrain  from  using  force  to  resolve  their 
maritime  boundary  disputes,  and  focus  instead  on 
negotiations  based  on  the  set  of  rules  provided  in  the 
Convention.  We  believe  that  oceans  and  the  law  of 
the  sea  will  continue  to  be  an  important  issue  to  be 
discussed in the United Nations. The Assembly can rest 
assured of the support and active role of the delegation 
of Indonesia.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind 
members  that,  as  announced  in  the  Journal,  the 
following changes to the programme of work have been 
made. 
Consideration  of  agenda 
items  123,  “Global 
health  and  foreign  policy”,  and  127,  “Addressing 
the  socioeconomic  needs  of  individuals,  families 
and  societies  affected  by  autism  spectrum  disorders 
and  other  developmental  disorders”,  on  Wednesday, 
12  December  2012,  originally  scheduled  as  a  joint 
debate,  will  now  be  conducted  separately  in  the 
numerical order of the items.
Consideration  of  agenda  item  118,  “Strengthening 
of the United Nations system”, and its sub-item (a) will 
now be held on Monday, 17 December, as the first item.
Consideration  of  agenda  item  32,  “The  role  of 
diamonds in fuelling conf lict”, originally scheduled for 
Monday,  17  December,  will  now  be  held  on  Tuesday, 
18  December,  after  the  consideration  of  the  reports  of 
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth Committee).
Consideration  of  agenda  item  39,  “The  situation 
in  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan”,  originally 
scheduled  for  Monday,  17  December,  has  been 
postponed to a later date, to be announced.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  announce  that 
this  is  the  last  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
Ms.  Meriem  Heddache,  Meeting  Services  Assistant 
in  the  General  Assembly  Affairs  Branch  of  the 
Department  of  General  Assembly  and  Conference 
Management. Ms. Heddache has worked at the United 
Nations for more than 30 years. In the past few years, 
she has been responsible for the list of speakers in the 
plenary of the General Assembly. Her ability to manage 
that demanding task and her contribution to the smooth 
conduct  of  the  meetings  of  the  Assembly  has  been 
truly  significant.  I  would  like  to  ask  the  Assembly 
give her a round of applause in appreciation. We wish 
Ms. Heddache all the best. 
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
26 
12-63751
