United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
6th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 25 September 2012, 9 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.6
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
Agenda item 106
Report of the Secretary-General on the work 
of the Organization (A/67/1) 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 21 September 2012, 
the  General  Assembly  will  hear  a  presentation  by  the 
Secretary-General of his annual report on the work of 
the  Organization,  under  agenda  item  106.  I  give  the 
f loor to the Secretary-General. 
The  Secretary-General:  We  gather  annually  in 
this  great  Hall  to  look  soberly  and  without  illusion  at 
the state of our world. This year, I am here to sound the 
alarm  about  our  direction  as  a  human  family.  We  can 
all  see  widespread  insecurity  and  injustice,  inequality 
and  intolerance.  I  see  Governments  wasting  vast  and 
precious  funds  on  deadly  weapons  while  reducing 
investments in people. The severe and growing impacts 
of  climate  change  are  there  before  our  eyes,  yet  too 
many people in power seem willfully blind to the threat.
This 
is  a 
turmoil, 
time  of 
transition  and 
transformation — a time when time itself is not on our 
side. People want jobs and the prospect of a decent life. 
All  too  often,  what  they  get  instead  is  divisiveness, 
delay and denial of their dreams and aspirations.
We  need  look  no  farther  than  this  room  to  see 
expressions  of  the  thirst  for  progress.  A  large  number 
of  representatives  are  here  for  the  first  time  —  new 
leaders, installed by new voices, and expected to make 
decisive breaks with the past. Their people want to see 
results in real time, now, not the distant future.
The  United  Nations  rightly  faces 
the  same 
scrutiny,  the  same  impatience,  the  same  demands  for 
accountability. People do not look to the Organization 
to be simply a mirror ref lecting back a divided world. 
People  want  progress  and  solutions  today.  They  want 
ideas, Members’ leadership and concrete hope for the 
future. Our duty is to respond to those frustrations and 
yearnings.
My action agenda highlights the five imperatives I 
set out in January this year: sustainable development, 
prevention,  building  a  more  secure  world,  helping 
countries  in  transition  and  empowering  women  and 
youth.  I  take  heart  from  important  steps  forward  on 
some of those fronts. Extreme poverty has been cut in 
half  since  the  2000.  Democratic  transitions  are  under 
way  in  the  Arab  world,  Myanmar  and  many  other 
countries.  Africa’s  economic  growth  has  become  the 
fastest in the world. Asia and Latin America are making 
important advances. Still, we must raise our levels of 
ambition. We need more from each and every one here. 
The world needs more from our United Nations.
(spoke in French) 
Sustainable development is the key to our hopes for 
the future. It is my top priority as Secretary-General, 
yet poverty and inequality remain rampant. Our use of 
natural resources is pushing the planet to the limit of 
what  it  can  sustain.  Certain  ecosystems  are  reaching 
their breaking point. According to the best scientists in 
the world, we must change course before we discover 
that it is too late.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52029 (E)
*1252029*
A/67/PV.6
Yesterday,  the  President  of  the  World  Bank  and 
I  announced  that  the  Sustainable  Energy  for  All 
initiative  is  ready  to  deliver  tens  of  billions  of  dollars 
for  projects  to  enable  access  to  energy  and  energy 
efficiency.  Tomorrow,  I  will  launch  a  new  initiative, 
called Education First. On Thursday, we will announce 
major  additional  support  for  the  Scaling  Up  Nutrition 
initiative. In the past two years, the 260 partners of the 
Every  Woman,  Every  Child  initiative  have  disbursed 
$10 billion dollards in additional funds. We are proving, 
on  the  ground,  that  well-constructed  partnerships  can 
and are delivering results that none of us would be able 
to deliver alone.
The deadline for the Millenium Development Goals 
(MDGs) is little more than three years away. We must 
redouble our efforts to eradicate extreme poverty. The 
economic crisis cannot serve as an excuse to default on 
our commitment to the basic needs of all human beings.
Even  if  we  achieve  the  MDGs,  there  will  still 
be  much  to  do.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  pointed  the  way,  notably 
towards the adoption of sustainable development goals. 
Those new goals and the post-2015 development agenda 
will  guide  our  work  for  years  to  come.  The  MDGs 
sparked  a  remarkable  global  mobilization.  These 
new  frameworks  must  do  the  same:  speaking  to  and 
inspiring people across the world.
(spoke in English)
Action  on  climate  change  remains  a  major  piece 
of  unfinished  business.  Last  December  at  Durban, 
Member  States  agreed  to  reach  a  legally  binding 
agreement by 2015. Now, they must make good on that 
promise. Time is running out on our ability to limit the 
rise in global temperature to 2˚C. Changing course will 
not be easy, but to see this as only a burden misses the 
bigger  picture.  Sustainability  and  the  green  economy 
offer compelling opportunities to promote jobs, growth, 
innovation and long-term stability. The future we want 
can be ours, if we act now.
Just as there can be no peace without development, 
there  can  be  no  development  without  peace.  I  am 
profoundly  concerned  about  continued  violence  in 
Afghanistan  and  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. I urge the Sudan and South Sudan to resolve all 
remaining post-secession issues.
Somalia has made courageous advances, and Libya 
has held its first free elections in half a century.
Gains  must  be  nurtured  and  sustained.  We  must 
keep  our  focus  on  preventing  conf licts  before  they 
erupt, and on settling disputes through peaceful means.
Myamnar’s 
leaders  have  shown  courage  and 
determination  in  moving  along  the  path  of  democracy 
and  reconciliation.  The  country  still  faces  many 
challenges, from economic reform to the protection of 
ethnic  minorities.  As  the  Government  and  citizenry 
work  together  to  meet  those  responsibilities,  the 
international  community  and  the  United  Nations  must 
provide the strongest possible support.
The  crisis  in  the  Sahel  is  not  getting  sufficient 
attention  and  support.  Poverty,  fragility,  drought  and 
sectarian  tensions  are  threats  to  stability  across  the 
region.  Unconstitutional  changes  of  Government  have 
taken place all too frequently. Extremism is on the rise. 
Arms are easy to obtain, while jobs are hard to find.
The 
international  community  needs  a  major 
concerted  effort  to  address  that  alarming  situation. 
Tomorrow,  I  will  outline  our  ideas  for  an  integrated 
strategy.
Governments  and  organizations  in  the  region,  as 
well as international partners, will work out the details 
in the coming weeks. I urge Member States to engage 
and provide strong assistance.
The  situation  in  the  Sahel  highlights  the  need  to 
strengthen  early  warning  for  development.  Sensors 
and seismographs across the world help us prepare for 
natural disasters. We must do more to detect the tremors 
of distress facing the poorest and most vulnerable.
We  must  also  focus  greater  attention  on  food 
security  and  nutritional  resilience.  For  millions  of 
people, frequent shocks are the new norm. Food prices 
are  increasingly  volatile,  provoking  public  anxiety, 
panic buying and civil unrest. We need to bolster safety 
nets.  We  must  ramp  up  investments  in  sustainable 
agriculture,  particularly  for  smallholder  farmers. 
Governments  must  not  impose  trade  restrictions  on 
grains or other agricultural products. That reduces food 
supplies  and  discourages  farmers  from  growing  more. 
Together, we can avoid the food crises we have seen in 
recent years and achieve our goal of zero hunger.
The  situation  in  Syria  grows  worse  by  the  day. 
The crisis is no longer limited to Syria; it is a regional 
calamity  with  global  ramifications.  It  is  a  serious  and 
growing  threat  to  international  peace  and  security 
that  requires  Security  Council  action.  I  call  on  the 
2 
12-52029
international  community,  especially 
the  members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  countries  in  the  region, 
to  solidly  and  concretely  support  the  efforts  of  Joint 
Special  Representative  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. 
We  must  stop  the  violence  and  f lows  of  arms  to  both 
sides and set in motion a Syrian-led transition as soon 
as possible.
Humanitarian  needs  are  escalating  in  and  beyond 
Syria.  The  international  community  should  not  look 
the other way as violence spirals out of control. Brutal 
human rights abuses continue to be committed, mainly 
by the Government but also by opposition groups. Such 
crimes  must  not  go  unpunished.  There  is  no  statute 
of  limitations  for  such  extreme  violence.  It  is  the 
duty  of  our  generation  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for 
international  crimes,  in  Syria  and  elsewhere.  It  is  our 
duty  to  give  tangible  meaning  to  the  responsibility  to 
protect.
The  winds  of  change  in  the  Arab  world  and 
elsewhere will continue to blow. After decades of harsh 
occupation and humiliating restrictions in almost every 
aspect  of  their  lives,  the  Palestinians  must  be  able  to 
realize their right to a viable State of their own. Israel 
must  be  able  to  live  in  peace  and  security,  free  from 
threats and rockets. The two-State solution is the only 
sustainable  option,  yet  the  door  may  be  closing  for 
good.  The  continued  growth  of  Israeli  settlements  in 
the occupied Palestinian territory seriously undermines 
efforts  towards  peace.  We  must  break  that  dangerous 
impasse.
I also reject both the language of delegitimization 
and  threats  of  potential  military  action  by  one  State 
against another. Any such attacks would be devastating. 
The shrill war talk of recent weeks has been alarming, 
and should remind us of the need for peaceful solutions 
and  for  full  respect  for  the  Charter  and  international 
law. Leaders have a responsibility to use their voices to 
lower  tensions,  instead  of  raising  the  temperature  and 
volatility of the moment.
Building a more secure world also means pursuing 
our  goal  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  As 
long  as  such  weapons  exist,  we  are  all  at  risk.  I  look 
forward  to  a  successful  conference  later  this  year  on 
the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear 
weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction.
Iran must prove its intentions for its programme are 
entirely  peaceful.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
A/67/PV.6
of  Korea  must  move  towards  the  denuclearization  of 
the  Korean  peninsula.  All  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions should be implemented in full and without 
delay.
We  shall  have  neither  peace  nor  development 
without  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law. 
The empowerment of women, the protection of children, 
and the treaties and declarations that have extended the 
umbrella of protection are our touchstones. Yesterday’s 
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National 
and International Levels sent a strong message about the 
importance of international law, justice and institutions 
within and among nations. 
Over  the  past  two  weeks  a  disgraceful  act  of 
great    insensitivity  has  led  to  justifiable  offence  and 
unjustifiable violence. Freedom of speech and assembly 
are  fundamental,  but  neither  of  those  freedoms  is  a 
license  to  incite  or  commit  violence.  Yet  we  live  in  a 
world  where,  too  often,  divisions  are  exploited  for 
short-term  political  gain.  Too  many  people  are  ready 
to  take  small  f lames  of  difference  and  turn  them  into 
a bonfire. Too many people are tolerant of intolerance. 
The moderate majority should not be a silent majority. 
It must empower itself and say to bigots and extremists 
alike:  “you  do  not  speak  for  us”.  Responsible political 
and community leaders must step up at this time. 
(spoke in French)
With  so  much  at  stake,  the  United  Nations  must 
continue  to  renew  itself.  We  must  deliver  as  one, 
cooperate  across  disciplines,  structures  and  duty 
stations.  We  are  building  a  global  Secretariat  capable 
of  supporting  our  global  presence,  thanks  to  shared 
services,  integrated  approaches  and  innovative  uses 
of technology. Staff mobility is a crucial first step. An 
initiative  of  that  nature  is  long  overdue.  We  will  be 
making a proposal on that subject in the weeks ahead, 
and we will need the Assembly’s support. 
Let  us  work  together  for  a  streamlined  budget 
process  built  on  trust.  Micromanagement  serves  no 
one  —  not  Member  States  wanting  quick  results  and 
not the representatives of the Secretariat, who share the 
Assembly’s desire for excellence. As Secretary-General 
I  should  have  enough  room  to  manage  in  a  dynamic 
environment. 
Let us also prepare ourselves to fully take advantage 
of the power of partnerships in all fields. 
12-52029
3
A/67/PV.6
I  will  shortly  be  offering  specific  proposals  for 
strengthening  our  partnership  capacity.  That  will 
allow us to deliver more and better results, to enhance 
accountability  and  to  improve  coherence.  The  support 
of  Member  States  will  be  essential  if  we  are  to  meet 
the  many  important  mandates  that  they  entrust  to  the 
United Nations.
Today  our  nation  stands  with  confidence  before 
the  world  once  again,  less  than  two  decades  after 
having been left out of this Hall. We do so as a nation 
steadfastly  determined 
the  common 
interests of mankind, committed to responsible global 
citizenship  and  dedicated  to  helping  shape  a  world  in 
which peace can triumph and international law prevail.
to  advance 
A strengthened United Nations will be pivotal to all 
that we hope to achieve for the peoples of the world. Let 
us prove that the United Nations is able to reform itself 
and change with the times.
(spoke in English)
I have always put people first and challenges at the 
centre. We have worked together to find solutions to the 
problems that matter to people day by day and that keep 
them up at night.
World  leaders  hold  in  their  hands  the  powers  of 
the  State  and  the  levers  of  Government.  Their  people 
expect them to listen to their aspirations and to unleash 
their  energies  and  ideas.  The  world  expects  them  to 
work with one another for the common good.
No  one  can  do  everything.  But  if  we  are  united, 
each of us, in our own way, can do something. Together, 
if we all uphold our collective responsibilities, we can 
meet today’s tests, seize the opportunities of an era of 
dramatic change, and give new life to the principles and 
purposes of our founding Charter. I count on the strong 
leadership  and  commitment  of  those  present  today  to 
make this world a better place for all.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his presentation.
Agenda item 8
General debate
The President: It is a great honour to stand before 
the Assembly as President at its sixty-seventh session. 
My  candidature  was  put  forth  by  a  proud  democratic 
country, which I have been greatly privileged to serve 
during two successive terms as Foreign Minister.
Like many other nations, mine has travelled through 
periods of tragedy and periods of glory. At the close of 
the twentieth century, a founding Member of the United 
Nations and a proud victor over fascism descended into 
ferocious  internal  strife.  The  ensuing  devastation  and 
fratricide left deep wounds in their wake. A painful era 
has now come to an end. 
The  General  Assembly  has  been  defined  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ of the United Nations. It is the most august body 
of  sovereign  States  ever  conceived  by  mankind  and  a 
grand  pantheon  of  hope  for  the  peoples  of  the  world. 
Its  founding  compact,  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
was  written  so  that  every  one  of  its  Member  States 
could  observe  the  same  rules  and  adhere  to  the  same 
principles, established as a result of the historic victory 
over  fascism.  Its  purpose  was  clear:  to  set  up,  for  the 
first  time  in  history,  a  workable  international  system 
that aspires to justice, pledging not only equal rights to 
all nations but also ensuring their equal dignity.
This is not a merely political organization, said the 
President of the General Assembly at its second session, 
Brazil’s  Oswaldo  Aranha.  It  is  not  a  simple  covenant 
between nations, but an undertaking in human thought 
and  sentiment.  From  here,  he  said,  emanates  a  faith 
that  the  peoples  of  the  Earth  may  learn  to  know  and 
trust each other in the full understanding of a common 
destiny.
The  geopolitical  landscape  of  our  time  is  unlike 
any  the  world  has  ever  seen,  one  of  truly  global 
interdependence.  We  are  beset  by  a  series  of  ruptures 
that seem to be building in intensity. Their effects can 
barely  be  kept  in  check.  The  international  system  is 
becoming at once more volatile and more unpredictable. 
In  my  view,  a  number  of  distinct  variables  in  the 
increasingly  complex  global  equation  require  our 
heightened attention. Allow me to focus on three of the 
most important ones.
The  first  is  across-the-board  repositioning.  A 
growing  number  of  States  are  determined  to  enhance 
their  external  engagement,  aspiring  to  play  greater 
roles  in  their  respective  regions  and  beyond.  As  a 
result,  power  and  inf luence  in  the  international  arena 
are becoming more diffuse.
Virtually  no  one’s position  is  the  same  today  as  it 
was just a generation ago, making it more difficult for 
a meaningful and enduring consensus to be reached on 
significant items on our shared agenda.
4 
12-52029
Secondly,  in  our  era,  capabilities  once  thought  to 
be exclusively in the hands of States, such as the ability 
to inf lict harm on a massive scale, could become more 
easily  accessible  to  non-State  actors.  As  the  world 
becomes de facto smaller, countries have come to feel 
more  exposed.  We  must  find  a  way  to  act  in  concert, 
so  that  the  legitimate  needs  and  concerns  of  Member 
States can be adequately met.
A  third  variable  in  the  new  global  equation  is  the 
quest for empowerment. Whatever the specifics of their 
circumstances  and  grievances,  populations  across  the 
world  seek  to  have  a  greater  say  in  how  their  destiny 
will be shaped. Today this is perhaps most manifest in 
the Middle East. The Arab Spring advanced democratic 
aspirations  in  a  number  of  countries;  the  fate  of  some 
others still hangs in the balance.
There are concerns, however, that the Arab Spring 
may  generate  a  number  of  unintended  consequences. 
These  include  the  reawakening  of  sectarian  loyalties 
and ethnic as well as tribal tensions, many of them long-
suppressed. The legacy of the grand, noble quest of the 
peoples of the Middle East for empowerment hinges on 
how these and other dangers are going to be dealt with.
Given  the  region’s  global,  political,  economic  and 
cultural significance, the unfolding events in that part 
of the world will have far-reaching implications for the 
entire planet.
Rarely has it been more necessary for the world to 
draw closer together. It is to that endeavour that I believe 
we should devote the full scope of our resources. That 
will  require,  however,  that  we  turn  once  more  to  the 
first principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In 
so  doing,  we  will  be  able  to  give  renewed  meaning  to 
the original intent of our founders. 
Those  who  drafted  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations understood that when nations feel secure, they 
are  much  more  likely  to  unclench  their  fists  and  give 
the  process  of  peacefully  settling  disputes  a  genuine 
chance to succeed. In order to do so, it will be critically 
important to reinforce universal adherence to accepted 
principles and rules, implemented without partiality or 
favour. Lack of clarity or selective enforcement, on the 
other hand, can quickly erode the basis for trust. That 
can  easily  lead  to  a  situation  in  which  nothing  more 
than lip service is paid to the principles, and the rules 
lose virtually all meaning. 
Such  a  scenario  is  clearly  not  in  the  interest  of 
the  Organization.  I  believe  that  we  must  take  decisive 
A/67/PV.6
action to prevent it from ever coming to pass. I strongly 
believe  that  essential  to  such  efforts  is  reinforcing 
respect  for  the  equality,  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  United  Nations  States  Members.  That  is 
indispensable  to  achieving  the  first  stated  purpose  of 
the  United  Nations,  namely,  to  maintain  international 
peace and security. 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  enjoins  the 
parties to any dispute to first of all seek a solution by, 
inter alia, negotiation, mediation, arbitration or judicial 
settlement.  With  that  in  mind,  I  have  proposed  the 
following theme for this year’s general debate: “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or  situations  by  peaceful  means”.  In  taking  up  that 
critical issue, let us not forget that peace is not merely 
the absence of war. It also necessitates the reconciliation 
of those who are at odds. Only by so doing can we ever 
hope to produce what a great New York philanthropist 
called,  more  than  a  century  ago  and  not  far  from  this 
building, “the enthronement of lasting peace, a victory 
without tears”.
A  solution  to  an  international  problem  can  be 
legitimately  achieved  only  upon  renunciation  of 
unilateralism;  it  can  become  truly  sustainable  only 
when its provisions are willingly accepted and fulfilled 
in  good  faith.  When  parties  commit  to  a  settlement,  I 
believe that the General Assembly, coming together in 
consensus,  can  act  as  a  moral  guarantor  of  what  has 
been agreed. 
I  invite  members  to  share  their  thoughts  on  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  —  a  fundamental  task 
of  the  United  Nations.  I  look  forward  to  hearing  the 
Assembly’s concrete proposals on how the mechanisms 
that  are  in  place  can  be  better  utilized,  and  to  engage 
with  members  on  incorporating  new  ideas  into  the 
overall efforts to revitalize the General Assembly. 
Over the past several decades, our debates have been 
enriched  by  the  views  of  civil  society  representatives. 
With  notable  exceptions,  however,  we  have  not  yet 
found  a  way  to  draw  upon  the  tremendous  work  done 
by the world’s public policy institutes and think tanks. 
As President, I intend to launch a number of initiatives 
to harness their wisdom and experience. 
I  have  also  established  a  high-level  informal 
advisory  panel,  composed  of  distinguished  world 
statesmen,  whose  purpose  will  be  to  provide  me  with 
guidance and advice on the myriad issues that will be 
considered by the General Assembly. 
12-52029
5
A/67/PV.6
In my view, sustainable development is one of the 
most  important  conf lict  prevention  resources  at  our 
disposal. It is becoming increasingly prominent on the 
global  peace  and  security  agenda.  That  is  in  part  due 
to the attention we have all devoted to the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  As  President,  I  will  work  with 
Member  States  on  bringing  us  closer  to  fulfilling  that 
historic objective. 
The  General  Assembly  also  needs  to  focus  on 
the  post-2015  agenda.  What  was  agreed  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  will  need  to  be  implemented  by  this  body. 
That  includes  preparations  to  launch  a  high-level 
forum,  which  should  be  convened  at  the  beginning  of 
the next session. 
The General Assembly has also been mandated to 
establish a working group to propose a list of sustainable 
development  goals  for  consideration  and  adoption 
by  the  plenary.  As  President,  I  will  encourage  that 
process, which should involve strengthening a number 
of  existing  United  Nations  funds  and  programmes, 
including the United Nations Environment Programme.
It  is  difficult  to  imagine  the  Rio+20  agenda 
becoming  truly  effective  without  the  mobilization  of 
additional  resources.  In  accordance  with  the  mandate 
given  to  the  General  Assembly  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  I 
will  work  to  establish  an  intergovernmental  process, 
under  the  framework  of  this  body,  to  propose  options 
on  an  effective  financing  strategy.  I  believe  that 
moving  forward  in  the  bold  undertaking  envisaged 
by  the  Rio+20  Conference  not  only  complements,  but 
will decisively reinforce all other efforts to strengthen 
international peace and security. 
in 
further  engage 
To  be  successful,  I  believe  that  the  General 
Assembly  should 
the  global 
development  discourse.  Greater  emphasis  ought  to 
be  placed  on  key  economic  issues  such  as  growth, 
job  creation,  the  production  of  new  green  goods  and 
services  and  a  more  equitable  trading  environment.  It 
is  fortunate  that  the  Charter  tasks  the  United  Nations 
with  achieving  cooperation  in  solving  international 
economic problems. 
Sovereign equality loses much of its meaning if it is 
understood solely as a political principle, downplaying 
the  economic  dimension.  Each  in  its  own  way,  the 
Group  of  Eight,  the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  World  Bank, 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  and  others  play 
critical  roles.  However,  I  strongly  believe  that  the 
General  Assembly  should  participate  more  actively  in 
advancing the global economic governance agenda. 
During  the  sixty-third  session,  we  endorsed  the 
outcome  document  of  the  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development  (resolution  63/303,  annex).  It  proposed 
increasing 
coherence 
and  exchanges,  both  in  terms  of  policies  and  actions 
between the United Nations and international financial 
institutions as well as relevant regional organizations. 
coordination, 
cooperation, 
The  material  destiny  of  our  planet  must  be 
determined in a more inclusive fashion. No country can 
lift itself out of poverty if it has no right to have its voice 
heard.  That  is  why,  as  President,  I  intend  to  convene 
an informal, high-level meeting over the course of the 
current  session.  Its  aim  would  be  the  establishment, 
in the next few years, of a consultation framework for 
effective  collaboration  among  the  General  Assembly 
and  international  financial  and  trade  institutions,  as 
well as groupings such as the G-20.
is 
Another  conf lict  prevention  resource  I  believe 
is  underutilized 
the  United  Nations  Alliance 
of  Civilizations.  Established  as  a  soft-power  tool 
of  preventative  diplomacy,  it  seeks  to  overcome 
differences  and  tensions  within  and  among  different 
cultures,  faiths  and  societies,  all  the  while  guarding 
against  the  erasing  hand  of  uniformity  that  some  fear 
could be a consequence of globalization. 
We  all  sense  the  growing  danger  of  what  the  ills 
and grievances of past centuries can inf lict upon us, if 
they continue to be reawakened. Guided by the General 
Assembly,  the  Alliance  could  help  the  world  expunge 
the  venoms  of  its  divisive  past  more  effectively.  I 
believe  that  enlarging  the  common  denominator  of 
values  and  principles  that  bind  us  to  each  other  truly 
serves  the  cause  of  peace.  As  President,  I  will  work 
closely  with  the  Alliance  on  ways  to  put  our  diverse 
identities more constructively in its service. That would 
help us ensure the future is no longer adversely affected 
by exclusionary historical narratives. 
As has been the case since its founding, the United 
Nations  will  be  only  as  strong  as  the  Member  States 
choose to make it. 
As  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  once  famously  said,  an 
institution  is  the  lengthened  shadow  of  man.  In  this 
era  of  transformation,  I  believe  that  strengthening 
our  collective  faith  in  the  approach  that  only  this 
Organization  can  legitimately  provide  is  the  safest 
6 
12-52029
course  for  navigating  away  from  the  many  rocks  and 
shoals  in  the  path  of  establishing  a  genuine  global 
partnership for the twenty-first century. 
One  of  the  earliest  advocates  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  was  Cicero,  who  famously 
expressed the longing “Cedant arma togae” — that arms 
might yield to law. From the days of the ancients to our 
own times, generations of valiant men and women have 
tirelessly endeavoured to advance that noble cause. The 
culmination of those great efforts is the United Nations 
Charter — our surest guide in this time of consequence. 
Let  us  bring  to  bear  on  the  problems  that  we  face 
a  renewed  spirit  of  cooperation,  a  tenacity  of  purpose 
and  a  will  to  overcome  differences.  Let  us  find  the 
courage  to  master  the  many  challenges  ahead  and,  in 
so  doing,  work  to  assert  the  pre-eminence  of  justice. 
Let us have faith in our ability to come together in the 
full understanding of our common destiny so that this 
Assembly  may  go  down  in  history  as  an  Assembly  of 
peace. 
Before giving the f loor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than  15  minutes,  to  enable  all  speakers  to  be  heard  at 
a  given  meeting.  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  speakers 
to  deliver  their  statements,  within  that  time  frame,  at 
a  moderate  speed  so  that  interpretation  into  the  six 
official  United  Nations  languages  may  be  provided 
properly.
I would also like to draw attention to the decision 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  previous  sessions, 
namely, that the practice of expressing congratulations 
inside  the  Hall  after  a  speech  has  been  delivered 
is  strongly  discouraged.  In  that  connection,  after 
delivering their statements, speakers are invited to exit 
the  Hall  through  Room  GA-200,  located  behind  the 
podium, before returning to their seats.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the sixty-seventh session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Finally,  I  should  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to the fact that during the general 
debate,  official  photographs  of  all  speakers  are  taken 
by  the  Department  of  Public  Information.  Members 
A/67/PV.6
interested in obtaining those photographs are requested 
to contact the Photo Library of the United Nations.
Address by Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic  of  Brazil,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to  invite  her  to 
address the Assembly.
President Rousseff (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text provided by the delegation): Once again, a woman’s 
voice  is  opening  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly.  For  many,  we  women  are  “half  the  sky”. 
However,  we  wish  to  be  half  the  Earth  as  well,  with 
equal  rights  and  opportunities,  free  from  all  forms  of 
discrimination  and  violence,  capable  of  building  our 
own  emancipation  and,  with  it,  of  contributing  to  the 
full empowerment of all.
A  year  after  my  statement  at  this  same  rostrum 
(see A/66/PV.11), I note that many of the problems that 
already troubled us in September 2011 remain. Today, 
I  want  to  again  consider  a  few  of  those  issues,  whose 
solutions are becoming increasingly urgent.
The  grave  economic  crisis  that  began  in  2008 
has  taken  on  new  and  worrisome  aspects.  Opting  for 
orthodox  fiscal  policies  has  been  exacerbating  the 
recession  in  developed  economies,  with  repercussions 
for  us  as  emerging  countries,  including  Brazil.  The 
main leaders of the developed world have not yet found 
the  path  that  combines  appropriate  fiscal  adjustment 
with  measures  to  stimulate  investment  and  demand, 
which are indispensable to halt the recession and ensure 
economic growth. 
Monetary  policies  cannot  be  the  only  response  to 
the growing unemployment, the increase in poverty and 
the  dismay  that  affects  the  most  vulnerable  sectors  of 
the population throughout the world. The central banks 
of developed countries continue to pursue expansionist 
monetary  policies,  which  causes  an  imbalance  in 
exchange  rates.  The  resulting  artificial  appreciation 
12-52029
7
A/67/PV.6
of  emerging  countries’  currencies  causes  them  to  lose 
market  space,  which  further  exacerbates  the  global 
recession.
We  cannot  accept  the  legitimate  trade  protection 
initiatives  of  developing  countries  being  unfairly 
classified  as  protectionism.  We  must  remember  that 
legitimate trade protection measures are in accordance 
with  the  rules  of  the  World  Trade  Organization.  We 
should  fight  protectionism  and  all  forms  of  trade 
manipulation, since they create greater competitiveness 
in a spurious and fraudulent way.
There  can  be  no  effective  response  to  the  crisis 
without  strengthening  cooperation  efforts  among 
countries  and  multilateral  bodies,  such  as  the  Group 
of  Twenty,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the 
World  Bank.  Such  cooperation  must  seek  to  reshape 
the  relationship  between  fiscal  and  monetary  policies 
in  order  to  prevent  the  recession  from  worsening,  to 
control the currency war and to again stimulate global 
demand.
We know from our own experience that the national 
debt of States and bank and financial debts will not be 
addressed in the context of a recession. On the contrary, 
recession  only  exacerbates  such  problems.  It  is  urgent 
that  we  establish  a  comprehensive  agreement  for  the 
coordinated  resumption  of  global  economic  growth  in 
order  to  prevent  the  despair  caused  by  unemployment 
and a lack of opportunities.
My  country  has  been  doing  its  part.  In  recent 
years,  we  have  pursued  prudent  economic  policies, 
accumulated  significant  foreign  exchange  reserves, 
strongly reduced public debt and, with innovative social 
policies,  lifted  40  million  Brazilians  out  of  poverty, 
thereby strengthening a large domestic market.
Like  all  countries,  we  were  affected  by  the  crisis. 
However, despite the temporary slowing in our growth 
rate,  we  have  managed  to  maintain  extremely  high 
employment  levels  and  to  continue  to  reduce  social 
inequality  while  significantly 
increasing  workers’ 
income  levels.  We  have  overcome  the  incorrect  view 
according  to  which  measures  to  stimulate  growth 
are  incompatible  with  austerity  plans.  That  is  a  false 
dilemma.  Fiscal  responsibility  is  as  necessary  as 
growth  measures  are  indispensable,  because  fiscal 
consolidation  can  be  sustainable  only  in  a  context  of 
economic recovery.
History  reveals  that  austerity,  when  exaggerated 
and isolated from growth, is self-defeating. Brazil has 
chosen to face both of those challenges simultaneously. 
While exerting strict control over public spending, we 
have  increased  our  investments  in  infrastructure  and 
education.  While controlling inf lation, we have acted 
vigorously  through  policies  aimed  at  social  inclusion 
and  poverty  eradication.  Furthermore,  while  carrying 
out structural reforms in the financial and welfare areas, 
we have reduced the tax burden and the cost of energy, 
and we have invested in infrastructure and knowledge 
to generate science, technology and innovation.
There  are  moments  in  which  we  cannot  choose 
between  one  alternative  or  the  other.  Both  must  be 
developed separately at the same time.
Just  as  in  2011,  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa 
continue  to  be  at  the  center  of  the  attention  of  the 
international community. Important social movements, 
with  different  political  orientations,  have  swept 
away  despotic  regimes  and  brought  about  transition 
processes whose meaning and direction still cannot be 
clearly discerned. However, it is not difficult to identify 
in almost all those movements a cry of protest against 
poverty,  unemployment  and  the  lack  of  opportunities 
and civil rights imposed by authoritarian governments 
on  large  sectors  of  those  societies,  especially  young 
people.  Nor  is  it  difficult  to  find  in  those  events  the 
traces  of  historical  grievances  caused  by  decades  of 
colonial or neocolonial policies carried out in the name 
of  a  supposedly  civilizing  agenda.  Little  by  little,  the 
economic interests behind those policies became clear.
Today,  we  are  witnessing  with  consternation 
the  unfolding  of  the  dire  situation  in  Syria.  Brazil 
condemns  in  the  strongest  terms  the  violence  that 
continues  to  claim  lives  in  that  country.  Syria  is 
witnessing  a  large-scale  humanitarian  tragedy  on  its 
territory and in that of its neighbors. The Government 
in  Damascus  bears  the  largest  share  of  responsibility 
for  the  cycle  of  violence  that  has  victimized  a  large 
number  of  civilians,  especially  women,  children  and 
young  people.  However,  we  are  also  aware  of  the 
responsibilities of armed opposition groups, especially 
those  that  increasingly  rely  on  foreign  military  and 
logistical support.
As President of a country that is home to millions 
of  people  of  Syrian  descent,  I  call  on  the  parties  to 
the  conf lict  to  lay  down  their  weapons  and  join  the 
mediation efforts being undertaken by the joint United 
Nations-Arab  League  special  envoy.  There  is  no 
military  solution  to  the  Syrian  crisis.  Diplomacy  and 
8 
12-52029
dialogue  are  not  simply  our  best  option;  they  are  the 
only option.
As  President  of  a  country  where  thousands  and 
thousands  of  Brazilian  Muslims  live,  I  declare  here 
today  our  vehement  repudiation  of  the  escalation 
of  Islamophobic  prejudice 
in  Western  countries. 
Brazil  is  one  of  the  players  in  the  generous  Alliance 
of  Civilizations  initiative  originally  launched  by  the 
Turkish Government.
With  the  same  vehemence,  we  repudiate  the 
terrorist acts that took the lives of American diplomats 
in Libya.
With our eyes still set upon the Middle East, where 
some of the most important challenges to international 
peace and security lie, I wish to once more touch upon 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  question.  I  reiterate  my  words 
of 2011, when I expressed the Brazilian Government’s 
support for the recognition of the Palestinian State as a 
full  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  I  added  then,  and 
I repeat today, that only a free and sovereign Palestine 
will be able to fulfil Israel’s legitimate desires for peace 
with its neighbours, security in its borders and regional 
political stability.
The  international  community  has  encountered 
growing difficulty in dealing with the exacerbation of 
regional  conf licts.  That  is  clear  from  the  stalemates 
within  the  Security  Council.  It  is  one  of  the  gravest 
problems  that  we  face.  The  crisis  that  began  in  2008 
demonstrated  the  need  for  reform  of  the  mechanisms 
of global economic governance. In point of fact, to this 
day we have still not fully implemented such reforms. 
Increasingly  intense  regional  wars  and  conf licts,  the 
tragic  loss  of  human  lives  and  the  immense  material 
losses  for  the  peoples  involved  all  demonstrate  the 
utmost urgency of undertaking the institutional reform 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  of  its  Security 
Council.
We cannot allow the Council to be replaced, as has 
been the case, by coalitions that are formed without its 
consent, beyond its control and without due regard for 
international law. The use of force without authorization 
by  the  Council  is  clearly  illegal,  yet  it  is  beginning  to 
be regarded in some quarters as an acceptable option. It 
is by no means acceptable. The ease with which some 
resort to that kind of action results from the stalemates 
that paralyse the Council. Because of that, the Council 
must urgently be reformed.
A/67/PV.6
Brazil  will  always  fight  to  ensure  that  decisions 
emanating from the United Nations prevail. But we want 
legitimate actions, founded on international legality. In 
this spirit, I have defended the need for “responsibility 
while  protecting”  as  a  necessary  complement  to  the 
responsibility to protect.
Multilateralism 
is 
stronger 
Conference 
today  after 
on 
the 
Sustainable 
United  Nations 
Development  —  Rio+20.  Together,  during  those  days 
in  June,  we  held  the  largest  and  most  participative 
conference  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations. 
We  were  able  to  take  firm  steps  towards  the  historic 
consolidation  of  a  new  paradigm:  to  grow,  to  include, 
to  protect  and  to  preserve  —  that  is,  sustainable 
development. I thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
and Ambassador Sha Zukang for their efforts and their 
close collaboration with Brazil, before and throughout 
the Conference.
The  outcome  document  that  we  approved  by 
consensus  in  Rio  (resolution  66/288,  annex)  not  only 
preserves  the  legacy  of  1992  but  also  sets  the  starting 
point  for  a  sustainable  development  agenda  for  the 
twenty-first  century,  with  a  focus  on  the  eradication 
of  poverty,  on  the  conscientious  use  of  natural 
resources and on sustainable patterns of production and 
consumption.
The United Nations has before it a number of tasks 
mandated by the Rio Conference. In particular, I would 
like to make reference to the definition of the sustainable 
development  goals.  Rio+20  shone  a  powerful  light  on 
the  future  we  want.  We  have  an  obligation  to  heed 
the  many  warnings  being  sounded  by  science  and 
society.  We  must  consider  climate  change  one  of  the 
main  challenges  to  present  and  future  generations. 
The Brazilian Government is firmly committed to the 
targets  for  controlling  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
to  the  unrelenting  fight  against  deforestation  in  the 
Amazon rainforest.
In 2009, we voluntarily took on commitments and 
adopted  them  as  laws.  Those  targets  are  particularly 
ambitious  for  a  developing  country,  which  must  deal 
with pressing demands of all types in order to promote 
the  well-being  of  its  population.  We  hope  that  those 
countries  that  bear  a  greater  historical  responsibility 
for  climate  change  and  that  have  greater  means  with 
which to deal with it will fulfil their obligations to the 
international community.
12-52029
9
A/67/PV.6
Another  United  Nations  initiative  we  commend  is 
the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. Brazil 
is  engaged  in  efforts  to  protect  lives  and  reduce  road 
accidents, one of the main causes of death among young 
people  of  the  world.  To  that  end,  our  Government 
is  developing  a  wide-ranging  awareness-raising 
campaign  together  with  the  Fédération  Internationale 
de l’Automobile.
In a context of environmental challenges, economic 
crises  and  threats  to  peace  in  different  parts  of  the 
world,  Brazil  continues  committed  to  working  with 
its  neighbours  to  build  an  environment  of  democracy, 
peace,  prosperity  and  social  justice.  We  have  made 
great  progress  in  integrating  the  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  region  as  a  priority  for  international 
cooperation. 
regimes 
is  being  preserved 
Our  region  is  a  good  example  for  the  world.  The 
rule  of  law  that  we  have  achieved  by  overcoming 
authoritarian 
and 
strengthened.  Democracy  is  not  a  heritage  immune 
to  attacks.  In  order  to  avoid  setbacks,  the  Southern 
Common  Market  and  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations have been firm when they had to be, because we 
consider  integration  and  democracy  to  be  inseparable 
principles. I also reaffirm our commitment to keeping 
our  region  free  from  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  In 
that  regard,  I  wish  to  recall  the  existence  of  immense 
arsenals that, in addition to threatening all humankind, 
aggravate  tensions  and  hamper  efforts  towards  peace. 
The world clamours for food instead of weapons, for the 
billions  of  men,  women  and  children  who  suffer  from 
the cruelest punishment inf licted on humanity: hunger. 
Finally, I wish to refer to a brother country, beloved 
by all Latin Americans and Caribbeans — Cuba. Cuba 
has  made  great  progress  in  bringing  its  economic 
model up to date. To continue on its path, it needs the 
support  of  partners  both  near  and  far.  Cooperation  on 
Cuba’s progress is, however, hampered by the economic 
embargo  that  has  plagued  its  population  for  decades. 
The time has long since passed for us to put an end to 
that anachronism, which is condemned by the immense 
majority of Members of the United Nations.
This year, we watched the Olympic and Paralympic 
Games  brilliantly  organized  by  the  United  Kingdom. 
With the closing of the London Olympic Games, Brazil 
has  begun  the  countdown  towards  the  Rio  de  Janeiro 
Olympic Games in 2016, which will be preceded by the 
2014 World Cup. Every two years, during the Summer 
and  Winter  Games,  humanity  seems  to  reawaken  to 
values  that  should  inspire  us  permanently:  tolerance, 
respect  for  differences,  equality,  inclusion,  friendship 
and  understanding.  Those  principles  are  also  the 
foundation of human rights and of this Organization. At 
the opening of the sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly, I propose to all the nations represented here 
that they let the ideals of the Olympic f lame shine upon 
them.
Strengthening  the  United  Nations  is  necessary 
at  this  stage  when  multipolarity  opens  a  historic  new 
perspective. We must work towards that end. We must 
work to ensure that in the multipolarity that is coming 
to  prevail,  cooperation  predominates  over  conf lict, 
dialogue overcomes threats and negotiated solutions are 
reached before and forestall interventions involving the 
use of force. I reiterate that in this necessarily collective 
effort, which presupposes the quest for consensus, the 
United  Nations  has  a  key  role  to  play,  particularly  as 
the  Organization  and  its  various  bodies  become  more 
representative and more legitimate and therefore more 
effective.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly 
I wish to thank the President of the Federative Republic 
of Brazil for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America. 
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States  of  America,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Obama: I would like to begin today by 
telling  the  Assembly  about  an  American  named  Chris 
Stevens. Chris was born in a town called Grass Valley, 
California,  the  son  of  a  lawyer  and  a  musician.  As  a 
young  man,  Chris  joined  the  Peace  Corps  and  taught 
10 
12-52029
English  in  Morocco,  and  he  came  to  love  and  respect 
the  people  of  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  He 
would carry that commitment throughout his life.
As a diplomat, he worked from Egypt to Syria, from 
Saudia Arabia to Libya. He was known for walking the 
streets of the cities where he worked, tasting the local 
food,  meeting  as  many  people  as  he  could,  speaking 
Arabic,  listening  with  a  broad  smile.  Chris  went  to 
Benghazi,  arriving  on  a  cargo  ship,  in  the  early  days 
of the Libyan revolution. As America’s representative, 
he helped the Libyan people as they coped with violent 
conf lict,  cared  for  the  wounded  and  crafted  a  vision 
for the future in which the rights of all Libyans would 
be  respected.  After  the  revolution,  he  supported  the 
birth of a new democracy as Libyans held elections and 
built new institutions and began to move forward after 
decades of dictatorship.
Chris Stevens loved his work. He took pride in the 
country he served, and he saw dignity in the people that 
he met.
Two weeks ago, he travelled to Benghazi to review 
plans to establish a new cultural center and modernize 
a  hospital.  That  is  when  America’s  compound  came 
under attack. Along with three of his colleagues, Chris 
was killed in the city that he had helped to save. He was 
52 years old.
I  tell  this  story  because  Chris  Stevens  embodied 
the  best  of  America.  Like  his  fellow  Foreign  Service 
officers, he built bridges across oceans and cultures and 
was  deeply  invested  in  the  international  cooperation 
that  the  United  Nations  represents.  He  acted  with 
humility, but he also stood up for a set of principles, a 
belief that individuals should be free to determine their 
own  destiny  and  live  with  liberty,  dignity,  justice  and 
opportunity.
The attacks on the American civilians in Benghazi 
were  attacks  on  America.  We  are  grateful  for  the 
assistance  we  received  from  the  Libyan  Government 
and from the Libyan people. There should be no doubt 
that  we  will  be  relentless  in  tracking  down  the  killers 
and  bringing  them  to  justice.  I  also  appreciate  that, 
in  recent  days,  the  leaders  of  other  countries  in  the 
region — including Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen — have 
taken steps to secure our diplomatic facilities and called 
for calm. So have religious authorities around the globe.
But it should be understood that the attacks of the 
last  two  weeks  are  not  simply  an  assault  on  America. 
A/67/PV.6
They are also an assault on the very ideals upon which 
the United Nations was founded — the notion that people 
can resolve their differences peacefully; that diplomacy 
can take the place of war, and that, in an interdependent 
world, all of us have a stake in working towards greater 
opportunity and security for our citizens.
If  we  are  serious  about  upholding  those  ideals,  it 
will  not  be  enough  to  put  more  guards  in  front  of  an 
Embassy or to put out statements of regret and wait for 
the outrage to pass. If we are serious about those ideals, 
we must speak honestly about the deeper causes of the 
crisis, because we face a choice between the forces that 
would drive us apart and the hopes we hold in common.
Today,  we  must  affirm  that  our  future  will  be 
determined  by  people  like  Chris  Stevens,  and  not  by 
his  killers.  Today,  we  must  declare  that  such  violence 
and intolerance has no place among our United Nations.
It  has  been  less  than  two  years  since  a  vendor  in 
Tunisia  set  himself  on  fire  to  protest  the  oppressive 
corruption  in  his  country  and  sparked  what  became 
known  as  the  Arab  Spring.  Since  then,  the  world  has 
been  captivated  by  the  transformation  that  has  taken 
place,  and  the  United  States  has  supported  the  forces 
of change. 
We  were  inspired  by  the  Tunisian  protests  that 
toppled  a  dictator,  because  we  recognized  our  own 
beliefs  in  the  aspirations  of  the  men  and  women  who 
took to the streets. 
We  supported  change  in  Egypt,  because  our 
support for democracy ultimately put us on the side of 
the people.
We welcomed a transition of leadership in Yemen, 
because the interests of the people were no longer being 
served by a corrupt status quo.
We intervened in Libya alongside a broad coalition 
and  with  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council,  because  we  had  the  ability  to  stop  the 
slaughter of innocents and because we believed that the 
aspirations  of  the  people  were  more  powerful  than  a 
tyrant.
And  as  we  meet  here,  we  again  declare  that  the 
regime  of  Bashar  Al-Assad  must  come  to  an  end,  so 
that  the  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people  can  stop  and  a 
new dawn can begin.
We have taken those positions because we believe 
that  freedom  and  self-determination  are  not  unique  to 
12-52029
11
A/67/PV.6
one  culture.  Those  values  are  not  simply  American 
values or Western values — they are universal values. 
And  even  as  there  will  be  huge  challenges  that  come 
with  a  transition  to  democracy,  I  am  convinced  that, 
ultimately, Government of the people, by the people and 
for the people is more likely to bring about the stability, 
prosperity and individual opportunity that serve as the 
basis for peace in our world.
So, let us remember that this is a season of progress. 
For the first time in decades, Tunisians, Egyptians and 
Libyans  voted  for  new  leaders  in  elections  that  were 
credible,  competitive  and  fair.  That  democratic  spirit 
has not been restricted to the Arab world. Over the past 
year,  we  have  seen  peaceful  transitions  of  power  in 
Malawi  and  Senegal  and  a  new  President  in  Somalia. 
In Burma, a President has freed political prisoners and 
opened  a  closed  society,  a  courageous  dissident  has 
been elected to Parliament, and people look forward to 
further  reform.  Around  the  globe,  people  are  making 
their voices heard, insisting on their innate dignity and 
the right to determine their future.
And yet the turmoil of recent weeks reminds us that 
the  path  to  democracy  does  not  end  with  the  casting 
of  a  ballot.  Nelson  Mandela  once  said,  “To  be  free  is 
not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way 
that respects and enhances the freedom of others”. True 
democracy demands that citizens cannot be thrown in 
jail  because  of  what  they  believe  and  that  businesses 
can be opened without paying a bribe. It depends on the 
freedom of citizens to speak their minds and assemble 
without  fear  and  on  the  rule  of  law  and  due  process, 
which guarantee the rights of all people.
In other words, true democracy — real freedom — is 
hard work. Those in power have to resist the temptation 
to  crack  down  on  dissidents.  In  hard  economic  times, 
countries  may  be  tempted  to  rally  the  people  around 
perceived  enemies  at  home  and  abroad,  rather  than 
focusing on the painstaking work of reform.
Moreover,  there  will  always  be  those  who  reject 
human progress — dictators who cling to power, corrupt 
interests that depend upon the status quo, and extremists 
who fan the f lames of hate and division. From Northern 
Ireland  to  South  Asia,  from  Africa  to  the  Americas, 
from the Balkans to the Pacific Rim, we have witnessed 
convulsions  that  can  accompany  transitions  to  a  new 
political  order.  At  times,  the  conf licts  arise  along  the 
fault  lines  of  race  or  tribe,  and  often  they  arise  from 
the  difficulties  of  reconciling  tradition  and  faith  with 
the diversity and interdependence of the modern world.
In every country, there are those who find different 
religious  beliefs  threatening;  in  every  culture,  those 
who love freedom for themselves must ask themselves 
how  much  they  are  willing  to  tolerate  freedom  for 
others.  That  is  what  we  saw  play  out  in  the  last  two 
weeks, as a crude and disgusting video sparked outrage 
throughout  the  Muslim  world.  Now,  I  have  made  it 
clear  that  the  United  States  Government  had  nothing 
to  do  with  that  video,  and  I  believe  its  message  must 
be  rejected  by  all  who  respect  our  common  humanity. 
It  is  an  insult  not  only  to  Muslims,  but  to  America  as 
well, for as the city outside these walls makes clear, we 
are  a  country  that  has  welcomed  people  of  every  race 
and every faith. We are home to Muslims, who worship 
across  our  country.  We  not  only  respect  the  freedom 
of religion, we have laws that protect individuals from 
being  harmed  because  of  how  they  look  or  what  they 
believe. We understand why people take offence at that 
video, because millions of our citizens are among those 
people.
I know there are some who ask why we do not just 
ban  such  a  video.  And  the  answer  is  enshrined  in  our 
laws; our Constitution protects the right to practice free 
speech. Here in the United States, countless publications 
provoke  offence.  Like  me,  the  majority  of  Americans 
are Christian, and yet we do not ban blasphemy against 
our  most  sacred  beliefs.  As  President  of  our  country 
and Commander-in-Chief of our military, I accept that 
people are going to call me awful things every day, and 
I will always defend their right to do so. 
Americans have fought and died around the globe 
to protect the right of all people to express their views, 
even views that we profoundly disagree with. We do not 
do  so  because  we  support  hateful  speech,  but  because 
our founders understood that without such protections, 
the capacity of individuals to express their own views 
and practise their own faith may be threatened. We do 
so because in a diverse society, efforts to restrict speech 
can quickly become a tool to silence critics and oppress 
minorities. We do so because, given the power of faith in 
our lives and the passion that religious differences can 
inf lame,  the  strongest  weapon  against  hateful  speech 
is  not  repression;  it  is  more  speech  —  the  voices  of 
tolerance that rally against bigotry and blasphemy, and 
lift up the values of understanding and mutual respect.
12 
12-52029
I  know  that  not  all  countries  in  this  body  share 
that  particular  understanding  of  the  protection  of  free 
speech.    We  recognize  that.  But  in  2012,  at  a  time 
when  anyone  with  a  cell  phone  can  spread  offensive 
views  around  the  world  with  the  click  of  a  button, the 
notion  that  we  can  control  the  f low  of  information  is 
obsolete. The question then is how do we respond? And 
on this we must agree: there is no speech that justifies 
mindless violence. There are no words that excuse the 
killing  of  innocents.  There  is  no  video  that  justifies 
an  attack  on  an  embassy.  There  is  no  slander  that 
provides  an  excuse  for  people  to  burn  a  restaurant  in 
Lebanon,  or  destroy  a  school  in  Tunis,  or  cause  death 
and destruction in Pakistan. In our modern world with 
modern  technologies,  for  us  to  respond  in  that  way  to 
hateful  speech  empowers  any  individual  who  engages 
in  such  speech  to  create  chaos  around  the  world.  We 
empower the worst of us if that is how we respond.
More broadly, the events of the past two weeks also 
speak  to  the  need  for  all  of  us  to  honestly  address  the 
tensions  between  the West  and  the  Arab  world,  which 
is  moving  towards  democracy.  Now,  let  me  be  clear: 
just as we cannot solve every problem in the world, the 
United  States  has  not  and  will  not  seek  to  dictate  the 
outcome  of  democratic  transitions  abroad.  We  do  not 
expect  other  nations  to  agree  with  us  on  every  issue, 
nor do we assume that the violence of the past weeks or 
the  hateful  speech  of  some  individuals  represents  the 
views  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Muslims,  any 
more  than  the  views  of  the  people  who  produced  that 
video represent those of Americans. 
However, I do believe that it is the obligation of all 
leaders in all countries to speak out forcefully against 
violence and extremism. It is time to marginalize those 
who, even when not directly resorting to violence, use 
hatred of America, or the West, or Israel, as the central 
organizing  principle  of  politics.  For  that  only  gives 
cover, and sometimes provides an excuse, for those who 
do resort to violence.
That  brand  of  politics,  one  that  pits  East  against 
West,  and  South  against  North,  Muslims  against 
Christians and Hindus and Jews, cannot deliver on the 
promise  of  freedom.  To  young  people,  it  offers  only 
false hope. Burning an American f lag does nothing to 
provide  a  child  with  an  education.  Smashing  apart  a 
restaurant  does  not  fill  an  empty  stomach.  Attacking 
an embassy will not create a single job. That brand of 
politics only makes it harder to achieve what we must 
do together, namely, to educate our children and create 
A/67/PV.6
the  opportunities  that  they  deserve;  protect  human 
rights and extend democracy’s promise.
It  should  be  understood  that  America  will  never 
retreat  from  the  world.  We  will  bring  to  justice  those 
who  harm  our  citizens  and  our  friends,  and  we  will 
stand  with  our  allies.  We  are  willing  to  partner  with 
countries  around  the  world  to  deepen  ties  of  trade 
and  investment,  science  and  technology,  energy  and 
development  —  all  efforts  that  can  spark  economic 
growth  for  all  our  peoples  and  stabilize  democratic 
change. 
But  such  efforts  depend  on  a  spirit  of  mutual 
interest  and  mutual  respect.  No  Government  or 
company, no school or non-governmental organization 
will be confident working in a country where its people 
are  endangered.  For  partnerships  to  be  effective, 
our  citizens  must  be  secure  and  our  efforts  must  be 
welcomed. A politics based only on anger — one based 
on  dividing  the  world  between  us  and  them  —  not 
only  sets  back  international  cooperation,  it  ultimately 
undermines  those  who  tolerate  it.  All  of  us  have  an 
interest in standing up to those forces.
Let  us  remember  that  Muslims  have  suffered  the 
most at the hands of extremism. On the same day that 
our civilians were killed in Benghazi, a Turkish police 
officer  was  murdered  in  Istanbul  only  days  before  his 
wedding;  more  than  10  Yemenis  were  killed  in  a  car 
bomb in Sana’a; several Afghan children were mourned 
by  their  parents  just  days  after  they  were  killed  by 
a  suicide  bomber  in  Kabul.  The  impulse  towards 
intolerance and violence may initially be focused on the 
West,  but  over  time  it  cannot  be  contained.  The  same 
impulses  towards  extremism  are  used  to  justify  war 
between  Sunni  and  Shia,  between  tribes  and  clans.  It 
leads not to strength and prosperity but to chaos. In less 
than two years, we have seen largely peaceful protests 
bring  more  change  to  Muslim-majority  countries  than 
a  decade  of  violence.  And  extremists  understand  this. 
Because they have nothing to offer to improve the lives 
of  people,  violence  is  their  only  way  to  stay  relevant. 
They do not build; they only destroy.
It is time to leave the call to violence and the politics 
of division behind. On so many issues, we face a choice 
between the promise of the future or the prisons of the 
past.  And  we  cannot  afford  to  get  it  wrong.  We  must 
seize this moment. And America stands ready to work 
with  all  who  are  willing  to  embrace  a  better  future. 
The future must not belong to those who target Coptic 
12-52029
13
A/67/PV.6
Christians  in  Egypt;  it  must  be  claimed  by  those  in 
Tahrir  Square  who  chanted,  “Muslims,  Christians,  we 
are one.” The future must not belong to those who bully 
women;  it  must  be  shaped  by  girls  who  go  to  school, 
and  those  who  stand  for  a  world  where  our  daughters 
can live their dreams just like our sons.
The  future  must  not  belong  to  those  corrupt  few 
who steal a country’s resources; it must be won by the 
students  and  entrepreneurs,  the  workers  and  business 
owners  who  seek  a  broader  prosperity  for  all  people. 
Those  are  the  women  and  men  that  America  stands 
with; theirs is the vision we will support.
The  future  must  not  belong  to  those  who  slander 
the  Prophet  of  Islam.  But  to  be  credible,  those  who 
condemn  that  slander  must  also  condemn  the  hate  we 
see  in  the  images  of  Jesus  Christ  that  are  desecrated, 
or churches that are destroyed, or the Holocaust that is 
denied.
Let  us  condemn  incitement  against  Sufi  Muslims 
and  Shia  pilgrims.  It  is  time  to  heed  the  words  of 
Gandhi:  “Intolerance  is  itself  a  form  of  violence  and 
an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit”. 
Together we must work towards a world where we are 
strengthened  by  our  differences,  not  defined  by  them. 
That is what America embodies; that is the vision that 
we will support.
Among  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  the  future  must 
not belong to those who turn their backs on the prospect 
of  peace.  Let  us  leave  behind  those  who  thrive  on 
conf lict,  those  who  reject  the  right  of  Israel  to  exist. 
The road is hard, but the destination is clear: a secure, 
Jewish  State  of  Israel  and  an  independent,  prosperous 
Palestine. Understanding that such a peace must come 
through a just agreement between the parties, America 
will walk alongside all who are prepared to make that 
journey.
In  Syria,  the  future  must  not  belong  to  a  dictator 
who massacres his people. If there is a cause that cries 
out  for  protest  in  the  world  today,  peaceful  protest,  it 
is  a  regime  that  tortures  children  and  shoots  rockets 
at  apartment  buildings.  We  must  remain  engaged  to 
ensure  that  what  began  with  citizens  demanding  their 
rights does not end in a cycle of sectarian violence.
Together,  we  must  stand  with  those  Syrians  who 
believe in a different vision: a Syria that is united and 
inclusive, where children do not need to fear their own 
Government and all Syrians have a say in how they are 
governed, Sunnis and Alawites, Kurds and Christians. 
That  is  what  America  stands  for.  That  is  the  outcome 
that we will work for, with sanctions and consequences 
for  those  who  persecute,  and  assistance  and  support 
for those who work for this common good, because we 
believe  that  the  Syrians  who  embrace  this  vision  will 
have the strength and the legitimacy to lead.
In  Iran,  we  see  where  the  path  of  a  violent  and 
unaccountable  ideology  leads.  The  Iranian  people 
have  a  remarkable  and  ancient  history,  and  many 
Iranians  wish  to  enjoy  peace  and  prosperity  alongside 
their  neighbours.  But  just  as  it  restricts  the  rights  of 
its  own  people,  the  Iranian  Government  continues  to 
prop  up  a  dictator  in  Damascus  and  supports  terrorist 
groups abroad. Time and again, it has failed to take the 
opportunity to demonstrate that its nuclear programme 
is  peaceful  and  to  meet  its  obligations  to  the  United 
Nations.
So  let  me  be  clear.  America  wants  to  resolve  this 
issue  through  diplomacy,  and  we  believe  that  there 
is  still  time  and  space  to  do  so.  But  that  time  is  not 
unlimited.  We  respect  the  right  of  nations  to  access 
peaceful nuclear power, but one of the purposes of the 
United Nations is to see that we harness that power for 
peace. Make no mistake: a nuclear-armed Iran is not a 
challenge  that  can  be  contained.  It  would  threaten  the 
elimination  of  Israel,  the  security  of  Gulf  nations  and 
the  stability  of  the  global  economy.  It  risks  triggering 
a  nuclear-arms  race  in  the  region  and  the  unravelling 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons. That is why a coalition of countries is holding 
the  Iranian  Government  accountable,  and  that  is  why 
the United States will do what we must to prevent Iran 
from obtaining a nuclear weapon.
We  know  from  painful  experience  that  the  path 
to  security  and  prosperity  does  not  lie  outside  the 
boundaries of international law and respect for human 
rights. That is why this institution was established, from 
the  rubble  of  conf lict.  That  is  why  liberty  triumphed 
over  tyranny  in  the  cold  war,  and  that  is  the  lesson  of 
the last two decades as well.
History  shows  that  peace  and  progress  come  to 
those who make the right choices. Nations in every part 
of the world have travelled this difficult path. Europe, 
the  bloodiest  battlefield  of  the  twentieth  century,  is 
united, free and at peace. From Brazil to South Africa, 
from  Turkey  to  South  Korea,  from  India  to  Indonesia, 
people of different races, religions and traditions have 
14 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
lifted  millions  out  of  poverty,  while  respecting  the 
rights of their citizens and meeting their responsibilities 
as nations.
It is because of the progress that I have witnessed 
in my own lifetime, the progress that I have witnessed 
after nearly four years as President, that I remain ever 
hopeful  about  the  world  that  we  live  in.  The  war  in 
Iraq  is  over.  American  troops  have  come  home.  We 
have  begun  a  transition  in  Afghanistan,  and  America 
and  our  allies  will  end  our  war  on  schedule  in  2014. 
Al-Qaida  has  been  weakened,  and  Osama  bin  Laden 
is  no  more.  Nations  have  come  together  to  lock  down 
nuclear materials, and America and Russia are reducing 
our  arsenals.  We  have  seen  hard  choices  made,  from 
Naypyidaw  to  Cairo  to  Abidjan,  to  put  more  power  in 
the hands of citizens.
At  a  time  of  economic  challenge,  the  world 
has  come  together  to  broaden  prosperity.  Through 
the  Group  of  20,  we  have  partnered  with  emerging 
countries  to  keep  the  world  on  the  path  of  recovery. 
America  has  pursued  a  development  agenda  that  fuels 
growth  and  breaks  dependency,  and  has  worked  with 
African  leaders  to  help  them  feed  their  nations.  New 
partnerships have been forged to combat corruption and 
promote government that is open and transparent, and 
new  commitments  have  been  made  through  the  Equal 
Futures Partnership to ensure that women and girls can 
fully  participate  in  politics  and  pursue  opportunity. 
Later  today,  I  will  discuss  our  efforts  to  combat  the 
scourge of human trafficking.
All  those  things  give  me  hope.  But  what  gives 
me  the  most  hope  is  not  the  actions  taken  by  us,  not 
the  actions  of  leaders;  it  is  the  people  that  I  have 
seen — the American troops who have risked their lives 
and  sacrificed  their  limbs  for  strangers  half  a  world 
away,  the  students  in  Jakarta  or  Seoul  who  are  eager 
to use their knowledge to benefit mankind, the faces in 
a  square  in  Prague  or  a  parliament  in  Ghana  who  see 
democracy giving voice to their aspirations, the young 
people in the favelas of Rio and the schools of Mumbai 
whose  eyes  shine  with  promise.  Those  men,  women, 
and  children  of  every  race  and  every  faith  remind  me 
that for every angry mob that gets shown on television, 
there  are  billions  around  the  world  who  share  similar 
hopes and dreams. They tell us that there is a common 
heartbeat to humanity.
So  much  attention  in  our  world  turns  to  what 
divides  us.  That  is  what  we  see  on  the  news.  That  is 
what consumes our political debates. But when you strip 
it all away, people everywhere long for the freedom to 
determine  their  destiny;  the  dignity  that  comes  with 
work; the comfort that comes with faith; and the justice 
that  exists  when  Governments  serve  their  people  and 
not the other way around.
The United States of America will always stand up 
for these aspirations, for our own people and for people 
all  across  the  world.  That  was  our  founding  purpose. 
That  is  what  our  history  shows.  That  is  what  Chris 
Stevens worked for throughout his life.
I promise you this: long after the killers are brought 
to justice, Chris Stevens’s legacy will live on in the lives 
that he touched, in the tens of thousands who marched 
against violence through the streets of Benghazi; in the 
Libyans  who  changed  their  Facebook  photo  to  one  of 
Chris; in the signs that read simply, “Chris Stevens was 
a friend to all Libyans”. They should give us hope. They 
should remind us that so long as we work for it justice 
will be done, that history is on our side and that a rising 
tide of liberty will never be reversed.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Serbia.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the 
Republic  of  Serbia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Nikolić  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  Your  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  Sir,  is 
a  great  honour  for  Serbia.  In  congratulating  you  on 
the  appointment  to  that  post,  I  express  my  belief  that 
you  will  discharge  such  responsible  duties  with  full 
12-52029
15
A/67/PV.6
commitment  to  respect  for  the  values  and  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am 
sure  that  you,  Mr.  President,  will  rise  to  the  tasks 
entrusted  to  you  by  all  Member  States  that  supported 
your appointment.
The  Republic  of  Serbia  pays  particular  attention 
to  strengthening  cooperation  within  the  framework  of 
the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations, 
which  unites  us,  its  purposes  and  principles  and  the 
international system based on it are the only foundation 
for  the  development  of  international  relations,  the 
promotion of human rights and the maintenance of peace 
and security. Those purposes cannot become obsolete. 
They must always remain current, and therefore require 
that we be resolute in our goal to join forces and efforts 
in  order  to  ensure  a  brighter  and  safer  future  for  all 
humanity.
The world in which we live and the changes brought 
about  by  development  in  many  areas  on  a  daily  basis 
make  it  incumbent  upon  us  to  change  together  and  to 
face the numerous challenges that none of us can deal 
with  individually.  For  that  reason,  we  must  always 
bear  in  mind  the  responsibilities  vested  in  us  as  the 
representatives  of  our  countries  and  the  consequences 
of the decisions that we take.
The challenges facing the world have been further 
exacerbated  by  the  continuing  global  crisis  having 
longer  lasting  consequences  than  expected.  Today, 
more  than  ever  before,  we  need  cooperation  and 
understanding  in  order  to  overcome  problems  and  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
We have no choice but to get to grips with problems 
and end the recession, which can be measured against 
the crisis of the 1930s, and to hope that it will not last 
longer  than  that  calamity.  The  crisis,  from  banking 
to  the  balance  of  payments,  mortgages  and  debts,  is 
affecting all countries without exception. However, by 
far the greatest burden is borne by the most vulnerable: 
poor countries and countries in transition that have not 
even caused it. 
We are faced with a serious threat to international 
integration and to the further definition of national and 
supranational  policies.  The  problem  is  not  insoluble. 
The solution lies in greater responsibility, coordinated 
international  activities  and  the  appropriate  correlation 
between  the  actions  of  countries  and  their  national 
interests.
The  growing  poverty  in  many  countries  and 
the  widening  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  are 
becoming  increasingly  alarming  and  an  unwarranted 
and  unacceptable  trait  of  the  great  scientific  and 
technological  progress  of  the  modern  world.  In  many 
cases,  we  see  sanctions  and  isolation  exacerbating  the 
problem. 
is  one  of 
Poverty  reduction 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
point  out  the  importance  of  support  for  and  solidarity 
with underdeveloped and developing countries. We need 
solidarity. Be mindful that today, poverty and starvation 
are  not  only  a  characteristic  of  underdeveloped 
countries.  The  continuing  global  economic  crisis  has 
also  highlighted  the  issues  of  poverty  and  a  lack  of 
food and drinking water in some developed and, until 
recently,  wealthy  countries.  Those  phenomena  are,  at 
the  same  time,  a  real  source  of  serious  security  risks. 
Consequently,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  the 
rich  and  powerful  countries  drawing  special  benefit 
from  globalization  to  direct  a  part  of  their  wealth 
towards  the  economic  and  social  development  of 
underdeveloped countries.
A  more  equitable  distribution  of  assets,  solidarity 
and support to underdeveloped and developing countries 
should be jointly agreed upon along, with systematically 
planned and organized solutions. Such measures would 
foster  implementation  of  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  real  world  of 
today. An economy based on renewable energy sources, 
energy  efficiency,  responsible  utilization  of  resources 
and socially responsible commerce would significantly 
contribute  to  reducing  poverty  and  starvation  in  the 
world.
I underline our political commitment to the idea of 
sustainable development and welcome the initiative of 
the Secretary-General of the United Nations regarding 
renewable  energy  sources  for  all.  I  hope  that  it,  along 
with  other  provisions  of  the  Declaration  adopted  at 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and 
Development, will be among the agenda items to which 
the  General  Assembly  will  pay  special  attention  at  its 
sixty-seventh session. 
I consider it our joint obligation to preserve planet 
Earth  in  a  way  that  it  deserves.  The  idea  of  a  better 
world involves this planet that we will preserve for the 
next  generation.  We  should  understand  that  the  Earth 
should  be  treated  like  a  living  organism,  and  we  can 
16 
12-52029
only  hope  for  the  better  if  we  look  after  it  on  a  daily 
basis.
Within  the  limits  of  its  possibilities,  Serbia  will 
contribute to research into renewable sources of energy, 
devoting  special  attention  to  the  education  of  younger 
generations  on  ways  of  achieving  harmony  among 
efforts in planet conservation, development and profit.
Climate  change  is  one  of  the  problems  affecting 
us  today  that  we  were  not  sufficiently  aware  of  in  the 
past.  In  the  opinion  of  many,  climate  change  is  the 
direct  consequence  of  irresponsible  behaviour  on  the 
part  of  mankind  towards  nature  and  the  immediate 
environment. 
I wish to stress our principled position that it is the 
collective  obligation  of  all  of  us  to  fight  the  negative 
impact of climate change through cooperation, tireless 
research, the sharing of knowledge and experience and 
by defining and strictly applying measures designed to 
respond  to  the  new  climatic  conditions.  The  survival 
and progress of mankind are the eternal ideals of each 
human community, while sustainable development is a 
necessary precondition to achieving those ideals.
Poverty,  famine  and  limited  access  to  clean  water 
pose grave threats to human health. Anything is possible 
for a healthy man, although he may have many problems; 
however  a  sick  man  has  only  one  problem  —  how  to 
get  healthy.  Therefore,  I  would  like  to  particularly 
emphasize  the  importance  of  quality  medical  care  for 
children  and  women,  in  particular  mothers,  as  well as 
the  importance  of  the  continuing  struggle  against  all 
communicable and non-communicable diseases.
When  it  comes  to  the  progress  of  humanity,  the 
importance of education must not be ignored. I believe 
that investing in education is the best way to invest in 
future development. Furthermore, access to knowledge 
and education should not be the privilege of the chosen, 
but the standard available to all. Only when a computer 
and  book  replace  a  gun  in  the  hands  of  young  people 
will happier pages of human history be written.
For several decades, my country has spared no effort 
in contributing, within its capabilities, to multinational 
operations mandated by the United Nations. Thousands 
of Serbian soldiers have been deployed in missions to all 
continents.  Even  today,  under  new  national  legislation 
in  line  with  modern  defence  and  security  strategies, 
members of the Serbian Army and the Serbian police are 
taking part in the international effort to keep the peace 
A/67/PV.6
from  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Liberia 
and  Côte  d’Ivoire,  to  Lebanon,  Cyprus  and  Haiti.  Our 
active  participation  in  the  coming  period  will  be  even 
greater and more visible. 
Despite  the  great  efforts  made  by  nearly  all 
countries,  terrorism  continues  to  pose  a  threat  to 
international  stability.  That  phenomenon  is  not  only 
characterized by sporadic attacks, but today represents 
a  danger  to  the  core  values  of  the  United  Nations  and 
a threat to international peace, security and the rule of 
law.  
Terrorism is an attack against fundamental human 
rights,  including  the  right  to  life  and  individual  civil, 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  In 
addition, it undermines the development of countries in 
every sense of the word. Given the fact that all countries 
are  vulnerable  to  various  manifestations  of  terrorism, 
only by joining forces will we be able to fight that evil.
its 
legislation 
Serbia  has  aligned 
regulating 
its  security  sector  with  the  relevant  international 
instruments. Through regional cooperation, my country 
strives  to  contribute  to  global  and  regional  efforts 
aimed  at  countering  terrorism.  In  that  context,  it  is  of 
vital importance to make progress on the adoption of a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
At  the  same  time,  Serbia  has  undertaken  various 
activities  to  suppress  organized  crime,  which  is  often 
linked with terrorism, as well as to fight trafficking in 
narcotic drugs, human beings and arms.
Encouraging dialogue among various cultures and 
faiths  is  increasingly  important  in  today’s  world.  The 
Republic of Serbia is a country of religious people, who 
worship  God  in  Christian  churches  and  cathedrals  or 
in mosques and synagogues. I can proudly say that my 
country is a place where various cultures and religions 
have intermingled, and spiritual and material heritages 
have  incorporated  traditions  and  elements  derived 
from various completely different religious and ethnic 
affiliations,  which  have  continued  to  intermix  and 
whose wealth will be passed on to future generations.
No  one  should  suffer  or  be  humiliated  because 
of  their  religion.  Religious  feelings  are  sacrosanct 
and  safeguarded  as  fundamental  human  rights.  No 
life  should  be  lost  in  religiously  motivated  clashes. 
Irresponsible  individuals  ridicule  relics  that  others 
worship,  yet  certain  people  who  have  been  hurt  have 
reacted  inappropriately.  That  is  why  we  strongly 
condemn  attacks  on  innocent  people,  who  should  be 
12-52029
17
A/67/PV.6
especially  protected.  On  behalf  of  the  Serbian  people, 
I  offer  our  sympathies  to  the  United  States  over  the 
killing of the United States Ambassador to Libya.
Serbia plays an active role in regional organizations, 
including the Organization of the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation.  That  regional  cooperation  mechanism  is 
based  on  the  principles  of  understanding  and  mutual 
respect  aimed  at  achieving  common  goals.  Serbia 
has  successfully  presided  over  regional  initiatives, 
including the Organization of the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation,  the  Central  European  Initiative,  the 
Migration,  Asylum,  Refugees  Regional  Initiative,  the 
South-East  European  Cooperation  Process  and  the 
Adriatic and Ionian Initiative.
Serbia  truly  wishes  to  become  a  full-f ledged 
member  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  is  patiently 
building relations of confidence and peace in a region 
that  is  burdened  with  the  heavy  legacy  of  the  past. 
Serbia wishes to head for a better and more prosperous 
future, on an equal footing with all nations of the world. 
Much  has  been  achieved  so  far  in  the  implementation 
of reforms, the fight against crime and corruption and 
the harmonization of its laws with the regulations of the 
European Union. 
In that sense, Serbia has performed even better than 
some countries that have already become EU members. 
Unfortunately,  despite  its  strong  commitment  to  strict 
compliance with international law and all fundamental 
instruments regarding the work of the United Nations, 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  is  now  faced  with  a  violation 
of  certain  fundamental  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations in a part of its territory. 
On  17  February  2008,  the  authorities  of  the  self-
proclaimed  Republic  of  Kosovo  unilaterally  declared 
the  independence  of  the  territory  of  Serbia’s  southern 
province.  I  am  not  a  prophet,  but  I  must  say  that  the 
unilateral declaration of independence by the province 
of  Kosovo  constitutes  a  dangerous  precedent  and  a 
long-standing threat to the stability of the region of the 
Western Balkans and beyond.
That  unilateral  act  also  violated  the  bedrock 
principles  of  the  Helsinki  Final  Act  and  Security 
Council resolution 1244 (1999). I wish to emphasize that 
the  majority  of  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations 
have  refrained  from  recognizing 
the  unilaterally 
declared  independence  of  Kosovo,  thus  remaining 
true  to  the  obligation  to  respect  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which is 
an obligation derived from the Charter.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude 
to  those  countries  for  their  support  and  solidarity,  as 
well as my hope that, in spite of any pressure and with 
a  view  to  maintaining  peace  and  stability,  they  will 
not  recognize  any  solution  that  is  not  the  outcome  of 
negotiations  and  a  clearly  defined  agreement  between 
the Serb and the Albanian parties.
Serbia is a peace-loving country that is open to the 
east, west, north and south and has friends all over the 
world. It stands ready to discuss all outstanding issues 
with all parties and will do its utmost to ensure that all 
its citizens live well, including in Kosovo and Metohija. 
According to our Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija is 
an  integral  part  of  Serbia,  and  the  territorial  integrity 
and  the  sovereignty  of  United  Nations  Members  form 
the cornerstones of key international documents. Serbia 
is a sovereign and independent State and a Member of 
the  United  Nations,  with  defined  and  internationally 
recognized  borders  and  a  part  of  its  territory  is  under 
the administration of the family to which it belongs, the 
United Nations.
As  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  Serbia  is  a 
victim  of  the  application  of  double  standards.  The 
principle of respect for territorial integrity implies the 
non-acceptance of bids for secession and the prevention 
of  efforts  to  change  the  internationally  recognized 
borders  of  other  States.  For  the  country  I  represent, 
peace  and  respect  for  international  law  come  before 
all  other  interests  and  objectives.  Political  and  armed 
violence are not nor will ever be acceptable means for 
achieving  State  interests  in  international  affairs.  Our 
battle against the unilaterally declared independence of 
Kosovo and Metohija is part of the general struggle to 
preserve the principle of respect tor territorial integrity. 
Today, the struggle for the territorial integrity of Serbia 
is  also  the  struggle  for  peace  in  all  countries  of  the 
world and for the rule of law in international relations.
Serbia is proud of having excellent and substantive 
relations with most countries and it is proud of its own 
history. As is true in all nations, some individual Serbians 
have  made  mistakes  and  even  committed  crimes.  We 
have  turned  over  those  of  our  own  citizens  suspected 
of  having  breached  international  law  to  international 
justice.  For  that  reason,  we  rightfully  expect  justice 
for our country and its people, who were on the side of 
law  and  justice  in  both  World  Wars.  We  paid  a  heavy 
18 
12-52029
price fighting fascist and totalitarian ideologies, losing 
almost half of our population, and we fought shoulder 
to shoulder with the Allies, along with whom we then 
founded  this  Organization.  A  community  is  based  on 
justice,  which  implies  reconciliation  and  trust.  How 
is  it  possible  that  the  rules  of  international  law  and 
justice have been violated to such an extent that, in the 
case  of  Serbs  in  Serbia,  one  can  reasonably  speak  of 
discrimination?
American  President  Dwight  Eisenhower  said,  in  a 
speech delivered on 31 October 1956, 
“There can be no peace without law and there can be 
no law if we were to apply one code of international 
conduct to those who oppose us and another for our 
friends.”
Is it possible to have negotiations in which one party gets 
everything,  including  territory  and  even  many  of  the 
other party’s people, and the other party gets nothing in 
return, except further pressure and new conditions? We 
are  more  and  more  frequently  forced  by  the  powerful 
and mighty to face the tough choice between giving up 
Kosovo and Metohija and membership in the European 
Union. What kind of a choice is that? Am I to tell our 
citizens that they are going to live better if they abandon 
their  own  interests?  Has  Serbia  ever  asked  anyone  to 
make  such  a  decision?  I  hope  that  no  one  in  this  Hall 
will ever have to face such a choice.
Serbia 
is  seeking  a 
lasting,  sustainable  and 
acceptable  solution  to  all  problems.  It  aspires  to 
make progress towards a European future and is fully 
committed to a process that will result in enduring peace 
between  Serbs  and  Albanians.  The  Republic  of  Serbia 
and myself, as its democratically elected President, are 
ready  to  participate  constructively  in  the  negotiating 
process,  because  Serbia  cannot  move  forward  without 
Kosovo  and  Metohija,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Kosovo 
and Metohija cannot move forward without Serbia. We 
strongly desire that the talks be continued in good faith 
and  with  good  intentions,  taking  into  account,  among 
other  things,  that  it  is  important  to  carry  forward 
European integration involving Serbia and the Western 
Balkans  as  a  whole  in  order  to  ensure  long-term 
progress and stability for the entire region.
Serbia  has  made  committments  and  will  fulfil 
all  obligations  it  has  undertaken  as  a  State  in  the 
agreements  reached  thus  far,  even  though  to  my 
eye  they  represent  essentially  the  wish  list  of  the 
Albanian  party  with  some  concessions  made  by  our 
A/67/PV.6
leadership  at  that  time  under  heavy  pressure.  At  the 
same  time,  it  should  be  understood  that  Serbia  is  not 
ready to recognize, and cannot nor will ever under any 
circumstances recognize, either explicitly or implicitly, 
the  unilaterally  declared  independence  of  its  southern 
province of Kosovo and Metohija. The issue of Kosovo 
and  Metohija  can  be  resolved  and  will  be  resolved  in 
a  peaceful  manner.  Serbia  will  enter  the  follow-up 
negotiations  ready  to  help  all  citizens  of  Kosovo  and 
Metohija to live a better life in democratic and secure 
conditions, but it will not negotiate the implementation 
of the independence of the so-called State of Kosovo. 
The  situation  will  come  to  an  end,  even  though 
we  constantly  hear  that  the  status  of  Kosovo  is 
non-negotiable  and  that  it  is  not  up  to  us  to  decide  it. 
I wonder, then, what the subject matter of negotiations 
could be and what entity has any authority to determine 
it? Serbia offers a concrete proposal: direct negotiations 
at  the  highest  political  level.  An  agreement  can  be 
reached  only  through  consensus  without  unilateral 
decisions and actions.
I  take  this  opportunity  also  to  condemn  most 
strongly  the  attempt  by  the  so-called  Republic  of 
Kosovo to dispossess Serbs of the tangible heritage of 
the Serbian medieval State, the spiritual heritage of the 
Serbian people and the property of the Serbian Orthodox 
Church in the territory of the southern Serbian province 
of Kosovo. I can only understand the attempt to turn four 
monasteries of the Serbian Orthodox Church into a part 
of  the  cultural  heritage  of  the  so-called  Kosovo  State 
as  an  effort  f lagrantly  to  falsify  history,  as  historical 
revisionism  and  as  an  attempt  to  obliterate  any  trace 
of  the  existence  of  the  Serbian  people  in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija.
I  am  particularly  concerned  over  the  fact  that, 
even  now  in  the  twenty-first  century,  such  an  attempt 
to falsify history and to steal the cultural heritage of a 
nation is taking place before the very eyes of the entire 
international  community.  That  sets  a  very  dangerous 
precedent,  encouraging  each  and  every  secessionist 
group  in  the  future  to  take  over  the  history  of  the 
expelled  people  after  illegally  separating  the  territory 
from  the  State  in  question.  In  the  case  of  Kosovo, 
220,000 people were driven out of their homes.
Serbia  urges  an  investigation  into  the  allegations 
contained  in  the  report  by  Mr.  Dick  Marty,  Special 
Rapporteur  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 
Council of Europe. Some people ought to have a guilty 
12-52029
19
A/67/PV.6
conscious  because  of  the  fact  that  two  years  have 
elapsed since the publication of the report cataloguing 
cases  of  harvesting  and  trafficking  in  human  organs 
before,  during  and  after  the  events  of  1999.  We  are 
simply  asking  for  the  truth.  We  seek  to  uncover  the 
destiny of hundreds of Serbs missing from Kosovo and 
Metohija, who are reasonably believed to be the victims 
of  illicit  trafficking  in  human  organs  and  of  other 
crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija. In the name 
of my people, I simply demand justice for the innocent 
victims. For the sake of the truth an investigation should 
be carried out, bearing in mind that Serbs were always 
unjustly  portrayed  as  the  sole  perpetrators  of  crimes, 
and never as victims,
Serbia is merely asking for the same obligations and 
rights for itself as for others, for the same appreciation 
of  its  interests  as  for  those  of  others  and  for  the  same 
kind  of  attention  to  itself  as  to  others,  so  as  not  to 
become unworthy of its ancestors and so as not to fail 
in its debt to its born and unborn children.
I conclude by affirming that the Republic of Serbia 
will  make  a  self less  contribution  to  achieving  the 
objectives  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  Member 
States.  I  am  convinced  that  the  accomplishment  of 
those objectives is only possible through respect for the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and  through  an  active  involvement  of  all  Members  in 
the promotion of multilateral cooperation.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the 
Republic of Benin
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Benin.
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of 
Benin, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Yayi (spoke in French): On behalf of the 
African continent and as Chair of the African Union, I 
would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  and  at  the  same  time 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  his  leadership 
role for the peace and prosperity of our people. 
In our world, shaken by so many multifaceted crises, 
the Assembly’s general debate offers us the opportunity 
to  transcend  our  national  interests  to  contemplate 
together  the  ways  and  means  to  ensure  international 
peace  and  security  and  to  improve  global  governance 
for  healthy  economic  growth,  which  is  the  guarantor 
of  sustainable  human  development.  In  that  regard,  I 
welcome  the  relevance  of  the  theme  of  this  session, 
on the settlement of international disputes by peaceful 
means. It is a logical follow-up to that of the previous 
session, which focused on mediation in the settlement of 
disputes,  and  amply  demonstrates  the  importance  that 
the  United  Nations  accords  to  international  peace  and 
security, the foundation of a better world characterized 
by  stability,  equity,  solidarity  among  nations,  justice, 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and international cooperation. 
With  regard  to  the  conf licts  and  other  wars  that 
shake  our  world,  the  African  continent  faces  many 
challenges which it cannot straighten out by itself. We 
hope  that  the  General  Assembly’s  attention,  focused 
since  its  previous  session  on  the  thorny  question  of 
conf licts  and  how  to  settle  them  peacefully,  will  help 
Africa  to  find  appropriate  solutions  so  that  it  can 
dedicate  its  resources  and  energies  to  the  sustainable 
development  of  its  States  and  to  the  well-being  of  its 
populations. 
The  major  constraints  on  Africa’s  economic 
development and social progress are at once sundry and 
variable. They include, inter alia, the illicit and massive 
circulation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which 
feeds  chronic  insecurity  and  transnational  organized 
crime in States and regions of the continent heretofore 
havens of peace and prosperity. There is an upsurge in 
terrorist acts in the Sahelo-Saharan area and activities 
related  to  transnational  crime,  such  as  abductions 
and  illegal  trafficking  of  all  kinds,  in  particular  of 
humans,  and  trafficking    in  narcotics  and  counterfeit 
medications. Piracy and armed robbery at sea confront 
the States of the Gulf of Guinea and the Horn of Africa. 
We see ongoing unemployment and underemployment, 
lack of food in some regions and chronic malnutrition 
20 
12-52029
in  many  countries.  Soil  degradation  and  erosion 
increase,  and  natural  disasters,  the  consequences  of 
climate  upheavals  and  change  recur.  Poor  governance 
in 
international  economic  relations  engenders  an 
economic and financial crisis. 
In  spite  of  the  difficulties  and  shortfalls  noted  in 
their  operation,  the  different  elections  that  have  taken 
place  in  many  African  States  in  2011  and  2012  show 
the  determination  of  the  African  peoples  and  their 
adherence to the process of implanting democracy and 
the rule of law in our dear continent. 
I take this opportunity to focus particularly on the 
efforts underway in the Economic Community of West 
African  States  (ECOWAS),  supported  by  the  African 
Union, to deal with the grave security and institutional 
crises  that  have  taken  place  in  particular  in  Mali  and 
Guinea-Bissau. 
In  Mali  a  very  disturbing  situation  is  developing 
which has to do with the occupation of the north of the 
country  by  terrorist  cells  that  threaten  to  destabilize 
the  entire  West  African  subregion  and  could  threaten 
security  on  the  continent  and  throughout  the  world. 
The  terrorist  cells  share  the  same  intolerance  that  is 
destabilizing the democratic Government of the Federal 
Republic  of  Nigeria.  The  international  community 
has  a  duty  to  act  decisively  against  that  terrorist  and 
fundamentalist threat and ensure that human rights are 
respected.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  from  this  rostrum 
my pressing appeal for the international community to 
commit  itself,  along  with  ECOWAS  and  the  African 
Union,  to  eliminate  that  serious  threat  to  peace  and 
security  in  the  subregion  and  to  prevent  large-scale 
humanitarian disasters. 
I am not forgetting the situation in Guinea-Bissau, 
which continues to hold the attention of ECOWAS and 
of the African Union in spite of progress made through 
mediation between the different the parties concerned, 
including ECOWAS, the African Union, the Community 
of Portuguese-speaking Countries, the United Nations 
and  the  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners.  I  hope  that 
the  initiatives  will  continue  to  help  to  bring  about  a 
coordinated approach to the crisis in order to reach an 
international and national consensus on the situation in 
that country.
I  welcome  the  different  efforts  by  the  African 
Union  and  the  international  community  in  pursuit 
of  peace  with  regard  to  the  various  other  hotbeds  of 
tension  on  the  continent,  namely,  in  the  Democratic 
A/67/PV.6
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Somalia,  the  Sudan,  South 
Sudan, Madagascar, et cetera. We must strengthen the 
strategic  partnership  established  between  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  and  the  Peace  and  Security 
Council  of  the  African  Union  with  regard  to  conf lict 
prevention,  mediation,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding 
and  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and  humanitarian 
law for the certain benefit of our people. We must also 
think  more  deeply  on  ways  to  ensure  predictable  and 
sustainable financing for African Union peacekeeping 
operations, including the African Standby Force. 
As shown by the crises that are shaking our planet, 
the system of global governance that has prevailed up to 
now is suffering from serious disfunctions. It is therefore 
high  time  to  accelerate  the  process  of  reforming  the 
international system in order to democratize the mode 
of  operation  of  its  institutions  and  mechanisms  that 
regulate and promote cooperation among States. 
Since  the  2005  World  Summit,  various  measures 
having  to  do  with  rationalizing  the  United  Nations 
system have been taken and have resulted in particular 
in  the  establishment  of  new  bodies  that  have  proven 
very  useful.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission,  created 
to  break  the  cycle  of  violence  in  countries  emerging 
from conf lict, has contributed to their stabilization by 
providing  them  targeted  support  to  confront  troubling 
situations.  Similarly,  the  Human  Rights  Council  is 
contributing  to  improving  global  governance  with 
regard to the protection and promotion of human rights, 
humanitarian law and fundamental freedoms. 
In  the  same  spirit,  negotiations  to  reform  the 
Security Council must be intensified to achieve in the 
near  term  the  establishment  of  an  inclusive  Council, 
one  that  would  repair  the  historical  injustice  done  to 
Africa with respect to its presence in that organ, which 
heads the collective security system established by the 
Charter of the United Nations. 
Completing  Security  Council  reform  would,  I  am 
sure, result in more serenity in the handling of the world’s 
current major problems in the area of international peace 
and  security.  It  would  confer  greater  legitimacy  upon 
the  actions  of  our  common  Organization  and  would 
allow it to renew its original vocation as an instrument 
of  conf lict  prevention  and  resolution.  It  would  also 
allow  it  to  shed  the  inconsistencies  that  limit  it  to  the 
incongruous  role  of  an  observer  of  carnage  taking 
place before its very eyes. Those laudable reforms must 
be  complemented  by  a  system  offering  the  youth  and 
12-52029
21
A/67/PV.6
women an opportunity to get more involved in the life 
of the United Nations.
Peace in the world is possible. We cannot ignore the 
situation in the Middle East. Today the United Nations 
has the means to find a fair and sustainable solution to 
the  Palestinian  problem,  and  under  no  pretext  should 
it  shirk  its  duty  and  historical  responsibility.  We  are 
talking  about  security,  stability  and  peace,  not  only 
in  the  Middle  East,  but  for  the  entire  world.  Africa  is 
fully in favour of the “one land, two States” solution to 
restore lasting peace in the Middle East, because in the 
end the two peoples — Palestinians and Israelis — must 
be able to live in love, friendship, peace and prosperity. 
As  the  Assembly  knows,  the  world  economy  still 
suffers  from  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  that 
was unleashed in 2008. In spite of the macroeconomic 
policies established by both developed and developing 
countries,  with  the  support  of  the  national  and 
international  financial 
the  economic 
slowdown  that  began  in  2008  has  persisted,  with  the 
corollary  of  weak  and  fragile  economic  growth  and 
more  than  75  million  unemployed  people  throughout 
the  world,  with  very  high  unemployment  rates  in  the 
developing countries. 
institutions, 
The  prices  of  raw  materials,  which  are  the  major 
source  of  export  earnings  for  developing  countries, 
have  become  very  volatile,  as  have  the  prices  of  food 
commodities. Flows of private capital meant for foreign 
direct investment cannot escape the negative impact of 
the crisis. At the same time, we see a tangible reduction 
of aid for development and other forms of official f lows 
from countries of the North to those of the South.
With  regard  to  food  security,  almost  16  million 
people in Sahel countries face problems of famine and 
nutrition, in spite of the many efforts made individually 
by  our  States  and  the  collective  initiatives  in  the 
African Union through the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  and  through  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  In  fact,  of  40 
countries facing a food shortage throughout the world, 
34 still are in Africa, even though about twenty of them 
have  allocated  at  least  20  per  cent  of  their  budget  to 
agriculture. That is why the nineteenth ordinary session 
of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of 
the  African  Union  adopted  a  decision  declaring  2014 
the Year of Agriculture and Food Security in Africa to 
mark the tenth anniversary of the Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  The  forecasted 
increase in food commodity prices, according to recent 
estimates of the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the United Nations, and the already high costs of energy 
are certainly additional burdens for already vulnerable 
populations. 
We  also  welcome  the  positive  initiative  of  the 
New  Alliance  for  Food  Security  and  Nutrition  taken 
by  President  Barack  Obama  on  the  margins  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  Summit,  held  on  18  and  19  May  at 
Camp David, which calls for bringing together donors, 
partner countries and the private sector for a common 
cause aimed at pulling 50 million people out of poverty 
in  the  next  ten  years.  We  hope  that  this  will  allow  us 
to  mobilize  more  assistance  for  African  countries  in 
order  to  improve  food  security  and  nutrition  in  order 
to  accelerate  their  progress  towards  achieving  the 
Millenium Development Goals.
It is also important not to disappoint the hopes raised 
by  the  conclusions  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20),  which  adopted 
more  than  700  official  commitments  and  promises  of 
gifts  totaling  more  than  $500  billion.  The  impact  of 
those  conferences  will  be  measured  by  the  fulfilment 
of the decisions and commitments. 
Africa  hopes  that  the  results  of  the  work  of  the 
high-level  group  of  eminent  persons  selected  by  the 
Secretary-General  to  advise  him  on  the  post-2015 
development  programme  and  the  working  group  to 
define  sustainable  development  goals  will  be  able 
to  achieve  convergence  in  their  efforts  to  suggest  a 
vision  of  sustainable  human  development,  capable 
of  mobilizing  the  international  community  so  as  to 
achieve equity and attain a prosperity shared by all.
Africa, the cradle of humankind, is also a continent 
of the future, of hope and hopefulness. Indeed, thanks 
to  the  incalculable  potential  of  its  subsoil  and  to  the 
youthfulness  of  its  population  —  which  in  2050  will 
number 2 billion, 60 per cent of whom will be less than 
35 years old — Africa could become the driving force 
for growth of the global economy, if that youth becomes 
professionalized.  
That  is  why  we  raised  to  cardinal  principles 
the  values  of  unity,  stability,  peace,  security,  good 
governance  and  the  struggle  against  any  impediments 
to our development, particularly corruption, impuntiy, 
the  loss  of  accountability,  fratricidal  wars,  political 
and  institutional  instability  and  brutal  challenges  to 
the constitutional order. We have affirmed all of those 
22 
12-52029
values  through  the  African  Charter  on  Democracy, 
Elections  and  Governance,  the  African  charter  on 
public  service  and  the  African  peace  and  security 
mechanisms, et cetera.
throughout 
the  continent  and 
its  economic 
Africa  has  decided  to  establish  a  free  trade 
is 
the 
zone 
integration 
process  of  accelerating 
its  ambitious  programme  of  developing 
through 
infrastructure  —  namely,  energy,  railroad  networks, 
airports  and  ports.  That  feeds  the  hope  that  we  will 
have support for private-public partnerships to finance 
those wide-ranging infrastructure programmes. 
in 
In  our  implacable  fight  against  poverty,  Africa 
has  no  choice  but  to  persevere  in  its  efforts  to  ensure 
progress  in  the  areas  of  food,  nutrition,  health,  water 
provisioning, 
technical  and 
professional education for all, and the independence of 
women and children. 
sanitation,  primary, 
The  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and 
malaria  is  a  top  priority  for  the  continent,  and  we 
will  not  be  idle  as  long  as  we  have  not  achieved  the 
objectives  that  we  set  in  Abuja.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome  the  decision  adopted  by  the  Assembly  of 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  African  Union 
asking the Commission of the Union to develop a road 
map for the African Union for shared responsibility and 
global solidarity in combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 
and  malaria  in  Africa  for  the  period  of  2012  to  2015. 
A  high-level  coordinating  meeting  on  the  subject  will 
take  place  tomorrow,  26  September  2012,  at  United 
Nations Headquarters.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
I  call  on  the  spirit  of  solidarity  of  developed 
countries  and  of  countries  of  the  South  that  are 
experiencing  considerable  economic  expansion  to  set 
up,  according  to  their  historic  responsibility  and  their 
abilities,  opportunities  to  assist  the  efforts  of  African 
countries, as was agreed during the fourth Ministerial 
Conference  of  the  Least  Developed  Countries,  held 
in  Istanbul,  Turkey  in  May  2011,  as  well  as  at  the 
Group  of  20  Summit  in  Los  Cabos,  Mexico,  in  June. 
The  recommendations  of  those  bodies  ref lect  well 
our common ambition to transition of half of the least 
developed  countries  to  the  category  of  middle-income 
countries  by  2020  —  an  ambition  that  has  been  fully 
integrated into the Rio+20 vision.
A/67/PV.6
My  fervent  wish  is  that  the  current  difficulties  of 
development partners of the North, due to the sovereign 
debt  and  bank  crises,  and  the  austerity  measures  that 
they are rightly imposing on themselves do not def lect 
them from their commitments to a significant increase 
in development aid. In that regard, I am pleased by the 
reaffirmation at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable 
Development  of  the  resolve  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government to spare no effort to more promptly achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
attaining the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, 
while bearing in mind the concerns linked to the risks 
that current production and consumption methods pose 
to  the  planet  in  terms  of  the  accelerated  depletion  of 
resources and the challenges for future generations.
in 
inclusive  governance 
I  am  convinced  that  a  new  world  is  possible.  It 
presupposes 
international 
political,  financial  and  economic  bodies.  Moreover, 
the  continuing  challenges  facing  humanity  make  us 
fully aware of our interdependence and the need for an 
agreed system of governance in managing international 
relations 
to 
unilateralism and coercive domination.
than  withdrawal  and 
rather 
resort 
I remain convinced that a new world characterized 
by  peace,  stability,  security  and  the  shared  prosperity 
of our planet and our peoples will emerge only by the 
international  community  sharing  its  technology  and 
financial  resources,  together  with  the  wealth  of  the 
African continent. May God bless our planet.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Benin for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the 
Republic of Finland 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of 
12-52029
23
A/67/PV.6
the  Republic  of  Finland,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President Niinistö: May I begin by congratulating 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  Let 
me  assure  him  that  Finland  is  fully  behind  him  as  he 
fulfils  his  important  duties.  We  look  forward  to  close 
cooperation with him.
I  have  the  pleasure  and  honour  to  address  the 
General Assembly for the first time as President of the 
Republic  of  Finland.  The  United  Nations  is  the  forum 
to  which  our  peoples’  expectations  are  directed  when 
challenges  that  affect  us  all  need  to  be  addressed.  We 
in this Hall must recognize our responsibilities. We all 
must be ready to shoulder them.
A  profound  change  is  sweeping  over  the  globe. 
Rapid  economic  growth  in  the  countries  of  the  global 
South has already made greater well-being  a reality for 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people.  More  people  have  the 
chance  to  lift  themselves  out  of  poverty.  More  people 
have  the  opportunity  for  political  participation.  These 
developments  will  make  our  world  more  just  and  less 
prone  to  conf lict.  That  is  in  Finland’s  interest.  It  is  in 
the interests of us all.
At  the  same  time,  the  tectonic  plates  of  economic 
power  are  shifting.  Global  instruments  are  needed 
to  manage  that  shift.  The  United  Nations  and  the 
various  “G  Groups”  need  to  work  together  better.  We 
recognize  that  such  groups  have  an  important  role  to 
play in making the United Nations a more dynamic and 
relevant player in the world economy.
Finland sees itself as a responsible member of the 
international  community  —  a  good  global  citizen,  if 
you  will.  We  support  the  United  Nations  in  word  and 
in  deed  because  it  is  in  our  national  interest  to  do  so. 
The United Nations is a genuinely universal forum for 
cooperation.  It  has  unique  legitimacy.  For  us,  it  is  an 
indispensable  means  to  promote  international  peace 
and  security,  development  and  human  rights.  As  a 
small  country  —  there  are  only  some  5  million  of  us 
Finns — a world order based on respect for the United 
Nations  Charter  and  international  law  is  a  must.  It  is 
not an option.
Finland 
is  a  candidate 
for  non-permanent 
membership  in  the  Security  Council  for  the  term 
2013-2014. We wish to shoulder the responsibility that 
membership in the Council entails. We believe that we 
could make a contribution. Finland would approach the 
issues on the Council’s agenda as an engaged Member 
State. We would be ready to look for constructive and 
even-handed solutions to common problems. We believe 
that as a small and militarily non-aligned Member State, 
we  have  what  it  takes.  Finland’s  candidacy  enjoys  the 
full support of the other Nordic countries — Denmark, 
Iceland, Norway and Sweden. 
The  ability  to  prevent  conf lict  around  the  world 
remains  the  United  Nations  core  mission.  It  is  the 
yardstick  by  which  United  Nations  successes  or 
failures  are  measured.  It  is  the  Security  Council  that 
shoulders  the  main  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of international peace and security.
Peacekeeping  mandated  by  the  Council  is  an 
important means at our disposal in that regard. Finland 
has  participated  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  as 
long as it has been a Member State. We are also ready to 
share  with  other  Members  and  regional  organizations 
the  expertise  that  we  have  gained  with  respect  to 
training peacekeepers. Our training centre, the Finnish 
Defence Forces International Centre, is at the service of 
the United Nations.
Peacekeeping  is  indispensable  but  is  not  enough. 
Soldiers are needed to secure the conditions for peace 
to  begin  to  be  built.  However,  in  the  end,  peace  is 
built  by  civilians.  That  is  why  Finland  has  long  paid 
special attention to civilian crisis management. Finnish 
experts  —  police  officers  and  experts  in  the  rule  of 
law,  gender  equality  and  human  rights  —  participate 
in peacekeeping operations in many parts of the world.
Effective  mediation  is  also  a  must.  Finland  has 
made  a  strong  contribution  to  mediating  conf licts. 
My  predecessor,  President  Martti  Ahtisaari,  won  the 
Nobel  Peace  Prize  for  his  decades-long  career  as  a 
successful  mediator.  At  the  initiative  of  Finland  and 
Turkey, a resolution was adopted in this Hall last year 
that  strengthened  the  normative  basis  for  mediation 
(resolution  65/283).  I  am  glad  that  the  Secretary-
General  will  soon  make  his  guidelines  on  mediation 
available  to  all  Member  States,  regional  organizations 
and  other  actors.  I  encourage  him  to  make  full  use  of 
the powers that the Charter grants him in that regard. 
Respect  for  the  rule  of  law  is  part  and  parcel  of 
building  peace  in  post-conf lict  societies.  Impunity 
often leaves behind the seeds of another conf lict. In the 
long run, economic development is sustainable only if 
the  rule  of  law  is  respected.  It  is  encouraging  that  the 
24 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
High-level Meeting on the rule of law yesterday showed 
that there is indeed the political commitment to further 
such efforts.
Respect  for  the  rule  of  law  instructs  us  to  honour 
the beliefs of others, but it also requires us to condemn 
all  violence.  Finland,  together  with  the  other  Nordic 
countries,  will  again  introduce  a  draft  resolution  on 
the  protection  of  diplomatic  missions  in  the  General 
Assembly. Upholding diplomatic rights and immunities 
is in our common interest.
Finland  is  ready  to  put  its  expertise  at  the  disposal  of 
the international community.
The  conventional  weapons  trade  clearly  needs 
better  global  regulation.  It  is  regrettable  that  the 
negotiations  on  the  arms  trade  treaty  ended  without 
the desired outcome. The goal is in sight, however. It is 
important  to  ensure  that  the  process  continues  within 
the  United  Nations  context.  As  one  of  the  sponsors, 
Finland continues to reach out for a substantive treaty 
and one that is as universal as possible.
Poverty  reduction  is  the  ultimate  means  to  secure 
peace in many parts of the world. That requires, above 
all,  economic  growth  and  a  level  playing-field  for  all. 
Development  cooperation  can  assist,  especially  in  the 
least developed countries. Those countries that already 
suffer  the  effects  of  climate  change  are  particularly 
vulnerable  and  in  need  of  our  support.  Finland  has 
a  record  of  being  a  reliable  partner  for  developing 
countries  stretching  over  half  a  century.  Despite  the 
well-known  budgetary  pressures  within 
the  euro 
zone,  Finland  has  increased  its  outlay  fordevelopment 
cooperation  to  an  annual  level  of  about  $1.5  billion  in 
recent years.
In  Libya,  the  United  Nations  was  instrumental  in 
laying the groundwork for a new and hopeful future for 
its people. In Syria, the tragic situation is, if anything, 
getting worse. The Security Council has not been able to 
take the leading role that it is expected to take under the 
Charter with respect to threats to peace such as in that 
country. The General Assembly has, on the other hand, 
sent  a  strong  signal  that  the  international  community 
cannot  remain  indifferent.  The  killings  of  civilians 
must  stop.  All  members  of  the  Security  Council  must 
cooperate to find a way out of the crisis. The authority 
of  the  United  Nations  will  suffer  if  efforts  to  end  the 
crisis move elsewhere.
Weapons of mass destruction remain an existential 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Finland 
has  been  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  from  the  very 
beginning.  The  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons, 
disarmament and the right to the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy are all necessary parts of the whole.
Finland  is  prepared  to  host  a  conference  on  the 
establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction this 
year. The task has been described as difficult but, rest 
assured, we will do our utmost to complete it. Nuclear 
material  cannot  be  allowed  to  fall  into  the  wrong 
hands.  Finland  is  on  track  to  fulfil  the  commitments 
that  we  undertook  at  the  Washington  conference  in 
2010. National measures and international cooperation 
are both needed to stop nuclear terrorism. As a user of 
peaceful nuclear energy, Finland is strongly committed 
to continuing the process.
Chemical  weapons  were  totally  banned  some 
years  ago.  The  treaty  is  not  yet  universal,  though. 
The  Finnish  Institute  for  Verification  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  is  an  established  and  respected 
institution.  Should  the  need  arise  in  the  Middle  East, 
The  Syrian  conf lict  has  overshadowed  the  Middle 
East  peace  process.  That  is  something  that  the  parties 
and the international community can ill afford. A two-
State solution, within which an independent, viable and 
contiguous Palestinian State lives in peace and security 
with  the  State  of  Israel,  is  slipping  out  of  reach.  The 
Palestinians  have  waited  patiently.  The  negotiations 
must  restart.  That  is  the  only  way  forward.  Renewed 
negotiations  need  to  result  in  a  sustainable  solution 
that  leads  to  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State, 
while  respecting  Israel’s  legitimate  security  concerns. 
Settlements are squarely a contravention of international 
law and a growing obstacle to peace.
The President returned to the Chair.
The Security Council has powers, but with authority 
comes  responsibility.  I  hope  that,  in  a  few  weeks,  at 
an election held here in this Hall, Finland is entrusted 
by  fellow  Member  States  with  such  powers  and  the 
attendant responsibility for two years. Finland will act 
in  the  Council  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  on  the  basis  of  our  values.  We  will  work 
constructively  and  pragmatically  in  order  to  maintain 
and  strengthen  international  peace  and  security  to the 
best of our ability.
12-52029
25
A/67/PV.6
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Finland 
for the statement he has just made.
that  are  inclusive  of  women  and  minorities  and  that 
create  the  conditions  for  the  further  participation  of 
citizens in political life.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Demetris Christofias, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Demetris Christofias, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Demetris  Christofias,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Christofias (spoke in Greek; English text 
provided by the delegation): Allow me to congratulate 
you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to express my 
delegation’s  support  to  you  in  discharging  your  duties  
I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser, for the excellent way in which he conducted 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank the Secretary-General for his report on the work 
of the Organization (A/67/1).
Owing  to  its  geographical  location  and  historical 
ties  with  its  neighbouring  countries,  Cyprus  has  been 
closely  following  and  has  taken  particular  interest  in 
the  developments  in  the  wider  Middle  East  and  North 
Africa  over  the  past  18  months.  The  sovereignty  of 
peoples  was  and  remains  a  fundamental  principle  of 
the Organization and the functioning of States. As the 
international  community,  we  should,  in  our  opinion, 
address events there through that prism, respecting the 
right of each people to determine its own future.
During  that  period,  we  witnessed  transformations 
in Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen and Libya. We stand by those 
peoples  through  that  transition  and  encourage  their 
efforts on the difficult road to consolidating democracy 
and the rule of law. We look forward to new structures 
It  is  with  great  sadness,  however,  that  we  are 
witnessing  the  loss  of  human  lives  in  the  region. 
Increased violence in Syria continues, and the potential 
spillover  effects  to  neighbouring  countries  are  a  great 
cause  for  concern.  We  strongly  condemn  the  violence 
and  the  massacres  of  innocent  civilians  in  Syria  and 
call for their immediate cessation. There is undoubtedly 
a humanitarian crisis there that needs urgent attention. 
Recent  consultations  in  the  Security  Council  have 
emphasized that. The Republic of Cyprus stands ready 
to  contribute  to  international  efforts  to  manage  the 
crisis,  in  particular  as  the  fire  is  raging    just  outside 
our door.
We remain committed to respecting the sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Syria  and  emphasize  that 
the  continued  violence  and  its  recent  intensification 
underscore  the  need  for  a  political  solution.  In  that 
respect,  I  join  the  rest  of  the  international  community 
in  expressing  our  unequivocal  support  for  the  newly 
appointed  Joint  Special  Representative  for  Syria, 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  with  the  sincere  hope  that  he 
will help bring the conf lict to an end.
Against  that  background  of  significant  changes  in 
the region, the Middle East peace process continues to 
be at an impasse. It is imperative to resume negotiations 
that  can  eventually  lead  to  the  implementation  of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  the 
establishment  of  a  free  and  independent  Palestinian 
State on the basis of the pre-1967 borders. At the same 
time,  the  solution  must  address  Israel’s  legitimate 
security concerns.
No viable solutions can be achieved in the absence 
of  political  dialogue.  As  you,  Mr.  President,  wisely 
proposed  upon  your  election,  the  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  by  peaceful  means”  is  the  overarching 
purpose  of  the  United  Nations.  It  nevertheless  also 
remains a timeless challenge. I can personally attest to 
that.
Cyprus  still  faces  the  consequences  of  foreign 
intervention,  namely, 
invasion  and 
occupation.  More  than  one  third  of  my  country’s 
territory is still under the military occupation of Turkey, 
a fellow Member State of the Organization. 
the  Turkish 
26 
12-52029
Our  participation  at  the  United  Nations  requires 
engagement  in  the  struggle  for  the  protection  of 
human  rights.  We  share  a  commitment  to  the  rule  of 
law  and  are  proponents  of  peace  and  security  in  the 
world.  Yesterday,  we  supported  the  Declaration  of  the 
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National 
and  International  Levels  (resolution  67/1),  affirming 
the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and  respect  for  their 
territorial integrity.
Yet  Turkey,  after  invading  Cyprus  in  1974,  has 
continued to occupy the northern part of the island for 
the  past  38  years,  maintaining  a  strong  military  force 
and continuing the mass transfer of settlers from Turkey, 
pursuant to its policy for the demographic alteration of 
my  country’s  population.  Turkey  continues  to  violate 
the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  tens 
of  thousands  of  displaced  persons,  including  usurping 
their  property  and  violating  the  rights  of  the  besieged 
and those who have lost their loved ones and continue 
to search for them.
Since  the  assumption  of  my  duties  as  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in  2008,  I  took  the  initiative, 
in  collaboration  with  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, to end the stalemate and to start a new process 
of direct negotiations with the then leader of the Turkish 
Cypriot community, Mr. Mehmet Ali Talat, on the basis 
of  a  bicommunal  and  bizonal  federation  with  a  singly 
sovereignty,  citizenship  and  international  personality. 
We  came  to  an  agreement  on  those  conditions  with 
Mr. Talat. The process began under the auspices of the 
Secretary-General and is being facilitated by his good 
offices mission on the island.
I  believe  that  the  Turkish  Cypriot  side,  under 
Mr.  Talat,  shared  the  vision  of  a  solution,  for  the 
benefit of all Cypriots, to terminate the occupation and 
establish  the  conditions  for  lasting  peace  and  security 
on  the  island.  Despite  the  difficulties  posed  by  the 
occupation,  at  the  time  we  achieved  convergence  in  a 
number of important areas.
Since  2010,  however,  despite  committing  itself  in 
the presence of the Secretary-General to continuing the 
talks from where they had left off, the current Turkish 
Cypriot  leadership,  under  Mr.  Eroğlu,  has  broken  that 
joint commitment and has retracted from the agreement 
worked  out  with  the  previous  Turkish  Cypriot  leader. 
In  addition,  since  last  March,  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
leadership,  with  Turkey’s  support,  has  abandoned 
the  negotiations  in  response  to  the  assumption  of  the 
A/67/PV.6
presidency of the Council of the European Union by the 
Republic of Cyprus. 
For  our  part,  we  remain  committed  to  Security 
Council  resolution  2026  (2011),  which  provides  that 
an  accord  on  the  internal  aspects  of  the  Cyprus  issue 
must  be  achieved  before  convening  an  international 
conference  on  the  international  aspects  of  the  matter 
with the consent of the two communities. 
We  remain  unchanged  in  our  commitment  to 
returning  to  the  negotiating  table;  to  continuing  the 
negotiations in good faith; and to respecting in practice, 
not  just  in  words,  the  agreed  basis  for  the  solution  of 
a  bicommunal  and  bizonal  federation  with  a  single 
sovereignty,  citizenship  and  international  personality 
and political equality, as defined in the relevant Security 
Council resolutions. 
We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General,  who 
has willingly devoted his time and effort and invested 
in  that  process,  despite  the  many  challenges  that  this 
international Organization faces.
I  call  on  the  Turkish  Cypriot  leadership  to  return 
to  the  table  and  to  share  our  vision  for  a  united  and 
peaceful  Cyprus.  A  solution  to  the  Cyprus  problem 
requires the support of all concerned parties. Turkey’s 
positive  contribution  and  practical  support  for  efforts 
on the part of the two communities to take the process 
forward  is  crucial.  Yet  Turkey  has  instead  been 
pursuing  “gunboat  diplomacy”,  with  frequent  displays 
of military strength around Cyprus.
Turkey’s  alarming  behaviour  has  been  escalating 
since  September  2011,  when  Cyprus  undertook 
exploration  activities 
its  exclusive  economic 
zone,  based  on  its  rights  under  international  law  and 
particularly the 1982 United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. 
in 
Turkey  has  neither  signed  the  aforementioned 
Convention  nor  abided  by 
relevant  customary 
international  law.  On  the  contrary,  Turkey  has  carried 
out unilateral actions with respect to sea areas that are 
situated  patently  beyond  any  reasonable  geographical 
or  legal  limit  of  its  continental  shelf  and  potential 
exclusive economic zone and that clearly fall within the 
exclusive  economic  zone  and  continental  shelf  of  the 
Republic of Cyprus.
Turkey  is  behaving  as  if  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
did not exist on the map of the region. Such behavior, 
by a country seeking to become a member State of the 
12-52029
27
A/67/PV.6
European  Union  and  supposedly  seeking  to  maintain 
zero  problems  with  its  neighbours,  cannot  and  should 
not be tolerated by the international community. I call 
on Turkey, before this Assembly, to cease its provocative 
behaviour. I repeat at the same time that in a reunified 
Cyprus the natural resources, including hydrocarbons, 
will  be  the  common  wealth  of  all  Cypriots  —  both 
Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots alike.
The  deadline  set  by  the  international  community 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals in 2015 is nearing. We have seen much progress 
thus far but much more remains to be done, as poverty 
and  hunger  persist.  In  looking  beyond  2015,  we  need 
to  recommit  ourselves  to  a  solid  new  agenda  aimed 
at  poverty  eradication,  inclusive  economic  and  social 
development,  environmental  sustainability  and  peace 
and security for all.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Cyprus 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Demetris Christofias, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
Address by His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin 
Khalifa Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar.
His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa  Al-Thani,  Amir 
of  the  State  of  Qatar,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
Sheikh  Al-Thani  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the  outset 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session and to wish him all success.
I would also like to seize this opportunity to thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his continued work 
in support of the role of the United Nations.
These  days,  the  Arab  world  is  experiencing  a 
difficult and risky period that is, at the same time, full 
of hope. As a matter of fact, it is an impressive attempt 
to  correct  prevailing  conditions  in  a  region  with  a 
special history, at a time when the world order is rapidly 
changing. The current period represents a special, new 
and unprecedented experience that forms part of human 
history.  Today’s  experiences  differ  from  the  previous 
experiences  of  nations  and  peoples  who  participated 
in  changing  times.  They  accepted  the  necessary 
consequences  and  bore  the  costs  with  the  knowledge 
that  the  costs  were  consistent  with  moving  forward  at 
the  appropriate  time  in  response  to  ambitions  towards 
freedom, enlightenment, respect for the dignity of man 
and development. But the Arab experience of transition 
is unique in its pace and process.
Conditions  in  the  Arab  world,  seen  from  afar, 
may  show  disturbances  and  problems  in  many  places 
with  images  of  smoke  and  f lames.  However,  I  would 
like,  from  this  rostrum,  to  reassure  all  those  who  are 
following the events in the region and may sometimes 
feel uncomfortable about what they see and hear. Those 
events represent the movement of a nation struggling to 
cope with the times and continue its forward march, as 
it has many times before. Yet now that march has been 
interrupted by obstacles, both external and internal and 
regional and international. 
Those obstacles have frustrated its will and derailed 
its march. But it has recently taken matters into its own 
hands  after  having  suffered  dictatorship,  dependence 
and corruption.
We remember that the American political and social 
experience  was  born  of  a  civil  war  that  the  country 
had  to  undergo  to  affirm  its  unity.  Today’s  Europe 
experienced  terrible  world  wars  until  it  achieved  a 
degree  of  unity  that  could  not  be  achieved  by  arms or 
hegemony.  And  Asia  has  seen  highly  successful  cases 
of  nations  advancing  and  achieving  their  aspirations, 
after long periods of painful new birth.
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  thanks  to 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its previous session and one of the 
most capable Qatari diplomats, for his efforts to ensure 
the successful work of the General Assembly.
I  say  this  to  assure  whoever  cares  about  our  part 
of the world and its future that what is going on in our 
region is natural and historic.
It is not reasonable to expect that people can attain 
their freedom as soon as they ask for it. Human history 
28 
12-52029
shows that peoples have sacrificed their lives and wealth 
to gain freedom. In the same way, dictatorships do not 
change  at  the  first  signs  of  revolution  but  require  real 
resistance to depose them. The desire for advancement 
will  not  eliminate  backwardness  except  through  hard 
work.  Occupied  territories  will  never  be  restored  by  a 
mere rejection of the occupation, but by persistence in 
demanding rights and by resistance using all legitimate 
means.
What  adds  to  the  difficulties  of  the  transition  in 
our Arab world is that it takes place in a time of great 
aspirations and a climate subject to all sorts of changes 
and  complications.  Our  peoples  have  had  to  fight  to 
change  their  lives  under  circumstances  that  differ 
greatly from those faced by others in similar situations. 
In  America,  Europe,  Asia  and  other  places,  historical 
transitions have taken place within certain limits. In the 
Arab  world,  however,  that  birth  has  had  to  take  place 
under  spotlights,  before  the  eyes  of  the  entire  world, 
under the watchful eye of satellites crisscrossing space 
and shaped by electronic media, without any shield or 
barrier of any sort.
In  order  to  achieve  their  objectives,  those  who 
undertake internal and external interventions to peoples 
from  attaining  their  legitimate  rights  do  not  hesitate 
to  use  all  means  at  their  disposal,  from  exploitation 
of  the  past  and  its  complex  legacy  to  other  means  of 
provocation. They can even use arms, shedding seas of 
blood, if other means fail or take too long. All of that 
has  made  our  transition  from  past  to  future  and  from 
backwardness  to  development  a  risky  process,  under 
fire from all corners.
Together with others, we realized the risks inherent 
in the current phase of the evolution of our nation and of 
the Arab world. If we could ask for one thing during this 
session, it would be an encouraging reconfirmation of 
the right of our Arab world to continue its advancement 
and  achieve  its  aspirations  in  a  new  world,  a  world 
shaped  by  science  and  technology,  a  world  that  the 
pioneers  who  wrote  the  well-known  conventions  on 
rights and freedom could not have imagined.
On the other hand, I hope that this world gathering 
will  take  a  stand  that  ref lects  sympathy  with  the 
historic transformations under way in the Arab world. 
That  would  reassure  the  people  who  are  working 
hard  and  with  determination  to  carve  out  a  place  for 
themselves  in  history  and  who  struggle  to  achieve 
freedom and dignity, hoping for a better tomorrow for 
future generations.
A/67/PV.6
The situation in Syria has reached an unacceptable 
phase.  Hundreds  of  innocent  Syrians  are  killed  every 
day,  under  the  fire  of  a  regime  that  does  not  hesitate 
to use all sorts of weapons against its own people. We 
have  used  all  available  means  to  help  Syria  extricate 
itself from the cycle of killing, but in vain. The Security 
Council has failed to reach an effective position. 
In  view  of  that,  I  believe  that  the  Arab  countries 
themselves  should  intervene,  in  order  to  fulfil  their 
national humanitarian, political and military duties, and 
do what is necessary to stop the bloodshed in Syria, the 
killing  of  innocent  people  and  their  displacement  and 
guarantee  a  peaceful  transition  of  power.  We  do  have 
a  precedent  in  that  respect.  Arab  forces  intervened  in 
Lebanon in the mid-1970s to stop the internal fighting 
there, and their efforts proved effective and useful. We 
urge all countries that believe in the cause of the Syrian 
people to provide every type of support to that people 
until they are able to secure their legitimate rights.
Despite  all  the  suffering  in  the  Middle  East,  the 
core  problem  remains  the  Palestinian  question:  the 
continued  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Arab  territories 
in  the  West  Bank,  the  Golan  and  Shaba’a  farms  in 
southern Lebanon, the stif ling blockade imposed on the 
Gaza Strip and the continued arrest and imprisonment 
of  thousands  of  Palestinians  in  Israeli  prisons.  The 
peace  process  has  stalled  because  of  the  current 
Israeli position that insists on continuing the policy of 
settlements in the Palestinian territories and Jerusalem 
and refusing to cede them.
Sometimes I would like to ask why the international 
community  does  nothing  to  implement  the  relevant 
resolutions on the Middle East. Why does the Security 
Council  not  adopt  a  resolution  under  Chapter  VII  that 
would force Israel to lift the blockade of Gaza and stop 
its  settlement  activity,  a  resolution  that  would  return 
the peace process to the comprehensive track instead of 
the piecemeal approach, which does not lead to results? 
I find no answer to my questions.
We firmly believe in the importance of the freedom 
of  expression  and  the  right  of  people  to  express  their 
opinion based on our belief in the sanctity of humanity 
and  the  dignity  of  man,  who  was  created  by  God  as 
free  and  dignified.  At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that 
freedom  should  not  exceed  reasonable  limits  and 
become a tool to hurt and insult the dignity of others or 
ther dignity of religions, faiths and sacred beliefs. This 
12-52029
29
A/67/PV.6
is a phenomenon that we have seen lately and which has 
regrettably led to the killing of innocent people.
We have called and we continue to call for dialogue 
in  order  to  exchange  information  and  experience.  We 
have  called  and  continue  to  call  for  dialogue  among 
civilizations  and  religions.  We  have  established  the 
Doha  International  Centre  for  Interfaith  Dialogue. 
We  have  called  and  still  call  for  dialogue  aimed  at 
acquainting ourselves with ideas and experiences from 
all over the globe and to learn about different faiths in 
order to ensure that human culture is interconnected and 
everyone has a say in its creation. Everyone should reap 
its  dividends,  based  on  understanding,  appreciation, 
knowledge and the full exercise of rights.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
election  of  our  brother  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud  as 
President  of  the  Somali  Republic,  and  to  wish  him 
every success in achieving security and stability in that 
country,  whose  people  have  suffered  so  much.  I  call 
on  the  international  community  to  exert  greater  effort 
to  help  Somalia  to  reach  a  solution  to  its  crisis  that  is 
acceptable to all the Somali parties, one that will pave 
the way for the return of peace to the country and will 
help  rebuild  the  State  after  the  long  years  of  war  and 
destruction.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Amir  of 
the State of Qatar for the statement he has just made.
I  have  on  previous  occasions  reiterated 
the 
importance  of  that  question  and  the  need  to  strike  a 
balance between respect for sacred faiths and religions 
and  freedom  of  expression  in  order  for  tolerance  to 
replace  intolerance  and  acceptance  of  the  other  to 
replace rejection and stereotyping, which is neither fair 
nor right. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to 
call on the United Nations, those who exercise wisdom 
and reason and those who have decision-making power 
at the international level to drsft internationally agreed 
laws,  procedures  and  controls  aimed  at  preventing 
religions  and  faiths  from  being  insulted  under  any 
pretext  and,  at  the  same  time,  upholding  the  right  of 
mankind to know and express its opinions.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
One  of  the  great  challenges  that  we  must  face  is 
the  question  of  climate  change  and  its  terrible  and 
destructive  consequences  for  all  countries.  This 
requires  us  to  cooperate  and  work  together  to  reach 
the  best  solutions  to  that  challenge  and  overcome  our 
differences.
I would like to note that the State of Qatar will host 
the eighteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  The  importance  of  this  conference  is  that  it 
could produce a road map that could help us deal with 
the  negative  effects  of  this  phenomenon.  I  would  like 
take  the  opportunity  of  speaking  in  this  international 
forum to invite all countries of the world to participate 
in the conference so that we may reach an international 
consensus on the matter.
His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rossen 
Plevneliev,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Bulgaria,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Plevneliev:  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me 
to  speak  from  this  rostrum  for  the  first  time  since  I 
took  office  in  January.  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
President Jeremić on assuming the chair of this highly 
representative  body  and  wish  him  success  in  his 
challenging  task.  I  also  wish  to  commend  the  work 
of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser, 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session. 
Let  me  express  our  gratitude  and  appreciation  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  inspiring 
vision, reform efforts and result-oriented action. I also 
wish to welcome the appointment of Mr. Jan Eliasson of 
Sweden as Deputy Secretary-General.
Our 
time 
is  marked  by  historic  shifts  and 
by 
and 
communications  that  shape  the  global  economy  and 
achievements 
technology 
in 
science, 
30 
12-52029
politics but that, we should also bear in mind, have an 
impact on every human being. More and more nations 
around  the  world  have  now  opted  for  open,  free  and 
democratic  societies  based  on  the  rule  of  law  and 
good  governance.  But  such  historic  transformations 
do  not  always  bring  more  peace  and  stability.  On 
many  occasions  we  still  face  extreme  violence  and 
bloodshed,  causing  senseless  loss  of  innocent  lives, 
human suffering and destruction.
The main theme of the Assembly’s general debate 
today  could  not  be  more  relevant  for  us  as  political 
leaders.  Dealing  with  violent  conf licts  and  promoting 
peace,  security,  development  and  human  rights  have 
always  been  at  the  core  of  the  United  Nations.  At 
yesterday’s  High-level  Meeting,  we  affirmed  our 
credo that the rule of law forms the basis of a peaceful 
and  predictable  system  of  international  relations. 
Nowadays, as conf licts have become more complex, we 
share the view that mediation and good offices should 
be  the  tools  of  preference  for  dealing  with  escalating 
tension.
justify 
Delivering justice is vital to addressing terrorism, 
one  of  the  ugliest  and  most  despicable  crimes  against 
humanity.  No  cause  whatsoever  can 
the 
indiscriminate  killing  of  innocent  civilians.  Sadly 
enough, no country or human being today can feel safe 
or insured against this evil. Just a few weeks ago, at the 
Sofia synagogue, we paid tribute to the memory of five 
Israeli citizens and one Bulgarian who lost their lives in 
the  shocking  terrorist  attack  last  July  at  the  airport  of 
Sarafovo, a lively tourist destination on our Black Sea 
coast.  From  this  high  stage  today  in  New  York,  a  few 
miles from the September 11 memorial, I now reaffirm 
our  strongest  condemnation  of  that  awful  crime.  My 
country  will  spare  no  effort  to  bring  the  perpetrators 
and  masterminds  to  justice.  That  attack  on  our  own 
soil has made us stronger and more determined to align 
with others in implementing the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
We  condemn  the  violent  acts  committed  recently 
in  the  name  of  defending  religious  beliefs.  This  is 
unacceptable.  We  urge  all  involved  to  show  tolerance 
and avoid provocative actions that can be destructive to 
peace and stability.
For  more  than  a  year  now  the  continuing  brutal 
violence  in  Syria  has  provoked  our  extreme  concern. 
Each  day  brings  testimony  of  unacceptable  levels 
of  bloodshed  and  human  suffering.  The  regime  in 
A/67/PV.6
Damascus has lost all legitimacy by waging a reckless 
war on its own people and refusing to heed the calls for 
a negotiated way out of the crisis. Due to the growing 
number  of  refugees,  the  humanitarian  situation  is 
deteriorating day by day and the stability of neighbouring 
countries  is  also  at  risk.  Bulgaria  condemns  these 
gross  violations  of  basic  United  Nations  principles 
and of international humanitarian law. We call for full 
accountability on the part of the perpetrators, including 
by  bringing  them  before  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  My  country  subscribes  to  the  acts  of  solidarity 
undertaken  by  the  European  Union  and  its  members 
in  providing  relief  to  the  suffering  civilian  population 
through emergency humanitarian assistance.
It  is  regrettable  that  the  active  involvement  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
has  so  far  failed  to  ensure  the  Syrian  authorities’ 
compliance  with 
the  peace  proposals  elaborated 
through international mediation. Bulgaria gave its full 
support to the diplomatic efforts of Mr. Kofi Annan and 
welcomed the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States for Syria. While the violence 
and  bloodshed  should  be  stopped  immediately,  we 
also  call  for  the  start  of  a  transition  towards  inclusive 
and  representative  democratic  rule  in  Syria,  one 
that  guarantees  the  rights  of  all  citizens  regardless 
of  ethnicity  or  religion.  Bulgaria  has  supported  the 
Syrian opposition groups in their efforts to unite on an 
alternative  to  the  current  regime,  on  the  basis  of  the 
vision of a new democratic State that can be a home that 
welcomes all Syrians.
The  promotion  of  just,  inclusive  and  transparent 
societies supports the process of democratic transition, 
known  as  the  Arab  Spring,  that  has  swept  across  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa.  Bulgaria  welcomes 
the  steps  taken  by  several  countries  on  the  path  to 
constitutional  and  political  reform,  and  we  trust  that 
those are now irreversible.
At the same time, the need to reactivate the Middle 
East  peace  process  seems  now  more  pressing  than 
ever. Bulgaria looks forward to the resumption in good 
faith of direct negotiations and expects both parties to 
demonstrate their continued commitment to a peaceful 
solution  that  respects  the  legitimate  interests  and 
sensitivities  of  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  people.  All 
efforts should made to create an environment conducive 
to  a  comprehensive  peace  settlement  between  the  two 
States,  a  two-State  solution.  In  that  respect,  we  urge 
12-52029
31
A/67/PV.6
both  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis  to  refrain  from 
any  unilateral  actions  that  could  be  destructive  to  the 
peace process.
is  essential 
that  we  continue 
Disarmament  and  non-proliferation  of  weapons 
of mass destruction are areas that continue to demand 
strong  political  will  and  action  by  the  international 
community.  It 
to 
strengthen the comprehensive regime of the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and of other 
major international instruments, such as the Chemical 
Weapons  Convention.  With  regard  to  conventional 
arms,  Bulgaria  consistently  supports  the  negotiation 
process  leading  to  the  adoption  of  a  legally  binding 
arms trade treaty that is robust in substance.
Along  with  others,  we  believe  that  Iran’s  full 
cooperation  with  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency is of paramount importance. The Government 
in Tehran must show greater transparency of its nuclear 
activities  and  fully  comply  with  all  relevant  Security 
Council  resolutions.  We  look  to  a  resumption  of  the 
high-level  negotiations  on  the  future  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme  and  a  clear  demonstration  of  political 
will  by  the  Iranian  authorities  to  undertake  concrete 
confidence-building steps and address the concerns of 
the international community.
Bulgaria  highly  values  the  role  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  as  the  primary  United  Nations  body 
for the protection and promotion of human rights. I am 
delighted to announce that my country will be seeking, 
for the first time, election to the Council for the period 
2019 to 2021.
Over  the  past  two  decades,  Bulgaria  has  gone 
through a successful transition from totalitarian rule to 
a functioning democracy with an open market economy 
and  a  vibrant  civil  society.  It  has  been  a  difficult, 
dramatic  and  sometimes  turbulent  journey.  I  think 
our  greatest  achievement  in  this  process  was  to  have 
preserved  the  long-standing  tradition  of  tolerance  and 
dialogue  between  ethnic  and  religious  communities 
within Bulgarian society. That tradition can be clearly 
illustrated by a glimpse of the centre of our capital, where 
four  temples  of  different  religions  —  Islam,  Judaism 
and  Catholic  and  Orthodox  Christianity  —  coexist 
peacefully,  surrounded  by  archaeological  monuments 
of several ancient civilizations.
It  is  in  this  spirit  that  we  stand  ready  to  share  the 
experience  from  our  road  to  democracy  with  other 
countries  undergoing  similar  challenges.  More  than 
representatives 
a  year  ago,  Bulgaria  initiated  an  international  forum 
called the Sofia Platform , providing a useful venue for 
dialogue  and  an  exchange  of  views  and  best  practices 
among  countries  in  the  region.  We  got  experts, 
officials  and 
from  Governments, 
non-governmental organizations and civil societies all 
over  the  world  focusing  on  the  transition  processes  in 
Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the Middle 
East.  The  forum  showed  that  although  the  historical, 
cultural and political realities vary in different countries 
and  regions,  conclusions  and  lessons  learned  can  be 
relevant  in  the  field  of  national  reconciliation,  rule  of 
law, institution-building and security sector reform.
Bulgaria  maintains  its  unwavering  commitment 
to  the  process  of  European  Union  (EU)  enlargement, 
involving  all  our  neighbouring  countries  of  South-
Eastern  Europe  and  the  Balkans.  We  confirm  our 
conviction that all States of the region should one day 
become  part  of  the  European  Union,  on  the  basis  of 
their own merits and criteria fulfilled in the negotiation 
process. At the same time, pursuing the national reform 
agendas,  solving  outstanding  issues  and  building 
regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, in 
accordance  with  the  European  standards,  is  of  direct 
benefit to all countries of the region and their European 
perspective.  All  of  us  in  South-Eastern  Europe  are 
interested  in  promoting  business  and  human  contacts 
with  our  neighbours,  developing  cross-border  projects 
and facilitating travel, building railways and highways, 
and  developing  communications  and  regional  energy 
and  transport  infrastructure  facilities —  all  as  part  of 
the  pan-European  networks.  That  is  why  we  need  to 
make the best use of existing regional bodies, such as the 
Organization  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
and  the  South-Eastern  European  Cooperation  Process 
with its Regional Cooperation Council.
A  few  months  ago,  at  the  Rio+20  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development,  we  made  a  good  start  on 
the  path  to  a  greener  and  safer  world.  The  outcome 
documents  indicate  that  sustainable  development  is 
the only possible way forward. The triple-win policies 
envisaged  in  the  outcome  document,  “The  future  we 
want” (resolution 66/288, annex) seek to advance social 
development,  economic  growth  and  environmental 
sustainability,  all  at  the  same  time.  Our  task  now  is 
to  focus  on  the  Conference  follow-up  and  to  deliver. 
The General Assembly should discuss the formulation 
of  sustainable  development  goals  to  be  integrated 
into  the  United  Nations  development  agenda  beyond 
2015.  We  see  an  important  role  for  the  Economic  and 
32 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
Social  Council  in  the  process,  and  we  stand  ready  to 
contribute,  taking  the  opportunity  of  our  membership 
in the Council.
In  the  context  of  the  United  Nations  development 
agenda, let me stress that Bulgaria, as an EU member, 
is  deeply  committed  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  is  working  to 
gradually increase its share as a donor of development 
and  humanitarian  aid, 
the 
commitments it has undertaken. During this Assembly 
session,  Bulgaria  will  sign 
the  Food  Assistance 
Convention.
in  compliance  with 
Being  myself  a  strong  supporter  of  greater  focus 
on education as a key area for sustainable development, 
allow  me  to  express  my  high  appreciation  for  the 
initiative  of  the  Secretary-General  “Education  First”. 
I  am  convinced  that  in  a  knowledge-based  network  of 
economies,  education  is  the  best  investment  in  order 
to  prepare  young  generations  for  global  citizenship. 
We  welcome  the  designation  of  UNESCO’s  Director-
General,  Mrs. 
the  Executive 
Secretary for this initiative. In view of her outstanding 
performance so far, Bulgaria advocates Mrs. Bokova’s 
re-election for a second term at the helm of  UNESCO 
for the period 2013 to 2017.
Irina  Bokova,  as 
We  highly  value  UNICEF’s  noble  mission  to 
promote  children’s  rights,  safety  and  well-being.  Over 
the  past  few  years,  the  role  of  UNICEF  in  Bulgaria 
evolved  from  the  usual  technical  assistance  to  a 
strategic  partnership  with  the  Government  in  order  to 
promote fundamental reforms. In November this year, 
my  country  will  host  a  UNICEF-sponsored  high-level 
regional conference on child care system reform.
Finally,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  that  Bulgaria 
will continue to give its full support to the noble cause 
of  building  a  stronger,  rule-based  multilateral  system 
with  an  enhanced  role  for  the  United  Nations  at  its 
centre.  Success  on  that  path  will  be  achieved  only  by 
working together.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Bulgaria for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, 
President of the Republic of Indonesia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of Indonesia.
Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  into  the 
GeneralAssembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Susilo 
Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Indonesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Yudhoyono: May peace be upon us all. 
I  am  honoured  to  represent  my  country,  Indonesia,  at 
this year’s General Assembly debate to discuss how we 
can  find  better  ways  to  peacefully  resolve  or  manage 
conf licts around the world.
This,  of  course,  is  what  the  United  Nations  is  all 
about: to end the scourge of war, and to create a peaceful 
and  equitable  world  order  based  on  international 
cooperation.
In the decades since its founding, the United Nations 
has  developed  a  number  of  instruments  to  address 
conf licts  in  all  their  manifestations.  During  those 
decades, many inter-State and intra-State conf licts have 
been  resolved  —  those  in  Angola,  Bosnia,  Cambodia, 
Timor-Leste, as well as many others.
The  question  we  must  now  ask  is  whether  those 
instruments are adequate to address the whole spectrum 
of conf licts that the world community now faces.
That  is  clearly  evident  in  the  Syrian  crisis.  The 
world  community  is  witnessing,  with  great  pain, 
the  worsening  violence  and  unfolding  humanitarian 
catastrophe on the ground; at the same time, the United 
Nations  is  in  a  state  of  paralysis  in  responding  to  the 
situation. There is no end in sight to the conf lict, and it 
appears that we have not yet seen the worst of the crisis.
Indonesia  therefore  reiterates  its  call  for  the 
immediate  cessation  of  violence  in  Syria,  which  has 
taken a high toll in innocent civilian lives. The Security 
Council must now unite and act decisively, as mandated 
by  the  United  Nations  Charter,  to  bring  the  situation 
under control.
12-52029
33
A/67/PV.6
Clearly,  whatever  the  explanation,  the  present 
international system cannot for now resolve the Syrian 
conf lict. There is every likelihood that the community 
of  nations  will  see  similar  conf licts  in  future.  It  will 
be in a different corner of the world, and in a different 
form,  with  different  actors.  It  will  not  help  the  cause 
of international peace if, once again, we end up being 
divided and unable to positively alter the course of the 
conf lict.  The  world  community  must  develop  ways  to 
address  them  more  effectively,  towards  their  peaceful 
end.
We  must  adapt  to  twenty-first  century  security 
challenges. There is no question that the world we live 
in today is in much better condition than it was in the 
twentieth  century.  Freedom  has  spread.  The  threat  of 
nuclear  holocaust  is  receding  significantly.  There  is 
no prospect of a world war, the kind that twice created 
such  destruction  during  the  twentieth  century.  The 
global  economy  has  expanded  remarkably.  Nations 
are  becoming  more 
interdependent.  International 
cooperation and partnerships are f lourishing.
However,  it  is  only  relative  peace,  not  total  peace 
as yet. We have moved from the era of the cold war to 
an era of “warm peace”. In this warm peace, the world 
remains  stuck  with  an  outdated  international  security 
architecture 
twentieth-century 
circumstances,  in  contrast  with  the  global  economic 
architecture,  which  has  done  much  better  in  adjusting 
to the twenty-first century.
ref lects 
that 
still 
In  this  warm  peace,  the  relationships  between  the 
major Powers are, for the first time, marked by relative 
stability  and  increased  cooperation.  But  the  question 
remains unanswered as to how they will accommodate 
the  growing  ranks  of  emerging  Powers  that  are 
reshaping the world order.
In this warm peace, old enmities and long-standing 
conf licts  can  still  resurface  in  the  new  strategic 
landscape, even carried on by new generations.
In  this  warm  peace,  we  are  seeing  new  security 
challenges  and  opportunities  arising  from  the  seismic 
power  shifts  that  are  occurring  in  some  regions.  The 
security  implications  of  the  political  events  in  the 
Middle East are still unfolding.
In this warm peace, the world community still has 
to  contend  with  an  array  of  unfinished  business:  the 
Arab-Israeli  conf lict,  nuclear  disarmament,  territorial 
disputes in the South China Sea, tensions in the Korean 
peninsula, and the like.
In this warm peace, new progress can easily regress. 
Hard-won  peace  processes  can  stall  or  even  crumble. 
Strategic miscalculations in disputed theatres may lead 
to rising tensions and armed clashes.
And  in  this  warm  peace,  pockets  of  hatred  and 
bigotry,  intolerance  and  extremism  continue  to  litter 
our world.
Perhaps  we  will  have  to  live  with  this  warm 
peace for decades. But I believe that we can lower the 
temperature  of  this  warm  peace.  Where  possible,  we 
can  resolve  conf licts  one  by  one.  We  can  strengthen 
the  building  blocks  of  peace.  We  can  promote  a  new 
globalism that can potentially change the dynamics of 
conf lict resolution.
In order to do that, we need to try new approaches 
and  be  more  imaginative.  The  first  thing  we  have  to 
do is to evolve a new strategic mindset. Let us face it: 
remnants of the cold-war mentality still persist in parts 
of the geopolitical landscape, not least in our own United 
Nations, where rigid, dogmatic, zero-sum calculations 
sometimes still come into play. For long-term peace, a 
peace born of trust and mutual confidence, we must get 
rid  of  that  mindset.  In  that  light,  we  must  continue  to 
work  towards  a  reformed  Security  Council,  a  Council 
that  ref lects  the  strategic  realities  of  the  twenty-first 
century and provides security to all.
We  must  also  work  to  perfect  the  instruments  of 
peace,  which  include  robust  regionalism.  We  in  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) have 
seen how such regionalism can be a force for peace and 
cooperation. As a result of a strong regionalism, all of 
South-east Asia has thrived under ASEAN cooperation. 
South-east Asia, which was once the cockpit of border 
wars and the proxy wars of extra-regional Powers, has 
come together.
After  ASEAN  was  founded,  in  1967,  it  devoted 
the  early  decades  of  its  life  as  a  regional  organization 
to  cultivating  the  habits  of  dialogue,  consultation  and 
cooperation,  not  only  among  its  members  but  with  its 
dialogue partners. Thus, each ASEAN country adopted 
a  new  strategic  mindset  based  on  trust  and  a  sense  of 
having  a  stake  in  the  success  and  progress  of  all  the 
others. Today the ASEAN family is united and at peace 
with itself and with the rest of the world.
34 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
Finally, the culture of peace, mutual tolerance and 
appreciation, and cooperation must be supported by the 
right  kind  of  economics.  People  need  to  be  fed,  to  be 
sheltered and to be assured of a future where they have 
opportunities for a living and a livelihood. That is the 
only  way  for  peace  to  be  locked  in  for  the  long  term; 
that is, when it brings dividends that give human beings 
robust confidence in the future.
The price of inequality between and within nations 
gives rise to tension born of grievances that can, unless 
effectively  addressed,  lead  to  radicalism  and  even 
violence,  which  threaten  international  and  national 
peace  and  security.  The  solution  is  to  form  a  global 
partnership  for  poverty  eradication  and  for  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and then 
to formulate a post-MDG development agenda we can 
fully carry out.
Our  experience  in  the  resolution  of  the  intra-state 
conf lict  in  the  province  of  Aceh  proves  that,  if  we  do 
enough for peace, if there is a conf luence of favourable 
circumstances,  and  if  we  are  prepared  to  seize  the 
moment, then peace can be achieved. The peace that we 
achieve will not only give temporary respite, it will also 
last for generations.
For  many  years,  peace  has  been  treated  as  if  it 
were  a  science.  There  are  whole  libraries  about  how 
it  can  be  achieved  and  preserved.  I  have  come  to  the 
conclusion, however, that if peace has a technology it is 
one born of experience. That experience can be shared 
and  can  be  useful  in  creating  new  experience.  And  if 
there  is  enough  sharing  of  experiences  —  and  that  is 
what  Indonesia  is  trying  to  achieve  —  and  if  there  is 
sufficient  political  will  to  apply  what  is  learned  from 
others to one’s unique circumstances, then peace can be 
widely spread. Peace can be effectively waged. And we 
would have a gentler, better world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
At the same time, we can also develop a universal 
culture of mutual tolerance and mutual appreciation of 
one  another’s  religious  convictions.  In  such  a  world, 
the  voice  of  the  moderates  —  the  voice  of  reason  and 
compassion  —  would  be  heard  clearly  over  the  din  of 
prejudice and bigotry. In a global regime of compassion 
and tolerance, no war is possible.
As  a  nation  that  celebrates  its  diversity  of  culture 
and  religions,  Indonesia  calls  for  mutual  respect  and 
understanding  among  peoples  of  different  faiths. 
Despite  initiatives  undertaken  by  States  at  the  United 
Nations and in other forums, the defamation of religions 
persists. We  have  seen  yet  another  of  its  ugly  faces  in 
the film “ Innocence of Muslims” that is now causing 
an international uproar.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
underlines  that,  in  exercising  freedom  of  expression, 
everyone  must  observe  morality  and  public  order. 
Freedom of expression is therefore not absolute. Hence, 
I  call  for  an  international  instrument  to  effectively 
prevent  incitement  to  hostility  or  violence  based  on 
religion  or  belief.  As  the  product  of  international 
consensus,  that  instrument  should  serve  as  a  point 
of  reference  with  which  the  world  community  must 
comply.
For  good  measure,  we  also  need  to  promote 
a  continuing  process  of  dialogue  among  faiths, 
civilizations  and  cultures.  Of  course,  that  dialogue 
should not remain a dialogue, but should translate into 
actual cooperation so that peoples of different cultures 
and  faiths  can  come  together  as  a  community  and 
care  for  one  another.  Those  communities  will  become 
bulwarks for peace and they will make it difficult if not 
impossible for any kind of armed conf lict to erupt.
We must also master the art of preventive diplomacy. 
Most  disputes  are  intractable;  they  simmer  for  what 
seems  to  be  an  eternity,  but  by  a  historical  reckoning 
they  are  not  really  long,  drawn-out  affairs.  Sooner  or 
later,  there  comes  a  conf luence  of  factors  and  events 
that  provides  a  window  of  opportunity  for  resolving  a 
dispute and removing conf lict from the table of options.
That  is  what  we  in  ASEAN  have  done  with  the 
potential conf licts in the South China Sea. The territorial 
and sovereignty disputes have been festering there for 
the better part of a century. But we are managing them 
with  restraint,  confidence-building  and,  at  present, 
through  earnest  negotiations  toward  a  legally  binding 
code of conduct in the South China Sea.
12-52029
35
A/67/PV.6
Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President 
of Georgia
militias and to show their support for the achievement 
of peace and prosperity in their own country.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Georgia.
Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mikheil 
Saakashvili, President of Georgia, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Saakashvili:  It 
is  always  a  great 
honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Assembly gives us a unique opportunity to debate the 
key  challenges  of  our  world  and  time,  and  to  identify 
and confront the problems that our nations are facing. 
It is a moment of collective ref lection and it should be 
a moment of truth.
Today,  20  months  after  the  act  of  despair  of  a 
young  Tunisian  citizen  that  strongly  shook  the  world 
and  generated  so  many  hopes  around  the  globe,  many 
people have doubts.
Some  are  telling  us  that  the  images  of  liberation 
and  joy  seen  around  the  world  have  been  replaced  by 
broken  promises,  despair  and  chaos,  that  the  world 
was  better  off  when  fewer  people  were  free,  and  that 
the  international  system  was  more  stable  when  fewer 
societies were open.
I  have  come  here  today  to  make  the  opposite 
argument. I have come here today to make the case for 
open societies.
After  the  horrible  attack  on  the  United  States 
consulate  in  Benghazi  and  the  death  of  Ambassador 
Chris  Stevens,  I  called  the  American  Ambassador  in 
Georgia to convey my condolences and to speak to him, 
to  share  my  sorrow  and  express  my  support  for  this 
unique nation.
I  was  struck  by  what  he  told  me.  I  was  struck  by 
the fact that American diplomats, beyond their pain and 
their anger, still believed so clearly that the liberation of 
Libya was fundamentally a good thing. Just a few days 
ago, the United States Ambassador in my country was 
proved right by the demonstrations held by the citizens 
of Benghazi, who went out to protest against extremist 
I was also struck by the visit last week to the United 
States by Aung San Suu Kyi, the joyous reception that 
America  gave  her,  and  her  desire  to  come  and  tell 
her  story  with  serenity  and  determination,  a  story  of 
progress  towards  freedom  in  the  face  of  seemingly 
impossible odds.
Twenty  months  after  the  act  of  despair  and  tragic 
death  of  Mohamed  Bouazizi,  there  are  many  who 
doubt the cause to which Ambassador Stevens gave his 
life,  who  doubt  the  vision  of  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi,  who 
doubt  freedom.  I  am  totally  certain  that  the  skeptics 
are  wrong.  A  free  society  has  never  meant  a  society 
without problems. On the contrary, an open society has 
problems, exposes them, shows them, deals with them 
and does not neglect them, because it keeps arguments 
open and gives Government a chance to be accountable.
An  open  society  is  a  place  where  improvements 
are  often  reached  through  noisy,  painful  and  chaotic 
processes.  Montesquieu  wrote  a  long  time  ago  that  if 
everyone  agrees  with  the  Government  and  everyone 
agrees with one another, that is not a country; that is a 
cemetery.
I speak from personal experience. My own country 
confronted democracy’s challenges once again this past 
week  when  evidence  emerged  of  abuses  in  our  prison 
system. The facts were sickening, and our responsibility 
was  clear.  Our  reaction  was  swift,  and  we  did  what 
democracies must do. We identified those responsible, 
and they were all arrested. Two Government Ministers 
have resigned, and we put in charge of the prison system 
its fiercest critic: the Georgian human rights defender, 
Georgia’s ombudsman. That is how democracies learn; 
that is how we improve.
That  is  how  my  own  Government  has  overcome 
past  errors  and  challenges  to  emerge  stronger,  more 
effective  and  ever  more  committed  to  building  and 
institutionalizing an open society.
It is clear that there are no shortcuts to accountability, 
and  no  fast-track  lines  to  freedom.  Building  and 
maintaining an open society entails a painful learning 
process and significant risk-taking. But the conclusion 
we  must  draw  in  this  respect,  from  Georgia  to  the 
events in Myanmar, is this: such risks are worth taking.
I am speaking to the Assembly on the eve of crucial 
elections in my country. I realize clearly the magnitude 
36 
12-52029
of  the  challenges  that  face  this  body  and  this  troubled 
world,  from  the  menace  of  nuclear  proliferation  to 
global  warming  and  poverty.  But  today  I  ask  for 
the  Assembly’s  attention  with  respect  to  the  events 
unfolding  in  Georgia,  because  I  believe  that  they  are 
part  of  the  broader,  global  question  facing  us  today: 
whether the quest for democracy and freedom can and 
will endure.
I came here to say that Georgia will remain an open 
society. That is the choice of our citizens, and there is 
no  alternative  to  this.  On  1  October,  my  nation  will 
vote  in  parliamentary  elections.  We  look  forward  to 
that day and to the opportunity to renew and strengthen 
the fundamental social contract that allows citizens to 
freely judge and choose their leaders.
Georgia  has  conducted  several  elections  in  recent 
years,  all  of  which  were  monitored  by  international 
observers and all of which were free and fair. We live in 
a world in which yesterday’s accomplishments are never 
enough,  and  I  have  made  a  commitment  to  the  effect 
that  this  year’s  vote  will  be  even  more  free  and  fair 
than the previous ones. We have taken numerous steps 
to pursue that goal. We have increased public funding 
and given free airtime on all national channels for ads 
from  all  political  parties,  in  addition  to  whatever  they 
can buy with their own money. We have proposed to all 
national  television  channels  a  “must  carry/must  offer” 
requirement, to ensure that all private cable networks, 
large  and  small,  broadcast  all  news-based  television, 
and they have accepted that proposal.
We have welcomed the first televised debate in our 
country’s history between candidates for Prime Minister 
and  heads  of  candidate  lists.  We  have  initiated  a  code 
of  conduct  to  eradicate  political  intimidation,  the  use 
of  administrative  resources,  vote-buying,  campaign-
related violence and hate speech in any shape or form, 
which  for  so  many  years  was  used  to  promote  hatred 
against ethnic and religious minorities.
Regrettably, not all actors in the Georgian political 
arena share those principles, and some are purposefully 
working  to  undermine  the  legitimacy  of  Georgia’s 
democratic  institutions  —  how  they  are  perceived  at 
home and by the international community.
Our  response  to  deliberate  attempts  to  short-
circuit  our  democracy  is  straightforward:  democratic, 
transparent  and  rule-of-law-based  processes  will  not 
be compromised. This is not only my demand; it is the 
demand of the people of Georgia.
A/67/PV.6
Georgia  is  a  young  democracy,  and  we  know  the 
value  that  comes  from  partnerships  and  engagement 
with  the  international  community.  As  in  the  past, 
we  have  once  again  opened  our  doors  and  invited 
credible  international  election  monitors  to  visit  our 
country,  including  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  European  Parliament,  the 
NATO  Parliamentary  Assembly,  the  United  States 
Congress and respected international non-governmental 
organizations.
To date, the interim reports of almost every election 
observation mission have consistently underscored that 
these  are  the  most  competitive  elections  in  Georgia’s 
history.  On  1  October,  notwithstanding  significant 
attempts  to  undermine  that  dynamic,  the  Georgian 
people  will  make  their  decision.  I  am  confident  that 
Georgian democracy will prevail and reject those who 
seek to close Georgia’s doors.
Georgian  democracy  will  prevail  if,  and  only  if, 
Georgian elections remain a Georgian process. Today, 
in  this  forum,  I  am  obliged  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  externally  generated  security  threats  to 
my  country.  The  European  Union  monitoring  mission 
has  just  announced  that  Russian  forces  are  currently 
undertaking  a  massive, 
illegal  military  buildup, 
occupying  territory  inside  Georgia,  on  the  former 
territory  of  South  Ossetia,  which  is  within  Georgia’s 
internationally recognized borders.
Even  as  we  speak,  they  are  bringing  offensive 
internationally 
inside  our 
weapons  and 
recognized borders.
troops 
The  Russian  military  has  made  the  extraordinary 
decision  to  hold  large-scale  military  exercises  in  the 
North  and  the  South  Caucasus  on  the  eve  and  around 
the  time  of  our  elections.  One  cannot  imagine  an 
approach  more  provocative  and  irresponsible  than 
that  of  mobilizing  military  forces  during  this  crucial 
moment of any nation’s democratic life.
There has been involvement by Russia for months: 
first, billions of dollars in Russian money came into the 
Georgian  election  campaign.  Lots  of  other  resources 
were allocated, and now Russian troops are trying to be 
some kind of background players in this process. That 
is why I call today on all our allies and friends, and all 
members  of  goodwill  in  the  international  community, 
not to ignore or dismiss this worrisome development.
12-52029
37
A/67/PV.6
I would like to use this opportunity to ask the world 
to  pay  attention  during  the  next  few  days,  to  speak  in 
a unified voice against these threats, in support of our 
sovereignty and democratic institutions.
and  most  international  organizations  call  illegally 
occupied  territories,  meaning  that  they  will  have  to 
withdraw  —  now  they  are  trying  to  undermine  us 
because they have a strong sense of unfinished business.
In short, the vigilance and engagement of Member 
States is required to ensure that history does not repeat 
itself and that 2012 does not become a repeat of 2008, or 
especially of 1921, when Russia ended our independence 
and we became a place that was dominated by violence 
and oppression for 70-plus years.
We  should  look  at  what  has  happened  in  recent 
years.  We  had  a  massive-scale  invasion  by  Russia, 
the  successor  to  the  Soviet  Union,  in  2008.  We  are  a 
country of just 4.7 million people — less than 5 million 
people  —  and  that  country  is  100  times  larger,  and 
well  armed.  If  we  look  at  history,  we  see  that  during 
the  twentieth  century  it  invaded  many  countries.  The 
Soviet Union invaded Baltic countries; it invaded large 
parts of Poland and ended its independence.
In 1956 the Soviet Union invaded Hungary, killed 
its  President  and  ended  its  independence.  In  1968  it 
invaded  Czechoslovakia,  deposed  its  Government  and 
ended  its  independence.  In  1979  it  invaded  a  much 
bigger  country  than  Georgia,  Afghanistan,  killed  its 
President within one hour and ended its independence. 
In 2008 it invaded our country, a smaller country than 
any of those I have mentioned, and occupied part of its 
territory. 
However, none of the strategic goals of the Russian 
invasion was achieved. They had three explicit goals in 
invading Georgia. The first was to depose the Georgian 
Government,  end  Georgian  democracy  and  physically 
destroy  Georgia’s  leadership.  Those  are  not  my  words 
or  a  conspiracy  theory.  That  is  what  they  themselves 
overtly  stated  in  every  open  and  closed  international 
forum. The second goal was to shut off the energy supply 
for different regions of the world and to monopolize the 
energy  supply  in  the  part  of  the  world  where  Russia 
lies.  That  totally  failed.  Georgia  is  developing  and  its 
energy  corridor  is  developing.  The  third  goal  was  to 
stop  the  enlargment  of  NATO  and  to  halt  any  kind  of 
inclusion of the region into international organizations. 
Russia also failed at that goal. 
We  often  say  that  after  the  Russians  failed  to 
physically  destroy  the  Georgian  leadership,  failed  to 
succeed  in  any  of  the  purposes  of  their  invasion  and 
basically  were  forced  to  stay  where  they  are,  within 
occupied  territories  —  in  what  most  of  the  world 
It  is  not  just  the  fate  of  a  small  country  of  less 
than  5  million  people  that  is  being  played  out  in  this 
scenario.  The  fate  of  the  whole  post-Soviet  space  is 
being played out, affecting 400 to 500 million people. 
Because  Russia  failed  to  destroy  Georgian  democracy 
in 2008, countries in Central Asia such as Ukraine and 
Belarus, people in the Republic of Moldova and Eastern 
Europe, all think that freedom is the right choice after 
all  and  that  even  the  smallest  free  country  cannot  be 
undermined and destroyed if it stands strong and united 
and if the international community is there to help. That 
sets a very bad example from the Russian point of view.
On  the  other  hand,  because  of  Georgia’s  reforms 
and  because  of  our  openness  to  the  great  nation  of 
Russia, we introduced visa-free travel for tourists from 
Russia.  One  million  tourists  will  travel  to  Georgia 
from Russia this year and they will take back 1 million 
stories  of  successful  development,  of  a  country  with 
new  hospitals,  with  new  cities,  with  sharply  reduced 
poverty — a country moving towards universal health 
coverage and that has enjoyed double-digit growth, and 
is this year enjoying 8 per cent growth. It is a country 
that,  even  without  oil  and  gas,  is  looking  much  better 
than most of the Russian region. Indeed, Russia’s then-
President  Medvedev  had  to  acknowledge  twice  in  one 
week,  in  an  open  forum  of  journalists  and  his  own 
parliament,  that  Georgian  reforms  were  so  successful 
that Russia had no choice but to study and copy them, 
even if they hate the Georgian leadership. 
That is the ideological issue. That is why they want 
us out. That is why they want Georgia off the map. It is 
because  if  Georgia  survives  and  if  Georgia  continues, 
it  sets  a  bad  example  for  all  the  others,  including  the 
Russian  people  themselves,  from  the  point  of  view  of 
the  present  Russian  Government.  The  prison  scandal 
we  had  recently  involved  things  that  happen  almost 
every day in Russia, and are reported on social media 
in Russia as frequently, and no one there gives a damn 
about it. In the first case that came up in Georgia, two 
ministers and scores of others were arrested, which also 
sets  a  bad  example  in  the  eyes  of  people  who  want  to 
suppress  freedom.  That  is  why  it  is  so  important  that 
Georgian democracy is back and safe. It means that the 
whole  post-Soviet  space,  our  whole  part  of  the  world, 
will move in the right direction.
38 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
I  call  on  the  world  to  pay  attention  and  send  the 
right  signals.  I  make  the  call  knowing  what  our 
responsibilities are. In the face of the threats confronting 
us, our commitment to democracy and transparency is 
more  important  than  ever.  We  remember  the  words  of 
the  American  founding  father  who  said  that  whoever 
sacrifices  his  freedom  for  security  deserves  neither. 
That is not just our response; it is the best response. Our 
transformation and the hostility it has generated among 
those who feel threatened by freedom have continued to 
make Georgia a test case for the entire region. What is at 
stake in Georgia today is the very idea that democracy 
can thrive in our part of the world.
Our common legacy from the dark time of the Soviet 
Union  is  now  almost  gone  from  Georgia.  Organized 
crime  —  and  Georgia  was  a  hotbed  of  organized 
crime  —  is  now  almost  gone  from  Georgia.  Most  of 
that  legacy  has  migrated  to  other  countries,  including 
Russia. Corruption, coercion, intimidation, oppression, 
cynicism and despair: we condemn that way of life, that 
way of Government and of being governed. No, we can, 
we  should  and  we  will  overcome  that  legacy.  We  are 
doing it in Georgia and it can be done everywhere else.
Will  we  face  strong  opposition?  Yes.  And  we  are 
well  placed  to  say  that,  since  our  country  is  regularly 
threatened  with  destruction  and  annihilation,  for  the 
very reason that we choose another path — the path of 
freedom,  the  path  of  transparency  and  accountability, 
the  path  of  meritocracy  and  an  open  society  —  we 
know how difficult it is to overcome those forces. But 
we know we can. 
Sovietism  and  post-Sovietism 
is  not  a  fate. 
Organized  crime  and  violence  is  not  a  fate.  Slavery 
is  not  a  fate.  Limited  sovereignty  as  Brezhnev  once 
defined  it  and  Putin  reshaped  it  is  not  a  fate.  Every 
country  represented  here  is  a  free  nation.  We  are  all 
free  peoples,  made  up  of  free  individuals,  and  our 
future depends on us, on what we want and what we do. 
There  is  nothing  easy  about  saying  this,  and  I  do 
not say it lightly. The Georgian people know the price 
of freedom and still they think their freedom is worth 
it,  because  with  freedom  comes  development  and 
happiness,  true  stability  and  true  peace.  Our  region 
will one day become a zone where free people interact 
peacefully,  where  respect  will  replace  contempt. 
All  the  peoples  of  Central  Asia  and  Eastern  Europe, 
Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  Russia,  the 
South Caucasus and North Caucasus, should hold hands 
together and shout down the voices of the past. Powerful 
voices  continue  to  send  the  message  that  democracy, 
transparency and accountability are not possible. They 
say  that  freedom,  meritocracy  and  respect  for  human 
rights are fundamentally alien. Georgia has proven them 
wrong. Our survival story has proven them wrong, just 
as many here today have in the past. As we have been 
learning from many people in the Hall, our efforts have 
shown  that  corruption,  intolerance,  intimidation,  fear 
and violence are neither cultural nor inevitable.
Advanced democracy is a sign of a mature society. 
It is not easy to govern. Dissent, pluralism and vibrant 
debate, which are threats to others, are strengths to us. 
Our  view  is  clear.  One  cannot  gain  enduring  stability 
at the expense of liberty, and one cannot ensure lasting 
prosperity by sacrificing individual rights. Those short 
cuts never succeed in the long run.
In every culture, in every society, in every corner 
of  the  world,  people  will  ultimately  demand  the  right 
to  choose  their  own  future.  Only  Governments  that 
meet  that  demand  will  achieve  true  stability.  The 
fundamental contract is not always without difficulties. 
Governments  that  commit  themselves  to  the  process 
must  be  prepared  for  turbulence  and  disagreement. 
What is difficult for elected leaders is often beneficial 
for  citizens;  what  is  challenging  for  ruling  parties  is 
often necessary for the State. In pursuing the goals of 
freedom  and  accountability,  our  common  efforts  must 
be  governed  by  the  rule  of  law  and  a  commitment  to 
respect  these  fundamental  principles.  Violence  and 
intimidation  can  never  be  legitimized,  and  a  minority 
can  never  forcibly  impose  its  views  on  the  will  of  the 
majority.  Guns,  money,  threats,  hatred,  blackmail  and 
fear cannot be allowed to hijack the process. 
At the same time, we recognize the potential threat 
of  a  majority  trampling  the  rights  and  liberties  of  a 
minority.  We  respond  to  that  threat  by  protecting  the 
right  to  dissent,  we  respond  by  promoting  pluralism, 
we  respond  by  allowing  every  voice  to  be  heard.  And 
we respond by the law. I can testify to how difficult the 
process  is,  but  I  can  also  state  unequivocally  that  no 
lasting alternative exists.
I  want  finally  to  share  with  the  Assembly  my 
hope  and  my  trust.  A  few  days  from  now,  Georgians 
from  all  social,  religious  and  ethnic  backgrounds  will 
collectively  decide  their  future  in  an  unoccupied  part 
of our territory. They will express diverse opinions and 
wishes,  and  a  new  future  for  our  nation  will  emerge. 
12-52029
39
A/67/PV.6
Openness will be further enshrined. Transparency will 
be strengthened, and public accountability confirmed. 
The main thing  that will be confirmed is that Georgia 
will  not  go  back.  It  will  not  be  dragged  back  under 
any  pressure,  under  any  dirty  money  from  the  North, 
under any threat of military exercise or direct military 
invasion or mass-scale disturbances or the emergence of 
some kind of militias emerge, as some have threatened. 
It is not going to work.
According to the European Union, we are the safest 
country  and  the  least  corrupt  country  in  Europe  with 
strong  Government  institutions  that  cannot  be  bribed 
and cannot be undermined. By constantly renewing the 
social contract, which is at the heart of every democratic 
nation,  we  will  ensure  that  democratic  principles  and 
practices are with us for good.
I trust the Georgian people. I trust the international 
community  and  I  trust  that  they  will  not  allow  others 
to  destroy  the  will  of  my  people  or  destroy  my  small 
nation’s  choice.  I  stated  earlier  that  democracy  is 
a  difficult,  sometimes  noisy  system.  It  presents 
challenges  to  those  in  and  outside  Government,  and  it 
forces leaders to place their trust in society. Personally, 
I see no credible alternative, and I saw no better reason 
to take risks. Fear is the paramount weapon of autocrats, 
while trust is a definition of democrats.
Let  us  all  trust  our  citizens,  even  if  autocratic 
forces  much  bigger  than  us  are  threatening  us.  The 
best  defence  for  my  country  is  openness,  democracy, 
transparency  and  the  work  of  institutions  against  all 
of  those  forces,  against  all  the  international  mafias 
and  against  social  and  international  pressures  that 
contravene 
the 
institutions  that  support,  strengthen  and  preserve  our 
choice to be open and free.
law.  Let  us  defend 
international 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President 
of the Dominican Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danilo 
Medina Sánchez, President of the Dominican Republic, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Medina Sánchez (spoke in Spanish): We 
warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session.
We are also pleased that the general debate of this 
session is devoted to considering, among other issues, 
the  promotion  of  sustained  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development  in  accordance  with  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions  and  recent  United 
Nations conferences. 
Since  we  adopted  the  Declaration  that  led  to  the 
Millenium  Development  Goals  (resolution  55/2),  the 
image  of  development  has  been  tied  to  the  reduction 
of  poverty  and  to  the  development  of  capacities  and 
opportunities  for  the  most  vulnerable  populations. 
The  majority  of  our  developing  countries  had  made 
significant  progress  in  this  area  until  2008,  when  the 
financial crisis, which affected the world economy and 
threatened to cancel out our achievements, began.
We  are  living  at  a  time  of  multiple  simultaneous 
crises.  The  ecological  crisis  threatens  the  majority  of 
our f lora and fauna. Global warming threatens coastal 
populations  and  small  island  countries.  Unchecked 
population  growth  threatens  to  exceed  the  capacity  of 
nature to restore itself. We have witnessed a crisis of the 
values that have traditionally governed the behaviour of 
humankind. War and armed conf lict threaten the right 
to  cultural,  ideological  and  political  diversity  and  our 
right to live in peace and unity.
Those  of  us  who  live  in  the  developing  countries 
did not cause the world financial crisis. As you know, 
the  crisis  was  caused  by  the  failure  to  use  effective 
regulations  in  the  international  financial  system  and 
by the arrogance, greed and unbridled desire to amass 
wealth.  In  the  context  of  the  crisis,  age-old  debates 
have  resurfaced  as  to  how  best  to  tackle  the  crisis. 
Should  we  reduce  investment  in  social  protections  for 
our populations? Or, on the contrary, should we bolster 
investment,  making  anti-cyclical  social  investment 
40 
12-52029
policies  into  a  springboard  for  reviving  economies? 
And how do we measure poverty and development and 
recognize  the  social  impact  of  the  measures  adopted? 
Do  we  use  average  income  indicators  for  reducing 
social inequality and improving quality of life?
The  countries  in  the  developing  world  whose 
economies have performed better and have shown less 
vulnerability in the context of the world crisis have been 
those  that  have  understood,  in  time,  that  investing  in 
training our peoples and improving the quality of life of 
our peoples is the best way to reduce our vulnerability 
and to maintain economic growth. The economy must 
serve the people, not the reverse.
In  the  debate  on  development,  we  must  reaffirm 
as  peoples  and  as  Government  leaders  that  we  have 
learned  quite  often  through  painful  experience  that 
equality  and  sustainability  are  key  prerequisites  for 
ensuring  sustained  and  sustainable  economic  growth. 
Today, we know that it is not enough to have economic 
growth  in  order  to  reduce  social  inequity  and  to 
improve the quality of life of our peoples. Nor is it right 
to  sacrifice  our  people  in  the  hope  that  the  growth  of 
an economy will ultimately lead to benefits for all and 
reduce  social  inequality.  That  expectation  quite  often 
remains unmet. On the contrary, experience has shown 
that  by  improving  the  quality  of  life  and  by  reducing 
poverty  and  social  exclusion,  we  can  help  stimulate 
healthy economic growth.
In 
the  context  of 
international  crisis  and 
uncertainty, we must reduce national and international 
social  inequalities.  We  must  increase  social  cohesion 
and  strengthen  democratic  governance.  We  also  know 
that economic growth, which does not take account of 
the limits of natural resources and the needs of future 
generations,  will  entail  the  risk  of  imminent  collapse. 
We must revise the ideas about development that have 
prevailed in the international financial system.
Equity  and  sustainability  are  two  sides  of  the 
same  coin,  and  that  is  how  we  must  approach  human 
development. That vision is consistent with international 
declarations  on  sustainable  development,  such  as  the 
Declarations issued by the United Nations Conference 
on  the  Human  Environment  in  Stockholm  in  1972,  by 
the  Rio  Earth  Summit  in  Rio  de  Janiero  in  1992,  and 
by  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Johannesburg in 2002. They promoted the three pillars 
of  sustainable  development:  environmental  equity, 
economic  equity  and  social  equity.  Development 
A/67/PV.6
means  protecting  environmental  systems,  raising  the 
productive capacity of goods and services and reducing 
social inequality by raising the quality of life of all men 
and women, multiplying capacities and opportunities.
Today, 7 billion people inhabit the Earth. Of those, 
43  per  cent,  or  3  billion,  are  under  the  age  of  25.  We 
must invest so that our young people have the skills and 
opportunities to tackle creatively the development tasks 
that face our societies. For many years, the development 
of countries has been assessed by international financial 
institutions,  using    measures  of  income  or  national 
production  expressed  per  capita  in  order  to  determine 
the  state  of  material  well-being.  Based  on  that  kind 
of  measure,  our  country,  the  Dominican  Republic, 
has  been  classified  in  recent  years  as  a  medium  high 
income country. 
Nonetheless, more than a third of our citizens live 
in poverty.  How then is it possible to exclude countries 
like ours from receiving development aid? By the same 
token, to give an international comparison, poverty has 
been measured in terms of income, with those families 
that subsist on less than $2 a day being defined as poor 
and those who live on less than $1.25 as extremely poor, 
an  adjustment  being  made  in  both  cases  for  buying 
power.
According  to  those  criteria,  over  2  billion  people 
worldwide — 33 per cent of humanity — are poor, and in 
2005 the number living in extreme poverty had dropped 
to 1.4 billion. Those same measures project that by 2015 
only 883 million will be living in extreme poverty. The 
optimism of those international figures does not appear 
to coincide with the perception of many of our citizens, 
who  feel  that  the  increase  in  gross  domestic  product 
does not ref lect their needs or despair, nor does it jibe 
with the unhappiness of our young people who, despite 
raising  their  educational  level,  are  still  unable  to  find 
dignified  work  or  the  opportunities  to  fulfil  their 
business aspirations.
That discrepancy between the optimism of certain 
international indicators and the discontent on our streets 
can be explained by the fact that we are using inadequate 
tools to measure poverty, development and well-being. 
At least in the Dominican Republic, it is hard to believe 
that the quality of life and the opportunities to improve 
it would be very different for a person with an income 
of $2 a day than for someone earning a few cents less. 
Poverty in a given family or community is much more 
than the lack of income with respect to a predetermined 
12-52029
41
A/67/PV.6
threshold, just as the development of a country is much 
more than the size of its median income. 
The International Labour Organization reported in 
2010  that  81  million  of  the  620  million  young  people 
between  the  ages  of  15  and  24  worldwide  who  were 
economically  active,  which  represents  13  per  cent 
of  that  age  group,  had  been  unemployed  during  the 
preceding  year,  primarily  due  to  the  world  economic 
and financial crisis.  Between 2007 and 2009, the global 
unemployment  rate  for  young  people  experienced  the 
greatest rise in its history: from  11.9 per cent to 13 per 
cent. Young women had a harder time than young men 
in finding work. 
The  results  in  terms  of  health,  education  and 
maternal  and  child  mortality  show  the  limits  of 
the  unilateral  and  optimistic  focus  on  poverty  and 
development. Not without reason have some academics 
said that 
“we  are  gambling  with  the  fate  of  our  planet  with 
‘games’  in  which  a  few  private  players  reap  the 
benefits  and  society  pays  the  consequences.  A 
system that permits results like those is destined to 
mismanage risk”.
Social  investment  in  the  education,  health  and 
employment of young people can build the foundation for 
a strong economic base that can halt the transmission of 
poverty from one generation to the next. Strengthening 
young people’s skills creates the conditions for them to 
earn  higher  income  during  their  productive  economic 
lives.  The  way  we  understand  and  measure  poverty 
translates 
international  policy 
decisions.
into  national  and 
To assume that poverty and underdevelopment are 
simply  the  expression  of  family  income  or  national 
averages has led to limited social policies of entitlement 
or transfers. Such policies temporarily raise the income 
of  impoverished  families  above  the  so-called  poverty 
line,  at  the  expense  of  developing  universal,  more 
effective and better-quality public service systems that 
would benefit, as a right, those who have traditionally 
been excluded.  
Adam  Smith,  the  father  of  economic  liberalism, 
included  in  his  definition  of  poverty  such  social  and 
cultural  aspects  as  “the  ability  to  go  about  without 
shame”.  More  recently,  the  Nobel  Prize  winner  in 
Economics  Amartya  Sen  spoke  of  development  itself 
as  freedom.  In  that  sense,  broadening  our  concept  of 
poverty to include measures of social participation and 
inclusion, as well as unmet basic needs, will allow us to 
develop more holistic and effective responses. Poverty 
is  a  multidimensional  phenomenon,  a  complex  system 
of problems that requires a systemic solution leading to 
broader skills, freedom and opportunities for those who 
have traditionally been excluded.
Investment in quality universal education and health 
systems,  a  universal  safety  net,  access  to  dignified 
work and living spaces, personal safety and the security 
of goods,  inter alia, are crucial elements for expanding 
the skills and opportunities of impoverished portions of 
the population. Poverty reduction is the basic lever for 
increasing the production of goods and services and for 
propelling  new  dynamics  of  growth  and  development.  
Assessing the development of countries exclusively on 
the  basis  of  their  national  per  capita  income  leads  to 
decisions that have a negative impact on our efforts at 
development.  When  a  country  is  ranked  according  to 
those  simple  criteria,  the  contribution  of  international 
cooperation  is  reduced  and  access  to  loans  from 
international  financial 
is  reduced  or 
becomes more expensive.
institutions 
As developing countries, we also need to shoulder 
our  share  of  responsibility.  Domestically,  we  need  to 
improve  our  information  systems  in  order  to  better 
understand  our  social,  land  and  gender  inequalities, 
as well the impact we have on the environment. At the 
same  time,  we  must  redirect  our  investment  patterns 
and  our public policies  to promote  equality  and  social 
inclusion  for  the  most  vulnerable  groups,  and  for  that 
we  need  the  support  of  the  international  community.. 
A country should not cease to receive development aid 
simply because its average national income has crossed 
a certain arbitrarily defined threshold. 
Latin  America  has  long  experience  with  the 
search  for    multidimensional  measures  of  poverty  and 
development.  Since  the  middle  of  the  last  century, 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  has  developed  a  methodology  based  on  an 
index  of  unmet  basic  needs.    Many  countries  have 
applied  such  composite  multidimensional  indexes.  In 
the Dominican Republic we use a quality of life index 
tailored to our reality.  The United Nations Development 
Programme has applied the human development index, 
and a number of other indexes have been proposed at the 
international level.  Despite that, the majority of bodies 
in  the  international  financial  system  continue  to  rely 
on  one-dimensional  measures  that  focus  on  monetary 
42 
12-52029
income to assess and categorize the development of our 
countries and to determine their policies  on the basis of 
criteria for international financial support.
We  wish  to  avail  ourselves  of  this  opportunity  to 
urge  international  financial  organizations  to  be  more 
ready  and  willing  to  embrace  our  efforts  to  break 
the  vicious  cycle  of  poverty  and  social  exclusion  as 
the  basis  for  development.  We  need  to  use  enhanced 
indicators  with  a  greater  capacity  to  capture  and 
measure the complex dynamics of human development. 
What is needed is for us to work together to overcome 
exclusion, not to prolong poverty and extreme poverty 
indefinitely.
reiterates 
its 
The  Dominican  Republic 
firm 
commitment  to  peace,  tolerance  and  international 
coexistence as well as to democracy and freedom as basic 
components for development. We hope that sustainable 
development will enrich the daily lives of individuals, 
families, communities and countries and will preserve 
our  natural  resources.  Peace,  the  abolishment  of 
social inequality, environmental sustainability and the 
sustained growth of our capacity to produce the goods 
and services required by our peoples go hand-in-hand, 
and they are the very core of development.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Dominican Republic for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 
Address by Mr. François Hollande, President of the 
French Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the French Republic.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  François 
Hollande,  President  of  the  French  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Hollande (spoke in French): This is the 
first time that I speak from this rostrum at the United 
A/67/PV.6
Nations.  It  is  a  very  moving  moment  for  me  because 
I  understand  what  the  United  Nations  represents,  for 
our world, and what it has represented historically. I am 
also aware of a sense of responsibility, because France 
is  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  and 
therefore  has  duties.  I  am  also  here  at  this  rostrum  to 
talk  about  values  that  do  not  belong  to  any  particular 
people,  are  not  owned  by  any  particular  continent 
and  are  not  the  privilege  of  any  particular  part  of  the 
population. 
I  am  here  to  talk  about  universal  values,  which 
France  has  always  proclaimed,  and  about  the  rights 
of  every  human  being,  wherever  they  live:  liberty, 
security  and  resistance  to  oppression.  Those  values 
and those rights are all too frequently held in contempt 
in our world, especially as we face three main threats, 
which  we  must  tackle  head-on.  The  first  is  the  threat 
of  fanaticism,  which  fuels  violence.  We  have  seen 
that yet again in recent days. The second is the global 
economy, which has been affected by a crisis and which 
perpetuates intolerable inequalities. The third threat is 
the disturbance in the climate system, which threatens 
the very survival of our planet. 
The mission of the United Nations is to tackle these 
challenges and to find strong and just responses to them 
together. These responses must be just because without 
justice, force is blind, and they must be strong because 
without strength, justice is powerless. 
I  am  also  here  to  express  France’s  confidence  in 
the United Nations. In recent years, we have been able 
together, to finally put an end to deadly conf licts, and 
we have been able to prevent confrontations. However, 
just  as  we  are  sending  out  100,000  Blue  Helmets  who 
act on our behalf — and I would like to pay tribute to 
them — because of divisions, the blocking of our own 
institutions and inertia, the United Nations has not been 
able to put an end to war, atrocities and attacks on the 
rights of peoples. 
I  would  therefore,  on  behalf  of  France,  draw  one 
conclusion that I would like to share with the Assembly. 
If we want to make our world safer, it is up to us to fully 
shoulder our responsibilities. How can we do so? 
First  of  all,  we  can  do  so  by  reforming  our  own 
Organization, the United Nations. The Security Council 
must better ref lect the realities of the world today. This 
is  why  I  would  once  again  recall  that  France  supports 
the  request  for  an  enlargement  of  the  Council  made 
by  Germany,  Japan,  India  and  Brazil.  But  we  are  also 
12-52029
43
A/67/PV.6
in  favour  of  an  increased  African  presence,  including 
among  the  permanent  members.  Having  a  seat  on  the 
Security Council is not a privilege justified by history, 
and it is not a matter of satisfying some ambition related 
to  economic  power.  No,  having  a  seat  on  the  Security 
Council means making the commitment to take action 
to promote peace in the world. Indeed, we must act and 
act together, but act quickly, because it is urgent. 
The most urgent situation is in Syria. The Assembly 
has several times denounced the massacres carried out 
by the Syrian regime, called for those responsible to be 
prosecuted  and  expressed  the  desire  for  a  democratic 
transition. But the ordeal of the population continues to 
this day. There have been almost 30,000 deaths in the 
last 18 months. How many more deaths will we wait for 
before we take action? How can we allow the paralysis 
of the United Nations to continue? 
I  know  one  thing  for  certain:  the  Syrian  regime 
will  never  again  take  its  place  among  the  alliance  of 
nations. It has no future among us. This is why I have 
taken the decision, on behalf of France, to recognize the 
provisional Government representing the new Syria as 
soon as it is formed. That Government will itself have 
to give guarantees that every community in Syria will 
be respected and will be able to live in security in their 
own  country.  Without  further  delay,  I  would  ask  that 
the United Nations immediately give the Syrian people 
all  of  the  assistance  and  support  they  are  requesting 
and, in particular, that the liberated areas be protected 
and  humanitarian  aid  be  assured  for  refugees.  As  for 
the  leaders  in  Damascus,  they  must  know  that  the 
international community will not stand by if they take 
the unhappy decision to use chemical weapons. 
Another situation that is urgent is the fight against 
the  most  serious  of  threats  to  stability  in  the  world, 
namely, the proliferation of nuclear weapons. For several 
years  now,  Iran  has  been  ignoring  the  demands  of  the 
international  community.  It  shuns  monitoring  by  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. It does not keep 
its word or uphold Security Council resolutions. I had 
hoped that negotiations could take place in earnest and 
that steps could be outlined, but, again, no negotiations 
have  taken  place.  France  will  not  accept  such  actions, 
which threaten not only security in the region but peace 
throughout the world. 
I therefore state once again that we are prepared to 
adopt new sanctions, not to punish the great people of 
Iran, but to tell their leaders that enough is enough and 
that negotiations must be resumed before it is too late.
The third urgent issue is at last to find a solution to 
the Israeli-Palestinian conf lict. The status quo is not a 
response; it is an impasse. France will make every effort 
to re-establish the basis for negotiations leading to the 
coexistence  of  the  two  States  in  question;  everyone 
knows that this is the only solution that could lead to a 
just and lasting peace in the region.
The  last  of  the  urgent  issues  that  I  will  mention, 
although  there  are  many  others,  might  be  the  most 
important one for us to focus on this week: the Sahel. 
The  situation  created  by  the  occupation  of  territory 
in  northern  Mali  by  terrorist  groups  is  intolerable, 
inadmissible  and  unacceptable.  It  is  unacceptable  not 
only for Mali, which is affected by that terrorist threat, 
but also for all countries of the region and beyond the 
region — all of those that one day might be affected by 
terrorism.
The  African  Union,  which  I  commend,  and  the 
Economic Community of West African States have said 
that  they  are  prepared  to  take  courageous  decisions. 
The authorities of Mali have spoken; there is no time to 
lose. France will support any initiative that will enable 
the Africans themselves to resolve that issue within the 
framework  of  international  law,  with  a  clear  mandate 
from  the  Security  Council.  Mali  must  recover  its 
territorial  integrity,  and  terrorism  must  be  eliminated 
from that area of the Sahel.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  respond  to 
urgent  situations.  But  there  is  another  objective  that 
should  unite  us  here,  and  that  is  development.  The 
United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and 
Development, held in Rio, in which I participated, was 
a disappointing stage for some and an encouraging one 
for others. I believe that today we have an agenda that 
should encompass economic growth, poverty reduction, 
social  progress  and  environmental  protection.  That  is 
what we need to do over the long term.
The  2015  deadline  for  a  climate  agreement  is  fast 
approaching. I wish to state here that France is ready to 
host the United Nations conference on climate change 
to  be  held  at  that  time,  because  I  want  us  to  succeed 
together in meeting that challenge.
In  parallel,  I  would  recall 
the 
disappointments  of  Rio  was  our  failure  to  agree  on 
the  creation  of  a  major  United  Nations  organization 
that  one  of 
44 
12-52029
for  the  environment.  That  remains  France’s  objective. 
Such  an  agency  would  be  based  in  Africa,  because 
that  continent,  which  has  been  neglected  for  too  long, 
is  facing  climate-related  challenges.  It  would  also  be 
highly  symbolic  to  entrust  Africa  with  such  a  global 
agency for the environment.
With  respect  to  development,  I  believe  that  we 
should face reality. We will not achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals  without  new  resources.  Everyone 
knows  the  budgetary  limitations  of  our  respective 
States. That is why today, from this rostrum here at the 
United Nations, I am making an appeal for innovative 
financing, which would give us the means to enable our 
organizations to fight effectively against diseases such 
as HIV/AIDS and malaria.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  success  of  the 
International  Drug  Purchase  Facility,  which  was 
financed  by  a  tax  on  airline  tickets.  That  path 
has  been  opened,  and  today  we  must  take  another 
step  in  that  direction.  I  propose  a  tax  on  financial 
transactions — which several European Union countries 
have  already  agreed  to  —  aimed  at  slowing  down  the 
movement of capital or at least financing development 
and  helping  to  fight  health-related  scourges.  France 
has  adopted  such  a  tax.  We  have  also  made  another 
commitment:  to  dedicate  at  least  10  per  cent  of  the 
benefits of that tax to development and to fight health-
related threats and pandemics.
That  is  the  message  that  I  wanted  to  send  to  the 
Assembly  today:  let  us  ensure  that  a  global  tax  on 
financial transactions can be levied and that the benefits 
it  yields  can  be  spent  on  development  and  fighting 
pandemics. That would be an excellent example of what 
I call the globalization of solidarity, and one of the best 
ideas that today’s world could implement.
But  the  mission  of  the  United  Nations  is  not  only 
to fight financial instability or ensure that development 
remains  at  the  centre  of  our  concerns:  it  is  to  work  to 
counter all forms of instability. I am thinking here about 
drug trafficking, a scourge that affects producing, transit 
and  consuming  countries.  To  combat  drug  traffickers, 
who  are  frequently  allied  with  terrorist  networks,  the 
United Nations must elaborate and implement a global 
strategy to fight against drugs.
Arms trafficking also poses a major threat. France 
is  firmly  committed  to  the  conclusion  of  a  universal 
arms trade treaty. What the United Nations must defend 
and promote is a worldview that is based on respect for 
A/67/PV.6
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms.  The  Arab  Spring 
showed that those values are universal and apply to all 
continents and countries.
I  want  to  welcome  the  events  that  took  place  in 
Tunisia,  in  Libya,  in  Egypt.  It  is  true  that  transitions 
are not always easy. There are risks, and setbacks can 
occur. Some may attempt, through violence, to reverse 
the progress made and the achievements gained. France 
will  call  on  the  new  political  authorities  emanating 
from democratic elections in those countries to wage an 
unrelenting  combat  against  complacency,  extremism, 
fanaticism,  hatred,  intolerance  and  violence,  whatever 
the provocation may be, because there can never be any 
justification for violence.
France  wants  to  set  an  example.  It  is  not  telling 
anyone  what  to  do;  that  is  simply  its  history  and  its 
message. We want to be an example in the promotion of 
fundamental freedoms. That is our combat, and we are 
honoured to wage it. That is why France will continue 
to fight to abolish the death penalty, to ensure women’s 
right  to  equality  and  dignity,  and  to  work  towards  the 
universal  decriminalization  of  homosexuality,  which 
cannot be viewed as a crime but must be recognized as 
an orientation. 
We  will  continue  to  fight  for  the  protection  of 
civilians. Moreover, I recall that the Assembly affirmed 
the  principle  that  all  States  have  the  responsibility  to 
ensure  the  security  of  their  civilians.  If  a  State  fails 
in  that  obligation,  it  is  up  to  us,  the  United  Nations, 
to use the means at its disposal to meet it in its place. 
Let  us  not  neglect  that  promise,  as  it  can  serve  us.  I 
am thinking, in particular, of what is happening in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo, where civilians are the 
main victims of clashes and where foreign interference 
must cease as soon as possible.
The President returned to the Chair.
Those  are  the  goals  that  France  will  support  and 
defend at the United Nations. France has confidence in 
the  United  Nations.  We  know  that  no  State,  however 
powerful,  can  deal  with  emergencies,  undertake  the 
fight for development or overcome all crises. No State 
can do that, but, on the contrary, if we act together, we 
will  live  up  to  our  responsibilities.  France  wants  the 
United Nations to be the centre and the framework for 
global  governance,  but  do  the  States  that  make  up  the 
Organization want that to be our purpose and goal? 
12-52029
45
A/67/PV.6
I say in all seriousness that when there is paralysis, 
inertia and inaction, injustice and intolerance find their 
place. What I would like members to understand is that 
we  must  act  in  order  to  shoulder  our  responsibilities 
and  to  deal  with  urgent  situations,  such  as  Syria, 
nuclear proliferation and the Sahel. We must also work 
for  another  world  that  is  based  on  development  and 
innovative  financing  and  for  the  fight  against  health 
crises. We must act, always and together. Let us live up 
to the mission entrusted to us and to the expectations of 
peoples. That is France’s message.  
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the French Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency  Mrs.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of  the 
Republic of Lithuania, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.
President Grybauskaitė: In the past few years, the 
number of conf licts in the world has again been on the 
increase.  That  causes  the  deaths  and  injuries  of,  and 
a  loss  of  shelter  for,  thousands  of  people.  It  leads  to 
a  delay  in  the  development  of  our  countries  and  the 
stagnation of regional and global economies.
Our common goal is to find ways to reduce tension, 
disagreement  and  conf lict  worldwide.  The  most 
important  challenge  in  that  respect  is  understanding 
the  root  causes  of  conf licts  and  concentrating  efforts 
on  prevention,  not  only  on  doing  away  with  the 
consequences.
I  want  to  draw  the  attention  of  Member  States 
to  one  specific  area  that  is  very  narrow  but  very 
important  —  energy.  Since  ancient 
the 
competition for natural resources has been the reason for 
times, 
very many conf licts. Energy resources are not equally 
distributed,  so  there  is  inequality  in  accessibility  to 
energy. The existing dependency on energy remains a 
reason  for  abuse,  not  cooperation.  A  lack  of  clear  and 
globally accepted rules and norms in the energy sector 
contributes to continuing tensions.
Recurring  gas  and  oil  supply  crises  every  year 
remind  us  that,  in  a  global  environment,  friction  and 
disagreements  over  energy  still  lead  to  conf licts  and 
tensions of all sorts. Being a small country, without its 
own resources, especially sources of energy, Lithuania 
is  well  aware  of  the  negative  consequences  of  energy 
dependency  in  an  environment  that  has  no  universal 
agreement  on  or  compliance  with  clear  rules  of  the 
game. What can we do?
to 
First,  we  need 
increase  global  energy 
sustainability.  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  Sustainable  Energy  for 
All  initiative,  which  is  really  relevant  and  timely.  The 
improvement  of  energy  efficiency,  the  diversification 
of the energy supply and global accessibility to energy 
are certainly the goals for which we should strive.
Secondly, we need to make existing inequalities in 
access  to  energy  a  source  of  cooperation,  not  tension. 
The  use  of  energy  dependency  as  an  instrument  for 
political  or  economic  blackmail  must  be  eliminated, 
not only to ensure equality but also to increase global 
competiveness  and  effectiveness.  With  the  ongoing 
practices  of  price-fixing  and  abuse  of  monopolistic 
positions, which both distort competition, there can be 
no development, security or effectiveness.
Thirdly,  our  answer  to  energy-related  conf lict 
prevention  should  be  international  agreements  that 
make clear that the use of energy to gain political goals is 
unacceptable. Responsibility for violations should also 
be clear and unavoidable. We must grant international 
institutions  greater  discretion  to  launch  investigations 
and  to  impose  sanctions  on  activities  that  hinder  the 
free  f low  of  energy  resources,  impede  diversification 
or set unfair prices for customers.
I  have  one  final  point.  There  is  no  energy-
related  issue  as  dangerous  as  unsafe  nuclear  energy 
development. It is obvious that each country can decide 
on its own energy mix. However, each national decision 
to  develop  nuclear  energy  can  have  a  devastating  and 
transboundary  impact,  and  should  be  extremely  well 
grounded and researched. There can be no sustainability, 
development  or  peaceful  cooperation  without  nuclear 
46 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
safety. Mistakes in nuclear energy are too costly to be 
allowed. 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
In  that  respect,  we  welcome  the  actions  taken  by 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  improve 
the  existing  system  of  international  nuclear  safety 
regulations. Lithuania supports the position that nuclear 
safety standards should be strengthened and, if needed, 
legal international imperatives should be adopted. The 
2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit clearly indicated 
that  nuclear  security  and  nuclear  safety  measures 
should  be  drawn  up,  implemented  and  managed  in  a 
coherent  manner,  as  they  both  have  a  common  aim  to 
protect the people and their environment. Keeping the 
commitment that it assumed at the Summit, my country 
has  contributed  to  international  efforts  to  increase 
global  awareness  of  existing  energy  insecurities  and 
ways  to  prevent  them  by  establishing  the  Nuclear 
Security Centre of Excellence in Lithuania.
In  order  to  tackle  the  causes  of  conf licts,  not  just 
the  consequences,  we  have  to  be  honest  players.  We 
must honestly define the problems; speak openly about 
their reasons; be clear and precise in naming the rules 
of  the  game;  and,  last  but  not  least,  find  in  ourselves 
the political will to play according to the rules globally, 
especially once agreed upon.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Lithuania 
for the statement she has just made.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Address by Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of 
the Republic of Honduras
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Honduras.
Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of the Republic 
of  Honduras,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Porfirio  Lobo  Sosa, 
President  Lobo  Sosa  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
always, it is an honour to participate in this Assembly 
of the peoples of the world, which pursues the ongoing 
struggle,  among  others,  for  the  universal  principles 
upheld since 1948. It is here and at this time that we can 
see  that  we  are  different,  precisely  in  this  Assembly, 
which  ref lects  the  wealth  of  our  diversity.  It  is  here 
where  we  work  constantly  to  overcome  our  natural 
differences,  respond  to  our  common  problems  and 
strengthen the human family through agreed outcomes. 
The  international  community  must  be  consistent 
in that objective. We must be partners and allies at all 
times,  ready  to  put  forward  initiatives,  solutions  and 
reforms that strengthen the need for close cooperation 
in  the  joint  responsibility  to  protect  not  only  the  right 
to that diversity, but also the right to demonstrate it and 
to fully live it. All must participate in this forum, with 
no sister nation excluded or not invited. We are called 
upon  to  ensure  the  full  recognition  of  each  and  every 
one, with complete security for all. 
In Honduras, for some years we have acknowledged 
in  all  areas  the  need  for  a  reform  process  that 
ensures  respect  for  people’s  rights.  Our  first  action, 
in  accordance  with  our  national  law,  was  to  invite 
regional  and  international  organizations  to  come  to 
Honduras  and  see  our  proposals  and  our  work.  We 
have set up a unit to investigate crimes against sexual 
diversity  —  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and  transgender  —  
under  the  Office  of  the  Public  Prosecutor.  It  focuses 
its  attention  on  vulnerable  groups  and  on  furthering 
dialogue with the broader civil society.
On gender issues, the Honduran State has a policy 
gender  progamme,  which  is  a  technical  and  political 
tool to help women achieve full equality and fairness. 
My Government supports a 40-per-cent share of women 
in  elected  posts  in  the  2013  electoral  campaign  and  a 
50-per  cent  participation  in  the  following  election  in 
2017.  In  April,  the  National  Congress  of  the  Republic 
adopted a law against trafficking in persons. That is a 
measure  of  compliance  by  the  State  of  Honduras  with 
important  recommendations  on  trafficking  in  persons 
drawn up by international human rights bodies.
As  we  continue  our  fight  for  indigenous  peoples, 
another  essential  part  of  our  national  plan  and  vision 
for the country is to put an end to the exclusion of such 
peoples  and  those  of  African  descent  and  to  ensure 
12-52029
47
A/67/PV.6
their full and legitimate right to preserve their culture, 
language, traditions and world view. I am accompanied 
at  this  Assembly by  a  representation  of  all  indigenous 
peoples in Honduras. Last year, we held the first World 
Summit  for  People  of  African  Descent  in  Honduras. 
Next year, we will hold a world summit on indigenous 
peoples.
Today’s world presents a range of new threats to our 
countries that are not traditional in form and that have 
created  new  dynamics.  I  am  referring  to  the  activities 
of  transnational  criminal  organizations.  According  to 
research centres that track illicit economic activity, it is 
estimated that those groups now account for 10 per cent 
of  the  global  gross  domestic  product.  Those  activities 
include  money-laundering,  bribes,  drug  trafficking, 
counterfeit, piracy and illicit trafficking in persons and 
weapons.
That  astounding  amount  of  financial  resources 
dangerously corrupts our societies and Governments. In 
my view, it has become a threat to international security 
that  must  be  assessed,  understood  and  fought  against 
by all members of the United Nations. My country and 
our  citizens  are  victims  of  the  insatiable  appetite  for 
drugs  in  developed  countries  and  of  the  greed  of  the 
producers  and  traffickers,  who  become  rich  on  huge 
profits stained with the blood of the innocent. Honduras 
is  neither  a  consumer  or  producer  country.  Moreover, 
the  traffickers  come  from  the  south  and  the  north  but 
those  who  die  are  Honduran.  The  mothers  who  suffer 
are Honduran, as are the orphans. 
However, Honduras is not unaware of the problem. 
Despite  our  limited  economic  resources,  we  are 
facing  such  challenges  with  the  necessary  resolve 
to  find  comprehensive  and  immediate  solutions  to 
that  situation.  Our  primary  objective  is  to  defend  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of our territory in 
the face of the aggression of which we are victims. To 
that end, by every means possible we must stop drugs 
from  entering  our  country  and  ensure  a  complete 
prohibition  of  those  that  enter  our  national  territory. 
We  have  therefore  updated  the  regulatory  framework 
and are reforming our institutions and security system.
As violence and crime threaten our young people, 
we  have  launched  prevention  programmes  that  can 
open  up  better  horizons  and  opportunities.  Legal 
and  institutional  reform  and  the  implementation  of 
programmes  and  projects  to  stop  the  violence  have 
started to yield results. The most recent figures of the 
independent Violence Watch in Honduras show that the 
rate  of  homicides  has  fallen  by  8.5  per  cent  this  year.  
That figure, added to the 10-per cent drop in the annual 
increase just recorded, represents a total reduction in the 
homicide rate of 18.5 per cent per 100,000 inhabitants.
However, it is not only up to us victims to make an 
effort. As was made clear at the Summit of the Americas 
and at the recent General Assembly of the Organization 
of  American  States,  combating  organized  crime,  in 
particular  illicit  drug  trafficking  and  related  criminal 
activities,  is  a  common,  shared,  but  differentiated 
responsibility.
At  this  great  Assembly,  I  wish  to  underscore  the 
resolute  cooperation  of  Colombia  and  Chile  and  the 
recent  memorandum  of  understanding  signed  between 
Honduras  and  the  United  States  of  America.  We 
also  welcome  the  most  recent  measures  taken  by  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela on the issue of f light 
bans. 
With regard to Colombia, allow me to congratulate 
its  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón  and  his 
Government on his initiative to put an end to 50 years 
of  war  among  brothers.  We  commend  the  Fuerzas 
Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia  for 
their 
receptiveness. We also welcome the cooperation of the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  Chile,  Cuba  and 
Norway.  We  wish  them  every  success  and  hope  that 
peace will return to that country. 
I would also like to thank the United Nations Office 
on Drugs and Crime for its full support and recognition 
of the fact that we in Central America cannot face such 
scourges alone. We must seek every mechanism and try 
to be as creative as possible in dealing with that threat.
With  greater  respect  for  human  rights  and  more 
citizen security, we will have more and better education. 
Honduras  has  therefore  launched  a  significant  reform 
process.  The  National  Congress  has  adopted  laws  to 
bolster education and to ensure the participation of the 
family and the community. Our focus and key objective 
are to provide a sound foundation for our children and 
our youth. We support the right of teachers to disagree 
and,  on  occasion,  to  demonstrate,  but  the  rights  of 
children  and  young  people  to  the  education  that  they 
receive  in  their  classrooms  cannot  be  allowed  to  be 
interrupted.
Look  at  what  is  happening  to  us,  according  to 
UNICEF data. In Honduras, approximately 600 teaching 
48 
12-52029
days have been lost in State schools and colleges in the 
past  10  years.  That  data  is  equivalent  to  three  school 
years of 200 days. That means that a boy or a girl who 
has completed ninth grade in their studies has, in fact, 
only  received  a  sixth-grade  education.  Clearly,  that  is 
a  step  backwards  for  society  in  general.  According  to 
figures from the Department of Education, in 2009, 80 
school  days  were  lost,  in  2010,  30  days  and,  in  2011, 
40 days. All those days correspond to calls for massive 
teacher walk-outs. According to a study of the National 
Independent  University  of  Honduras,  the  country’s 
principal  university,  of  the  top  100  colleges,  that 
leading State college is ranked in seventeenth position. 
What an injustice.
It  is  our  poorest  children  and  young  people,  those 
who  cannot  afford  private  education,  who  go  to  State 
schools. We are condemning them to remain victims of 
the most serious exclusion. Those who most need them 
are denied opportunities. Why do we not declare in this 
Assembly of peoples that classrooms are sanctuaries of 
education and must never be closed?
We  must  continue  our  efforts  to  ensure  greater 
access  for  the  poor  to  the  productive  sectors  of  the 
national  economy.  Rapid,  fair  and  sustainable  growth 
is the true productive development of the country and, 
along  with  education  and  health  care,  the  best  way  to 
reduce poverty and extreme poverty.
From the Office of the President and the First Lady, 
who  is  here  with  me  at  the  Assembly,  among  others, 
we  are  working  on  a  very  important  conditional  cash 
transfer programme. It currently reaches 30 per cent of 
our  poor  families.  That  is  an  immediate  and  specific 
response to social exclusion.
Our  geographic  location  makes  Honduras  one  of 
the countries most vulnerable to climate change. Along 
with  our  socio-economic  characteristics,  that  compels 
us, both nationally and regionally, to remain constantly 
vigilant  in  order  to  respond  to  natural  threats  and 
disasters. That is why we deem it key to participate in 
all specialized forums, in particular the United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. 
Today  and  now,  in  this  Hall,  Honduras  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  the  international  community  to  the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
That will help to strengthen the principle of universality 
on  the  basis  of  just,  fair  and  inclusive  representation. 
The  challenge  is  for  us  all  and  our  commitment  is 
universal. That is why we are gathered here now.
A/67/PV.6
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Honduras  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of the Republic 
of  Honduras,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Namibia.
the 
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
Republic of Namibia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hifikepunye 
Pohamba, President of the Republic of Namibia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Pohamba: I extend warm congratulations 
to Mr. Jeremić and his country, Serbia, on his election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh session. My delegation is confident that, under 
his  leadership,  this  session  will  address  all  burning 
issues  on  its  agenda.  I  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s 
cooperation  and  support.  I  also  wish  to  thank  his 
predecessor for presiding over the General Assembly at 
its sixty-sixth session. Similarly, I wish to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  assuming  his 
second mandate as Secretary-General at the beginning 
of this year.
The unresolved conf licts around the world demand 
commitment  and  resolve  from  us  all  in  order  to  find 
durable  solutions.  I  therefore  commend  the  President 
for  choosing  the  theme  for  the  debate  at  this  session, 
namely,  “Adjustment  or  settlement  of  international 
disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful  means”.  Namibia 
firmly  believes  that,  if  we  all  dedicate  ourselves  to 
finding  lasting  solutions  to  conf licts  by  peaceful 
means, our collective efforts will be successful. There 
is no better way to achieve peace than by upholding the 
cardinal principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
as provided for under Chapter VI of the United Nations 
Charter.
12-52029
49
A/67/PV.6
In  that  regard,  we  should  renew  the  original 
commitment to peace and progress as essential values 
of the United Nations. Namibia believes that respect for 
the sovereign equality of States, territorial integrity and 
independence constitute the pillars of international law 
and,  indeed,  the  bedrock  of  peaceful  relations  among 
nations. The violation of any of those principles poses a 
serious threat to international peace and security.
Namibia  resolutely  rejects  the  secessionist  attempts 
in  northern  Mali  and  the  destruction  of  ancient 
shrines  in  Timbuktu.  We  wish  to  commend  the  role 
played  by  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS)  in  helping  to  resolve  the  conf licts 
in  those  two  countries.  At  the  same  time,  we  urge 
the  international  community  to  provide  support  and 
assistance to ECOWAS.
Regional  and 
subregional  organizations  are 
important  partners  in  solving  conf licts  in  affected 
areas  throughout  the  world.  Their  contribution  to 
conf lict  resolution  is  provided  for  under  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  There  is  therefore  a  compelling  need 
for  the  United  Nations  to  take  into  account  the  views 
of  regional  organizations  in  the  areas  of  mediation 
and  peacemaking.  Such  institutions  should  be  fully 
supported  in  finding  lasting  solutions  to  violent 
conf licts around the world.
In  Africa,  since  its  inception,  the  African  Union 
Peace  and  Security  Council  has  cooperated  with  the 
United Nations Security Council towards those shared 
goals  of  conf lict  resolution.  Similarly,  the  subregion 
of the Southern African Development Community has 
established  initiatives  to  resolve  political  conf licts  in 
the region through mediation. 
However, we are concerned about the deteriorating 
security situation in the eastern Democratic Republic of 
Congo. We therefore urge the international community 
to  support  the  regional  initiative  aimed  at  resolving 
that conf lict and to provide humanitarian assistance to 
displaced persons. We call on all neighbouring countries 
to work together with the Congolese authorities to help 
resolve the conf lict and to ensure that the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo is not violated.
In  Madagascar,  we  urge  the  Malagasy  political 
actors  to  expedite  the  full  implementation  of  the  road 
map  leading  to  the  holding  of  free,  fair,  inclusive  and 
credible elections.
With regard to the Sudan and South Sudan, Namibia 
calls  on  the  two  countries  to  resolve  all  outstanding 
issues peacefully. In the Darfur region of the Sudan, we 
urge the Government and the other parties concerned to 
find a negotiated and peaceful solution to the conf lict.
We  denounce  the  unconstitutional  changes  of 
Government in Mali and Guinea-Bissau that took place, 
respectively,  in  March  and  April  this  year.  Equally, 
Namibia  welcomes  the  recent  positive  political 
developments in Somalia, including the election of His 
Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud  as  President 
of  that  country.  I  congratulate  him  and  wish  him  well 
in  the  noble  task  of  bringing  normalcy  and  stability 
to  that  sister  country.  The  international  community 
should  continue  to  support  the  people  of  Somalia  as 
they embark upon the path to rebuild their country.
For many decades, the people of Western Sahara have 
been denied their inalienable right to self-determination 
and  independence.  Namibia  reiterates  its  call  for  the 
immediate  and  unconditional  implementation  of  the 
United Nations Settlement Plan, leading to the holding 
of a free and fair referendum in Western Sahara.
Equally,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  our  unequivocal 
support  for  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people to self-determination and national independence 
on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions.
Each  year  during  the  general  debate,  the  majority 
of States Members of the United Nations express their 
concern  over  the  continued  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  unilaterally  imposed  against 
the  Republic  of  Cuba,  with  its  adverse  effect  on  the 
Cuban people. Thus, Namibia reiterates its call for the 
immediate  and  unconditional  lifting  of  the  embargo 
against Cuba.
Namibia  attaches  great  importance  to  sustainable 
development  and  the  search  for  the  best  ways  to 
mitigate  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change.  In  that 
regard, we will continue to actively cooperate with the 
international community to address climate change.
In  that  context,  Namibia  seeks  the  support  of 
Member  States  in  hosting  the  secretariat  of  the 
Green  Climate  Fund  in  our  capital  city,  Windhoek  If 
successful,  that  would  provide  an  opportunity  for  a 
developing  country  to  host  a  United  Nations  agency 
of  great  importance.  Given  the  opportunity,  Namibia 
stands  ready  to  discharge  its  obligations  arising  from 
50 
12-52029
A/67/PV.6
hosting the Green Climate Fund secretariat. We count 
on Member States’ support.
The reform of the United Nations and its principal 
organs  should  seek  to  strengthen  the  Organization  in 
order to make it more efficient, effective and responsive 
to  the  needs  of  all  its  Members.  In  that  context, 
strengthening  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  of  paramount  importance.  Equally,  the 
reform of the Security Council is at the core of the wider 
United Nations reform, given its primary responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
Namibia reiterates its support for the common African 
position on the reform of the Security Council.
Let  us  rededicate  ourselves  to  the  principle  of  the 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means 
in  order  to  save  current  and  succeeding  generations 
from the scourge of war and build a prosperous future 
for our children.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Namibia for the statement just made.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m.
12-52029
51
