United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
16th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 September 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.16
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Touray (Sierra 
Leone), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Zoran Milanović, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Croatia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Croatia.
Mr.  Zoran  Milanović,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Zoran Milanović, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Milanović  (Croatia):  I  am  pleased  to  address 
the  Assembly  for  the  first  time  since  assuming  the 
office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 
We  live  in  times  of  rapid  changes,  some  of  which 
are  positive,  others  deeply  troubling.  The  world  is 
becoming  more  interconnected,  which  strengthens 
economic  opportunities  and  accelerates  development. 
Advances  in  science  and  technology  are  bringing 
measurable  progress  for  humankind.  The  profound 
transformations in North Africa have raised the hopes 
of people for real democracy and freedom. 
However,  there  is  also  much  that  is  disturbing. 
Conflicts  in  many  parts  of  the  world  are  wreaking 
havoc on innocent civilians. Our planet is experiencing 
growing environmental damage. The global financial 
and  economic  crisis  is  still  negatively  affecting  the 
majority  of  countries  in  both  the  developing  and  the 
developed  world.  International  peace  and  security 
are  under  strain  from  terrorism,  extremism,  poverty, 
inequality, human rights abuses and persecution.
In confronting such challenges, Croatia acts in the 
global  arena  on  the  basis  of  two  fundamental  tenets. 
We  stand  ready  to  assume  our  responsibility  towards 
our  own  citizens  and  our  neighbours  in  the  region 
and to be a constructive actor in Europe and a reliable 
partner to all peace-loving countries in the world. We 
actively  promote  solidarity  with  vulnerable  groups 
and  communities  and  with  the  poor,  the  needy,  the 
defenceless  and  the  underprivileged.  Responsibility 
and  solidarity  are  two  central  principles  of  our 
engagement  in  the  United  Nations  in  the  pursuit  of 
peace  and  security  and  in  advancing  freedom  and 
democracy,  protecting  human 
rights,  enhancing 
sustainable development, respecting international law, 
ensuring equality and social justice and promoting the 
rule of law.
This year, Croatia marks the twentieth anniversary 
of its membership of our global Organization. We are 
grateful to the United Nations for playing an important 
role in our country’s struggle for political independence, 
international recognition and full territorial integrity. 
We  have  great  expectations  of  the  United  Nations. 
As  a  beacon  of  multilateralism,  it  provides  the  only 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52402 (E)
*1252402*
A/67/PV.16
universal  framework  for  finding  common  solutions  to 
international  crises  and  current  challenges.  However, 
we must ask ourselves whether the United Nations does 
enough and what we can do collectively to improve its 
performance.
At this juncture, I must strongly condemn the recent 
killing of the United States Ambassador to Libya. People 
come from different cultures, legal traditions, historical 
backgrounds  and  forms  of  Government.  Violence  can 
never be an acceptable response to freedom of speech.
We  support  the  United  Nations  reform  process, 
which  seeks  to  enhance  its  accountability,  efficiency, 
effectiveness and transparency. United, we are stronger 
than alone. But let me stress something. If each of our 
countries  becomes  more  democratic,  more  developed, 
better  run,  more  stable  and  more  responsible,  our 
combined strength will rise exponentially.
The topic of the general debate, namely, resolving 
international disputes by peaceful means, is at the very 
heart of the United Nations. The Organization was built 
to prevent war and to keep the peace. We highly value 
the instruments of preventive diplomacy and mediation 
and  other  peaceful  means  of  resolving  disputes.  In 
particular, we see merit in resorting to the International 
Court  of  Justice,  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration 
and  other  existing  institutions.  We  ourselves  have 
done so. We agreed to settle the border issue with our 
neighbour, Slovenia, through arbitration. 
However, we must understand that, in the long run, 
peace cannot be imposed on parties to a dispute. Each 
situation  has  its  own  pace  and  dynamics.  However, 
there should be no excuse for a lack of genuine effort. 
Moreover,  without  a  thorough  resolution  of  issues, 
there can be no room for a true reconciliation process 
to take place. In that vein, it is reassuring to note that 
support  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  comes 
from many parts of the world, including countries that 
have opted to use military means to settle disputes with 
their immediate neighbours in the recent past.
Not  everyone,  however,  shares  equal  respect 
for  peace  and  international  law.  This  year  has  been 
particularly  unfortunate  in  terms  of  the  efficiency  of 
the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention, 
mediation  and  the  protection  of  civilians.  We  have 
witnessed  appalling  events,  and  thousands  of  civilian 
victims  have  been  exposed  to  heavy  arms  and  the 
brutality  of  armed  forces  and  paramilitary  groups. 
The  lack  of  univocal  action  against  the  most  severe 
violations  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  is  deeply 
troubling. We must resolutely counter such an obsession 
with violence and repression. We should not shy away 
from our responsibilities. 
I  stress 
Like  many  previous  speakers, 
the 
importance  of  keeping  strong  international  attention 
on  Syria.  We  align  ourselves  with  the  position  of  the 
European  Union  on  the  situation  in  Syria.  We  see  the 
need  for  prompt  action  on  two  fronts.  The  immediate 
priority  is  to  stop  the  loss  of  life  on  both  sides  in  the 
conflict, to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to 
the Syrian people and to support plans for the country’s 
economic  and  political  stabilization.  Further  fighting 
and militarization will only exacerbate the suffering and 
make a peaceful resolution of the crisis more difficult. 
In addition, we have to remain committed to pursuing 
a  Syrian-led  political  transition  that  will  meet  the 
democratic aspirations of the Syrian people. Resolving 
the  crisis  is  our  common  responsibility.  We  therefore 
call  unceasingly  for  the  full  respect  of  international 
law, especially international humanitarian law, human 
rights and refugee law. 
There  is  no  peace  without  justice  and  there  is  no 
justice  without  the  rule  of  law  and  without  the  fight 
against  impunity.  We  support  concepts  of  human 
security  and  the  responsibility  to  protect,  as  well  as 
their  implementation  and  improvement  through  an 
open  and  constructive  dialogue  within  the  framework 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  also  support  the  work  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Undoubtedly,  there 
are sufficient conflict prevention tools at our disposal. 
The  question  remains  whether  we  can  muster  enough 
resolve to use them.
Syria is the most recent and most striking example 
of the need for a greater role for preventive diplomacy 
and mediation in the early phases of a conflict. The later 
we engage, the more divided we are. Timely prevention 
is crucial for successful conflict resolution. Prevention 
is  also  indispensable  for  countering  other  threats  that 
destabilize  countries  and  societies.  Let  me  cite  an 
example.  If  a  country  is  forced  to  fight  corruption 
through  its  law  enforcement  bodies  and  the  judiciary, 
that is usually a sign that it is too late, that corruption has 
already left its corrosive imprint on society. Our goal is 
to  invest  efforts  aimed  at  building  a  society  in  which 
corruption  is  not  an  endemic  phenomenon,  in  which 
elected officials in Government structures demonstrate 
responsibility towards their public office. That in turn 
2 
12-52402
encourages citizens to foster a corruption-free culture 
through  their  daily  behaviour.  When  leaders  lead  by 
positive example, people tend to follow. That is because 
culture  flows  from  structure.  That  is  also  the  reason 
why, at the level of the United Nations, we provide our 
full  support  to  the  implementation,  wider  acceptance 
and universalization of international legal instruments 
on  non-proliferation,  arms  control  and  disarmament, 
countering terrorism and preventing corruption. 
The  global  economic  crisis  combined  with  the 
effects  of  globalization  has  contributed  to  the  rise 
of  popular  distrust  in  the  capability  of  political 
leaders  to  deliver  needed  solutions.  That  calls  for 
greater  responsibility,  better  governance  and  stronger 
cooperation among States, civil society and the private 
sector.  The  Croatian  Government  has  made  notable 
progress  in  making  its  work  more  transparent  and 
more  available  to  its  citizens.  As  a  member  of  the 
Open  Government  Partnership  initiative,  we  have 
become  active  in  the  fields  of  fiscal  transparency, 
access  to  information,  information  technology  and 
civil  society  participation.  We  are  pleased  to  host  the 
Second European Outreach and Support Meeting of the 
Initiative on 4 and 5 October in Dubrovnik, where we 
expect to see the sharing of best practices and further 
promotion  of  cooperation  between  Governments  and 
civil society organizations.
Croatia has undergone an extensive but successful 
political,  economic  and  social  transition  in  a  fairly 
short  period  of  time.  For  that  reason,  we  have  a 
special understanding and first-hand experience of the 
interwoven nature of peace, security, development and 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  Today 
we  are  sharing  our  knowledge  and  experiences  with 
countries in the region of South-Eastern Europe and with 
countries emerging from crises, where our post-conflict 
understanding  in  nation-  and  institution-building  is 
particularly relevant. 
Croatia 
is  currently  a  Vice-Chair  of 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  My  country  stands  ready 
to assume its responsibility for creating more relevant, 
better-performing and more empowered peacebuilding 
structures.  Croatia  has  already  joined  the  Civilian 
Capacity  Project’s  CAPMATCH  initiative  designed  to 
address the State-building needs of fragile and conflict-
affected countries by offering our help in various fields 
of expertise gained through our own political transition, 
post-conflict 
rehabilitation  and  unique  European 
Union  accession  process.  Promotion  and  protection 
A/67/PV.16
of  human  rights  at  the  universal  level  remains  one  of 
the  cornerstones  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the  world.  Further  development  of  the  capacity  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  is  of  the  utmost  importance 
if  we  are  to  address  seriously  and  efficiently  urgent 
human rights situations and crises. 
We give special attention to continually improving 
the degree of respect accorded the fundamental human 
rights  of  women  and  girls  in  different  post-conflict 
societies.  Women  and  children  do  not  have  armies  to 
protect them or trade unions to negotiate on their behalf. 
Yet, more and more women are becoming the primary 
breadwinners  in  their  families.  The  empowerment  of 
women and their full and equal participation in societies 
are  prerequisites  for  security,  economic  opportunity, 
effective  governance  and  social  development.  Croatia 
will  also  continue  with  its  active  contribution  to  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights  forums, 
in  particular  safeguarding  the  rights  of  vulnerable 
members of society, such as lesbian, bisexual, gay and 
transgendered  persons,  promoting  the  moratorium 
on  the  use  of  death  penalty  and  ensuring  the  right  to 
conscientious objection to military service.
interconnected 
In  times  of  economic  uncertainty,  be  it  due  to 
financial  crisis  or  long-term  poverty,  some  tend 
to  downplay  the  importance  of  human  rights  or  of 
consolidating democracy. Every day we witness the sad 
realities of starving children, deaths from preventable 
communicable  diseases,  inadequate  education  and 
health systems, and the continuous degradation of the 
ecosystem. Challenges we are facing require integrated 
solutions  across 
the 
further  strengthening  of  the  multilateral  architecture. 
We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development and encourage 
its  follow-up  process.  We  look  forward  to  more 
energetic  work  on  the  implementation  of  sustainable 
development goals, which should complement existing 
commitments  and  encompass  all  three  dimensions 
of  sustainable  development  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental  —  in  a  balanced  and  synergistic  way. 
Croatia  sees  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its 
subsidiary bodies as a cornerstone for the achievement 
of balanced integration of sustainable development. 
issues  and 
Croatia is firmly devoted to participation in those 
processes,  in  particular  in  the  fields  of  education  and 
gender  equality.  Education  is  a  sector  which  builds 
a  firm  foundation  for  responding  to  the  challenges 
of  pursuing  a  post-2015  development  framework. 
12-52402
3
A/67/PV.16
the 
Therefore,  Croatia  salutes 
the 
Secretary-General’s  Education  First  initiative  and  is 
pleased that the Croatian President has been invited to 
join the steering group known as the Group of Member 
State Champions.
launching  of 
I have already mentioned Croatia’s successful post-
conflict transition. In addition to having joined NATO 
since  2009,  Croatia  will  become  the  twenty-eighth 
member  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  next  year.  Our 
international engagement is visible and strong. Croatia 
has  been  an  active  participant  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  and  I  praise  our  women  and 
men who have risked their lives for the common good. 
We  have  been  providing  substantial  contributions 
to  international  efforts  to  stabilize  Afghanistan  and 
improve the living conditions of its people, highlighting 
the need for the protection of human rights, in particular 
the rights of women and children. Croatia is also actively 
participating in EU meetings at a time when the Union 
is  intensively  trying  to  find  ways  of  overcoming  the 
crisis and assuming its rightful place in the world.
Let me emphasize that Croatia greatly appreciates 
the  role  that  the  EU  has  been  playing  in  the  United 
Nations  as  a  significant  and  positive  force  behind  a 
number  of  initiatives.  At  the  same  time,  for  Croatia, 
the process of EU accession was primarily an exercise 
in institution-building and State transition. We built a 
stronger State so we can play a more substantive role in 
world affairs. 
The  perspective  of  EU  membership  has  proved 
to  be  the  main  motivator  and  catalyst  for  social  and 
political  reforms.  We  want  our  neighbours  in  South-
Eastern  Europe  to  undertake  the  same  demanding 
but  rewarding  road.  We  do  not  intend  to  assume  a 
mentoring role in the region, but we stand ready to share 
our  experiences  and  contribute  constructively  to  the 
reforms in neighbouring countries based on democracy 
and European values. 
A  peaceful  and  prosperous  South-Eastern  Europe 
is in Croatia’s strategic interest. Our vision is not just 
a  region  devoid  of  war.  We  strive  to  achieve  genuine 
political, societal and economic development. We want 
people,  especially  young  women  and  men,  to  have 
better standards of living and better prospects, to live 
in  a  clean  environment  and  in  a  well-organized  State 
with fully functioning institutions, to speak less about 
what was and much more about what could be.
That reminds me of a quotation by Croatian public 
health expert Dr. Andrija Štampar, a man who founded 
the World Health Organization decades ago, who once 
said  that,  “All  people,  regardless  of  whether  they  are 
rich or poor, have the right to be healthy!” I agree. Only 
healthy  and  self-confident  people  can  shape  a  healthy 
and progressive society. It is our primary responsibility, 
individual  and  collective,  to  build  such  a  world  and 
bequeath it to our children.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Croatia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Zoran Milanović, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Croatia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime 
Minister of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Patrice  Emery 
Trovoada, Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic 
of Sao Tome and Principe, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Trovoada  (Sao  Tome  and  Principe)  (spoke  in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
First of all, on behalf of the Government of Sao Tome 
and  Principe,  and  in  my  own  name,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
I  am  convinced  that  his  experience  as  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia will be a most 
positive  contribution  to  strengthening  the  affirmation 
of  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  for 
world  security  and  peace,  and  I  trust  that  he  will  lead 
the work of this session with clarity and balance.
The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe 
also  wishes  to  express  its  great  appreciation  for  the 
work  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  for  his 
role  in  expanding  our  Organization  and  encouraging 
it  to  continue  its  efforts  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
world peace and security. I would also like to take this 
4 
12-52402
opportunity  to  thank  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  for  his  highly  positive  contribution  during 
the sixty-sixth session.
As  it  did  during  the  debates  of  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  reiterates  its 
hope  that  the  United  Nations  will  play  a  key  role  in 
mediating international conflicts. Unfortunately, today 
we  continue  to  look  on  with  concern  as  conflicts  that 
could  jeopardize  international  peace  and  security 
persist  and  further  exacerbate  the  deep  economic  and 
financial  crisis  that  is  devastating  the  world.  Sadly, 
our  Organization  continues  to  suffer  from  roadblocks 
that  prevent  urgent  decisions  from  being  taken  and 
that  undermine  this  forum’s  credibility.  That  inaction 
translates into impunity for leaders who martyrize their 
own  peoples,  paving  the  way  for  more  international 
disorder, despair and the sentiment of injustice that is 
experienced when peoples receive unequal treatment.
We  need  no  further  evidence  of  the  urgency  for 
in-depth  reforms  of  our  Organization,  primarily  the 
Security  Council,  than  our  inability  to  put  an  end  to 
the horrific images of children, symbols of purity and 
innocence, who are killed daily in Syria, to prevent the 
destruction of the world’s historic and cultural heritage, 
as  by  gangs  of  destructive  criminals  in  Mali  and  in 
Afghanistan,  and  to  forestall  coups  d’état  or  obvious 
attempts to destabilize States and democratically elected 
Governments that in fact solve nothing and irreparably 
delay  the  lengthy  process  of  building  democracy  and 
fighting poverty.
We  must  prevent  the  disintegration  of  territories 
and  remedy  the  abnormal  and  degrading  situations 
of  peoples  who  have  already  suffered  from  the 
poverty and exclusion created by a lack of democratic 
leadership  or  of  effective  and  democratic  rule  of  law. 
In the specific case of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, 
with  which  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  maintains  deeply 
rooted  historic,  cultural  and  linguistic  links,  the 
international  community  should  bring  both  firmness 
and persistence to bear in finding a credible, inclusive 
and  lasting  solution  that  will  ensure  that  coups  d’état 
do  not  recur  in  that  country.  To  do  so  necessarily 
requires  a  reform  of  the  armed  forces  as  well  as  a 
strong warning to the political class as a whole to make 
a  steadfast  commitment  to  respect  political  dialogue 
and democratic legality. On our side, we will continue 
to  make  efforts,  in  cooperation  with  the  Community 
of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries  and  other  engaged 
A/67/PV.16
regional and international organizations, to guarantee a 
better future for the people of Guinea-Bissau.
Regarding  the  occupation  of  the  north  of  the 
Republic of Mali by groups of terrorists and the persistent 
conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sao 
Tome  and  Príncipe  acknowledges  and  applauds  the 
efforts the international community has made through 
the United Nations and the African Union to establish 
peace, security and stability. However, it seems that it is 
becoming increasingly essential for us to ask the States 
that share borders with those two African countries to 
establish more effective, intelligent and effective ways 
to cooperate, based on trust and on a matrix of mutually 
beneficial and realistic economic interests.
It 
that 
is  common  knowledge 
the  forces  of 
destabilization,  despair  and  terror  are  fuelled  and 
furthered  by  differences  and  distrust  between 
States,  which  in  turn  paralyses  the  international 
decision-making process. However, we must point out 
positive  signs  in  the  trends  of  a  few  conflicts  on  the 
African continent, such as the cases of the Republics of 
the Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia. Consequently, we 
cannot fail to applaud the recent agreement signed by the 
Republic of the Sudan and South Sudan. Through that 
framework, the two countries will be able to live in peace 
and harmony. We also welcome the positive role of the 
African Union Mission in Somalia, which paves the way 
to returning the political, economic and social situation 
of that country and the region to normalcy. Moreover, 
in our opinion, the important recommendations of the 
Secretary-General’s report on the situation concerning 
the Western Sahara (S/2012/197) are a positive asset for 
a permanent resolution. 
The  social  movements  that  took  place  in  North 
Africa  in  2011,  which  had  the  merit  of  reinstating 
the  right  to  freedom  and  democracy  for  the  different 
peoples,  were  popular  movements  that  in  many  cases 
were mobilized through social networking and modern 
instruments  of 
technical  communication.  Various 
situations of insecurity and reprehensible acts, as well 
as  the  acts  recently  committed  in  Benghazi  of  which 
American diplomats were the victims, raise the issue of 
how we may live in this new context of the circulation 
and  dissemination  of  images  and  information  at  the 
global  level,  in  a  world  that  we  want  to  be  free,  open 
and tolerant, but in which large segments of the world 
population still live in a state of extreme poverty, with 
no access to education and with the growing conviction 
that they face exclusion and discrimination.
12-52402
5
A/67/PV.16
How  do  we  deal  with  the  offences  committed 
by  people,  including  even  some  persons  with  public 
political  responsibilities  such  as  State  leaders,  who 
fail  to  recognize  the  right  of  other  peoples  and  States 
to  exist?  In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  take  the 
opportunity  that  this  platform  affords  us  to  express 
to  the  mourning  families  of  diplomats,  journalists, 
members  of  non-governmental  organization  and 
peacekeepers our sincere and deep condolences as well 
as  our  unfailing  solidarity.  Our  ongoing  obligation  to 
work to build a better world and to invest in education 
and the promotion of human and democratic values is 
fundamental, beginning with Member States complying 
with all United Nations resolutions.
The  massacres  in  Syria  must  cease,  the  integrity 
and  security  of  the  State  of  Israel  must  be  effectively 
guaranteed,  the  Palestinian  people  must  have  their 
own  State,  the  embargo  against  Cuba  must  end, 
countries,  including  Iran,  must  have  the  right  to  civil 
nuclear technology and must scrupulously observe the 
commitments  that  that  entails,  and  polluters  must  be 
the  principal  payers.  It  must  be  our  ambition,  and  not 
a  mere  hope,  to  ensure  that  we  return  here  next  year 
with an agenda that includes fewer of these troublesome 
issues, many of which are recurring.
We are pleased to note a few positive signs in the 
dialogue  between  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan 
and  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  the  one  hand, 
and, on the other, the willingness of the United States 
Congress and the European Parliament to admit Taiwan 
as a member of international organizations. Sao Tome 
and  Principe  supports  initiatives  such  as  these,  which 
will make it possible for the people of Taiwan to make a 
significant contribution to international issues without 
ignoring the necessity for the two parties in the Straits 
of  Formosa  to  work  peacefully  to  agree  to  frame  and 
normalize their relations.
The High-level Meeting that preceded the general 
debate was an excellent opportunity for Member States 
to  share  information  on  how  democratic  reforms  are 
being  implemented  and  the  rule  of  law  strengthened 
both  in  individual  countries  and  at  the  international 
level. It is very pleasing that this discussion is leading 
to significant progress in implementing the democratic 
and institutional reforms that can help to strengthen the 
rule of law, internally and internationally. In that regard, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  congratulates  the  Republic 
of  Angola  on  its  recent  successful  and  transparent 
general  elections,  since  they  also  constitute  another 
step  towards  strengthening  the  democratic  process  in 
its sister country of Sao Tome and Principe.
Threats 
to  our  global  security,  particularly 
transnational crimes such as piracy and the trafficking 
and sale of arms and drugs, are a matter of great concern 
for  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  a  country  with  a  long 
coastline  located  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea.  Such  events 
are threats that we cannot ignore; they demand that we 
cooperate  as  closely  as  possible  both  with  the  States 
we share the coastline with and the other partners and 
organizations that have experience in dealing with such 
issues, and adopt mechanisms — which we resolve to 
strengthen  —  for  preventing,  managing  and  resolving 
conflicts caused by organized crime in order to improve 
our collective security.
In that context, we applaud the important resolutions 
2018  (2011)  and  2039  (2012)  adopted  by  the  Security 
Council  on  maritime  safety  and  security  in  the  Gulf 
of  Guinea.  As  part  of  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  region,  we 
repeat our firm pledge to do everything we can, jointly 
with our partners, to prevent that region, rich as it is in 
raw materials of strategic importance to industrialized 
economies, from becoming a stage for maritime piracy 
and  other  scourges  that  hinder  economic  trade,  peace 
and security in the region. To that end, we reiterate that 
we are absolutely ready and willing to help implement 
initiatives to hold an international summit on maritime 
piracy in the Gulf of Guinea.
The substantial transformations that have occurred 
in the international political arena as a result of the grave 
global financial crisis have forced the citizens of small 
States, and of Sao Tome and Principe in particular, to 
make  major  sacrifices.  In  that  regard,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  believes  that  the  continuing  international 
and  economic  financial  crisis  and  its  effects  on  the 
economies  of  small  countries,  which  have  included 
reductions and slowdowns in official international aid, 
tend  to  threaten  social  cohesion  as  well  as  previous 
improvements in fiscal discipline, the business climate 
and  political  stability  itself.  The  acceptability  of 
controlling  and  reducing  public  deficits  in  developing 
countries  such  as  ours  is  reaching  its  limits  where 
our citizens are concerned, and good governance now 
demands  measures  that  can  effectively  jump-start  our 
economies through productive investments.
We  believe  that  the  most  vulnerable  populations, 
in  both  the  northern  and  southern  hemispheres  of  our 
planet,  are  demanding  changes  in  the  practices  and 
6 
12-52402
rules  of  the  international  financial  system,  and  new 
world  financial  governance  that  is  better  able  to  hold 
accountable the financial stakeholders and speculators 
who  undermine  the  efforts  of  Governments  and  their 
peoples to develop economies that bring progress.
Internally,  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  is  making  efforts 
to reduce poverty and increase transparency in public 
management  and  economic  growth. 
Institutional 
reforms  in  the  areas  of  public  finance,  justice  and 
national  defence,  whose  purpose  is  to  strengthen  the 
capacities  of  our  democratic  institutions  and  develop 
the  country,  have  been  progressing  at  a  good  pace. 
Regarding  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  for 
which  the  United  Nations  has  set  a  deadline  of  2015, 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe can 
report  significant  progress,  particularly  in  the  areas 
of education, with a literacy rate of 92 per cent of the 
population,  and  health,  especially  in  the  fight  against 
malaria. However, we realize that meeting the deadline 
will require further effort.
To  achieve  those  goals,  our  country  hopes  to 
continue  to  receive  support  in  many  forms  from  the 
international  community.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like 
to take this opportunity to extend the sincere thanks of 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe to 
the  entire  international  community,  and  in  particular 
UNESCO and all of its member States, for designating 
the  island  of  Principe  a  UNESCO  World  Biosphere 
Reserve, 
thus  recognizing  and  providing  further 
incentives  for  our  efforts  to  defend  and  preserve  the 
environment.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  repeating  that  the 
Government  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  which  I  have 
the honour of representing, stands ready and willing to 
take  part  in  efforts  to  mobilize  the  will  and  synergy 
needed to achieve the honourable goals that guided the 
creation of the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
A/67/PV.16
Address  by  Mr.  Hailemariam  Desalegn,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic 
of Ethiopia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Ethiopia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
I  would 
like 
(Ethiopia): 
Mr.  Desalegn 
to 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session,  and  to  thank  him  for  the  inspiring  speech  he 
made  at  the  opening  of  the  general  debate  (see  A/67/
PV.6).  We  are  confident  that  the  spirit  exemplified  in 
that speech will guide him during his presidency. Let me 
also take this opportunity to express my appreciation to 
the outgoing President.
The reason I am here on this rostrum, making my 
maiden  speech  to  the  General  Assembly  as  Head  of 
Government of the new Ethiopia, is because we lost our 
leader only a little more than a month ago. The passing 
of  Prime  Minister  Meles  Zenawi  is  a  huge  loss  for 
Ethiopia, and undoubtedly for Africa as well. He was a 
man  of  prodigious  intellect  who  was  uncompromising 
in  his  insistence  that  Ethiopians  and  Africans  should 
own and protect their development strategies and their 
approaches to governance and democratization. The late 
Ethiopian  Prime  Minister,  and  the  party  he  led,  have 
facilitated the emergence of a new Ethiopia, rekindling 
the hopes of Ethiopians for the future and strengthening 
their confidence in their ability to overcome adversity.
Ethiopians  proved  their  mettle,  and  what  they  are 
made  of,  when  they  received  the  unexpected  news  of 
the  tragedy  with  which  the  nation  was  faced.  It  is  an 
honour and a blessing to be the leader of a people who 
are  generous  in  paying  tribute  to  those,  like  Prime 
Minister  Meles,  who  served  them  selflessly;  a  people 
who  have  the  maturity  and  wisdom  to  see,  and  even 
lucidly  articulate,  who  has  done  what  for  the  nation 
and  for  the  people  of  Ethiopia.  That  would  naturally 
make any human being who is given the opportunity to 
lead a country ask himself what more he can do for his 
12-52402
7
A/67/PV.16
people — not in words but in deeds, as our late Prime 
Minister  often  emphasized.  As  might  be  expected, 
doomsday scenarios for Ethiopia’s future were bandied 
about.
But the people of Ethiopia — from north to south, 
from  east  to  west,  across  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  country  —  were  categorical  in  stating  in  unison 
how  much  they  embrace  the  unity  of  the  country, 
unity that celebrates their diversity and is built on the 
bedrock of their federal Constitution. Let me take this 
opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Ethiopian people 
and  myself,  all  those  leaders  and  heads  of  delegation 
who came to Addis Ababa to be with us at our time of 
grief. We cherish your friendship. I wish to reiterate my 
condolences to the peoples and Governments of Ghana, 
Malawi  and  Guinea-Bissau,  who  have  also  lost  their 
leaders recently.
We  Ethiopians  are  confident  that  we  have  come 
a  long  way.  Never  before  in  its  modern  history  has 
Ethiopia  had  the  kind  of  rapid  economic  growth  that 
it has witnessed over the last decade or so. Indeed, for 
the first time in its modern history, Ethiopia has begun 
to see a bright light at the end of the tunnel in terms of 
real prospects for economic transformation. We are, for 
sure, on a hugely promising trajectory. Our Growth and 
Transformation Plan, to which our late Prime Minister 
was devoted, and which is now embraced by our people, 
is  designed  to  catapult  our  nation  to  a  destination 
thathas long eluded it but is now within reach.
We  go  forward  with  full  recognition  of  our 
responsibility,  as  the  second  most  populous  country 
in  Africa,  to  contribute  to  regional  integration.  We 
foresee huge possibilities for bringing the countries of 
the  greater  Horn  of  Africa  together.  We  have  already 
gone some distance in playing a catalytic role in laying 
the  infrastructural  basis  for  consolidating  economic 
ties with the countries of our region. The electric power 
interconnections  and  the  road  and  railway  networks 
that  we  have  built  and  are  in  the  process  of  building 
with Djibouti, the Sudan, Kenya and South Sudan are 
emblematic of our resolve to play our part in regional 
integration. We are confident that Somalia and others, 
without exception, will follow suit.
But our success hinges on a number of conditions 
being met, none of which is amenable to our unilateral 
initiative.  First  is  the  question  of  peace  and  stability 
and  the  challenge  of  extremism.  Here,  also,  we  have 
made much progress. Somalia is gradually coming out 
of the woods. We salute all those, most particularly the 
contributors of troops to the African Union Mission in 
Somalia, for the sacrifice they have made. The African 
Union  (AU)  has  made  an  enormous  contribution  to 
laying the basis for the progress that Somalia has made. 
We  also  acknowledge  the  very  useful  cooperation 
between  the  AU  and  the  United  Nations,  including 
their two Councils responsible for security. We have to 
recognize the role of partners as well. But much more 
needs  to  be  done  in  Somalia  to  ensure  that  the  new 
Government stands on its own feet. We would be naive, 
however,  if  we  believed  that  the  enemies  of  peace  of 
Somalia  and  the  region  are  completely  defeated.  That 
is  why  it  is  so  critical  that  the  momentum  is  not  lost 
in  Somalia  and  Somalia’s  ownership  of  the  process 
of  national  reconciliation  is  strengthened.  We  will 
continue to assist Somalia and the new President of the 
country, Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, and the people 
of Somalia can count on that.
We are pleased that there is also major progress in 
the peace process between the Sudan and South Sudan. 
We are confident that the two parties will maintain the 
momentum towards durable peace, which is the basis for 
ensuring the viability of both. We are indeed indebted 
to  former  President  Thabo  Mbeki  and  the  African 
Union  High-level  Implementation  Panel  for 
their 
perseverance  and  commitment  to  peace  between  the 
two sisterly countries. What has been achieved by the 
two parties over the last few days, which culminated in 
the signing of the much anticipated agreements on vital 
matters, is a significant breakthrough, which needs to 
be  consolidated  and  used  as  a  basis  for  resolving  the 
issues  still  remaining.  We  are  confident  that  the  two 
parties  appreciate  how  vital  their  joint  effort  for  a 
win-win outcome is, not only for their peoples, but also 
for us all. 
Peace  between  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  and  a 
close  partnership  between  the  two,  above  and  beyond 
the  benefit  it  has  for  us  all,  has  for  us  Ethiopians  an 
additional  emotional  and  sentimental  value.  That  was 
an  issue  that  our  late  Prime  Minister,  even  as  he  was 
struggling  for  his  life,  was  following  with  the  same 
intensity as before, and he continued to offer whatever 
added  value  he  could  bring  to  bear  on  the  peace 
process. Let me thank both the Sudan and South Sudan 
for placing their trust in us, as has been so manifest in 
the deployment of the United Nations Interim Security 
Force for Abyei. Indeed, we are proud of our troops in 
8 
12-52402
Abyei,  as  we  are  of  all  our  people  serving  under  the 
United Nations flag, including those in Darfur.
Before I move on to the second challenge we face, I 
wish to say a few words on broader issues that help put 
in perspective the challenge our region faces in securing 
sustainable peace and stability. The major war we have 
to  win  is  undoubtedly  the  war  on  poverty.  The  most 
difficult challenge we face here in developing the most 
effective means to wage that war is that of ensuring that 
the rule of law is observed, both in inter-State relations 
and  in  the  domestic  sphere.  At  its  most  fundamental 
level,  the  struggle  against  extremism  is  one  aspect  of 
the struggle to ensure that the rule of law is respected 
and the principles of tolerance are adhered to. Wherever 
an  act  of  intolerance  or  a  violation  of  laws  occurs, 
sometimes in an egregious manner, as in Benghazi, it 
needs to be condemned.
The  second  challenge  we  face  in  sustaining  our 
development agenda relates to a host of issues impinging 
on  our  capacity  to  ensure  sustainable  development. 
Let  us  be  frank  and  admit  that  there  is  a  huge  deficit 
in  international  cooperation  for  the  development  of 
both  low-income  and  least  developed  countries.  At 
the end of the day, regardless of other impediments to 
development,  the  major  bottleneck  for  countries  such 
as  Ethiopia  for  ensuring  sustainable  development  and 
successfully  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  is  related  to  shortfalls  in  development  finance. 
We  said  as  much  in  the  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid 
Effectiveness  and  the  Accra  Agenda  for  Action, 
and,  recently,  in  the  Busan  Partnership  for  Effective 
Development  Cooperation,  but  the  results  have  been 
few  and  far  between.  In  our  view,  the  current  global 
economic situation should never be allowed to detract 
attention from the critical need for development finance 
of low-income countries.
The  challenge  in  this  area  is  compounded  and 
made even worse by climate change, which is a global 
challenge  calling  for  responsible  and  wise  leadership 
at  the  international  level.  The  response  should  rely 
on  full  commitment  to  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities.  However  boring  it  may 
be,  something  that  is  universally  acknowledged  bears 
repeating.  Countries  such  as  Ethiopia  which  did  not 
contribute to climate change are nonetheless those most 
affected  by  it.  But,  still,  we  recognize  our  obligation. 
That  is  why  Ethiopia  has  already  opted  for  a  green 
growth  path,  and  our  current  five-year  Growth  and 
Transformation  Plan  is  based  on  developing  a  green 
A/67/PV.16
economy,  the  strategy  for  which  has  already  been 
issued  and  is  being  implemented.  We  seek  effective 
cooperation in this endeavour.
We had hoped that the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development would achieve more than 
it  did.  Nevertheless,  we  look  forward  to  meaningful 
and effective work by the working group on sustainable 
development, to which we are ready to contribute as best 
we can. We are also hopeful that the intergovernmental 
process  under  the  auspices  of  the  General  Assembly 
in connection with financing for development will not 
turn into a filibustering exercise without any impact on 
this  issue,  which  is  so  critical  for  the  development  of 
low-income countries.
As  I  conclude,  I  wish  to  express  my  agreement 
with  previous  speakers  that  the  twenty-first  century 
is  indeed  an  African  century.  As  mentioned  by  my 
brother,  the  President  of  Ghana,  out  of  the  10  fastest 
growing  economies  in  the  world  last  year,  six  were 
African countries. I should also mention that Ethiopia 
was  among  the  six.  Africa  is  indeed  changing,  and 
changing  for  the  better.  There  is  no  greater  human 
rights  violation  than  attempts  to  put  obstacles  in  the 
way  of  the  success  of  the  ongoing  transformations  of 
Africa, which will have enormous salutary implications 
for hundreds of millions of Africans.
Africa  is  no  longer  the  marginalized  continent 
of  the  1980s  or  even  of  the  period  a  little  later  than 
that.  Ethiopia  will  continue  to  play  its  part  to  ensure 
the  success  of  the  transformation  and  the  success 
of  multilateralism  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Moulay 
Rachid, Prince of the Kingdom of Morocco
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by His Royal Highness Prince Moulay 
Rachid, Prince of the Kingdom of Morocco.
12-52402
9
A/67/PV.16
His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid, Prince 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid, 
Prince of the Kingdom of Morocco, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
Prince  Moulay  Rachid  (Morocco)  (spoke 
in 
Arabic): His Majesty King Mohammed VI asked me to 
convey his appreciation and respect, and I am pleased 
to  read  my  speech  at  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
First, I would like to warmly congratulate Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session, on his election. That election is a mark 
of esteem for the friendly country of Serbia as much as 
it is a recognition of the vast diplomatic experience he 
brings to the presidency.
I  also  would  like  to  commend  Mr.  Jeremić’s 
predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  on 
his efforts and achievements during the past year.
Similarly,  I  would  like  to  commend  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  untiring  action  and  his 
keen  desire  to  tackle  crises.  I  applaud  his  initiatives 
aimed  at  enabling  the  United  Nations  to  rise  to  the 
growing challenges facing our world.
are 
affecting 
changes 
Sweeping 
today’s 
international  arena.  They  include,  in  particular,  a 
protracted  global  economic  crisis  that  has  various 
implications and consequences. There are also a growing 
number  of  hotbeds  of  tension,  political  disputes  and 
armed conflicts, as well as complex global challenges 
that  exceed  the  capabilities  of  individual  States,  such 
as  achieving  sustainable  development,  protecting  the 
environment,  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fighting  against  the  growing  scourge  of  international 
terrorism and all forms of organized crime.
Given  the  current  changes  in  the  world,  we,  the 
States Members of the United Nations, ought to provide 
the Organization with the means it needs to tackle those 
challenges.  To  that  end,  we  must  expand  the  scope  of 
the Organization’s actions and revitalize its approach, 
while  preserving  its  principles  and  purposes,  so  as  to 
make it an active player in ensuring effective political 
governance  and  an  instrument  for  equitable  economic 
governance.
The Kingdom of Morocco fully backs the decision 
to  give  special  importance  to  resolving  disputes  by 
peaceful  means.  My  country  applauds  the  General 
Assembly’s  decision  to  make  the  strengtheing  of  the 
foremost principle in the Charter of the United Nations 
the key objective of the current session.
Achieving international peace and security remains 
the core historic mission entrusted to the United Nations. 
The tens of thousands of United Nations peacekeepers 
serving  throughout  the  world  to  protect  civilians  and 
working to bring about the right conditions for political 
dialogue between the concerned parties clearly attest to 
the vital role played by our Organization in that regard.
The Kingdom of Morocco takes pride in being one 
of the first States to have contributed to peacekeeping 
operations  under  the  United  Nations  banner.  So  far, 
my  country  has  sent  more  than  50,000  members  of 
the Royal Armed Forces to places around the world to 
serve  in  promoting  the  lofty  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations. Morocco will remain committed to managing 
crises  and  will  support  efforts  to  promote  preventive 
diplomacy.
The  experience  gained  by  the  United  Nations  in 
conflict-affected  countries  points  to  the  importance 
of  securing  smooth,  systematic  transition  from  peace 
restoration to peace consolidation. That requires, above 
all, a prompt response to the pressing needs raised by 
current developments and threats. Otherwise, the threat 
of  a  return  to  violence  and  partition  will  continue  to 
hang over the countries and regions concerned.
During the past year, the African continent has seen 
a serious deterioration in the situation on the continent, 
particularly in the Sahel and the Sahara regions, owing 
to  criminal,  terrorist  and  separatist  activities,  which 
now threaten the stability of the countries concerned.
Our  sister  nation, 
the  Republic  of  Mali, 
is 
confronted  with  a  situation  that  threatens  the  country 
and its national unity and territorial integrity. Despite 
the  sincere  efforts  exerted  by  countries  in  the  region, 
including  Morocco  and  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States,  the  contribution  of  the  United 
Nations  is  also  needed  in  order  to  achieve  national 
consensus,  overcome  the  political  crisis  and  confront 
separatist activities in the north. Only an independent, 
focused  effort  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  can 
help  achieve  those  objectives.  I  should  like,  in  that 
respect, to reiterate to our brothers in Mali Morocco’s 
commitment to continue to provide them with aid and 
10 
12-52402
active  support  for  the  success  of  the  political  process 
and  the  preservation  of  their  country’s  national  unity 
and territorial integrity.
At the same time, the Kingdom of Morocco lauds 
the  notable  progress  made  in  several  parts  of  Africa, 
especially  in  the  sister  nations  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  and 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  towards  the 
promotion  of  national  reconciliation  and  a  return  to 
political  normalcy.  Moreover,  Morocco  reiterates 
its  firm  commitment  to  pursuing  cooperation  and 
solidarity  programmes  with  various  African  sister 
nations, using efficient, dyпаmic approaches to South-
South cooperation for the benefit of African citizens.
The  changes  witnessed  in  the  Arab  region  ref lect 
the  will  of  the  peoples  involved  to  build  democratic 
societies  where  human  rights  are  respected  and  where 
citizens enjoy equal opportunities and a dignified life. 
The peoples in the sister nations of Tunisia, Libya, Egypt 
and  Yemen  have  ushered  in  a  new  era  and  have  made 
great headway towards a democratic transition, despite 
a  complex  and  tumultuous  political  environment,  a 
fact  that  makes  it  incumbent  upon  the  international 
community  to  provide  support  and  assistance  to  those 
countries  to  deal  with  the  constraints  and  difficulties 
that they face.
It  is,  on  the  other  hand,  most  regrettable  that  the 
Syrian  people  are  each  day  paying  a  daily  price  in 
blood  for  their  freedom.  They  yearn  for  the  kind  of 
democratic  change  that  would  enable  each  component 
of the Syrian population to contribute to achieving the 
desired  change.  Morocco,  as  the  only  Arab  country 
sitting  on  the  Security  Council,  has  significantly 
contributed to mobilizing international support for the 
League of Arab States’ initiatives and resolutions. We 
call for concerted efforts and decisive action to compel 
the  Syrian  regime  to  put  an  end  to  the  violence.  We 
also  call  for  a  political  transition  process  that  would 
allow  for  the  full  spectrum  of  opinions  to  be  heard, 
the aspirations of the Syrian people to be fulfilled, and 
Syria’s  national  unity  and  territorial  integrity,  as  well 
as for stability in the entire region, to be ensured.
At the same time, it is necessary to raise the financial 
resources  required  to  meet  the  needs  of  refugees 
in  neighbouring  countries  and  those  of  internally 
displaced  persons,  as  well  as  to  ease  the  suffering  of 
our Syrian brothers and put an end to their tragedy. In 
that regard, Morocco continues to show its solidarity by 
A/67/PV.16
providing  medical  services  on  a  daily  basis  to  Syrian 
refugees in the sisterly Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
the  Palestinian 
The  rapid  developments  in  the  Arab  region  must 
not  distract  us  from  the  fundamental,  longstanding 
challenge  of  resolving 
issue.  In 
that  regard,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  calls  for  the 
mobilization of international support to back the steps 
taken  by  the  Palestinian  National  Authority  to  secure 
non-member State status. At the same time, my country 
is of the view that negotiations are the best way for the 
Palestinian  people  to  regain  their  legitimate  national 
rights  and  to  set  up  an  independent,  fully  viable  and 
geographically contiguous Palestinian State, living side 
by side with Israel, in peace and security. I therefore look 
forward to seeing the international community change 
its  approach  to  resolving  that  crisis  by  reconsidering 
its intervention mechanisms and work methods in order 
to  ensure  that  direct  negotiations  are  resumed  very 
soon and in the best possible circumstances, under the 
auspices  and  with  the  commitment  of  the  influential 
Powers.
That  cannot  be  achieved  if  the  fait  accompli 
policy is allowed to continue. In that regard and in my 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Al-Quds  Committee,  I  have 
strongly condemned the Israeli plan for the Judaization 
of occupied East Jerusalem, as well as the Israeli plans 
to  wipe  out  the  city’s  spiritual  and  cultural  identity 
and  change  its  demographic  and  urban  features.  Let 
me reaffirm, in that regard, that there can be no peace 
without East Jerusalem as the capital of an independent 
Palestinian state.
Steadfast  in  its  belief  in  the  importance  and 
effectiveness  of  joint  regional  action,  the  Kingdom 
of  Morocco  has  undertaken  initiatives  and  bilateral 
contacts  to  inject  fresh  momentum  into  the  Arab 
Maghreb Union. Indeed, my country believes that such 
a strategic, inclusive regional bloc is urgently needed; 
not only does it meet the legitimate aspirations of our 
peoples, but it is also necessitated by the security and 
development challenges facing the five Maghreb States. 
In  a  bid  to  overcome  obstacles  that  might  hinder  the 
realization of that Maghreb ambition, the Kingdom of 
Morocco has contributed in a sincere, dedicated manner 
to  negotiations  aimed  at  finding  a  realistic,  mutually 
acceptable  political  solution  to  the  artificial  regional 
dispute  over  the  Moroccan  Sahara  —  a  solution  that 
would  guarantee  the  Kingdom’s  national  unity  and 
territorial  integrity,  allow  for  reunification  to  take 
12-52402
11
A/67/PV.16
place,  and  respect  the  characteristics  of  the  region’s 
populations.
Morocco  remains  committed  and  willing 
to 
negotiate on the basis of the principles established and 
repeatedly reaffirmed by the Security Council, as well 
as  the  autonomy  initiative,  which  the  international 
community has deemed serious, realistic and credible. 
Morocco will also continue to cooperate constructively 
with the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in 
Western Sahara, on the basis of the mandate entrusted 
to it by the Security Council — a mandate that will not 
change in any way; neither in form nor substance.
I cannot conclude without referring to the need for 
collective,  effective  and  concerted  action  against  all 
forms  of  extremism,  hatred,  xenophobia,  provocation 
and  rejection  of  those  different  from  us  and  the 
undermining  of  their  beliefs,  for  whatever  reason  and 
in  whichever  form.  Given  the  increase  in  appalling 
acts  of  that  kind,  often  with  tragic  consequences,  I 
believe national efforts to tackle them must be part of 
a concerted international strategy that should take into 
account  existing  constructive  initiatives,  build  on  the 
mobilization of all United Nations bodies, be based on 
clear commitments, and encourage law-making and the 
dissemination of national and regional best practices in 
that area.
It  is  up  to  us  as  Member  States  to  provide  the 
necessary  means  and  to  reiterate  our  political  will  to 
support the Organization and reform its structures and 
intervention  mechanisms.  The  aim  is  to  enhance  its 
effectiveness in terms of achieving peace and security 
and promoting cooperation, while enabling it to fulfil 
its  indispensable  mission  of  furthering  tolerance  and 
coexistence, for the benefit of all mankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank His Royal Highness Prince 
Moulay Rachid, Prince of the Kingdom of Morocco, for 
the statement he has just made.
His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid, Prince 
of the Kingdom of Morocco, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Eamon  Gilmore,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the State of Ireland.
Mr. Gilmore (Ireland): The primary mission of the 
United Nations is to “save succeeding generations from 
the scourge of war, which... has brought untold sorrow 
to mankind”. Those are the words of the Charter of the 
United  Nations:  the  legacy  of  our  predecessors.  Our 
history tells us that conflict grows in the spaces where 
human  rights  are  denied;  that,  where  deprivation, 
inequality  and  injustice  erode  human  dignity  and 
potential, conflict is the consequence; that war follows 
hunger, and hunger follows war. That is why the Charter 
expresses  in  simple  and  clear  terms  our  commitment 
to  fundamental  human  rights.  It  reaffirms  our  “faith 
in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person,  in  the 
equal  rights  of  men  and  women  and  of  nations  large 
and small”.
Words can at times become too familiar, so familiar 
that  their  force  and  impact  fade  with  time.  We  who 
gather  here  each  year  must  remind  ourselves  what  we 
stand for, reflect honestly on what we have achieved and 
what we have not achieved, and rededicate ourselves to 
the ideals set out in our Charter. We must make those 
lofty words relevant again to the peoples for whom we 
speak here.
The struggle for human rights is being fought every 
day  in  every  region  of  the  world.  There  are  too  many 
forgotten places and forgotten causes. We must not turn 
away from the dark corners where the media spotlight 
does  not  shine  or  from  which  the  media  spotlight  has 
long  departed.  We  must  speak  here  for  the  five-year-
old  child,  without  a  family,  struggling  to  survive  in  a 
refugee camp; for the hungry mother cradling a dying 
infant at a feeding station; for those who cannot speak 
publicly  in  their  own  lands  and  who  look  to  us  here 
for the vindication of their basic rights; for those who 
believe in the words of our Charter and expect us to act 
on them.
What  is  happening  in  Syria  is  an  affront  to 
humanity.  Syrian  children,  Syrian  women  and  Syrian 
men, young and old, are being slaughtered by their own 
Government. A national army — the army of a sovereign 
State and Member of this Organization — is shelling its 
own  people  as  they  queue  for  bread,  and  is  launching 
airstrikes on its own cities. We find compelling evidence 
of  wholesale  massacres  in  towns  such  as  Houla,  and 
we  see  Syrian  children  trying  to  make  sense  of  their 
shattered  lives  in  refugee  camps  in  neighbouring 
countries.  The  violence  is  indiscriminate,  and  on  an 
appalling scale. And it is not confined to one side.
The  people  of  Syria  deserve  the  full  support  of 
the  international  community  for  the  efforts  to  bring 
12 
12-52402
about an end to their suffering and to achieve an early 
political  transition.  Ireland  backs  the  Joint  Special 
Envoy  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
Nations,  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  in  his  difficult  task.  The 
priority must be to achieve an immediate ceasefire and 
to get a political process under way that will facilitate 
the transition.
What  is  needed,  above  all,  is  a  strong  Security 
Council resolution that will authorize targeted sanctions. 
It must include a comprehensive arms embargo against 
all  those  who  are  responsible  for  violating  the  human 
rights  of  the  Syrian  people.  That  is  what  the  Syrian 
people  want  from  us,  and  what  they  have  a  right  to 
expect.
There  must  also  be  full  accountability  for  human 
rights abuses. To prevent further atrocities now and to 
save lives now, we must make it clear now that atrocities 
will  not  go  unpunished.  That  is  why  Ireland  supports 
the call by the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights  and  by  Switzerland  and  others  for  the 
Security  Council  to  refer  the  situation  in  Syria  to  the 
International Criminal Court. We are working to build 
up strong cross-regional support for such a referral.
If  the  events  in  the  Arab  world  over  the  past  two 
years have taught us anything, it is that leaders who deny 
legitimate demands for greater political and economic 
freedom and who instead resort to waging war on their 
own  people  will  inevitably  lose  the  right  to  rule.  The 
systematic  denial  of  human  rights  and  suppression  of 
democratic  liberties  has  fuelled  a  profound  desire  for 
change.  In  Tunisia,  Egypt,  Libya,  Syria,  Bahrain  and 
elsewhere, Ireland has supported the will of the people, 
peacefully  expressed,  to  bring  about  long-overdue 
democratic reforms.
As  world  attention  focuses  on  Syria,  peace  and 
justice  remain  elusive  elsewhere  in  the  Middle  East. 
The  need  for  a  lasting  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict is as urgent as ever. Yet a depressing stalemate 
persists,  with  no  progress  towards  a  comprehensive 
settlement.  Ireland  has  said  on  many  occasions  that 
the establishment of a Palestinian State, within borders 
based on those of 1967, is long overdue. We have made 
clear our hope that Palestine will be formally admitted 
to the United Nations as a full Member. While that hope 
remains to be fulfilled, we welcome the announcement 
by  President  Abbas  of  his  plans  to  consult  with  the 
membership  of  the  General  Assembly  on  a  resolution 
that,  as  an  interim  step  towards  the  achievement  of 
A/67/PV.16
that  goal,  would  accord  Palestine  non-member  State 
observer  status.  Ireland  will  be  proud  to  support  a 
fair  and  balanced  resolution  to  that  end,  and  we  look 
forward to the forthcoming consultations.
We  know  of  course  that  such  steps  will  not  alter 
the situation on the ground. Israel must stop expanding 
settlements  in  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem, 
which  only  impede  the  prospect  of  achieving  Israel’s 
own  stated  desire  for  a  Palestinian  State.  The  peace 
and security of the people of Israel, to which they are 
entitled, gain nothing from denying the basic rights of 
the people of Gaza, who are subjected to an unjust and 
counterproductive blockade.
There  is  no  alternative  to  serious  negotiations 
between  the  two  sides  aimed  at  a  comprehensive 
settlement.  I  would  like  to  see  President  Abbas  and 
Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  commit  themselves  to 
achieving  a  comprehensive  peace  agreement  within 
a  specified  timescale.  That  will  not  be  easy  and  will 
require painful compromises on both sides. But if both 
leaders  are  willing  to  embark  on  that  path  they  will 
have  the  unstinting  support  of  the  entire  international 
community, including Ireland.
Peace  and  security  are  inextricably  linked  to 
development.  And  development  is  at  the  heart  of 
Ireland’s  foreign  policy.  We  have  maintained  our 
official  development  assistance  above  0.5  per  cent  of 
gross  national  product  —  an  important  achievement 
in  the  face  of  major  economic  difficulties  —  and  we 
remain committed to reaching the United Nations target 
of 0.7 per cent as soon as we possibly can.
Ireland’s  aid  programme  represents  a  genuine 
investment  by  the  Irish  people  in  the  world  we  share 
with  the  people  of  developing  countries.  We  focus  in 
particular on the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. We 
have prioritized investments in education, in health, in 
good  governance,  and  in  the  lives  and  rights  of  girls 
and women and of persons living with HIV and AIDS. 
We  have  seen  remarkable  economic  progress  made  in 
African countries as a result of such investments. But 
great inequalities still persist.
It  is  in  all  our  interests  as  global  citizens  to  stay 
the course in relation to the Millennium Development 
Goals and to continue to work together for a sustainable 
and just world in which States operate on the basis of 
the rights of all people to participate in and contribute 
to society and inclusive economies.
12-52402
13
A/67/PV.16
Against  that  background,  the  reality  of  hunger 
persists  in  our  world.  The  scandal  is  that  we  have  the 
tools to tackle that suffering and that terrible waste of 
human  potential.  How  can  people  realize  their  rights 
and potential if they cannot meet their most basic needs 
for existence?
No country knows that better than Somalia. Once, 
Somalia was at the centre of the world’s attention. But 
the media spotlight moved on, and the people of Somalia 
have faced a long struggle to emerge from war, famine 
and instability. Today, more than two million Somalis 
still  need  our  help.  On  the  last  Sunday  of  July  2012, 
I visited Mogadishu. Amidst the grinding poverty and 
the  misery  of  insecurity,  I  saw  genuine  signs  of  hope 
and opportunity. Schools, homes, shops and businesses 
are being rebuilt and reopened, and people are returning 
from  exile.  Increased  international  engagement  has 
been  essential.  Real  progress  is  also  being  achieved 
in  Somalia’s  transition  to  democracy,  with  impressive 
engagement by Somali traditional and political leaders. 
We must support them.
I pledge today that Ireland will not turn away from 
Somalia  or  from  humanitarian  emergencies  elsewhere 
in the Horn of Africa, the Sahel and across the globe. 
We will work with our partners to highlight forgotten 
crises and the needs of fragile States, as well as to forge 
a  more  coherent  and  effective  international  approach 
towards humanitarian action and development policy.
Ireland  has  made  the  fight  against  hunger  and 
undernourishment  the  key  priority  of  its  development 
policy. We have delivered on our commitment to direct 
20 per cent of our aid budget to that priority. With our 
partners,  we  have  worked  closely  with  the  Secretary-
General to build and support the Scaling Up Nutrition 
movement. But we must do more. Collectively, we must 
act  now  to  recognize  the  systemic  linkages  between 
recurring food price crises, humanitarian emergencies, 
chronic  undernourishment  and  the  effects  of  climate 
change.
There  is  nothing  that  connects  us  more  across 
borders,  across  oceans  and  across  generations  than 
our  mutual  dependence  on  the  planet  that  we  share. 
Climate change is not something happening in a far-off 
land or in a distant future. It is happening now and it is 
happening fast. It is not for another generation to solve. 
It  is  for  us  to  take  responsibility,  to  strive  to  achieve 
climate justice, and to act.
A  deep  attachment  to  the  safeguarding  of  human 
rights has been at the heart of Ireland’s foreign policy 
since the foundation of our State. Ireland’s commitment 
to  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  has 
been  shaped  by  our  own  history.  As  a  small  island 
nation that has experienced the impact of colonialism, 
civil  war  and  conflict,  we  learned  the  hard  way  that 
human rights can never be taken for granted.
From  the  earliest  days  of  our  United  Nations 
membership,  we  pioneered  the  promotion  of  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation. We also paid close 
attention  to  decolonization  and  the  struggle  against 
apartheid.  Today,  we  make  substantial  contributions 
to United Nations development agencies and funds and 
are active participants in United Nations peacekeeping 
operations.  Thousands  of  Irishmen  and  Irishwomen 
have  served  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces, 
and our people are intensely proud of that contribution 
to the ideals of the United Nations.
Ireland also plays an active role in the work being 
done  in  the  United  Nations  framework  to  protect  and 
promote  human  rights.  We  are  proud  that  our  former 
President,  Mary  Robinson,  served  with  distinction  as 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
from  1997  to  2002.  When  the  Human  Rights  Council 
was  first  established  in  2006,  Ireland  declared  that  it 
would  seek  election  to  that  body  in  2012.  That  is  the 
first occasion on which we have sought election to the 
Council.
We are committed to a robust and effective Human 
Rights  Council.  We  want  to  see  a  principled  Council 
that  provides  real  leadership  in  that  critical  area.  We 
also  value  and  support  the  full  participation  of  small 
States  in  the  work  of  the  Council.  The  Universal 
Periodic  Review  process  has  opened  up  an  important 
space  for  national  dialogue  on  human  rights.  Ireland 
engaged  constructively  and  self-critically  in  its  own 
review. We are also firmly committed to a strengthened 
United Nations treaty monitoring body system and have 
actively contributed to efforts to reinforce that system.
Threats to human rights worldwide are proliferating 
steadily, whether from widespread poverty and hunger, 
repressive systems of governance, religious intolerance, 
gender-based  violence  or  other  sources.  If  Ireland  is 
elected  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  November, 
we  will  serve  the  cause  of  international  human  rights 
protection  as  an  active  and  committed  member  of  the 
Council.
14 
12-52402
The  United  Nations  was  founded  on  the  principle 
that  diplomatic  engagement  and  dialogue  between 
nations are essential to peace and human development. 
Attacks  on  diplomatic  missions,  such  as  we  saw 
recently  in  Benghazi,  are  attacks  on  that  principle. 
They are never acceptable and must be condemned by 
the international community.
Ireland  is  currently  chairing  the  Organization  for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). That has 
enabled  us  to  make  a  contribution  to  the  search  for 
agreement across the full range of the OSCE’s activities. 
We  have  drawn  on  our  own  experience  in  building 
peace in Northern Ireland to contribute to the work of 
the OSCE, which seeks to find peaceful settlements to 
protracted conflicts. I am hopeful that by the end of our 
term in office we will have been able to make progress 
in  some  key  areas,  including  in  the  so-called  human 
dimension of the OSCE and on some conflict issues.
We  have  used  our  chairmanship  to  prioritize 
Internet freedom, reflecting the increasing importance 
of the Internet as a platform for the exercise of human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. A major conference 
in  Dublin  last  June  focused  on  how  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  do  not  change  with  new 
technologies,  but  extend  seamlessly  into  the  digital 
age. We look forward to assuming the presidency of the 
European Union Council of Ministers in the first half 
of next year. We will bring to that role the same energy 
and  commitment  that  we  have  devoted  to  discharging 
our OSCE responsibilities.
A  distinguished  Irish  politician  and  lawyer  of  the 
late  eighteenth  century,  John  Philpot  Curran,  once 
remarked that “the price of liberty is eternal vigilance”. 
If we are to live up to the aspirations of the Charter of 
the United Nations, we must also assume the burden of 
eternal vigilance. The daily challenges to human rights 
are painfully obvious. Our response must be clear and 
unrelenting. In the words of the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action,  the  promotion  and  protection 
of  human  rights 
is  “the  first  responsibility”  of 
Governments.  We  cannot  and  must  not  shy  from  that 
responsibility.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr. Michael Spindelegger, Vice-Chancellor and Federal 
Minister  for  European  and  International  Affairs  of 
Austria.
Mr.  Spindelegger  (Austria):  The  events  of  recent 
months  have  illustrated  once  again  the  importance 
A/67/PV.16
of  the  United  Nations  as  a  multilateral  forum  for 
addressing today’s crises and challenges. The conflicts 
in Syria and Mali and the ongoing reform processes in 
many parts of the Arab world demonstrate that we can 
face such challenges only through concerted action.
In  Syria,  thousands  have  lost  their  lives  in  their 
struggle  for  freedom  and  reform  owing  to  crimes 
committed  by  a  regime  that  denies  them  every  basic 
human right in order to stay in power. Austria condemns 
the  systematic  human  rights  violations  and  bloodshed 
in Syria in the strongest possible terms. The more than 
27,000  victims  and  some  2.5  million  people  in  dire 
need  of  humanitarian  assistance  are  a  stark  reminder 
for each and every one of us that it is high time for the 
United Nations to finally act. The Security Council, in 
particular,  must  assume  its  responsibilities  in  relation 
to the ever-worsening situation in the country. Violence 
has to stop immediately, and both sides have to engage 
in  a  meaningful  dialogue  facilitated  by  Joint  Special 
Representative  Lakhdar  Brahimi.  There  will  be  no 
solution  unless  President  Al-Assad  steps  aside  and 
gives way to the forces of reason and reconciliation.
Austria  continues  to  fully  support  the  ongoing 
transition  processes  in  the  Arab  world.  We  welcome 
the  efforts  undertaken  so  far  to  lay  the  foundations 
for more open, inclusive and prosperous societies. We 
encourage  the  newly  empowered  authorities  to  fulfil 
their  mandate  for  democratic  change  responsibly.  The 
aspirations of the people for dignity and freedom must 
be satisfied, thereby contributing to peace and stability 
in the region.
In  that  context,  let  me  reiterate  my  strongest 
condemnation  of  the  recent  attacks  on  diplomatic 
missions  and  personnel,  especially  the  murder  of 
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of his colleagues 
in Benghazi. Violence is never an acceptable response 
to the exercise of the fundamental right of freedom of 
speech. To attack an Embassy and its personnel is not 
only contrary to international law but an attack on the 
very ideals that the United Nations stands for, namely, 
the  peaceful  cooperation  of  Member  States  to  build  a 
better future together.
to 
gravely 
The  still  unresolved  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
the  Middle 
continues 
East.  The  terms  of  a  negotiated  and  sustainable 
solution  —  two  States  with  secure  and  mutually 
recognized  borders  —  have  been  discussed  over  and 
over again and are broadly supported by the people and 
destabilize 
12-52402
15
A/67/PV.16
the international community, and yet we experienced a 
complete lack of progress in the last year. We therefore 
call  on  the  leadership  on  both  sides  to  finally  assume 
their  responsibilities  and  enable  a  lasting  peace  and 
security to be established for their children and future 
generations.
The  situation  in  Mali  also  continues  to  be  a 
matter  of  grave  concern.  Austria  has  been  dismayed 
by  the  political  turmoil,  with  its  disastrous  effects  on 
the  Malian  population.  Growing  insecurity  and  the 
continued deterioration of the humanitarian and human 
rights situation call for concerted action. The high-level 
meeting  held  on  Wednesday  was  an  important  signal 
that we are moving in that direction. We fully support 
the  efforts  by  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States  and  the  African  Union  to  try  to  find, 
together  with  the  United  Nations,  a  lasting  political 
solution  to  the  crisis  in  Mali  and  the  Sahel  region  as 
a  whole.  Austria  will  advocate  for  increased  support 
from the European Union to contribute to that end.
In  the  light  of  the  crises  and  challenges  the 
international  community  is  facing,  Austria  welcomes 
President Jeremić’s timely choice of theme to highlight 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  in  this  year’s 
general  debate.  Prevention  is  always  better  —  and 
cheaper  —  than  a  cure.  The  progress  made  in  Sierra 
Leone, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal and Myanmar testifies how 
successful sustainable mediation efforts can be.
The peaceful settlement of disputes can be achieved 
only through open dialogue, based on mutual respect. 
Austria  has  a  long-standing  tradition  of  promoting 
intercultural and interreligious dialogue. We are proud 
to  host  the  fifth  Global  Forum  of  the  United  Nations 
Alliance of Civilizations in Vienna. It will take place on 
27 and 28 February 2013, under the title “Responsible 
Leadership in Diversity and Dialogue”. Austria highly 
values  the  contribution  of  youth  as  a  transformative 
force. Therefore, the day before the Global Forum will 
be  dedicated  to  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  youth 
event in order to benefit from their views.
In  that  context,  I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  that 
the King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz International Centre 
for  lnterreligious  and  Intercultural  Dialogue  will  be 
inaugurated  on  26  November  in  Vienna.  The  Centre, 
a  joint  initiative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
the  Kingdom  of  Spain  and  the  Republic  of  Austria, 
will  certainly  offer  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
promotion of dialogue.
We  need  to  be  clear  that  sustainable  peace  and 
development  go  hand  in  hand  with  respect  for  human 
rights, democracy and the rule of law. These are universal 
values that no human being should be denied. We must 
not  falter  until  this  goal  is  achieved.  In  2011,  Austria 
was  elected  to  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  fully 
support the Council and its mechanisms, especially the 
universal  periodic  review.  The  Council  is  best  placed 
to  react  swiftly  in  case  of  human  rights  emergencies. 
Its special sessions on Syria and Libya illustrated that 
the  international  community  will  not  turn  a  blind  eye 
on  gross  human  rights  violations  and  indiscriminate 
attacks  against  the  civilian  population.  Human  rights 
abuses  must  not  go  unpunished.  Violations  must  be 
thoroughly  investigated  and  perpetrators  must  be 
held  accountable  before  credible  judicial  institutions, 
including the International Criminal Court.
Our  membership  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
is  an  opportunity  to  continue  working  on  the  key 
priorities  that  Austria  pursued  during  its  Security 
Council membership in 2009 and 2010: the protection of 
civilians, the safety of journalists, the implementation 
of resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security, 
the freedom of religion and belief, and the protection of 
children from violence and abuse.
The  High-level  Meeting  of  24  September  was  an 
important  opportunity  to  renew  our  commitment  to 
the rule of law at the national and international levels. 
It  now  needs  an  adequate  follow-up.  As  chair  of  the 
Group  of  Friends  of  the  Rule  of  Law,  Austria  will 
provide concrete proposals for the upcoming report of 
the Secretary-General.
The various United Nations headquarters in Vienna 
are a hub for promoting peace and security. The work 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  is  more 
relevant than ever. I am pleased that we can now also 
draw on additional services from the new office of the 
Office for Disarmament Affairs established in Vienna.
Austria  is  deeply  concerned  about  programmes 
for  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  proliferation 
activities in several regions of the world. The creation 
of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of 
mass destruction in the Middle East is more urgent than 
ever.  In  that  respect,  let  me  underline  that  Iran  must 
finally give credible evidence for the peaceful nature of 
its nuclear programmeme and engage in earnest in the 
talks  with  the  European  Union  three  plus  one  group. 
The  continued  inability  to  even  initiate  substantive 
16 
12-52402
multilateral disarmament negotiations is unacceptable. 
Austria is committed to working with other interested 
States  to  move  forward  on  that  crucial  issue.  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  continued 
support in that matter.
We need to move beyond a strictly military security 
approach  that  originates  from  the  Cold  War  period.  It 
is  time  to  change  the  discourse  on  nuclear  weapons. 
Any  use  of  nuclear  weapons  would  be  devastating  for 
the whole world in its humanitarian and environmental 
effects. In the twenty-first century, such an existential 
threat 
longer  be  handled 
exclusively by a few States as a national security matter.
to  humankind  can  no 
international 
Austria is committed to strengthening and further 
developing 
law  and  a  humanitarian 
approach  to  advance  the  global  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  agenda.  A  lot  has  been  achieved  in 
the  past  two  decades,  as  evidenced  by  the  successful 
conclusions  of  the  conventions  to  ban  anti-personnel 
mines  and  cluster  munitions.  We  hope  that  similar 
progress can be achieved on the arms trade treaty in the 
coming  months.  Other  Member  States  should  join  the 
emerging consensus on regulating the trade in arms in 
a comprehensive manner.
Vienna  and  its  United  Nations  headquarters  also 
serve  as  a  platform  for  the  discussion  on  sustainable 
development. We welcome the decision of the Secretary-
General  to  establish  an  implementation  office  for  his 
Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative.  That  will  help 
to advance this important agenda. Universal access to 
energy and the improvement of energy efficiency, along 
with a higher share of renewable energy, are goals that 
will help bring electricity to the billion and a half people 
worldwide lacking access. Equally, it will help control 
greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, which 
threaten the very existence of many Member States.
This  year’s  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  marked  the  beginning  of  a 
new era, renewing the prospects for future generations 
via  the  sustainable  development  goals,  as  tailored  to 
the  needs  of  different  countries  or  groups  of  States 
and  regions.  While  implementing  those  new  global 
goals,  we  should  not  cease  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  target  date  of 
2015.
Austria  remains  fully  committed  to  an  effective 
multilateral  system.  Therefore  we  will  support  the 
efforts  of  the  President  of  the  Assembly  and  of  the 
A/67/PV.16
Secretary-General to further increase the effectiveness 
of our Organization in order to better enable us to face 
the challenges of our time.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Samuel Santos López, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr. Santos López (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): 
As I address the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session,  I  would  like  first  of  all  to  convey  the  warm 
greetings and solidarity of the people of Nicaragua and 
its  Government  of  national  reconciliation  and  unity, 
led  by  Comrade  President  Comandante  Daniel  Ortega 
Saavedra, who wishes us success in our work. 
The changes now taking place in science, economy, 
geopolitics,  technology,  ecology  and  culture  are  truly 
revolutions  in  the  life  of  all  human  societies  around 
the world, but they raise doubts about the effectiveness 
of  international  organizations  in  conducting  global 
affairs.  The  situation  in  the  world  today  proves  that 
when governance is conceived and conducted from the 
perspective  of  global  capitalism  —  savage,  as  it  was 
called by His Holiness Pope John Paul II — instead of 
becoming  a  factor  for  positive  transformation,  as  we 
were led to believe it would, it can lead us to the edge 
of civilization.
The vertiginous development of speculative venture 
capital  in  developed  countries  has  reduced  the  role  of 
the  State  in  public  affairs.  The  market  imposes  itself 
in  all  areas  —  the  economy,  politics,  culture,  society, 
individuals and the mass media — thus strengthening the 
influence of the interests of giant corporations involved 
in food production, communications, medicine and the 
military-industrial  complex.  They  are  the  real  power 
in  decisions  having  a  global  impact;  their  decisions 
determine the course of many important events related 
to the economy and to peace. That is totally contrary to 
the idea that gave rise to our Organization. That situation 
is aggravated by the growing sense that, increasingly, 
well-being  and  world  power  are  completely  in  the 
hands  of  market  and  finance  elites,  that  the  people’s 
standards  of  living  are  dramatically  crumbling  and 
that  confidence  in  the  capacity  of  all  Governments  to 
solve  the  most  pressing  problems  is  decreasing  at  an 
accelerating pace.
Mr. Balé (Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The impact of the economic and financial crisis on 
the centres of power of global capitalism is provoking 
12-52402
17
A/67/PV.16
political  and  social  changes  with  great  international 
repercussions.  The  United  States  and  European 
countries, paradigms of that egotistical model, are at a 
loss to find solutions to their structural problems. They 
drag  their  citizens  and  the  world  into  unemployment, 
social 
the 
exclusive nature of the privatization of the State and its 
subjection  to  market  forces,  speculation  and  financial 
fraud becomes clear, demonstrating the urgent need for 
equitable distribution of wealth worldwide.
insecurity  and  greater  poverty.  Thus 
Many outstanding thinkers describe the scenario as 
a struggle between the market and the State. However, 
the paradox is that the very State that wanted to find the 
paradigm for development in the greater comfort of its 
citizens is one that today, without political scruples or 
ethics, develops a new neoliberal programme, disguised 
as  necessary  adjustments  to  save  the  economy  and 
defend  the  citizens.  That  reveals  that  in  developed 
countries, the economy, the market and political power 
are the same thing. In them, the State has evolved only to 
merge into one programme the interests of speculative 
financial  capital,  of  large  global  corporations  and 
industries  and  of  the  military-industrial  complex. 
We  are  certain  that  the  nature  of  these  adjustments  is 
permanent,  and  that  it  is  a  new  economic  agenda  that 
will  direct  the  greatest  concentration  of  power  to  the 
highest  global  level  in  the  quest  to  dictate  the  path  of 
a new capitalist model that in all spheres of life is ever 
more concentrated.
The  world  of  1945,  after  the  Second  World  War, 
gave  rise  to  all  the  institutions  that  constitute  global 
governance,  beginning  with  our  Organization.  That 
world  no  longer  exists.  Thus  today  as  never  before  it 
is imperative that we re-establish a philosophy of firm 
and lasting world peace and of economic development 
for the benefit of all the peoples of the world — that is, 
the philosophy that inspired the founders of the United 
Nations system, the philosophy of global governability 
and management.
In  that  connection,  we  reiterate  the  urgency  of 
making  progress  in  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  or  rather  in  its  reinvention.  Nicaraguans  have 
the honour of having taken the initiative in this matter. 
Our brother, the former Foreign Minister of Nicaragua 
and President of the the General Assembly at its sixty-
third  session,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
together  with  President  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra  and 
other great present-day thinkers, have taken on the task 
of  developing  a  plan  for  the  reinvention  of  the  United 
Nations system. We say “reinvent” because the present 
Organization  no  longer  permits  reforms;  those  that 
have been proposed so far have not made progress, due 
the policy of some permanent members of the Security 
Council.  In  the  name  of  the  people  of  Nicaragua,  I 
invite all to strongly push for that proposal, in order to 
make a reality of a new Charter of the United Nations 
that guarantees democratization of the Organization.
Peace  is  a  supreme  value  and  a  condition  in 
which  human  activity  can  develop  in  a  stable  manner 
beneficial 
for  all.  However,  some  developments 
establish a dangerous path.
We  consider 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade  of  Cuba  a  flagrant  violation  of 
international law and the most basic norms of peaceful 
coexistence.  Furthermore,  today  it  is  claimed  that 
that  blockade  is  based  on  the  arbitrary,  groundless 
and  unilateral  inclusion  of  that  fraternal  country  in  a 
list  of  States  sponsoring  international  terrorism.  We 
demand  the  immediate  and  unconditional  end  of  that 
crime  against  humanity,  which  constitutes  an  affront 
to the conscience of our peoples. We also demand the 
immediate and unconditional release of the five Cuban 
patriots  who  are  unjustly  kept  in  prison  in  the  United 
States of America.
We  demand  respect  for 
the  sovereignty  and 
independence  of  the  fraternal  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela, which faces a wave of conspiratorial actions 
seeking to destabilize and destroy the democratic plan 
of the Bolivarian Revolution and the popular interests, 
thus  undermining  the  enormous  social  and  economic 
gains obtained by the Venezuelan people through great 
effort and courage, with the distinguished leadership of 
President Hugo Chávez Frias.
The  peace  process  in  Colombia  should  be  fully 
supported in order for the people to start on a path of 
true social progress.
International  law  should  be  given  unrestricted 
support  as  regards  the  inviolability  of  Ecuador’s 
diplomatic  Mission  in  the  United  Kingdom.  We  also 
reaffirm  our  support  of  Argentina’s  sovereign  rights 
over the Malvinas Islands and the right of Puerto Rico 
to obtain its full independence.
Bearing  in  mind  the  information  disseminated 
daily  by  the  world’s  main  communication  media,  it 
has  escaped  no  one’s  attention  that  there  is  a  risk  of 
widespread  war  in  the  Middle  East.  The  situation  in 
18 
12-52402
A/67/PV.16
Syria is unacceptable. We strongly condemn the acts of 
terrorism that have cost the lives of high-level officials 
of  President  Bashar  Al-Assad’s  Government  and  of 
the  population  of  Syria.  Nicaragua  recalls  that  it  is  a 
form of aggression that was already condemned by the 
International Court of Justice in 1986 in the case of The 
Republic of Nicaragua v. The United States of America. 
It is evident that the mediation promoted by the United 
Nations  is  going  nowhere,  simply  because  it  is  being 
blocked by the members of NATO and their allies with 
interests in the region. 
A  peaceful  solution  with  regard  to  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  should  be  promoted.  We  need  to 
resolve without delay the aspirations of the Palestinian 
people  by  supporting  the  peace  negotiations  and  their 
legitimate  right  to  their  own  State  and  to  be  part  of 
the United Nations. We strongly condemn the terrorist 
acts  in  Benghazi,  Libya,  on  11  September,  in  which 
United  States  Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  and 
three  other  United  States  citizens  lost  their  lives,  just 
as  we  condemn  any  act  of  terrorism  that  is  an  assault 
on  civilization,  culture,  religion  and  justice  anywhere 
in the world.
We welcome the recent positive developments with 
regard  to  the  relationship  between  China/Taiwan  and 
the People’s Republic of China. We have to address the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  Taiwan  to  participate  more 
broadly in all United Nations specialized agencies and 
organs.
We reaffirm our commitment to total and complete 
disarmament  and  international  security.  A  world  free 
of  nuclear  arms  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  is 
indispensable.
On a different matter, Central America is a transit 
zone for the drugs produced in the South and that find in 
the North, in the United States, their largest consumer 
market and the largest money-laundering operation for 
the  traffic  in  drugs.  Central  America  has  expressed 
the  need  for  destination  countries  to  eradicate  drug 
trafficking  and  consumption  within  their  borders, 
using all the technology and resources at their disposal. 
Likewise, we have agreed to demand economic support 
for  all  of  Central  America  in  its  constant  struggle 
against organized crime and drug trafficking. However, 
the  slow  pace  or  lack  of  commitment  to  that  issue 
does  irreparable  damage,  especially  to  the  peoples 
of  Mesoamerica,  who  have  to  allocate  enormous 
resources for the prohibition and interception of drugs, 
consequently delaying our social investments. 
In  that  scenario,  which  is  not  very  encouraging 
and in which we are far from being triumphant, Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  are  making  great  strides 
in  strengthening  their  economic,  political,  social  and 
cultural  integration  and  unity  through  the  Central 
American Integration System, the Bolivarian Alliance 
for the Peoples of Our America and the Community of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States.  Our  regional 
process  of  integration  and  unity  through  the  Central 
American Integration System advances consistently and 
on solid ground, based on the common objectives that 
further the peace and economic and social development 
of  Central  Americans.  Our  model  for  integration  and 
unity is also evident in the Bolivarian Alliance for the 
Peoples  of  Our  America,  which  has  a  component  of 
fair trade, complementarity, cooperation and solidarity 
among its members. Another expression of this process 
is  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, which was established in 2011 and is convincing 
proof of our integrationist calling. 
The  principles  and  purposes  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned  Countries  constitute  a  broad  common 
platform,  which  has  world  reach  and  is  contributing 
to  the  development  of  a  multipolar  world  and  to  the 
strengthening  of  peace  and  international  security.  In 
that context, our Government of national reconciliation 
and unity, presided over by Comandante Daniel Ortega 
Saavedra,  and  our  people  are  achieving  important 
results in the struggle against poverty. That strengthens 
the  process  of  restoring  rights,  which  translates  into 
more  health,  better  education,  more  productive  and 
service-oriented  infrastructure,  and  a  higher  living 
standard for all our citizens. 
Very  soon  we  will  have  transformed  our  energy 
matrix,  using  sources  of  renewable  energy,  so  that  by 
2017, 94 per cent of energy consumed will be renewable 
energy. We have decided to take the necessary steps for 
the construction of the great inter-ocean canal through 
Nicaragua for ships weighing more than 250,000 tons.
Climate change and all its related effects constitute 
one of the most formidable challenges of our time. The 
developed  countries  should  comply  with  their  legally 
binding  environmental  commitments.  The  valuable 
natural resources of our planet must not be privatized 
in favour of a few.
12-52402
19
A/67/PV.16
Furthermore,  in  times  of  crisis,  we  can  see  that 
we  run  the  risk  of  not  reaching  all  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals that we proposed to reach by 2015. 
We  cannot  allow  that  to  happen.  The  commitments 
of  the  developed  countries  to  allocate  0.7  per  cent  of 
their  gross  national  product  to  official  development 
assistance must be honoured. 
Another  grave  problem  is  that  of  food  insecurity. 
The  food  crisis  is  a  serious  obstacle  in  the  struggle 
against  poverty  and  hunger.  We  must  work  together 
to  universally  restore  that  right  to  the  peoples.  Our 
societies are struggling with the urgency of satisfying 
their most basic needs, with equitable profits from the 
benefits  of  development  and  with  the  importance  of 
developing  democracies  based  on  representation  and 
direct participation of the citizens. That is a road whose 
specificities must be respected without interference of 
any kind. 
Dangers lurk and have resulted in events that do not 
contribute to our political stability. Coups d’état, such 
as those attempted in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador 
or  those  carried  out  in  Honduras  and  Paraguay,  must 
be condemned and rejected, regardless of how they are 
executed or attempted. We cannot allow coups to once 
again  become  entrenched  as  methods  for  a  political 
solution  to  conflicts,  whether  within  any  country  or 
between States.
We cannot ignore that the process of concentration 
of  global  power  has  repercussions  in  the  political 
and  social  systems  governing  our  societies.  The 
final  blow  is  intended  to  destroy  or  break  up  popular 
social  movements  in  order  to  eliminate  States  and 
Governments  that  do  not  align  themselves  with  the 
neoliberal  model.  Therefore,  in  the  progressive  or 
revolutionary  national  projects  manifested  through 
the nation States of our Latin and Caribbean America, 
our  citizens,  our  peoples,  are  called  to  resist  and  to 
raise  banners  of  peace,  dignity,  identity  and  national 
sovereignty.
We are constructing a new world governance with 
our work to transform international institutions. We are 
strengthening a new world governance by incorporating 
more and more citizens in the work of building this new 
world to which we aspire. The present global order and 
its  institutions  are  at  an  impasse.  The  only  headway 
being made is through the new effort I am describing 
to deeply transform the economy, politics, society and 
culture. That effort alone will endure as the fruit of the 
best  of  our  human  nature  and  our  history.  The  other 
world, the world that refuses change, the world of war 
and  human  misery,  the  world  of  the  apocalypse  being 
announced  on  television  as  a  novelty,  will  fail.  The 
hope  and  the  future  for  which  we  struggle  will  grow 
and shine on its remains.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.
Mr.  Lavrov 
(spoke 
(Russian  Federation) 
in 
Russian): For over a year and a half, the situation in the 
Middle East and North Africa has been the nerve centre 
of  global  politics.  The  deep  changes  that  have  swept 
over  the  region  intertwine  with  the  key  problems  of 
modern international relations and require everyone to 
take a comprehensive approach and to reject simplistic 
and ideology-driven patterns and double standards.
Russia has consistently supported peoples in their 
aspiration  to  determine  their  destiny  and  to  pave  the 
way  to  more  effective  models  of  public  governance. 
We  believe  it  is  particularly  important  to  carry  out 
those transformations in a non-violent way and without 
outside  interference.  We  strongly  believe  that  all 
members  of  the  international  community  should  be 
interested  in  making  the  Middle  East-North  Africa 
region  peaceful,  stable,  democratic  and  free  from 
domestic  and  inter-State  conflicts.  So  far,  however, 
there  has  been  no  progress  in  reaching  unanimity  in 
the  efforts  of  outside  players  to  create  conditions  for 
achieving that goal.
Of  particular  concern  is  the  deepening  internal 
conflict  in  Syria.  We  have  consistently  called  for 
consolidated  efforts  by  the  international  community 
to  compel  the  Government  and  its  opponents  to 
immediately cease the violence, come to the negotiating 
table  and  work  out  a  compromise  on  the  content  and 
pace  of  reforms  that  would  satisfy  all  Syrians  and 
ensure the safety and rights of all ethnic and religious 
groups.  That  was  the  substance  of  the  consensus 
recorded in the final communiqué of the Action Group 
for  Syria  (S/2012/523,  annex),  agreed  upon  in  Geneva 
as a follow-up to the Kofi Annan plan.
We  call  upon  all  members  of  the  Action  Group 
to  fully  abide  by  the  commitments  we  all  took  on  in 
Geneva. That is the fastest way to stop the loss of human 
life in Syria. We proposed a Security Council resolution 
endorsing  the  Geneva  communiqué  as  the  basis  for 
negotiations at the beginning of the transitional period, 
20 
12-52402
but  that  proposal  was  blocked.  Those  who  oppose  the 
implementation  of  the  Geneva  communiqué  bear  an 
onerous  responsibility.  They  insist  on  a  ceasefire  by 
the  Government  alone  and  encourage  the  opposition 
to  intensify  hostilities,  in  fact  pushing  Syria  even 
deeper into the abyss of bloody internecine strife. The 
militarization  of  the  conflict  continues,  with  calls  for 
open intervention. 
Extremist  organizations 
including  Al-Qaida 
have  become  more  active  in  Syria.  They  perpetrate 
terrorist  attacks  against  innocent  civilians  and  civil 
infrastructure. The number of war crimes is growing, on 
the part of both Government forces and the opposition, 
as  recorded  in  the  recent  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s commission of inquiry (A/HRC/21/50).
Russia resolutely condemns any violence, wherever 
it  comes  from,  and  is  convinced  that  there  is  still  an 
opportunity  to  undertake  collective  action.  Practical 
steps  to  overcome  the  crisis  need  to  begin  with  a 
comprehensive  ceasefire,  the  release  of  prisoners  and 
hostages and the provision of additional humanitarian 
aid.  That  would  create  the  conditions  to  start  an 
inter-Syrian dialogue. We hope that Lakhdar Brahimi, 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States, will be able to bring his vast 
experience to bear on moving towards an agreement on 
such arrangements, with the support of the international 
community.  Russia  will  provide  its  full  support  to 
promote the success of his mission.
The  changes  taking  place  in  the  Middle  East 
should  not  marginalize  the  Palestinian  problem.  The 
achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting Arab-
Israeli  settlement,  which  should  lead,  among  other 
results, to the establishment of an independent, viable 
and  contiguous  Palestinian  State,  coexisting  in  peace 
and security with Israel, would be a major contribution 
to  the  normalization  of  the  overall  regional  situation. 
The  Arab  Peace  Initiative  fully  retains  its  relevance, 
and we support the efforts of the League of Arab States 
to move it forward.
I also wish to stress the importance of implementing 
the  decision  on  convening  in  2012  a  conference  on 
establishing in the Middle East a zone free of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  and  their  means  of  delivery  (see 
NPT/CONF/2010/50  (Vol.I)).  It  is  clearly  necessary  to 
ensure the participation in the conference of all States in 
the region, and they should agree on key arrangements 
A/67/PV.16
among themselves. In that matter, the League of Arab 
States should play an important role.
On  the  whole,  we  support  closer  ties  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  entities.  I  would  note 
that in our part of the world today a memorandum on 
cooperation  was  signed  between  the  secretariat  of  the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization and the United 
Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations. I am 
convinced that it will increase the efficiency of common 
efforts to ensure stability and security.
All  our  actions  should  be  founded  solidly  on  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  which  makes  no  provision 
for  the  right  to  change  regimes.  It  is  unacceptable  to 
impose a political system on a country and its people. 
Our position was clearly stated by President Vladimir 
Putin  speaking  at  the  Kremlin  on  26  September.  The 
entire sequence of events in the Arab world and other 
regions proves the futility of any such policy, which can 
lead to dangerous interethnic and interreligious clashes 
in international relations. 
We believe it is an obligation of all States to protect 
from provocations and blasphemy the religious feelings 
of  people  of  any  religious  affiliation.  At  the  same 
time,  of  course,  there  can  be  no  justification  for  acts 
of  terror,  regardless  of  where  they  are  committed,  be 
they  in  Libya,  Syria,  Iraq,  Yemen  or  anywhere  else. 
Attacks against diplomats or United Nations personnel 
are absolutely unacceptable.
In general, we are convinced that today, when the 
world is going through a transition period characterized 
by instability in the spheres of the economy, politics and 
inter-civilizational relations, it is particularly important 
for  United  Nations  Member  States  to  be  able  to  rely 
on  accepted  rules  of  conduct  and  to  agree  on  a  joint 
response  to  the  threats  to  global  stability.  We  should 
not  allow  irresponsible  actions  dictated  by  expedient 
interests to shatter the system of international law. The 
world  order  is  threatened  by  arbitrary  interpretation 
of such essential principles as the non-use or threat of 
force,  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  respect  for 
the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States  and 
non-interference in their domestic affairs.
Those are the key principles of the United Nations 
Charter,  which  confers  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security on 
the  Security  Council.  In  advancing  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations, it is essential to preserve the capacity of 
the Security Council to perform those functions. Their 
12-52402
21
A/67/PV.16
erosion would deprive the international community of 
an essential mechanism for developing joint approaches 
to the settlement of crisis situations.
It  is  appropriate  to  mention  the  compulsory 
instruments at the disposal of the United Nations. Under 
the United Nations Charter the imposition of sanctions 
falls exclusively under the jurisdiction of the Security 
Council. Decisions must be made on a collegial basis, 
with  the  understanding  that  sanctions  should  not  lead 
to  isolation  of  the  State  targeted  for  sanctions,  but 
rather  encourage  it  to  engage  in  a  dialogue  to  remove 
questions  that  the  Member  States  may  have.  It  is 
essential  that  sanctions  should  be  well-measured  and 
that they not cause any suffering to the population. In 
the past the Security Council has discussed the issue of 
the humanitarian limits of sanctions, but somehow the 
discussions have faded away. We believe it is important 
to resume them.
Another  issue  that  needs  to  be  discussed  in  the 
Security  Council  is  the  consequences  of  unilateral 
sanctions  imposed  by  a  State  or  a  group  of  States 
sidestepping  the  United  Nations  to  advance  their 
political  goals.  We  have  no  doubt  that  such  sanctions, 
especially  when  they  are  applied  extraterritorially, 
weaken  the  unity  of  the  international  community 
and  undermine  the  effectiveness  of  its  efforts.  For 
many  years,  the  commercial,  economic  and  financial 
restrictions  imposed  by  the  United  States  on  Cuba 
have  remained  an  illustration  of  the  negative  impact 
of  unilateral  sanctions.  Russia,  together  with  the 
overwhelming majority of members of the international 
community, calls for the swift lifting of the blockade, 
which is a relic of the Cold War.
Special  attention  should  be  given  to  the  practical 
enforcement  of  Security  Council  decisions  regarding 
sanctions  against  non-State  actors  and  illegal  cross-
border  formations.  In  general,  the  events  of  recent 
years  have  clearly  shown  that  unilateral  action  which 
violates  international  law  and  circumvents  or  distorts 
the decisions of the Security Council does no good.
Of course, the legal norms of international affairs 
will  be  further  adjusted  as  necessary.  But  these 
transformations  should  be  treated  with  the  greatest 
sense  of  responsibility  and  full  consciousness  of  the 
serious  risks  involved.  Consensus  should  be  the  sole 
route  to  their  adoption.  Violations  of  international 
law  should  not  be  portrayed  as  some  sort  of  creative 
development.
All  of  this  is  related  to  the  debate  regarding  the 
concept of the so-called responsibility to protect. Further 
discussion of this concept should be held on the basis 
of the approach agreed on at the 2005 World Summit, 
which reaffirmed the need to observe the principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations when responding to 
conflicts within States. The protection of civilians is an 
issue far too serious to be exploited to achieve political 
goals.  The  ambiguity  of  the  so-called  responsibility-
to-protect concept can be better understood in light of 
initiatives formulated by Brazil and several other States 
to move towards consensus.
Let  us  not  forget  that  the  founders  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  their  wisdom,  agreed  upon  and  endorsed 
a  Charter  that  enshrined  principles  for  the  regulation 
of  a  multipolar  world  order.  Now  that  the  abnormal 
bipolar  period  of  the  Cold  War  is  over,  and  now  that 
it  has  become  clear  to  all  that  there  is  no  place  for 
monopolarity  in  the  modern  world  and  international 
affairs  can  only  be  polycentric,  we  have  a  unique 
chance to fully implement the original potential of that 
Charter.
This is a difficult challenge. International relations 
are clearly experiencing a lack of credibility. We regard 
this as the main obstacle to practical progress towards 
the  establishment  of  universal  foundations  for  equal 
and  indivisible  security,  whether  in  the  Euro-Atlantic 
area,  Asia-Pacific  region  or  other  parts  of  the  world. 
Such  a  state  of  affairs  clearly  contradicts  the  concept 
of collective security embodied in the Charter and the 
deep interdependence of the modern world, where most 
challenges and threats are common to us all and have a 
cross-border dimension.
Strengthening confidence and collective principles 
in 
international  affairs,  with 
the  emphasis  on 
negotiating the pursuit of compromise solutions, would 
help  substantially  reduce  the  level  of  instability  and 
move forward in the settlement of crisis situations, not 
only in the Middle East, but also with respect to Iran, 
Afghanistan, the Korean peninsula and other situations 
throughout the world.
The  final  goal  of  the  efforts  to  settle  a  conflict is 
to ensure the right to life and other fundamental human 
rights, be they political, economic or social. The events 
of recent years confirm that, without lasting peace and 
sustainable  development,  it  is  impossible  to  ensure 
human  rights.  In  turn,  the  protection  of  human  rights 
should  contribute  to  security  and  development,  rather 
22 
12-52402
than  serve  as  a  pretext  for  illegal  interference  in  the 
domestic affairs of States.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  states 
that  everyone  is  entitled  to  an  international  order  in 
which their rights can be fully realized. Those who use 
military  force  and  sanctions,  bypassing  the  Charter, 
engage in illicit supplies of arms, or provide cover for 
terrorists grossly violate this right.
Russia  stands  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and respect for 
the  traditional  values  on  which  human  civilization  is 
based  and  where  all  world  religions  converge.  This  is 
a moral foundation of modern society. It is the cement 
that  bonds  together  nations  and  peoples.  In  recent 
years, these values have been put to the test by displays 
of  immorality,  extremism  and  racial  intolerance.  Of 
similar  concern  are  the  even  more  assertive  actions 
of  those  who,  citing  freedom  of  speech,  condone  the 
glorification  of  the  Nazis  and  their  accomplices  and 
desecrate  the  memory  of  the  victims  of  the  Second 
World War and the victors of fascism. Such actions are 
incompatible  with  the  obligations  of  States  under  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Let  me  recall  that  the  International  Covenant 
on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  directly  prohibits  the 
propaganda  of  war  and  incitement  of  national  and 
religious  discord.  This  means  that  freedom  of  speech 
and  assembly  cannot  be  used  to  justify  the  promotion 
of Nazi or other radical or extremist views, in violation 
of the basic principles and norms of international law.
Yesterday,  the  Human  Rights  Council  endorsed  a 
resolution  proposed  by  Russia  on  the  interrelation  of 
human  rights  and  traditional  values.  It  is  regrettable 
that  a  number  of  Western  States  voted  against  this 
document, which is especially relevant today.
towards 
genuine 
Progress 
partnership 
in 
international  relations  is  possible  only  on  the  basis 
of  equality  and  mutual  respect.  The  course  of  events 
in  the  world  leaves  no  alternative  for  anyone  but  to 
join  efforts  in  order  to  build  a  stable,  equitable  and 
democratic  international  system.  It  would  be  possible 
to resist this objective trend and try to preserve the old 
order for some time, but such resistance would cost yet 
more  lives,  suffering  and  destruction.  Let  us  display 
our vision and, instead of looking back at the history of 
previous centuries, take the side of the events unfolding 
before us today, and answer the call for strong collective 
statesmanship.
A/67/PV.16
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith, 
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Mr. Sisoulith (Lao People’s Democratic Republic): 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  upon  his  election 
to  serve  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh  session.  It  is  my  firm  belief  that,  with 
his  extensive  experience  and  constructive  initiatives, 
he  will  guide  the  Assembly  towards  achieving  its 
objectives while serving the common interests of all its 
members.
May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 
profound  congratulations  to  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session,  on  the  successful  discharge  of  his 
duties.
Likewise,  I  would  like  to  commend  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  tirelessly  leading  United 
Nations  efforts  to  meet  its  obligations  and  achieve  its 
objectives,  as  well  as  working  to  improve  the  overall 
working methods of the United Nations.
the 
Over 
the  past 
two  years, 
international 
community  has  encountered  complex  challenges  in 
all  areas.  Regional  political  complexity  and  unrest, 
especially  in  the  Middle  East,  seem  unlikely  to  be 
resolved any time soon. The use of violence in any form, 
as  seen  in  attacks  on  diplomatic  compounds  in  Syria, 
is unacceptable to us. In addition, the global economic 
and financial crisis affecting all parts of the world has 
reached  an  alarming  point,  causing  great  concern  for 
all nations, and even for the European Union — a major 
economic force.
the 
Such 
challenged 
crises  have 
capacity 
and  credibility  of  the  existing  global  governance 
mechanisms designed by the international community 
to address global challenges. This is a clear indication 
that our joint efforts and actions have not yet produced 
tangible outcomes.
Negotiations  on  climate  change  have  shown  no 
progress,  although  the  Kyoto  Protocol  is  expiring  this 
year.  Efforts  to  formulate  an  international  instrument 
to  govern  arms  trade  and  prevent  illegal  trading, 
which started some years ago, have also failed. There 
has  also  been  little  commitment  on  the  part  of  the 
developed countries to help the most vulnerable groups 
12-52402
23
A/67/PV.16
of  countries:  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs), 
the landlocked developing countries (LLDCs), and the 
small island developing States.
In  the  light  of  the  current  situation,  it  is  more 
crucial  than  ever  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations, 
the  only  universal  Organization,  in  order  to  increase 
its effectiveness in addressing important global issues. 
To that end, all Member States should strive to extend 
their  full  support  and  cooperation  to  revitalize  the 
United Nations, finding a harmonious balance between 
national and international interests in order to address 
the enormous global challenges in a timely and effective 
manner.
In the current context, regional organizations have 
played  an  increasingly  important  role  in  addressing 
the  global  issues.  In  that  connection,  more  and  more 
countries in the world now attach greater importance to 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
and  the  ever-expanding  ASEAN-initiated  cooperation 
frameworks.  ASEAN  is  entering  a  crucial  stage  in 
implementing  its  leaders’  commitment  to  establishing 
an ASEAN community comprised of three pillars — a 
political-security community, an economic community 
and  a  social-cultural  community  —  by  2015.  I  firmly 
believe  that,  by  utilizing  its  own  resources  combined 
with  external  support,  especially  from  its  dialogue 
partners,  ASEAN  will  be  able  to  realize  its  ultimate 
goal of becoming a community that is politically stable, 
economically  integrated  and  socially  and  culturally 
harmonious, thus contributing to the cause of peace and 
prosperity in the region and the world at large.
As  a  member  of  the  international  community,  the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic has done its utmost 
to  fulfil  its  international  obligations  by  pursuing  a 
policy of cooperation with other countries based on the 
principles  of  equality,  mutual  benefit,  and  respect  for 
the  principles  of  national  independence,  sovereignty 
and  non-interference  in  each  other’s  internal  affairs, 
thus  building  an  international  environment  conducive 
to national development. 
Over  the  past  year,  despite  numerous  challenges, 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has continued to 
enjoy political stability and social order. There has been 
good progress in developing the national economy. That 
has laid a solid foundation for attaining the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015  and  created 
conditions conducive to the country’s graduation from 
least developed country status by 2020.
Despite  those  achievements,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  continues  to  face  numerous 
challenges  and  constraints.  In  addition  to  problems 
resulting from the global and regional economic crises, 
natural  calamities  and  the  remnants  of  war,  such 
as  unexploded  ordnance,  continue  to  harm  people’s 
lives  and  pose  major  obstacles  to  national  social  and 
economic  development,  including  the  attainment  of 
the MDGs. In that regard, we call upon all countries to 
become party to the Convention on Cluster Munitions 
with a view to fully banning the use of such weapons.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  feels 
honoured  to  be  entrusted  with  hosting  the  9th  Asia-
Europe  Summit  Meeting,  which  will  be  held  on 
5 and 6 November in Vientiane, the capital of the Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic.  That  will  provide  a 
great  opportunity  for  the  leaders  of  Asia  and  Europe 
to discuss and exchange their views on global issues of 
mutual interest. 
The  international  community  wishes  to  see  the 
restoration  of  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East. 
The  conflict  between  Israel  and  Palestine  will  not 
be  resolved  without  the  full  implementation  of  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  supporting  the 
establishment of two States, Israel and Palestine, living 
side  by  side  in  peace.  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  membership  of 
Palestine to the United Nations.
The  economic,  financial  and 
trade  embargo 
imposed  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba  has  long  caused 
considerable  hardship  to  the  standard  of  living  of  the 
Cuban  people.  That  embargo  must  be  unconditionally 
and immediately lifted.
Owing 
to 
locations, 
their  geographical 
the 
landlocked  developing  countries  are  among  the  most 
vulnerable Members of the United Nations. The special 
challenges and major development obstacles they face 
are the result of their great distance from world markets 
and  high  transit  transport  costs,  which  impede  their 
national sustainable development efforts. Each year, the 
landlocked countries bear a heavy financial burden in the 
effort  to  improve  their  transit  transport  infrastructure 
network  in  order  to  ensure  that  their  export  products, 
which constitute a crucial part of their national income, 
have  better  access  to  world  markets.  Those  problems 
are  compounded  when  their  national  economies  are 
affected by financial or social crises, natural disasters 
and  climate  change,  inter  alia.  In  addition,  50  per 
24 
12-52402
cent of the LLDCs are also LDCs. I therefore urge the 
international community to devote greater attention and 
provide assistance to that vulnerable group of countries 
through full implementation of the Almaty Programme 
of Action, as well as to play an active part in the 10-year 
review of the implementation of the Almaty Programme 
of Action, to be held in 2014.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  reiterates 
once  again  its  firm  commitment  and  determination 
to  continue  working  closely  with  the  international 
community to build a peaceful world under a just and 
more democratic new order, based on cooperation with 
all  countries  in  tackling  the  various  global  challenges 
facing  us.  I  am  convinced  that  only  through  firm 
determination will we be able to achieve the immediate 
and long-term development objectives and ensure that 
the world is secure, peaceful and prosperous. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Kim  Sung-hwan,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Kim  Sung-hwan  (Republic  of  Korea):  Allow 
me at the outset to express my sincere congratulations 
to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I 
have  every  confidence  that  under  his  able  leadership 
this session will be crowned with great success.
Humankind continues to advance, drawing on our 
collective  wisdom  to  address  challenges  throughout 
human  history.  Although  new  global  challenges  to 
mankind such as climate change, poverty and disease, 
underdevelopment, 
terrorism  and  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  are  now  testing  the 
international community, I have no doubt that we will 
overcome those challenges on our future path.
The  United  Nations,  the  symbol  of  our  collective 
wisdom,  should  take  greater  responsibility  in  coping 
with the challenges. I note with great satisfaction that 
the United Nations is becoming a more accountable and 
trusted international Organization under the prominent 
leadership of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. In that 
regard, I recognize and support the Secretary-General’s 
five-year  Action  Agenda,  which  I  believe  will  guide 
us in addressing current world challenges and onward 
towards the future we are aiming for.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), held in June in Rio de Janeiro, 
represented a critical step forward towards ushering in 
A/67/PV.16
the world we hope for. The outcome document, entitled 
“The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex), 
marks  a  substantial  advancement  for  sustainable 
development. The task before us now is to capitalize on 
our achievements thus far and exert even greater effort 
on  follow-up  actions  such  as  developing  sustainable 
development  goals,  strengthening  the  institutional 
framework and mobilizing finance.
As part of such endeavours, the Republic of Korea 
established the Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI). 
Sixteen countries signed the agreement to establish the 
GGGI on the margins of the Rio+20 meeting, and the 
Institute will be launched as an international organization 
starting in October. The GGGI will engage in a range of 
activities for disseminating the green growth paradigm, 
in  which  the  economy  and  the  environment  form  a 
virtuous  cycle.  Moreover,  the  Korean  Government  is 
prepared  to  step  up  its  contribution  to  international 
efforts  to  achieve  a  sustainable  future  by  hosting  the 
secretariat of the Green Climate Fund. The Republic of 
Korea stands ready to render wholehearted support for 
the successful launch and stable operation of the Fund.
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  keen  on  contributing 
to  the  balanced  and  harmonious  development  of  the 
international  community  and  is  fully  cooperating 
in  such  efforts  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  Korean  Government  continues  to  increase  its 
official  development  assistance  to  help  achieve  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Republic  of 
Korea underscored the importance of inclusive growth 
and development partnership at the 2010 Seoul Summit 
of  the  Group  of  Twenty  and  the  Fourth  High-level 
Forum on Aid Effectiveness, held in Busan in 2011. In 
June, the Global Partnership for Effective Development 
Cooperation was launched for the implementation of the 
Busan commitments. The Busan Forum and the launch 
of the Global Partnership will mark a turning point for 
international  development  cooperation  by  broadening 
our perspective from aid effectiveness to development 
effectiveness.
Our own experience has taught us that investment 
in  education  is  at  the  heart  of  effective  development. 
In that vein, we are confident that the Education First 
initiative of the Secretary-General will, indeed, provide 
a  solid  foundation  for  achieving  the  international 
development  goals.  The  Korean  Government  extends 
its strong support for the initiative.
12-52402
25
A/67/PV.16
The Republic of Korea is also taking an active part 
in the discussions on shaping the post-2015 development 
framework.  We  fully  recognize  the  importance  of  a 
comprehensive  approach  that  takes  into  account  the 
economic,  social  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
sustainable development.
Both  a  sound  historical  consciousness  and  a 
heartfelt soul-searching into any past wrongdoings are 
required in order to establish solid peace and stability 
between nations. A country’s true valour is proven when 
it confronts the dark side of its history and endeavours 
to rectify past wrongdoings.
The  aspiration  for  human  rights,  fundamental 
freedoms and democratic values is the primary driving 
force  for  the  advancement  of  humanity.  Today,  many 
countries have been striving to advocate human rights 
in tandem with democracy. The United Nations, as the 
epicentre  of  the  international  community’s  efforts  to 
promote and protect human rights, has provided timely 
assistance to such countries.
Recently, we witnessed the strong desire of people 
in  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  to  realize  their 
aspirations  for  democracy  and  respect  for  human 
rights.  The  recent  positive  developments  in  Myanmar 
are  also  well  worth  noting  in  that  regard.  However, 
while  those  changes  are  still  unfolding,  enormous 
challenges  and  difficulties  still  lie  ahead.  In  Syria,  a 
great  number  of  civilians  have  been  killed  and  gross 
violations of human rights have been witnessed. With 
high hopes towards the efforts of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria,  the  Korean 
Government  will  stand  by  the  Syrian  people  through 
this  time  of  suffering  together  with  the  international 
community.
The  Korean  Government  expresses  deep  concern 
at the recent attacks against diplomats and diplomatic 
missions  in  several  places.  Such  violence  cannot  be 
justified regardless of the motivation.
Putting  an  end  to  sexual  violence  against  women 
in armed conflict is another issue that warrants serious 
attention.  Wartime  sexual  violence  is  a  fundamental 
infringement of human rights and is, in fact, an affront to 
human dignity and integrity. History has left important 
lessons that warn against such egregious acts.
The  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  urge  the 
United  Nations  system  and  all  Member  States  to  do 
their  utmost  to  put  an  end  to  such  atrocities,  not  only 
by  taking  all  measures  to  protect  women  and  girls  in 
armed conflict, but also by providing effective remedies 
and  reparations  for  victims  and  ending  impunity  by 
bringing the offenders to justice in accordance with the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations.
It is the firm conviction of the Korean Government 
that  respect  for  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty 
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
should be the guiding principle for stable international 
relations. 
No  country  should  abuse 
legal 
procedures or the concept of the rule of law in order to 
infringe  upon  the  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty 
of other countries or distort historical justice.
international 
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  actively  contributing 
to  the  global  efforts  being  undertaken  in  pursuit  of  a 
world  without  nuclear  weapons.  The  Seoul  Nuclear 
Security  Summit  held  last  March  brought  together 
leaders  from  across  the  world  to  galvanize  the  vision 
and the determination of the international community 
to achieve a peaceful world without nuclear terrorism. 
During the Summit, the Korean Government played a 
leading  role  in  forging  a  consensus  to  take  important 
practical  steps,  such  as  the  substantial  reduction  of 
nuclear materials, the promotion of the universality of 
international  conventions  and  cooperation  to  combat 
illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear  materials.  I  am  delighted 
that  the  High-level  Meeting  on  Countering  Nuclear 
Terrorism,  which  was  convened  this  morning,  has 
provided new momentum to further energize the efforts 
seen at the Seoul Summit for the prevention of nuclear 
and radiological terrorism. 
rampant 
such  as 
Furthermore,  existing  and  emerging 
threats 
in  cyberspace, 
transnational 
cybercrime  and  potential  cyber  conflicts,  present 
a  serious  challenge.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that 
the  international  community  address  those  threats. 
By  hosting  the  2013  Conference  on  Cyberspace,  the 
Republic of Korea hopes to contribute in multiple ways 
to the ongoing global efforts to maximize the benefits 
of  digital  networks.  We  further  believe  that  the  event 
will  provide  an  unparalleled  opportunity  to  pool  our 
efforts to cope with threats stemming from the misuse 
of information and communication technologies.
The  North  Korean  nuclear  programme  continues 
to  pose  a  threat,  not  only  to  the  security  of  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  North-East  Asia,  but  indeed  to 
26 
12-52402
the  very  basis  of  the  international  non-proliferation 
regime.  As  long  as  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  continues  to  pursue  its  nuclear  and  missile 
programmes,  achieving  the  goal  of  sustainable  peace 
on the Korean peninsula and in the region will remain 
far  off.  Unfortunately,  the  international  community’s 
aspirations  were  shattered  once  again  when 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  launched  a 
long-range  missile  in  April  2012.  In  response  to  that 
provocative  action,  the  Security  Council  reaffirmed 
that  the  international  community  will  not  tolerate  the 
continued pursuit by the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  of  its  nuclear  and  missile  programmes  by 
issuing a firm and resolute presidential statement in an 
unprecedentedly swift manner (S/PRST/2012/13).
We urge with concern that the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea should take concrete measures aimed 
at denuclearization, which will also open an avenue to 
improving  the  livelihood  of  its  people.  At  the  same 
time,  we  sincerely  hope  that  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  will  listen  to  the  international 
community’s call for the improvement of that country’s 
human  rights  situation,  as  repeatedly  affirmed  in  the 
relevant United Nations resolutions.
As a country that has risen from the ashes of war, 
we  have  learned  the  values  of  peace  and  security.  In 
that context, we earnestly hope to have the opportunity 
to promote such values by serving as a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council for the 2013-2014 term. 
The Republic of Korea is determined to fulfil that role 
with  the  greatest  enthusiasm  and  devotion.  We  hope 
that States Members of the United Nations understand 
and support our bid for membership in the Council.
We  are  united  by  the  ideals  set  out  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  In  pursuit  of  international  peace 
and  security,  the  continued  promotion  of  social  and 
economic  development  and  the  promotion  of  human 
rights,  we  should  embrace  a  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
tolerance,  with  the  United  Nations  at  the  centre  of 
international efforts to that end. The Republic of Korea 
will  persist  in  fully  playing  its  part  in  the  invaluable 
work  of  the  United  Nations,  taking  on  the  various 
challenges that humanity will continue to confront. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Abdullah, 
Vice-Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi Arabia.
A/67/PV.16
Prince  Abdulaziz  bin  Abdullah  (Saudi  Arabia) 
(spoke in Arabic): At the outset, it gives me great pleasure 
to convey to Mr. Vuk Jeremić my sincere congratulations 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-seventh  session.  We  wish  him  every  success 
in  the  performance  of  his  duties  and  responsibilities, 
particularly  under  the  current  critical  circumstances 
in  which  the  international  community  finds  itself  at 
present.  I  would  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my deep gratitude and appreciation to his predecessor, 
Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  who 
fulfilled his mandate with wisdom and professionalism. 
Moreover, it gives me pleasure to commend once more 
the great efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 
serving  the  Organization  and  promoting  its  message 
aimed  at  achieving  international  peace  and  security, 
especially under difficult and critical circumstances. 
The  Palestinian  issue,  which  is  at  the  core  of  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict,  has  been  a  constant  challenge 
for  the  United  Nations  since  its  inception  more  than 
60  years  ago.  The  cause  of  the  stalemate  is  Israel’s 
attitude. We all know how intransigent Israel has been 
in  its  positions,  which  have  undermined  negotiations 
and  have  emptied  all  discussions  of  any  meaning. 
Moreover, Israel has taken unilateral actions that could 
lead to more complications in the occupied Palestinian 
territories  and  to  undermining  the  efforts  of  Arab 
countries  and  others  in  the  international  community 
to reach a just, comprehensive and lasting solution by 
establishing  an  independent,  viable  and  contiguous 
Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital. 
that 
the 
The  situation  requires 
international 
community,  as  represented  by  the  United  Nations, 
move quickly in order to put an end to the calamity that 
the  situation  represents  for  the  Palestinian  people  and 
provide  all  manner  of  support  and  assistance  for  the 
Palestinian Authority. My country finds that Palestine 
must receive full membership in the United Nations, as 
that is its natural and legitimate right, and we should all 
help  the  Palestinians  to  achieve  that  objective.  For  its 
part, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is sparing no effort 
in fulfilling its commitment to the peace process with 
respect to our Palestinian brethren by providing various 
types of support and assistance. 
The issue of Syria is a very complex and exacerbated 
one and has led to the killing and displacement of tens 
of  thousands  of  people.  The  international  community 
has  shown  its  inability  to  act,  because  of  divisions  in 
12-52402
27
A/67/PV.16
the  Security  Council  and  because  of  the  failure  of  all 
Arab  and  international  initiatives  as  a  result  of  the 
intransigence of the Syrian regime, which still believes 
that  it  can  use  the  power  of  its  security  apparatus  to 
end  the  crisis  without  taking  into  account  the  high 
humanitarian cost. 
Since  the  first  day  of  the  crisis,  my  country  has 
been dealing with it in accordance with the framework 
and  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  and  with 
full  respect  for  the  principles  of  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law,  through  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the 
United  Nations  and  the  outcomes  of  the  Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation summit meeting, held in Mecca 
in August, on the status of Syria. 
The success of Joint Special Representative Lakhdar 
Brahimi’s efforts will depend on the implementation of 
a new strategy and a clear plan that aims at achieving a 
peaceful transition of power. The Security Council must 
provide him with the support he needs to deal with the 
Syrian crisis at both the political and the humanitarian 
levels.
We call upon our brothers in Yemen to continue to 
take the same positive and constructive approach and to 
stand against any foreign interference in their internal 
affairs  in  order  to  achieve  security  and  stability  and 
economic development throughout Yemen. Meanwhile, 
we call upon the international community to fulfil its 
pledges  to  Yemen  by  providing  it  with  all  forms  of 
support  and  assistance  to  achieve  those  goals.  Saudi 
Arabia  reaffirms  its  full  support  for  all  international 
efforts undertaken in that context. We hosted the donors’ 
conference,  held  earlier  this  month,  and  participated 
in the Friends of Yemen conference held at the United 
Nations on 27 September 2012.
The  Iranian  nuclear  crisis  is  one  of  the  most 
important  challenges  threatening  international  peace 
and  security  in  general  and  the  security  and  stability 
of  the  Arab  Gulf  region  in  particular.  In  that  context, 
my  country  supports  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  five 
plus  one  group  to  peacefully  resolve  the  crisis  in  a 
manner  that  guarantees  Iran  and  all  countries  in  the 
region the right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, 
in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  procedures  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
under  its  supervision.  On  the  other  hand,  we  urge 
Iran  to  respond  to  those  efforts  and  to  implement  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  by  cooperating 
with IAEA inspectors monitoring its nuclear facilities 
in order to put an end to the crisis.
In 
that  regard,  Saudi  Arabia  reaffirms 
the 
importance  of  making  the  Middle  East  a  zone  free 
from  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. We also stress the need for Israel to place 
its nuclear facilities under the international inspection 
and safeguards of the IAEA and to sign the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
The security and stability of the Arab Gulf region 
will  be  reached  only  through  the  establishment  of 
good  relations  based  on  good-neighbourliness  and 
constructive  cooperation.  Also,  Iran  must  end  its 
occupation of the three islands belonging to the United 
Arab  Emirates.  We  must  solve  that  issue  peacefully, 
either through bilateral negotiations or by referring the 
issue to the International Court of Justice.
The  phenomenon  of  terrorism  is  one  of  the  most 
important challenges that we currently face and the most 
important  issue  confronting  the  entire  international 
community. We must eliminate terrorism in all its forms 
and sources. In order to fight that scourge and uproot 
it  completely,  the  efforts  of  the  Kingdom  have  not 
been limited to fighting it locally. We have reinforced 
efforts  at  all  levels,  whether  regional  or  international, 
including  by  hosting  an  international  conference  in 
2005 that resulted in many recommendations, including 
the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Counter-
Terrorism Centre, which was launched in New York on 
19 September 2011.
Our  world  today  urgently  needs  to  spread  the 
culture  of  tolerance  and  understanding  and  dialogue 
between  the  followers  of  different  religions.  Our 
efforts  in  that  regard  are  led  by  the  Custodian  of  the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz 
Al-Saud,  aimed  at  achieving  a  dialogue  between 
religions and cultures. That was reflected in the 2008 
World Conference on Dialogue, held in Madrid. There 
was also a call for a high-level meeting hosted by the 
United  Nations  to  promote  dialogue  and  tolerance 
between  different  cultures  and  religions.  Our  call  for 
mutual  understanding,  the  acceptance  of  others  and 
coexistence has led to the establishment in Vienna of the 
King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz International Centre for 
Dialogue  among  Followers  of  Religions  and  Cultures. 
In  addition,  the  foresight  of  the  Custodian  of  the Two 
Holy Mosques was demonstrated by his announcement 
of  the  establishment  of  a  centre  for  dialogue  among 
28 
12-52402
A/67/PV.16
Islamic sects at the fourth special session of the Islamic 
Summit Conference, held in Mecca in August 2012.
In  that  regard,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia 
strongly  condemns  the  production  by  an  irresponsible 
group  of  an  offensive  movie  about  the  Prophet 
Muhammad  —  peace  be  upon  him.  The  Kingdom 
asserts  its  rejection  of  all  acts  that  offend  or  disdain 
religions and their sacred symbols. In that context, the 
Kingdom  renews  its  call  to  enact  the  necessary  laws 
and  legislation  that  forbid  the  defamation  and  disdain 
of religions and their sacred symbols.
Meanwhile, 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia 
condemns the acts of violence against the United States 
foreign missions and any attack against any foreign or 
diplomatic  mission  around  the  world  for  any  reason, 
regardless  of  the  disagreement  involved.  Such  acts 
prevent  missions  from  carrying  out  their  diplomatic 
functions and international interests. 
In the light of the ongoing discussion on the question 
of global economic, social and human development, the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  through  its  participation 
in  the  Group  of  Twenty,  emphasizes  its  support  of 
the  efforts  aiming  to  stabilize  the  global  economy,  to 
advance world trade, to take further action to liberalize 
trade and to avoid protectionist policies that impede the 
efforts  to  end  the  global  financial  crisis.  Meanwhile, 
we should not ignore the matter of helping developing 
States to overcome the consequences of that crisis.
Furthermore,  my  country  believes  that  efforts 
to  reform  the  international  financial,  monetary  and 
trade  system  should  be  channelled  through  existing 
institutions in order to build a global economic system 
that is based on a new partnership between developing 
and  developed  countries.  That  partnership  should 
be  established  on  the  basis  of  cooperation,  justice, 
equality, transparency and mutual benefits. 
Concerning energy security, the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia has spared no effort in the pursuit of stability in 
the  world  oil  markets  in  a  manner  that  has  served  the 
development and growth of the global economy. In that 
regard, we cannot ignore the fact that energy security 
is not limited to the security of supply, but includes the 
security  of  demand  as  well.  My  country  believes  that 
there should be a dialogue between energy producers and 
consumers in order to avoid volatility and speculation 
in  prices,  and  to  avoid  imposing  discriminatory  taxes 
on oil. We welcome the establishment of the Secretariat 
of  the  International  Energy  Forum  headquarters  in 
Riyadh in order to promote such dialogue. 
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as one of the United 
Nations  founding  countries,  has  since  its  inception 
participated  in  its  meetings  and  conferences  on  the 
basis of its belief in the Organization’s noble principles 
and the role it can play in service to humanity and its 
advancement.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  will  be  at  the  vanguard  of 
any  international  efforts  aimed  at  implementing  and 
achieving  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations  and  achieving  the  security,  stability  and 
prosperity to which we all aspire.
The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
12-52402
29
