United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
18th plenary meeting
Saturday, 29 September 2012, 9 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.18
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The President: I now give the ﬂ oor to His Excellency 
Mr. Nebojša Kaludjerović, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and European Integration of Montenegro.
Mr. Kaludjerović (Montenegro): It is a great honour 
to deliver these remarks on behalf of Montenegro. At the 
outset, allow me to address two friends and colleagues. 
I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your  election to 
preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. You will enjoy, as always, the full cooperation 
and  support  of  Montenegro  in  this  important  task.  I 
would also like to pay tribute to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  for  his  contribution  to  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly,  especially  in  promoting  mediation 
as a means of settling disputes by peaceful means.
I extend special appreciation to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his efforts to promote multilateralism 
and  joint  action  in  ensuring  a  peaceful,  secure  and 
prosperous  world.  I  would  especially  like  to  reiterate 
our  satisfaction  with  his  recent  successful  visit  to 
Montenegro,  which  confirmed  the  strong  partnership 
between the United Nations and my country.
Montenegro  has  always  been  strongly  committed 
to multilateral cooperation and respect for the purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  have  demonstrated  this  in  our  region  by 
promoting  good-neighbourly  relations  and  regional 
cooperation,  as  well  as  worldwide  through  support 
for  and  participation  in  global  efforts  to  build  and 
maintain peace.
The  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  that 
preceded  the  general  debate  once  again  stressed  the 
importance  of  democratic  governance  and  respect 
for  human  rights.  These  are  preconditions  for  the 
prosperity of all our citizens and of society as a whole. 
Failure  in  this  regard  is  our  common  concern.  We 
therefore  stress  the  individual  responsibility  of  all 
countries  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  promote 
human rights, as well as the role of the United Nations 
in  providing  adequate  and  efficient  support  to  these 
efforts. Respect for the rule of law at the international 
level, national ownership of rule of law activities, and 
the  incorporation  and  effective  implementation  of 
international norms within our domestic legal systems 
are our key objectives.
international 
partnership 
Strengthening 
in 
maintaining  and  building  peace  and  security  is 
crucial.  As  a  Mediterranean  country,  we  share  the 
concerns of the international community for the recent 
developments  in  the  southern  Mediterranean  and  the 
Middle East.
The  scale  and  consequences  of  the  violence  in 
Syria  serve  as  a  stern  reminder  of  the  importance  of 
preventive measures in preserving international peace 
and security; hence the need to enhance United Nations 
preventive  capacities  and  the  role  of  dialogue  and 
mediation in peaceful conflict resolution. Montenegro 
strongly  advocates  an  approach  that  emphasizes  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52443 (E)
*1252443*
A/67/PV.18
early prevention and elimination of threats before they 
evolve into sources of conflict.
to 
and 
The 
protect 
responsibility 
its 
operationalization  remain  a  key  task.  In  the  era 
of  accountability,  perpetrators  of  crimes  against 
humanity  should  not  go  unpunished.  Countries  need 
to  demonstrate  strong  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law, 
respect for human rights and freedoms, democracy and 
non-use of force in settling disputes.
Montenegro stands ready to increase its participation 
in  peacekeeping  operations,  in  accordance  with  its 
capacities  and  in  line  with  international  efforts.  We 
support  in  particular  United  Nations  initiatives  aimed 
at  improving  civilian  protection  and  the  development 
of  civilian  capacities  for  maintaining  stability  by 
advancing  the  mandates  of  peacekeeping  missions. 
In  that  context,  we  fully  support  the  implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and 
strengthening  the  role  of  women  in  conflict  and  post-
conflict situations.
My country is firmly dedicated to the comprehensive 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations 
sanctions  regime.  With  regard  to  the  Global  Strategy 
review, we fully endorse the proposal of the Secretary-
General to appoint a United Nations counter-terrorism 
coordinator in order to improve strategic coordination, 
coherence  and  substantive  implementation  of  the 
Strategy.
We strongly support global efforts for disarmament 
the 
and  non-proliferation,  while 
fight  against  transnational  threats,  such  as  human 
trafficking,  cybercrime  and  the  illicit  drug  trade, 
require a comprehensive approach.
stressing 
that 
As  a  multicultural  country,  Montenegro  builds 
its  society  on  principles  of  understanding,  tolerance 
and  mutual  respect.  Diversity  does  not  divide  but 
enriches our society, thanks to tradition and trust built 
throughout  the  long  Montenegrin  history.  As  we  have 
recently  witnessed,  differences  can  be  abused  and 
easily  turn  into  senseless  acts  of  violence  against  the 
innocent, which is unacceptable. My country therefore 
remains committed to promoting intercultural dialogue, 
tolerance and respect at all levels.
In  the  six  years  following  the  restoration  of  its 
independence,  Montenegro  has  achieved  significant 
progress,  both 
in 
international  relations.  We  have  very  good  relations 
internal  development  and 
in 
with  all  our  neighbours,  while  the  region  as  a  whole 
stands before a unique challenge to demonstrate that it 
is capable of reinforcing overall cooperation.
Montenegro  actively  participates  in  all  regional 
processes and initiatives aimed at intensifying mutual 
and  constructive  cooperation  and 
strengthening 
security  and  stability  in  South-East  Europe.  After 
its  turbulent  past,  the  region  is  brought  together  by 
the  common  strategic  goal  of  European  integration. 
Although  there  remain  issues  that  need  international 
assistance  and  support,  we  have  achieved  a  new 
level  of  trust,  development  and  maturity  that  have 
resulted  in  the  individual  progress  of  each  country  in 
European  and  Euro-Atlantic  integration.  The  opening 
of European Union accession negotiations in June this 
year and our continuous progress on our Euro-Atlantic 
path represent strong recognition of the results we have 
achieved.  We  are  fully  focused  on  and  committed  to 
continuing the implementation of reforms and reaching 
the highest international standards, in particular in the 
areas of the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, and 
democratic governance. Strengthening institutional and 
human  capacities  will  reinforce  our  political  stability 
and economic prosperity, as is essential in this time of 
ever-evolving crises that affect us all.
Progress in the integration processes does not mean 
the  absence  of  problems.  We  attach  great  importance 
to resolving issues essential for the development of our 
society, such as the empowerment of women, improving 
the  situation  of  the  Roma  population,  and  settling  the 
status of refugees, internally displaced persons and other 
vulnerable groups. We are fully committed to tackling 
these complex challenges through efficient and lasting 
solutions  and  models  for  the  better  social  integration 
of  every  individual.  We  are  particularly  aware  of  this 
at times when social and economic disparities become 
more visible and demand stronger efforts by the State 
for their elimination.
The  promotion  of  and  respect  for  human  rights 
are  important  goals  in  our  internal  and  foreign  policy 
agenda.  We  are  therefore  confident  that  Montenegro 
will  gain  the  trust  of  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  this  coming  November  and  be  elected  to  the 
Human Rights Council for the period 2013-2015. We are 
strongly committed to contributing to the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the Council and the system of protection 
and  improvement  of  human  rights  and  freedoms. 
Support for the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights,  full  cooperation  with  the  Council  and 
2 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
its special procedures, and active promotion of human 
rights  and  freedoms  at  the  international  level  in  order 
to  respond  in  a  timely  manner  to  situations  of  human 
rights  violations  in  the  world  —  these  will  be  major 
guidelines for our activities in the Council.
partnerships with civil society and the private sector so 
as to enable us to achieve sustainable energy for all by 
2030,  as  well  as  the  Zero  Hunger  Challenge  launched 
by the Secretary-General, are our common objectives. 
Together we can achieve those goals.
The  results  of  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Delivering  as  One  reform  programme  speak 
in  favour  not  only  of  reform  of  the  Organization, 
but  also  of  even  greater  effectiveness  in  adapting 
the  United  Nations  to  the  development  needs  of  a 
country.  Montenegro  has  achieved  tangible  progress 
in  implementing  an  integrated  programme  and,  to 
a  certain  extent,  is  already  implementing  the  joint 
programming  model  as  a  next  phase  of  Delivering 
as  One.  Strengthening  national  ownership  and  joint 
programming,  as  well  as  making  use  of  the  relative 
advantages  of  the  various  United  Nations  agencies, 
are  fundamental  principles  on  which  our  cooperation 
programme  is  based  up  to  2016.  We  will  continue  to 
support  all  efforts  aimed  at  improving  the  United 
Nations  system  and  its  effectiveness  and  operational 
activities in the field.
Sustainable  development,  poverty  reduction  and 
economic growth, conflict and post-conflict situations 
are  just  some  of  the  issues  that  require  joint  action. 
In  that  context,  sustainable  development  with  all  its 
pillars stands out as our priority. Montenegro is among 
the countries that are on track to meet the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). In that regard, we stress 
the  importance  of  the  MDGs  as  a  basis  for  defining 
sustainable development goals, which must be a central 
part  of  the  global  post-2015  development  agenda  and 
thus  help  us  to  form  a  clear  expression  of  political 
commitment  to  sustainable  development.  We  stand 
ready to actively contribute to shaping and determining 
the  necessary  indicators,  as  well  as  timelines  for 
their  implementation.  We  believe  that  the  question 
of  sustainable  development,  as  well  as  the  issue  of 
reaching legally binding agreements on climate change 
within  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, must involve compromise on the part 
of United Nations Members. We therefore hope to see 
positive developments at the Doha Conference.
A shared determination, openness and willingness 
to  reach  compromise  and  accept  reality  are  all  truly 
necessary  in  order  for  us  to  move  forward.  Our 
commitment  to  meeting  the  MDGs  should  not  be 
neglected, however difficult the economic and financial 
situation worldwide. Eradicating poverty, and creating 
At  a  time  when  interdependence  and  integration 
are  major  trends  in  global  politics,  no  country  on  its 
own can handle the increasingly demanding challenges 
posed by modern society. Cooperation is a prerequisite 
for  success.  I  am  confident  that  small  countries  like 
Montenegro can play an important role and be part of 
the  solution.  We  remain  dedicated  to  the  principles  of 
cooperation and mutual trust, and strongly committed 
to  contributing  to  strengthening  the  United  Nations 
system  and  its  role  in  global  governance,  at  both  the 
national and the international levels.
Before I conclude, allow me to add a small, personal 
note.  The  first  time  I  attended  the  General  Assembly, 
I  was  an  attaché  from  the  then  Socialist  Federative 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  Today,  many  years  and  three 
different  States  later,  I  have  the  privilege  of  standing 
before  the  Assembly  as  head  of  the  delegation  of  my 
country, Montenegro. The world may have changed in 
ways  we  never  anticipated,  but  our  Organization  and 
what  it  stands  for  have  weathered  the  challenges  and 
remain  globally  important  and  equally  valuable  for 
every one of us.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Össur Skarphéðinsson, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and External Trade of the Republic of Iceland.
Mr.  Skarphéðinsson  (Iceland):  It  is  a  pleasure  to 
be  able  to  address  the  General  Assembly  here  on  this 
beautiful morning in New York, and I would first like 
to  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh  session.  Be  assured  that  the  Icelandic 
delegation will assist you in every way possible.
Last  year,  I  brought  the  Assembly  the  message 
that my Government would propose to our Parliament 
that  Iceland  recognize  Palestine  as  a  sovereign  and 
independent State. I am happy to be able to stand here 
today and say that we have fulfilled that promise. What 
is more, not a single member of the Icelandic Parliament 
voted  against  the  recognition  of  Palestine.  Today,  we 
have  a  fully  fledged  and  strong  formal  diplomatic 
relationship between our two countries of Palestine and 
Iceland.
12-52443
3
A/67/PV.18
The  United  Nations  recently  estimated  that  Gaza 
will no longer be livable by 2020 unless urgent action 
is  taken  to  improve  water  and  power  supplies,  health 
and  basic  education.  The  deplorable  living  conditions 
described in that report demonstrate only too well that 
the  situation  in  Palestine  is  unacceptable  to  anyone 
who has respect for human dignity. I have visited Gaza 
myself. I met with fishermen who are not allowed to go 
fishing in the waters out of Gaza. As an old fisherman 
myself,  that  hurts  my  heart.  l  met  children  in  Gaza 
whose  lives  are  made  impossible  by  poverty,  violence 
and a blockade that others have described as an open-
door prison. I have seen for myself how the human rights 
of the people of the West Bank are violated every day 
by  a  man-made  barrier  that  cuts  through  their  roads, 
their lands and their lives.
When  I  was  in  Qalqilya,  the  words  of  a  former 
statesman we all know rang in my head. Mr. Netanyahu, 
tear down this wall! I also know that the Israeli people 
are just like the rest of us. They want to live in peace, 
and  they  deserve  it.  The  best  way  to  ensure  that  is  a 
two-State  solution,  which  would  benefit  not  only  the 
Palestinian people but the Israeli people as well.
I  had  the  pleasure  of  listening  to  Mr.  Netanyahu’s 
speech  on  Thursday  (see  A/67/PV.12),  and  I  have  a 
comment  to  make  on  behalf  of  the  Icelandic  people: 
Do  not  bomb  Iran.  Not  this  year,  not  next  year.  Do 
not  start  another  war  in  the  Middle  East.  At  the  same 
time,  I  say  to  President  Ahmadinejad  and  the  Iranian 
leadership:  do  not  build  a  bomb.  Let  diplomacy  work, 
not  rabble-rousing  or  fear-mongering.  Let  us  work  for 
peace together.
We  have  seen  fundamental  changes  break  forth 
with  the  Arab  Spring,  as  demonstrated  by  democratic 
elections.  Democracy  only  matures  and  gets  better 
with time, and the Arab Spring is just beginning. In a 
democracy everyone has a place and a role. As friends 
and  supporters  we  urge  everyone  to  ensure  that  the 
Arab  Spring  will  advance  the  rights  of  all  people, 
working towards societies characterized by democracy 
and social justice, where our sisters in the Arab world 
are allowed to thrive in the same way as our brothers, 
and where women and men enjoy equal rights.
Sadly,  there  is  no  spring  in  Syria.  Thousands 
of  innocent  people,  not  least  innocent  children,  are 
losing their lives because of an oppressive regime. The 
international  community  must  make  a  stronger  and 
better effort to seek a political and peaceful solution for 
the sake of those children and the people of Syria. We 
must also ensure that those who commit atrocities, on 
both sides, will at the end of the day account for their 
actions in an international court of law.
The  Syrian  problem  is  also  a  wake-up  call  for  the 
United  Nations  with  regard  to  the  Security  Council. 
Syria has demonstrated how archaic the Council is, and 
how  out  of  tune  with  the  needs  of  the  modern  world. 
The  truth  is  that  the  Security  Council  has  become  an 
obstacle to the international efforts to address and solve 
situations  such  as  that  in  Syria.  We  must  reform  it  so 
as to make it a tool for, not a hindrance to, progress in 
situations such as that in Syria this year, or as we saw 
last year concerning the Palestinian application.
Let  me  also  add  on  behalf  of  the  Icelandic  people 
that  we  must  always  oppose  terrorism  and  violence  in 
any form. I think that we should all unite in condemning 
the  ghastly  murder  of  the  American  Ambassador  in 
Libya recently. Our embassies, our tools to work for the 
people for peace, must always be inviolable.
Iceland is an open and embracing society, and our 
foreign  policy  is  based  on  human  rights  for  everyone. 
From  the  point  of  view  of  human  rights,  it  is  not 
acceptable  that  anyone  is  persecuted  or  mistreated 
because  of  her  or  his  sexual  orientation  or  gender 
identity.  The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
guarantees  equal  treatment  and  non-discrimination  to 
all  people,  and  we,  the  community  of  nations,  must 
ensure  that  equal  treatment  in  every  sense  of  that 
word  extends  as  well  to  sexual  orientation  and  gender 
identity.  Let  us  not  forget  that  we  all,  every  human 
being, are sparks from the same sun.
Small  countries  can  be  global  pioneers.  Iceland 
demonstrated that by breaking the ice for the recognition 
of the Baltic States, by introducing geothermal energy 
as  an  alternative  in  the  world’s  quest  for  clean  power, 
and  by  leading  by  example  in  the  fight  for  gender 
equality.
I  am  quite  happy  to  relate  that  now,  on  this  very 
is  embarking  on  a  pioneering 
morning,  Iceland 
programme  regarding  clean  renewable  energy  for  up 
to  150  million  Africans.  Iceland  has  ensured  funds 
to  work  with  the World  Bank  to  assist  13  countries  of 
the  East  African  Rift  Valley  to  identify,  research  and 
prepare  their  considerable  geothermal  resources  for 
utilization. That will be the greatest and most historic 
project Iceland ever has cooperated on with developing 
countries. I can express the feeling today that Iceland is 
very proud of it.
4 
12-52443
It may sound like a paradox, but when we in Iceland 
put  our  expertise  in  geothermal  energy  to  use  in  East 
Africa,  we  are  also  protecting  the  environment  of  our 
own  neighbourhood,  the  Arctic.  The  ice  is  melting  at 
a pace far greater than we ever anticipated. We do not 
need  to  be  prophets  to  predict  that  in  the  Arctic  vast 
areas  will  open,  and  sooner  rather  than  later,  for  new 
transport routes between continents and for production 
of  oil  and  gas.  Of  course,  that  may  bring  immense 
commercial benefits to the people living in and around 
the Arctic. But we are also acutely aware of the dangers 
to  the  fragile  Arctic  ecosystem  and  to  the  traditional 
livelihood of Arctic peoples. I tell the Assembly today 
that we have to tread very carefully in the Arctic. It is 
in  the  interest  of  all  nations  to  ensure  that  the  Arctic 
Council  becomes  strong  enough  to  provide,  in  the 
future,  the  forum  for  shaping  important  decisions  on 
common interests of all the Arctic peoples.
Times have been pretty tough in Iceland in recent 
years.  In  the  recession  in  Europe,  we  were  the  first 
country  down,  but  we  were  also  the  first  country  up. 
If  there  is  any  lesson  to  be  drawn  from  the  Icelandic 
recovery, it is that austerity does not work on its own. 
Iceland  certainly  went  through  its  share  of  austerity, 
but  we  also  raised  taxes,  especially  on  the  wealthiest 
citizens, and we used the revenue to stimulate growth 
and  ensure  that  the  welfare  system  was  intact.  Today, 
Iceland  has  some  of  the  lowest  unemployment  in 
Europe  and  robust  economic  growth.  The  Icelandic 
model works.
Perhaps  the  best  sign  that  Iceland  is  back  in 
business  is  the  fact  that  while  the  global  recession 
has, sadly, led to a decline in international support for 
developing countries, Iceland is bucking that trend. We 
are increasing ours substantially.
Finally,  the  first  letters  of  the  themes  that  I  have 
broached  here  today  —  Palestine,  energy,  the  Arctic, 
climate change and the economy — form the word we 
should  all  hold  dearest  towards  each  other,  whatever 
our differences, that is, peace.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Kairat Umarov, Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Umarov  (Kazakhstan):  On  behalf  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  Jeremić,    on  your  election  to  the  presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, as 
well as to wish you every success. I also wish to express 
A/67/PV.18
our  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session,  for  his  skillful  steering  of  the 
Assembly’s proceedings.
In  recent  years,  the  world  has  lived  through 
major  political,  social,  economic  and  environmental 
upheavals.  The  geopolitical  turmoil  in  the  Middle 
East, as well as natural and man-made disasters, serve 
as  compelling  evidence  indicating  that  the  issues  of 
security,  stability  and  sustainable  development  are 
becoming increasingly relevant.
We  believe  that  world  politics  should  be  based  on 
new global principles. In the twenty-first century, those 
principles  encompass  constructive  multipolarity  and 
transparency, trust and political tolerance, and the clear 
pre-eminence  of  evolutionary  forms  of  development 
of  the  world.  They  should  be  enshrined  in  the  core 
documents  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  the  entire 
international  law  system.  In  that  context,  we  believe 
that  it  is  fundamentally  important  to  ensure  strict 
adherence  to  the  principle  of  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of Member States.
The  threat  of  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons 
and  technology,  along  with  the  spectre  of  their 
acquisition  and  use  by  terrorist  entities,  has  been  one 
of  the  most  daunting  challenges  to  humankind.  It  is 
our strongly held view that the possession of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  is  not  a  guarantee  of  security  or 
greater independence. Kazakhstan’s own record shows 
that countries reap huge benefits from the renunciation 
of nuclear weapons. By voluntarily giving up the world’s 
fourth-largest  nuclear  arsenal  and  shutting  down  the 
largest  test  site  in  Semipalatinsk,  on  29  August  1991, 
we  have  won  more  friends  and  have  become  a  more 
prosperous, stable and inf luential country.
Kazakhstan 
fully  supports 
the  proposal  by 
the  Secretary-General  to  adopt  a  nuclear  weapons 
convention. Sharing its declared goals, His Excellency 
Mr. Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, President of the Republic 
of  Kazakhstan,  suggested  that,  as  an  important  step 
in  that  direction,  the  United  Nations  should  adopt  a 
universal  declaration  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world. 
That  would,  undoubtedly,  facilitate  our  advancement 
towards  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world  and  an  early 
adoption of a nuclear weapons convention. Kazakhstan 
welcomes the establishment of a constructive dialogue 
with the five nuclear Powers with a view towards signing 
a protocol on negative security assurances to the State 
12-52443
5
A/67/PV.18
parties to the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in 
Central Asia.
We also call for an early establishment of a nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the Middle East. In that regard, we 
look  forward  to  the  upcoming  conference  in  Helsinki 
and its positive outcomes.
on 
the 
Kazakhstan 
is  working 
practical 
implementation  of  a  project  to  host  an  international 
bank  of  low-enriched  uranium,  under  the  auspices  of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency, which would 
allow, if need be, to ensure an uninterrupted supply of 
nuclear fuel. It should be made clear that the bank will in 
no way infringe upon the inalienable right of each State 
party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, 
including the development of nuclear technology.
This year, we will complete the project to enhance 
physical security of the former Semipalatinsk test site. 
We view this project, which is being implemented jointly 
with  the  United  States  and  Russia,  as  our  significant 
contribution to the global non-proliferation regime.
Kazakhstan  is  actively  involved  in  the  fight 
against  international  terrorism  and  drug  trafficking, 
within  the  framework  of  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty  Organization, 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization  and  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and 
Confidence-building  Measures  in  Asia  (CICA).  As 
Chair  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization, 
Kazakhstan  consistently  works  to  strengthen  regional 
cooperation in this area. Special attention has been paid 
to  the  expansion  of  practical  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  arrangements,  including, 
in  particular,  the  Kazakhstan-based  Central  Asian 
Regional Information and Coordination Centre for the 
fight  against  the  threat  of  drug  trafficking,  which  is 
designed to enhance multilateral cooperation to counter 
the flow of drugs from Afghanistan.
Given the increasing attention by the international 
community  to  the  issue  of  international  information 
security, we believe that the time has come to consider 
the introduction of new concepts into international law, 
such  as  electronic  borders  and  electronic  sovereignty, 
as well as the establishment of a cyberpolice unit.
As  the  current  Chair  of  the  Council  of  Foreign 
Ministers of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 
Kazakhstan will continue to fully support the process 
that aims to bring stability and peace back to the region 
of the Middle East and North Africa.
Before I turn to regional issues, let me express our 
strong condemnation of the Internet video and cartoons 
that  provocatively  offend  the  religious  feelings  of 
Muslims.  Such  disgusting 
incitements  must  be 
stopped, because they lead to an escalation of violence 
by  fomenting  hatred  between  the  representatives  of 
religions,  and 
inter-civilizational 
dialogue and confidence-building. The right to freedom 
of expression must be exercised with due responsibility.
they  undermine 
We  were  shocked  by  the  tragic  killing  of  United 
States  diplomats  in  Benghazi.  We  condemn  attacks 
on  diplomats  and  diplomatic  missions  and  call  upon 
Governments to adhere to their international obligations 
to protect diplomatic representatives in their countries.
We  should  support  all  efforts  to  find  a  peaceful 
solution to the conflict in Syria and assist in preventing 
a humanitarian disaster. We should also take measures 
to  prevent  any  spillover  of  the  crisis  to  the  rest  of  the 
region.  To  that  end,  both  the  Syrian  Government  and 
the  opposition  should  resort  to  diplomacy,  not  arms, 
and put an immediate end to the violence.
The principles of sovereignty and non-interference 
in  internal  affairs  must  be  respected.  It  is  the  Syrians 
themselves  who  should  determine  the  future  of  their 
country.  We  call  on  all  nations  to  unite  around  the 
Syrian  transition  process,  which  should  be  based  on 
dialogue and compromise, and support the activities of 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar 
Brahimi.
Kazakhstan  calls  for  the  creation  of  conditions 
to  settle  the  Palestinian  issue,  including  through  the 
continuation  of  direct  Palestinian-Israeli  talks.  All 
obstacles to the negotiation process should be removed. 
Kazakhstan has been and continues to be a supporter of 
the legitimate rights of Palestine to establish a sovereign 
and independent State, within the 1967 borders, and its 
entry into the United Nations as a full member.
We  have  consistently  advocated  a  peaceful, 
exclusively  diplomatic,  resolution  of  the  situation 
around the Iranian nuclear programme and look forward 
to  the  continuation  of  constructive  dialogue  between 
Iran and all interested parties with a view to developing 
mutually acceptable solutions.
The reconstruction of Afghanistan is an important 
objective of the international community that meets the 
aspirations of the Afghans themselves. We believe that, 
6 
12-52443
if our cooperation on Afghanistan is to be successful, 
its economic dimension should be a priority. Efforts to 
stabilize  the  situation  should  be  bolstered  by  reforms 
aimed at sustainable development and the improvement 
of socioeconomic indicators in the country, its level of 
education and other human standards.
Kazakhstan is also actively involved in multilateral 
cooperation  to  assist  Afghanistan,  as  demonstrated 
by  its  readiness  to  host,  in  2013  in  Astana,  the  next 
conference of the Istanbul process.
Almaty,  the  southern  megalopolis  of  Kazakhstan, 
has the necessary facilities to accommodate the offices 
of  international  organizations.  Sixteen  organizations 
of the United Nations family have already set up their 
offices in the city. Most of them enjoy a regional status. 
We promote further expansion of the presence of United 
Nations  organizations, 
its  humanitarian 
agencies,  and  offer  to  establish  a  United  Nations 
centre  in  Almaty,  in  order  to  effectively  coordinate 
international  efforts  and  implement  regional  projects 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  those  dealing  with 
assistance to Afghanistan.
including 
This year, we mark the twentieth anniversary of the 
initiative to convene the Conference on Interaction and 
Confidence-building Measures in Asia, announced by 
President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev  at  the  forty-seventh 
session of the General Assembly, on 5 October 1992 (see 
A/47/PV.24).  The  anniversary  session  and  the  fourth 
meeting  of  CICA  Foreign  Ministers,  held  in  Astana 
on  12  September,  have  become  important  milestones 
in  the  evolution  of  that  Asian  forum.  Currently,  the 
Conference  brings  together  24  countries  that  occupy 
over 90 per cent of the territory of Asia, where half of 
the  world’s  population  now  resides.  As  a  platform  for 
dialogue, CICA has an important role to play in efforts 
to ensure peace, security and stability in Asia.
(LLDCs)  and  small 
Kazakhstan urges that close attention be paid to the 
expansion of the trade, investment and transit transport 
capacity  of  least  developed  countries,  landlocked 
developing  countries 
island 
developing  States.  To  advance  the  interests  of  these 
groups  of  countries,  Kazakhstan,  together  with  the 
United Nations, organized, from 12 to 14 September in 
Almaty,  the  fourth  meeting  of  LLDC  Trade  Ministers 
and 
thematic  meeting  on 
international trade, trade facilitation and aid for trade.
the  high-level  global 
Today, the whole world is facing new challenges to 
global energy security. Central Asia has great potential 
A/67/PV.18
to  become  a  global  energy  centre.  The  development 
of  energy  resources  is  a  priority  for  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan. In our vision, the future of the region lies 
in the development of the oil and gas pipeline system to 
deliver our hydrocarbon resources to Europe and Asia.
As  a  follow-up  to  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development and to draw the attention 
of  the  international  public  to  the  issues  of  renewable 
sources  of  energy,  Kazakhstan  has  decided  to  seek 
the  nomination  of  its  capital,  Astana,  as  the  host  of 
the  international  exhibition  Expo  2017  on  the  subject 
of  “Energy  for  the  Future”.  We  count  on  fellow 
Member States to support our bid. As one of the pilot 
countries selected from among States Members of the 
United Nations, Kazakhstan will actively promote the 
development of draft sustainable development goals for 
the period beyond 2015.
Kazakhstan  is  not  only  in  a  position  to  ensure  its 
own  food  security;  it  is  also  willing  to  contribute  to 
global food security.
Intercultural dialogue is an important prerequisite 
for  peace  and  security.  To  promote  such  dialogue, 
Kazakhstan  put  forward  an  initiative  to  proclaim  an 
International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures 
2013-2022, which was adopted at the conclusion of the 
thirty-sixth session of the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization  General 
Conference, in November 2011.
Kazakhstan  attaches  special  importance  to  the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  has  announced  its 
bid  for  membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  the  period  2012-2015.  If  elected,  Kazakhstan  will 
participate,  with  a  full  sense  of  responsibility,  in  the 
proceedings  of  that  important  human  rights  body,  on 
the  basis  of  an  open,  impartial,  non-politicized  and 
mutually  respectful  dialogue  between  the  Member 
States of the United Nations.
Last March, the Republic of Kazakhstan celebrated 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  its  membership  in  the 
United  Nations.  All  these  years,  we  have  consistently 
stood  for  an  inclusive,  transparent  and  effective 
Organization.  We  strongly  believe  that  it  is  only  by 
uniting  our  efforts  that  we  can  make  real  progress  in 
addressing  the  global  issues  and  challenges  facing 
humanity.  We  therefore  call  for  joint  efforts  to  seek 
solutions to common problems for the benefit of future 
generations and our common planet Earth. 
12-52443
7
A/67/PV.18
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr.  Hor  Namhong  (Cambodia):  On  behalf  of 
my  delegation,  please  allow  me  to  extend  our  sincere 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. I have no doubt that under your able leadership 
this  session  will  yield  fruitful  outcomes.  I  would  also 
like to convey my admiration to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for 
his untiring efforts to overcome the many multifaceted 
challenges confronting our world today.
Let  me  start  with  the  obvious.  The  twenty-first 
century  we  live  in  is  facing  one  of  its  most  difficult 
moments.  Never  before  has  the  pressure  of  global 
interdependency been so intense. As economies become 
more and more interdependent, not only are opportunities 
to  create  wealth  multiplied,  but  so  are  opportunities 
to  transmit  destabilizing  shocks  from  one  country  to 
another.  Imbalances  and  risks  are  omnipresent.  In  the 
context of declining economic prospects and mounting 
global  challenges,  collective  actions  are  required  to 
remedy  the  shortcomings  of  global  governance  in 
ensuring systemic financial stability, a stable monetary 
system  and  the  regulation  of  international  financial 
markets, and in dealing with major systemic shocks. The 
multilateral  system,  devised  more  than  half  a  century 
ago,  is  facing  challenges  to  its  capacity  to  deliver  on 
its  mandate  as  the  international  agenda  has  become 
increasingly complex. Clearly, the current multilateral 
system  needs  to  be  radically  reformed  and  made  into 
a well-coordinated and permeable body of institutions 
that  can  deliver  innovative  and  feasible  solutions  to  a 
globalized international society.
In order to respond to systemic risk in the financial 
sector,  we  have  closely  cooperated  with  China,  Japan 
and  the  Republic  of  Korea  within  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  to  strengthen  a 
regional  financial  safeguard  mechanism,  called  the 
Chiang  Mai  Initiative  Multilateralization,  which  has 
recently  increased  its  funding  level  from  $120  billion 
to  $240  billion.  We  strongly  believe  that  that  regional 
financial  arrangement  will  complement  the  global 
firewall for regional crisis resolution. ASEAN has also 
established a macroeconomic and finance surveillance 
office in Singapore to achieve a more integrated, even-
handed and effective surveillance mechanism.
As  we  all  struggle  to  overcome  the  effects  of  the 
global financial crisis, we should not lose sight of new 
emerging  challenges  and  threats,  such  as  obstacles 
to  sustainable  development,  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  climate 
change,  food  security  and  so  on.  Many  developing 
countries  still  face  many  obstacles  to  achieving  all 
their MDGs by the target date of 2015, owing to their 
vulnerability to the global financial crisis, the challenges 
of  the  debt  burden  and  the  unmet  commitments  of 
official development assistance. Having achieved stable 
growth  successively  for  a  number  of  years,  Cambodia 
is  confident  that,  despite  its  limited  resources,  it  will 
achieve  the  Cambodian  MDGs  by  2015.  We  welcome 
the  adoption  of  resolution  66/288,  entitled  “The 
future  we  want”,  by  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20),  held  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro  on  June  2012,  and  strongly  advocate  that  the 
MDGs  should  remain  a  fundamental  milestone  in  the 
development  agenda.  We  also  call  for  renewed  efforts 
to  enable  the  developing  countries  to  achieve  their 
Millennium Development Goals on time.
Climate change is a critical problem for the whole 
world, requiring immediate and concerted actions. The 
rapid  pace  of  climate  change  could  have  devastating 
effects, particularly on small States in the Asia-Pacific 
and  the  Caribbean  regions,  in  the  form  of  rising  sea 
levels. Other developing countries, mostly dependent on 
agriculture, are threatened by similar negative effects, 
such as extreme floods and drought, which affect their 
livelihood. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon described 
such phenomena as a real threat to international peace 
and security.
Regrettably, despite all the adversities inflicted on 
the world’s most vulnerable people by climate change, 
the 
international  community  remains  divided  on 
implementing a rapid and critical global response. We 
call  on  developed  countries  to  reduce  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
principle  of  common  but  differentiated  responsibility. 
It is disappointing that, for the most part, the promises 
made by developed nations in Copenhagen in 2009, in 
Cancún  in 2010 and in Durban in 2011 have not been 
fulfilled in a timely manner.
In  the  same  vein,  we  are  of  the  view  that 
cooperation 
natural-disaster  management 
mechanisms 
further  developed  and 
strengthened  at  both  the  regional  and  the  global 
levels,  with  a  view  to  preventing  natural  disasters 
should  be 
and 
8 
12-52443
and  addressing  related  issues  that  have  become  more 
pressing  owing  to  climate  change.  ASEAN  has  made 
great  progress  in  that  area  at  the  regional  level;  the 
establishment  of  the  ASEAN  Coordinating  Centre  for 
Humanitarian  Assistance  on  disaster  management, 
known  as  the  AHA  Centre,  deserves  mention  in  that 
regard.
Food security is another serious issue of the present 
time.  At  the  speed  the  world’s  population  is  growing, 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  predicts 
that by 2030 we will need to produce 50 per cent more 
food, 30 per cent more clean water and 40 per cent more 
energy.  Consequently,  the  increased  competition  for 
natural resources and between biofuel energy and food 
for human needs will only further exacerbate the food 
security  situation.  A  major  global  reform  is  needed 
urgently  to  implement  the  Rio+20  recommendations 
on sustainable development, which emphasize both the 
need  for  major  investments  to  modernize  agriculture 
and encourage small-scale agricultural projects around 
the  world  and  the  vital  importance  of  addressing 
interlinkages between energy and agricultural prices.
Rising oil and food prices are a common concern of 
the majority of countries in the world. High oil prices 
contribute  to  soaring  food  prices.  Rising  oil  and  food 
prices  mean  increased  poverty  levels  at  a  time  when 
global  growth  is  still  weak  and  the  number  of  the 
unemployed and underemployed is continuously rising 
in  many  countries.  Our  modern  global  food  system  is 
highly  oil-dependent,  but  petroleum  is  becoming  less 
and  less  affordable.  Thus,  there  is  no  solution  yet  for 
the  world’s  worsening  food  crisis  within  the  current 
energy  and  agricultural  system.  What  is  needed  is  a 
major rethinking of both food and energy prices and the 
coordination  of  agricultural  and  energy  policies.  We 
can but appeal to the world oil-producing countries to 
consider the negative effects of higher fuel prices and 
their impact on food and energy security.
In  our  regional  context,  ASEAN  has  adopted  a 
comprehensive strategy on food security with the signing 
of the Emergency Rice Reserve Agreement with China, 
Japan and the Republic of Korea, which is a permanent 
scheme for meeting emergency requirements.
The  Group  of  20  (G-20)  has  a  crucial  role  to  play 
in meeting those global challenges. Cambodia, as Chair 
of  ASEAN,  appreciated  the  opportunity  to  represent 
ASEAN at the G-20 Summit held in Los Cabos in June. 
Cambodia’s  views  reflected  the  need  to,  among  other 
things,  to  sustain  economic  stability  and  structural 
A/67/PV.18
reform  for  growth  and  employment;  the  urgency  to 
improve  and  strengthen  the  international  financial 
architecture  in  an  interconnected  global  economy; 
the imperative of completing the Doha Round and the 
prevention  of  the  return  of  trade  protectionism;  and 
the  priority  of  further  facilitating  trade,  an  important 
conducive  factor  for  stimulate  international  economic 
growth, which all our countries need.
Cambodia  fully  supports  all  the  priorities  agreed 
among  the  G-20  countries  in  Los  Cabos  to  promote 
trade,  job  creation  and  economic  growth,  including 
their determination to finalize negotiations on the Doha 
Round agenda as soon as possible. International trade 
is  one  of  the  most  important  factors  that  will  bring 
about  economic  growth  and  job  creation  in  both  the 
immediate and longer term.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
1945, the global situation has changed so dramatically 
that global diplomac urgently needs to be strengthened. 
It  is  therefore  in  everyone’s  interest  to  push  for 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  so  that 
it  reflects  the  diverse  needs  and  representativeness  of 
the world today. That reform should be comprehensive 
and  should  cover  not  only  the  Security  Council  but 
also  other  United  Nations  organs  in  order  to  preserve 
its  relevance  and  legitimacy  as  an  effective  global 
governance  institution  to  cope  with  the  reality  of  the 
present-day  world,  which  is  different  from  that  of  the 
post-Second World War era. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
should  be 
The  General  Assembly 
further 
empowered  to  enable  it  to  play  a  leading  role  in 
addressing  today’s  global  problems  as  a  democratic, 
deliberative policymaking organ of the United Nations. 
Both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  should  be  equitably  expanded 
so that it represents both developed and the developing 
countries.
In  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
mission  for  the  advancement  of  world  peace,  security 
and development, Cambodia has contributed 1,000 men 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  Africa, 
especially in South Sudan and Lebanon. 
Through its experience of close collaboration with 
the  United  Nations  and  its  own  experience  in  ending 
war, and thanks to its win-win policy and post-conflict 
management,  in  particular  with  respect  to  economic 
12-52443
9
A/67/PV.18
and  social  development  and  national  reconciliation, 
Cambodia wishes to contribute more effectively, through 
the Security Council, to the cause of peace, security and 
the peaceful settlement of conflicts in many parts of the 
world. To that end, for the very first time since joining 
the  United  Nations,  in  1955,  Cambodia  has  presented 
its  candidature  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  period  2013-2014,  for  which 
voting will be held next month. I also wish to note that, 
since  1955,  Cambodia  has  never  occupied  any  seat  in 
the United Nations system and that its candidature has 
been  endorsed  and  supported  by  all  ASEAN  member 
States.
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to stress that Cambodia deeply regrets the 
acts of violence against the United States Consulate in 
Benghazi,  which  caused  the  death  of  four  American 
diplomats,  including  the  United  States  Ambassador, 
even  though  we  very  well  understand  the  legitimate 
anger at disrespect towards the Muslim religion.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan.
Mr. Zarifi (Tajikistan) (spoke in Tajik; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to 
extend to Mr. Vuk Jeremič my sincere congratulations 
on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  am  convinced  that  his 
extensive professional experience will contribute to the 
successful work of the this session of the Assembly of 
our universal Organization.
It  is  my  great  pleasure  to  convey  my  greetings  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  express  my 
country’s  sincere  appreciation  for  his  tireless  efforts 
towards achieving the goals of the United Nations.
Once  again,  recent  world  developments  have 
proved  that  it  is  impossible  to  address  global  and 
regional  issues  without  strengthening  the  central  role 
of the United Nations in international affairs or without 
collective initiatives in world politics that fully respect 
the  norms  of  international  law.  In  that  regard,  it  has 
become  obvious  that  the  Organization  needs  rational 
reform, as a result of which a renewed United Nations 
will  emerge  that  will  be  able  to  respond  quickly  and 
appropriately to world developments and to effectively 
meet the numerous global challenges and threats of the 
next generation.
The 
to 
efforts 
strengthen  United  Nations 
peacebuilding activities deserve further comprehensive 
support.  In  that  regard,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  note 
that  Tajikistan  continues  to  make  a  considerable 
contribution  in  that  area  by  participating  in  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. 
is  essential 
Tajikistan  is  convinced  that  respect  for  cultural 
and  religious  diversity,  as  well  as  dialogue  among 
civilizations, 
for  global  peace  and 
understanding. In that regard, we are deeply concerned 
at the increase in many parts of the world of attempts to 
denigrate religions, in particular Islam, by misusing the 
freedom of expression. We strongly condemn such acts.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  establishment  of 
comprehensive legal norms on human rights is one of the 
major accomplishments of the United Nations. Human 
rights, along with peace, security and development, are 
the pillars of the United Nations system. As a signatory 
to  the  major  international  treaties  on  human  rights, 
Tajikistan  consistently  implements  measures  aimed  at 
ensuring the protection and promotion of human rights 
in the country. 
With  the  intent  of  making  a  greater  contribution 
towards  the  implementation  of  the  noble  goals  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  the  Government  of  Tajikistan 
has decided to present its candidature to that important 
body for the term 2015-2017. In that regard, we sincerely 
hope  that  Member  States  will  render  their  valuable 
support to our candidature.
Within  the  context  of  the  withdrawal  of  the 
from 
International  Security  Assistance  Force 
Afghanistan,  scheduled  for  2014,  the  Afghan  issue 
will  acquire  critical  importance  not  only  for  the 
region  but  for  the  entire  world.  We  believe  that  the 
social  and  economic  development  of  Afghanistan  is 
key  to  ensuring  stable  peace  in  that  country.  For  that 
reason,  international  assistance  to  Afghanistan  should 
aim  first  and  foremost  to  fully  restore  its  economy,  to 
further  strengthen  its  social  well-being  and  to  create 
employment. In that regard, the completion of projects 
to  build  railroads,  motorways,  power  transmission 
lines  and  gas  pipelines  that  connect  Afghanistan  with 
Tajikistan  and  other  countries  of  the  region  is  of  the 
utmost importance.
Last  March,  Tajikistan  hosted  the  fifth  Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan, 
which  submitted  specific  proposals  and  projects  in 
various areas that will contribute to regional cooperation 
10 
12-52443
and  include  the  participation  of  Afghanistan.  As 
a  close  neighbour  of  Afghanistan,  Tajikistan  has 
participated actively in the rehabilitation of the Afghan 
economy  and  the  country’s  social  infrastructure.  We 
are  convinced  that  the  processes  of  multidimensional 
regional cooperation should fully involve Afghanistan.
The  prevention  of  drug  trafficking  is  one  of  the 
important areas requiring cooperative efforts on the part 
of the international community. It is essential that the 
international community coordinate measures aimed at 
reducing both the demand and the supply of drugs, and 
integrate  efforts  undertaken  at  the  national  level  into 
an  international  strategy  for  drug  control.  Tajikistan 
has  designed  its  own  anti-narcotics  strategy,  which 
includes  short-  and  long-term  programmes  of  action, 
cooperation  and  interaction  on  bilateral,  regional  and 
multilateral  bases,  and  has  begun  to  develop  a  new 
anti-narcotics strategy for the period 2013-2020.
The  Ottawa  Convention  calls  on  the  international 
community to put an end to the suffering and casualties 
caused  by  anti-personnel  mines,  which  kill  and  maim 
hundreds  of  people,  mostly  innocent  and  defenceless 
civilians,  especially  children,  and 
that  obstruct 
economic development and reconstruction. Regrettably, 
the suffering and misery that anti-personnel landmines 
cause is a serious burden on those citizens of my country 
who live along the border with neighbouring States. In 
that regard, we are committed to the full and effective 
implementation of the Convention, in cooperation with 
all parties concerned. Tajikistan is a strong advocate of 
a mine-free Central Asia.
The  year  2012  will  be  remembered  as  a  historic 
moment.  Two  decades  after  their  first  meeting  in  Rio 
de  Janeiro,  national  representatives  gathered  there 
again to discuss and identify the most effective ways of 
achieving sustainable development. The United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development reiterated our 
commitment to a path towards sustainable development 
and 
to  ensuring  an  economically,  socially  and 
ecologically sustainable future for our planet: the future 
we  want.  Ensuring  sustainable  economic  development 
designed  to  improve  people’s  living  standards  and 
quality of life is a strategic goal of the Government of 
Tajikistan.  We  give  special  attention  to  the  effective, 
rational  and  protective  use  of  natural  resources,  the 
primary dimension of a green economy.
Making  access  to  energy  a  priority  is  the  key  to 
achieving  all  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
It  is  especially  crucial  for  developing  countries  and 
A/67/PV.18
remote  mountain  territories  located  far  from  major 
infrastructure. My country is no exception to that, and 
our access to energy is the key to social and economic 
development  and  poverty 
reduction.  Regrettably, 
however, we are compelled to state that due to a lack of 
mutual understanding and cooperation in the region and 
to disregard for Tajikistan’s legitimate rights and vital 
interests, for the past 10 years our country has suffered 
from a severe power shortage during the winter.
Because  of  its  lack  of  other  energy  sources,  it  is 
vitally  important  for  Tajikistan,  which  has  enormous 
hydro-energy  potential, 
to  develop  hydropower 
in  a  planned  and  integrated  manner.  According  to 
international treaties, Tajikistan has every right to use 
its  natural  resources,  including  hydropower,  for  the 
benefit of its people. At the same time, we wish to make 
it clear from this rostrum, with full responsibility, that 
in  developing  its  hydropower  potential,  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan  has  no  intention  of  exclusively  pursuing 
its  own  interests  at  others’  expense.  On  the  contrary, 
we  sincerely  advocate  mutually  beneficial  regional 
cooperation and partnership. It is against that backdrop 
that  we  should  view  Tajikistan’s  active  cooperation 
with  the  World  Bank  in  developing  a  technical, 
economic,  social  and  ecological  assessment  of  the 
Rogun hydropower station, a project of vital importance 
to  my  country.  Similarly,  we  expect  that  while  the 
assessment is being carried out, the parties concerned 
in the region will abstain from hasty and unconsidered 
statements and actions that may run counter to existing 
international agreements and to the spirit of friendship, 
cooperation and good neighbourliness.
importance 
to 
Tajikistan  attaches  great 
the 
interests  of  landlocked  developing  countries,  whose 
location  makes  them    vulnerable.  It  is  obvious  that 
Tajikistan’s  geographic  isolation  and  lack  of  access  to 
the  sea  constitute  a  serious  obstacle  to  its  sustainable 
development.  Under  the  circumstances,  it  is  clear  that 
a  network  of  reliable  and  unimpeded  transportation 
and  communications  arteries  connecting  Tajikistan  to 
the  outer  world  via  its  neighbours  is becoming  vitally 
important.  In  that  regard,  we  call  for  the  elimination 
of any artificial and economically unsupported barriers 
and  obstacles  to  transportation  and  communication 
links  among  the  countries  of  the  region  that  do  not 
contribute  to  developing  and  strengthening  regional 
cooperation and partnership. We hope that the relevant 
United  Nations  missions  in  the  region  will  pay  due 
attention to this issue.
12-52443
11
A/67/PV.18
In  2013,  the  international  community  will  mark 
the  International  Year  of  Water  Cooperation,  initiated 
by  Tajikistan,  which  coincides  with  the  twenthieth 
anniversary of the proclamation of 22 March as World 
Water Day. To implement the goals of the International 
Year of Water Cooperation, Tajikistan proposes holding 
a number of events in 2013, including, in particular, a 
General Assembly thematic session and an international 
conference  dedicated  to  water  cooperation  issues.  In 
that regard, my country will present a draft resolution 
for  consideration  by  the  Second  Committee.  I  would 
like to take this opportunity to express our sincere hope 
that Member States will support this initiative.
cooperation,  believes 
Tajikistan,  as  a  strong  supporter  of  broad  and 
comprehensive 
that  only 
collective,  coordinated  efforts  and  effective  regional 
and international cooperation can serve as a foundation 
for  joint  success,  render  the  world  a  better  and  safer 
place  and  make  the  lives  of  the  people  of  our  planet 
happier and more dignified.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mourad  Medelci,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Algeria.
Mr.  Medelci  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  warmly  congratulate 
President Vuk Jeremić on his election to the presidency 
of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  also 
pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  for  his  efforts  during  his  tenure.  I  would 
also like to commend the continuing commitment  and 
efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Today  our  world  faces  a  complex  turning  point  in 
its  history,  replete  with  challenges  and  opportunities. 
The  deep  geopolitical  upheavals  in  our  region  and  the 
serious  problems  resulting  from  the  economic  and 
financial crisis attest to that. 
We believe that our collective faith in multilateralism 
will  help  us  to  unite  our  efforts  to  find  solutions  and 
overcome  the  persistent  uncertainty  that  has  resulted 
from  those  changes.  The  unprecedented  extent  of  our 
problems  may  risk  worsening  the  existing  imbalances 
in relations among nations. All of us, without exception, 
bear a responsibility for the future of our planet, which 
we would like to be more just and more united. 
No  country  has  been  spared  the  consequences 
of  the  global  crisis,  and  their  management  cannot  be 
considered  by  only  a  small  number  of  States  acting 
to the exclusion of the rest. Quite the contrary, we all 
have  the  right  to  participate  in  finding  solutions.  The 
slowdown  in  the  world’s  economy  negatively  affects 
many  countries,  including  those  of  the  developed 
world,  which  are  facing  a  sovereign  debt  crisis  and 
increasing  unemployment.  Therefore,  further  efforts 
are  called  for  to  prevent  such  situations  from  spilling 
over  to  other  regions  of  the  world,  in  particular  to 
Africa. The response to the challenges of the crisis rests 
with  our  capacity  to  find  alternatives  to  the  theories 
and  practices  of  the  past,  because  the  new  realities  of 
our times require urgent implementation of appropriate 
and  more  effective  approaches  and  mechanisms  for 
addressing the crisis.
As  in  previous  years,  we  continue  to  suffer  from 
the  effects  of  the  multidimensional  crisis,  whether  in 
economic  governance  or  in  political  coordination.  In 
fact,  the  return  of  trust  and  growth  should  lead  us  to 
step  up  our  efforts  to  coordinate  between  the  United 
Nations  and  multilateral  institutions  in  the  economic 
and financial fields. The United Nations and the Bretton 
Woods institutions should complement each other and 
act  in  complete  political  and  economic  coordination 
and harmony. 
As far as we are concerned, Algeria has shouldered 
its  share  of  responsibility.  It  has  made  enormous 
sacrifices  and  continues  to  rigorously  control  and 
manage  its  expenditures.  The  fiscal  surplus  that  we 
have achieved has allowed us to adopt a revived social 
policy under our five-year plan 2010-2014 that involves 
redistributing  wealth  while  maintaining  investments 
for economic growth. 
Algeria  has  always  called  for  combating  the 
causes and not just the consequences of instability. We 
have  insisted  on  the  important  fact  that  development 
and  peace  and  security  are  interrelated,  and  that  the 
strategies of the United Nations and, in particular, the 
Security Council, for lasting peace must be thought of 
in harmony with socioeconomic development policies. 
In  that  regard,  at  the  regional  level,  Algeria  is 
contributing  to  the  process  of  democratization  and 
the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  socioeconomic 
development.  The  fight  against  hunger  and  poverty, 
the  protection  of  food  security,  agriculture,  growth, 
infrastructure, energy and renewable energy are areas 
in  which  we  cooperate  with  countries  of  the  Maghreb 
and the Sahel. Along the same lines, Algeria is sharing 
with  African  and  Arab  countries  and  with  its  other 
partners its experience in the area of fighting terrorism 
12 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
and  the  interrelated  scourges  of  organized  crime  and 
illicit  trafficking  in  drugs  and  weapons,  which  are 
widespread our region.
Algeria  welcomes  the  recent  changes  in  some 
countries  of  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  that 
reflected  the  will  of  their  peoples,  who  are  searching 
for a democratic ideal, justice and dignity. Those are, in 
fact, the founding principles of the Algerian revolution. 
Committed  to  the  principle  of  self-determination  of 
peoples  and  mutual  respect  among  nations,  Algeria 
condemns  all  forms  of  violence  and  repression, 
wherever  they  arise.  We  will  continue  to  believe  that 
dialogue and negotiation are the best means for settling 
disputes.
Algeria  hopes  that  the  people  of  Western  Sahara 
will  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination.  We 
urge  Morocco  and  the  Frente  Polisario  to  act  in  good 
faith  and  initiate  formal  talks,  under  the  auspices  of 
the United Nations, with a view to reaching a just and 
lasting solution, pursuant to the norms and provisions 
of international law. 
The search for peace, security and development is 
a  priority  for  us  all.  That  commitment  was  formally 
reaffirmed  by  the  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  including  Algeria,  at  the  Movement’s 
sixteenth summit, held in Tehran last August.
We support the commitment of the United Nations 
to conflict prevention through its unflagging diplomatic 
efforts,  and  we  appreciate  our  Organization’s  role  in 
promoting appropriate solutions to major crises within 
the context of its tireless and comprehensive efforts to 
bring about development. 
and  abject  poverty.  Algeria  acts  in  concert  with  the 
African  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African States and other regional actors concerned with 
a view to reaching a peaceful and lasting settlement of 
the crisis in Mali. 
The  roles  played  by  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council are essential for the preservation 
and  building  of  peace  throughout  the  world  and  for 
the  realization  of  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  in  the  areas  of  international 
cooperation  and  development.  Moreover,  the  missions 
of  those  two  principal  and  complementary  organs  are 
based  on  legitimacy,  contrary  to  the  deadlock  in  the 
reform process that began years ago. We must therefore 
do  everything  possible  to  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly, the most representative organ of the United 
Nations,  reclaims  all  its  competence  in  that  context. 
The working methods and membership of the Security 
Council must be revised to ensure its democratization in 
terms of new permanent and non-permanent members 
from  the  developing  world,  in  particular  from  Africa, 
the cradle of civilization. 
Algeria  is  proud  to  celebrate  this  year  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of its independence and of its membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  Faithful  to  its  principles, 
Algeria  has  made  a  wise  contribution  to  the  complete 
decolonization  of  Africa.  Today  it  enjoys  peace  with 
its  neighbours  with  a  view  to  completing  the  process 
of  regional  integration.  Algeria  would  like  to  become 
a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for  which 
it  is  a  candidate  for  the  period  2014-2016,  in  order  to 
continue defending the values on which its history and 
its determination to overcome adversity is based.
Algeria is a member of the special joint committee 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States 
to  monitor  the  Syrian  crisis.  We  supported  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan  and  we  will  do  the  same  with  his  successor, 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  with  a  view  to  reaching  a 
political  solution  to  the  acute  crisis  that  is  unfolding 
within that fraternal country.
Everyone  knows  that  the  road  of  human  rights 
is  littered  with  many  pitfalls  and  obstacles,  such  as 
authoritarianism,  xenophobia,  poverty,  discrimination 
and  unilateral  economic  sanctions.  In  that  regard,  the 
embargo on Cuba, which has lasted for more than half a 
century and has created deprivation, is both unfair and 
anachronistic. 
In  our  region  today,  we  are  facing  new  risks  and 
threats  that  point  to  a  return  of  terrorism  in  its  more 
violent  manifestations,  along  with  its  interrelated 
scourges  of  organized  crime  and  trafficking  in  drugs 
and  weapons.  It  is  in  that  context  that  we  have  to 
consider the complex situation in brotherly Mali. That 
crisis seriously threatens the security of the countries of 
the Sahel. In fact the deep, root causes of the situation 
can be attributed to the ills of severe underdevelopment 
Furthermore,  attacks  on  Islam  and  Muslims  are 
a  violation  of  human  rights  and  a  threat  to  peaceful 
coexistence among peoples. We should all fight against 
the phenomenon of Islamophobia, which is based on a 
xenophobic  ideology  that  erroneously  likens  Islam  to 
terrorism.  That  phenomenon  must  be  fought.  In  that 
context, the tragic events engendered by the infamous 
video concerning Islam and its Prophet are reprehensible 
in  many  respects.  Similary,  Algeria  condemns  acts  of 
12-52443
13
A/67/PV.18
violence  perpetrated  against  diplomatic  officers  and 
missions,  which  are  vehicles  for  friendly  relations 
and  cooperation  among  peoples.  Algeria  proposes  an 
initiative  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  to 
identify  the  ways  and  means  to  organize  a  response 
that puts an end to such hateful events, which threaten 
international  peace  and  security.  In  that  regard,  we 
cannot  forget  that  the  appropriate  and  responsible  use 
of freedom of expression should also endow our world 
with  a  more  human  and  brotherly  face  through  the 
promotion of dialogue among religions and cultures. 
At 
the  sixty-seventh  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  Algeria  would  like  to  welcome  the  State 
of  Palestine  as  a  new  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
family,  recognized  within  its  1967  borders,  with 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital.  We  believe  that  the 
time  has  come  for  Palestine  to  be  fully  represented  at 
the centre of this irreplaceable international forum, the 
United  Nations.  Recognition  of  the  legitimate  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  to  sovereignty  and  self-
determination  is  an  inalienable  right  and  a  necessary 
precondition for a just and lasting peace in the Middle 
East, which is currently being prevented by the Israeli 
policy of occupation. 
In addition, the creation of a zone free of weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East is an important 
confidence-building measure. In that regard, we support 
the efforts of the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Finland,    Jaakko  Laajava,  as  facilitator  for 
the  conference  on  the  establishment  of  a  Middle  East 
zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of 
mass destruction, to be held before the end of this year 
in Helsinki.
Algeria  is  committed  to  a  global  and  ambitious 
agreement  to  protect  the  environment  and  promote 
sustainable development. In that regard, we are grateful 
to the Group of 77 and China, which we have the honour 
to  preside  over  this  year,  for  its  constant  support  and 
cooperation, which has made it possible to achieve the 
results of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development, 
the  Nairobi 
Work  Programme  and  the  preparations  for  the  next 
conferences on climate change and biodiversity. Algeria 
urges  Member  States  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities 
in  implementing  the  commitments  entered  into  under 
the concept of common but differentiated responsibility, 
that  is,  namely,  the  financing  of  the  transfer  of  know-
how,  technology  and  capacity-building  in  the  area  of 
sustainable development. 
the  strengthening  of 
The  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika, has given new impetus to the programme of 
reforms aimed at strengthening the democratic process, 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  advancement  of  women.  The 
legislative elections of 10 May 2012 yielded a significant 
increase  in  women’s  representation,  with  146  women 
Members  of  Parliament,  representing  one  third  of  the 
Lower Chamber. 
Our  country  has  made  tangible  progress  in  the 
political,  economic  and  social  areas,  and  we  continue 
our efforts to establish and consolidate our democratic 
freedoms  based  on  the  principle  of  equal  opportunity 
embodied in our Constitution. Those steps have enabled 
our  country  to  achieve  in  general  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  prior  to  2015.  That  led  to  Algeria 
being chosen as one of the 50 countries selected by the 
United  Nations  for  consultations  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
In conclusion, I thank members for their attention 
and wish them every success in the work of our session.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Oldemiro Marques Balói, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique. 
Mr.  Balói  (Mozambique)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great 
honour to address the General Assembly. I would like 
to join other speakers in congratulating His Excellency 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  am 
sure  that  his  diplomatic  experience  will  contribute  to 
the  success  of  the  work  of  this  session.  I  assure  him 
of the full commitment of the Mozambican delegation 
to  contributing  to  the  success  of  this  session.  I 
equally  congratulate  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for 
his commitment and dedication in leading the Assembly 
at its most recent session.
I  would  also  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  our 
satisfaction at the progress made during the most recent 
session’s  debate,  held  under  the  theme  “The  role  of 
mediation in the peaceful resolution of disputes”. That 
theme  merited  special  attention  by  the  international 
community  in  various  forums  and  was  highlighted  by 
the adoption, last May, of the Helsinki final document, 
which  defines  the  principles  regarding  the  role  of 
the  States  in  the  mediation  of  disputes.  The  Helsinki 
14 
12-52443
document and the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement of International Disputes, adopted in 1982, 
which  set  a  precedent  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
international disputes, represent a strengthening of the 
principles  that  guide  States’  actions  in  the  search  for 
solutions to disputes through peaceful means.
We salute the timely choice of the theme “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or  situations  by  peaceful  means”  for  this  session,  at  a 
time when various factors are hastening the advent of 
conflict.  Those  factors,  both  internal  and  external  in 
nature,  are  due  to  political  and/or  economic  factors. 
They  include  the  quest  for  self-determination,  socio-
political exclusion, the use of natural resources, wealth 
distribution, border disputes and cultural and religious 
intolerance.
Therefore,  we  believe  that  conflict  resolution 
processes  should  prioritize  a  holistic  approach  to 
resolving conflict, through a free and ongoing dialogue 
among  the  parties  to  a  conflict,  thereby  following 
universally accepted principles such as dialogue based 
on truth and the responsibility of the major stakeholders 
at  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels; 
participation  aimed  at  reaching  real  solutions  and 
sustainable  development  based  on  an  understanding 
of the need to strengthen the synergies between peace, 
development  and  democracy;  and  the  fight  against 
poverty and promotion of sustainable development.
The  importance  we  attribute  to  these  principles 
stems from our experience in a process of reconciliation 
and peacekeeping, in which a constant and interactive 
dialogue within Mozambican society has allowed for the 
consolidation of national unity, peace, development and 
the fight against poverty so as to further participatory 
democracy. 
It  is  therefore  with  pride  that,  on  October  4, 
Mozambique  will  celebrate  20  years  of  peace  in 
an  atmosphere  of  stability  and  economic  growth, 
accomplishments  that  are  the  result  of  an  inclusive 
dialogue,  a  process  of  national  reconciliation  and  our 
observance  of  the  principles  of  democracy,  freedom 
and justice. 
The  failure  of  preventive  measures  leads  us  to 
resort  to  mechanisms  for  conflict  management  and 
resolution. For those mechanisms to be successful, we 
need to re-evaluate the mandates of, and conventional 
approaches  to,  peacekeeping  operations,  given  the 
underlying changes that have come about in the actual 
A/67/PV.18
nature of conflict itself since the establishment of  the 
United  Nations.  Given  the  multidimensional  nature 
of  current  conflicts,  efforts  aimed  at  their  prevention, 
management  and  resolution  require  the  cooperation 
of  various  stakeholders  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international  levels  under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United 
Nations Charter.
in 
We  believe 
that  success 
the  prevention, 
management  and  resolution  of  conflicts  is  directly 
linked  to  an  understanding  of  their  nature.  The  scope 
and  facilitation  of  mediation  should  be  extensively 
informed  by  the  nature  and  dynamic  of  the  particular 
conflict, so as to allow for a better analysis and effective 
action and to ensure that all parties to the conflict take 
an  integral  role  in  its  resolution.  In  order  to  pursue 
these objectives, focus should be placed on cooperation 
with regional and subregional organizations.
We  note  with  concern  the  persistence  of  an 
environment  of  tension  and  instability  in  Africa, 
in  particular  in  Madagascar,  the  eastern  part  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan and Mali.
In the Southern African Development Community 
(SADC) region, the various conflict resolution processes 
are based on a regional architecture for the prevention, 
management  and  resolution  of  conflicts.  This  is 
substantiated within the SADC organ for cooperation in 
the political, defence and security areas by instruments 
that  create  the  conditions  for  dialogue.  To  facilitate 
its  intervention  in  this  area,  the  SADC  organ  created 
a  mediation  unit  that  is  based  on  the  participation  of 
a  group  of  elders  who,  through  their  deep  knowledge 
of  the  internal  dynamics  of  the  countries  referred, 
have  been  contributing  to  peacebuilding,  security  and 
stability in the SADC region.
in 
in  Maputo 
The  SADC  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and  of 
Government  recently  held 
in  August 
thoroughly examined ways to improve the organization’s 
intervention 
the  prevention,  management  and 
resolution  of  conflicts.  SADC  thus  reiterated  its 
commitment to working with the parties to the conflicts 
in 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and the Republic of Zimbabwe 
while at the same time reinforcing its partnership with 
the international community.
the  Republic  of  Madagascar, 
The  mediation  efforts  of  SADC  for  the  resolution 
of the political deadlock in Madagascar and the SADC 
facilitation of the implementation of the comprehensive 
12-52443
15
A/67/PV.18
political  agreement  in  Zimbabwe,  continue  to  make 
progress  towards  the  establishment  of  conditions  for 
free,  fair  and  credible  elections  to  take  place  in  both 
SADC countries.
With  regard  to  Madagascar,  the  efforts  of  the 
mediation  team  led  by  the  former  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  Joaquim  Chissano,  resulted 
in  the  signing  by  10  of  the  11  political  groups  in 
Madagascar of the SADC road map to end the political 
crisis in that country.
the 
In  Zimbabwe,  the  political  situation  is  generally 
stable,  as 
inclusive  Government  has  made 
tremendous progress in the socioeconomic and political 
areas.  The  process  for  the  establishment  of  a  new 
constitution, which will guide future elections, is at an 
advanced stage.
SADC reiterates its appeal for the complete lifting 
of  the  economic  sanctions  imposed  on  Zimbabwe  in 
order to contribute to the country’s economic recovery 
and  that  of  other  countries  in  the  region,  with  which 
Zimbabwe maintains close economic ties. 
However, SADC and the international community 
continue  to  be  concerned  with  the  prevailing  climate 
of  instability  and  the  subsequent  humanitarian  crises 
in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo.  Cooperation  mechanisms  among  SADC,  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region, 
the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  and,  above 
all,  extensive  comprehensive  internal  dialogue  among 
the  Congolese  are  needed  in  seeking  lasting  solutions 
to the instability in eastern Democratic Republic of the 
Congo. 
With  regard  to  Guinea-Bissau,  Mozambique,  as 
Chair  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries, continues to be committed to seeking a viable 
solution in order to restore constitutional order to that 
country through internal dialogue and the coordinated 
intervention  of  the  international  community.  The 
people of Guinea-Bissau yearn for peace, stability and 
development. They want to be the masters of their own 
destiny, which was why they fought for liberation. That 
culminated in the country’s independence, whose thirty-
ninth anniversary was celebrated on 24 September.
Regarding  Somalia,  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan, 
Mozambique  is  delighted  by  the  progress  in  the 
respective  political  processes.  We  are  confident  that 
such achievements will contribute to lasting peace and 
stability in those countries.
We  follow  with  concern  the  lack  of  progress  in 
seeking  viable  solutions  to  the  political  process  in 
the  Middle  East.  That  process  is  a  challenge  not  only 
for  the  countries  involved  and  for  the  region,  but  also 
for  the  world  at  large,  owing  to  its  implications  for 
international peace and security. We therefore appeal to 
all relevant actors to engage in a constructive dialogue 
and to work towards a peaceful solution that guarantees 
peace, security and stability.
We  reiterate  our  belief  in  the  importance  of  the 
ongoing  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  towards 
the  prompt  implementation  of  the  relevant  resolutions 
of  the  Organization.  We  further  reiterate  that  internal 
dialogue, 
realistic 
intervention of the United Nations must be the priorities.
regional  cooperation  and 
the 
We  reaffirm  our  unequivocal  support  for  the 
cause of the Palestinian people, who have been denied 
their  inalienable  right  to  self-determination.  We  fully 
support  the  principle  of  establishing  the  two  States  of 
Palestine and Israel living side by side in peace.
Similarly,  we 
for 
reaffirm  our  support 
the 
international  community’s  engagement  in  seeking  a 
sustainable solution to the issue of the Western Sahara’s 
self-determination. We cannot understand or accept the 
delays in conducting the referendum already agreed on 
by all parties under the auspices of the United Nations.
Mozambique  continues  to  follow  with  concern 
the  maintenance  of  the  unjust  economic  embargo 
against Cuba, which impedes the economic and social 
development  of  that  sisterly  country.  Mozambique 
therefore reiterates the call of the majority of Member 
States for the immediate lifting of the embargo.
The  nature  of  the  challenges  that  we  face  in  the 
area  of  international  peace  and  security  lead  us  to 
affirm  before  the  Assembly  the  increasing  relevance 
of multilateral mechanisms for the peaceful resolution 
of  disputes  or  situations  of  conflict.  We  note  with 
satisfaction that, throughout more than a half a century 
of its existence, the United Nations has made undeniable 
achievements  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  in  the 
prevention and resolution of conflicts.
In order to more effectively respond to the growing 
challenges to resolving conflicts, we must pursue more 
resolutely  the  reform  agenda  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  in  particular  Security  Council  reform  and  the 
16 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
revitalization of the General Assembly. In that task, we 
believe that those two organs must adopt the following 
approach.  The  steps  should  include  a  comprehensive 
strategic  plan  of  action  and  a  detailed  programme  to 
address conflict situations; strengthening the capacity 
of resource mobilization for peacekeeping missions; the 
negotiation and implementation of sustainable political 
solutions; and engaging in a long-term perspective. The 
Security Council must play a more proactive role in the 
solution of conflicts by, inter alia, fully implementing 
the resolutions that it adopts.
Mr.  Aman  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
I  am  confident  that  he  will  successfully  steer  the 
proceedings of this session in an efficient and effective 
manner. I assure him of Malaysia’s full cooperation and 
support throughout his presidency. I would also like to 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  previous  President, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for 
his leadership and guidance throughout the sixty-sixth 
session.
We therefore reiterate the validity and relevance of 
the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter 
and of other international instruments. Such values must 
remain the main source of inspiration in the pursuit of 
political and lasting solutions to conflicts. Mozambique 
thus  believes  that  multilateral  organizations,  such 
as  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  other 
subregional  organizations,  play  a  fundamental  role  in 
the pursuit of peace and development.
The  release  of  the  distasteful  and  insulting  film  
Innocence  of  Muslims  caused  a  wave  of  widespread 
protests  across  the  Muslim  world.  The  problem  was 
compounded by the publication of offensive caricatures, 
which further angered Muslims. It is hard to understand 
how  those  responsible  could  resort  to  such  actions, 
knowing that they would offend and provoke 2 billion 
Muslims, as anything other than blatant and malicious 
intent and purpose. 
The resolution of conflicts is a crucial condition for 
the achievement of internationally agreed development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
in particular by African countries and least developed 
countries.  In  that  context,  as  part  of  the  ongoing 
discussions  on  establishing  a  post-2015  development 
agenda,  Member  States  must  act  jointly  in  seeking 
points  of  convergence  that  will  make  it  possible  to 
adopt consensus and sustainable solutions for the well-
being of our people.
It  is  our  obligation  as  peace-loving  people  and 
responsible Governments to prevent a small minority of 
bigots from sowing the seed of hatred between Muslims 
and the Western world. We categorize those people as 
extremists.  They  insult  Islam  and  advocate  religious 
hatred.  Such  extremists  have  shown  absolutely  no 
regard  for  the  implications  of  their  actions.  While 
we  condemn  the  irresponsible  actions  of  those  who 
intentionally incite hatred, we are equally saddened by 
the violent reaction that ensued.
In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
optimism  over  the  consensus  understanding  reached 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development.  We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the 
success of such an agreement depends on an integrated 
approach  towards  the  economic,  social,  cultural  and 
environmental  components,  as  well  as  on  defining  a 
comprehensive  framework  for  resource  mobilization 
under  the  terms  of  the  common  vision  of  resolution 
66/288, entitled “The future we want”.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Mozambique’s 
commitment to continuing to cooperate with the United 
Nations in seeking peaceful solutions to conflicts and 
to peace, stability and sustainable development.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Anifah  Aman,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Malaysia.
Expressing  anger  by  resorting  to  violence,  killing 
and  destruction  does  not  offer  any  solution  to  the 
problem  and  only  results  in  further  division  and 
possibly more damage and loss of innocent lives.
We  condemn  those  responsible  for  the  death  of 
Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  and  his  colleagues 
in  Benghazi.  We  are  equally  saddened  by  the  loss  of 
innocent lives, including those of women and children, 
during  emotionally  charged  demonstrations.  A  life 
lost  is  one  too  many.  Those  who  made  the  video  and 
drew  the  caricatures,  as  well  as  those  who  resorted  to 
killing,  are  equally  guilty  of  extremism  and  must  be 
held accountable and brought to justice.
I believe that it is time to look deeper into the heart 
of  the  problem  and  dwell  on  the  real  debate  —  the 
relationship between freedom of expression and social 
responsibilities,  duties  and  obligations.  The  events  we 
have witnessed cannot be defended under the pretext of 
12-52443
17
A/67/PV.18
human rights, freedoms and liberties. A line should be 
drawn when the prejudicial effect outweighs everything 
else.  Malaysia  has  always  maintained  that  freedom, 
including  the  freedom  of  expression,  comes  with 
responsibility. The drafters of the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, I am sure, did not have denigration in 
mind when they cited the need to promote and protect 
the freedom of expression.
Human  rights  need  to  be  guaranteed  by  taking 
into  account  the  cultural  and  historical  sensitivities 
of  a  society.  Nevertheless, 
they  should  also  be 
applied  without  selectivity  or  discrimination.  When 
we  discriminate  against  women,  it  is  called  sexism; 
when African-Americans are criticized and vilified, it 
is  called  racism;  when  the  same  is  done  to  the  Jews, 
people  call  it  anti-Semitism;  and  laws  are  legislated 
to  persecute  the  perpetrators.  But  why  is  it  that  when 
Muslims are stigmatized and defamed, it is defended as 
freedom of expression?
In  his  statement  during  the  International  Day  of 
Peace on 21 September, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
rightly  said:  “We  cannot  let  the  voices  of  extremists 
dominate  the  debate  and  inflame  tensions.  We  need 
voices  of  moderation  and  solidarity”  (SG/SM/14522). 
The Prime Minister of Malaysia, two years ago in the 
Assembly, advocated a global movement of moderates 
and called for all people of the world to join the chorus 
of moderates so as to drown out the voices of extremists. 
Embracing  moderation  is  an  important  value  that 
should  be  ingrained  in  every  society.  Moderation 
comes with a high degree of tolerance, trust and mutual 
understanding. It uses dialogue as an important tool to 
resolve  disputes.  With  relative  political  peace  comes 
economic  stability  and  socioeconomic  development 
in  the  given  country.  It  is  therefore  important  that  we 
continue  to  practice  moderation  as  we  face  the  rising 
tide  of  extremism.  Moderation  is  the  best  response  to 
extremism.
The  first  international  conference  of  the  Global 
Movement  of  Moderates  held  in  Kuala  Lumpur  in 
January  this  year  was  well  attended  by  over  500 
participants  from  all  over  the  world.  It  affirmed 
the  importance  of  moderation  in  the  context  of  its 
application  to  global  issues  and  situations,  especially 
to  matters  that  relate  to  social,  financial,  religious 
and  international  politics.  The  Global  Movement  of 
Moderates  has  gained  the  recognition  and  support 
of  the  Commonwealth  of  Nations,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations.  We  believe  that  the  Global  Movement  of 
Moderates provides an effective platform for the global 
response to extremism.
The  theme  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or 
settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations  by 
peaceful means,” is timely because it reiterates the core 
principles  and  values  of  the  United  Nations  in  facing 
continuing conflicts and situations around the world.
We continue to have serious concerns regarding the 
situation in the Syrian Arab Republic. We condemn the 
violence and senseless killing that have taken place and 
that continue to take place. As we contemplate the next 
step forward, we have to bear in mind that any measure 
we take must be in the interests of the Syrian people. It 
is not about who is wrong or right; it is about putting an 
end to the bloodshed and suffering, bringing a peaceful 
and inclusive resolution to the conflict. 
The  unabated  violence  and  killing  must  stop 
immediately.  The  parties  involved  have  an  equal 
responsibility  for  ensuring  the  end  to  the  appalling 
atrocities. Military aggression and armed confrontation 
will serve only to exacerbate the problem and can never 
be  a  solution  to  the  crisis;  instead,  they  diminish  any 
little hope there is for peaceful settlement. We earnestly 
hope that with the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi 
as  the  new  Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria,  a 
peaceful  solution  to  the  Syrian  crisis  will  be  found. 
Towards that end, the support of all parties, including 
the involvement of the United Nations, is very crucial.
The situation in the occupied Palestinian territories 
remains  bleak.  For  more  than  six  decades,  day  after 
day,  month  after  month,  the  people  of  Palestine  have 
continued  to  see  their  lands  confiscated  to  make  way 
for illegal settlements. They have continued to see their 
families, including their children, displaced and forced 
from  their  homes.  Elsewhere,  we  are  quick  in  calling 
for action against those who force others to live under 
oppression and without freedom and dignity. But we are 
unashamed in not taking strong and decisive action to 
ensure that the long-deprived Palestinians can exercise 
their  right  to  their  homeland  and  regain  their  dignity 
within the community of nations. 
Surely, the international community, especially the 
more  powerful  and  influential  nations,  could  do  more 
to bring Israel to the negotiating table for a two-State 
solution,  whereby  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  State  of 
18 
12-52443
Palestine could exist side by side in peace and security. 
How can we continue to live in the face of that glaring 
injustice  without  feeling  an  iota  of  guilt  for  not  doing 
enough to bring to an end this long-standing issue?
Like  others  in  this  Hall,  Malaysia  welcomes  the 
convening of the inaugural High-level Meeting on the 
Rule  of  Law  held  earlier  this  week.  At  that  meeting, 
we  adopted  a  solemn  Declaration  that  the  rule  of  law 
shall  apply  to  all  States  equally  (resolution  67/1).  We 
rededicated ourselves to resolving disputes by peaceful 
means and in conformity with the principles of justice 
and international law. We also committed ourselves to 
upholding  the  right  to  self-determination  of  peoples 
who  remain  under  foreign  occupation,  and  to  end 
impunity  for  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
and human rights law. With that declaration, it is time 
for  the  international  community  to  put  pressure  on 
Israel to fulfil its international obligations.
At  the  same  time,  Israel  must  stop  all  illegal 
settlement activities in the West Bank as well as in East 
Jerusalem. We are particularly concerned by the threats 
to invade or divide the site of Al-Aqsa Mosque, which 
would be a breach of Israel’s obligations as an occupying 
Power. It is a holy site for Muslims and Christians alike. 
Furthermore, Israel must lift the illegal blockade over 
Gaza that has caused too much hardship for the people. It 
must also protect the people under its occupation, fulfil 
its  international  obligations  and  respect  international 
law.  Most  importantly,  it  ought  to  have  direct  talks 
with the Palestinian Authority in conditions that clearly 
demonstrate its goodwill and sincerity. A peaceful two-
State solution, accompanied by sustainable peace in the 
region, should be the ultimate goal for all concerned.
Recognizing  Palestine  and  welcoming  it  into 
the  community  of  nations  has  become  a  contentious 
issue.  Palestine  is  punished  for  wanting  to  become  a 
rightful Member of the United Nations. The feasibility 
of  a  two-State  solution  is  being  questioned.  However, 
what  choice  does  Palestine  have?  Furthermore,  how 
would becoming a Member of the United Nations harm 
Palestine’s sincere efforts for independence?
The issue of Palestine’s membership of the United 
Nations  is  tied  to  another  bigger  issue  that  is  of 
particular concern to Malaysia. Allow me to elaborate. 
One  hundred  and  thirty-two  countries  recognize  the 
State of Palestine. That number reflects more than two 
thirds of the membership of the United Nations. Yet, the 
Security Council — or more accurately, those members 
A/67/PV.18
on  which  veto  power  has  been  conferred  —  are  given 
the  authority  to  determine  the  fate  of  Palestine’s 
membership, 
the 
majority.
the  opinions  of 
irrespective  of 
That is just one of a host of reasons that the United 
Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council,  needs  to  be 
reformed.  The  Security  Council  will  need  to  be  able 
to cope with the many challenges that the international 
community faces.
There  are  so  many  instances  when  it  has  failed 
to  take  action  when  action  was  needed  most.  It  has 
failed to do so because of the veto power that has been 
conferred on the five permanent members. Thus, time 
and again, it has become the victim of its own creation.
The composition of the Security Council should also 
reflect current global realities. It should be democratic 
and accountable so as to be able to fulfil its mandate to 
effectively  maintain  international  peace  and  security. 
It  is  ironic  that  the  very  institution  that  was  formed 
in  1945  to  promote  and  defend  democracy  among  its 
Member States should itself be undemocratic.
Virtually  every  aspect  of  reform  has  been  argued 
one way or another. There have been many proposals on 
the table, but none has made any headway. Therefore, 
despite the many years that the issue of Security Council 
reform has been on the agenda of the United Nations, 
we  are  no  closer  to  actual  reform  than  when  we  first 
started.  We  call  on  all  Member  States  to  be  realistic 
and  to  find  workable  solutions  to  reform.  There  is  a 
need to approach reform with renewed political will if 
we genuinely want to see progress towards achieving a 
more efficient and effective United Nations. How long 
can we go on like this? How long can we avoid the need 
to  reform  the  Security  Council  as  well  as  the  United 
Nations as a whole?
It  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  mention  the 
meeting  that  many  consider  the  most  important  one 
to  have  taken  place  this  year  —  namely,  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held 
in Brazil last June. Although the summit is over, much 
work  remains.  The  actions  mandated  in  the  outcome 
document  need  our  close  follow-up,  monitoring  and 
participation  for 
implementation. 
Strengthening 
and 
environmental  institutions,  formulating  a  financial 
strategy and developing the mechanisms for facilitating 
technology  transfer  are  among  the  important  areas  on 
which  we  need  to  act  in  the  year  ahead.  Accordingly, 
their  successful 
sustainable 
development 
12-52443
19
A/67/PV.18
we  need  to  launch  a  process  to  determine  sustainable 
development  goals.  The  goals  should  be  supported  by 
concrete action plans, with details on the various areas 
mentioned in order to implement them. Malaysia looks 
forward to working constructively and contributing to 
that process.
I believe that we share similar concerns on all the 
issues  I  have  raised  today.  Bringing  about  adjustment 
or settlement of disputes or situations does not concern 
only the parties involved in a dispute or situation, but 
is the joint collective responsibility of the international 
community.  In  line  with  this  year’s  theme,  we  assure 
the  Assembly  of  our  commitment  to  ensuring  lasting 
global  peace  and  security  through  peaceful  means  by 
embracing the principles of moderation.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Murray  McCully,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
New Zealand.
Mr.  McCully  (New  Zealand):  I  bring  greetings 
from the South Pacific. For the past year, New Zealand 
has  had  the  privilege  of  chairing  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum,  a  regional  body  that  represents  some  of  the 
smallest and most vulnerable States on this planet. For 
us that has been an important responsibility.
is 
spent 
Because  we  are  a  small  country  with  modest 
resources,  we  choose  to  focus  much  of  our  attention 
on  our  own  region.  Over  60  per  cent  of  our  official 
development  assistance 
in  our  own 
neighbourhood. Serving as Chair of the Pacific Islands 
Forum has caused us to reflect on the role of regional 
organizations,  and  also  on  the  extent  to  which  we  all 
depend on the United Nations for solutions to challenges 
that  are  truly  global  in  character.  I  say  with  some 
confidence  that  we  have  been  making  good  progress 
in  dealing  with  those  challenges  that  are  capable  of 
regional solutions. 
But I must also say that we need and expect more 
from  this  institution.  The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  has 
16 members, of which 16 are small island States. I was 
pleased  this  week  to  attend  the  first  meeting  between 
the  Secretary-General  and  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
leaders, which I hope will mark a new era of enhanced 
high-level  engagement  between  this  Organization  and 
our region and a greater understanding of our needs.
The  Pacific  has  had  its  share  of  stability  and 
security  challenges  in  recent  times.  As  a  region,  we 
have done reasonably well in dealing with them. Most 
recently it has been in Solomon Islands that a regional 
initiative  has  been  required.  The  Regional  Assistance 
Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands  has  involved  a  truly 
regional  approach,  with  the  participation  of  police 
and other personnel from every member of the Pacific 
Islands Forum. I am pleased to report that the security 
element of that initiative has been significantly scaled 
down  and  will  soon  be  fully  withdrawn.  But  there  is 
also  more  that  this  Organization,  particularly  the 
Security  Council,  can  do  to  acknowledge  and  support 
regional leadership on peace and security matters in the 
Pacific and elsewhere.
Concerns  about  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and 
human rights are not mere abstract considerations within 
the Pacific. Those principles have been challenged in a 
number of States, most notably, in recent years, in Fiji. 
In that respect, I am pleased to report that progress is 
being  made  towards  the  holding  of  elections  in  2014, 
and  that  support  has  been  forthcoming  to  ensure  that 
such elections are free and fair. 
Stability  and  security  issues  are  not  the  only 
priorities  for  our  regional  body.  In  our  year  as  Forum 
Chair,  New  Zealand  chose  to  focus  on  a  number  of 
development priorities, two of which I wish to mention 
in my remarks today.
For  many  of  the  poorer  States  within  our  region, 
their fisheries resource is the major economic asset they 
hold.  Yet  due  to  illegal  fishing  practices,  unreported 
catch  and  inadequate  management  practices,  those 
countries  have  received  far  too  small  a  return  on  that 
resource.  Because  of  the  highly  migratory  character 
of  the  tuna  resource,  this  is  truly  a  matter  requiring 
regional  management.  Solid  progress  is  being  made 
in  such  areas  as  improved  surveillance,  the  training 
of monitors and improved management practices, both 
to  protect  the  last  really  healthy  fishery  on  the  planet 
and to ensure that its owners receive a fair share of the 
resource they own.
One  of  the  highest  priorities  within  our  region 
is  the  need  for  practical  initiatives  in  the  area  of 
renewable  energy.  Ours  is  a  region  heavily  dependent 
upon  fossil  fuels  for  the  generation  of  electricity.  The 
cost of expensive imported diesel in most small Pacific 
economies is absolutely crippling. The climate change 
impact is obvious.
After a decade of climate change conferences and 
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  in  so-called  climate 
change initiatives, one might be forgiven for imagining 
20 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
that the Pacific, overendowed as it is with good sunlight, 
would by now be positively festooned with solar power 
plants.  Sadly,  I  must  report  that  that  is  not  in  fact  the 
case.  Indeed,  one  of  the  most  striking  features  of  our 
region has been the complete lack of progress in putting 
lofty climate change rhetoric into any form of renewable 
energy practice. 
In  our  year  in  the  Chair  of  the  regional  body  we 
have  set  out  to  correct  that  serious  shortcoming.  A 
small  but  important  illustration  lies  in  our  work  in 
the  tiny  Tokelau  Islands.  Until  now,  Tokelau  has  been 
100 per cent dependent on fossil fuels for the generation 
of  electricity.  By  the  end  2012,  Tokelau  will  be  over 
90 per cent resourced with renewable solar electricity. 
Good progress has also been made in Tonga, where 
I recently participated in the opening of a solar power 
plant  supplying  around  20  per  cent  of  the  electricity 
requirements  of  the  main  island,  Tongatapu.  And  we 
are  working  with  the  Cook  Islands  Government,  too, 
to assist in meeting their bold aspiration to 50 per cent 
renewable  electricity  by  2015,  mostly  through  solar 
initiatives.
These  New  Zealand-funded  programmes  are 
an  important  part  of  our  overall  commitment  to  our 
region.  Our  parting  legacy  from  our  year  as  Chair 
of  the  regional  body  is  a  renewable-energy  pledging 
conference to be held early next year, with the objective 
of  matching  donors,  suppliers  of  concessional  and 
commercial  finance,  and  others  with  the  renewable 
energy  plans  of  our  Pacific  neighbours.  Here  I  should 
acknowledge  the  European  Union’s  commitment  in 
co-leading this initiative, as well as the support of the 
World  Bank,  the  Asian  Development  Bank  and  the 
Governments of Australia, the United States and other 
generous supporters.
While  there  is  much  that  can  be  achieved  by 
regional  action,  we  must  acknowledge  that  sometimes 
regional solutions are just not enough. That goes right 
to the very heart of the reason for the existence of this 
Organization.  My  point  is  most  vividly  illustrated 
today  in  relation  to  Syria.  It  would  be  difficult  for 
me  to  overstate  the  level  of  frustration  of  the  people 
I represent with the complete inability of the Security 
Council  to  act  in  relation  to  Syria.  And  it  would  be 
even more difficult to overstate the extent to which the 
Security Council is at risk of losing its credibility in the 
eyes  of  reasonable  and  fair-minded  people  through  its 
inability to act.
People  in  my  country  ask  a  very  simple  question: 
If  25,000  deaths,  countless  thousands  injured  and 
many  more  displaced  and  homeless  are  not  enough  to 
get the Security Council to act, then what does it take? 
Just  what  does  it  take?  I  welcome  the  leadership  that 
the  Arab  League  and  Arab  States  have  shown  on  this 
issue,  and  we  have  seen  similar  leadership  from  them 
on other difficult issues in their region. And I welcome 
the  fact  that  the  General  Assembly  has  been  looking 
for opportunities to be more engaged. In the absence of 
leadership from the Security Council, 1 suggest that the 
Assembly must find ways to play a more activist role.
But from all of this, the case for Security Council 
reform  has  become  utterly  compelling. 
Indeed, 
increasingly,  the  future  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations may depend on it. If we are to make progress 
in this area we will need to see Members move past the 
extravagant attempts to maximize individual positions 
and try to find some meaningful, practical reforms that 
actually hold the prospect of widespread support.
it 
I represent a small nation of practical, constructive 
people.  And 
is  because  we  seek  practical, 
constructive reform that our Government supports the 
so-called  intermediate  solution:  the  creation  of  a  new 
category  of  seat  for  the  group  of  larger  countries  that 
feel  underrepresented  in  comparison  with  the  five 
permanent members of the Security Council (P-5), but 
seats  that  they  would  have  to  win  in  open  elections 
so  as  to  make  them  fully  accountable  to  the  broader 
membership.
I do not intend in these remarks to discuss any other 
specific proposals we would like to see considered, with 
one exception. There are now compelling reasons for us 
to ask the P-5 to voluntarily accept restrictions on the 
use of the veto. To go further and to seek its abolition is 
pointless; it simply will not happen. But to ask the P-5 
to acknowledge and respect the genuine concerns of the 
wider  membership  by  voluntarily  accepting  a  curb  on 
the  exercise  of  the  veto  is  an  entirely  reasonable  and 
achievable objective.
My country was one of those that led the opposition 
to the veto when the Organization was being established; 
indeed, it was the only Charter issue that was forced to a 
vote. The permanent members argued at that stage that 
the  veto  was  necessary  in  order  to  protect  their  vital 
national  interests.  Yet  today  we  routinely  see  the veto 
exercised  in  circumstances  that  have  little  to  do  with 
national  interests.  My  request  to  the  five  permanent 
12-52443
21
A/67/PV.18
members is simply that they stick with what they said 
to  us  back  in  1945.  And  my  challenge  to  them  today 
is to consider a process by which they collectively and 
voluntarily  agree  to  confine  their  use  of  the  veto  to 
those  issues  that  clearly  and  directly  affect  their  vital 
national interests; and also that they voluntarily agree 
not  to  use  their  veto  in  situations  that  involve  mass 
atrocities.
While  on  the  topic  of  the  Security  Council,  I 
would like to take the opportunity to urge the Council 
and  the  relevant  organs  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
respond  positively  to  the  requests  from  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  for  support  in 
dealing  with  the  conflict  in  Mali  and  the  Sahel.  Too 
often  we  have  seen  the  Council  fail  to  respond  in 
a  timely  way  to  requests  for  help  —  in  Rwanda,  in 
Guinea, in Darfur and in Somalia. Too often it has been 
a case of too little, too late. In all of these cases we have 
seen  good  leadership  from  within  the  African  Union, 
and that leadership deserves a timely and constructive 
response from New York. 
Many of those here will be aware that New Zealand 
is  an  energetic  candidate  for  election  to  the  Security 
Council for the term from 2015-2016. I can assure the 
Assembly that it will hear more from us on these topics 
over  the  next  two  years.  We  are  a  small  country  with 
a  big  voice  and  an  approach  that  is  fair-minded  and 
constructive.
In the past few days. the Assembly has heard from 
both  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  and  President  Abbas. 
We are now on notice that the issue of Palestinian status 
in  the  United  Nations  will  come  before  the  Assembly 
during this session. We look forward to seeing the text 
of a draft resolution and to engaging in the consultations 
that  have  been  signaled  to  us.  I  said  earlier  that  New 
Zealanders are practical and constructive. They are also 
fair-minded people; they expect to see their Government 
bring all of those attributes to the consideration of such 
a  resolution,  and  that  we  will  surely  do.  Having  said 
that, let me also be clear that we see such a resolution 
as a very poor substitute for the direct discussions that 
should occur between two leaders who live half an hour 
down the road from each other. 
In his address to the Assembly earlier in the week 
(see  A/67/PV.12),  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  set  out 
clearly the grave implications for the Middle East, and 
for the global community more generally, of a nuclear 
breakout in the region. Like other Member States, New 
Zealand  believes  Iran  must  be  told  to  step  back  from 
a course that risks further dangerous escalation of the 
situation.  We  hope  the  international  community  will 
stand  firm  in  sending  that  sort  of  message.  In  return, 
however,  I  suggest  that  it  is  fair  for  the  international 
community  to  make  a  request  of  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu. And that is to put the settlements on hold, at 
the very least while negotiations proceed, and to engage 
in the direct talks with his Palestinian counterpart that 
represent  the  only  basis  for  a  durable  solution  to  this 
issue,  and  an  essential  step  in  removing  the  seeds  of 
wider conflict within the region.
I would like to remind the Assembly that these are 
very difficult times for Governments around the world. 
Budget  economies  have  affected  foreign  ministries, 
my  own  included.  It  is  only  fair  that  we  should  in 
turn  ask  this  large  institution  to  find  economies  and 
improve  working  methods  in  order  to  deliver  better 
value  for  our  taxpayers.    Smaller  countries,  like  New 
Zealand,  depend  more  than  most  on  good  multilateral 
institutions. We need a United Nations that is modern, 
efficient and able to meet changing needs. We all need 
a Security Council that is more responsive to the needs 
of the wider membership and more effective in dealing 
with  the  significant  challenges  that  we  all  confront 
today.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Frederick  A.  Mitchell,  MP,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Immigration of the Commonwealth of the 
Bahamas.
Mr. Mitchell (Bahamas): I wish to say, before my 
printed remarks begin, some words not circulated in the 
text. It is a particular privilege and honour to represent 
my country in this forum, having returned here through 
the  magic  of  democracy  after  five  years.  For  the  first 
time  since  the  general  election  in  May,  our  country 
now reaffirms its re-engagement in and with the world 
community. We are part of the larger Caribbean region, 
and in that context we took part in a meeting with the 
Secretary-General  of  this  body.  We  thank  him  for  his 
courtesy.
However, it is important that the representation of 
the  Bahamas  on  regional  engagement  with  the  United 
Nations  not  be  misinterpreted  as  a  complaint  about 
lack of attention by the Secretariat. It was not based on 
petulance but on the simple fact that the United Nations 
in all its organs and manifestations must live up to its 
creed  that  all  nations  in  this  body  are  equal,  and  not 
22 
12-52443
create  the  impression  that  some  are  more  equal  than 
others. Our delegation will continue to ensure that the 
guiding principle of that equality and equity is adhered 
to strictly.
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on 
his assumption of his duties as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to assure him 
of my delegation’s support and cooperation throughout. 
I  also  commend  his  predecessor  for  his  stewardship 
over the previous session. 
I  also  wish  on  this  occasion  to  express  thanks  for 
the  stellar  work  and  contribution  to  our  country  of 
our  Permanent  Representative  to  the  United  Nations, 
Ambassador Paulette A. Bethel.
The Bahamas commends the United Nations for the 
convening  and  the  outcome  of  the  High-level  Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels last Monday. The Bahamas has committed itself 
to  the  principle  of  the  rule  of  law  and  to  ensuring  the 
continuation  of  good  governance  for  the  benefit  of 
the  entire  populace  of  the  Bahamas.  The  Bahamas  is 
committed  also  to  adhering  to  the  rule  at  law  at  the 
international  level  and  to  upholding  the  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
The  Bahamas  commends  the  convening  in  June 
2012 of the third biennial review of the United Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  The  Bahamas 
unequivocally  condemns  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and  manifestations  and  reiterates  its  commitment 
to  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  to  the  Strategy’s 
full  implementation.  The  Bahamas  renews  its  call 
for  the  timely  conclusion  of  negotiations  on  a  draft 
comprehensive 
the 
elimination of terrorism.
international  convention 
for 
The  Bahamas  condemns  in  the  strongest  possible 
terms  the  violence  that  resulted  in  the  deaths  of 
Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  and  three  other 
United  States  diplomats  a  few  weeks  ago.  We  in  the 
international community must commit wholeheartedly 
and sincerely to creating a culture of peace throughout 
the world, underpinned by tolerance and understanding, 
that  precludes  such  outrageous  occurrences  and  their 
causes.
The  level  of  armed  violence  and  crime  plaguing 
our  society  —  due  in  large  part  to  the  illicit  trade 
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  trafficking  in 
narcotics,  neither  of  which  our  country  manufactures 
A/67/PV.18
or  supplies  —  is  increasing  and  cannot  be  allowed 
to  continue  if  we  are  to  save  successive  generations 
from a life steeped in violence and lawlessness. It has 
been more than a decade since the adoption in 2001 of 
the  United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent, 
Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms 
and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects.  Yet  there  has 
been no abatement in the level and intensity of armed 
violence impacting our country.
The  Bahamas  welcomes  the  recent  convening  and 
successful  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
to Review Progress Made in the Implementation of the 
Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate 
the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons 
in  All  Its  Aspects.  The  Government  reiterates  its 
unwavering commitment to the full implementation of 
the Programme of Action. The lives of too many of our 
young  people  are  being  destroyed  by  the  use  of  illicit 
weapons in our country. Now is the time to act.
Creating  a  safe  Bahamas  is  a  top  priority  for  the 
Government.  We  are  committed  to  the  creation  of  a 
national  intelligence  agency  and  a  national  firearms 
control strategy, including the establishment of a firearms 
department and database, as well as to the enhancement 
of the operations of the country’s Defence Force so that 
it can more effectively control the porous borders of the 
Bahamas. I would like to take the opportunity to thank 
the  United  Nations  Office  for  Disarmament  Affairs 
and  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Peace, 
Disarmament  and  Development  in  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean  for  their  support  and  provision  of 
equipment and capacity-building assistance in the area 
of firearms destruction and stockpile management. The 
Bahamas  was  pleased  to  conclude  an  agreement  with 
the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs last 
April and to have participated in a number of regional 
training programmes and workshops sponsored by the 
Regional  Centre  on  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms and 
light weapons and the strengthening of border controls.
The Bahamas joins other delegations in expressing 
our  profound  disappointment  at 
the  outcome  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty  held  in  July  and  the  failure  of  Member  States 
to  agree  on  a  text  despite  six  long  years  of  protracted 
negotiations.  The  Bahamas  supports 
the  views 
articulated by the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago on 
behalf of the Caribbean Community during the month-
long Conference. What we say to thousands of innocent 
victims is that their voices must be heard. But what do 
12-52443
23
A/67/PV.18
we say to them and their families, who are suffering as a 
result of the irresponsible and unregulated international 
transfer  of  conventional  arms?  Commitment  and  a 
reassessment  of  human  life  and  dignity  versus  profit 
are critical if we are to prevail in our fight against the 
scourge  of  armed  violence  and  terror  plaguing  our 
societies. We look forward to a successful outcome in 
the next round of negotiations.
goals. In that work we must take into account different 
national realities, capacities and levels of development 
and  must  respect  national  policies  and  priorities.  The 
Bahamas hopes to work in the context of the open-ended 
working  group  for  the  development  of  the  sustainable 
development goals as well as in the intergovernmental 
committee  on  financing,  agreed  at  Rio+20,  to  ensure 
that our special concerns are fully addressed.
The  Bahamas  solemnly  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to 
the 
three  pillars  of  sustainable  development: 
economic,  social  and  environmental.  Advancements 
continue  nationally  in  important  areas  pertaining  to 
the  protection  of  our  biodiversity  and  development 
of  policies  to  promote  renewable  energy.  Some  argue 
that finding out how to provide reliable and affordable 
energy  may  be  the  single  largest  factor  affecting  the 
future development of the Bahamas. The issue of energy 
is so important that the Prime Minister has made it as 
a personal mission to seek to solve the issue. We know 
that we must do it sustainably.
In  that  connection,  the  Bahamas  looks  forward  to 
the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s High-
level  Panel  on  global  post-2015  development  planning 
and commends the level of female participation therein. 
The convening of the Panel offers a major opportunity 
to  learn  from  the  mistakes  of  the  past  and  build  a 
vision  for  global  development  beyond  mere  crisis 
management.  The  Panel  must  be  seen  to  operate  with 
open transparency. It should also incorporate the views 
of geographical and economic anomalies such as those 
of  the  Caribbean  subregion,  and  be  innovative  and 
forward-looking.
The Bahamas has enacted legislation to foster the 
sustainable use and management of ecosystems through 
better  land-use  planning.  Under  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  we  have  initiated 
actions  to  preserve  our  fish  stocks  by  introducing 
penalties  for  overfishing.  We  have  also  taken  action 
to ban long-line fishing, to establish the Bahamas as a 
sanctuary for sharks and to establish and expand marine 
protected  areas.  For  the  Bahamas,  it  is  imperative 
that 
those  sustainable  development  strategies  be 
complemented  with  appropriate  actions  taken  by  the 
international community.  In that connection, we view 
the historic outcome of the United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20)  as  offering 
significant  opportunities,  particularly  for  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS). We  are  encouraged  by  the 
international  community’s  call  for  continued  and 
enhanced  efforts  to  assist  SIDS  in  implementing  the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States and the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  Implementation.  The  Bahamas 
also welcomes plans to convene the Third International 
Conference on Small Island Developing States and will 
participate actively in the upcoming General Assembly 
consultations to determine the modalities of the meeting 
with a view to ensuring a successful outcome.
The  Bahamas  is  also  encouraged  greatly  by 
the  decision  taken  at  Rio+20  to  undertake  work  on 
universal,  action-oriented,  sustainable  development 
The  Bahamas  welcomes  the  acknowledgement 
at  Rio  of  the  need  to  address  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate change. 
The Bahamas believes that the United Nations has 
a  central  role  to  play  in  global  economic  governance. 
The Bahamas welcomes the efforts of the Group of 20 
(G-20), particularly Mexico in the role as current Chair, 
in helping to translate G-20 deliberations into effective 
actions  on  a  global  scale  through  broad  consultation 
among Member States and with the United Nations itself 
to find solutions to many of the major challenges of our 
times,  most  particularly  with  respect  to  strengthening 
the international financial system.
The Bahamas also envisions a greater role for the 
United Nations in the area of international cooperation 
in  tax  matters.  The  Bahamas,  along  with  the  wider 
Group  of  77  and  China,  continues  to  call  for  the 
conversion of the United Nations Committee of Experts 
on  International  Cooperation  in  Tax  Matters  into  an 
intergovernmental  subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council, in keeping with the Doha mandate. 
We also continue to deplore the use by some States of 
their  domestic  laws  for  extraterritorial  effect  in  such 
areas as human trafficking, financial services and drug 
smuggling.  We  continue  to  believe  that  those  laws 
with  extraterritorial  effect  are  misplaced  and  put  an 
unfair burden upon small States and that they may be 
interpreted as a departure from the international norms 
24 
12-52443
of  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
of States.
In order to reverse current economic trends, one of 
the core imperatives of the Government of the Bahamas 
is  the  strengthening  of  the  domestic  economy  and  the 
attendant creation of jobs, the broadening of Bahamian 
ownership  in  the  economy  and  the  attainment  of  a 
higher  standard  of  living.  Creating  job  opportunities 
and reversing the unacceptable unemployment situation 
in  the  country,  which  currently  is  at  a  high  rate,  have 
been  identified  at  the  highest  political  level  as  the 
most  critical  near-term  priorities  for  the  Government, 
especially  in  relation  to  young  Bahamians.  I  wish  to 
speak  especially  on  their  behalf  today.  The  young 
Bahamian sector of our country has been most severely 
affected by the unemployment problem, and the rate of 
unemployment  is  unacceptable  and  cannot  continue. 
We are committed to solving youth unemployment.
The  Bahamas  underscores  the  need  for  enhanced 
policy  dialogue  and  international  cooperation  on  the 
question of building green economies, which will indeed 
require  new  investments,  skills  formation,  technology 
development and transfer and capacity-building.
The  gross  national  income  of  the  Bahamas  is 
significantly affected by a small population of wealthy 
expatriates  whose  high  incomes  skew  the  measure 
away  from  the  true  economic  realities.  The  construct 
of  per  capita  gross  national  income,  therefore,  takes 
on a unique interpretation in the context of developing 
countries  like  the  Bahamas  and,  I  would  daresay,  the 
Caribbean  subregion.  The  Bahamas  continues  to  be 
deserving  of  considerations  that  will  not  deny  us  the 
right  to  develop  sustainably,  supported  by  financial, 
human  and  technological  resources.  Gross  national 
income  per  capita  should  not  be  used  as  a  pretext  to 
restrict our access to financial assistance.
The  General  Assembly  is  set  to  consider,  during 
this sixty-seventh session, the scale of assessments for 
the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations 
regular  budget  and  peacekeeping  operations  for  the 
period 2013-2015. The Bahamas takes this opportunity 
to  reiterate  its  long-standing  position  that  per  capita 
gross national income, for the reasons given, should not 
be accorded overriding weight in determining capacity 
to pay.
A 
transparent, 
representative, 
responsive, 
accountable, democratic and inclusive Security Council, 
predicated  on  an  increased  membership  in  both  the 
A/67/PV.18
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  as  well  as 
on  modification  of  its  working  methods,  is  overdue. 
My  delegation  sincerely  hopes  that  the  next  round  of 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  this 
session will result in tangible progress aimed at making 
the Council all that it can and should be.
Our  desire  for 
the  realization  of  unfulfilled 
potential  also  extends  to  our  regional  partner,  the 
Republic of Haiti. The Bahamas has been unremitting 
and consistent in its support for the people of Haiti and 
their  aspirations  for  peace,  security  and  development. 
The  Bahamas  commends  the  important  role  of  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  in 
providing security in Haiti and in laying the foundation 
for  its  long-term  recovery  and  stability.  Pledges  made 
toward  Haiti’s  recovery  and  reconstruction  must  be 
honoured and fulfilled so that the required work can be 
undertaken and completed.
The  Bahamas  welcomes  increased  dialogue  on 
international  cooperation  with  respect 
improving 
to  international  migration  and  development.  Illegal 
migration from Haiti is a vexing issue for our country. 
We agree that proper cooperation can certainly help to 
ensure that migration occurs through safe and regulated 
channels and to leverage the contributions that migrants 
can  make  to  the  development  of  our  country.  The 
Bahamas will continue to participate constructively in 
the process leading to the second High-level Dialogue 
on  International  Migration  and  Development,  to  be 
held by the General Assembly in 2013, with a view to 
addressing those and other related issues so crucial to 
our development.
Given the events over the past year in the Bahamas 
with  regard  to  illegal  migration,  some  of  which  have 
been tragic, as well as poaching in our seas by illegal 
persons  from  south  of  the  country,  the  Bahamas  will 
be taking stronger measures over the next year to put a 
stop to those illegal activities. We appeal to all nations 
in  the  region  to  prevail  upon  their  citizens  to  cease 
and desist from those unlawful activities. We intend to 
work both bilaterally and with the broader international 
community  to  stop  these  assaults  on  our  national  and 
economic security.
The  Bahamas  has  made  significant  strides  in  the 
areas  of  maternal  and  child  health  and  HIV/AIDS  in 
this,  the  fiftieth  year  since  women  obtained  the  right 
to  vote  in  the  Bahamas.  We  are  committed  to  the 
achievement of gender equality and the empowerment 
12-52443
25
A/67/PV.18
of women, as was affirmed by the Minister for Social 
Services  during  the  consideration  of  the  report  on 
Bahamas  by  the  Committee  on  the  Elimination  of 
Discrimination  against  Women  at  its  fifty-second 
session,  held  in  July.  The  Bahamas,  nevertheless, 
remains  concerned  about  the  increasing  incidences  of 
non-communicable  diseases  among  the  population,  in 
particular women, who are disproportionately affected 
by such preventable diseases.
We  can  draw  much  strength,  wisdom  and 
inspiration  from  the  remarkable  successes  of  our 
nations’  athletes  nationally  and  subregionally  at  this 
year’s  Olympics.  On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would 
like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  youth  of  the  world  for  their 
stellar displays of camaraderie and talent at the recent 
Olympics. In this forum, I wish to salute in particular 
the  gold  medal  athletes  of  the  Bahamas,  namely, 
Demetrius Pinder, Michael Mathieu, Chris Brown and 
Ramon Miller. Indeed, the performances of the athletes 
from  the  entire  Caribbean  Community  region  are 
noteworthy,  particularly  those  of  our  sister  countries 
Grenada,  Jamaica  and  Trinidad  and  Tobago.  Those 
examples can be seen as contributing as much to peace 
and  development  in  our  world  as  our  deliberations 
and  initiatives  at  this  session,  hence,  our  warmest 
congratulations to them all.
My delegation also wishes to record in this forum 
the passing of my late friend and brother, the late Paul 
L.  Adderley,  who  was  the  longest-serving  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Bahamas.  His  tenure 
included  the  most  critical  foreign  policy  challenges 
of an independent Bahamas to date. Sadly, he died on 
19  September.  He  believed  in  this  world  body  and  its 
tenets  and  exemplified  how  it  can  assist  small  States. 
It is therefore only fitting that we mark and record his 
passing.
The Bahamas continues to believe that mankind can 
aspire  to  and  achieve  a  higher  inner  strength  that  not 
can only cause us to excel even beyond our dreams, but 
also can lift all around us, even nations and the entire 
world. May each one of us therefore reach for that inner 
strength, change our world and transform an agenda of 
problems into covenants of partnerships. It remains as 
true as always that we need the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Aurelia Frick, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  We  are  convening 
in  this  Assembly  at  a  time  when  we  are  witnessing  a 
worrisome  phenomenon,  namely,  senseless  violence 
spreading  through  an  entire  region  as  a  result  of  a 
senseless  offence  to  religious  feelings.  More  than  any 
other  organization,  the  United  Nations  stands  for  the 
ideals of tolerance, understanding and mutual respect. 
A  strong  message  should  therefore  emerge  from  this 
debate.  The  hateful  slander  of  people  on  the  basis  of 
their culture or religion is unacceptable. It is an abuse 
of  the  right  to  freedom  of  expression.  However,  we 
must emphasize just as clearly that violence cannot be 
justified by insults, however understandable the outrage 
may be. Such ongoing events also tell us that we must 
reach  many  more  people  in  our  effort  to  promote  the 
values of the United Nations around the globe.
When we last met, a year ago, we heard many calls 
from this rostrum to bring an end to the crisis in Syria. 
Since  then,  the  violence  has  turned  into  a  civil  war 
that  puts  the  United  Nations  to  shame.  We  have  seen 
open division in the Security Council and little interest 
by  the  parties  to  the  conflict  in  a  United  Nations-led 
mediation.  Instead,  the  situation  on  the  ground  has 
further escalated. The entire region is now threatened 
with instability. The blatant disregard for the lives and 
rights of civilians, of women and children in particular, 
is simply shocking. 
It  is  a  crisis  with  profound  and  lasting  effects  for 
the three main pillars of the United Nations: peace and 
security, development, and human rights. It is therefore 
also an existential challenge for this Organization. The 
United Nations is only as effective as its political organs 
allow it to be. The crisis must therefore make us think 
in general terms about the lessons we should learn.
The situation in Syria is clearly of burning concern 
to the membership as a whole as a human security crisis 
and a threat to international peace and security. At the 
same time, the Security Council is unable to carry out 
its  tasks  under  the  Charter  because  of  disagreement 
among its permanent members. It is therefore essential 
that  the  General  Assembly  step  in  and  play  a  more 
active  role,  as  it  has  done  on  some  occasions.  That  is 
all  the  more  important  as  we  are  confronted  by  the 
failure  to  fulfil  the  responsibility  to  protect  a  civilian 
population  —  a  principle  adopted  in  this  Hall  at  the 
highest political level.
The stalemate in the Council demonstrates that we 
must look at the way in which the veto power is and can 
26 
12-52443
be  used.  In  that  respect,  there  must  be  accountability 
vis-à-vis  the  membership  of  the  Organization  as  a 
whole.  After  all,  the  Council  carries  out  its  work  on 
behalf of us all. We call upon the permanent members 
to  acknowledge  that  the  United  Nations  Charter  does 
not grant them the right to the veto without any strings 
attached. We ask them to acknowledge that the Council 
must  at  all  times  act  in  accordance  with  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore 
request  that  they  pledge  not  to  use  the  veto  to  block 
Council action aimed at preventing or ending genocide, 
crimes against humanity or war crimes.
Clearly, the main priority is to end the suffering of 
the Syrian people and to bring about a political solution 
that  guarantees  human  security  and  stability  for  the 
region. However, we also have an obligation to ensure 
that  there  is  no  impunity  for  the  worst  crimes  under 
international law and that those who have the greatest 
responsibility do not get away with murder. 
The evidence before us is alarming. The independent 
international commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab 
Republic,  established  by  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
came  to  clear  conclusions.  The  primary  responsibility 
to ensure accountability falls, of course, on the Syrian 
judiciary. But we can be under no illusions as to whether 
it  will  deliver  justice  to  the  victims  and  due  process 
to  all  accused.  We  therefore  join  Switzerland  in  the 
call to the Council to refer the situation in Syria to the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (see  A/67/PV.7). 
But  we  also  ask  the  Council  to  fully  support  such  a 
referral in order to ensure cooperation and not to put up 
any obstacles to the appropriate financing of the Court’s 
work.  Without  those  two  prerequisites,  referrals  are  a 
mixed blessing and problematic for the ICC.
the 
This  year,  we  also  commemorate 
tenth 
anniversary  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
are  looking  at  the  history  of  an  astonishing  success. 
Who would have thought that the Court’s membership 
would near two thirds of the membership of the United 
Nations in such a short time? Who would have predicted 
that  the  Security  Council  would  make  referrals  to  the 
ICC on two occasions — once even by unanimous vote? 
And  who  would  have  expected  the  Court  to  emerge 
from political controversy as a stronger institution?
Those are remarkable achievements that we can be 
proud of. Nevertheless, the next decade is also fraught 
with  challenges.  We  have  been  strongly  united  in 
setting up the Court and getting it under way. Now that 
A/67/PV.18
it is fully operational, we must more than ever support 
it  politically.  I  therefore  launched  a  ministerial-level 
initiative  to  support  the  ICC  earlier  this  week.  I  was 
very encouraged by the strong response to my call for 
coordinated action when needed. 
In adopting the Rome Statute, we have not just set 
up an international tribunal located in The Hague. We 
have  also  created  a  global  system  to  fight  impunity, 
which  assigns  a  strong  role  to  States.  It  also  offers 
the  Security  Council  an  important  role,  if  it  chooses 
to  play  it.  Political  support  is  particularly  required 
where  investigations  are  based  on  referrals  from 
the  Security  Council.  The  obligation  for  the  State  in 
question to cooperate is based entirely on the Security 
Council’s  authority,  not  on  the  Rome  Statute.  The 
Council must therefore play a key role in ensuring that 
such cooperation is forthcoming. We as States are also 
responsible  for  ensuring  that  indicted  individuals  are 
arrested and transferred to the Court. Clearly, we must 
do better in that regard.
We are also being given a historic opportunity both 
for  the  Court  and  for  the  United  Nations:  for  the  first 
time  since  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War,  we  can 
enable an international tribunal to prosecute the crime 
of aggression.
The prohibition of the illegal use of force is at the 
core of the Charter of the United Nations, and aggression 
has been considered a crime under international law for 
decades.  But  the  consensual  adoption  of  the  Kampala 
amendments to the Rome Statute allows us to put that 
principle into practice. Leaders that consider resorting 
to  the  illegal  use  of  force  will  be  put  on  notice,  once 
30  States  parties  have  ratified  the  amendments  and 
once we have activated them in 2017. I am proud of the 
fact that Liechtenstein, following its presidency of the 
Review  Conference,  was  the  first  State  to  ratify  the 
amendments,  on  8  May  this  year.  We  chose  the  date 
as  a  tribute  to  the  commemoration  of  the  end  of  the 
Second  World  War  in  Europe.  We  have  also  launched 
an  initiative  to  support  the  ratification  process  that  is 
under way.
I would therefore encourage all current and future 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to  ratify  the  Kampala 
amendments as soon as possible. Together we can take 
this big step forward in the history of international law.
Criminalizing  the  illegal  use  of  force  between 
States would be a very significant step forward in the 
promotion of the rule of law at the international level. 
12-52443
27
A/67/PV.18
The  rule  of  law  is  rightfully  moving  to  the  centre  of 
our  attention.  We  have  illustrated  this  fact  by  holding 
a  high-level  meeting  on  this  topic  earlier  this  week. 
The  rule  of  law  permeates  many  of  the  activities  we 
pursue  here  at  the  United  Nations.  Indeed,  there  can 
be  no  lasting  security,  no  sustainable  development 
and  no  effective  protection  of  human  rights  without 
the  rule  of  law.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  a  strong 
rule-of-law  dimension  in  the  sustainable  development 
goals resulting from the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development. 
The Conference resulted in a number of important 
agreements. It also illustrated the value of inclusive and 
transparent multilateralism, especially when compared 
with other, more exclusive decision-making processes. 
This  serves  as  a  reminder  of  the  need  to  reconcile 
seemingly 
international 
decision-making:  transparency  and  inclusiveness  on 
the  one  side,  and  efficiency  and  effectiveness  on  the 
other.
competing 
interests 
in 
Mr. Kanda (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Multilateral decision-making is efficient when there 
is sufficient political will. It is effective when it has the 
legitimacy  necessary  to  ensure  full  implementation. 
We  must  revert  to  considering  the  universality  and 
openness  of  the  General  Assembly  as  key  assets,  not 
as a weakness. The Assembly must reaffirm its unique 
and central role in global governance, including in the 
economic dimension. I welcome the strong commitment 
of President Jeremić, expressed at the beginning of this 
session, to work for genuine multilateralism and, to that 
end, to reach a new level of engagement. I assure him of 
our full support in this endeavour.
There must be accountability for decisions of global 
impact  before  the  Assembly  or  before  other  relevant 
and universally accessible bodies. To achieve that aim, 
we  will  build  on  the  progress  made  in  recent  years  in 
the  framework  of  the  Global  Governance  Group.  The 
Group  has  become  a  trusted  bridge-builder  in  these 
matters. We hope that this issue will become one of the 
highlights of Mr. Jeremić’s presidency.
Let me conclude with some remarks about an issue 
that is particularly dear to my heart. I am convinced that 
the inclusion of the whole population, men and women 
alike,  is  essential  to  the  stability  and  peaceful  and 
prosperous  development  of  nations.  Since  becoming 
Foreign Minister, I have tried to make use of the relevant 
international platforms to promote the advancement of 
women.  I  also  hope  to  bring  Liechtenstein’s  expertise 
and passion for women’s issues to the Commission on 
the Status of Women during the term 2015-2019.
I  am  grateful  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for his leadership in this area. UN-Women, headed so 
charismatically by Michelle Bachelet, has given a much-
needed  additional  boost  to  our  efforts.  If  we  continue 
on our path, then the United Nations can be the decisive 
driving force for gender equality worldwide. Until then, 
we can and must do much more, in particular in the area 
of  women,  peace  and  security.  Stronger  protection  of 
women,  both  legal  and  otherwise,  in  situations  where 
they are particularly prone to becoming victims is a key 
component.  The  United  Nations,  with  its  very  strong 
field  presence  all  over  the  world,  can  make  a  unique 
contribution  to  that  end.  But  most  importantly,  the 
United  Nations  must  lead  by  example  when  it  comes 
to  gender  equality  and  the  advancement  of  women. 
We  must  make  the best  use  of  their  talents,  skills and 
experiences  as  peacemakers,  as  agents  for  sustainable 
development and as advocates for human rights and the 
rule of law. As is well known, the future is female.
Only when women are fully included will we, the 
United Nations, be successful in pursuing our goals. 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Luis Almagro, Minister for Foreign Affairs of  the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr.  Almagro  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  my  friend  Ambassador  Vuk 
Jeremić on his election to preside over the work of the 
General Assembly during its sixty-seventh session. His 
experience,  competence  and  reliability  will  be  crucial 
in  ensuring  that  the  most  representative  body  of  the 
United Nations effectively fulfils its duties. We assure 
him of the full support of Uruguay.
The  focus  of  the  General  Assembly  this  year 
on  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  at  national  and 
international  levels  is  extremely  relevant,  and  I  take 
this  opportunity  to  welcome  the  declaration  adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly  on  Monday  on  that  matter 
(resolution 67/1). Respect for and promotion of the rule 
of  law  at  the  national  and  international  levels  are  two 
sides of the same coin, which has the well-being of the 
individual as its raison d’étre. It means also that neither 
individuals nor States are above the law, but are subject 
to it.
28 
12-52443
Uruguay considers rule of law a constitutive element 
of the social contract that sustains its democratic system 
and that  stands out as a pillar of its foreign policy. It 
is  important  to  stress  that  this  was  not  motivated  by 
foreign influence, nor  did it come through the adoption 
of  an  abstract  political  model  from  outside.  Rather,  it 
was the result of a profound internal process of building 
and organizing the free coexistence of our people.  
The  principle  of  juridical  equality  of  States, 
like    equality  among  individual  people,  is  one  of 
the  fundamental  principles  of  our  Organization, 
guaranteeing  to  all  the  same  right  to  participate  in 
the  responsibilities  of  the  international  community, 
independent of the power possessed by each nation. It 
is precisely in respect of this principle that our country 
rejects  any  coercive  unilateral  or  extraterritorial 
measure that contravenes the rules of international law 
and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 
The clearest contemporary example of such a measure 
is  the  embargo  unfairly  set  against  the  Republic  of 
Cuba.
the 
The  principle  of 
self-determination  of 
peoples — understood as a collective right that must be 
observed in a manner analogous to respect for freedom 
of  the  individual  at  the  domestic  level  —  is  also  an 
essential pillar of the rule of law. That freedom, which 
includes freedom of expression and other fundamental 
freedoms, is closely related to the effective operation of 
democratic institutions. 
A/67/PV.18
its  firm  commitment  to  those  values  and  principles 
already at the Hague Conference of 1907, where it tried 
to  introduce  compulsory  international  arbitration, and 
also in 1921, when it became the first country to legally 
accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Permanent 
Court of International Justice, under only the condition 
of reciprocity.
The 
strenuous  efforts  of 
international 
community to build a fair system and to achieve greater 
balance  among  countries  and  greater  well-being  for 
their  societies  have  not  yet  achieved  the  necessary 
ethical and policy solutions.
the 
Recently  we  have  seen  what  appears  to  be  an  era 
of  change  in  some  regions  of  the  world.  Peoples  are 
seeking  their  freedom  with  the  means  they  have  at 
hand,  with  a  legitimate  desire  to  achieve  democracy 
and  greater  well-being.  Political  actions  of  peoples 
seeking  new  alternatives  of  power  have  come  up 
against  those  who  are  better  organized  politically and 
who  thus  will  prevail,  as  they  have  always  prevailed. 
Those who have now assumed power must be aware of 
their responsibilities towards those peoples.
Eradicating 
tyranny,  consolidating  peace  and 
making  social  benefits  available  to  everyone  are 
enormous  challenges.  The 
to  build  real 
democracies,  and  to  build  them  with  all  of  the 
contradictions,  differences  and  difficulties  that  exist 
within  a society. 
task 
is 
In that respect, and without prejudice to reaffirming 
that any attempt at the partial or total disruption of the 
national  unity  or  territorial  integrity  of  a  country  is 
incompatible  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  Uruguay  has  always 
defended  the  right  to  self-determination  of  peoples 
as  a  key  principle  for  the  international  coexistence 
of  States.  It  reiterates  its  desire  for  a  peaceful,  just, 
sustainable  and  mutually  accepted  solution  of  the 
question of Western Sahara, based on international law 
and resolutions of the General Assembly and Security 
Council and respectful of the human rights and the will 
of the Saharan people.
An  independent  judicial  system,  to  which  all 
persons  have  access  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of 
equality  before  the  law,  is  necessary  for  the  genuine 
rule  of  law.  Projecting  this  concept  of  the  State  and 
of  the  law  beyond  our  borders  is  a  vocation  for  peace 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  of  which  my 
country  was  an  early  promoter.  My  country  showed 
Even  in  our  region  we  have  received  threats  with  a 
major ideological component. The attempted coup d’état 
in Ecuador and the breakdown of the democratic order 
in  Paraguay  have  shown  that  Governments  of  change 
have been affected in the development of their policies. 
The rule of law and democracy are not acquired values; 
rather,  they  must  be  defended  each  day  as  precious 
goods.
Recent events such as what happened in Paraguay 
demonstrate that the rule of law is still threatened and 
that despite progress in terms of democratic institutions 
in  all  our  nations,  threats  to  the  full  exercise  of 
fundamental  rights  and  democratic  values  persist. 
That  represents  a  great  challenge  to  our  aspiration 
to  strengthen  the  integration  and  development  of  our 
countries,  making  the  defence  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
the  democratic  order  a  necessary  and  unavoidable 
condition.
Despite  the  great  changes  that  have  afflicted 
humanity,  the  international  system  continues  to  work 
12-52443
29
A/67/PV.18
hard,  yet  it  does  not  resolve  the  problems,  or  resolves 
them  unfairly.  It  has  been  unable  to  create  equal 
financial  or  commercial  opportunities.  Even  today,  it 
is not a priority to invest in countries’ human resources 
according to their specific needs. The political system 
has acted to control or decide political destinies, rather 
than to ensure the security or well-being of the people. 
Those who suffered before are suffering now. Powerful 
countries still threaten or intervene in other countries.
We  have  written  about  values  and  principles  and 
have  incorporated  them  in  our  constitutions.  We  have 
preached in many ways about what is good for everyone. 
But we have not succeeded in meeting the basic needs 
of  billions  of  poor  people,  nor  have  we  guaranteed 
them  programmes  for  health,  education,  housing  or 
employment.
The  basis  of  social  justice  has  not  changed.  It  is 
peace, it is freedom, because without that we cannot be 
actively aware of noble causes that require that one not 
be dominated or oppressed — and without that, there is 
nothing. It is dignified housing that protects a family, 
work with dignity at a fair wage, the right to education 
and the responsibility of each individual. It is the health 
care that can save the 7 million children under 5 years 
of  age  who  die  each  year  around  the  world  and  that 
cares for the elderly, for women and for the destitute.
What  is  truly  revolutionary  is  to  change  the 
conditions of life for those who cannot fully enjoy their 
rights, because our political ideal must be, essentially, 
the  human  dimension.  The  solution  requires  that  the 
system provide each person  the greatest guarantees of 
his political rights and that it be fair with regard to the 
obligations and responsibilities in that respect.
freedom 
implies 
The  greatest 
the  greatest 
responsibility.  Each  person,  as  both  an  individual 
and  part  of  the  community,  must  receive,  possess  and 
enjoy  the  rights  that  are  fundamental  to  ensuring  the 
well-being  of  all  as  a  way  to  transform  solutions  into 
reality.  The  struggle  for  transformation  determines 
the  struggle  of  each  person  to  find  a  solution  for  his 
problems.  Resolving  the  issues  inherent  in  poverty, 
lack  of  freedom  or  impediments  to  the  enjoyment  of 
economic, social and cultural rights requires concrete, 
urgent and immediate action. 
Almost  200  years  ago,  someone  declared  that 
the  most  unfortunate  would  be  the  most  privileged. 
His  thinking  was  truly  revolutionary,  but  there  was 
something  in  it  even  more  revolutionary,  because 
he  took  on  the  task  of  orchestrating  and  executing 
the  changes  that  would  provoke  the  redistribution  of 
resources.  He  took  his  solutions  to  the  most  needy: 
widows  with  children,  children,  and  poor  blacks, 
zambos and creoles.
Development requires change. The present day has 
given  us,  as  a  fundamental  condition  of  our  projects, 
insoluble  problems  such  as  poverty,  malnutrition, 
overcrowding,  unemployment,  child  mortality  and 
other socioeconomic scourges that still afflict most of 
humanity.  Therefore,  this  system  requires  a  change, 
and the only way to carry it out is to transform reality.
Our  responsibilities  as  a  community  of  nations 
cannot be avoided, as some of those problems occur as 
a natural result of the conditions and characteristics of 
relations among States. The international context tends 
to  concentrate  wealth,  efficiency  and  competitiveness 
and has no mechanisms to redistribute the resources in 
a fair and efficient manner that would provide a roof to 
every homeless person, a plate of food to every hungry 
person  or  break  the  chains  of  the  oppressed.  The 
international system is based on the struggle of national 
interests for a more powerful position, and that means 
that the concentration of power becomes ever greater. 
Everyone  is  aware  that  countries  such  as  ours 
operate within highly competitive international markets, 
that we do not determine prices, that commodity prices 
fluctuate thus altering our national export matrix, and 
that  we  are  exposed  to  successive  financial  crises. 
Continuing  with  this  line  of  thought,  it  is  essential  to 
prioritize  Uruguay’s  involvement  in  the  international 
community,  integrating  international  aspects  of  the 
country’s  issues  in  the  areas  of  agriculture,  industry, 
commercialization and financing, all with the purpose 
of  eliminating  poverty,  achieving  social  justice  and 
firmly  establishing  primary  education.  Among  other 
things,  this  requires  reducing  or  eliminating  the 
distortions that pose obstacles to commercial exchange, 
particularly agriculture subsidies, internal supports and 
other protectionist measures that prevent international 
trade from becoming a factor that contributes to solving 
the financial crisis that is currently affecting the global 
economy.
Economic  and  social  development  requires  the 
stability and predictability that the rule of law ensures. 
The  United  Nations  has  grasped  that  reality,  and  it  is 
encouraging  to  see  that  strengthening  the  rule  of  law, 
and  the  institutions  whose  job  it  is  to  implement  that 
30 
12-52443
rule of law, is central to the tasks of the Organization’s 
various  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  special 
political  missions, 
the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti,  to  which  Uruguay  is  a 
principal contributor.
including 
that 
the 
international  community  can 
Our historical belief that a national society must be 
ruled by law means that we believe that the community 
of sovereign nations should regulate itself in conformity 
with international law. In that context, it is Uruguay’s 
hope 
take 
effective  steps  towards  eliminating  nuclear  weapons 
and focus its efforts on eliminating this terrible threat 
still  hanging  over  humankind.  Similarly,  we  call  for 
redoubled  efforts  to  enable  us  finally  to  conclude  a 
treaty  regulating  the  arms  trade,  which  has  a  serious 
impact on Latin American and Caribbean countries and 
other developing regions of the world.
Regarding the promotion and protection of human 
rights,  Uruguay’s  coordination  with  the  international 
system  has  reached  a  very  high  level.  Our  country  is 
party to all legal instruments relating to human rights 
and  international  humanitarian  law.  It  offers  an  open 
invitation  to  all  universal  and  inter-American  special 
procedures  to  visit  the  country  and  recognizes  the 
binding  jurisdiction  of  all  monitoring  committees  for 
receiving  individual  complaints  and  communications. 
At the same time, Uruguay has expressed its preference 
for  establishing  international  jurisdictional  bodies 
and  institutions.  Our  country’s  longtime  goal  in  this 
area  was  realized  at  the  regional  level  through  the 
establishment  in  1969  of  the  Inter-American  Court  of 
Human Rights under the San José de Costa Rica Pact.
Uruguay has been a member of the Human Rights 
Council  since  its  creation  in  2006  and  is  its  President 
for  the  period  2011-2012.  During  our  mandate,  we 
have  advocated  for  a  new  culture  of  dialogue,  for  the 
progressive  and  incremental  utilization  of  special 
procedures  and  other  instruments  for  action  before 
resorting  to  coercive  or  confrontational  measures,  for 
a  two-way  cooperative  model  between  States  and  the 
United Nations system, for greater regional coordination 
and for the importance of civil society’s participation. 
We have promptly, clearly and constructively expressed 
our  position  on  situations  involving  serious  violations 
of  human  rights,  ethnic  cleansing,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes.
Uruguay has been a party to the Rome Statute since 
2002 and has enacted a law that can be seen as a model 
of cooperation with the International Criminal Court.
A/67/PV.18
Seven  years  ago,  when 
the  Assembly  was 
considering the concept of the responsibility to protect, 
we committed to ending mass atrocities, giving priority 
to  prevention  and  aiding  States  that  so  requested  to 
comply fully with their responsibilities to protect their 
peoples  from  such  scourges  and  to  respond  speedily 
and decisively in accordance with the provisions of the 
United Nations Charter.
We  firmly  condemn  the  serious  violations  of 
human  rights  that  are  taking  place  in  Syria.  The 
situation  has  deteriorated  and  the  suffering  of  the 
civilian population has become intolerable. We support 
the work of the independent international commission 
of  inquiry  established  by  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
which  in  its  most  recent  report  (A/HRC/21/50)  states 
that  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  Government  forces 
are committing crimes against humanity. All violence 
in  Syria  must  cease  immediately;    it  is  essential  that 
we establish a process of dialogue aimed at reaching a 
peaceful solution. Uruguay supports the mediator role 
of  the  United  Nations  within  a  framework  of  a  strict 
respect  for  international  law  and  the  principles  of  the 
Charter.  The  protection  of  civilians  is  a  multifaceted 
task, of which the most sensitive and important aspect 
is protecting those facing imminent danger of physical 
violence.
Through  its  firm  commitment  to  peacekeeping 
operations, Uruguay has played and will continue to play 
a proactive and constructive role both at Headquarters 
and on the ground. Nevertheless, we must make greater 
efforts  and  work  for  better  coherence  among  all  the 
actors  involved  in  order  to  eliminate  or  minimize  as 
far as possible the numbers of civilian victims of armed 
conflicts.
Human  rights  are  universal,  interdependent  and 
indivisible. Ensuring that they are enforced, protected 
and  promoted  is  possible  only  through  a  firmly 
established rule of law and well-functioning democratic 
institutions,  democracy,  good  governance  and  a  more 
effective multilateral system.
It  is  essential  that  the  United  Nations  adapt  to 
global challenges, guarantee its presence on the ground 
and  respond  to  all  the  challenges  faced  by  developing 
countries  in  accordance  with  their  priorities  and 
needs. It is thus imperative that development processes 
emphasize  one  of  the  greatest  threats  to  the  rule  of 
law  and  democracy  —  poverty,  particularly  extreme 
poverty,  which  causes  instability  and  insecurity.  Our 
12-52443
31
A/67/PV.18
country  has  given  absolute  priority  to  combating  that 
scourge  purposefully  and  head  on.  In  the  past  year 
alone,  Uruguay  was  able  to  reduce  the  percentage  of 
people living in poverty from 18.6 to 13.7 per cent, and 
of  those  in  extreme  poverty  from  1.1  to  0.5  per  cent. 
Combating the adverse effects of climate change, a key 
challenge to achieving sustainable development, is also 
one of our priorities. 
Now more than ever, we must revitalize our global 
alliance  for  development  and  increase  international 
cooperation.
Finally,  if  the  strength  and  sustainability  of  the 
rule  of  law  at  the  national  level  depend  on  the  active 
participation  of  citizens  in  defending  the  standards 
that  ensure  every  society’s  continued  coexistence  and 
development,  at  the  international  level  it  requires  full 
compliance with the principles of international law and 
the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and 
strong commitment to the causes of peace, the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and multilateralism. That is the 
main goal that Uruguay has pursued during the process 
of  building  the  United  Nations,  both  as  a  founding 
Member  and  through  its  participation  in  the  activities 
of the General Assembly. It is our ambition to continue 
those efforts from within the Security Council should 
our  country  be  elected,  as  we  hope,  to  that  body  as  a 
non-permanent member for the period 2016-2017.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Apisai  Ielemia,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Environment, Trade, Labour and Tourism of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Ielemia  (Tuvalu):  It  is  my  great  honour  and 
pleasure  to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  the 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  people  and  Government 
of  Tuvalu.  As  Tuvalu  will  commemorate  the  thirty-
fourth  anniversary  of  its  independence  on  Monday 
next  week,  1  October,  let  me  take  this  opportunity  to 
acknowledge with profound appreciation the continued 
assistance and support given us by the United Nations, 
the  international  community  and  in  particular  our 
traditional  development  partners  in  our  pursuit  of  our 
development goals.
The overarching theme, “Bringing about adjustment 
or settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful means”, together with a myriad of core issues 
that have been chosen for the Assembly’s sixty-seventh 
session,  is  fully  supported  by  Tuvalu.  In  view  of 
circumstances facing the world today, there is certainly 
an urgent and critical need for the United Nations and 
for  each  Member  State  in  particular  to  address  those 
issues, individually or collectively.
As  a  small  and  peace-loving  nation,  Tuvalu 
welcomes  and  fully  supports  the  important  services 
provided by the United Nations and other organizations 
in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  around  the 
world, especially in conflict regions. We firmly believe 
that the use of force through military or violent action 
as a means for settling disputes and conflicts should be 
avoided at all costs. It is also important that countries 
involved  in  such  disputes  should  be  encouraged 
and  supported  in  discussing  the  root  causes  of  their 
differences among themselves in a non-confrontational 
manner.
We  concur  fully  with  the  President’s  vision  that 
we cannot be defeated by terrorists, extremists and the 
sponsors  and  supporters  who  back  them.  The  world 
we  want  to  give  our  future  generations  is  not  one  of 
terrorism and fanaticism, or of  proliferation of weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  maritime  piracy,  organized 
crime, drugs and narcotic smuggling, child labour and 
trafficking,  slavery  and  religious  intolerance.  In  the 
United  Nations,  we  strive  for  international  peace  and 
security; that is the world we want to give to all future 
generations.
Faced with globalized agendas, the United Nations 
must  cooperate  and  seek  engagement  with  other 
organizations  and  their  memberships  for  partnerships 
in  development  activities.  The  United  Nations  should 
also seek to ensure participatory planning in the design 
of any engagement so that we co-opt and work together 
with the existing diverse fabric of our societies, whose 
issues  we  are  trying  to  address  and  assist  with.  The 
United  Nations  should  also  align  its  programmes  and 
activities  with  those  of  the  host  country’s  needs  and 
action  frameworks,  heeding  the  distinctiveness  of  our 
membership.
When  Tuvalu  became  the  189th  Member  of  the 
United Nations in September 2000, we were conscious 
of  the  complexity  and  breadth  of  the  United  Nations 
agenda  in  comparison  with  our  relatively  modest 
capacity.  Yet  there  was  one  issue  that  we  were 
confidently  determined  to  bring  to  the  fore.  Does  the 
United Nations hear the plea of small island developing 
States  (SIDS)  for  fair  treatment  by  the  international 
community?
Today,  12  years  later,  we  consider  this  lasting 
concern  almost  totally  unanswered.  That  may  sound 
32 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
surprising to some representatives, as we all tend to be 
under the impression that much work, time and energy 
has been spent over the past two decades for the benefit 
of  SIDS.  Without  going  into  detail  on  the  state  of  the 
SIDS agenda, I would like to make three observations 
on  the  subject  and  outline  Tuvalu’s  intentions  in  the 
same vein.
First,  as  much  as  we  appreciate  the  work  of 
various  United  Nations  departments  and  programmes 
on  SIDS,  we  observe  that  this  work  has  been  almost 
entirely focused on stating and indefinitely reiterating 
the challenges and problems SIDS are facing. We have 
seen nearly 20 General Assembly resolutions on SIDS 
adopted since the Global Conference on the Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  held 
in  Barbados,  and  numerous  reports  of  the  Secretary-
General on the subject. Two United Nations conferences 
on SIDS have been organized, and now new momentum 
is gathering towards a third conference in 2014.
Secondly, there is no part of the SIDS work in the 
United  Nations  that  has  ever  generated  international 
support measures specially reserved for SIDS. In other 
words, in 20 years the United Nations has not been able 
to hear and answer the pleas our island States have been 
making  for  special  treatment.  SIDS  status  and  SIDS-
specific treatment are truly what our small island States 
are  in  need  of,  just  as  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs) need the special treatment extended to them by 
the international community.
Thirdly, we would like to reply to those, within and 
outside the United Nations, who have been arguing that 
the case for special treatment of SIDS is not and should 
not  be  on  the  United  Nations  agenda,  because  special 
treatment of SIDS would imply the existence of a SIDS 
category,  and  apparently,  we  are  told,  SIDS  cannot 
be  considered  and  dealt  with  as  a  special  category. 
Therefore, SIDS are only an abstract notion deliberately 
kept undefined, because any clarity or debate on what 
they  are  and  what  precisely  could  be  done  for  them 
would be too challenging or disturbing.
That seemingly accepted sense of SIDS work in the 
United Nations does not match Tuvalu’s vision of what 
the United Nations ought to be doing in support of those 
countries. We believe that the time has come for us to 
spell it out; the third decade of United Nations work on 
SIDS should not be another round of lip service. That 
will  require  a  number  of  needed  special  international 
measures  for  SIDS  to  be  identified  and,  naturally 
also, that some order be put in the definition of SIDS, 
as  a  necessary  condition  for  making  SIDS  a  genuine, 
internationally accepted special category of countries.
Tuvalu  greatly  appreciates  the  decision  taken 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  note  the 
recommendation  of  the  Committee  for  Development 
Policy  to  graduate  Tuvalu  from  the  least  developed 
country category and to consider that issue at its next 
substantive session in 2013. That will allow the Council 
the opportunity for full consideration of the particular 
challenges  Tuvalu  faces.  In  that  regard,  despite  the 
fact  that  Tuvalu  has  met  two  of  the  three  criteria  for 
graduation from LDC status, there is an urgent need for 
the  United  Nations  to  revisit  such  criteria  in  order  to 
reflect and capture the real situation of the economies 
of the countries eligible for graduation. 
We  believe  that  treating  the  case  of  Tuvalu  the 
same  way  one  deals  with  other  countries  is  a  denial 
of  what  decades  of  United  Nations  advocacy  have  set 
in  place.  It  would  be  something  akin  to  the  principle 
of  equal  treatment,  namely,  the  principle  of  special 
treatment,  which  is  precisely  the  foundation  of  the 
very  existence  of  LDC  status.  If  the  geographical 
limitations  and  extreme  vulnerabilities  of  Tuvalu  do 
not  justify  special  consideration,  what  is  the  purpose 
of special and differentiated treatment, the cornerstone 
of  international  cooperation?  Obviously,  countries 
are acutely uneven and unequal, and treating them on 
the basis of a one-size-fits-all paradigm would simply 
be  wrong.  Tuvalu  looks  forward  to  the  continued 
understanding and support of members of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  on  the  question  of  its  graduation 
from the LDC category.
Tuvalu  also  accords  the  highest  priority  to  the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). Tuvalu has passionately pursued those Goals, 
and  we  sincerely  thank  the  donor  community  for  its 
invaluable  support,  be  it  in-kind  or  financial.  As  we 
progress to the end of the MDGs in 2015, we continue 
to seek such partnerships so as to ensure that the MDGs 
are achieved fully and effectively as we anticipate the 
transition to the sustainable development goals. 
We  are  also  fully  committed  to  the  strategic 
implementation of the essential dictates of the Barbados 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  the  Mauritius 
Strategy  for  its  further  implementation,  and  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
12-52443
33
A/67/PV.18
Countries  for  the  Decade  2011-2020,  and  seek  the 
cooperation  of  development  partners  to  provide,  in  a 
timely and predictable manner, financial and technical 
support to ensure their successful implementation.
in  reducing 
We  have  repeatedly  called  on  developed  and 
emerging  countries  and  their  partners  to  take  a 
leadership  role 
their  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  and  to  help  small  and  poor  countries  like 
Tuvalu  in  their  mitigation  and  adaptation  activities. 
Tuvalu’s security and nationhood are continuously being 
threatened  by  the  adverse  impact  of  climate  change, 
especially  by  sea-level  rise.  Much  has  been  said  and 
documented  on  the  root  causes  of  climate  change  and 
its negative consequences for many countries, not just 
the most vulnerable small island States like Tuvalu. Yet 
the ongoing global pleas to address such consequences 
have so far fallen on ignorant, if not deaf, ears.
Our smallness and lack of natural endowments, as 
well  as  being  only  four  metres  above  sea  level,  leave 
us extremely vulnerable to natural shocks, particularly 
to  the  effects  of  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise.  As 
is  well  known,  sea-level  rise  and  flooding  threaten 
Tuvalu’s  limited  agricultural  production,  undermine 
food security, and increase our vulnerability to supply 
disruptions.  We  therefore  support  advances  and  urge 
perseverance  with  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol 
as the primary international, intergovernmental forum 
for  negotiating  the  global  response  to  climate  change 
in order to give substance to international agreements.
As  a  sea-locked  country,  we  in  the  Pacific  have 
offered the resources of our vast oceans to be utilized 
by  developed  countries.  We  ask  the  partner  countries 
to  be  more  responsible  and  to  reward  us  as  guardians 
with the appropriate compensations that are conducive 
to  our  development  needs,  as  well  as  environmentally 
recompensing. Domestically, Tuvalu is pursuing energy 
efficiencies, development strategies and goals that are 
both green or blue and sustainable. We have challenged 
ourselves to be 100 per cent renewable in 2020 in our 
energy sector. We could miss the mark, but we will not 
be comforted by remaining inactive, be it in our vision 
or in our action. We have asked developed countries to 
reduce carbon emissions; we will do the same at home, 
regardless of scale contrasts.
With  the  advent  of  technology,  Tuvalu  seeks 
the  donors’  assistance  in  realizing  their  pledges  to 
establish early-warning systems pertaining to tsunamis 
or  tropical  cyclones  in  order  to  mitigate  any  risk  and 
subsequent cost to Tuvalu. Tuvalu wishes also to offer 
its established trust fund protocols to the United Nations 
and  development  partners’  funding  mechanisms  for 
climate  change  adaptation  as  innovative  financing 
instruments  and  architecture  for  channelling  such 
resources  to  Tuvalu.  Our  trust  funds  are  governed  by 
international  agreements  and  renowned  worldwide  as 
transparent  and  accountable  mechanisms  with  high 
international standards of accounting and governance.
Many  suggestions  for  enhancing  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  have  been  documented.  We  also 
continue  to  hear  from  the  experts  and  technical 
advisers  of  the  development  of  alternative  energy 
drives  and  technologies,  be  they  solar,  wind  or  wave. 
In our region, and I believe in many other remote areas, 
we  ask  how  we  can  get  those  new  technologies  to  be 
readily available and price-effective to the membership 
of the United Nations, especially LDCs and SIDS. We 
therefore urge the United Nations and the Secretariat to 
act as facilitators of such developments and to expedite 
technology  transfers,  where  appropriate,  to  bring  our 
many words and resolutions to fruition.
Our  collective  and  global  efforts  to  have  peace 
and  security  as  a  prerequisite  for  the  stability  needed 
for  global  economic  growth,  sustainable  development 
and  social  progress  will  be  meaningless  if  the  United 
Nations  continues  not  to  recognize  and  acknowledge 
Taiwan’s  significant  contribution  and  efforts  towards 
the  East  China  Sea  peace  initiative  for  regional 
stability  and  peace.  Furthermore,  Taiwan’s  continued 
contribution  to  the  international  community  as  one of 
the  committed  development  partners  and  responsible 
stakeholders in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals  should  be  recognized  and  accepted  by  the 
United  Nations  system  as  a  valuable  contribution  to 
our  collective  efforts.  In  that  regard,  Tuvalu  calls 
upon  the  United Nations  subsidiary bodies,  especially 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  to  recognize  and  allow  Taiwan  to  participate 
in  and  contribute  meaningfully  to  their  meetings  and 
activities without reservations.
legitimate  claim 
Incidentally,  any 
for  new 
nationhood or independence, be it in the Pacific region 
or the world over, should be supported, as colonialism 
in  any  form  is  contradictory  to  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  just  as  any  form  of  discrimination  by  race, 
gender or belief is not accepted in a civilized, modern 
and free world.
34 
12-52443
  must  work 
I  conclude  by  asking  that  the  United  Nations 
continue  to  cooperate  in  an  unprecedented  way. 
The  United  Nations 
together  more 
enterprisingly  and  reform  our  strategies  to  conform 
to  new  developments,  contemporary  innovations  and 
issues.  Holding  and  hosting  meeting  after  meeting  is 
a good engagement strategy and directs our activities. 
However, delaying the implementation of resolutions is 
detrimental, as resolution after resolution is shelved or 
deferred until they are redundant. The United Nations 
Charter,  I  believe,  is  premised  on  timely  actions  and 
achievements  to  gauge  whether  we  are  effective  and 
sustainable or merely validating our inactivity.
I  wish  the  President,  the  Secretary-General  and 
all our membership every success in the sixty-seventh 
session of the General Assembly.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. K. Shanmugam, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Singapore.
Mr.  Shanmugam 
I  extend  my 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. I wish him every success in the year ahead.
(Singapore): 
The  global  economic  situation  remains  uncertain. 
Europe  is  in  recession  and  growth  in  other  places  is 
weakening.  There  is  increasing  concern  that  this 
combination  of  weak  consumer  demand  in  developing 
countries  and  a  continuing  crisis  in  the  eurozone  may 
lead  to  a  global  recession.  An  even  greater  danger, 
especially  for  small  States  like  Singapore  that  depend 
on global trade, is the risk of increased protectionism.
Populist pressures in countries affected by austerity 
and  economic  crisis  can  cause  further  instability  as 
politicians  become  unwilling  or  unable  to  deal  with 
long-term,  structural  economic  problems.  While 
emerging  economies  focus  on  maintaining  economic 
growth,  developed  economies  are  preoccupied  with 
both immediate and structural socioeconomic problems. 
Understandably, there is less focus on strategic regional 
and  international  issues.  However,  serious,  long-term 
challenges  remain.  Rising  income  disparities,  climate 
change  issues  and  worries  about  food  security  are  not 
being adequately addressed at the global level.
Amid  that  uncertainty,  no  State  or  group  of 
States  currently  has  the  power  to  definitively  set  the 
international agenda. Decision-making and governance 
on  global  issues  have  and  will  continue  to  become 
increasingly complicated. The multiplicity of interests 
A/67/PV.18
makes  finding  consensus  in  international  forums  that 
much  more  difficult.  Frustration  over  the  inability  of 
existing  multilateral  institutions  to  deal  with  those 
global challenges is growing, and that has given rise to 
a greater tendency for countries to turn to smaller and 
more exclusive groupings outside of the United Nations 
framework for solutions.
The  Group  of  20  (G-20)  is  one  such  example. 
Without the G-20, the 2008 economic crisis may have 
well led to a global depression. However, the G-20 is an 
exclusive grouping; it leaves out the vast majority of the 
United Nations membership, particularly small States. 
It is a self-selected group, but one that is here to stay in 
the  foreseeable  future.  The  Global  Governance  Group 
was  therefore  established  by  like  minded-countries, 
including  Singapore,  to  strengthen  the  engagement 
between  the  G-20  and  the  general  membership  of  the 
United  Nations.  Even  as  we  work  with  the  G-20,  we 
should look for ways to strengthen and reform existing 
multilateral institutions, including the United Nations, 
the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and 
the  World  Trade  Organization.  That  will  help  us  to 
achieve  greater  efficiency,  rather  than  continuing  to 
invent more smaller groupings.
Many of us often fault the United Nations, including 
the Security Council, for its inability to act to resolve 
ongoing conflicts. However, as frustrations mount, let 
us  not  forget  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  organs, 
including  the  Security  Council,  can  do  only  what 
its  Members  choose  to  do,  so  we  are  responsible  for 
the  current  state  of  affairs.  The  United  Nations  is  an 
organization of sovereign nation States. It has no more 
authority  than  what  its  Members  give  it.  Any  failure 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations  in 
maintaining peace and security represents a failure of 
the Member States themselves.
We  should  therefore  support  ongoing  and  new 
efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  the  United  Nations, 
instead of denigrating it. The United Nations is unique 
in its ability to come up with global solutions because 
of  its  universal  membership,  legitimacy,  experience 
and  presence  on  the  ground.  No  other  organization 
is  as  well  equipped  to  do  so.  A  significant  expansion 
of  the  United  Nations  mediation  capabilities,  good 
offices and peacekeeping efforts has made it central to 
international  crisis  prevention  and  the  mediation  and 
settlement  of  disputes.  We  should  continue  to  support 
the strengthening of those aspects.
12-52443
35
A/67/PV.18
in 
The  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  with  their  veto  powers,  have  the  primary 
responsibility  to  make  the  Council  more  effective. 
That  is  why  Singapore  has  consistently  called  for 
improvement 
the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods.  The  Security  Council  is  not  a  rubber  stamp 
for the interests of its individual members. Its power, if 
not visibly and openly wielded for the greater good and 
to discharge its mandate in all instances, will eventually 
undermine  its  legitimacy  and  leadership  role  in  the 
international community. That is in no one’s interest.
Singapore  believes  that  the  long-term  goal  of  the 
United Nations should be to provide an effective system 
of  international  law  and  resilient  mechanisms  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  That  will  provide  a 
platform for States under threat to bring their problems 
before those mechanisms with confidence, rather than 
trying to resolve them by force.
The President has selected an important theme for 
the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly: 
bringing about adjustment or settlement of international 
disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful  means.  In  a  fast-
changing  environment,  where  the  global  governance 
structure  is  fragmented  and  coordination  is  difficult, 
the  parameters  of  dialogue  among  States  become 
crucial. 
In that dialogue among States, respect for the rule 
of  law  by  all  parties  is  essential.  If  that  were  not  the 
case,  small  States  would  lose  their  independence  and 
autonomy, and even the larger and stronger States could 
never feel entirely secure. A stable international system 
is  critical  to  our  collective  security.  Small  States  like 
Singapore are vulnerable even at the best of times, and 
these are not the best of times. It is therefore particularly 
important  for  small  States  to  be  in  an  international 
environment  where  international  law  and  institutions 
based  on  law  can  flourish.  We  need  a  predictable  and 
stable, rules-based international system in order for all 
of us to survive.
in 
the 
Singapore  firmly  believes 
importance 
of  safeguarding  the  international  rule  of  law.  We 
have  participated  actively 
in  various  multilateral 
negotiations,  used  international  dispute  mechanisms, 
such  as  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  to 
resolve disputes we have had with other countries. Our 
view  is  that  disputes,  including  those  over  territorial 
sovereignty, can and should be resolved peacefully, in 
accordance with international law.  
As  major  beneficiaries  of  a  stable  international 
system,  it  is  incumbent  upon  small  States  to  not  only 
support the international rule of law, but to also speak 
up  against  its  violation.  This  year,  the  105-member 
Forum of Small States will commemorate its twentieth 
anniversary  with  a  high-level  conference  on  small 
States  on  1  October.  The  conference  will  discuss  the 
role of small States in international relations, including 
our  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  and  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  We  invite  all  Member  States 
to attend the conference. We hope that the conference 
will  be  a  platform  for  small  States  to  share  our 
experiences  and  remind  the  international  community 
that small States, too, have contributions to make to the 
maintenance of an international system that benefits all 
nations of any size.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and African Integration of the Republic of Chad.
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  allow  me  on  behalf  of  the  Chadian  delevation 
to  wholeheartedly  thank  the  President  for  selecting 
the theme for the sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. 
That  subject  is  at  the  very  heart  of  the  principles  that 
underlie the existence of our Organization, and reflects 
the global concerns of our day. 
Indeed, the world is in an period of unprecedented 
tension, perhaps even more serious than that following 
the Cold War. From Afghanistan to Mali; from Pakistan 
to Somalia; from Libya to Syria; and from the Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  to  that  of  the  Sudan  and  South 
Sudan, most of the crises that have recently shaken and 
continue to shake our planet, while undoubtedly rooted 
in  political  and  social  claims,  also  have  considerable 
religious and cultural undertones that are often difficult 
to address. 
Africa is the crucible of all the scourges affecting 
the world. The war and attacks in Somalia, the situation 
in  Mali,  the  crises  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  and  between  the  two  Sudans,  violence  in 
Libya  and  outbreaks  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  the  Central 
African Republic are situations which many attempts to 
resolve have proved ineffective. Based on the principle 
that  without  peace  and  security  development  is  not 
possible, the international community, embodied in the 
United  Nations,  has  the  firm  obligation  to  contribute 
36 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
to  establishing  peace  by  making  use  of  all  the  legal 
mechanisms at its disposal for settling conflict. 
The  Organization  has  been  particularly  active 
in  recent  years  in  different  theatres  of  conflict,  such 
as  Afghanistan,  Darfur,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since its inception, 
the United Nations has never been so involved in different 
hotbeds of tension around the world. We commend that 
presence because of its calming and legitimizing effect 
on  populations  and  even  on  protagonists.  However, 
we  also  need  to  ponder  the  form  and  effectiveness  of 
that  presence.  The  stalemate  in  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  and  the  crisis  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo, despite the massive and costly deployments 
of  the  forces  mandated  by  the  United  Nations,  clearly 
reflect the inability of the international community to 
impose peace where it is necessary. 
The crisis in Mali comes as a test and a challenge 
for the international community. Along with that crisis, 
obscurantist  and  violent  religious  fundamentalism, 
drug  and  human  trafficking  and  irredentist  claims 
have taken root in the very heart of Africa today. Can 
the  world  continue  to  stand  by  for  much  longer  given 
that that gangrene, of which Mali is only the epicentre, 
threatens to spread throughout the entire Sahel? 
Our  delegation  commends 
the  determination 
of  the  international  community  seen  at  the  high-
level  meeting  on  the  Sahel  that  was  organized  on  the 
initiative  of  the  Secretary-General.  We  commend  the 
commitments of France, the Economic Community of 
West African States and above all those of the primary 
party concerned, namely, Mali, to act to eradicate that 
gangrene.  The  United  Nations,  too,  needs  to  expedite 
procedures and act quickly by adopting a resolution that 
would  authorize  the  intervention  of  an  international 
military force. 
I  would  like  to  take  advantage  of  my  presence  at 
this  rostrum  to  warmly  commend  Mr.  Omer  Hassan 
A. Al-Bashir of the Sudan and Mr. Salva Kiir of South 
Sudan,  who  overcame  their  differences  and  reached 
a  peace  and  security  agreement,  albeit  partial.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  the  agreement  will  quickly  lead 
to  a  final  understanding,  which  is  so  necessary  to  the 
progress  of  the  countries  and  to  the  stability  of  the 
subregion. 
It is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that within 
the framework of subregional initiatives with respect to 
peace and security in the Sahel, the member countries of 
the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States (CEN-SAD) 
have  undertaken  a  reform  of  our  organization,  which 
will incorporate peace and security dimensions into its 
updated texts. The President of the Republic of Chad, 
Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  has  invited  his  colleagues  from 
member countries to a summit meeting in N’Djamena 
on 29 November to adopt new texts aimed at refocusing 
CEN-SAD’s objectives on the specific concerns of the 
region. 
The  ability  of  extremist  groups  to  cause  harm 
across  borders  calls  for  a  collective  and  appropriate 
response.  Our  community,  CEN-SAD,  which  includes 
almost all of the countries of the Sahel and the Saraha, 
seems to be the appropriate structure in which to bring 
together all our response strategies.  
Drawing on lessons from the difficulties experienced 
by  the  United  Nations  on  the  ground,  Chad  requested 
the departure in 2010 of the United Nations Mission in 
the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT). 
The Mission had been mandated to stabilize the region 
and  protect  Sudanese  refugee  camps  in  Darfur  and 
those of internally displaced persons  in eastern Chad. 
Despite a huge budget and considerable resources, that 
force did not prove to be an effective deterrent. It left the 
bulk of the work to the Détachement intégré de sécurité 
(DIS),  a  special  national  Chadian  force  made  up  600 
men  and  women.  After  MINURCAT’s  departure, 
Chad  decided  to  entrust  DIS  with  the  protection  of 
refugees  and  displaced  persons  and  any  humanitarian 
organizations that provided assistance. A joint support 
programme  for  DIS  was  signed  in  February  2011  in 
order  to  mobilize  the  necessary  logistical  financial 
support to enable it to operate. The overall budget was 
estimated  to  be  $20  million,  about  2  per  cent  of  the 
budget allocated to MINURCAT, which, I would remind 
the Assembly, amounted to some $800 million per year. 
That  support  has  not  yet  been  forthcoming,  and  Chad 
has  been  bearing  the  cost  of  the  unit  alone,  estimated 
at  about  $4  million  per  year.  I  would  also  remind  the 
Assembly that the responsibility of providing security 
to  refugees,  displaced  persons  and  humanitarian 
organizations  living  in  that  region  cannot  and  should 
not be left to Chad alone. The international community 
has  the  obligation  to  consider  that  issue  and  address 
it.  That  is  why  Chad  is  reiterating  the  special  appeal 
it launched from this rostrum last year, requesting our 
Organization to take heed.
Africa  sorely  needs  international  solidarity,  not 
only to settle the conflicts and crises sweeping through 
12-52443
37
A/67/PV.18
it, but also for its development. In both cases, the results 
have been disappointing. The Millennium Development 
Goals,  official  development  assistance  and  debt  relief, 
in  sum  all  of  the  commitments  made  in  that  regard, 
have  either  not  been  met  or  have  been  met  only 
halfway. We would remind the Assembly that poverty, 
unemployment  and,  at  times,  despair  are  the  scourges 
that  push  young  Africans  to  extremism  and  to  seek 
better prospects elsewhere. Africa needs  assistance on 
a large scale, not in small doses, in order to help those 
young  people  and  give  them  new  confidence  in  their 
continent.  This  would  not  absolve  the  African  States 
from shouldering their primary responsibility to create 
the right conditions for progress and prosperity. 
For 
its  part,  my  country,  Chad,  under 
the 
leadership of President Idriss Deby Itno, is continuing 
the  necessary  political  and  economic  reforms  for  its 
development  and  stability.  We  have  just  held  the  first 
municipal  elections  in  our  political  history,  and  there 
were  presidential  and  legislative  elections  in  2011.  In 
addition,  we  are  reviewing  ways  of  establishing  new 
arrangements for political dialogue with the democratic 
opposition,  similar  to  those  which  enabled  us  to  hold 
the latest elections in a calm and tranquil environment. 
For  that  reason,  we  are  patiently  working  to 
consolidate the rule of law and strengthen the values of 
tolerance and democracy within Chadian society. That 
is a long and arduous process in a country that has just 
been  through  three  decades  of  violence  and  political 
instability.  With  stability  restored  and  socioeconomic 
progress achieved, Chad would like to make its modest 
contribution  to  building  a  world  of  justice  and  peace. 
For  that  reason,  my  country  is  for  the  first  time  a 
candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security 
Council during the elections of October 2013. 
The  efforts  undertaken  by  my  country  have, 
however,  been  hampered  by  unexpected  events:  first, 
the  crisis  in  Libya,  which  required  us  to  strengthen 
security along the borders with that country, in addition 
to our efforts to secure our borders with the Sudan, the 
Central African Republic and the Lake Chad region that 
borders Nigeria and the Niger; secondly, the arrival of 
nearly 100,000 Chadians who had f led the war in Libya, 
the majority of whom were young people needing help 
with  reintegration;  and,  thirdly,  the  current  f loods, 
caused by exceptionally heavy rains. The Government’s 
appeal for help for the victims of the disaster has not yet 
received the expected response. 
Despite  all  those  constraints  and  the  sacrifices 
undertaken by Chad, we have not been able to benefit 
from  the  debt  relief  that  comes  with  reaching  the 
completion point. We therefore call on our bilateral and 
multilateral  partners  to  take  into  account  our  unique 
situation and support us as we move forward. 
The theme of our session this year reminds us that 
all of the formulas that have been used to address the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  have  failed.  As  the  crisis 
goes on and on, it is becoming accepted; yet, it is at the 
very  root  of  the  worst  violence  the  world  has  seen  in 
recent years. The community of nations cannot behave 
like an ostrich indefinitely, allowing a crisis as old as the 
United Nations itself to drag on interminably — a crisis 
which is a constant threat to peace and the regional and 
global balance. Here, too, old postures need to change 
and robust initiatives need to be taken to put an end to 
the conflict, which has gone on far too long.
The international realities of our time should also 
strengthen our determination to bring about the reform 
of the Security Council. The primary innovation should 
be  to  expand  its  membership,  with  the  admission  of 
Africa  as  a  permanent  member  with  the  right  of  veto. 
The  world  has  greatly  changed.  We  therefore  need  to 
adapt our global governance to these developments.
In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  Chad,  through 
me,  would  like  to  express  how  much  we  admire  the 
newly  elected  President’s  steering  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. We also would like to pay tribute to 
the Secretary-General for his personal commitment in 
the quest for peace worldwide. We firmly hope that his 
efforts will be successful and bring about more justice 
and serenity for humankind.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Hamady Ould Hamady, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mr. Ould Hamady (Mauritania) (spoke in Arabic): 
I am pleased and honoured at the outset to express our 
heartfelt  congratulations  on  the  election  of  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session. We have every confidence in his 
efforts and in everything that he will undertake in order 
to maintain the gains made in preserving international 
peace  and  security  and  to  promote  an  international 
order  that  will  ensure  peace,  prosperity  and  progress 
for  all  humankind.  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  the 
proficiency,  political  skills  and  spirit  of  responsibility 
that he demonstrated when he twice served as Minister 
38 
12-52443
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia will give 
him the ability to do so.
106  contingents,  totalling  24,536  refugees,  between 
29 January 2008 and 25 March 2012.
A/67/PV.18
I  would  also  like  to  underscore  the  continual 
efforts  of  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, and 
his  determination  to  promote  dialogue  as  an  effective 
tool for cooperation and to formulate the best possible 
solutions to international issues.
We  would  like,  too,  to  congratulate  and  thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  steadfast 
activities  to  preserve  international  peace  and  security 
and to promote the Millennium Development Goals, as 
well as to mobilize the international community to deal 
with climate change, which now has a negative impact 
on the future of humankind.
The sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly 
is  taking  place  at  a  time  when  many  regions  of  the 
world  are  facing  particularly  difficult  political  and 
economic  conditions.  Aware  of  the  importance  of  the 
role  and  responsibility  of  our  citizens  in  steering  the 
destiny  of  the  country,  we  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Mauritania    have  been  able  to  carry  out  a  peaceful, 
smooth transition from a repressive totalitarian regime 
and the mismanagement of public wealth to democratic 
rule  based  on  credible  constitutional  institutions, 
thereby restoring the rule of law.
We  are  also  pleased  to  see  that  the  peaceful 
settlement of national and international disputes is the 
theme selected for this session of the General Assembly, 
and we appreciate the results of the high-level dialogue 
on that important subject.
From  that  standpoint,  my  country  has  enacted  a 
series  of  laws  and  reforms  enshrining  individual  and 
collective  political  freedoms,  guaranteeing  the  people 
as a whole the full exercise of those basic rights, subject 
to  the  rule  of  law,  and  ensuring  the  independence  of 
the  judiciary.  In  that  context,  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Mauritania  has  sought  to  fulfil  all  the  obligations 
and  commitments  it  undertook  under  the  tripartite 
agreement with the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, on the one hand, and the 
Government  of  the  host  State,  the  sister  Republic  of 
Senegal,  on  the  other.  The  agreement  concerned    the 
organized return of Mauritanians who had been living 
in  Senegal  since  the  end  of  the  1980s.  The  operation 
was  completed  in  perfect  accord  with  all  the  parties 
involved  and  consisted  of  the  organized  return  of 
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania,  personally  presided 
over  an  official  ceremony  on  25  March  in  the  city 
of  Rosso,  which  is  the  capital  of  the  state  of  Traza. 
That  was  an  opportunity  for  the  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees,  Mr.  Antonio  Guterres,  to  solemnly 
proclaim  that  the  issue  of  the  Mauritanian  refugees 
in  Senegal  was  finally  closed.  Along  the  same  lines, 
the  Government  undertook  to  resolve  the  issue  of  the 
so-called  humanitarian  debt  by  paying  those  victims 
who were entitled to compensation and by settling the 
situation of members of the armed and security forces, 
Government workers and contract civil servants, whose 
rights were also restored.
There has been a genuine and transparent political 
dialogue between the parties of the President’s majority 
and certain democratic opposition parties, which led to 
an agreement late last year. The agreement included the 
creation of  a national independent electoral commission 
that  is  completely  autonomous  and  that  will  fully 
oversee  the  upcoming  elections,  beginning  with  the 
legislative  and  municipal  elections.  In  addition,  there 
have  been  many  important  constitutional  reforms,  as 
called for by the democratic opposition.
ensuring 
transparency 
in 
Mauritania  has  worked 
to  strengthen  good 
governance  by 
the 
management  of  public  funds  and  by  enhancing  the 
independent judicial system, particularly by improving 
the  conditions  of 
their 
independence. The economy has seen sustained growth, 
including the implementation of ambitious programmes 
aimed at improving the living conditions of the people, 
especially those with low incomes.
judges  and  guaranteeing 
Since the accession to the presidency of Mr. Ould 
Abdel Aziz, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has been  
reactivating  its  presence  in  regional  and  international 
organizations, first and foremost in the United Nations 
and  its  specialized  agencies.  We  adhere  fully  to  its 
noble ideals, and we comply with the resolutions, as a 
strategic choice for our foreign policy. In this regard, we 
reaffirm our support for reform of the United Nations 
system, particularly the Security Council. 
We reiterate our desire to see the African continent 
receive  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Council,  since  it 
is  the  only  continent  that  does  not  have  permanent 
representation in the body that addresses international 
12-52443
39
A/67/PV.18
peace and security. That is true despite the fact that one 
billion  people  inhabit  the  continent  of  Africa  and  two 
thirds  of  peacekeeping  operations  take  place  there.  In 
addition,  we  call  for  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Council 
for the Arab Group because of its demographic weight 
vis-à-vis  the  global  population  and  its  considerable 
economic potential, in particular in the area of energy.
support 
My  country  provides  effective 
to 
intergovernmental  efforts  that  have  been  taking  place 
for  a  number  of  years  to  find  a  solution  that  enjoys 
the  consensus  of  Member  States  on  the  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  in  general,  the  working  methods 
and  mechanisms  of  its  decision-making  bodies,  and 
above  all,  membership  in  the  Security  Council  and 
the  issue  of  defining  its  authority  and  codifying  its 
working  relationship  with  the  General  Assembly  in 
order  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  our  Organization 
in  faithfully  reflecting  the  will  of  the  international 
community.
We note with great satisfaction the tireless efforts 
to achieve consensus during the sixty-seventh session, 
including with regard to the conclusions of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which  will  undoubtedly  contribute  —  if  they  are 
implemented, obviously — to limiting the major risks 
facing our planet, in particular the phenomena of global 
warming and climate change, which are now the clear 
concern and danger facing humankind.
We welcome the outcomes of the Second Conference 
to  Review  Progress  Made  in  the  Implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent, 
Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms 
and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,  which  led  to  a 
consensus  agreement  on  a  programme  of  action  to 
prevent the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons.
the  Millennium  Summit,  despite 
Despite  the  efforts  made  and  results  achieved 
during the Assembly’s sixty-sixth and earlier sessions, 
including 
the 
establishment of goals and the adoption of an agenda to 
achieve  them,  most  developing  countries,  particularly 
the least developed, are falling short of achieving their 
objectives. This is due to a range of factors, including, 
for  example,  endemic  unemployment,  particularly 
among young people; the prevalence of extreme poverty 
among the most vulnerable segments of society; and the 
slowing of growth and stagnation of the global economy. 
Foreign  direct  investment  is  declining  in  Africa.  The 
prices of basic goods on international markets are rising, 
which has a direct impact on purchasing power in many 
poor countries, where a large part of the population lives 
on less than $1 per day. Rates of net financial transfers 
to  developing  countries  are  falling,  and  revenue  from 
tourism  is  falling  acutely.  Infant  mortality  is  rising. 
The  heavy  debt burden  seriously  slows  the  economies 
of developing countries, especially least developed, and 
directly affects the already modest financial resources 
of  the  countries,  thereby  hampering  their  ability  to 
meet  their  basic  needs  in  terms  of  infrastructure  and 
public services.
Against  this  worrying  backdrop,  we  call  on  rich 
countries  and  donors  to  honour  their  commitment  to 
contribute  to  the  economies  of  developing  countries, 
giving priority to least developed, so that they can have 
acceptable  access  to  public  services,  thus  ensuring 
peaceful  civil  order,  security,  stability  and  social 
cohesion  in  those  countries,  and  thereby  safeguard 
peace around the world.
to  provide  citizens  decent 
At the initiative, and with the support, of President 
Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  our  Government  has 
endeavoured 
living 
conditions and to help them in times of crises. In this 
connection, an emergency intervention plan, known as 
the  2012  Hope  Plan,  supported  by  some  $170  million 
of  State  budgetary  resources,  was  launched  to  deal 
with  declining  agricultural  production  and  pastures 
declining  owing  to  a  lack  of  rain  last  year,  as  our 
country is greatly dependent on farming and livestock-
raising.  This  ambitious  plan  is  providing  food  and 
drinking  water  for  both  people  and  livestock,  and  at 
affordable prices with a view to mitigate the impact of 
the crisis, in particular for the poorest segments of the 
population.  This  plan  has  been  unanimously  received 
as a clear success on all levels. It has allowed us to avert 
famine, epidemics and serious malnutrition in children, 
pregnant  women  and  nursing  mothers.  Even  livestock 
epidemics  have  been  averted,  with  losses  being  kept 
within reasonable limits. 
Our  Government  is  also  working  tirelessly  to 
broaden  access  to  education  and  to  improve  both  the 
quality and quantity of teaching and to broaden health 
coverage throughout the nation. We have built a modern 
cancer  hospital,  which  is  among  the  best  equipped  in 
the  region,  and  a  cardiology  hospital  and  a  diabetes 
centre, not to mention the establishment of 50 dialysis 
centres.  All  of  this  was  achieved  in  a  record  time  of 
just  over  three  years  since  the  accession  to  power  of 
40 
12-52443
President  Ould  Abdel  Aziz  following  the  elections  of 
18 July 2009.
Our subregion, the Sahel, has been for some years 
a  haven  for  organized  crime  networks  of  many  types, 
from  smuggling  drugs,  weapons  and  munitions  to 
human trafficking, illegal immigration, hostage-taking 
and especially terrorism. Together they have led to the 
extremely  serious  situation  currently  unfolding  in  our 
friendly  neighbour,  Mali,  whose  northern  regions  in 
particular  represent  a  serious  threat  to  the  security  of 
the entire subregion.
Given 
those  conditions,  we  are 
following 
developments in Mali with great concern. Reaffirming 
our  deep  commitment  to  the  unity  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Mali,  we  hope  that  the  international 
community,  through  the  Security  Council,  will  fully 
shoulder  its  responsibilities  and  take  the  necessary 
decisions, in consultation with the Government of Mali 
and  neighbouring  countries,  with  a  view  to  achieving 
a swift solution that would ensure the re-establishment 
of  State  authority  throughout  the  territory,  a  return 
to  peaceful  civil  order  for  all  of  Mali’s  people  and 
the  complete  and  lasting  eradication  of  terrorism  and 
organized  crime  in  northern  Mali  and  the  Sahel  as  a 
whole.
The Islamic Republic of Mauritania has steadfastly 
taken  principled  positions  with  regard  to  that  tragic 
crisis.  We  swiftly  condemned  the  military  coup  d’état 
that  ousted  the  elected  President  and  interrupted 
the  electoral  process.  We  have  strenuously  rejected 
separatist  claims  and  unequivocally  condemned  the 
occupation of northern Mali by armed terrorist groups. 
We  have  continuously  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to 
the  unity,  territorial  integrity  and  social  cohesion  of 
sisterly Mali.
My country swiftly and early took all appropriate 
measures  to  accept  refugees  from  Mali.  Today  there 
are  more  than  110,000  in  a  camp  that  has  become 
the  second  largest  city  in  Mauritania  in  terms  of 
population,  after  the  capital  Nouakchott.  Despite  the 
severe constraints linked to drought and the scarcity of 
financial resources, Mauritania is providing shelter to 
those refugees in satisfactory conditions that meet with 
the  approval  of  international  humanitarian  agencies, 
including  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees,  with  whom  we  work  very  closely  and 
maintain constant contact.
A/67/PV.18
My  country  is  perfectly  aware  of  the  close 
relationship  between 
security,  development  and 
democracy and of the fact that security is a necessary 
condition  for  development,  for  the  establishment  of 
democracy  and  for  strengthening  the  institutions  of 
the  rule  of  law.  We  have  therefore  made  the  adoption 
of the necessary array of legislation a top priority and 
has  committed  to  adopting  measures  to  guarantee 
the  security  and  safety  of  our  citizens  and  of  foreign 
nationals residing in our country among our hospitable, 
warm  people.  Our  armed  and  security  forces  have 
resolutely  and  courageously  faced  criminal  terrorist 
armed groups that have threatened our security and that 
of our guests. We have therefore been able to secure our 
borders and restore our sovereignty in each area of our 
country, and we now control all access points, despite 
the great length of our borders.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania  is  most 
seriously  following  the  dramatic  developments  of  the 
situation in the sisterly Syrian Arab Republic. We call 
on  all  parties  involved  to  put  an  end  to  the  escalating 
violence  and  to  focus  on  dialogue  in  order  to  find 
a  peaceful  solution  to  the  crisis  so  that  the  brotherly 
Syrian people can avoid further horror, desolation and 
destruction, as well as to ensure the unity and territorial 
integrity of Syria and the cohesion of its social fabric. 
We have every hope that the mission of the Special Joint 
Representative of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, whom my country 
fully supports, will be able to open the path to a positive 
solution  to  that  crisis,  which  poses  a  serious  threat  to 
the  peace  and  security  of  the  entire  Middle  East  and 
the entire world, with extremely negative effects on the 
Syrian economy.
We  enthusiastically  welcome 
the  democratic 
changes  that  took  place  in  Tunisia,  Yemen,  Egypt 
and  Libya.  We  are  convinced  they  will  contribute  to 
consolidating  civil  peace  and  security  and  will  bring 
about a shining future for those fraternal countries and 
peoples. 
We have the firm hope that the agreements recently 
reached between the Sudan and the Republic of South 
Sudan  will  lead  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  all 
pending  issues  between  those  two  States.  My  country 
is  also  wholly  satisfied  with  the  recent  legislative  and 
presidential  elections  in  Somalia.  We  hope  they  will 
strengthen peace and security in that brotherly country, 
which  has  been  devastated  for  two  decades  by  the 
collapse  of  central  power  and  by  a  number  of  other 
12-52443
41
A/67/PV.18
difficulties, including the destruction of infrastructure 
and  the  displacement  of  its  people,  armed  conf licts 
between warlords, and the activities of armed terrorist 
groups that have sown terror among innocent civilians. 
My  country  is  closely  following  the  issue  of 
Western  Sahara.  We  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  of  his  Special 
Envoy aimed at bringing about a lasting, comprehensive 
and  fair  solution  that  would  have  the  consent  of  both 
parties  and  would  serve  to  uphold  peace  and  security 
in  the  region  and  thereby  promote  the  establishment 
of a progressive, prosperous Arab Maghreb, which our 
people legitimately hope for.
The  Israeli-Arab  conf lict  is  a  permanent  source 
of  hatred  and  hostility  and  a  serious  threat  to  peace 
and  security  in  a  vital  region  of  the  world.  The  legal 
framework  and  the  general  conditions  to  address  that 
situation  have  been  defined  and  reiterated  for  a  long 
time  now,  in  a  spate  of  resolutions  in  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  That  has  all  been 
formally  confirmed  via  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative, 
which  is  based  on  the  principle  of  land  for  peace 
and  which  aims  at  resolving  the  ongoing  conf lict, 
Therefore  we  urge  the  international  community  to 
grant  the  request  that  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of 
the  Palestinian  Authority,  made  in  the  last  Assembly 
session, seeking the recognition of the Palestinian State 
by  the  international  community,  within  the  borders  of 
4 June 1967. 
That  is  the  only  way  to  end  the  suffering  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  which  has  gone  on  for  almost  as 
long as this Organization has existed. It is also the way 
for the international community to shoulder its historic 
responsibility  with  respect  to  Palestine  and  the  desire 
to  achieve  justice  and  to  ensure  credibility  and  equity 
between the two parties to the conf lict, in compliance 
with  the  relevant  resolutions  of  international  legality. 
We  also  reiterate  our  condemnation  of  the  standing 
embargo of the Gaza Strip and the crimes perpetrated 
by the Israeli war machine against Palestinian civilians, 
along  with  the  massive  destruction  of  their  properties 
and infrastructure.
It  is  no  longer  acceptable  that  all  those  paths 
continue  to  be  firmly  closed  off  to  an  unarmed 
Palestinian people, who have been assigned to fictitious 
negotiations  that  are  themselves  an  insurmountable 
obstacle to their achieving their most basic right, which 
is the establishment of their national independent State 
on the borders of 4 June 1967, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as its capital.
Promoting  a  culture  of  peace  and  the  values 
and  spirit  of  tolerance  among  different  peoples  and 
civilizations and establishing equity and justice among 
and between peoples at a global level are the right ways 
to safeguard peace and security in our world. There are 
outstanding  issues  without  any  prospects  for  solution. 
There is a huge gap between rich and poor. There are 
imbalances  in  the  global  economic  infrastructure  and 
an absence of genuine justice, equity, and equality. All 
of  those  issues  have  contributed  to  the  escalation  of 
areas of tension and the expansion of the phenomenon 
of terrorism. 
The 
Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania 
rejects 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We  are 
committed to our Islamic values, which require that we 
respect tolerance and fraternity and reject any form of 
extremism and violence. The international community 
urgently needs to study the reasons for extremism and 
the best ways to uproot and eradicate that problem.
The  noble 
the 
ideals  by  which 
international 
community  was  guided  during  the  creation  of  this 
Organization  will  be  respected  only  if  the  States  and 
peoples  of  the  world  can  benefit  from  the  potential 
of  development  to  provide  the  conditions  for  a  decent 
life  for  all  human  beings,  especially  in  developing 
countries,  while  respecting  the  values  of  freedom  and 
equity. That is how we will be able to achieve the values 
that are at the very basis of the United Nations.
The Acting President:  I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ali Ahmed Karti, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr. Karti  (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
allow  me  to  express  our  warm  congratulations  to 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremič  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. 
I am confident that his experience will ensure the 
success of our meetings. I should like to commend his 
predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, 
and  to  express  my  appreciation  and  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  efforts  to 
strengthen the role of the United Nations. It is my hope 
that  deliberations  at  this  session  will  be  successful, 
which  would  contribute  to  fulfilling  the  hopes  and 
aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  to  a  life  of 
security, peace and stability, on the basis of the values 
42 
12-52443
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
time  frame,  which  led  to  the  known  referendum  in 
which the people of South Sudan decided to secede.
A/67/PV.18
We were pleased to see that the main theme for this 
session of the General Assembly relates to the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. That principle is a fundamental 
one,  as  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  stresses  the 
need  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security  by 
pacific means or through effective collective measures 
aimed  at  eliminating  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  and 
international law.
The  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  requires  joint 
efforts  on  the  part  of  the  international  community 
in  order  to  tackle  the  root  causes  of  conflicts.  We 
believe  that  the  absence  of  sustainable  and  balanced 
development  is  one  of  the  main  reasons  why  a  small 
minority  of  people  have  been  able  to  appropriate  the 
greatest wealth in the world while the vast majority of 
humankind  lives  in  abject  poverty,  lacking  all  basic 
services.  Greater  efforts  must  therefore  be  made  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
Disseminating  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance, 
respect  for  others  and  the  prevention  of  any  violence 
or incitement to cultural, religious, sectarian or ethnic 
strife  must  be  among  the  fundamental  priorities  and 
concerns of the United Nations. The Organization must 
ensure  that  no  offensive  statements  about  prophets 
are  made  under  the  pretext  of  freedom  of  expression. 
Perhaps the latest video insulting Prophet Muhammad 
and  the  reactions  thereto  are  the  best  evidence  of  the 
seriousness of this issue and its effect on international 
peace and security.
My country suffered through a long conflict — more 
than  six  decades  —  that  hampered  the  achievement 
of  peace,  development  and  stability,  and  had  strong 
negative  repercussions  on  the  region.  Proceeding 
from the conviction of my Government as to the need 
to  put  an  end  to  that  conflict,  on  the  basis  of  United 
Nations  instruments  for  the  pacific  settlement  of 
disputes,  difficult  and  thorny  negotiations  began  that 
took  over  a  decade  and  culminated  in  the  signing  of 
the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  (CPA)  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development (IGAD). Many regional and international 
partners  helped 
that  Agreement. 
The  Government  of  the  Sudan  was  committed  to 
implementing  the  Agreement  during  the  prescribed 
reaching 
in 
the  Sudan 
The  Government  of 
immediately 
recognized  the  Government  of  South  Sudan  and  fully 
committed itself to assisting that nascent State, as was 
stated  by  the  President  of  my  country  —  Mr.  Omer 
Hassan  Al-Bashir  —  personally  when  the  new  State 
was  born  in  the  south.  Despite  all  of  the  assistance 
provided  by  my  country  to  facilitate  the  birth  of  the 
Republic of South Sudan, many obstacles have cropped 
up on the road to the normalization of relations between 
the two neighbourly countries. The delay in the drafting 
of  important  agreements  provided  for  in  the  CPA 
following  the  referendum  has  led  to  many  tensions, 
resulting  in  the  adoption  by  the  African  Union  Peace 
and Security Council of a road map in April 2012 and in 
Security Council resolution 2046 (2012), which stresses 
the spirit of the African Union decision.
We have begun a new phase of serious negotiations 
under  the  African  Union  High-level  Implementation 
Panel,  headed  by  President  Thabo  Mbeki,  which  led 
to  the  signing  on  27  September  in  Addis  Ababa  of 
very  important  agreements  on  the  economy,  security 
and  citizenship  status  in  both  States  and  a  framework 
agreement for cooperation between the two countries in 
all fields. None of that would have taken place without 
the  firm  determination,  wisdom  and  patience  of  my 
President, Omer Al-Bashir, who insisted on the need to 
resolve disputes by peaceful means, beginning with the 
signing  of  the  CPA,  the  Abuja  Agreement  on  Darfur, 
the  agreement  on  Eastern  Darfur  and  the  Darfur 
Document.  That  has  shown  the  world  that  Sudan’s 
leadership acts on the basis of firm principles that prize 
security and stability and are aimed at achieving peace 
and  development.  We  want  everyone  to  know  that  the 
goal  of  attempts  to  distort  Sudan’s  image  and  impugn 
its leadership is merely to defame us and that they are 
devoid of any substance.
We in the Sudan have been determined to address 
the reasons underlying war and strife despite the strong 
economic  and  political  pressures  brought  to  bear 
against  my  country  and  the  unfair  sanctions  imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America.  The  Sudan  requires 
assistance in order to traverse this very sensitive stage 
towards better horizons, and to that end we believe that 
the sanctions must be lifted, our debt cancelled and our 
economy supported.
12-52443
43
A/67/PV.18
The Sudan has repeatedly stressed its commitment 
to a policy of good-neighbourliness and is determined 
to strengthen its brotherly relations with South Sudan. 
The great achievements registered have brought an end 
to the longest war on the Africa continent. With the same 
determination,  we  have  attempted  to  tackle  the  few 
remaining issues. In order to ensure continuing sincere 
cooperation  with  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  on 
Thursday, 27 September 2012, an agreement was signed 
in the Ethiopian capital between the two Governments 
on  security,  the  economy,  borders,  oil,  trade,  rates 
of  exchange,  pensions,  debts  and  other  economic 
issues.  That  is  an  important  step  that  shows  Sudan’s 
commitment to a policy of good-neighbourliness and its 
determination to improve brotherly relations with South 
Sudan and to reach a comprehensive understanding on 
all issues.
Despite the fact that no agreement has been reached 
on the final status of Abyei, and no terms of reference 
have  been  found  for  its  resolution,  the  Sudan  stresses 
its  full  support  for  the  Abyei  protocol  and  agreement 
of  June  2011,  as  well  as  the  referendum  law  on  Abyei 
signed  by  both  parties  in  the  Sudanese  Parliament  in 
2010.
We  must  stress  here  the  important  role  played  by 
the two parties, with the mediation of the late Ethiopian 
Prime Minister, Mr. Meles Zenawi, and his successor, 
Mr.  Hailemariam  Desalegn,  in  the  context  of  the 
presidency  of  IGAD,  as  well  as  by  other  international 
partners. Without those efforts, no agreement could have 
been  reached  or  signed  with  South  Sudan.  We  would 
therefore like to stress the importance of mediation and 
serious  negotiations  in  resolving  disputes  by  peaceful 
means.
Allow me also to stress the role of the international 
community in fulfilling its responsibility to help both 
parties  and  to  keep  all  promises  made  following  the 
signing  of  the  CPA  by  providing  assistance  in  funds 
and  in  kind  for  the  development  and  growth  of  the 
Sudan and South Sudan.
In  his  statement,  the  Vice-President  of  South 
Sudan  asserted  that  his  country  lays  claim  to  Heglig 
and sympathizes with those bearing arms against us in 
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states (see A/67/PV.13). 
That  is  regrettable  and  goes  outside  the  spirit  of  the 
agreement of Addis Ababa, taking us back to square one 
as far as conflicts are concerned. As I have said before, 
I sincerely hope that those words of the Vice-President 
were intended to be delivered to the General Assembly 
before the agreement was reached in Addis Ababa. 
The  Government  of  the  Sudan  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  put  further  pressure  on 
the rebels to stop attacks on South Kordofan and Blue 
Nile states. Let me also say that the Government of the 
Sudan  will  continue  to  live  up  to  its  responsibilities 
with  respect  to  the  protection  of  civilians  and  the 
completion  of  development  projects.  Blue  Nile  state 
is now home to the largest development project in the 
Sudan — the building of a dam — together with many 
other development projects.
The Government has a green-land policy designed 
to  expand  agricultural  projects  in  South  Kordofan 
and  a  policy    to  improve  water  quality  and  education 
and  health  services  there.  Moreover,  proceeding  from 
our  belief  that  it  is  the  fundamental  responsibility  of 
the  Government  to  protect  its  citizens,  we  renew  our 
commitment  to  the  joint  tripartite  initiative  between 
the United Nations, the African Union and the League 
of  Arab  States  to  bring  humanitarian  assistance  to 
civilians  in  the  regions  controlled  by  rebels  in  South 
Kordofan and Blue Nile states. 
Despite the efforts made by the Sudan to tackle the 
negative  effects  following  the  secession  of  the  south, 
the  burden  of  foreign  debt  weighs  very  heavily  on 
the  Sudanese  economy.  Let  me  take  this  opportunity 
to  recall  the  pledges  of  the  international  community, 
following the signing of the CPA, to cancel the Sudan’s 
debts. Those promises have gone unmet. I am sure the 
Assembly knows that the issue of debts was among the 
fundamental  questions  that  were  discussed  with  the 
Government of South Sudan. Based on the zero-option 
approach, we are determined to work with our brothers 
in  the  Government  of  South  Sudan  to  take  the  steps 
agreed upon with the international community and our 
creditors so that we both may enjoy the fruits of peace 
and ensure the viability of the two States. 
At  the  same  time,  we  stress  the  need  to  lift  the 
coercive  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  on  the  Sudan, 
which  run  counter  to  General  Assembly  resolutions 
and  international  norms  and  laws.  At  this  point,  we 
cannot fail to mention the progress made in sustainable 
development  in  Africa  or  the  fact  that  such  progress 
has  not  risen  to  the  ambitious  level  of  the  objectives 
set  forth  in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
International cooperation and effective partnerships are 
thus required, in the form of the complete cancellation 
of  debts,  in  accordance  with  the  Debt  Initiative  for 
44 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, if we are to fulfil our 
commitments and build national capacities.
My  country  is  also  witnessing  another  important 
development — the signing of the Doha Document for 
Peace in Darfur, following the peace negotiations that 
took  place  under  the  auspices  of  the  State  of  Qatar.  I 
should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to 
Qatar  and  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani for their much-appreciated efforts on behalf of 
peace and stability in Darfur. The Doha Document has 
been  widely  accepted  and  supported  by  the  people  of 
Darfur and the regional and international communities. 
With  that  instrument,  we  have  turned  a  new  page  in 
the book on Darfur — towards stability, development, 
peace  and  the  return  of  displaced  persons  —  after 
closing the chapter on fighting. 
We call on the international community to protect 
and  secure  the  peace  by  countering  the  armed  rebel 
groups that have refused to join the peace process. We 
further call on the Security Council to put pressure on 
those movements in order to compel them to subscribe 
to  the  Doha  Document.  I  would  also  appeal  to  the 
international  community  to  effectively  participate  in 
the donors’ conference for the rebuilding of Darfur to 
be held in December in Doha. 
The  Government  of  the  Sudan  will  continue 
to  implement  its  five-point  strategy  for  Darfur’s 
development.  We  shall  give  the  utmost  priority  to  the 
return of displaced persons and refugees, in coordination 
with the regional body that was set up pursuant to the 
Doha agreement. The parties have begun to fulfil their 
duties in implementing the Doha peace agreement, and 
now the five provinces of Darfur are enjoying security, 
stability and a return to normality.
That,  in  turn,  has  led  the  Security  Council  to 
reduce  the  number  of  military  contingents  in  the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in 
Darfur, because, as expected, there has been a general 
improvement in both the security and the humanitarian 
situations. That improvement crowned with success the 
many  efforts  made  by  the  Government  of  the  Sudan, 
paved  the  way  for  launching  development  projects  in 
Darfur  and  facilitated  the  return  of  displaced  persons 
and refugees to their homes and villages to resettle and 
re-engage in production and development. 
The  current  session  is  being  held  while  the  world 
is  witnessing  many  varied  and  intertwined  changes 
and  developments.  Those  require  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  members  of  the  international 
community for the good of humankind. We must make 
sure  that  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
principal and subsidiary bodies is given the importance 
it deserves. It has now become necessary to accelerate 
the reform of the Organization so that it can undertake 
its role in a just, transparent and effective manner and 
confront the challenges that the world faces. Indeed, the 
reform will not be genuine unless the General Assembly 
can  play  its  full  role  in  a  balanced  and  transparent 
manner. 
The reform of the Security Council is a fundamental 
part of the reform of the United Nations. The Council 
no longer reflects the realities of today’s world. Unless 
its  membership  is  enlarged,  unless  working  methods 
and  procedures  are  reformed,  and  unless  its  decisions 
are  taken  in  a  more  democratic  and  transparent  way, 
reform  will  not  be  comprehensive  but  will  merely 
be  partial  or  transitional.  We  call  today  for  a  more 
balanced,  multilateral  and  just  international  system.   
What is needed is a system able to tackle the challenges 
that we face, one in which respect for international law 
prevails,  in  which  the  primary  rules  are  the  purposes 
and principles of the United Nations, including respect 
for  the  sovereignty  of  States,  non-intervention  in 
their internal affairs for any ostensible reason and the 
non-use or threat of force.
The  Sudan 
is  greatly  concerned  about  new 
concepts  and  agendas  that  are  not  internationally 
agreed,  controversial  concepts  such  as  humanitarian 
intervention,  preventive  wars,  the  responsibility  to 
protect,  political  and  economic  sanctions  and  new 
mechanisms  to  bring  pressure  to  bear  on  States, 
politicizing  international  justice.  In  this  context,  the 
Sudan  refuses  and  rejects  the  approach  taken  by  the 
so-called International Criminal Court. That body has 
gone  beyond  the  boundaries  set  for  it  at  its  founding 
Rome Conference. Regrettably, it is now a political tool 
that  criminalizes  entire  States,  while  fully  ignoring 
heinous  crimes  being  perpetrated  by  other  States  in 
the name of humanity and the fight against terrorism. 
Rejection of the request of the Palestinian Authority by 
the Court is clear evidence of injustice in the name of 
law and a good example of the politicization of justice.
The  phenomenon  of  climate  change  corroborates 
what  we  have  already  said.  The  problems  associated 
with it have grown ever greater and States cannot tackle 
them on their own. That is the case too for many other 
issues, such as energy, food security, immigration and 
12-52443
45
A/67/PV.18
terrorism. We therefore believe in the need to strengthen 
international cooperation on climate change, based on 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change and its Kyoto Protocol.
We  commend  the  State  of  Brazil  for  hosting  the 
Conference on Sustainable Development in July and for 
the effective role it played in reaching agreement on its 
final document (resolution 66/288, annex). That outcome 
reflects  the  fundamental  concerns  of  Member  States, 
stresses the promotion of international cooperation for 
sustainable development through a green economy and 
strengthens the institutional framework for sustainable 
development.  We  hope  that  the  implementation  of  the 
concept  of  the  green  economy  will  take  into  account 
the  differences  between  developed  and  developing 
countries,  so  that  all  may  implement  their  own  green 
policies, and will ensure the flow of financial, technical 
and  technological  assistance  to  developing  countries 
without discrimination.
My 
all 
forms 
condemns 
delegation 
and 
manifestations  of  terrorism,  whether  perpetrated  by 
individuals, groups or States. Terrorism is a phenomenon 
that is not linked to any one religion, culture or State. 
We  also  renew  the  call  for  an  internationally  agreed 
definition of terrorism, since terrorism is a grave threat 
to  all  our  societies.  We  must  not  confuse  the  concept 
of  terrorism  with  that  of  legitimate  struggle  against 
foreign  occupation,  invasion  or  colonialism.  We  also 
reject the stigma of terrorism currently being attached 
to  particular  cultures,  groups,  religions  or  ethnicities. 
Measures taken to fight terrorism must not infringe on 
public freedoms, human rights or a State’s sovereignty 
over its territory.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
coincides  with  some  important  indicators  in  the 
international  economy.  First  and  foremost  are  the 
consequences  of  the  world  financial  crisis  and  the 
escalation  in  the  price  of  staples,  particularly  food 
staples,  and  their  effect  on  sustainable  development. 
Despite  that,  the  Government  of  the  Sudan  is  making 
major efforts to realize economic and social development 
in  the  country,  in  the  belief  that  that  can  only  come 
about through realizing peace and security and growth. 
That  was  reflected  in  the  Sudan’s  commitment  to 
implementing  the  objectives  of  the  long-term  national 
strategy  for  2007-2013  and  our  Poverty  Reduction 
Strategy.
The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  on  the  agenda 
of  the  United  Nations  for  more  than  six  decades.  Our 
Organization  has  adopted  countless  resolutions  that 
were  rejected  or  remained  unimplemented  by  Israel. 
Israel  continues  to  defy  the  will  of  the  international 
community.  The  Sudan  expresses  its  full  support 
for  the  decision  by  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  seek 
membership  in  the  United  Nations.  It  is  their  legal 
right,  based  on  the  right  to  self-determination,  one  of 
the fundamental principles of international law. 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to  be 
a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security,  despite 
continuing declarations by the Arab side of their wish 
to reach a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the 
region, based on the relevant United Nations resolutions 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  However,  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  continues  to  reject  the  option  of 
peace. It continues its inhuman, unjust siege, which is 
in contravention of international law. It also continues 
its plans for colonialist settlement. It continues to try to 
change the demographic character of Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
by demolishing homes, uprooting trees and engaging in 
ethnic cleansing and coercive displacement, as well as 
detaining thousands of Palestinians. 
We  renew  our  call  on  the  United  Nations,  and 
the  Security  Council  in  particular,  to  shoulder  their 
responsibility  for  maintaining 
international  peace 
and security and to take the requisite measures to end 
Israeli  occupation  of  Arab  and  Palestinian  land.  From 
this  rostrum,  we  renew  our  call  for  the  establishment 
of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all 
other weapons of mass destruction. Meanwhile, we also 
underline the right of States to obtain nuclear technology 
for  peaceful  uses,  and  we  call  for  the  resolution  of 
disputes  through  negotiations  and  dialogue,  free  from 
attempts to spread fear and tension in the region.
Also with regard to the Middle East, my delegation 
expresses  its  deep  sadness  and  regret  at  the  current 
developments in Syria. There has been an escalation of 
violence and an excessive use of force. That is not the 
right way to resolve the disputes. From this rostrum, we 
call on all parties to heed the voice of reason, to enter 
into  negotiations  and  to  cease  hostilities  and  military 
confrontation.  We  believe  that  the  appointment  of  the 
new Joint Special Representative, Lakhdar Brahimi, to 
the region is a good opportunity to continue to seek a 
peaceful settlement to the dispute, and we hope that all 
parties will cooperate with him, to protect Syria and its 
social fabric.
The  Sudan  welcomes 
latest  political 
developments in Somalia, notably its recent successful 
the 
46 
12-52443
A/67/PV.18
presidential  elections.  We  congratulate 
the  new 
President,  Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  and  we  wish 
him  every  success  in  promoting  peace  and  security 
in  Somalia.  In  this  context,  the  Sudan  commends  the 
African Union for its efforts in Somalia. We call on the 
international  community  to  support  those  efforts  and 
to stand shoulder to shoulder with the fraternal Somali 
people at this critical juncture in the country’s history. 
We want Somalia to resume its natural role within the 
international community.
In  conclusion,  let  me  express  our  sincere  good 
wishes for a successful session under the wise leadership 
of President Vuk Jeremić.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Rimbink Pato, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Trade 
and Immigration of Papua New Guinea.
Mr. Pato (Papua New Guinea): Papua New Guinea 
congratulates  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his  recent  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. Our country pledges its support to him in that 
role.  I  also  commend  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the valuable work 
that he has done in the past year.
Papua  New  Guinea  recently  celebrated  its  37 
years of independence, on 16 September. Prior to that, 
despite  various  challenges,  our  country  successfully 
completed  its  general  elections  in  a  fair  and  peaceful 
manner.  Those  elections  culminated  in  the  convening 
of  our  ninth  National  Parliament  and  the  formation 
of  a  new  Government.  We  thank  our  close  friends 
and  development  partners  that  have  assisted  us  in  the 
election  process,  including  Australia,  New  Zealand, 
Japan,  South  Korea,  China,  the  United  States,  Great 
Britain,  the  European  Union,  the  United  Nations  and 
the Commonwealth.
As a young developing nation, we are proud of our 
Constitution-based and evolving democracy. While our 
people have subsisted on the island nation of Papua New 
Guinea  for  many  centuries,  our  short  modern  history 
continues to be a testament to the will of our people to 
maintain and consolidate our burgeoning democracy in 
line  with  the  rule  of  law.  In  today’s  world,  that  is  the 
basis  on  which  a  just  and  fair  society  is  built  and  on 
which societies have been built.
Papua New Guinea’s key development priorities in 
the next five years are contained in our Medium-Term 
Development  Plan  2011-2015.  That  seeks  to  achieve  a 
long-term  national  road  map  under  our  Vision  2050. 
We  need  to  strengthen  our  economy  for  it  to  be  more 
resilient  to  global  market  shocks  by  diversifying 
trade  and  investment  and  by  reviewing  development 
cooperation, ensuring that our people’s basic needs are 
met.
Papua  New  Guinea  is  also  increasing  investment 
in  our  children’s  future,  security  and  success  by  the 
provision  of  free  and  quality  education  from  the 
elementary  to  the  secondary  level  and  by  further 
subsidizing  education  from  Grade  12  to  the  tertiary 
level.  We  believe  that  that  will  help  us  to  achieve 
Millennium Development Goal 2 on universal primary 
education,  which  will  enhance  our  nation-building 
process.
We are also rehabilitating and developing our major 
infrastructure,  such  as  roads,  airports,  ports,  schools 
and hospitals, as key drivers of sustainable development 
in our country. We are increasing support for funding 
to  ensure  the  delivery  of  basic  health-care  and  social 
services  countrywide.  That  includes  the  revitalization 
of  our  institutional  and  human  resources  capacity  to 
take the country to a higher development level, which 
is our national development priority.
Our  Government  has  prioritized  combating 
corruption at all levels of society. In doing so, we have 
adopted the principle of zero tolerance. In that respect, 
our country is setting up the Independent Commission 
against  Corruption  to  enhance  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption.  We 
believe  that  such  legislation  and  policy  efforts  will 
improve  good  governance,  resulting  in  the  effective 
delivery of basic services and the provision of access to 
opportunities for participation in national development 
by all relevant stakeholders.
The economy of Papua New Guinea is growing at 
an  annual  rate  of  8  per  cent.  Our  improved  economic 
performance is underscored by political stability, sound 
macroeconomic  management  and  the  development  of 
the first large liquefied natural gas project. The revenue 
from that project is likely to increase the growth of our 
economy, doubling the revenue base by 2014. We intend 
to share that wealth with our Pacific neighbours in the 
appropriate manner. In that context, a sovereign wealth 
fund  has  been  set  up  to  professionally  manage  the 
revenue from the liquefied natural gas project and other 
extractive industries. We plan to reinvest that revenue 
for the future of our country.
12-52443
47
A/67/PV.18
social 
We  believe  that  a  strengthened  economy  will 
improve  our 
indicators,  particularly  by 
addressing our literacy levels, high maternal and infant 
mortality rates, law and order enforcement, the ageing 
public  sector  workforce  and  the  declining  state  of our 
country’s infrastructure.
Papua  New  Guinea  supports 
the  Secretary-
General’s  five-year  action  agenda  on  sustainable 
development, enhanced human security, enhancing the 
core values of the international community, supporting 
nations in transition, and working with and for women 
and young people, which was launched on 25 January. 
Papua New Guinea continues to benefit from a strong 
United  Nations  presence, 
through  which  various 
development programmes have been implemented. We 
highly value the contribution of the United Nations in 
that regard. 
We  have  also  been  implementing  the  One  United 
Nations  initiative  since  2006  as  a  self-starter  country. 
So  far,  that  is  working  exceptionally  well  for  our 
country.  We  are  also  grateful  that  the  United  Nations 
has heeded our call and has synergized its development 
assistance  framework  2012-2015  with  our  Medium-
Term Development Plan. However, we can do more. We 
urge  donor  partners  to  abide  by  the  principles  of  the 
Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness  and  the  Accra 
Agenda for Action. Through the Pacific Islands Forum, 
we have adapted the Cairns Compact in order to better 
coordinate  development  assistance  and  to  ensure  the 
effective delivery of aid.
We welcome the proactive engagement of the United 
Nations with the Pacific region and thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  visit  and  ongoing  commitment.  We 
are  encouraged  by  that  and  by  the  fact  that  contacts 
with the United Nations system and personnel will be 
strengthened in the Pacific Islands region.
The challenge for Papua New Guinea is to ensure that 
the development of our natural resources is sustainable 
and that the benefits are effectively translated into the 
improved livelihoods of our people. That, in turn, will 
assist us in meeting our Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs),  especially  the  22  indicators  and  90  national 
targets  that  we  have  set  ourselves.  We  acknowledge 
that  it  will  be  a  challenge  to  attain  all  the  MDGs  by 
2015,  but  note  there  has  been  measured  progress  in 
the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  which 
is MDG 1, and the reduction of child mortality, which 
is  MDG  4.  So  for  our  part,  our  country  is  taking  full 
ownership of the MDGs.
With the support of our development partners such 
as the European Union and the United Nations, Papua 
New  Guinea  is  conducting  a  trial  of  the  Millennium 
Village  concept  this  month.  We  recommit  ourselves 
to  working  with  our  international  partners,  including 
the  United  Nations,  and  we  reiterate  that  the  MDGs 
need  to  be  the  priority  while  we  discuss  sustainable 
development goals for the long term.
Papua  New  Guinea  continues  to  scale  up  its 
efforts  to  further  strengthen  human  rights  protection 
and  advancement  in  the  country.  We  are  working 
closely  with  United  Nations  agencies  and  our  other 
development  partners  in  the  furtherance  of  these 
objectives.  To  date,  we  have  reported  to  the  Human 
Rights Council on work done relating to the Convention 
on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination 
against Women in July 2010. We have also reported to 
the Human Rights Council under the universal periodic 
review  process.  Additionally,  the  2012  report  of  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  violence  against  women,  its 
causes and consequences (A/HRC/20/16) and the 2010 
report  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  torture  and  other 
cruel,  inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment 
are being considered by our Government this year.
is  committed 
Papua  New  Guinea 
to  gender 
empowerment and equality. We recognize women and 
girls  as  not  only  key  national  development  partners 
but  also  persons  whose  inherent  human  dignity  must 
be  respected  and  safeguarded.  This  is  a  central  pillar 
of  our  Constitution  and  a  core  value  of  our  national 
development  road  map.  A  testament  to  the  success  of 
this measure is that more girls are enrolling in primary 
and upper levels of education with an increasingly high 
retention rate. Women are also increasingly employed, 
recognized  and  given  greater  responsibilities 
in 
our  public  and  private  sectors.  In  fact,  we  achieved 
a  historical  milestone  this  year,  and  one  which  is 
unprecedented  in  our  political  history,  in  that,  for  the 
first  time,  three  women  were  elected  to  the  national 
parliament.  This  positive  trend  is  increasing  in  our 
country at all levels.
We  also  recognize  the  critical  importance  of 
protecting  our  women  and  girls  from  violence  and 
discrimination.  Papua  New  Guinea 
taking  a 
proactive  approach 
through  education,  advocacy 
and  legislation  to  prevent  gender-based  violence.  We 
is 
48 
12-52443
have  made  violence  against  women  and  girls  a  crime 
punishable  by  law.  Partnership  with  all  stakeholders, 
including  our  development  partners  and  civil  society, 
forms  an  important  part  of  the  gender  empowerment 
and equality issues in our country. In this context, we 
commend the funding, substantially from the Australian 
Government, that was announced at the margins of the 
Pacific Islands Forum in Rarotonga in August 2012, as 
well as that from other development partners, including 
New Zealand, the United Nations and the United States 
of America.
Having acceded to the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities, Papua New Guinea is now in 
the process of ratifying the Convention. Our country is 
working with our Pacific Islands Forum member States 
to host the Pacific Islands Forum Disability Ministers 
Meeting on 3 and 4 October 2012 in Port Moresby.
We  are  also  working  towards  setting  up  an 
independent national human rights commission and, at 
the  same  time,  we  are  in  the  process  of  withdrawing 
the seven reservations on the 1951 Convention relating 
to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol. In this 
context,  we  are  partnering  with  Australia  to  address 
human trafficking and human smuggling issues in our 
region.
The  theme  that  was  chosen  for  the  High-level 
Meeting  during  this  session,  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
national  and 
timely  and 
commendable. Papua New Guinea fully subscribes, as I 
have said, to the principles of the rule of law.
international 
levels, 
is 
Papua  New  Guinea  also  fully  subscribes 
to 
disarmament and non-proliferation to secure a peaceful 
world.  We  urge  nuclear  nations  to  denuclearize  and 
those  thinking  of  going  nuclear  to  refrain  from  doing 
so. The Pacific region remains a nuclear-free zone, and 
we urge other Member States that have yet to sign and 
A/67/PV.18
ratify  the  Rarotonga  Treaty,  which  prohibits  nuclear 
weapons in the region, to do so.
We 
remain  concerned  about 
the  continued 
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  In 
this  context,  we  call  for  the  recent  impasse  on  the 
negotiations on a global arms trade treaty to be ended 
as soon as possible.
Papua  New  Guinea  supports  the  Group  of  Seven 
Plus  forum  for  its  efforts  to  strengthen  peacebuilding 
and State-building in fragile and post-conflict countries 
and commend Timor-Leste for their leadership. As part 
of  our  national  commitment  to  fostering  global  peace 
and  security,  Papua  New  Guinea  has  commenced  its 
contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping force 
and is looking to expand that contribution.
We  remain  committed  to  the  United  Nations 
sustainable development agenda, especially on climate 
change,  with  respect  to  mitigation  and  adaptation. 
We  are  committed  to  working  closely  with  the  global 
community  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  subscribe  to  the 
Rio+20  outcome  declaration,  “The  future  we  want” 
(resolution 66/288, annex).
Papua  New  Guinea  recognizes  the  pivotal  role 
of  the  Global  Green  Growth  Institute  (GGGI)  for 
sustainable  development.  As  a  founding  member  of 
GGGI,  Papua  New  Guinea  pledges  to  work  together 
with other stakeholders to ensure the desired outcomes 
through the Institute. In this context, we pay tribute to 
the work that has been done by the Republic of Korea.
In  conclusion,  we  support  the  call  made  by  the 
Secretary-General for the reform of the United Nations 
system. We also again call for the reform of the Security 
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories  of  members,  in  order  for  it  to  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of today.
The meeting rose at 2.30 p.m.
12-52443
49
