United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
27th plenary meeting
Thursday, 18 October 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.27
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m. 
Agenda item 109
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the 
Security Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members 
of the Security Council to replace those members whose 
term of office expires on 31 December 2012. 
The five outgoing non-permanent members are the 
following:  Colombia,  Germany,  India,  Portugal  and 
South  Africa.  Those  five  States  cannot  be  re-elected. 
Their names, therefore, should not appear on the ballot 
papers.
Apart  from  the  five  permanent  members,  the 
Security  Council  will  include  in  the  year  2013  the 
following  States:  Azerbaijan,  Guatemala,  Pakistan, 
Morocco and Togo. The names of those States, therefore, 
should also not appear on the ballot papers.
Of  the  five  non-permanent  members  that  will 
remain in office in the year 2013, three are from Africa 
and Asia-Pacific, one is from Eastern Europe and one is 
from Latin America and the Caribbean. Consequently, 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assembly resolution 
1991  A  (XVIII),  of  17  December  1963,  the  five 
non-permanent  members  should  be  elected  according 
to  the  following  pattern:  two  from  Africa  and  Asia-
Pacific,  one  from  Latin  American  and  the  Caribbean, 
and  two  from  Western  Europe  and  other  States.  The 
ballot papers ref lect that pattern.
In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is 
an understanding to the effect that, of the two States to 
be elected from Africa and Asia-Pacific, one should be 
from Africa and one from Asia-Pacific.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  those 
candidates — their number not exceeding the number 
of  seats  to  be  filled  —  receiving  the  greatest  number 
of  votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those  present 
and  voting  will  be  declared  elected.  If  the  number 
of  candidates  obtaining  a  two-thirds  majority  is  less 
than the number of members to be elected, there shall 
be  additional  ballots  to  fill  the  remaining  places,  the 
voting being restricted to the candidates obtaining the 
greatest  number  of  votes  in  the  previous  ballot  to  a 
number not more than twice the seats remaining to be 
filled.
Also,  consistent  with  past  practice,  in  case  a 
tie  vote  should  make  it  necessary  to  determine  the 
candidate to be elected or that will proceed to the next 
round  of  restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special 
restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates  that  have 
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the 
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret 
ballot and there shall be no nominations.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-55501 (E)
*1255501*
A/67/PV.27
Regarding  candidatures,  I  have  been  informed  by 
the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective  regional  groups  of 
the  following.  For  the  two  vacant  seats  from  among 
the  African  and  Asia-Pacific  States,  four  candidates 
have been designated, namely, Bhutan, Cambodia, the 
Republic of Korea and Rwanda. For the one vacant seat 
from among the Latin American and Caribbean States, 
there  is  one  endorsed  candidate,  namely,  Argentina. 
For  the  two  vacant  seats  fromm  among  the  Western 
European and other States, there are three candidates, 
namely, Australia, Finland and Luxembourg. 
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
we shall now proceed to the election by secret ballot.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo on a point of order.
Mrs.  Malenga  (Democratic  Republic  of 
the 
Congo) (spoke in French): My delegation is speaking on 
a point of order to recall that the Charter of the United 
Nations  confers  on  the  Security  Council  the  principal 
responsibility  for  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. In that regard, the States that are to have seats 
in  the  Council  should  be  peace-  and  justice-loving 
countries.
Beyond  its  destabilizing  role  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Rwanda  today  is  a  haven  of 
tranquillity  for  all  war  criminals  operating  in  the 
eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
and who are wanted by the international justice system. 
As such, my delegation objects to Rwanda being elected 
to the Security Council as a non-permanent member. 
The  President:  I  take  note  of  that  statement, 
and  I  would  like  to  remind  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo that, pursuant to rule 
88 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, 
no representative shall interrupt the voting except on a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. 
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now be 
distributed. I request representatives to use only those 
ballot papers that have been distributed.
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot 
papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asia-Pacific 
States, the names of the two States for which they wish 
to vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for the Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  name  of  the  one 
State  for  which  they  wish  to  vote;  and  on  the  ballot 
papers  marked  “C”,  for  the  Western  European  and  
other States, the name of the two States for which they 
wish to vote.
A ballot will be declared invalid if it contains more 
names of Member States from the relevant region than 
the number of seats assigned to it. A ballot will also be 
declared invalid if all the names of the Member States 
on  that  ballot  do  not  belong  to  the  relevant  region.  If 
a  ballot  paper  of  a  region  includes  both  the  names  of 
Member States that belong to and that do not belong to 
that region, the ballot remains valid, but only the names 
of the Member States that belong to the relevant region 
will  be  counted.  The  names  of  Member  States  that  do 
not belong to that region will not be counted.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cabezas 
(Chile),  Ms.  Shiolashvili  (Georgia),  Mr.  Volkwein 
(Germany), Mrs. Djan (Ghana), Mr. Tadome (Japan) 
and Ms. Lindqvist (Sweden) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.45  a.m.  and 
resumed at 12.10 p.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Group A — African and Asian-Paciﬁ c States
Number of ballot papers:                                        193
Number of invalid ballots:                                          0
Number of valid ballots:                                         192
Abstentions:                                                                1
Number of members voting:                                   192
Required two-thirds majority:                                128
Number of votes obtained:
Rwanda                                                       148
Republic of Korea                                       116
Cambodia                                                      62
Bhutan                                                           20
United Republic of Tanzania                            3
Democratic Republic of the Congo                     1
Group B — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:                                         193
Number of invalid ballots:                                          1
Number of valid ballots:                                         192
Abstentions:                                                                 8
Number of members voting:                                   184
Required two-thirds majority:                                    123
2 
12-55501
A/67/PV.27
Number of votes obtained:
We shall now begin the voting process.
Argentina                                                    182
Barbados                                                           1
Cuba                                                                1
Group C — Western European and Other States
Number of ballot papers:                                          193
Number of invalid ballots:                                             0
Number of valid ballots:                                             193
Abstentions:                                                                 0
Number of members voting:                                      193
Required two-thirds majority:                                    129
Number of votes obtained:
Australia                                                     140
Luxembourg                                                  128
Finland                                                           108
Having  obtained  the  required  two-thirds  majority 
and the largest number of votes, the following States 
were  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council  for 
a  two-year  term  beginning  on  1  January  2013: 
Argentina, Australia and Rwanda.
The President: There remain two seats to be filled, 
one  from  among  the  African  and  Asian-Pacific  States 
and  one  from  among  the  Western  European  and  other 
States.  In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there 
is an understanding to the effect that, of the two seats 
allocated  to  the  African  and  Asian-Pacific  States,  one 
should be filled by an African State and one by an Asia-
Pacific State. As Rwanda has already been elected, the 
remaining  seat  from  among  the  African  and  Asian-
Pacific  States  should  be  filled  by  an  Asian-Pacific 
State. We shall therefore proceed to the first restricted 
ballot.
The  second  round  of  balloting  shall  be  restricted  
to those two States from among the African and Asian-
Pacific  States  that  were  not  elected  but  obtained  the 
largest number of votes in the previous ballot, namely, 
Cambodia  and  the  Republic  of  Korea,  and  those  two 
States  from  among  the  Western  European  and  other 
States  that  were  not  elected  but  obtained  the  largest 
number of votes in the previous ballot, namely, Finland 
and Luxembourg. This is in accordance with rule 94 of 
the rules of procedure.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no  representative 
shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order on 
the actual conduct of the voting.
Ballot  papers  marked  “A”  and  “B”  will  now  be 
distributed.  May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the 
ballot  papers  the  names  of  the  States  for  which  they 
wish to vote. Ballot papers marked “A” for the African 
and Asia-Pacific States will be declared invalid if they 
contain the name of a State other than Cambodia or the 
Republic of Korea, as well as if they contain the name 
of  more  than  one  State.  Ballot  papers  marked  “B”  for 
the Western European and other States will be declared 
invalid  if  they  contain  the  name  of  a  State  other  than 
Finland  or  Luxembourg,  as  well  as  if  they  contain  the 
name of more than one State.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cabezas 
(Chile),  Ms.  Shiolashvili  (Georgia),  Mr.  Volkwein 
(Germany), Mrs. Djan (Ghana), Mr. Tadome (Japan) 
and Ms. Lindqvist (Sweden) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  12.25  a.m.  and 
resumed at 1.05 p.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Group A — African and Asian-Paciﬁ c States
Number of ballot papers:                                        193
Number of invalid ballots:                                          1
Number of valid ballots:                                          192
Abstentions:                                                                     0
Number of members voting:                                       192
Required two-thirds majority:                                   128
Number of votes obtained:
Republic of Korea                                          149
Cambodia                                                          43
Group C — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:                                             193
Number of invalid ballots:                                              0
Number of valid ballots:                                            193
Abstentions:                                                                      0
Number of members voting:                                        193
Required two-thirds majority:                                     129
Number of votes obtained:
Luxembourg                                                  131
Finland                                                             62
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
Luxembourg  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  were 
elected members of the Security Council for a two-
year term beginning 1 January 2013.
12-55501
3
A/67/PV.27
The President: The following five States have thus 
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council  for  a 
mandate  of  two  years,  beginning  on  1  January  2013: 
Argentina,  Australia,  Luxembourg,  the  Republic  of 
Korea and Rwanda.
I  congratulate  the  States  that  have  been  elected 
members of the Security Council, and I thank the tellers 
for their assistance in this election.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 109.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
4 
12-55501
