United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
46th plenary meeting
Friday, 30 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.46
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.55 a.m.
Agenda item 37 (continued)
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/67/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/364)
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.17, A/67/L.18, 
A/67/L.19 and A/67/L.20) 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative  of  Senegal,  Mr.  Abdou  Salam  Diallo, 
in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, 
introduce  draft  resolutions  A/67/L.17, 
A/67/L.18, A/67/L.19 and A/67/L.20.
to 
Mr. Diallo (Senegal), Chairman of the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People  (spoke 
in  French):  Yesterday, 
29  November,  we  celebrated  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  As  President 
Mahmoud Abbas recalled, that date was no accident. It 
has strong historical resonance. It was on 29 November 
1947  that  33  Member  States,  meeting  in  the  Borough 
of  Queens  in  what  had  been  a  World’s  Fair  pavilion, 
decided  to  partition  Palestine.  Of  the  two  States  they 
envisaged,  one  was  created  and  became  a  Member  of 
the United Nations. Yesterday, at its 44th meeting, the 
General Assembly decided to perfect its undertaking by 
recognizing the other entity as a State. 
Thanks 
to 
the  overwhelming  support  of 
the 
international community, the journey of the Palestinian 
people to freedom and to the building of an independent 
State  took  a  new  turn.  Although  the  path  has  been 
difficult  and  the  sacrifices  many,  the  efforts  have  not 
been in vain. That overwhelming vote is proof that the 
perseverance  of  the  Palestinians  in  working  towards  a 
negotiated settlement is the best guarantee for peace in 
the region of the Middle East. It is therefore with pride 
that  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People sees the delegation of 
Palestine take its rightful seat in the General Assembly 
with the status of a non-member observer State. 
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Palestinian 
people and their leaders, especially President Mahmoud 
Abbas,  for  the  courage  and  patience  they  have  shown. 
To  the  Palestinian  people,  who  pursued  their  dream 
despite hardships and other privations, I wish harmony 
and prosperity. But more than anything, I wish them a 
new perspective for peace with Israel and all the peoples 
of the region. 
On  behalf  of  the  Committee,  I  would  also  like  to 
thank all members who voted for resolution 67/19. It is 
an important victory for all the forces of peace and can 
contribute  to  political  modernization  in  the  region  for 
the benefit of all of its peoples.
I  would  now  like  to  introduce  to  the  Assembly 
the  four  draft  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Committee 
and  circulated  under  this  agenda  item,  namely,  draft 
resolutions  A/67/L.17,  A/67/L.18,  A/67/L.19  and 
A/67/L.20.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-62137 (E)
*1262137*
A/67/PV.46
The  first  three  draft  resolutions  concern  the  work 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the  Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat  and  the  special 
information programme on the question of Palestine of 
the  Department  of  Public  Information.  They  reaffirm 
the  important  mandates  entrusted  to  those  entities  by 
the  General  Assembly.  As  in  the  past,  the  Committee 
will  ensure  the  rational  use  of  the  resources  made 
available  to  it.  Naturally,  the  three  draft  resolutions 
have been updated.
The  fourth  draft  resolution,  A/67/L.20,  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”, 
reiterates  the  position  of  the  General  Assembly  with 
regard  to  the  essential  elements  of  such  a  settlement 
and includes references to the developments of the past 
year.
The four draft resolutions that I have just introduced 
outline positions, mandates and programmes that are of 
particular  importance  at  the  present  crucial  juncture. 
While  the  draft  resolutions  on  a  peaceful  settlement 
and  the  special  information  programme  traditionally 
enjoy overwhelming support from members, the voting 
on the draft resolutions concerning the Committee and 
the  Division,  in  which  a  sizeable  group  of  members 
abstains, could be improved.
Advocating for the coexistence of two States means 
supporting the only body set up by the General Assembly 
with that goal, namely, the Committee on the Exercise 
of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People. 
The  Committee  recalls  that  the  United  Nations  has  a 
permanent  responsibility  with  regard  to  the  question 
of  Palestine  until  it  is  resolved  in  all  its  aspects  in  a 
satisfactory  manner,  in  accordance  with  international 
legitimacy.  In  pursuing  our  common  objectives,  the 
Committee  counts  on  the  cooperation  of  all  members. 
Consequently,  I  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
vote  in  favour  of  these  four  draft  resolutions  with  a 
majority that speaks of the correctness of the goals they 
are pursuing.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative  of  Malta,  Mr.  Christopher  Grima,  in 
his  capacity  as  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, to introduce the report of the Committee.
Mr. Grima (Malta), Rapporteur of the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People:  Allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  join 
previous  speakers  in  congratulating  the  delegation  of 
Palestine on having been granted non-member observer 
State status in the General Assembly.
It is an honour for me, in my capacity as Rapporteur 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  to  introduce  to  the 
General Assembly the annual report of the Committee, 
which is contained in document A/67/35. Allow me to 
summarize each section of the report.
After  the  introduction,  the  report  outlines,  in 
chapters  II  and  III,  the  mandate  entrusted  to  the 
Committee  by  the  General  Assembly  and  contains 
information  on  the  organization  of  the  Committee’s 
work during the year.
In  chapter  IV,  the  report  reviews  the  situation 
relating to the question of Palestine as monitored by the 
Committee  and  contains  a  detailed  factual  account  of 
developments that have taken place in the period under 
review,  which  ended  on  7  October.  The  most  recent 
events will be ref lected in the next report.
Chapter  V  contains  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee,  including  the  Chairman’s  participation 
in  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  debates, 
statements issued by the Committee and its Bureau and 
the  continued  dialogue  between  the  Committee  and 
members  of  intergovernmental  organizations.  Chapter 
V  also  reports  on  the  various  international  meetings 
and  conferences  organized  by  the  Committee,  as  well 
as other mandated activities carried out by the Division 
for Palestinian Rights.
Chapter VI provides an overview of the work done 
over the year by the Department of Public Information 
pursuant to resolution 66/16, of 30 November 2011.
the 
two-State  solution  appears 
The  last  chapter  contains  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations  of  the  Committee,  in  which  the 
Committee  expresses  its  concern  that  the  momentum 
towards 
to  have 
dissipated  due  to  Israel’s  continued  expansion  of  its 
illegal settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  its  refusal  to  commit 
to  the  long-standing  parameters  of  the  peace  process. 
The Committee expresses its view that progress on the 
Palestinian status at the United Nations will generate a 
new  dynamic  in  the  peace  process  and  help  safeguard 
the  two-State  solution,  as  will  the  recognition  of  the 
State of Palestine by additional Member States.
2 
12-62137
the 
The  Committee  calls  on 
international 
community to take serious and concrete action that will 
compel  Israel  to  stop  its  illegal  settlement  activities 
and to genuinely commit to ending its 45-year military 
occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territory  and  to  making 
peace.  The  Committee  also  calls  on  members  of  the 
Security  Council  to  undertake  a  mission  to  the  region 
to examine the situation at first hand and to contribute 
tangibly to the efforts to advance a comprehensive, just 
and  lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict 
and the Arab-Israeli conf lict as a whole.
In  addition,  the  Committee  calls  on  donors  to 
meet  their  prior  commitments  and  provide  emergency 
aid  to  the  Palestinian  people.  The  Committee  calls  on 
all  Palestinian  factions  to  unite  behind  the  leadership 
of  President  Mahmoud  Abbas 
for  a  good-faith 
implementation  of  national  reconciliation  agreements, 
which is a prerequisite for the establishment of a viable 
Palestinian State.
The  Committee  expresses  its  deep  concern  about 
the  ongoing  violence  and  the  gross  violations  of 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law  and  reiterates  its 
condemnation of all attacks against civilians, including 
rocket  fire  from  Gaza,  air  strikes  on  populated  areas 
and  settler  violence.  It  calls  on  the  Security  Council 
and the High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva 
Convention to act urgently to guarantee the protection 
of civilians.
the  Israeli  occupation  and 
The  Committee  reiterates  that  any  sustainable 
recovery  of  the  Palestinian  economy  requires  the 
dismantlement  of 
its 
associated  regime  of  settlements,  checkpoints,  the 
separation  wall,  demolitions,  land  confiscations  and 
expulsions.  Those  have  been  on  the  rise,  with  the 
worst abuses occurring in East Jerusalem and in Area 
C.  In  that  regard,  the  Committee  calls  for  the  transfer 
of  additional  territories  in  Area  C  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  as  envisaged  in  the  Oslo 
Accords.
The  Committee  will  focus  its  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  in  2013  on 
widening  international  support  for  the  achievement  of 
the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to self-
determination, national independence and sovereignty, 
and to return to their homes and property. It will also seek 
to  strengthen  international  support  for  the  permanent 
status  negotiations  and  contribute  to  the  creation  of  a 
favourable  international  atmosphere  for  their  conduct 
A/67/PV.46
in  good  faith.  The  Committee  also  supports  global 
campaigns  to  challenge  Israeli  impunity  and  promote 
the  concept  of  Israeli  accountability  for  its  actions 
towards the Palestinian people.
The  Committee  will  continue  to  highlight  the 
plight  of  the  most  disadvantaged  Palestinians,  such  as 
the Palestine refugees, Palestinians living in Gaza and 
Palestinian political prisoners, and to mobilize support 
for Palestinian institution-building and all other efforts 
to  facilitate  the  viability  of  the  Palestinian  State.  The 
Committee will pay particular attention to the inclusion 
and  empowerment  of  women  and  youth  and  their 
organizations in that process.
The  Committee  will  continue 
to  encourage 
civil  society  partners  to  work  with  their  national 
Governments,  parliaments  and  other  institutions  with 
a  view  to  gaining  their  full  support  for  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations,  including  that  of  the  Committee, 
on  the  question  of  Palestine.  It  will  continue  to  assess 
its  programme  of  cooperation  with  civil  society  and 
consult  them  on  ways  to  enhance  their  contribution. 
The  Committee  will  also  strive  to  further  develop 
cooperation  with  parliamentarians  and  their  umbrella 
organizations.
The Committee requests the Division for Palestinian 
Rights  to  continue  its  substantive  and  secretariat 
support,  the  programme  of  research,  monitoring  and 
publications and other informational activities. It should 
pay  special  attention  to  the  continued  development  of 
the “Question of Palestine” website and the use of web-
based  social  information  networks,  such  as  Facebook 
and Twitter. The Committee also requests the Division 
to  further  develop  the  annual  training  programme  for 
staff  of  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  to  continue  to 
organize  the  annual  observance  of  the  International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People.
Finally,  the  Committee  expresses  its  view  that 
the  special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine of the Department of Public Information has 
made an important contribution to informing the media 
and public opinion of the relevant issues, and requests 
the continuation of the programme, with the necessary 
f lexibility,  as  warranted  by  developments  relevant  to 
the question of Palestine.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope 
that  the  report  that  I  have  just  introduced  will  be  of 
assistance to the General Assembly in its deliberations 
on the question of Palestine.
12-62137
3
A/67/PV.46
Mrs.  Perceval  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina is proud to have been one of the 70 sponsors 
of  resolution  67/19,  which  was  adopted  with  a  view  to 
recognizing Palestine as a non-member observer State 
in  the  United  Nations,  because  it  represents  a  historic 
step  by  the  international  community  with  respect 
to  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  Palestinian  State, 
recognized  as  such  by  132  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  including  the  Argentine  Republic.  However, 
that  resolution  is  only  one  additional  step  towards  the 
long overdue decision that the Organization has yet to 
take, namely, Palestine’s admission as a Member State 
of the United Nations.
The requirements for the admission of new Members 
are  clearly  established  in  paragraph  2  of  Article  4  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  represents 
the  consensus  of  the  international  community  and 
enshrines the principle of the sovereign equality of all 
States — a necessary condition to promote, protect and 
ensure  international  peace  and  security,  the  full  force 
of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of 
law and true democracy.
On  23  September  2011,  the  President  of  the 
Palestinian Authority, Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, presented 
to the United Nations Palestine’s request for admission 
as  a  full  Member  and  signed  a  declaration  by  which 
he accepted the relevant obligations under the Charter 
(see  A/66/PV.19).  But,  although  in  November  of  the 
same  year  UNESCO  approved  Palestine’s  admission 
as  a  member,  the  General  Assembly  was  still  not 
able  to  take  the  decision  to  admit  Palestine  into  the 
Organization, because considerations not related to the 
requirements established in the Charter meant that the 
Security  Council  provided  no  recommendation  to  the 
General Assembly.
Based  on  its  firm  belief  in  the  sovereign  equality 
of  States,  Argentina,  from  the  inception  of  the 
Organization,  has  been  clear  in  its  support  for  the 
universality of the United Nations, so as to include all 
States that meet the requirements set out in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  —  the  binding  instrument 
representing  the  covenant  of  peaceful  coexistence  of 
the international community.
Likewise,  it  is  worth  recalling  that  Argentina 
advocated  since  the  founding  of  the  Organization  that 
the  right  of  veto  of  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  could  not  be  exercised  with  respect 
to  the  admission  of  new  Members.  It  should  also  be 
recalled  that  even  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
in  an  advisory  opinion  supported  by  Argentina, 
determined  that  the  conditions  for  the  admission  of  a 
Member were exhaustive and that.
“[t]he political character of an organ cannot release 
it  from  the  observance  of  the  treaty  provisions 
established  by  the  Charter  when  they  constitute 
limitations  on 
its 
judgment”.
its  powers  or  criteria  for 
The  Organization  cannot  ignore  Palestine’s  statehood 
status in the context of the exercise of the right to self-
determination of the Palestinian people.
Argentina was not alone in supporting the resolution 
adopted.  The  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
Southern Common Market expressed their support for 
the  application  of  the  State  of  Palestine  to  acquire  the 
status granted to it yesterday by the General Assembly.
Finally, the international community has definitely 
become  aware  of  the  value  of  that  which  should  be 
considered the first right of peoples, namely, the right 
to  peace.  The  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples  have 
the  right  to  live  in  peace.  My  country,  Argentina, 
and  the  Assembly,  which  is  the  multilateral  arena  par 
excellence, clearly support that right. Therefore, as the 
President  of  Argentina,  Mrs.  Cristina  Fernández,  has 
said:
“Today  we  reiterate  our  conviction  of  the  need 
to  continue  the  negotiation  process  in  order  to 
achieve a peaceful, just, lasting and comprehensive 
settlement  of 
that 
contemplates an independent and viable Palestinian 
State.”
the  Middle  East  conf lict 
No people chooses war. All peoples wish to live in 
peace.
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  First  of  all,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
associate  itself  with  the  statement  made  at  the  45th 
meeting  by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
My  delegation  considers  the  convening  of  today’s 
plenary meeting on agenda item 37, entitled “Question 
of Palestine”, to be very timely, as it coincides with the 
commemoration of the International Day of Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People.  The  establishment  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  30  years  ago,  was  an  important  occasion  that 
4 
12-62137
ref lected the aspiration of the international community 
to an early solution of the Palestinian question.
the 
international  community 
On this important occasion of the International Day 
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, my delegation 
joins 
in  extending 
its  unwavering  support  to,  and  solidarity  with,  the 
Palestinian people’s just cause of regaining its territory 
and  establishing  an  independent  State.  My  delegation 
was a sponsor of the resolution and yesterday it aligned 
with the majority of Member States in voting in favour 
of resolution 67/19, on Palestine’s status. We once again 
welcome and congratulate Palestine on having received 
an  absolute  majority  in  recognition  of  its  statehood  at 
the United Nations.
illegal  occupation  of 
Unfortunately,  it  is  very  regrettable  that  the 
Palestinian  issue  has  not  yet  been  resolved,  despite 
the unreserved support and efforts of the international 
community.  Israel  continues  its  aggressive  policy 
of 
territories, 
expanding  settlements,  blockading  the  Gaza  Strip  and 
indiscriminately  killing  civilians,  thereby  challenging 
the  international  community.  Furthermore,  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  recently  escalated  military  attacks 
against the Palestinian people, particularly in the Gaza 
Strip, killing many innocent civilians, including women 
and children.
the  Arab 
Nevertheless,  the  Security  Council,  whose  main 
responsibility  is  to  protect  international  peace  and 
security, has turned its face away from Israeli atrocities 
without  taking  any  appropriate  measures.  That  is  a 
typical expression of the United States double standard, 
whereby it takes sides with Israel, seriously damaging 
the  Council’s  credibility.  We  strongly  denounce  the 
unpardonable Israeli criminal acts of wantonly violating 
the  sovereignty  of  Palestine  and  seriously  disturbing 
peace and security in the Middle East.
Establishing  the  independent  State  of  Palestine  is 
an inalienable sovereign right of the Palestinian people. 
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea recognized 
Palestine  as  an  independent  sovereign  State  in  1988 
and established full diplomatic relations with it. Since 
then, it has extended unreserved support and solidarity 
to  the  Palestinian  people’s  struggle  to  establish  their 
independent  State.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  will  continue  its  unwavering  support  for  the 
Palestinian  and  Arab  people  and  will  stand  firm  with 
them in their just cause.
A/67/PV.46
right 
legitimate  national 
If  the  Palestinian  issue  is  to  be  settled  and 
lasting  peace  is  to  be  maintained  in  the  Middle 
East,  the  aggressive  and  hostile  Israeli  acts  against 
the  Palestinian  people  must  be  terminated  and  the 
Palestinian  people’s 
to 
establish  an  independent  State  must  be  realized.  The 
legitimate status of Palestine as a State Member of the 
United Nations should be granted as early as possible, 
in  conformity  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  principles  of  peace  and  security.  It  is  also  the 
view of my delegation that the Security Council should 
give  due  attention  to  Palestinian  membership,  which 
is  now  on  the  international  agenda,  so  that  it  may  be 
realized  without  further  delay,  since  more  than  two 
thirds  of  the  Member  States  have  already  officially 
recognized Palestine as a State.
My  delegation  avails  itself  of  this  opportunity 
to  reaffirm  its  unvarying  support  for  and  solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  just  cause  of 
regaining their legitimate national rights, including the 
establishment  of  an  independent  State  with  Jerusalem 
as its capital.
Mrs.  Mørch  Smith  (Norway):  Yesterday,  an 
overwhelming majority of the Member States voted in 
favour of upgrading Palestine to non-member observer 
State in the General Assembly. That is a milestone, and 
truly  historic.  It  is  a  tribute  to  those  who  have  chosen 
the  path  of  resolving  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict 
through  peaceful  and  diplomatic  means.  It  is  also  a 
tribute  to  the  Partition  Plan,  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly 65 years ago, and to the two-State solution.
Resolution  67/19,  adopted  yesterday,  was  not  a 
unilateral step by the Palestinians. The resolution was 
carefully  balanced  and  sends  a  clear  message  that  the 
Palestine Liberation Organization and President Abbas 
are  genuinely  committed  to  resuming  negotiations  on 
the  basis  of  the  two-State  solution.  Time  is  more  than 
ripe  for  all  Palestinians  to  embrace  that  nonviolent 
approach. A unified Palestine will stand stronger, and 
President Abbas’ clear reaffirmation that Palestine will 
adhere  strictly  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  respect  fundamental  human  rights  principles  is 
welcomed.
Yesterday’s  decision  also  underscores  that  the 
international  community  recognizes  that  Palestinian 
institutions have passed the threshold for a functioning 
State.  Norway  is  committed  to  continued  efforts  to 
empower Palestinian institutions. However, the current 
12-62137
5
A/67/PV.46
crisis  in  the  Palestinian  economy  is  of  great  concern. 
The financial imbalance in the Palestinian economy is 
in danger of becoming chronic and will be increasingly 
difficult to resolve if no adequate measures are taken.
It  is  in  the  interest  of  us  all  to  secure  a  viable 
economy in Palestine. The task of international donors 
will not be completed until the Palestinian economy can 
prosper  and  fiscal  independence  can  be  ensured.  An 
economic collapse will endanger institutional progress 
and  severely  exacerbate  the  welfare  of  the  Palestinian 
people.  That  could  strengthen  political  forces  that 
are  not  committed  to  a  peaceful  settlement  and  reject 
negotiations as the way forward.
The  occupation 
severely  hampers  economic 
development.  A  self-sustaining  Palestinian  economy 
cannot  be  achieved  as  long  as  the  occupation  remains 
in  place  and  illegal  settlements  continue  to  expand, 
encircling  East  Jerusalem  and  undermining  the  very 
concept of a two-State solution.
Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
The  ceasefire  in  Gaza  is  fragile  and  deserves  our 
full support in order to make it durable. Decisions to lift 
restrictions on goods, construction items and personnel 
should be taken without further delay and in accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009).  Such 
initiatives  would  make  the  ceasefire  more  robust  and 
help  us  move  forward  towards  normalization  in  the 
Gaza  Strip.  That  will  also  have  a  strengthening  effect 
on  moderate  political  forces  and  will  weaken  those 
who  choose  violence.  Egypt’s  key  role  in  achieving  a 
ceasefire agreement is very encouraging.
While  we  may  have  times  of  quiet,  times  where 
hostilities  are  absent,  we  will  not  achieve 
true 
peace  unless  the  parties,  through  negotiations  and 
compromises,  reach  a  political  settlement.  Yesterday’s 
result is encouraging. It should be interpreted as a call 
for  action  and  not  as  an  excuse  to  yet  again  postpone 
negotiations.  Clear  parameters  defining  the  basis  for 
negotiations are key elements for a successful outcome. 
It is also imperative that unilateral acts on the ground, 
which  undermine  confidence  and  take  the  parties 
further from negotiations, be avoided. President Abbas, 
in his speech at the 44th meeting yesterday, underscored 
that  he  will  act  responsibly  and  positively  in  the  next 
steps. That should be respected.
Regardless  of  how  we  cast  our  vote  yesterday, 
we  all  need  to  come  together  and  bring  forward  the 
efforts 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict 
through  negotiations.  Those  negotiations  should  start 
immediately.
to  resolve 
Mr. Faizal (Maldives): On this historic occasion in 
1947, the General Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II), 
on  the  partition  of  Palestine,  thus  creating  one  of  the 
most  complex  and  elusive  challenges  that  the  modern 
world has faced so far. Yet again, we find ourselves in 
this very Hall, lamenting the lack of progress in a now 
moribund  peace  process  and  decrying  the  deficiency 
of  international  political  will  to  help  realize  what  was 
conceived all those years ago — a story of two States, 
a world where both Palestine and Israel could coexist, 
within secure and recognized borders.
As  we  mark  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the 
solidarity of my Government and that of all Maldivians 
with  the  Palestinian  people’s  inalienable  right  to  self-
determination.  Even  in  this  difficult  hour,  as  smoke 
rises from the ruins of Gaza and the grave humanitarian 
crisis  is  once  again  laid  bare  for  the  world  to  see,  the 
Maldives  will  not  waver  in  its  steadfast  support  for 
Palestine,  nor  will  it  retreat  from  condemning  the 
serious injustices committed in the occupied territories 
as recently as last week.
The  Maldives  welcomes  the  statement  by  the 
President of the State of Palestine, Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, 
delivered yesterday afternoon in the General Assembly 
(see  A/67/PV.44).  We  commend  his  extraordinary 
vision  and  his  leadership  of  the  Palestinian  people  in 
the face of an endless struggle for freedom.
My delegation wishes to express its appreciation to 
the Secretary-General for his efforts in the compilation 
of his report (A/67/364), in accordance with Assembly 
resolution  66/17.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People for its report (A/67/35) and for its 
commendable achievements over the past years.
The  observations  in  the  reports  to  the  General 
Assembly  once  again  demonstrate  that  a  peaceful 
settlement  to  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  wider 
Arab-Israeli conf lict lies in a two-State solution — two 
States  living  side  by  side  on  the  basis  of  pre-1967 
borders,  with  Jerusalem  as  their  shared  capital.  They 
also show that efforts to achieve a negotiated settlement 
are  being  quickly  eroded  by  the  lack  of  trust  between 
6 
12-62137
the  two  sides  for  resuming  direct  negotiations  and  an 
alarming lack of confidence in the peace process itself.
The Maldives strongly backed the initiative by the 
Palestinians last year for full membership in the United 
Nations. We did so fully adhering to the view that it was 
long overdue for Palestine to be an equal among nations 
and to join an international family that has passionately 
supported the struggle of all Palestinians. Furthermore, 
we hold a strong belief in the conviction that their right 
to self-determination must be fully realized. Statehood 
will  bring  the  sense  of  leadership,  responsibility  and 
obligation  that  surrounds  the  business  of  governance. 
The restoration of Palestinian rights would also alleviate 
to  some  extent  their  socioeconomic  problems  —  a 
crumbling infrastructure and decades of psychological 
and material damage endured under occupation.
While  an  independent,  viable  and  sovereign  State 
of  Palestine  is  the  ultimate  objective,  we  believe  that 
granting  the  status  of  non-member  observer  State  in 
the  General  Assembly  is  a  landmark  achievement. 
My  delegation  was  pleased  to  join  the  list  of  sponsors 
of  resolution  67/19,  entitled  “Status  of  Palestine  in 
the  United  Nations”,  which  was  adopted  with  an 
overwhelming level of support and endorsement by the 
United Nations membership.
My  Government  hails  the  ceasefire  that  recently 
came  into  effect  between  Hamas  and  Israel.  We 
commend the Egyptian Government, the United States 
and  the  United Nations  for  their  exemplary  leadership 
in preventing a further escalation of the crisis. Military 
strikes  on  highly  populated  areas  in  Gaza  took  the 
lives of many innocent civilians, including women and 
children, adding to the layers of destruction and rubble 
left by years of hardship, the illegal Israeli blockade and 
ground invasions of recent memory. We also call upon 
Hamas to cease all rocket attacks on the State of Israel 
and to respect and uphold the ceasefire agreement so as 
to avoid further bloodshed and suffering.
Israel’s expansion of illegal settlements undermines 
peace efforts and is at the crux of the current stalemate 
faced  by  the  global  community.  Despite  international 
outrage and multiple calls to cease all settlement activity 
immediately,  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues 
to  operate  with  total  impunity,  making  a  mockery  of 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  The 
forced  eviction  of  Palestinians  and  the  demolition 
of  their  homes  to  make  way  for  Israeli  settlers  could 
not  be  described  as  anything  other  than  an  outright 
A/67/PV.46
illegal  seizure  of  territory  by  an  occupying  Power.  In 
the  pursuit  of  meaningful  negotiations  and  a  lasting 
peace, the onus is on Israel, as the occupying Power, to 
demonstrate  its  compliance  with  its  obligations  under 
international  humanitarian  law,  including  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention,  to  cease  all  illegal  settlement 
activity in the occupied territories.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the commitment of 
the Government of Maldives to support all international 
efforts  to  seek  a  just  and  comprehensive  settlement  to 
the question of Palestinian statehood, including all final 
status issues. The urgency of achieving that objective is 
evident, as the Palestinians find themselves surrounded 
by  Arab  freedom  movements.  Both  fight  for  common 
goals  —  a  sacred  belief  that  their  destiny  should  be 
squarely  in  their  own  hands,  and  a  better  world  for 
future  generations.  Both  also  believe  that  having  the 
responsibility  to  govern  would  bring  pragmatism  and 
accountability  for  their  own  actions.  The  resolution 
adopted yesterday is an important step in that direction. 
It is time for the Palestinians to achieve statehood and to 
decide  their  future  free  from  occupation,  intimidation 
and aggression.
Mr.  Kommasith 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): My delegation endorses the statement made 
at  the  45th  meeting  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
Just  yesterday,  we  adopted  resolution  67/19, 
according  Palestine  non-member  observer  State  status 
in the United Nations. My country was a sponsor of that 
resolution,  and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
the Palestinian people on that auspicious occasion. As 
many  of  us  have  said,  it  is  a  critical  issue  of  global 
justice  and  a  defining  test  for  the  Organization  to 
move  in  that  direction.  Member  States  must  therefore 
further  work  towards  the  Palestinians’  being  able  to 
realize  their  inalienable  rights,  including  the  rights  of 
return  and  self-determination,  as  well  as  their  earnest 
aspirations  to  freedom,  prosperity,  peace  and  justice 
in  an  independent,  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  based 
on the pre-1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.
We must acknowledge that the Palestinian people’s 
acquisition of a new status and new rights in the United 
Nations as a recognized State does not negate their firm 
commitment  to  resolve  the  conf lict  through  dialogue 
and  peaceful  means.  We  are  well  aware  of  their 
suffering  and  struggle  over  the  past  several  decades, 
12-62137
7
A/67/PV.46
without  any  glimpse  of  hope,  while  the  international 
community  could  not  take  decisive  action  at  the  level 
where it mattered most.
foundations 
Over  time,  we  have  seen  the  growing  ability  of 
the  Palestinian  Authority  to  establish  the  necessary 
institutional 
international 
recognition of Palestinian statehood, as endorsed by all 
major  international  organizations  and  institutions.  We 
commend the Palestinians for making that heroic effort, 
despite the grave obstacles and challenges imposed on 
them.
for 
the 
The  continued  illegal  settlement  activity  and 
destruction  of  properties,  homes  and  economic 
institutions  in  the  occupied  land  not  only  cause  the 
deterioration  of  the  already  critical  socioeconomic 
situation  that  the  Palestinian  population  face,  but  also 
constitute  a  breach  of  international  law,  including 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  as 
well  as  impeding  the  peace  process  and  opportunities 
for  negotiation.  Therefore,  those  provocative  acts 
should stop immediately.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  wishes  to 
see a just, lasting, comprehensive and peaceful solution 
to the Palestinian-Israeli conf lict, in keeping with  the 
relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  Quartet 
road  map,  which  envisages  a  sovereign,  independent 
and viable State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its 
capital, living side by side in peace with the Jewish State 
of Israel, within secure and internationally recognized 
borders.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  parties  to  resume 
and  accelerate  direct  peace  negotiations  towards  the 
conclusion of a final peaceful settlement on that basis.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  long 
recognized the State of Palestine, and I wish to reaffirm 
its  consistent  support  for  the  Palestinian  people  in 
attaining  their  long-delayed  goal  of  a  viable,  peaceful 
and prosperous State of Palestine that is a full-f ledged 
Member of the United Nations. I take this opportunity 
to  commend  the  role  and  work  of  United  Nations 
agencies,  especially  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, 
to assist millions of Palestinian people in need over all 
these  many  years  amid  multiple  difficulties.  We  also 
wish the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  every  success  in  its 
noble  endeavour  for  a  peaceful,  just,  comprehensive 
and lasting solution to the question of Palestine.
Mr. Llorenty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia 
aligns itself with the statement made at the 45th meeting 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  Bolivian  Government  — 
the  Bolivian 
State  —  stands  by  the  Palestinian  people’s  cause  and 
supports  the  exercise  of  their  rights.  We  also  support 
the  establishment  of  the  Palestinian  State,  based  on 
pre-1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital. 
We  support  the  decision  of  our  Palestinian  brothers 
and  sisters  regarding  their  inalienable  right  to  self-
determination.
Yesterday was a historic day. The General Assembly 
fulfilled  its  incontrovertible  moral,  political  and  legal 
obligation  to  guarantee  recognition  of  the  Palestinian 
State.  That  historic  step  will  without  doubt  reaffirm 
faith in the Assembly and in the Organization.
Bolivia  not  only  resolutely  supported  resolution 
67/19  adopted  yesterday;  it  also  denounces  the  crimes 
that Israel is committing against the Palestinian people. 
Bolivia  denounces  Israel’s  occupation  of  Palestinian 
territory.  Bolivia  denounces  the  illegal  settlements 
that  are  multiplying  in  Palestinian  territory.  Bolivia 
denounces  the  construction  of  that  unspeakable  wall. 
Bolivia  denounces  the  violations  of  international 
humanitarian law in that part of the world.
We  hope  that  the  resolution  adopted  yesterday  by 
this great Assembly will allow an end to the bombings, 
attacks and assassinations and allow the building of the 
Palestinian State, coexisting peaceably with the Israeli 
State. Bolivia applauds the Assembly’s effort and work 
in this matter.
Mr. Cancela (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish):
“Both peoples are fully ripe for independence. 
We  are  not  here  to  give  lessons  in  organization  to 
two  peoples  in  their  infancy,  two  peoples  whose 
destinies  are  just  beginning.  The  Jewish  effort  in 
Palestine  is,  in  many  respects,  exemplary  ...  And 
the ability of the Arabs to shape their own destiny 
by  their  work,  their  initiative  and  their  courage 
is  shown  not  only  by  their  present  achievements 
but  by  their  glorious  past.  Those  of  us  who  are 
voting  for  [the  resolution]  are  not  voting  against 
either of these two peoples, against either of those 
two  sectors  of  social  reality  in  Palestine.  We  are 
voting  for  both  of  them,  for  their  progress,  their 
8 
12-62137
civic  development,  their  advancement  within  the 
community of nations” (A/PV.125, p. 1350).
Those sentences were not written for this occasion. 
They are from an explanation of vote delivered by the 
representative  of  Uruguay,  Ambassador  Rodríguez 
Fabregat, exactly 65 years ago, on 26 November 1947, 
when  the  General  Assembly  was  to  vote  on  resolution 
181 (II), which approved the Partition Plan and the two-
State solution.
the  adoption  of 
Sixty-five  years  after 
that 
resolution,  which  Uruguay  clearly  supported,  we  are 
convinced that there cannot be a solution to the peace 
process in the Middle East without the existence of two 
strong  States.  For  that  reason  we  are  fully  confident 
that  the  equally  clear  support  that  we  gave  yesterday 
to  resolution  67/19  does  nothing  to  impede  efforts 
to  resume  the  peace  process  but  on  the  contrary,  it 
stimulates and complements it.
Uruguay  supports  the  right  of  the  States  of 
Israel  and  Palestine  to  live  in  peace,  within  safe  and 
recognized  borders,  in  an  environment  of  renewed 
cooperation,  free  from  any  threats  or  acts  that  disturb 
peace,  including  terrorist  acts.  We  recognize  that  the 
Palestinian  people  have  a  legitimate  right  to  live  in 
a  safe,  robust  State  that  is  economically  viable  and 
at  peace  with  Israel.  However,  we  know  that  nothing 
can  replace  bilateral  dialogue  and  that  it  is  through 
such  dialogue  that  a  solution  must  be  found  to  the 
various  outstanding  issues.  It  is  therefore  crucial  that 
negotiations be resumed as soon as possible.
Full respect for international law and its principles, 
for  international  humanitarian  law,  for  international 
human rights law and for United Nations resolutions is 
the key to facilitating a peaceful, fair and lasting solution 
to the conf lict. That statement, though obvious, cannot 
be taken for granted, particularly when considering the 
fragility of the current situation in the region.
We hope that the adoption of the draft resolution on 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People  (A/67/L.17)  will  contribute  to  easing  the 
tension  that  prevails  today  in  the  region,  especially 
in  the  Gaza  Strip,  where  we  must  establish  conditions 
for  humanitarian  assistance  and  for  respect  for  the 
human  rights  of  the  civilian  population,  to  prevent 
further suffering. But above all, we hope for a speedy 
resumption of the peace process, so that, once and for 
all, the wish that Israel and Palestine can live in peace 
can  be  fulfilled.  Along  that  path,  Israel  and  Palestine 
A/67/PV.46
will  find  Uruguay  in  the  same  place  it  was  65  years 
ago  —  that  of  a  friendly  country  and  a  constructive 
interlocutor  that  wishes  only  peace  and  well-being for 
both peoples.
Mr.  Al-Sallal  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Chair  of  the 
Committee  for  his  efforts  to  promote  the  Palestinian 
cause. We wish to take this opportunity to express our 
joy  with  regard  to  the  commemoration  today  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  It  is  a  resounding  proof  of  the  legitimacy  of 
their  struggle  and  their  right  to  resist  occupation  and 
establish  an  independent  State  on  their  own  national 
soil with East Jerusalem as its capital.
More  than  six  decades  have  passed  since  the 
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
by  the  General  Assembly.  We  regret  that,  for  all  that 
time, the Palestinian people have been deprived of their 
rights  as  a  result  of  the  terrible  escalation  of  Israeli 
violence, the settlement expansion and the infringement 
of the rights of unarmed Palestinians. In addition, there 
have  also  been  the  killing  of  activists,  the  oppression 
of  prisoners  and  the  ongoing  attempts  to  destroy  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque  by  the  Israelis,  all  of  which  requires 
that  the  United  Nations  play  a  stronger  and  more 
effective leading role, without omitting the role of the 
United  Nations  agencies,  which  must  also  deal  with 
Israel’s refusal to respect international resolutions. Such 
a  refusal  denies  any  chances  of  peaceful  or  pragmatic 
solutions and initiatives.
The  international  community  has  not  exerted 
pressure on Israel, and that is the main missing factor 
impeding  the  implementation  of  international  justice. 
It  undermines  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
requirements  of  international  law.  It  also  impedes 
justice, liberty and the implementation of international 
resolutions.
From this rostrum, we fully support the admission 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  as  a  fully  f ledged  State 
Member of the United Nations. We reiterate the legality 
of that request and the need to guarantee the rights of 
the Palestinian people, in accordance with international 
law  and  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions.  We  call 
upon the Security Council to respond positively to the 
request for the admission of Palestine as a fully f ledged 
State Member of the United Nations. We commend the 
12-62137
9
A/67/PV.46
Palestinian  State  and  the  Palestinian  people  on  this 
historic occasion, namely the granting of non-member 
observer  status  to  Palestine  at  the  United  Nations, 
with  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution 
67/19,  entitled  “Status  of  Palestine  in  the  United 
Nations”. The resolution’s adoption coincided with the 
commemoration of the International Day of Solidarity 
with the Palestinian People.
The peace process has reached a stalemate, as the 
Israeli Government has continued its settlement policies, 
expanding  into  more  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory  and  into  Jerusalem.  Israel  refuses  to  put  an 
end  to  that  policy,  which  violates  international  law 
and relevant international resolutions and fails to meet 
the  requirements  for  peace.  That  Israeli  stubbornness 
has  stymied  the  chances  of  achieving  peace  and  the 
possibility of establishing a sovereign Palestinian State. 
We  hold  Israel  fully  responsible  for  the  stalemate  in 
those  negotiations  and  for  the  settlement  policy  that  it 
has adopted as an alternative to peace, even though the 
international  community  has  clearly  and  unanimously 
confirmed  the  illegality  of  those  settlements  and  the 
extensive damage that has been wrought as a result of 
the  settlements  on  the  negotiations,  given  the  impact 
that they have had on the possibility of attaining a just 
and comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
Once  again,  my  delegation  restates  that  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace  will  only  be  achieved  through 
a  complete  Israeli  withdrawal  from  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  to  the  borders  established  before 
4 June 1967, and that peace requires the establishment of 
an  independent  Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital, as well as the withdrawal from the Syrian 
Golan  and  from  the  occupied  territories  in  southern 
Lebanon. To that end, we call upon the United Nations 
and  the  international  community  to  fully  shoulder 
their  responsibilities  by  guaranteeing  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  by  compelling  Israel  to  refrain 
from  its  policy  of  State  terrorism  and  violence  and 
by  urging  Israel  to  truly  implement  the  international 
resolutions  and  regional  initiatives  relating  to  the 
peace  process,  so  that  peace  can  be  forged  and  we 
can  find  just  and  comprehensive  solutions  allowing 
for the establishment of an independent and sovereign 
Palestinian State.
There  can  be  no  talk  of  peace  or  security  or 
stability  in  the  region  as  long  as  Israel’s  occupation 
of  the  Palestinian  territories  continues  and  the  crimes 
perpetrated  as  a  result  of  the  occupation  continue 
against the Palestinian people, who are defending their 
existence,  independence  and  dignity.  Those  crimes 
have  severely  affected  Gaza.  As  a  result  of  Israel’s 
aggressions,  heinous  crimes  have  been  perpetrated 
against  innocent  civilians  in  Gaza,  against  women, 
children and the elderly. Those acts of aggression have 
destroyed  homes  and  ref lect  one  of  the  worst  faces  of 
State  terrorism.  Those  practices  violate  human  rights, 
and  we  call  upon  the  international  community,  as 
represented  by  the  Security  Council,  to  shoulder  its 
responsibilities  in  order  to  ensure  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  in  accordance  with 
the  Charter,  and  protect  the  Palestinian  people  by 
guaranteeing  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
region.  Such  a  peace  is  more  urgent  now  than  ever 
before.  Indeed,  an  independent  Palestinian  State  must 
be established, and the root causes of the conf lict must 
be  tackled.  They  must  be  addressed  by  putting  an 
end  to  Israel’s  occupation  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories.
We  call  upon  the  Palestinian  leaders  to  set  aside 
their  differences,  close  ranks  and  work  together  in 
order to promote comprehensive national reconciliation 
in  Palestine,  which  will  help  strengthen  security,  so 
that  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  —  the 
desire to put an end to the occupation and to establish 
an  independent  State  —  may  be  realized.  They  aspire 
to put an end to the occupation and establish a national 
independent State.
Gaza  is  under  an  illegal  and  inhumane  siege  that 
has lasted for more than five years, and is troubled by a 
deep economic crisis. It is also troubled by the lack of 
health  care  and  social  services.  More  than  1.7  million 
Palestinians  are  suffering  in  Gaza  as  a  result  of  the 
humanitarian crisis.
The crisis requires the United Nations to fulfil its 
responsibilities. The international community must end 
the unjust blockade. Gaza must be promptly rebuilt; all 
crossing points must be reopened; and the suffering of 
the Palestinian people must be alleviated.
Ms. Al-Nussairy (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the Government and people of Iraq, I would like to 
extend  our  sincere  congratulations  to  the  Palestinian 
people and Government on their achieving non-member 
observer State status at the United Nations. It is a historic 
achievement and the first step towards full recognition 
of  the  State  of  Palestine.  Resolution  67/19,  entitled 
“Status  of  Palestinian  in  the  United  Nations”,  under 
10 
12-62137
A/67/PV.46
agenda  item  37  at  the  sixty-seventh  session,  received 
138  votes  in  favour.  That  shows  that  the  international 
community is convinced of the right of the Palestinian 
people  to  self-determination  and  of  their  right  to  live 
in  peace,  freedom  and  full  sovereignty,  unfettered  by 
Israeli occupation.
We are all the more proud because we were among 
the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution.  We  have  always 
stressed  our  full,  unreserved  solidarity  with  the 
demands  by  the  Palestinian  people  for  their  right  to 
self-determination  and  for  recognition  of  the  State  of 
Palestine,  within  the  pre-1967  borders.  We  stress  the 
provisions of the resolution dealing with the realization 
by  the  Palestinian  people  of  their  inalienable  rights  to 
self-determination and to a peaceful settlement to end 
the  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  land,  and  to  the 
resumption  and  acceleration  of  negotiations  under  the 
umbrella of the Middle East peace process.
The  peace  process  is  at  a  standstill,  as  if  it  were 
in  a  cul-de-sac.  The  economic  and  social  situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  is  abysmal  and 
continues to deteriorate because Israel refuses to freeze 
settlement activities and abide by the established terms 
of  reference  of  the  peace  process.  The  situation  of 
Palestine  under  occupation,  the  aggression  against  its 
land and the expulsion of Palestinians from their homes 
are all part of the Israeli strategy to force Palestinians 
to abandon their land, in order to entrench a permanent 
occupation. Israel continues to encroach on Palestinian 
land,  to  violate  the  human  rights  of  civilians  and  to 
disregard international resolutions and the principles of 
the Charter.
We  therefore  call  on  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community to intensify efforts to support 
the Palestinian people in achieving its correct full status 
in  international  forums  and  organizations.  We  call  on 
the  international  community  to  deter  the  continuing 
Israeli aggression against the Palestinian people, which 
has  led  to  thousands  of  victims,  including  children, 
women and the elderly.
Israel  must  put  an  end  to  its  ongoing  colonization 
of  Palestinian  land.  Iraq,  in  support  of  the  Palestinian 
cause  and  because  of  its  deep  belief  in  the  need  for 
the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  full  sovereignty, 
independence  and  a  true  life  of  dignity,  has  decided 
to  host  an  international  conference  in  Baghdad  next 
month on Palestinian detainees, in order to consider the 
issue  of  Palestinian  and  Arab  detainees  and  prisoners 
in  Israeli  occupation  prisons,  in  implementation  of 
the  Baghdad  Summit  of  the  League  of  Arab  States. 
Invitations  have  been  issued  to  eminent  regional 
and  international  persons  to  attend  the  upcoming 
conference. We reiterate our support for the Palestinian 
cause and hope that the Palestinian people will gain full 
membership  in  the  United  Nations  and  will  live  in  an 
independent sovereign State, with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.
Ms.  Gunnarsdóttir  (Iceland):  On  behalf  of  the 
Icelandic  Government,  I  extend  warm  congratulations 
to our Palestinian sisters and brothers. Resolution 67/19, 
adopted by the General Assembly yesterday, is a major 
step by the international community towards fulfilling 
a promise made a long time ago.
It is the sincere hope of the Icelandic Government 
that the resolution will become a turning point towards 
peace and that it will be used to reinvigorate efforts by 
both parties, as well as the international community, to 
negotiate all outstanding issues leading to a two-State 
solution  with  Palestine  and  Israel  living  side  by  side 
in  peace  and  security.  We  also  hope  to  see  renewed 
efforts  towards  Palestinian  reconciliation  and  for  the 
international community to accommodate such efforts.
We  welcome  the  broad  support  demonstrated  by 
the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  for  the  legitimate 
national  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people.  We 
call  upon  all  Members,  including  Israel,  to  unite  and 
embrace  the  momentum  created  by  this  occasion.  A 
negotiated  political  solution  is  by  far  the  best  way  to 
reach  peace  and  ensure  long-term  security  for  both 
Israelis and Palestinians.
Iceland  has  consistently  argued  for  the  principle 
of self-determination on the part of small nations. The 
right  of  a  people  to  choose  its  own  destiny  and  carve 
out  its  own  future  is  a  vitally  important  concept  for 
small nations such as Iceland. It is on the basis of that 
principle  that  Iceland  supports,  and  will  continue  to 
support, the Palestinian struggle for self-determination 
and freedom from occupation.
Once again, we welcome Palestine as a non-member 
observer  State,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  time  when 
we  will  be  able  to  salute  the  State  of  Palestine  as  the 
194th Member State.
Ms. Lalama (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): Ecuador 
congratulates Palestine on the overwhelming vote in its 
favour  cast  by  the  international  community  yesterday, 
12-62137
11
A/67/PV.46
29  November,  when  the  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
67/19.  Our  votes  were  the  expression  of  our  firm 
commitment  to  finding  a  lasting  and  fair  peace  for 
the  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  That  significant  support 
shows our recognition of the historic injustice that has 
been  done  to  the  Palestinian  people.  It  reaffirms  their 
human and national rights and calls for respect for, and 
compliance  with,  international  law  and  humanitarian 
law. Moreover, it also acknowledges the oppression that 
has been committed by the neighbouring army.
The endorsement of Palestine as an observer State 
represents  the  support  of  the  international  community 
for  the  peace  process  and  is  a  strong  message  to  the 
Quartet,  especially 
the  Security  Council,  which 
has  covertly  tolerated  the  protracted  occupation  of 
Palestinian territory, as proven by the recent events in 
Gaza.
In  keeping  with  its  principles  of  the  right  to  self-
determination  of  peoples  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  that  are  enshrined  in  article  416  of  its 
Constitution, Ecuador is convinced that an independent, 
sovereign,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State 
is  a  key  element  in  resolving  the  conf lict.  It  would 
have  positive  effects  for  Israel’s  security,  for  the 
establishment  of  peace  in  the  region  and  thus  for  the 
international community.
A just, peaceful and lasting solution can be achieved 
through  dialogue  among  the  parties  that  is  based  on 
respect  for  the  basic  norms  of  international  law  and 
the  treaties  and  resolutions  of  the  political  bodies  of 
the  United  Nations.  In  that  context,  my  country  calls 
upon Israel to halt the acts of individual and collective 
punishment  and  to  immediately  halt  its  military 
occupation of Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem 
by  implementing  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967) and 338 (1973). It must also immediately end its 
blockade  against  food  supplies,  water,  medication  and 
basic services in the Palestinian territories.
At this new stage in history, my country calls upon 
the  parties  to  sit  down  at  the  negotiating  table  with  a 
sense of urgency, in order to attain the peace to which 
all aspire.
Finally,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  Ecuador  will 
continue to extend its firm support and solidarity to the 
people of Palestine and to fully support their aspirations 
to become a fully f ledged State Member of the United 
Nations.
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
7  January  2011,  the  Government  of  Chile  officially 
recognized the State of Palestine as a free, independent 
and sovereign State. On that basis, my delegation, in an 
act of justice and solidarity with the Palestinian people, 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19,  which  granted  to 
Palestine  non-member  observer  State  status  in  the 
General  Assembly,  yesterday  afternoon,  29  November 
2012.
As  stated  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Chile in the general debate of the sixty-seventh session 
of the General Assembly, in September:
“We  strongly  believe  that  the  Palestinian  people 
have  the  right  to  a  free,  sovereign  and  democratic 
State. However, we also note that the State of Israel 
has  the  right  to  recognized,  safe  and  respected 
borders.  Only  in  that  way  will  Palestinians  and 
Israelis  be  able  to  coexist  and  move  forward  in 
peace and harmony.” (A/67/PV.15, p. 38) 
In  that  context,  my  delegation  calls  for  the  rapid 
resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between  the  Israeli 
Government and the Palestinian Authority, with a view 
to  finding  a  stable  and  lasting  solution  based  on  two 
independent and sovereign States.
My delegation also calls for an end to the violence 
that has affected so many innocent civilians — Israelis 
and Palestinians — and that impedes the peace process 
that is as necessary as it is longed for, so that they may 
coexist  harmoniously  and  with  good  understanding  as 
two peoples and two States, friends of Chile.
My  country  hopes  and  expects  that  the  current 
ceasefire can be further strengthened by resuming the 
bilateral dialogue for the sake of peace.
Mr. Pham Vinh Quang (Viet Nam): At the outset, 
on behalf the Government and the people of Viet Nam, I 
would like to congratulate Palestine on being accorded 
non-member  observer  State  status  in  the  United 
Nations. On this occasion, Viet Nam wishes to reaffirm 
its  principled  support  for  the  courageous  struggle  and 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  over  more  than  65 
years, in particular the right to self-determination and 
the establishment of an independent State.
Viet  Nam  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  in 
its  early  days.  It  co-sponsored  resolution  67/19  and 
will  support  Palestine’s  legitimate  request  for  full 
membership in the United Nations.
12 
12-62137
A/67/PV.46
Viet  Nam  is  of  the  view  that  the  Arab-Israeli 
conf lict, of which the Palestinian question is the core, 
can be solved only through peaceful negotiations aimed 
at a just, lasting, comprehensive and peaceful solution 
based  on  respect  for  the  legitimate  interests  of  all 
concerned parties, especially the fundamental rights of 
the Palestinian people, including their right to establish 
a State of Palestine in their homeland.
Viet  Nam  supports  all  regional  and  international 
efforts to move the Middle East peace process forward 
and  urges  the  parties  concerned  to  work  together  to 
realize the agreements and thus contribute to peace and 
stability in the region. We call for intensified efforts by 
the international community, in particular the Security 
Council and the Quartet, to address the current political 
and humanitarian crisis and to promote a just, lasting, 
comprehensive and peaceful solution to the Palestinian-
Israeli conf lict and the Arab-Israeli conf lict.
Once  again,  the  Government  and  people  of  Viet 
Nam  reaffirm  their  strong  support  for  the  just  cause 
and  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
We  firmly  believe  that  the  struggle  of  the  Palestinian 
people, with the support of the international community, 
will achieve full victory.
Mr.  Momen  (Bangladesh):  Yesterday  was  a 
historic  day.  On  that  day,  the  United  Nations  granted 
Palestine  the  status  of  non-member  observer  State  in 
this body. The day will be remembered as a milestone 
on the road to achieving full statehood for the Palestine 
people  and  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  We  are  proud 
to  have  co-sponsored  resolution  67/19,  which  granted 
that status. We are pleased to stay on the right side of 
history. It was not our political or strategic choice, but 
our moral obligation to stand by the oppressed people of 
Palestine  in  their  right  struggle  for  self-determination 
and independence.
historic  decision,  which  is  a  step  towards  peace  and 
security in the Middle East.
We are convinced that the new status will provide 
much-needed  impetus  to  the  stalled  peace  process, 
contrary  to  what  some  apprehend.  The  progress  on 
Palestinian  status  at  the  United  Nations  will  generate 
a  new  dynamism  in  the  peace  process  and  uphold 
the  two-State  solution  espoused  by  the  international 
community.
Some delegations argued that the status should have 
been  decided  through  negotiations  between  the  two 
parties, not by this multilateral body. History does not 
support them. Bangladesh is a case in point. My country 
came into being through struggle for self-determination. 
We  proceeded  in  a  similar  fashion  in  this  multilateral 
forum.  First,  we  received  the  approval  of  the  General 
Assembly, and eventually came the endorsement of the 
Security Council. Bangladesh emerged as a responsible 
and proud member of the community of nations by that 
multilateral move. The country of Israel, which objected 
to this General Assembly resolution, was founded in the 
land  of  Palestine  through  a  United  Nations  resolution, 
not by any bilateral negotiations.
The  past  year  has  been  characterized  by  the 
stalemate  in  the  peace  process  and  the  deteriorating 
situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  There 
has  been  no  sign  of  the  peace  negotiations  resuming. 
Israel  continues  to  refuse  to  freeze  its  settlement 
activity  and  adhere  to  other  terms  of  reference  of  the 
peace  process.  A  Palestinian  State  cannot  emerge  out 
of bilateral negotiations in such a scenario. The mindset 
of the leadership must change. The people of Palestine 
languish under unilateral Israeli occupation, unilateral 
blockade  and  unilateral  closures,  day  after  day,  year 
after year. They are left with no choice but to approach 
this body and seek whatever redress is possible.
The  decision  was  taken  on  an  auspicious  day,  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  Sixty-five  years  ago  on  that  day,  the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II), which partitioned 
the land of historic Palestine into two States — the State 
of Israel and an Arab State of Palestine. As for Palestine, 
statehood has evaded it for more than six decades. With 
the overwhelming support that the resolution received, 
we  can  genuinely  hope  that  Palestine  will  soon  enjoy 
full membership in the United Nations and perform as 
a  sovereign  and  active  Member,  like  any  other  nation. 
We regret that some delegations could not support this 
The report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  (A/67/35) 
and  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/67/364) 
ref lect,  yet  again,  the  appalling  human  rights  and 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories.  We  regret  that  repeated  appeals  of  the 
international  community  to  improve  the  deteriorating 
conditions of the Palestinian people remain unheeded. 
The illegal separation wall continues to divide and isolate 
communities,  destroying  livelihoods  and  preventing 
hundreds  of  thousands  access  to  their  jobs,  families, 
markets, schools and hospitals. Israel continues to build 
12-62137
13
A/67/PV.46
the  wall  on  West  Bank  land,  contrary  to  the  advisory 
opinion of the International Court of Justice (see A/ES-
10/273).  Walls  are  not  a  solution.  Echoing  President 
Ronald Reagan, I ask that these walls be torn down in 
order to have sustainable peace and security.
Gaza’s  borders  have  been  subject  to  a  regime  of 
closure that is without precedent anywhere on the planet 
Earth. The quality of life of the Palestinians had already 
diminished to subsistence level. The periodic escalation 
of violence only leads to further desperation and despair. 
The  question  is:  Is  Israel  doing  this  purposefully,  to 
generate  fear,  fury  and  distress  among  Palestinians? 
The  recent  attacks  in  Gaza  were,  yet  again,  f lagrant 
violations of international law by the occupying Power, 
Israel,  in  utter  disregard  for  international  outcry.  The 
question is: Will not such acts generate more hatred and 
foment  further  polarization  and  extremism?  It  is  time 
to  review  and  ref lect  and  make  strategic  choices  for  a 
better future for both peoples.
One issue that deserves the most serious attention 
is  the  continued  construction  of  Jewish  settlements  in 
the  occupied  territories.  The  international  community 
has  made  repeated  calls  to  cease  such  activities,  and 
Israel  has,  time  and  again,  expressed  its  commitment 
to  do  so.  The  settlements  present  an  existential  threat 
to  the  viability  of  a  future  Palestinian  State.  They  are 
contrary  to  international  law  and  the  road  map,  and 
they  must  cease.  The  International  Court  of  Justice 
described  the  violation  by  Israel  of  the  Palestinian 
people’s  right  to  self-determination  as  the  violation  of 
an obligation erga omnes. If we are serious about peace 
in the Middle East, we must exert collective pressure on 
Israel  to  stop  expansion  of  the  illegal  settlements  and 
dismantle the existing ones, in line with its obligations 
under article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention.
The  upgraded  status  of  Palestine  is  a  small  step 
toward  amending  an  historical  injustice.  Much  work 
lies  ahead  to  create  the  conditions  that  will  allow  the 
resumption  of  meaningful  negotiations  and  preserve 
the viability of the two-State solution. Our goal remains 
realizing the inalienable and legitimate aspiration of the 
Palestinian  people  by  creating  an  independent,  viable, 
contiguous  and  sovereign  State  of  Palestine  based  on 
the  1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
living side by side with Israel consistent with relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  in  accordance  with 
the Quartet road map, the Arab Peace Initiative and the 
principle of land for peace.
That needs our collective resolve. Otherwise, peace, 
hope and prosperity of the peoples in the Holy Land will 
remain as elusive as ever. Let us hope that the adoption 
of  resolution  67/19  will  lead  to  better  understanding 
and urgency between Israel and Palestine to restart the 
stalled peace negotiations for achieving a lasting peace 
in the Middle East.
Mr. Al-Mouallimi (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 
Yesterday,  at  the  44th  meeting,  the  General  Assembly 
voted  to  recognize  Palestine  as  a  country  deserving 
of  life.  Today  we  endorse  the  inalienable  rights  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  life,  dignity,  sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and self-determination.
The  vote  that  we  witnessed  yesterday  was  a 
manifestation of the voice of history as a symphony of 
peace,  independence  and  freedom.  At  the  same  time, 
it  served  as  a  cry  in  the  face  of  injustice,  aggression, 
occupation  and  racism.  How  fortunate  it  was  that  the 
vote  took  place  only  a  few  days  after  the  barbaric 
aggression  launched  by  Israel  against  the  Palestinian 
people in Gaza. The echo reverberating from New York 
affirmed that the voice of justice is louder than the cry 
of  injustice  and  the  symphony  of  peace  is  softer  than 
the drums of war, and that the f lowers of freedom will 
not be crushed under the tanks of occupation.
The  people  of  Mecca  and  Medina  longingly  look 
towards  the  Holy  City  of  Jerusalem,  awaiting  the  day 
that the blessed Al-Aqsa Mosque will be released from 
its prison and Jerusalem will be restored as the eternal 
capital  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  its  independent 
State once and for all.
The  dream  of  the  late  King  Faisal  Bin  Abdulaziz 
Al-Saud  to  pray  in  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  has  become 
the  dream  of  his  brothers  and  his  people.  Today  that 
dream  belongs  to  all  Saudis,  foremost  among  them 
King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al-Saud,  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  the  monarch  who  launched 
the  historic  message  for  dialogue  among  all  peoples, 
cultures  and  religions.  That  message  is  represented 
by  Jerusalem,  with  all  its  mosques,  churches  and 
synagogues.  It  is  a  city  that  is  a  real  embodiment  of 
that  message  as  it  breaks  the  shackles  of  occupation, 
persecution and racism. 
Let  us  thank  all  those  who  voted  for  resolution 
67/19,  those  who  took  their  rightful  place  among  the 
supporters  of  right  and  justice.  We  hope  that  others 
will  realize  that  they  must  board  the  train  of  history. 
They  must  start  work  on  accepting  the  application  by 
14 
12-62137
Palestine  for  full  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
They have to end the occupation, bring about peace and 
achieve  Palestine’s  full  independence,  in  accordance 
with  the  relevant  international  resolutions,  which  are 
legitimate and legal. 
Mr.  Alrowaiei  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
honoured to convey the congratulations of the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  to  the  brotherly  people  of  Palestine  on 
the  occasion  of  adoption  of  resolution  67/19,  which 
granted  Palestine  non-member  State  status  in  the 
United  Nations  by  an  overwhelming  majority.  That 
ref lects the support of the international community for 
the  Palestinian  application  and  its  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people  in  standing  against  the  occupation 
and  pursuing  its  national  aspirations  to  achieve  the 
right  to  self-determination  and  an  independent  State, 
with  sovereignty  over  its  national  soil  and  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital. On this occasion, we would like 
to pay tribute to the great efforts of the leadership of the 
Palestinian people and President Mahmoud Abbas.
On  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People,  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa 
Al  Khalifa,  the  Amir  of  Bahrain,  sends  a  message  in 
which he states that this important occasion reminds us 
all of the permanent responsibility of the United Nations 
vis-à-vis  the  Palestinian  people.  The  Organization 
must  resolve  the  Palestinian  issue  peacefully  in  all 
its  aspects,  in  a  just  and  comprehensive  way  and  in 
accordance with the relevant international resolutions. 
On this occasion, we renew our commitment, as the 
international  community,  to  our  special  responsibility 
to the Palestinian people to right the injustices that have 
befallen them since 1948. It is an occasion that embodies 
the  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
ending  the  Israeli  occupation  and  to  supporting  the 
Palestinian  people 
inalienable 
legal  rights  and  in  their  fight  to  achieve  freedom  and 
independence  and  to  exercise  their  legitimate  right 
to  self-determination,  to  return  to  their  land  and  to 
establish an independent country, with Jerusalem as its 
capital. 
in  achieving 
their 
Bahrain today renews its support for the just cause of 
the Palestinian people and calls for the implementation 
of  the  international  resolutions  aimed  at  establishing 
an  independent  Palestinian  State.  In  that  connection, 
we  would  like  to  express  our  thanks  and  appreciation 
to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its  Chairman, 
A/67/PV.46
territories, 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
Mr.  Abdou  Salam  Diallo,  for  their  efforts  to  end  the 
illegal Israeli occupation and establish an independent 
Palestinian  State.  We  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Committee  for  monitoring  the  deteriorating  situation 
including 
in 
the  many  political  developments  concerning 
the 
Palestinian  question.  We  also  thank  it  for  its  tireless 
efforts 
through  programmes, 
activities  and  international  conferences  and  meetings, 
of the importance of the Palestinian people being able 
to exercise their inalienable rights. We also pay tribute 
to the Department of Public Information for its special 
information programme on the question of Palestine. 
to  raise  awareness, 
The  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People  is  29  November,  which  is  the  same 
day  that  the  Palestine  Partition  Plan  was  adopted 
under resolution 181 (II), of 1947. In 1977, the General 
Assembly  decided  to  celebrate  this  day  every  year, 
recalling to us the importance of righting the injustices 
that  the  Palestinian  people  face  and  have  faced  for 
six  decades.  In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  express 
our  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  in  standing 
against  the  occupation  until  the  Palestinians  achieve 
their  national  aspirations  and  their  inalienable  rights. 
We reiterate our support for Palestine’s application, on 
23 September 2011, to be accepted as a full Member of 
the  United  Nations  so  that  the  Palestinian  people  can 
finally exercise their legitimate rights. 
A  just,  comprehensive  and  permanent  peace  is  a 
strategic choice. It will require the full implementation 
of  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  other 
relevant  agreements,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference, 
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  road  map  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative.
Mr.  Hardeep  Singh  Puri  (India):  At  the  outset, 
please  allow  me  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
President for convening this discussion on the question 
of  Palestine  in  the  General  Assembly.  I  also  would 
like to thank the President of Palestine, Mr. Mahmoud 
Abbas, for his statement yesterday (see A/67/PV.44).
in 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  leadership  and 
people  of  Palestine  on  the  upgrading  of  Palestine’s 
status 
to  non-member 
observer  State.  While  we  have  long  supported  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  leadership 
for  full  membership  in  the  United  Nations,  the  vote 
the  General  Assembly 
12-62137
15
A/67/PV.46
yesterday in the Assembly was an important milestone 
towards that goal. 
the  past 
The Arab world has been undergoing unprecedented 
transformation  during 
two  years.  The 
democratic  aspirations  of  people  in  several  countries 
are  being  addressed 
through  national  political 
processes. However, it is regrettable that the Palestinian 
question  and  the  related  Arab-Israeli  issues  have 
largely  remained  unaddressed  and  unresolved.  Also, 
the  Palestinian  application  for  full  membership  in  the 
United Nations, submitted more than a year ago, has not 
evinced any positive action from the Security Council, 
despite overwhelming support from the Member States. 
For  more  than  two  years  now,  there  have  been  no 
direct  talks  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  Meanwhile, 
the  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories 
has  been  deteriorating  due  to  settlement  activities  in 
the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  Those  activities 
are  creating  new  realities  on  the  ground  and  threaten 
the  very  premise  of  a  two-State  solution.  Settlements, 
roadblocks and the related infrastructure of occupation 
have  also  exacerbated  the  humanitarian  problems  of 
the  Palestinian  people  and  are  adversely  affecting  the 
normal functioning of Palestinian state institutions. The 
Palestinian  Authority  is  also  facing  a  severe  financial 
crisis that could erode the significant progress made by 
the Palestinian Authority in building state institutions.
The  blockade  of  Gaza  has  entered  its  sixth  year 
and  is  causing  severe  hardship  to  the  population. 
The  humanitarian  situation  continues  to  deteriorate, 
and  essential  services,  economic  activities  and 
infrastructure  development  have  been  disrupted. 
We  strongly  condemn  the  violence  and  deeply  regret 
the  loss  of  human  lives  during  the  recent  hostilities. 
We  hope  that  both  parties  will  uphold  the  ceasefire 
agreement and implement its provisions in good faith.
We  hope  that  the  adoption  yesterday  of  resolution 
67/19 will pave the way for the resumption of serious, 
direct  talks  between  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis. 
India has a long history of solidarity with the Palestinian 
people.  India  was  the  first  non-Arab  country  to 
recognize the State of Palestine nearly 25 years ago. In 
his  message  to  the  friendly  people  of  Palestine  on  the 
occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People, our Prime Minister, Mr. Manmohan 
Singh,  reiterated  India’s  unwavering  support  for 
the  Palestinian  people’s  struggle  for  a  sovereign, 
independent, viable and united State of Palestine, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  living  within  secure  and 
internationally  recognized  borders,  side  by  side  and 
at  peace  with  Israel,  as  endorsed  in  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  the  Quartet  road  map  and  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  India’s 
continued support for the Palestinian cause.
Mr.  Laram  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
honoured,  at  the  outset,  to  congratulate  President 
Mahmoud  Abbas  and  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people 
on  taking  a  first  step,  long  awaited  by  the  Palestinian 
people  and  a  large  part  of  the  world,  in  acquiring  an 
upgraded representation in the United Nations through 
the adoption of resolution 67/19. I want to express our 
pleasure  in  that  historic  achievement  at  a  time  when 
there  is  great  international  support  for  the  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  end  the  Israeli 
occupation and to establish an independent Palestinian 
State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  I  also  want 
to reiterate our unwavering support for the Palestinian 
cause  and  our  resolve  to  stand  side  by  side  with  the 
Palestinian people until the injustice under which they 
have suffered for more than six decades is ended.
The large number of countries that voted in favour 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  sent  a  message  to  the  entire 
international  community  that  there  is  unprecedented 
international unanimity in favour of realizing the rights 
of the Palestinian people and enabling the Palestinians, 
who  have  suffered  for  so  many  decades,  to  establish 
their  independent  State  and  to  live  in  dignity  within 
borders recognized by international law. 
In that context, Qatar reaffirms that the continued 
Israeli  military  occupation  and  Israel’s  persistence  in 
its  settlement  policy  are  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conf lict. Israel commits the worst kind of human rights 
violations  against  a  defenceless,  persecuted  people. 
Israel’s claim that it fights terrorism is false. Israel is an 
occupying  Power,  and  the  right  to  fight  an  occupation 
is a legal right and cannot be equated with the military 
aggression of the forces. 
In 
that  connection,  we  condemn 
the  Israeli 
aggression  against  Gaza 
two  weeks  ago,  which 
claimed the lives of more than 168 people and injured 
hundreds  of  innocent  civilians.  In  that  regard,  we 
call  upon  the  international  community  to  assume  its 
full  responsibility  and  to  deal  firmly  with  the  Israeli 
Government by compelling it to end the siege imposed 
on  Gaza  and  to  refrain  from  any  military  operations 
16 
12-62137
against  the  defenceless  populations  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territories, including the Gaza Strip.
Israel, the occupying Power, continues to build the 
separation  wall,  which  undermines  the  human  rights 
of  hundred  of  thousands  of  Palestinians.  Israel  also 
continues  to  desecrate  Islamic  shrines,  especially  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  while  allowing  extremist  settlers 
to  commit  aggression  against  it  and  those  praying 
there.  It  expels  Muslim  and  Christian  inhabitants  of 
Jerusalem  from  the  city,  giving  their  homes  to  Jewish 
settlers, in an attempt to change the Arab, Muslim and 
Christian  character  of  Jerusalem.  Like  all  Islamic  and 
Arab countries, Qatar condemns those policies, which 
undermine the chances for a comprehensive and lasting 
peace. 
The  Israeli  occupation  authorities  continue  their 
settlement  policy,  paying  absolutely  no  heed  to  the 
calls of the international community to end the policy, 
which undermines the chance for a just peace based on 
two States, the State of Palestine and the State of Israel, 
living  side  by  side.  In  that  respect,  we  reaffirm  that 
the main condition for the success of any negotiations 
between  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  the  Israeli 
occupation authority is an immediate end to settlement 
activities,  and  not  their  mere  suspension,  as  some 
countries call for. 
Israeli policies, whether with respect to Jerusalem, 
illegal  settlements,  the  separation  apartheid  wall, 
detentions  or  the  use  of  force  on  every  occasion, 
confirm  collectively  that  there  is  no  good  will  on 
Israel’s  part,  and  belie  the  security  pretext  that  Israel 
invokes to reject peace based on international law. We 
reiterate  that  measures  taken  by  the  Israeli  authorities 
to  Judaize  Jerusalem  and  to  change  the  Islamic  and 
Arab  character  of  the  holy  city  are  null  and  void  and 
without legal basis.
Israel’s  continued  illegal  practices  against  the 
Palestinian  people  living  under  occupation  exacerbate 
the  security  situation  in  the  area  and  undermine  the 
prospects for a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in 
the region. Qatar reaffirms that there can be no normal 
relations  between  Israel  and  the  Arab  countries  until 
Israel complies with international law and respects the 
principle  of  land  for  peace,  which  has  been  the  basis 
for  the  negotiations  between  the  Palestinians  and  the 
Israelis since the Madrid Conference in 1991.
Qatar  also  affirms  that  the  only  way  to  enable 
upcoming negotiations to reach a successful outcome is 
A/67/PV.46
for  Israel  to  stop  all  settlement  activities  immediately 
and abide by international law. It is morally reprehensible 
that some countries still pressure Palestinians to return 
to  the  negotiating  table,  putting  the  blame  on  them, 
while ignoring the main reason for the failure of every 
attempt to revive negotiations, which is the absence of 
goodwill on the part of Israel and its ongoing f louting 
of all relevant United Nations resolutions by making no 
move towards ending its occupation of Palestine.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the Holy See.
Archbishop Chullikatt (Holy See): Yesterday, the 
General Assembly gave majority approval to resolution 
67/19,  by  which  Palestine  was  accorded  non-member 
observer  State  status  in  the  United  Nations.  The  Holy 
See actively followed the steps that led to this important 
decision, while striving to remain neutral between the 
parties  and  to  act  in  accordance  with  its  nature  and 
universal  mission,  as  well  as  in  consideration  of  its 
specific focus on the ethical dimension of international 
problems.
The Holy See considers, moreover, that yesterday’s 
vote  should  be  placed  in  the  context  of  the  efforts  to 
find  a  definitive  solution,  with  the  support  of  the 
international community, to the question already dealt 
with  in  resolution  181  (II)  of  29  November  1947.  That 
document is the juridical basis for the existence of two 
States,  one  of  which  has  not  materialized  during  the 
subsequent  65  years,  while  the  other  has  already  seen 
the light of day.
On  15  May  2009,  while  leaving  from  Ben  Gurion 
International  Airport  in  Tel  Aviv  at  the  conclusion  of 
his  pilgrimage  to  the  Holy  Land,  Pope  Benedict  XVI 
expressed the following: 
“No  more  bloodshed!  No  more  fighting!  No 
more  terrorism!  No  more  war!  Instead,  let  us 
break  the  vicious  circle  of  violence.  Let  there  be 
lasting peace based on justice; let there be genuine 
reconciliation  and  healing.  Let  it  be  universally 
recognized  that  the  State  of  Israel  has  the  right 
to  exist,  and  to  enjoy  peace  and  security  within 
internationally  agreed  borders.  Let  it  be  likewise 
acknowledged  that  the  Palestinian  people  have  a 
right to a sovereign independent homeland, to live 
with dignity and to travel freely. Let the two-State 
solution become a reality, not remain a dream.”
12-62137
17
A/67/PV.46
In the wake of that appeal, the Holy See’s Secretary 
for  Relations  with  States,  Archbishop  Dominique 
Mamberti,  speaking  before  the  General  Assembly  in 
2011,  expressed  the  hope  that  the  competent  bodies  of 
the  United  Nations  would  adopt  a  decision  that  would 
help  give  concrete  implementation  to  that  goal  (see 
A/66/PV.28).
Yesterday’s  vote  expresses  the  sentiment  of  the 
majority of the international community and recognizes 
a  more  significant  presence  for  Palestine  within  the 
United  Nations.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  the  conviction 
of  the  Holy  See  that  the  result  does  not  constitute  per 
se a sufficient solution to the existing problems in the 
region,  which  in  fact  can  find  an  adequate  response 
only  through  an  effective  commitment  to  building 
peace and stability, through justice and through respect 
for the legitimate aspirations of both the Israelis and the 
Palestinians.
At various times, therefore, the Holy See has invited 
the  leaders  of  both  peoples  to  restart  the  negotiations 
in good faith and to avoid actions or setting conditions 
that  contradict  the  declarations  of  goodwill  and  the 
sincere  search  for  solutions  that  could  become  secure 
foundations  for  a  lasting  peace.  The  Holy  See  has 
also  often  made  urgent  appeals  to  the  international 
community to increase its commitment and encourage 
its creativity by adopting suitable initiatives that could 
help to achieve a lasting peace that respects the rights 
of Israelis and Palestinians. Peace demands courageous 
decisions.
Considering  the  outcome  of  yesterday’s  vote  in 
the  Assembly,  and  to  encourage  the  international 
community,  and  in  particular  the  parties  directly 
concerned,  to  take  concrete  action  aimed  at  achieving 
the  objectives  I  mentioned,  the  Holy  See  welcomes 
resolution  67/19,  whereby  Palestine  has  become  a 
non-member observer State of the United Nations.
This  is  also  a  propitious  occasion  to  recall 
the  common  position  that  the  Holy  See  and  the 
Palestinian  Liberation  Organization  expressed 
in 
the  Basic  Agreement  of  15  February  2000,  with  the 
aim  of  supporting  the  recognition  of  internationally 
guaranteed special status for the city of Jerusalem, and 
in  particular  of  safeguarding  freedom  of  religion  and 
conscience,  Jerusalem’s  identity  and  sacred  character 
as a holy city, and respect for and freedom of access to 
its holy places.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 477 (V), of 1 November 1950, I now give the 
f loor to the observer of the League of Arab States.
Mr.  Fathalla  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  send  a  message 
of congratulations from this rostrum to the Palestinian 
people  on  their  attainment  of  non-member  observer 
State status at the United Nations. That was an historic 
event,  and  it  was  even  more  important  because  the 
General  Assembly  expressed  its  will  on  the  very 
day  that  the  world  celebrated  its  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people.  It  also  highlights  once  more  the 
solidarity  of  the  international  community,  represented 
by the General Assembly, with them. The message sent 
by the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States 
on  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
discussion  on  agenda  item  37,  entitled  “Question  of 
Palestine”.
The  adoption  yesterday  of 
resolution  67/19 
advanced  the  question  of  Palestine,  which  has  now 
become a non-member observer State. This is a serious 
and important step towards rectifying the errors made 
over 65 years of failure, during which the international 
community  has  not  been  able  to  arrive  at  a  just  and 
comprehensive solution for the Palestinian cause. This 
is one of the fundamental issues of the United Nations, 
on which many resolutions have been adopted by all the 
organs and agencies of our international Organization, 
including the General Assembly, .
The recognition of that failure is a ﬁ rst step forward, 
and  the  Assembly  was  able  to  adopt  a  resolution  on  a 
just solution to the Palestine question. However, while 
we  have  not  been  able  to  move  forward  with  a  two-
State  solution,  which  has  always  been  recognized  as 
the ultimate goal, an acknowledgement of the failure to 
implement that solution is the beginning of success, as 
I have said. For that reason, the adoption of resolution 
67/19  was  in  and  of  itself  a  measure  in  the  process  of 
implementing a two-State solution in its recognition of 
Palestine as a non-member observer State in the United 
Nations.
The  resolution  rectifies  part  of 
the  historic 
injustice  that  Palestinians  have  been  subjected  to,  and 
contributes to the implementation of resolution 181 (II), 
adopted  in  1947.  Subsequent  resolutions  have  recalled 
that  the  solution  must  be  based  on  the  creation  of  two 
States. The resolution lays the legal foundation for and 
18 
12-62137
connection between a people and their territory, within 
the  framework  of  the  legal  concept  of  a  State  whose 
people  have  been  living  on  its  territory  with  no  legal 
link  to  that  territory;  it  has  thus  been  inhabited  by  a 
people without any acknowledgement of the connection 
between it and them.
The  adoption  of  the  resolution  by  the  Assembly 
was  the  culmination  of  the  desire  of  Member  States 
to  continue  to  promote  what  is  right  and  to  ensure 
that  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Organization, 
including  Article  1  of  the  Charter,  come  to  fruition. 
As envisioned by the founders of the Organization, the 
Charter calls for respect for the right of peoples to self-
determination.
The  upgraded  status  of  Palestine,  as  promoted 
by  the  resolution,  will  facilitate  negotiations  between 
the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis.  Those  negotiations 
will  take  place  between  two  States  recognized  by 
the  United  Nations,  and  not  between  a  State  and  an 
Authority. Those two States will be accountable to the 
international  community,  represented  by  the  United 
Nations  within  the  framework  of  the  principle  of 
international responsibility and in conformity with the 
provisions of international law. 
A/67/PV.46
 To conclude, I reiterate that today is a new day for 
finding a just, comprehensive and timely solution to the 
question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  of  the  Middle 
East  as  a  whole,  so  that  its  peoples  can  live  in  peace 
and  security  and  realize  their  aspirations.  The  United 
Nations should take as a point of departure the resolution 
adopted  yesterday,  so  that  Palestine  can  become  an 
independent sovereign State on its own territory, living 
in peace within internationally recognized borders with 
its  neighbours.  That  will  enable  Palestine  to  join  as  a 
full  f ledged  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  alongside 
all  of  the  neighbouring  countries  of  its  region  and 
throughout the world.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
informed 
Members  are 
that  action  on  draft 
resolutions  A/67/L.17,  A/67/L.18,  A/67/L.19  and 
A/67/L.20  will  be  taken  immediately  after  the  debate 
on agenda item 36. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 37.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
12-62137
19
