United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
15th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 September 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.15
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Beck (Palau), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Ralph E. Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines.
Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves, 
Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
My country extends heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  assumption  of  his  responsibilities  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  crucially 
important  session.  We  also  express  our  appreciation 
to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of 
the  State  of  Qatar,  who  left  an  indelible  mark  on  the 
General Assembly.
We meet again in the quest for development, equity, 
and  peace.  Last  year,  our  debate  took  place  against 
the  backdrop  of  rapid,  often  violent,  geopolitical 
change, as well as continuing economic instability and 
uncertainty. Last year’s general debate, though marked 
by winds of change and clouds of uncertainty, was not 
without hope and optimism. Member States anticipated 
meaningful  progress  at  the  United  Nations  Summit 
on  Sustainable  Development.  We  predicted  a  robust 
and  legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty.  We  embraced 
popular,  home-grown  calls  for  political  change.  And 
we  scanned  the  economic  horizon  for  encouraging 
signs of recovery and growth.
Today,  global  optimism,  though  still  enduringly 
present,  is  in  scarcer  supply,  as  the  international 
community  has  encountered  the  challenges  of  a  new 
world and found itself wanting. Our global structures, 
including  the  United  Nations,  are  faced  with  changes 
of a scope, scale and rapidity that substantially outpace 
our  ability  to  react,  partly  exceed  our  capacity  to 
respond,  and  demand  a  level  of  courage,  principle 
and  decisiveness  that  is  not  sufficiently  matched  by 
our political will. Today, we are not merely spectators 
watching  a  moment  of  global  change;  rather,  we  are 
nations in the valley of decision, confronted with two 
questions  that  we  must  answer:  “What  is  our  vision 
of  tomorrow’s  post-crisis,  post-conf lict  world?”  And: 
“How, collectively, can we achieve that vision?”
Our  avoidance  of  these  fundamental  questions 
threatens  to  set  our  Assembly  adrift  and  rudderless, 
shirking  responsibility  and  afraid  of  action.  We  must 
resist the temptation to bury our heads in the shifting 
sands  of  meaningless  resolutions  while  we  studiously 
disregard our imperative quest for a unifying principle 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52396 (E)
*1252396*
A/67/PV.15
and  purpose.  To  succumb  to  such  a  temptation  would 
be  to  condemn  this  institution  to  a  future  marked  not 
by  new  ideas,  but  new  rationalizations.  Our  noble 
battle of ideas will descend into a battalion of excuses; 
of  blame-sharing  and  buck-passing;  of  soundbites 
disguised  as  insights.  Such  a  future,  which  we  are 
on  a  path  to  realize,  would  do  a  disservice  to  our 
respective States, our international obligations, and the 
proud history of the United Nations. We would, by our 
impotence,  acquiesce  to  the  possible  obsolescence  of 
this Organization, as peoples and Governments would, 
justifiably  or  not,  turn  elsewhere  for  the  solutions  to 
global  challenges.  Such  a  future  can  and  must  be 
vigorously  avoided,  in  the  interest  of  our  peoples’ 
collective advancement and humanity.
In  our  Caribbean  region,  the  global  economic  and 
financial  meltdown  continues  to  be  felt  most  acutely 
by the poor, the youth, the elderly and the vulnerable, 
who  bear  no  responsibility  for  the  rampant  financial 
speculation  and  unregulated  movement  of  capital  that 
spurred the crisis. Today, four years into an externally 
imposed  meltdown  which  has  produced  negative  or 
marginal  growth  across  the  Caribbean,  our  region  is 
forced  to  contemplate  the  implications  of  a  potential 
“lost decade” of development. 
Our  region  is  not  immune  to  the  economic 
pressures  and  fissures  that  have  turned  other  parts  of 
the world into tinderboxes of social unrest and political 
upheaval. Our citizens, who have nobly struggled under 
the weight of externally sourced contraction, austerity 
and  hardship,  are  not  possessed  of  limitless  patience 
or  endurance.  Our  hard-won  development  gains  are  in 
jeopardy, and our settled political stability is in possible 
peril.  The  international  community  cannot  ignore  our 
plight  based  on  a  distorted  calculus  of  middle-income 
status  and  relative  prosperity,  or  on  simplistic, 
even  offensive,  stereotypes  of  Caribbean  paradises. 
Small,  highly  indebted  middle-income  developing 
countries,  like  those  in  the  Caribbean,  which  are 
very  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters  and  international 
economic  convulsions,  have  special  concerns  which 
the  international  community  is  obliged  to  address 
properly, in partnership with the peoples of our region. 
External shocks derived from nature or the workings of 
an  uneven,  casino  capitalism,  are  not  merely  episodic 
to  our  Caribbean;  they  are  a  constant  feature  of  our 
regional economies.
Central 
re-examination  and 
reconfiguration  of  the  existing  economic  apparatus  is 
to  our  urgent 
the recognition that our modern context and individual 
national  characteristics  do  not  lend  themselves  to 
strict  classical  or  Keynesian  economic  prescriptions 
or  their  variants.  In  the  case  of  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines  and  our  Caribbean  neighbours,  our 
peculiarities of small size, openness and vulnerability 
require  uniquely  home-grown  economic  policies  that 
are rooted not in any prevailing ideology or fashionable 
theories  from  outside,  but  in  a  sensible,  f lexible  and 
focused practicality. 
We have little interest in esoteric arguments about 
the  role  of  the  State  in  economic  activity,  because, 
historically,  our  national  Governments  have  been  a 
force  for  good  in  the  stimulation,  diversification  and 
growth  of  our  economies  in  tandem  with  the  private 
and  cooperative  sectors.  While  we  welcome  and 
solicit  assistance  and  consultations  with  the  relevant 
institutions  and  organizations,  such  consultations 
ought  to  be  free  of  the  type  of  textbook  orthodoxies 
or  formulaic  prescriptions  that  are  inapplicable  to  our 
times  and  circumstances.  Our  path  to  development 
must be our own.
in 
the 
resources  allocated 
The cause of development, as a goal and as a right, 
has  suffered  from  the  neglect  of  the  international 
community 
recent,  post-crisis  years.  Within 
the  United  Nations  system,  the  current  budget  for 
peacekeeping  dwarfs 
to 
fostering development, even as we recognize that most 
conf lict  is  rooted  in  underdevelopment.  The  age-old 
pledges  of  development  assistance  have  been  skirted, 
and  their  fulfilment  delayed,  by  States  that  cite  their 
own  struggles  with  the  global  economic  fallout.  As  a 
result,  even  as  we  contemplate  post-2015  sustainable 
development  goals,  it  is  painfully  apparent  that  the 
Millennium Development Goals will not be met across 
large swaths of our planet. 
The  poor,  especially  in  Asia,  Africa,  the  Pacific, 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  can  hardly  be 
expected  to  wait  any  longer  for  relief  and  sustainable 
development.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is 
thankful  to  the  nations  and  organizations  that  have 
found  it  possible  to  continue  extending  their  hand  in 
cooperation with our people, even in difficult economic 
times.  The  support  and  assistance  of  those  States  and 
organizations  is  a  mark  of  their  friendship,  solidarity 
and strong global citizenship.
The prolonged global economic uncertainties have 
propelled  the  international  economy  into  a  dangerous 
new  phase.  Even  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
2 
12-52396
has  so  concluded.  In  the  process,  the  crisis  has  found 
the  principals  wanting,  even  unaware  of  the  extant 
condition,  with  no  clear  idea  as  to  the  way  forward. 
In  both  economics  and  politics,  the  ancien  régime  is 
passing.  The  discerning  acknowledge  that  a  transition 
is  at  large,  but  immense  challenges  arise  immediately 
from  at  least  four  pertinent  queries:  first,  is  the 
transition  manageable,  or  must  it  be  played  out  in  a 
chaotic manner? Secondly, assuming that the transition 
is  manageable,  how  is  it  to  be  managed  in  the  most 
efficacious way, and in whose interest? Thirdly, is this 
transition  a  dead  end?  And  fourthly,  given  that  the 
transition itself, like all human conditions, is dynamic, 
what is the destination of this transition?
It is a truism that men and women make history not 
in  circumstances  of  their  own  choosing,  but  in  those 
which they meet, which they inherit, and which emerge 
on their watch. Noteworthy is the fact that the histories 
of  nations  and  the  ghosts  of  the  dead  weigh  heavily 
on  the  brains  of  the  living.  Often  unacknowledged  is 
the  abiding  truth  that  each  people  possesses  its  own 
history, its own legitimacy, its own nobility and its own 
trajectory for further ennoblement.
Unfortunately, the power of some to define things 
globally  distorts  these  elemental  truths.  It  is  well 
known that the lion’s view of history does not coincide 
with  that  of  the  gazelle  or  the  lamb;  the  elephant  and 
the ant do not see things eye to eye. But human beings 
possess  the  capacity  to  go  beyond  the  limitations  of 
the  animal  kingdom.  That  is  fundamentally  why  we 
have  gathered  together  under  the  rubric  of  the  United 
Nations, with a Charter so uplifting and magnificent in 
its ideals and purposes as to constitute the best hope for 
the  human  race.  Arrogant  and  unbridled  power,  from 
whatever  source,  is  thus  to  be  contained.  It  is  always 
wise to remember that the greatest exercise of power is 
restraint in the use of that power. That is true within and 
between nations. It is the surest way for the malevolent 
across the globe to be accorded no space to f lourish and 
to be defeated.
It is within this context that the text of a prosperous, 
safe,  independent  Palestinian  State  must  be  written 
alongside  a  secure  State  of  Israel,  living  in  friendship 
and non-belligerence. This is a matter of grave urgency; 
the  injustice  meted  out  to  Palestine  must  end  now. 
So,  too,  must  continue  our  global  quest  for  interfaith 
dialogue  and  an  alliance  of  civilizations,  initiated  by 
the Governments of Qatar and Turkey, respectively. 
A/67/PV.15
Similarly, let us not forget our pledge of solidarity 
to  Haiti.  Likewise,  reparations  for  the  genocides 
committed against indigenous peoples and for African 
slavery must continue to be pursued vigorously on our 
international agenda.
All  of  that  and  more  is  achievable  by  the  United 
Nations.  Thus,  our  collective  will  can  bear  fruit 
abundantly  through  the  strengths  and  possibilities  of 
wise leadership, peaceful dialogue among and between 
sovereign  nations, 
international  cooperation  and 
regional compacts.
to 
home, 
our 
Closer 
developmental 
and 
political  partnerships  increasingly  ref lect  a  spirit  of 
strengthened  regional  integration  and  greater  South-
South  cooperation.  In  the  immediate  post-colonial 
phase  of  our  national  development,  the  nations  of  the 
Caribbean and Latin America often have had stronger 
and closer relationships with distant colonial Powers and 
developed nations than we did with the countries in our 
immediate  neighbourhood.  After  centuries  of  colonial 
conquest,  settlement  and  exploitation,  our  deepening 
bonds of friendship, cooperation and integration within 
the  Caribbean  and  Latin  America  are  a  fundamental 
manifestation of our States’ growing independence and 
political maturity.
Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines  enjoys 
membership  in  a  number  of  interconnected  circles 
of  regional  integration.  The  Organization  of  Eastern 
Caribbean States (OECS) is in an economic union with 
a shared currency, judiciary and nascent representative 
Assembly.  The  15-member  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  also  furthers  the  cause  of  Caribbean 
integration with important implications for trade and the 
free movement of people. Our State is a proud member 
of  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America,  which  has  created  bonds  of  socioeconomic 
solidarity  and  cooperation  among  Caribbean,  Central 
and  South  American  States.  The  Caribbean  Forum  of 
African, Caribbean and Pacific States, the Association 
of  Caribbean  States,  and  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  are  also  home-grown 
manifestations of our peoples’ desire to forge linkages 
and partnerships with our regional brothers and sisters.
The  strength  and  genuine  cohesion  of  those 
growing  regional  integration  initiatives  is  built  on  a 
solid  foundation  of  shared  experiences  and  values, 
which  deserve  the  support  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
members of OECS and CARICOM are bastions of good 
governance,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  we 
12-52396
3
A/67/PV.15
share those experiences and aspirations with our South 
and  Central  American  sister  States,  which  have  also 
established unshakeable foundations of democracy and 
good governance after fitful periods of political unrest 
and  foreign  interference  in  the  past.  The  upcoming 
7  October  presidential  election  in  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  is  but  one  example  of  the 
manner in which that country and the region continue 
to  institutionalize  popular,  participatory  democratic 
systems that ref lect and respect the will of the people.
As  we  strengthen  relations  with  our  immediate 
neighbours,  we  remain  deeply  committed  to  our 
historical  ties  and  traditional  friendships.  The  bonds 
that we share with our friends in Europe, Canada, the 
United  Kingdom  and  the  United  States  are  as  strong 
as  they  are  mutually  beneficial.  As  a  multi-island 
nation, the people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
have  always  been  highly  migratory  and  outward-
looking  —  so  much  so  that  even  the  words  of  our 
national  anthem  memorialize  our  proclivity  for  travel 
to  distant  lands.  Many  of  the  largest  and  most  vibrant 
cities of our nationals exist not in Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, but in major metropolitan hubs, including 
those 
in  Brooklyn,  Toronto  and  London.  Those 
productive and hard-working centres, and many others, 
have  immeasurably  enriched  their  adopted  homes  and 
provided  needed  remittances  to  relatives  in  the  land 
of  their  birth.  We  remain  grateful  to  those  friendly 
States  that  have  opened  their  doors  and  embrace  to 
our  migrants,  and  we  view  the  ongoing,  hassle-free 
movement  of  our  peoples  back  and  forth  as  the  truest 
testament of our friendship and solidarity.
The recent increase in regional conf licts and unrest 
around  the  world  cannot  be  ignored.  The  hopefulness 
and  idealistic  optimism  that  were  much  in  evidence 
during  the  early  days  of  the  so-called  Arab  Spring 
have  been  replaced  by  a  cynical  fatalism  and  rampant 
opportunism  in  many  important  quarters.  In  other 
continents,  some  nations  f lirt  with  border  wars,  while 
others  grapple  with  insidious  and  barbaric  terrorism. 
In the midst of the global upheaval, we have witnessed 
the aggressive re-emergence of those that would seek to 
reshape the world in their own image and to their own 
purposes. Would-be interventionists, unilateralists and 
hegemons,  both  new  and  old,  have  rushed  to  fill  and 
exploit political vacuums, to settle ancient grudges and 
to strengthen their grip on global or regional power.
It  is  a  pattern  that  predates  colonialism  and  the 
Cold  War  and  one  that  once  again  brings  into  focus 
many of the United Nations founding principles. Those 
principles cannot be ignored, reinterpreted or sacrificed 
on  the  altar  of  poll-driven  political  expediency  and 
electoral  ambition.  We  have  bound  ourselves  together 
in  the  solemn  goal  of  promoting  peace,  not  fostering 
wars; of self-determination, not unilateral intervention; 
of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, 
not  the  callous  disregard  for  the  well-being  of  our 
fellow human beings. To depart from those principles, 
explicitly  or  by  implication,  would  be  to  abandon  the 
better angels of our nature and to succumb to the forces 
that made this institution necessary in the first place.
The war against global terror is real, and it is being 
fought by all responsible States on multiple fronts. Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  firm  and  unequivocal 
in  its  rejection  of  all  forms  of  terrorist  activity  and 
its  revulsion  at  the  methods  and  twisted  logic  that 
accompany  that  barbarism.  Our  friends  and  brothers 
in the United States of America are unfortunately and 
disproportionately  targeted  by  those  repulsive  killers, 
most  recently  in  the  deeply  saddening  murder  of 
Christopher Stevens, the United States Ambassador to 
Libya, and some of his staff. We support unreservedly 
the  determination  of  the  United  States  to  bring 
Ambassador Stevens’s killers to justice.
At the same time, we are baff led by the continued 
reference to the Republic of Cuba in some quarters as 
a State sponsor of terrorism. The undisputed evidence 
is  that  Cuba  neither  supports  nor  harbours  terrorists 
of  any  type.  Indeed,  the  Cuban  Government,  itself  a 
victim of orchestrated terror campaigns, has cooperated 
on  numerous  occasions  with  the  Governments  of  both 
allies  and  ideological  opponents  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  It  has  also  played  a  useful  and  constructive 
role  in  facilitating  peace  talks  between  Governments 
and armed rebel groups in Latin America. Those facts 
are  not  contested.  Therefore,  to  label  Cuba  a  State 
sponsor of terrorism, in any context, is to cheapen our 
shared global struggle against that insidious scourge.
In his famous 1960 speech to the General Assembly, 
then President Fidel Castro observed that hysteria could 
go  to  any  length  and  was  capable  of  making  the  most 
far-fetched  and  absurd  claims.  That  particular  absurd 
and far-fetched claim, like the absurdity that undergirds 
the continued economic embargo against Cuba, is one 
that is best abandoned.
The fascinating rapprochement unfolding across the 
Taiwan straits between the People’s Republic of China 
and  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  lends  practical 
4 
12-52396
A/67/PV.15
weight to the reasonable and overdue call for Taiwan’s 
meaningful  participation  in  the  specialized  agencies 
of  the  United  Nations.  My  country  and  several  others 
in the Caribbean and Central America bear witness to 
Taiwan’s  principled  conduct  of  its  intergovernmental 
relations.  Surely  the  time  has  now  come  for  this 
exemplar of the magnificent Chinese civilization to be 
permitted to participate in the work of various agencies 
of this world body.
Allow  me  to  turn  to  certain  existential  challenges 
facing  my  country,  my  region,  and  the  world.  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines is angered by the continuing 
and inexcusable failure of the States assembled in this 
Hall  to  move  decisively  towards  a  meaningful  and 
legally  binding  climate  change  treaty.  Entire  nations, 
represented  here  today  as  friends  and  equals,  may 
simply  cease  to  exist  as  a  result  of  our  inaction  and 
political  cowardice.  Other  nations,  including  my  own, 
are  already  the  victims  of  increasingly  intense  and 
frequent storms, hurricanes and weather events. These 
changes  not  only  threaten  our  way  of  life  but  risk 
reversing our recent development progress.
The islands of our planet are at war against climate 
change,  warming  temperatures  and  rising  seas.  That 
war is not a future event, it is a present-day and ongoing 
battle.  As  all  of  us  in  this  Assembly  are  aware,  it  is  a 
war  that  we  are  currently  losing.  The  survival  of  our 
islands is at stake, and the responsibility for immediate 
change  lies  undisputedly  with  those  whose  reckless 
pollution  over  generations  has  led  us  to  the  brink  of 
catastrophe.  In  a  different  time  and  context,  Winston 
Churchill inspired his people with the words “we shall 
fight  on  the  seas  and  oceans...  we  shall  defend  our 
island,  whatever  the  cost  may  be”.  Today,  know  this: 
We  shall  fight  the  rising  seas  and  encroaching  oceans 
and  defend  our  islands’  right  to  exist  at  any  cost.  We 
call  on  all  nations  to  join  us  in  the  fight,  for  that  is  a 
war  that  can  still  be  won.  Our  negotiations  to  arrest 
climate change are not merely some arcane academic or 
diplomatic pursuit, and they cannot be treated as some 
interminable,  run-of-the-mill  United  Nations  process. 
Let us set aside narrow, short-term interests and act as 
we are capable of acting: for the benefit and protection 
of all mankind.
Another existential threat whose solution has fallen 
victim to United Nations paralysis is our common pursuit 
of a global, robust and binding arms trade treaty. In the 
Caribbean, over 70 per cent of homicides are committed 
with  firearms,  a  remarkable  statistic  for  a  region  that 
produces  not  one  single  gun  or  bullet.  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines has a largely unarmed constabulary 
and lacks a standing army, yet we struggle daily against 
an  inf lux  of  illicit  and  untraceable  firearms  that  pose 
a grave threat to our national security and way of life. 
The  producers  of  firearms,  as  well  as  the  source  and 
destination  markets  for  illicit  narcotics,  can  and  must 
cooperate to restrict and regulate the international f low 
of  small  arms,  light  weapons  and  ammunition.  While 
we  have  failed  in  our  initial  attempt  to  forge  an  arms 
trade  treaty,  I  call  on  members  at  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly to redouble their efforts to negotiate 
a binding agreement in this matter before we reconvene 
next September.
This  year  it  is  imperative,  too,  that  the  United 
Nations  continue  its  focused  work  in  the  fight  against 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  the  Caribbean 
Community  has  rightly  placed  at  the  forefront  of  the 
global agenda.
The  people  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
are  strong  and  fiercely  independent.  Ours  is  an 
independence  forged  in  the  heroic  struggles  of  our 
indigenous  and  Garifuna  peoples  against  genocide 
and  hardened  in  the  fires  of  our  resistance  to  slavery, 
indentureship, and colonial and neocolonial domination. 
Our  strength,  independence  and  sovereignty  do  not 
permit  us  to  look  to  the  United  Nations  or  any  other 
country  or  group  of  countries  for  the  solutions  to  our 
own problems and challenges. However, as a small State 
in an interconnected world, we recognize that many of 
the  difficulties  we  face  have  been  born  and  incubated 
beyond  our  national  boundaries.  The  United  Nations 
therefore is our primary multilateral forum to address 
and confront those externally imposed challenges.
My  statement  today  is  not  intended  merely  to 
chronicle the global ills that have befallen Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines.  No.  It  is  a  call  for  principled  and 
practical  global  action  to  address  and  resolve  these 
problems.  To  do  so,  we  stand  ready  to  work  with  the 
President and with all States in this Assembly to effect 
meaningful  change  throughout  our  planet.  As  the 
great  novelist  Ernest  Hemingway  once  wrote,  “Moral 
courage  is  a  rarer  commodity  than  bravery  in  battle 
or  great  intelligence.  Yet  it  is  the  one  essential,  vital 
quality  of  those  who  seek  to  change  a  world  which 
yields most painfully to change”. Today, Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  calls  on  this  body,  and  on  all 
nations assembled here, to harness that essential moral 
courage to produce change in a world whose potential 
12-52396
5
A/67/PV.15
is  limitless,  and  whose  problems  are  soluble.  The 
rhetoric of change and hope may lack the cachet that it 
enjoyed  hitherto,  but  we  still  believe  that  our  peoples 
and  Governments  possess  within  them  the  courage 
and  conviction  collectively  to  change  and  materially 
improve the condition of our nations’ citizens.
Let us at this sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly  establish  conclusively  that  that  faith  is  well 
placed.  We  move  with  our  burdens  from  yesterday. 
We  go  forward  with  our  strengths  and  possibilities 
tomorrow.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Kenny Davis Anthony, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Finance, Economic 
Affairs, Planning and Social Security of 
Saint Lucia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Finance,  Economic  Affairs,  Planning  and  Social 
Security of Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Kenny  Davis  Anthony,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs,  Planning 
and Social Security of Saint Lucia was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His Excellency Mr. Kenny Davis Anthony, 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Finance,  Economic 
Affairs,  Planning  and  Social  Security  of  Saint  Lucia, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Anthony  (Saint  Lucia):  I  would  first  like  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  year’s 
session.  I  also  wish  to  place  on  record  Saint  Lucia’s 
thanks  to  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his 
contribution  as  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth session.
I  would  like  to  underscore  the  words  of  the 
President, of which we should be continually reminded, 
concerning the fact that peace is not merely the absence 
of war. Indeed, poverty and prejudice are the f lint and 
tinder for violent feud and furore. And so we embrace 
your  suggested  theme,  for  while  in  the  Caribbean  we 
generally know peace, we are aware of the real struggle 
of humankind to achieve peace in the face of disaster, 
injustice, inequity and conf lict.
Beyond  this  Hall  lies  a  beautiful  world.  And 
whatever  the  f laws  and  failures  of  mankind,  we  still 
are blessed to be given a world from which we can seek 
life  and  livelihoods.  It  is  difficult  to  imagine  at  times 
that  even  in  the  face  of  turmoil,  decimation  and  acts 
of  brutality  and  calamity,  humankind  has  progressed 
over the millennia. That is what must give us hope and 
confidence  for  the  future:  that  we  have  been  through 
this  before  and  have  come  through  colossal  tragedies, 
unexplainable  disasters,  world  wars  and  famine,  and 
still  we  are  here.  Our  civilization  continues  to  thrive. 
However,  we  can  only  succeed  if  we  recognize  and 
celebrate  our  shared  humanity.  This,  therefore,  must 
be  a  world  that  continuously  affirms  all  human  lives, 
a world that recognizes our collective endowment, that 
celebrates our ingenuity and our enterprise. A world, as 
is said in southern Africa, that is imbued with ubuntu.
Each  year  for  the  past  seven  decades,  we  have  sat 
here as equals, everyone with a voice, everyone with a 
say. Our size, whether defined by geography, population 
or  both,  has  no  relevance,  albeit  only  temporarily  for 
the purposes of this discourse and dialogue. And even 
while some have sat here longer, we can all embrace a 
commonality that is not transient or mutable. But even 
so,  we  can  at  times  forget  that behind  every  country’s 
representative are real people with real lives, who seek 
cherished moments despite their sea of despair.
And  let  there  be  no  doubt  that,  even  when  our 
leaders  come  here  to  speak,  we  will  have,  in  all  our 
own  countries,  differences  of  opinion,  of  philosophy, 
of  faith.  Yet  despite  all  this,  the  beauty  of  democracy 
is  that  we  can  embrace  a  common  pursuit:  the  pursuit 
of  happiness,  prosperity  and  enjoyment  of  life.  Our 
philosophies  should 
that 
pursuit; they should affirm it. Our faiths should never 
tear  this  apart,  they  should  form  and  fashion  souls  of 
compassion, understanding and tolerance.
therefore  never  destroy 
For  our  ancestors,  from  Africa  to  Asia,  from  the 
Arctic to the Amazon, all knew conf lict and what it cost 
in their lives. We know what it costs humankind right 
now. And we should all know that history has repeatedly 
shown us that warfare is not the best way to solve our 
problems. So then do we ignore the bombs and guns if 
6 
12-52396
they are not heard on our streets, in our cities and parks 
and playgrounds? Should the girl in Aleppo or Benghazi 
not be able to share the same opportunities and dreams 
and hopes as a boy in Arlington or Birmingham?
countries alike. The world desperately needs a peaceful 
Middle  East.  We  express  our  hope  for  the  continued 
evolution  of  peaceful  and  consensus  approaches  to 
issues of governance in that area.
A/67/PV.15
No one expects a naive world, with utopian leaders. 
Nor do we suggest that our world will not have conf lict, 
for  disagreement  is  inevitable  in  all  aspects  of  life. 
However,  I  ask  that  we  have  the  courage  to  be  bold 
about  the  world  we  want.  I  ask  that  we  act  when  we 
know we can. I ask that those leaders who hold the seats 
of  higher  authority  always  remember  the  minorities, 
those  who  are  easily  forgotten,  easily  marginalized, 
easily  wiped  out.  There  should  never  be  a  season  for 
injustice, never a season for corruption, never a season 
for  poverty,  never  a  season  for  brutality  and  never  a 
season for torment.
Saint  Lucia 
therefore  welcomes  a  peaceful 
resolution  to  the  conf lict  in  the  Syrian  Republic  and 
an immediate end to what is clearly carnage, a human 
tragedy.  We  continue  to  support  the  efforts  of  the 
Special Envoy and the Secretary-General in this body’s 
efforts to induce the parties to focus on coming to the 
table  for  negotiations,  with  a  view  to  finding  a  path 
towards  a  resolution  of  the  conf lict  that  is  acceptable 
to  the  majority  of  the  people  of  Syria  and  takes  into 
account  the  necessity  of  ensuring  the  welfare  and 
interest of minorities in that State.
We  are,  of  course,  also  very  concerned  about 
the  resort  to  violence  in  the  Middle  East,  aimed  at 
confronting either religious or ideological contentions. 
We condemn all attempts at disparagement of religious 
prophets,  deities,  symbols  or  practices,  and  we  appeal 
for  tolerance  and  understanding.  In  the  same  vein, we 
deplore the brutal murder in Libya of the Ambassador 
of  the  United  States,  and  we  share  that  country’s  pain 
and  anguish.  Religious  intolerance  is  combustible  and 
dangerous and ensnares even those nations far from the 
theatres of conf lict.
Saint  Lucia  is  very  conscious  of  the  active 
attempts  in  the  Middle  East  to  develop  new  systems 
of  governance,  as  recent  systems  appear,  in  some 
countries,  to  have  outlived  their  usefulness  for  the 
majority of their citizens. Apart from our commitment 
to  global  and  regional  peace,  we  must  also  recognize 
that  turbulence  in  the  Middle  East  has  the  undoubted 
effect  of  distorting  the  price  of  the  dominant  global 
commodity,  oil,  and  that  those  distortions  harm  the 
interests and development processes of large and small 
Saint  Lucia  believes  that  all  efforts  to  promote 
peace  and  prosperity  for  everyone,  while  of  course 
protecting the health of our planet, should be embraced. 
The  Government  of  Saint  Lucia  is  well  aware  of  the 
determination  of  the  Chinese  people  to  unify  their 
country, as signalled to the world when China took its 
rightful  place  in  the  United  Nations.  In  that  context, 
Saint  Lucia  welcomes  the  emerging  dialogue  and 
cooperation  between  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
and the Republic of China on Taiwan. Such cross-strait 
dialogue  and  cooperation  will  surely  facilitate  global 
harmony. We look forward to a continued evolution of 
the ongoing peaceful rapprochement among the Chinese 
people as they search to unify their civilization.
Saint  Lucia  also  wishes  to  support  the  calls  for 
Africa to gain its rightful permanent representation on 
the  Security  Council,  as  supported  by  the  Presidents 
of  Mali  and  South  Africa.  As  we  recognize  the  perils 
of  conf lict  and  warfare  in  Africa  so  too  should  we 
recognize the ability of Africa to bring peace to itself. 
The  voice  of  one  billion  people  and  that  of  an  entire 
continent should no longer go unheard.
the  resolution  of 
Saint  Lucia  welcomes 
the 
longstanding dispute in the Sudan, the achievement of 
self-determination  for  the  new  State  of  South  Sudan 
and  its  introduction  into  the  community  of  nations.  It 
is  pleasing  that  that  process  has  occurred  in  a  context 
in  which  the  States  of  the  African  continent  have 
now  themselves  been  creating  new  spaces  in  a  bid  to 
take  advantage  of  the  development  of  the  continent’s 
resources in a changing economic environment.
We 
collaboration 
cannot  have  global 
and 
cooperation, and start anew unless extreme disparities 
are  reduced  or  eliminated.  So  it  is  necessary  to 
determine  the  causes  and  respond  purposefully  in 
tackling  the  inequities  that  exist  in  the  world.  While 
one  of  the  obvious  building  blocks  for  development  is 
that of good governance — political structures that are 
ethical and not fuelled by greed and abuse — and while 
we can strengthen the rule of law, ensure property rights 
and  hold  fair  elections,  those  measures  by  themselves 
do not and cannot secure democracy. While democracy 
has no place for dictators or demigods, it is still rather 
meaningless to a person with no food on the table. The 
12-52396
7
A/67/PV.15
dispossessed  will  have  no  passion  and  no  will.  The 
depressed will not vote, nor will the downtrodden.
We cannot continue to ignore the age-old injustices 
of  slavery,  of  forcing  people  into  labour  and  of 
decimating their culture and identity. Many of us here 
today are the descendants of the survivors of slavery. As 
a part of that recognition, we support the Government 
of  Jamaica  in  calls  for  the  recognition  of  the  impacts 
of the transatlantic slave trade and the need for a frank 
dialogue  on  the  status  of  people  of  African  descent. 
Furthermore,  like  Africa,  we  all  need  the  opportunity 
to trade equally and fairly. We all know that the death 
of the Doha talks was due to the unwillingness of some 
nations  to  relent  on  large-scale  subsidies  on  farming 
and agriculture.
One  of  the  injustices  that  is  a  relic  of  an  era  of 
fear  and  dispute  long  gone  is  the  embargo  imposed 
upon  the  people  of  Cuba,  purely  for  purposes  of 
political  retribution  and  punishment.  I  must  take  this 
opportunity to reiterate the conclusion of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  as  a  whole,  most  recently 
in  December  2011,  that  it  is  time  to  end  the  embargo 
imposed on the Republic of Cuba by the United States. 
Saint  Lucia  is  part  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States  and  wishes  to  pursue  the  fullest 
measure  of  economic  integration  in  the  hemisphere, 
as  an  instrument  of  our  own  economic  growth  and  in 
order to maximize economic and social cooperation in 
the area. Blockades and embargoes, in that context, are 
anachronistic and outmoded. In an era of globalization 
and economic liberalization they cannot be tolerated or 
justified.
Another relic of colonialism is that of our Caribbean 
Community member, Haiti. The suffering of the people 
of Haiti can only be matched by their perseverance. It is 
a country that was tormented into paying compensations 
to its former colonial master. That was an extraordinary 
and crude example of trade loss. Today the world’s first 
black independent country is the Western hemisphere’s 
poorest  nation.  It  is  still  very  much  deserving  of  the 
support of the United Nations in overcoming its recent 
pains  and  indigence  brought  on  by  the  earthquake  of 
12  January  2010.  It  should  not  be  forgotten.  Haiti  is  a 
member of the CARICOM family of nations, and so we 
pay  due  respect  and  regard  to  those  countries  in  our 
hemisphere that came to the support and assistance of 
Haiti in its hour of need.
We  in  the  Caribbean  continue  to  experience  the 
challenge of our skilled population seeking to settle in 
regions  to  the  north,  where  they  are  generally  greeted 
with  open  arms.  Meanwhile,  we  also  have  to  contend 
with  the  reverse  f low  of  guns  which,  owing  to  the 
narcotics trade, is finding its way into our jurisdictions. 
We  cannot  have  internal  peace  in  our  islands  if  our 
young  people  are  too  easily  being  given  guns.  We 
raised the matter as one of great concern to our security 
at the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, 
in April this year. 
It  is  now  clear  that  the  current  policies  to  combat 
the consumption and trafficking of illicit drugs across 
and  within  borders  have  failed,  creating  yet  another 
human  tragedy  of  immense  consequence.  Lives  are 
being lost either to guns or to the consumption of drugs. 
We remain resolute in wanting the whole matter of the 
drug trade to be reviewed. Collectively, we must craft 
new  solutions  to  this  problem.  We  also  wish  to  place 
on  record  our  continued  concern  about  the  practice of 
deporting seasoned criminals back to our small States, 
without  any  regard  for  the  capacity  of  our  internal 
security arrangements.
In all this there is a sobering reality for the leader 
of any small State like Saint Lucia. Even as I have the 
distinction of standing here today, I know that many of 
the decisions that affect our world and my country are 
still made in the capitals of other countries, sometimes 
unilaterally and sometimes multilaterally by groups of 
5  or  8  or  20  or  30.  It  is  said  that  80  per  cent  of  the 
world’s trade and economic activity is accounted for by 
20  countries.  I  can  assure  everyone  that  Saint  Lucia, 
indeed all of the Caribbean Basin, lies beyond the limits 
of  that  geopolitical  circle.  With  few  or  no  resources, 
diplomatic  or  otherwise,  Saint  Lucia  can  only  speak 
with its moral courage, authority and convictions.
Small  islands  are  special  places  with  special 
peculiarities that make us both unique and vulnerable. 
Still, we know that, if there is a willingness to support 
their  growth  and  development,  then  small  islands 
can  be  success  stories.  Consider  for  instance  that  our 
15-member  Caribbean  Community  has  a  combined 
population  of  17  million  and  an  economy  of  about 
$89 billion. The United States territory of Puerto Rico, 
itself part of the greater Caribbean, has a gross domestic 
product  of  about  $100  billion.  Those  numbers  clearly 
suggest  that,  given  support  in  trade  and  investment, 
though  we  may  be  small,  our  economies  could  grow. 
They could find sustainability.
8 
12-52396
The Caribbean Community has continuously made 
the point that many small States are deceptively classed 
as  middle-income  merely  on  the  basis  of  per  capita 
income.  A  country  the  size  of  Saint  Lucia,  with  the 
vulnerabilities that we face, should not be subjected to 
such a measuring tool for determining whether a State 
can stand on its own.
For instance, Saint Lucia experienced a category 2 
hurricane  in  2010  that  caused  damage  totalling  nearly 
30  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product.  As  in  the 
case  of  other  small  States  like  ours,  we  were  then 
forced to become even more indebted as we borrowed 
to  replace  infrastructure,  such  as  arterial  roads  and 
bridges,  without  which  our  country’s  economy  would 
have faced further contraction. On top of that, we were 
further  impacted  by  unilateral  domestic  measures 
which,  showing  insensitivity  to  such  matters  as  our 
dependence  on  tourism,  some  major  developed  States 
implemented, making us an even less desirable tourist 
destination. 
Other 
islands 
that  are  highly  dependent  on 
international  financial  services  are  now  suffering  as 
a  result  of  the  attempts  by  some  States  to  sully  their 
reputations.  Though  we  live  in  a  beautiful  part  of 
the  world,  the  reduction  of  foreign  direct  investment 
f lows due to the global economic crisis, and the recent 
announcement by the World Trade Organization that it 
has cut its forecast for global trade growth from 3.7 per 
cent to 2.5 per cent, can cause the outlook to look grim.
This means that development cannot be just about 
assistance  and  that  small  States  require  there  to  be 
some fairness and balance in the world economic space. 
From the point of view of the developing countries, the 
collapse of the Doha Round was a disappointing portent 
of the difficult times to come in the discussions between 
developed  and  developing  countries.  This  trend  was 
typified in our hemisphere by the lack of progress in the 
initiative for a free trade area of the Americas. At the 
same time, however, there were increasing indications 
of  the  emergence  of  countries  in  Asia,  Africa  and  the 
Far East as competitors in global economic competition.
We  look  to  a  future  in  which  the  United  Nations 
and other global institutions become more targeted and 
differentiated  in  their  interventions  and  policies.  We 
look to a world in which the Millennium Development 
Goals  are  realized  and  in  which  the  international 
community  crafts  a  new  post-2015  strategy  to  tackle 
A/67/PV.15
the major impediments to growth as well as to promote 
the major creators of wealth and prosperity.
A  major  issue  is,  of  course,  climate  change.  As 
expressed  in  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States and in the Global Conference on the Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States held in 
Barbados in 1994, small States are committed to seeing 
action taken on climate change and tangible support for 
the requisite adaptations and interventions needed at all 
levels.
Within  the  Caribbean  Community,  the  Liliendaal 
Declaration  issued  by  Heads  of  Government  in  2009 
encapsulated our concerns as small island States subject 
to  major  dislocation  as  a  consequence  of  the  threat  of 
climate change. It notes that
“[the  region’s]  efforts  to  promote  sustainable 
development  and  to  achieve  the  internationally 
agreed 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  are 
under severe threat from the devastating effects of 
climate change and sea-level rise.”
development 
including 
goals, 
In  particular,  it  notes  the  “increasingly  frequent  and 
intense  extreme  weather  events”  that  have  resulted 
in  severe  damage  to  the  region’s  resources  and 
socio-economic base, and it emphasizes that 
“dangerous climate change is already occurring in 
all Small Islands and Low-lying Coastal Developing 
States (SIDS) regions, including the Caribbean, and 
that many SIDS will cease to exist without urgent, 
ambitious  and  decisive  action  by  the  international 
community”. 
Saint  Lucia  is  therefore  in  full  support  of  the 
conclusions  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development  in Brazil on the challenges and 
potential solutions to the climate crisis and interrelated 
factors, which continue to inhibit the achievement of a 
sustainable world capable of facilitating the activities of 
all countries, large and small. We are comforted by the 
words of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that we will 
secure  a  legally  binding  agreement  to  tackle  climate 
change by 2015. With climate change, we cannot afford 
any unfinished business, for there is but one world. We 
also  hope  that  there  will  be  a  strong  commitment  to 
technology transfer and building local human capacity 
to deal with climate change and attendant disasters.
12-52396
9
A/67/PV.15
Saint Lucia looks forward to the President’s tenure 
in  directing  the  work  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  as  one  in  which  the  upsurge  of 
conf licts now characterizing our globe will be subjected 
to meaningful deliberations among our Member States. 
Our  concern  as  small  countries  is  that  persistent 
conf licts  in  respect  of  issues  and  problems  currently 
plaguing  various  regions  of  the  globe  can  serve  to 
distract our United Nations from devoting both attention 
and resources to persisting with solutions to the serious 
problems  of  economic  transition  and  adjustment  now 
characterizing  international  economic  relations  in 
particular.  In  the  cacophony  of  regional  conf licts  that 
inevitably  draw  the  attention  and  involvement  of  the 
major  Powers,  the  problem  of  the  survival  of  small 
countries  in  the  environment  of  larger  States  has 
become more and more intractable.
We  in  Saint  Lucia,  as  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community, look forward to an enhanced cooperation 
with  the  countries  of  a  continent  in  which  a  large 
proportion  of  our  population  finds  its  ancestry.  We 
believe that it is possible to pursue this process through 
the  United  Nations  development  institutions  in  our 
sphere  and  on  the  African  continent,  and  we  propose 
that this be done.
As  is  now  well  known,  the  traditional  economic 
relations  under  the  auspices  of  the  Commonwealth 
system  and 
the  African,  Pacific  and  Caribbean 
institutional  relationships  in  the  context  of  our  trade 
with Europe are diminishing. We look forward to new 
avenues  of  relationships,  a  task  in  which  the  United 
Nations can be of great assistance to us.
I  wish  to  extend  to  the  President  the  best  wishes 
and  support  of  my  country  and  delegation  for  success 
in his task over the coming year.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs,  Planning  and  Social 
Security  of  Saint  Lucia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Kenny  Davis  Anthony,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs,  Planning 
and  Social  Security  of  Saint  Lucia,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Lyonchoen Jigmi Yoezer 
Thinley, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Bhutan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Bhutan.
Mr.  Lyonchoen  Jigmi  Yoezer  Thinley,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  was  escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Lyonchoen Jigmi Yoezer 
Thinley, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Thinley  (Bhutan):  As  with  most  sessions  of 
the  General  Assembly,  we  are  sharing,  yet  again,  our 
common fears and frustrations in a world that is going 
wrong.  We  have  no  stories,  only  f leeting  moments, 
with  which  to  fill  our  sinking  hearts  with  hope  in  a 
near or distant future. Ours is a narrative of mounting 
challenges and doubts. Deep in our hearts, we know that 
our very survival on this fragile planet is under threat. 
Yet, we share no common vision and fail to think and 
act in concert and with faith. And so we find ourselves 
being overwhelmed by the forces that our irresponsible 
and discordant actions have unleashed. All that we have 
achieved  individually,  as  nations,  as  regions  and  as  a 
species,  faces  the  threat  of  loss  and  reversal.  As  we 
argue and falter, the world we have built is falling apart.
Climate is changing and ecosystems are dying. The 
growing extractive industry spurred by consumerism is 
exhausting our natural resources, and conf licts are rising 
in number and more are looming on the horizon. Food 
and  energy  are  becoming  costlier,  thereby  deepening 
poverty,  inequality  and  discontent.  Economies  are 
unravelling;    jobs  and  security  are  being  lost.  For  too 
many,  basic  human  rights  and  dignity  remain  beyond 
reach, and the relevance of Governments and States is 
in question. Families and communities are losing their 
resilience, and society is crumbling.
I  have  reminded  the  Assembly  each  year  that  the 
solutions  we  speak  of  and  the  measures  we  take  to 
meet  all  these  challenges  and  many  others  plaguing 
mankind are of the kind that address the symptoms but 
aggravate the deeper malaise. We are discovering that 
our  problems  —  be  they  economic,  social,  ecological 
or  even  political  —  are  interconnected  and  rooted  in 
10 
12-52396
the  folly  of  mankind’s  pursuit  of  the  wrong  ends  in 
wrongful ways.
Although  the  United  Nations  has  been  a  house  of 
gloom in recent years, it does have its shining moments, 
projecting rays of hope. The Secretary-General referred 
to some of these in his address that focused on sounding 
the  alarm  about  our  direction  as  a  human  family.  One 
such moment came when this great body resolved that 
it was time to accept human well-being and happiness 
as  a  developmental  goal  binding  all  of  humankind 
with  a  common  vision  and  pursuit,  and  that  it  should 
therefore  bring  about  a  holistic,  sustainable  and 
inclusive approach to development. That determination 
caused my country to host a high-level meeting here at 
the United Nations, which brought together more than 
800 participants from all walks of life and all over the 
world. I was awed, humbled and indeed inspired by the 
phenomenal response to our call. It was a gathering of 
extraordinary minds and concerned citizens, moved by 
the urgent need for change — to blaze a new global path 
to human happiness and the well-being of life on earth. 
Yet  another  moment  came  just  months  ago  when  the 
General Assembly declared 20 March the International 
Day of Happiness, thereby bringing together all human 
beings,  at  least  once  a  year,  to  ref lect  on  the  meaning 
and purpose of life and realign our thoughts and actions.
ago,  40,000 
Three  months 
representatives 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
gathered  for 
Sustainable  Development.  The  outcome  document 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  fell  far  short  of  what  we 
ought  to  have  achieved.  Many  saw  it  as  a  missed 
opportunity.  Not  so  for  my  country  and  people,  who, 
with  minimal  expectations,  came  away  with  cause  for 
hope.  The  agreement  to  develop  universal  sustainable 
development  goals  that  would  integrate  the  economic, 
environmental  and  social  dimensions  of  development 
was  a  substantive  outcome,  consistent  with  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions  and  the  efforts  that  my 
own country is making. My country hopes to participate 
actively  in  this  work  and  sees  it  as  evidence  of  the 
growing convergence in the belief that we need to make 
a break with the past and agree on a collective vision. 
It is our expectation that such sustainable development 
goals will steer the post-2015 international development 
agenda and set humankind on the right course.
What inspired me most at Rio was the indomitable 
spirit of the hundreds of side events, several of which I 
was honoured to participate in. These were organized by 
civil society, grass-roots organizations and the private 
A/67/PV.15
sector.  They  came  to  share  best  practices  and  learn 
from  each  other,  and,  more  important,  to  demonstrate 
that  sustainable  development  is  not  just  an  idle  dream 
but that there are individuals and organizations who are 
breathing  and  living  lives  to  realize  what  is  profound 
and  necessary.  While  many  of  them  went  home 
disappointed by the outcome document, I know it is not 
in their creed to despair. They are the pioneers, taking 
the  lead  where  Governments  fear  to  tread,  and  giving 
courageous expression to humankind’s basic goodness 
and  inherent  wisdom.  They  are  the  torchbearers  of  a 
brave new dawn, and we too must have the wisdom and 
humility to follow their lead.
I am also inspired by the appointment of a high-level 
panel by the Secretary-General to advise on the global 
development  agenda  beyond  2015,  which,  we  note, 
convened its first meeting earlier this week. Moreover, 
the  launch  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Solutions 
Network,  led  by  Jeffrey  Sachs,  is  to  be  welcomed, 
as  is  the  Secretary-General’s  personal  commitment 
to  enriching  the  discourse  on  the  future  of  our  race. 
For  our  part,  I  would  like  to  submit  that  Bhutan  has 
initiated  a  number  of  steps  in  the  same  direction, 
pursuant  to  the  recommendation  issued  at  the  2  April 
High-level Meeting on Well-being and Happiness here 
at the United Nations.
In July, His Majesty the King of Bhutan established 
a  working  group  of  international  experts,  comprising 
over  50  thought  leaders,  to  elaborate  the  details  of 
the  new  proposed  development  paradigm  over  the 
coming  two  years.  Their  work  will  be  made  available 
for  consideration  at  the  sixty-eighth  and  sixty-ninth 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  2013  and  2014. 
Simultaneously,  His  Majesty  the  King  appointed  a 
national  steering  committee  to  guide  and  support  this 
process.
The  working  group  will  elaborate  and  refine  the 
four  themes  of  well-being  and  happiness,  ecological 
sustainability,  fair  distribution,  and  the  efficient  use 
of  resources.  It  will  prepare  detailed  documentation, 
including thorough literature reviews and examinations 
of  existing  best  practices  on  how  the  new  paradigm 
can  work.  They  will  look  at  its  potential  accounting 
and  measurement  systems,  regulatory  and  financial 
mechanisms,  and 
trade,  governance,  and  other 
institutional  arrangements.  We  believe  the  findings 
will  complement  and  contribute  to  the  efforts  being 
undertaken by the Secretary-General’s high-level panel. 
Towards  this  end,  my  Government  also  looks  forward 
12-52396
11
A/67/PV.15
to  the  early  establishment  of  the  intergovernmental 
open working group tasked with designing sustainable 
development  goals,  as  agreed  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio.
Address by Lord Tu’ivakano of Nukunuku, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
Defence, Information and Communication of the 
Kingdom of Tonga
This month, Bhutan enters its forty-second year of 
membership in the United Nations. During this period, 
Bhutan  has  been  a  beneficiary  of  the  international 
community, whose support and generosity have helped 
to bring about tangible improvements in the lives of the 
Bhutanese  people.  In  return,  Bhutan’s  contributions 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  have  been  modest 
but  focused.  We  have  endeavoured  to  demonstrate 
our  dedication  to  the  causes  of  peace,  development 
and  the  rule  of  law.  As  a  responsible  member  of  the 
international  community,  committed  to  the  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, Bhutan 
is  now  prepared  to  engage  directly  in  the  process  of 
building  a  more  secure  world  through  non-permanent 
membership  in  the  Security  Council.  This  we  regard 
not  only  as  a  privilege,  but  also  as  a  responsibility  of 
United Nations membership.
It was in this context that in 1999 Bhutan informed 
the  Asian  Group  of  its  aspiration  to  seek  membership 
in the Security Council for the term 2013-2014. Having 
never held nor sought membership in the Council before, 
we  are  convinced  that  all  States,  regardless  of  size, 
population or level of development, must be permitted 
the  opportunity  to  contribute  by  bringing  diversity  of 
thought, approach and, indeed, their will to the work of 
the Council. As a small State, we have always attached 
the  highest  importance  to  multilateralism  and  the 
primacy of an effective United Nations that serves the 
interests of all its Member States.
The  election  of  non-permanent  members  to  the 
Security  Council  next  month  will,  I  believe,  provide 
the  opportunity  for  the  international  community,  as 
represented  by  all  Member  States,  to  demonstrate  its 
commitment  to  the  fundamental  precept  of  sovereign 
equality as enshrined in the United Nations Charter and 
to the principles of democracy and rotation that give it 
meaning.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Bhutan for the statement he has just made.
Lyonchoen  Jigmi  Yoezer  Thinley,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs,  Defence,  Information  and  Communication  of 
the Kingdom of Tonga.
Lord  Tu’ivakano  of  Nukunuku,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Information 
and Communication of the Kingdom of Tonga, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Lord  Tu’ivakano  of 
Nukunuku,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  Defence,  Information  and  Communication  of 
the Kingdom of Tonga, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Lord  Tu’ivakano  (Tonga):  I  wish  to  convey 
my  sincere  congratulations 
to  President  Jeremić 
on  his  election  to  guide  and  oversee  the  important 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session.  I  must 
also  congratulate  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of  Qatar,  for  his 
recently concluded term as the outgoing President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. During his 
term, he enhanced the profile and work of the General 
Assembly,  and  we  are  pleased  that  his  presidency  has 
decided  to  carry  forward  and  build  upon  the  shared 
theme  of  the  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means.
Our  Organization  continues  to  draw  strength 
from  the  steady  leadership  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  in  facing  on  a  daily  basis,  together  with the 
Secretariat,  the  increasingly  volatile  challenges  and 
fast-evolving crises around the globe with unwavering 
commitment and steadfast determination.
We  remember  those  Organization  personnel  who 
have  fallen  fulfilling  their  duty,  in  the  pursuit  of  our 
collective aspirations as ref lected in the Charter of the 
United Nations.
We  were  pleased  with  the  convening  earlier  this 
week of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels. In all settings and all circumstances, including 
with  respect  to  States  such  as  Tonga,  the  rule  of  law 
12 
12-52396
is  a  core  pillar  and  a  fundamental  component  of  the 
national fabric.
Tongans take great pride in the enduring qualities of 
the 1875 Constitution and the early legal codes of 1839 
and  1850  as  instruments  of  visionary  nation-building 
and, with reform over time, lasting peace and stability. 
They  also  laid  the  foundation  for  setting  Tonga  on  a 
firm  footing  in  the  context  of  international  relations 
with the global powers of the time, and set us on a path 
that ultimately has led to membership in the global body 
of  our  time,  the  United  Nations.  Tonga  was  therefore 
pleased  to  join  other  Member  States  in  adopting  the 
Declaration of the High-level Meeting (resolution 67/1).
To expand and improve the role and impact of the 
rule  of  law  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels  requires  the  expertise  and  technical  assistance 
available from the United Nations system, the relevant 
intergovernmental agencies and interested development 
partners,  so  as  to  be  coordinated,  continuous  and 
coherent.
This week’s outcome is a positive development for 
small jurisdictions such as Tonga in strengthening their 
capacity to address the political, social, economic and 
environmental challenges of our time.
Building  upon  the  Secretary-General’s  historic 
attendance at last year’s meeting of the Pacific Islands 
Forum  (PIF),  a  further  meeting  took  place  this  week, 
for the first time, on the margins of this year’s general 
debate. The important outcome of the meeting provides 
a stronger and regular basis for high-level interaction, 
and  the  meeting  allowed  for  an  exchange  of  views 
on  issues  of  mutual  import  and  concern  between  PIF 
leaders and the Secretary-General.
This  year’s  PIF  meeting  was  hosted  by  the  Cook 
Islands,  and  our  communiqué  gives  proper  focus  to 
issues  important  to  Tonga  and  the  region,  including 
sustainable  development,  climate  change,  the  oceans, 
renewable energy and gender equality.
Tonga,  like  other  small  island  developing  States, 
returned to Rio de Janeiro in June to the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20)  to 
chart a new global course for sustainable development. 
For  many,  if  not  all,  small  island  developing  States, 
that  return  amounted  to  a  reaffirmation  of  the  special 
and particular vulnerabilities, recognized in 1992, that 
make States such as Tonga unique.
A/67/PV.15
With  other  small  island  developing  States,  we  are 
looking to advance, during this session of the General 
Assembly, the agreement reached in Rio on the holding 
in  2014  of  a  Third  International  Conference  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States. That Conference should be hosted in the Pacific 
region.
Against the background of the recent Rio+20 and the 
ongoing efforts to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), such a Conference would represent an 
early  but  timely  moment  for  small  island  developing 
States to take stock of implemented outcomes. In order 
to be successful, the Conference will require the strong 
and  active  participation  of  all  small  island  developing 
States  and  a  strong,  responsive  and  cohesive  United 
Nations system attuned to the issues facing them.
Working  towards  such  a  Conference  will  provide 
a  boost  to  ongoing  national  initiatives  such  as  our 
Tonga strategic development framework and its priority 
objectives for 2011 to 2014.
Tonga joined other States members of the Alliance 
of Small Island States yesterday, under the chairmanship 
of  Nauru,  in  adopting  a  declaration  focused  on  the 
continuing  serious  threat  posed  by  climate  change  to 
the  territorial  integrity,  viability  and  survival  of  all 
small island States.
There  is  an  urgent  need  to  continue  to  address 
the  security  implications  of  climate  change,  including 
the  impact  on  territorial  integrity,  the  frequency  and 
severity of climate-related disasters, the threat to water 
and  food  security,  and  the  forced  displacement  of 
people.
Our  challenge  to  the  international  community, 
and to developed countries in particular, is to take the 
bold  measures  necessary  to  reduce  emissions  of  all 
greenhouse gases to levels that will ensure a viable and 
meaningful  future  for  small  island  developing  States 
such as Tonga. To safeguard the survival of the smallest 
and  most  vulnerable  States  among  us  is  to  safeguard 
a viable future for all States. A rising tide may lift all 
boats, but it will drown us all.
The  coming  meeting  of 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change in Qatar must 
advance the efforts of last year’s Durban Conference to 
bridge differences over key issues, such as those related 
to  the  future  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  climate  finance, 
closing  the  pre-2020  mitigation  ambition  gap  and 
12-52396
13
A/67/PV.15
constructively  addressing  loss  and  damage  associated 
with  the  impact  of  climate  change,  while  bearing  in 
mind  the  cost  of  adaptation  in  developing  countries, 
such as Tonga.
This year’s theme of the Pacific Islands Forum was 
“Large ocean island States — the Pacific challenge”. It 
built upon the positive outcomes of Rio+20 with regard 
to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans 
and  their  marine  environment,  or  what  we  call  the 
blue  economy.  Like  other  Pacific  neighbours,  Tonga’s 
connection  to  its  oceanic  environment  has  a  strong 
historical dimension.
The  ocean  and  its  resources  are  more  than  an 
ancient pathway to a maritime and seafaring past among 
disparate  islands.  They  potentially  now  represent  a 
liquid highway to a more sustainable future for Pacific 
peoples. An eminent Tongan scholar, the late Mr. Epeli 
Hau’ofa, said:
“We should not be defined by the smallness of our 
islands but by the greatness of our oceans. We are 
the sea. We are the ocean. Oceania is us.”
As  custodians  of  the  ocean  and  its  living  and 
non-living  resources,  we  have  long  appreciated  that 
the  health  of  the  oceans  is  critical  to  maintaining  a 
staple  source  of  sustenance  and  livelihood  for  island 
communities.
We  welcome  the  focus  of  Rio+20  on  sustainable 
fisheries  and  national  capacity  development, 
the 
importance  of  access  and  the  role  of  small-scale 
and  artisanal  fisheries  and  women,  and  the  need  for 
concerted  action  to  address  the  vulnerability  of  coral 
reefs and mangroves.
the  Convention, 
As a party to the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, Tonga is actively seeking to implement 
its  obligations  under 
including 
through  the  timely  negotiation  of  maritime  boundary 
delimitation  agreements  with  neighbouring  States; 
effective participation in the work of the International 
Seabed  Authority  and  the  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf;  implementation  of  related 
agreements,  such  as  the  1995  Fish  Stocks  Agreement; 
and  consideration  of  the  potential  development  of 
further  legal  instruments,  within  the  Convention’s 
framework, to ref lect the new realities.
During  this  International  Year  of  Sustainable 
Energy  for  All,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
high-level event this week, which was dedicated in part 
to addressing the continued development of renewable 
energy  sources.  With  like-minded  members  of  the 
Alliance of Small Island States, Tonga will build on the 
Barbados Declaration on Achieving Sustainable Energy 
for All in Small Island Developing States and on Rio+20 
to implement its voluntary commitment to reducing its 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  and  to  improving  energy 
security  through  a  50  per  cent  renewable  energy  mix 
by 2020.
With  the  requisite  financial  resources,  ongoing 
capacity-building,  appropriate  technology  transfers 
and  genuine  partnership  with  dedicated  development 
partners,  such  as  New  Zealand,  Italy,  Japan  and  the 
United  Arab  Emirates,  national  initiatives,  like  the 
Tonga Energy Road Map, will continue to develop and 
provide real benefit for Tongans. We are committed to a 
strong advocacy role on the Council of the International 
Renewable  Energy  Agency  and  to  the  critical  work 
that it does in pursuing a more secure and sustainable 
energy path.
Tonga  joined  the  other  States  members  of  the 
Pacific Islands Forum in adopting the Pacific Leaders 
Gender  Equality  Declaration  as  an  important  part  of 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  communiqué  this  year.  It 
establishes a valuable political platform for investing in 
the empowerment and promotion of women and young 
girls as a vital part of Tongan society and the region’s 
future.
We thank Australia for its investment in the Pacific 
Women  Shaping  Pacific  Development  initiative.  The 
steps taken to promote and protect the interests of Tongan 
women and gender equality include the extension of paid 
maternity leave, within the public service, from one to 
three  months;  Government  approval  of  a  draft  law  on 
violence  against  women  and  children,  which  is  to  be 
tabled  during  the  parliamentary  session;  Government 
approval  of  holding  nationwide  consultations  towards 
consensus  on  ratification  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against 
Women;  the  launch  of  a  national  study  on  domestic 
violence against women; and, most recently, last week’s 
launch of a social welfare scheme for the elderly, that is, 
those over 75 years of age.
Without  genuine  improvement  in  gender  equality, 
Member States will continue to struggle to achieve real 
progress towards meeting their commitments under the 
MDGs and beyond.
14 
12-52396
In closing, on behalf of His Majesty King Tupou VI, 
Queen Nanasipau’u, the royal household, the Government 
and  the  people  of  the  Kingdom  of  Tonga,  I  wish  to 
convey our profound appreciation for the overwhelming 
messages  of  condolence  and  sympathy  from  Member 
States,  the  Secretary-General,  the  Secretariat  and  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  untimely  passing  earlier 
this  year  of  our  much-beloved  King  George  Tupou 
V.  I  acknowledge  in  particular  the  assistance  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  at  that  time.  Though  his 
reign may have been brief, it may yet prove timeless in 
enabling an environment where Tongans now exercise 
greater  electoral  democracy  and  enjoy  a  fully  elected 
Government  and  a  more  representative  Parliament. 
That may be his reign’s most enduring legacy. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Defence,  Information 
and  Communication  of  the  Kingdom  of  Tonga  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Lord  Tu’ivakano  of  Nukunuku,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Information 
and Communication of the Kingdom of Tonga, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Guido Westerwelle, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Federal Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Westerwelle  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Freedom, 
dignity,  self-determination  and  the  hope  of  a  better 
life  were  the  driving  forces  behind  the  movement  for 
change in the Arab world. 
As  Germans,  we  know  from  our  own  bitter 
experience that freedom is not a gift. It has to be won 
and  constantly  defended.  Freedom  is  more  than  just 
freedom of thought. It is freedom to express one’s own 
opinion  and  to  voice  public  criticism.  For  that  reason 
alone,  freedom  is  not  always  comfortable.  The  first 
article  of  the  Basic  Law,  Germany’s  Constitution, 
states  that  human  dignity  shall  be  inviolable.  That 
applies  to  every  single  individual,  regardless  of  their 
origin,  culture,  creed  or  sex.  As  Germans,  we  have 
experienced what it is to lack freedom in the course of 
our  own  history.  We  will  always  stand  by  those  who, 
wherever  they  are  in  the  world,  call  for  freedom  of 
opinion, religion, the press and artistic freedom.
A/67/PV.15
Freedom  has  a  daughter;  it  is  tolerance.  And 
freedom has a son; it is respect, respect for other people, 
respect for what is important to others, respect for what 
is  sacred  to  others.  Freedom  therefore  does  not  mean 
freedom  from  responsibility.  Freedom  always  means 
freedom to shoulder responsibility.
We  understand  the  many  devout  people  who  feel 
wounded  by  the  recent  shameful  anti-Islam  video. 
However,  legitimate  criticism  and  sincere  indignation 
cannot be used to justify acts of violence or destruction. 
Some would have us believe that the burning of embassy 
buildings are proof of a clash of civilizations. We must 
not  allow  ourselves  to  be  deluded  by  such  arguments. 
The  vast  majority  of  people  oppose  violence.  The 
people  who  have  taken  to  the  streets,  as  well  as  their 
political  representatives  gathered  here  in  New  York 
this  week,  have  expressed  that  forcefully.  It  is  not  a 
clash of civilizations. It is a clash within societies and 
civilizations.  It  is  also  a  struggle  for  the  soul  of  the 
movement for change in the Arab world.
It  is  a  struggle  between  open  and  closed  minds, 
between moderates and radicals, between understanding 
and hate. It is a clash between those seeking peace and 
those  prepared  to  resort  to  violence.  The  extremists 
want  to  prevent  the  emergence  of  freedom  by  inciting 
violence. They must not be allowed to succeed.
Germany has taken a stand in that struggle. We will 
continue to expand our support for people in the Arab 
world.  We are not going to turn our backs on them, but 
we will be open to them. Our values and our interests 
compel us to take the side of those around the world who 
are  fighting  peacefully  for  freedom,  dignity  and  self-
determination.  Education  and  work,  investment  and 
growth  —  our  offer  of  a  transformational  partnership 
still stands.
I  will  never  forget  the  Syrian  father  who  held  out 
his emaciated son to me during my visit to the Zaatari 
refugee  camp  in  Jordan.  Such  suffering  renders  us 
speechless,  but  it  also  impels  us  to  act.  To  this  very 
day,  the  Security  Council  has  failed  to  live  up  to  its 
responsibility  for  the  people  in  Syria.  I  express  that 
criticism  with  great  sadness.  The  deadlock  in  the 
Security  Council  must  not  continue.  Every  day,  the 
violence  perpetrated  by  the  Bashar  Al-Assad  regime 
is escalating. The risk of a conf lagration engulfing the 
entire region is growing. Together with our partners and 
the  United  Nations,  we  are  helping  the  many  refugees 
in Syria itself and in neighbouring countries.
12-52396
15
A/67/PV.15
All  Syrians  who  want  their  country  to  have  a 
democratic  and  pluralistic  future  based  on  the  rule 
of  law  must  work  together.  We  support  the  efforts  of 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  Joint  Special  Representative  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States,  to 
find a political approach. Despite the escalating violence 
and  despite  the  deadlock  in  the  Security  Council,  we 
must not stop working on a political solution.
During  the  past  20  months,  the  Arab  League 
has  demonstrated  ever  more  clearly  its  adherence 
to  the  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  welcome  that  and  we  want  to  build  on 
it.  At  Germany’s  initiative,  during  the  last  week  in 
September, the Security Council welcomed intensifying 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League  of  Arab  States  (see  S/PRST/2012/20).  That  is 
an acknowledgement of the Arab League’s constructive 
and positive role.
We also pay tribute to the efforts to gain freedom in 
other parts of the world. As a result of the remarkable 
opening-up process under way in Myanmar, the country 
is  emerging  from  isolation  and  gradually  leaving 
repression behind.
We  criticize  and  strongly  condemn  the  ongoing 
repression in our own neighbourhood, in Belarus.
In many other Asian and African countries, which 
have  struck  out  in  a  new  direction,  we  are  supporting 
political  transformation  by  providing  assistance  for 
economic  and  social  development.  That  is  in  the 
common  interest  of  the  international  community.  For 
there is one thing that becomes ever more apparent, and 
that is that without development, there can be no security 
and without security there can be no development. That 
applies  to  our  engagement  in  Afghanistan,  which  we 
will continue after the withdrawal of combat troops in 
2014.  It  also  applies  to  the  efforts  to  bring  stability  to 
Somalia  and  Yemen,  to  the  Great  Lakes  region  and  to 
the countries of the Sahel.
We  are  very  concerned  by  the  still-unresolved 
dispute  about  Iran’s  nuclear  programme.  Iran  has  still 
not  produced  evidence  of  the  exclusively  peaceful 
nature  of  its  nuclear  programme.  It  has  also  failed  to 
date to provide the transparency that the International 
Atomic Energy Agency has long demanded. So far, the 
talks during the last few months have not made enough 
progress  towards  reaching  a  solution.  The  European 
Union’s  three  plus  three  group  has  put  forward 
proposals for a substantive negotiation process. We still 
await a serious response from Iran. We want a political 
and diplomatic solution. Time is short. Israel’s security 
is  at  stake.  Indeed,  stability  in  the  entire  region  is  at 
stake.  However,  that  is  also  about  averting  the  risk  of 
a  nuclear  arms  race  with  unforeseeable  consequences 
for international security. I call on Iran to stop playing 
for  time.  The  situation  is  serious  indeed,  and  time  is 
running  out.  We  want  a  political  solution,  and  we  are 
putting all our efforts into achieving that goal.
Those challenges must not lead us to lose sight of 
the necessity of a negotiated peace settlement between 
Israel  and  the  Palestinians.  There  is  a  danger  that  the 
goal of a two-State solution, the only solution that can 
reconcile the legitimate interests of the two sides, will 
slip  away.  The  two  sides  must  build  new  trust.  At  the 
same time, they must refrain from doing anything that 
might jeopardize a two-State solution.
Germany’s  foreign  policy  is  a  policy  for  peace. 
Germany’s foreign policy is anchored in Europe. Many 
have been wondering whether Europe can successfully 
manage  its  sovereign  debt  crisis  and  whether  it  will 
continue to play a leading role in the world. The answer 
is an emphatic yes. Europe has a great responsibility in 
the world. And Germany is aware of its responsibility 
for Europe. The way out of the debt crisis is difficult. It 
requires spending discipline, solidarity and growth. We 
will continue down that road. Europe is growing closer 
together.  Europe  is  consolidating.  Europe  will  emerge 
from  the  crisis  stronger  than  ever  before.  Europe  will 
remain a force to be reckoned with as the world’s largest 
donor  of  development  assistance,  as  an  inspiration  for 
peaceful  regional  cooperation,  as  a  pioneer  in  climate 
action and disarmament, as a champion of rules-based 
globalization and as a driving force for United Nations 
reform.
My  country’s  peaceful  unification  more  than  20 
years  ago  also  signified  the  reunification  of  Europe. 
Since then, the world has changed dramatically. Today, 
we  find  ourselves  on  the  threshold  of  a  multipolar 
world.  The  world  with  its  interdependencies  needs  a 
cooperative  order.  It  needs  strong  and  representative 
institutions.  We  will  weaken  the  Security  Council  if 
we  fail  to  adapt  it  to  today’s  world.  Together  with  our 
partners  in  the  G-4  group,  India,  Brazil  and  Japan, 
Germany is prepared to assume greater responsibility.
It  cannot  be  that  Latin  America  and  Africa  have 
no  permanent  seats  on  the  Security  Council  or  that 
dynamic  Asia  has  only  one.  That  does  not  ref lect  the 
16 
12-52396
realities  of  today’s  world,  and  it  definitely  does  not 
ref lect the realities of tomorrow.
The  challenges  are  too  great  for  us  to  simply 
accept  the  status  quo.  The  world  is  not  only  growing 
together;  the  pace  of  change  is  increasing.  We  are 
living  in  an  age  of  breathtaking  change.  That  change 
brings  with  it  risks  and  new  dangers,  as  well  as  new 
uncertainties.  Above  all,  however,  that  change  brings 
with it great opportunities, especially for young people. 
In  this  changing  world  we  need  a  clear  compass,  and 
our  compass  is  freedom.  The  yearning  for  freedom  is 
rooted  in  people’s  hearts  all  over  the  world.  They  are 
our partners in building a better future.
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of 
Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele 
Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Trade  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Malielegaoi  (Samoa):  Samoa  commemorated 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  independence  this  year, 
at  home  and  abroad.  The  Headquarters  of  the  United 
Nations  was  one  of  the  venues,  and  for  good  reason. 
Our  aspirations  to  be  a  sovereign  State  founded  on 
democratic principles, Christian beliefs and our cultural 
values were ably facilitated by the United Nations. New 
Zealand, as the administering Power, was sympathetic 
and  supportive,  which  hastened  the  attainment  of  our 
independence.  Our  people  were  given  the  choice  to 
decide  the  future  of  our  country.  The  United  Nations 
and the administering Power supported the process and 
paved the way. As we also heard from the President of 
the  United  States,  people  everywhere  must  ultimately 
long for the freedom to determine their destiny.
Half  a  century  later,  there  still  remain  territories 
today, even in our Pacific region, where people have not 
A/67/PV.15
been  able  to  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination. 
In  the  case  of  French  Polynesia,  we  encourage  the 
metropolitan Power and the territory’s leadership, with 
the support of the United Nations, to find an amicable 
way to exercise the right of the people of the territory to 
determine their future.
The 
outcome 
of 
document 
the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) provides a blueprint for the 
future  we  want.  It  is  a  future  we  all  signed  on  to,  a 
partnership  of  shared  responsibilities,  commitments 
and  undertakings  among  all  Members,  big  and  small. 
For  all  the  goals  to  be  achieved,  every  country  must 
deliver  on  its  pledges  in  good  faith  and  not  try  to 
negotiate a way out.
For  Samoa,  the  gains  include  the  reaffirmation 
that small island developing States (SIDS) are a special 
case  in  the  area  of  sustainable  development,  owing 
to  their  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities.  But 
acknowledging the vulnerabilities of SIDS without the 
attendant  resources  for  strengthening  their  resilience 
makes  that  achievement  only  a  hollow  victory.  The 
oceans  and  seas  are  resources  that  most  members  of 
our  group  have  access  to.  The  call  to  conserve  and 
harness 
the  marine  biodiversity  beyond  national 
jurisdictions, including taking a decision on developing 
an  international  instrument  under  the  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, is a major achievement, worthy of 
support.
The  decision  to  hold  a  SIDS  review  meeting  in 
2014  is  important  and  timely.  Samoa’s  offer  to  host 
that meeting is a matter of record. Coincidentally, 2014 
holds  special  significance  for  our  country.  Barring 
any  natural  catastrophes,  we  will  graduate  from  the 
category  of 
least-developed  countries  (LDCs)  on 
1 January of that year. That was one of the motives for 
our  bid  to  host  the  SIDS  review  meeting.  We  want  to 
underscore  that,  through  genuine  partnerships  with 
development  partners,  our  small  island  developing 
State, which is also an LDC, has been able to markedly 
raise  our  country’s  socioeconomic  situation  and  our 
people’s  standard  of  living.  It  is  important  that  every 
Member  State  be  afforded  the  opportunity  to  host 
United  Nations  meetings,  and  the  success  of  meetings 
should be measured on the quality of the decisions and 
commitments  agreed  to,  not  merely  on  considerations 
of costs and numbers of participants.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  are 
not  merely  aspirations  of  what  might  be,  but  tangible 
12-52396
17
A/67/PV.15
outcomes of what should be. By their very nature, they 
are  a  restatement  of  our  peoples’  development  needs 
and hopes. Thus for us, the achievement of the MDGs 
by 2015 is not just a matter of pride but one of necessity, 
and we will continue to do everything possible to bring 
about the desired result. Success would also mean that 
we  would  start  the  post-2015  sustainable  development 
goals  framework  at  higher  thresholds,  which  would 
help  spur  greater  effort  to  improve  the  lives  of  more 
and more of our people.
The sustainable development goals that will succeed 
the MDGs are already a major focus of attention in some 
quarters. From Samoa’s perspective, clear, time-bound, 
targeted and measurable global benchmarks are critical. 
We must ensure that the post-2015 development agenda 
builds  on  the  important  progress  made  in  the  MDG 
process  and  is  expanded  to  cover  broader  sustainable 
development  issues,  as  agreed  on  in  Rio.  We  must 
also  ensure  that  the  important  priorities  identified  in 
the outcomes of the 2014 SIDS meeting are integrated 
into the post-2015 global development frameworks and 
comprehensively  addressed  in  order  to  respond  to  the 
needs of SIDS.
Climate change is the world’s most urgent problem, 
requiring  a  decisive  global  response.  It  is  a  challenge 
that  should  unite  and  not  divide  us.  Entrenched 
positions  that  ignore  today’s  realities  and  pursue 
unrelated agendas have no role in our collective effort. 
All countries are affected to varying degrees by climate 
change.  No  one  should  be  detached  or  unconcerned 
about our common plight. We must work together, with 
a sense of urgency and commitment, to address climate 
change  —  today,  not  tomorrow.  It  should  not  be  only 
science  that  recommends  what  we  should  do,  but  also 
our consciences and the political will to follow through. 
We clearly want leaders who view the world as a single 
constituency where everyone works together within the 
limits of their capacity and capability to be part of the 
total solution.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The climate change negotiating process has been a 
long and frustrating journey, especially for small island 
developing  States,  which  contribute  the  least  to  the 
causes  of  climate  change  yet  stand  to  suffer  the  most, 
and  are  least  able  to  effectively  adapt  to  its  adverse 
impacts. Climate change cannot be wished away. Even 
those  countries  that  have  been  in  denial  to  date  must 
surely  now  accept  the  weight  of  scientific  evidence. 
Climate  change,  facilitated  largely  through  human 
activity, poses one of the gravest threats to humankind 
and to the continuation of life in our world as we know 
it today.
Samoa’s  unwavering  support  for  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  work  is  underscored  by  its  12  years  of 
uninterrupted police deployment in service of missions 
in  Liberia,  the  Sudan,  Timor-Leste  and  South  Sudan. 
Our commitment is rooted in our firm belief in the role 
that  United  Nations  peacekeeping  plays  in  helping  to 
eliminate  the  causes  of  conf lict  and  in  bringing  about 
peace  and  stability.  A  peaceful  environment  helps  to 
improve  the  lives  of  those  who  have  been  affected  by 
conf lict and, ultimately, to achieve our common goal of 
peaceful coexistence for our peoples and nations.
We are determined to gradually increase over time 
the  level  and  number  of  our  officers  in  peacekeeping 
duties. Regionally owned and coordinated solutions to 
regional upheavals can be quite effective and successful. 
The  Regional  Assistance  Mission  to  Solomon  Islands, 
under  the  umbrella  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum, 
demonstrates  the  effectiveness  of  that  approach  very 
well, and Samoa will continue to provide strong support 
to regionally owned solutions when required.
Samoa  reaffirms  its  unequivocal  condemnation  of 
terrorism in all its forms. Our continuing determination 
to  work  with  other  Member  States  to  fight  terrorism 
using all possible means is consistent with human rights 
and  the  rule  of  law.  The  horror  of  terrorist  atrocities 
is  a  common  and  almost  daily  occurrence.  Terrorist 
acts committed under whatever pretext or purpose are 
deplorable and morally unjustified. In its various forms 
and  manifestations,  terrorism  is  responsible  for  the 
permanent  scars  of  horror  and  fear  that  have  gripped 
international  attention  in  recent  years.  Those  attacks 
have underlined the fact that when terrorists are able to 
infiltrate national borders, no peoples or countries will 
ever be immune to the threat of terrorist violence. 
So  many 
innocent 
lives  have  been 
lost 
indiscriminately and unceremoniously. More than ever, 
terrorism  is  a  major  threat  that  must  be  confronted 
by  a  collective  international  response  at  the  national, 
regional and international levels. It must be condemned 
in  the  strongest  terms  possible  in  order  to  send  out 
an  unequivocal  message  that  it  is  neither  accepted 
nor  condoned  and  that  perpetrators  should  not  expect 
any  sympathy  for  their  actions.  The  tragic  events  in 
Benghazi  recall  and  underscore  the  importance  of  all 
18 
12-52396
A/67/PV.15
nations working together, including through the United 
Nations, to implement practical and effective measures 
to  provide  for  the  protection,  security  and  safety  of 
diplomatic  and  consular  missions  and  representatives 
worldwide.  Samoa  will  continue 
to  work  with 
like-minded countries towards that goal.
Samoa’s  membership  of  the  United  Nations  is 
grounded  on  the  promise  of  the  hope,  equality  and 
justice that the United Nations offers its Member States, 
irrespective  of  their  economic,  political  or  military 
strength.  States  in  leadership  positions  and  those 
aspiring  to  that  status  must  lead  responsibly  and  by 
example.  Every  Member  State,  irrespective  of  its  size 
or strength, should be able to contribute appropriately 
to decisions and actions of the United Nations in order 
to  make  our  Organization  an  agent  of  change  during 
challenging times. The United Nations continues to play 
an important role in our collective effort to achieve its 
objectives, whether in the areas of peace and security, 
the environment, poverty alleviation, the fight against 
terrorism  and  many  other  challenges  that  threaten  our 
world. 
This week, at the treaty event, I deposited Samoa’s 
instrument of ratification for the Kampala amendments 
to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. We ratified those amendments because we place 
great  faith  in  the  rule  of  law  and  the  vital  protection 
that the law offers to all States, especially to the weak 
and small.
Lately,  serious  disputes  have  arisen  among 
bordering  States,  with  the  potential  to  escalate  into 
confrontation  with  far-reaching  consequences.  We 
would encourage the parties concerned to resolve their 
differences  through  appropriate  peaceful  settlement 
arrangements.
Clearly,  Member  States  can  do  only  so  much. 
We  need  a  committed  Secretariat  that  is  aware  and 
sensitive to the needs of the peoples it exists to serve. 
That  is  why  Samoa  supports  the  Secretary-General’s 
vision  to  create  a  f lexible  and  mobile  professional 
career service to allow for quick and positive responses 
to  the  diverse  demands  of  Member  States.  The  need 
for  the  United  Nations  to  deliver  as  one  entity  cannot 
be  overemphasized.  It  adds  value  and  quality  to  the 
process,  eliminates  waste,  minimizes  duplication,  and 
ensures  that  the  scarce  resources  entrusted  to  its  care 
are used optimally to supplement Member States’ hard-
earned contributions.
The  United  Nations  remains  the  only  viable 
institution  that  draws  all  the  nations  of  our  world 
together. The need to revitalize the General Assembly 
and  reform  the  Security  Council  has  been  obvious  for 
many  years.  In  the  case  of  the  Security  Council,  as 
long as its composition and rules ignore today’s global 
realities, it will continue to struggle for legitimacy and 
strain to effectively carry out its intended tasks, as has 
been witnessed over many years. 
Samoa  remains  firm  in  its  position  that  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership  categories 
of  the  Security  Council  should  be  expanded.  Member 
States with appropriate credentials and the disposition 
to  contribute  to  the  Council’s  work  and  resources 
should be encouraged to apply for membership of that 
important  organ  of  our  Organization.  Importantly,  the 
intergovernmental  process  should  continue  in  earnest 
during the current session to bring finality to an issue 
that has taxed Member States’ patience and endurance 
for over a decade and a half.
If the United Nations is to be truly reformed, we also 
need a strengthened and revitalized General Assembly 
as  the  primary  policy  and  decision-making  organ  of 
the  Organization.  Moreover,  we  encourage  the  efforts 
under way to streamline the work of the different United 
Nations agencies to eliminate the wasting of resources 
and unnecessary duplication of time and effort.
We often congregate around points of commonality, 
finding  legitimacy  and  safety  in  numbers.  It  is 
diversity, however, that has historically ensured human 
adaptability,  resilience  and  true  dynamism.  Our  own 
Pacific  region  is  going  through  a  process  of  maturity, 
where  subregionalism  is  evolving  and  the  uniqueness 
of capacity and comparative advantages are coming to 
the  fore.  The  same  can  be  said  of  our  United  Nations 
family and its dynamic leadership. Diversity can create 
a  platform  for  collective  progress  if,  in  the  words  of 
President Obama, “we ensure that we are strengthened 
by our differences, not defined by them”.
As  we  heard  from  other  leaders,  including  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the  United 
States, it is of critical importance that the Palestinians 
be  allowed  to  realize  their  right  to  a  viable  State  of 
their own, existing alongside a secure and safe Jewish 
State  of  Israel.  That  has  also  been  and  continues  to 
be  Samoa’s  long-standing  position  on  the  issue.  We 
remain hopeful that current efforts to secure a peaceful, 
durable  and  fair  settlement  in  the  Middle  East  will  be 
12-52396
19
A/67/PV.15
successful. All efforts towards that goal rekindle hope 
and  should  be  supported.  A  peace  deal  is  central  to 
providing  conditions  conducive  to  the  achievement  of 
a two-State solution.
We wish the President well as he leads the work of 
our General Assembly. We also wish to place on record 
our appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
the leadership he brings to the work of our Organization, 
and  to  wish  him  success  in  the  discharge  of  his  key 
responsibilities in the challenging times ahead.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish 
the  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
thank 
to 
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis.
Mr. Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Denzil Douglas, Prime 
Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Douglas (Saint Kitts and Nevis): On behalf of 
the Government and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis, I 
extend my sincere congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić 
on his election to the presidency of General Assembly at 
its sixty-seventh session. His task, we know, will be far 
from easy in the light of the wide range of taxing issues 
that will be brought before him. As he embarks on his 
tenure,  it  is  our  hope  that  under  his  astute  leadership, 
the myriad issues that define the work of the Assembly 
will continue to find relevance for all of us.
It is imperative, therefore, that the mobilization of 
commitments  required  to  advance  the  agenda  of  this 
sixty-seventh  session  begin  now.  We  are  aware  that 
the challenges associated with that task are demanding 
and  will  indeed  require  our  focused  attention,  strong 
partnership and visionary leadership if we are to make 
significant  strides  in  an  era  embattled  by  a  plethora 
of  issues  that  threaten  the  realization  of  our  various 
development  goals.  We  have  no  doubt  that  he  will 
provide the degree of attention they so urgently deserve.
I must also at this point, on behalf of my delegation, 
thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for so ably 
presiding over the work of the Assembly during the past 
year.
Our focus this year is on continuing to steadfastly 
promote an environment of peace and security, which are 
the  critical  requirements  for  sustainable  development 
for our peoples. As the geographic distance that divides 
us shrinks into insignificance and becomes increasingly 
reduced  by  our  interdependence  and  partnership,  it  is 
equally  significant  that  we  strive  for  the  effective  and 
lasting settlement of disputes. 
that 
Libya  and  Syria,  of  course,  are  just  two  of  the 
many  cases  that  come  to  mind,  with  the  myriad  and 
multifaceted  questions 
they  raise,  not  only 
regarding  the  advisability  of  intervention,  but  also 
with  reference  to  such  issues  as  the  timing  of  any 
intervention,  the  form  of  any  intervention  and,  of 
course,  the  associated  humanitarian  and  relief-related 
consequences of any such intervention. The complexity 
of those challenges demands a sober redoubling of our 
efforts  and  underscores  the  fact  that  social  upheaval 
and  human  trauma  anywhere  must  indeed  concern  us 
all.
The Security Council must continue to ensure that 
it executes its mandate to enable the institutionalization 
of  a  culture  of  peace  and  security.  Respect  for 
democracy  and  the  democratic  principles  espoused 
by  the  United  Nations  must  inform  the  thrust  of  our 
engagement  as  we  reject  intolerance  for  diversity  and 
embrace peaceful coexistence for all people. I take this 
opportunity to condemn the recent, senseless attack on 
the United States consulate in Libya, which resulted in 
the loss of innocent lives. It must be condemned from 
the highest level.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  grateful  to  be  a  stable, 
socially cohesive nation. On behalf of my Government, 
I would also like to express our deep appreciation to the 
United States of America for its highly valued support, 
in the form of the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, 
offered  to  both  my  country  and  our  Caribbean  region 
in  our  fight  against  drugs  and  criminality.  It  also 
20 
12-52396
addresses  the  issue  of  the  reform  that  is  required  to 
ensure that our youth embrace renewed alternatives to 
lives of unproductivity and look towards a new hope for 
peace  and  prosperity  through  respect  for  human  life. 
That is of great importance to us.  The continuing f low 
of foreign-made small arms into our Caribbean region, 
however,  concerns  us  greatly.  Originating  beyond  our 
shores, those weapons have dire consequences in terms 
both of human life and of the economic stability of our 
nations.
We  are  aware 
that  changing  cultural  values 
are  inf luencing  the  use  of  weapons  by  some  in  our 
nations, and we understand the importance of focused 
and  effective  policing  and  partnership  on  matters 
of  security.  In  that  regard,    we  urge  the  international 
community  to  make  the  production  of  a  much-needed 
and long-overdue arms trade treaty an absolute priority. 
The  interests  of  democratic  nations  everywhere  cry 
out  for  the  establishment  of  international  standards 
and controls governing the illicit f low of conventional 
weapons,  and  I  urge  the  establishment  of  a  dedicated 
secretariat to assist States parties in that regard.
I ask: How can small Caribbean nations be expected 
to  deal  single-handed  with  the  double  misfortune 
of  being  located  between  regions  of  massive  drug 
production and regions of massive drug consumption? 
Small  arms  and  light  weapons  always  follow  illegal 
drugs, and we in the Caribbean are simply not equipped 
to  deal  with  the  externally  created  crime  fallout.  On 
that  point,  I  wish  to  stress  that  before  its  closure,  the 
Barbados branch of the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and  Crime  provided  critical,  hands-on  collaboration 
in  this  high-priority  area  of  fighting  crime.  With 
its  presence  now  having  been  withdrawn,  the  vital 
support that we need simply is not there, leaving us to 
adjust as best we can at precisely the time when drug- 
and  deportee-related  crimes  continue  to  be  a  major 
hemispheric challenge.
While we focus on the well-being of our people, my 
Government  has  strengthened  its  primary  health  care 
with  increased  attention  to  reducing  the  prevalence  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  and  has  updated 
an  implementable  plan  of  action  that  addresses  the 
priorities  in  keeping  with  the  Political  Declaration  on 
NCDs (resolution 66/2, annex). As part of our national 
sensitization mechanism on health-related issues, we are 
institutionalizing a culture of wellness with emphasis on 
healthy lifestyles. Similar responses have been initiated 
at the regional level, as we encourage Member States to 
A/67/PV.15
participate effectively in the multilateral institutions to 
voice our positions on the issue of NCDs. That is why 
the  Caribbean  Community  has  taken  the  lead  on  this 
matter in recent years, with the High-level Meeting of 
the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of 
Non-communicable Diseases. 
Therefore, in the light of the clear nexus between a 
healthy workforce and a nation’s economic potential, I 
urge this body today to move forward to launch a United 
Nations  campaign  to  curb  the  global  toll  of  NCDs  as 
we  move  towards  the  realization  of  our  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  At  the  time  of  last  year’s  High-
level Meeting on NCDs, there was a commitment both 
to  ensuring  that  this  grave  issue  remains  high  on  the 
development agenda and to ensuring concrete action in 
that regard. Hence, the type of global effort previously 
recommended  would  constitute  precisely  the  type  of 
concrete  action  to  which  we  committed  ourselves  one 
year ago.
Any  discussion  of  global  health  must  address  the 
issue of HIV/AIDS, and because our ultimate objective 
must  be  the  complete  eradication  of  that  dreaded 
disease — as opposed to the lifelong management and 
accommodation  of  same  by  millions  of  people  around 
the  globe  —  I  appeal  today  for  a  wise,  determined 
and  discerning  onslaught  against  the  scourge  at  the 
local, national, and international levels by us all. Here 
and  now,  we  must  recommit  ourselves  to  eradicating 
the  stigmatization  of  and  discrimination  against 
people  living  or  associated  with  HIV/AIDS.  The 
abuses  of  human  lives  that  perpetuate  discrimination 
and  stigmatization  must  come  to  an  end.  We  in  the 
Caribbean are committed to achieving exactly that.
I  wish  now  to  address  a  matter  that  is  profoundly 
troubling  to  small  island  States  like  mine.  Whatever 
the  debate  being  waged  internationally  regarding  the 
question  of  climate  change,  and  however  dramatic 
the  rhetorical  jousting  within  various  circles  on  the 
issue,  we  in  the  Caribbean  can  attest  to  the  radical 
climatic shifts that our region has undergone in recent 
decades. Moreover, it is very troubling that the largest 
contributors  of  greenhouse  gases  are  still  not  taking 
responsibility  for  the  increasing  temperatures,  rising 
sea levels, coastal degradation, coral reef bleaching and 
decimation,  infrastructural  damage  and  loss  of  lives 
that their actions have wrought. 
Our peoples, our maritime integrity, our soils and 
our infrastructure are all interrelated contributors to our 
12-52396
21
A/67/PV.15
overall social and economic viability. And the absence 
of corrective and restitutional action on the part of the 
industrialized  nations  involved  is  neither  constructive 
nor understandable in this highly interdependent world. 
The  physical,  mental  and  financial  burdens  that  other 
countries’  energy  usage  has  inf licted  on  countries 
like mine has been enormous, plunging us deeper into 
debt  and  severely  frustrating  our  efforts  to  meet  our 
Millennium Development Goals. 
While a shift to renewable energy will not instantly 
solve  the  myriad  problems  caused  by  a  significantly 
fossil fuel-based global economy, the embrace of green 
energy  will  indeed  help  to  halt  the  intense  downward 
spiral into which our fossil fuel-based economies have 
thrust  our  planet.  And  so  we  strongly  urge  that  green 
energy  be  made  an  absolute  priority  globally.  I  must 
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  visionary 
leadership  and 
financial 
institutions that have committed generously to ensuring 
that high-impact clean energy is utilized globally. 
the  Governments  and 
My  Government  wishes  to  place  on  record  its 
appreciation  to  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan  and  other  development  partners  for 
their  valuable  assistance  to  my  country  in  the  area  of 
renewable  energy,  which  will  positively  impact  our 
energy  cost-reduction  efforts  as  we  move  towards 
realizing a full green economy by 2015 in order to bring 
much-needed financial relief to our people.
The  recently  held  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20)  set  the  stage  for  a 
reconfiguration of the global programme on sustainable 
development, and signaled a new era in the sustainable 
development  agenda  of  the  international  community. 
Two  decades  of  debate  and  deliberation  were 
instrumental  in  our  being  able  to  frame  the  dialogue, 
and envision a path for the two decades ahead of us. If 
we are to even approach the potential of Rio+20, it will 
be  essential  that  we  first  face  up  to,  and  then  break, 
the  strictures  of  indifference  and  narrow  self-interest 
that  have  plagued  us  for  far  too  long.  It  is  therefore 
incumbent upon us and future generations to view our 
responsibilities as parts of an ongoing continuum, with 
each of our efforts benefitting from and building upon 
the work that came before.
and  Nevis 
therefore 
Saint  Kitts 
applauds 
the  decision  to  convene  the  third  United  Nations 
Conference  on 
the  Sustainable  Development  of 
Small  Island  Developing  States  in  2014.  Small  island 
developing States, by virtue of our size and geographic 
profile, are clearly among the world’s most vulnerable 
nations — hence the recognition of our need for special 
attention  where  sustainable  development  is  concerned 
and  the  importance  of  everyone  remembering  the 
absolutely essential nature of special and differentiated 
responsibilities where small island States are concerned. 
I  therefore  urge  that  clear  targets  be  established 
now  so  that  we  can  all  prepare  thoroughly  and  well 
for  the  2014  Conference,  at  which  urgently  needed 
attention  will  be  paid  to  the  ways  in  which  our  own 
vulnerabilities  as  small  developing  States  might  best 
be  reduced.  This  body  can  be  assured  of  our  full 
participation  in  the  process  and  in  the  post-Rio+20 
sustainable development agenda. 
Permit  me  to  point  out,  however,  the  extent  to 
which  the  best-laid  plans  of  countries  like  mine  are 
repeatedly  upended  by  decisions  made  in  nations  far 
beyond  our  shores.  I  mentioned  earlier  the  impact  of 
externally generated carbon emissions on our economic 
prospects. I also discussed the severe national security 
threat posed to our region by foreign-made small arms 
and weapons that have been finding their way into our 
nations. Particularly trying as well, and very troublingly 
and  destabilizing  for  many  countries  throughout  the 
region  —  and  indeed  the  world  at  large  —  has  been 
the global economic crisis that made itself manifest in 
2008, the ramifications of which have been trying and 
testing  regional  economic  planners  to  the  limits  ever 
since.  In  no  way  of  our  making,  that  global  economic 
crisis has severely complicated the task of governance 
in advanced economies and more so in highly indebted 
middle-income  nations  like  mine.  It  has  introduced 
both  new  variables  and  additional  unknowns  to  our 
economic  planning  models,  and  has,  in  a  nutshell, 
thrust upon us a backdrop of global volatility that none 
of us could have anticipated, that none of us welcome, 
and that has created immense difficulties for all of our 
people.
Indeed, Saint Kitts and Nevis was forced to pursue 
a  new  economic  development  programme  involving 
fiscal  balance  and  debt  restructuring,  with  built-in 
social  safety  nets.  The  assistance  of  the  International 
Monetary  Fund,  the World  Bank,  the  European Union 
and our many local, regional and international creditors, 
including the United Kingdom and the United States, as 
members of the Paris Club, have helped us to alleviate the 
severity of the social impact of the economic adjustment 
and  to  restore  confidence  among  our  investors  in  the 
22 
12-52396
economy of Saint Kitts and Nevis. But we continue to 
face significant challenges, especially in relation to the 
attainment of economic growth in the context of a very 
sluggish and uncertain global economy. The mammoth 
challenges  and  difficulties  that  our  small  multi-island 
State faces underscore the need to pay greater attention 
to the issue of special and differentiated responsibilities 
in a rather trying era. It also underscores the need for 
small,  responsible  nations  like  mine  to  have  fair  and 
calm  paths  to  redress  in  our  relations  with  far  larger 
and infinitely more powerful friends and allies.
A few days ago in this very Assembly, the nations 
of  the  world  held  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule 
of Law at the National and International Levels. While 
there  is  often  debate  as  to  the  exact  meaning  of  the 
rule of law, my delegation and the people we represent 
are  happy  to  align  ourselves  with  the  core  principle 
on the rule of law, as distilled by the late Mr. Thomas 
Bingham, Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales. In 
his book The Rule of Law, he stated:
“The core of the existing principle is, I suggest, 
that  all  persons  and  authorities  within  the  state, 
whether  public  or  private,  should  be  bound  by 
and  entitled  to  the  benefit  of  laws  publicly  made, 
taking  effect  (generally)  in  the  future  and  publicly 
administered in the courts.”
Although not comprehensive, in my country’s view 
that represents a solid basis from which to identify the 
essential  elements  of  a  continually  evolving  concept 
and  an  essential  mechanism  for  conf lict  resolution 
and  for  ensuring  respect  for  the  fundamental  rights 
and  freedoms  of  our  people.  I  support  the  call  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  and 
domestic levels.
I make the point because, over our almost 30 years 
of  nationhood,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  studiously 
examined  both  trends  here  at  the  United  Nations  and 
developments throughout the international community 
as we have evaluated our place in the world. Throughout 
that time, we have been faithfully guided by our belief 
in the rule of law. We believe that in the international 
arena,  the  rule  of  law  was  created  to  protect  the 
vulnerable,  like  ours,  and  to  remind  us  of  obligations 
to  our  fellow  human  beings.  We  further  believe  that 
orderly and constructive coexistence requires not only 
citizens, but nations as well to be bound by the rule of 
law. Respect for international law has therefore, for our 
A/67/PV.15
nation,  always  been  our  guiding  force.  My  delegation 
calls  on  all  States  members  of  this  great  body  to 
similarly respect that most sacred pillar of international 
coexistence.
Throughout  the  29  years  of  our  existence  as  a 
sovereign  nation,  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan 
has been a highly valued partner and ally. Throughout 
my  nation,  evidence  of  our  collaborative  efforts 
abound in areas as diverse as agriculture, agritourism, 
green  energy,  information  technology,  community 
development and education, to name just a few. 
In  my  own  nation  or  even  my  region,  however, 
Taiwan’s  unfailing  and  valued  contributions  to  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization,  the  World  Health  Assembly  and  other 
forums  have 
its  outstanding 
credentials  as  a  valued  and  impactful  member  of  the 
global  community.  It  is  only  fitting  and  just  that  all 
remaining  strictures  pertaining  to  Taiwan’s  standing 
among  the  international  community  of  nations  be 
removed. Saint Kitts and Nevis appeals to this body to 
ensure that that will indeed be done.
long  demonstrated 
In  closing,  I  wish  to  stress  here  how  unfortunate 
it  is  that,  yet  again,  the  case  has  to  be  made  for  the 
lifting  of  the  embargo  on  Cuba.  The  embargo  is  not, 
as  some  may  wish  to  suggest,  a  matter  of  merely 
bilateral  import.  Not  only  have  we  repeatedly  heard 
Cuba  oppose  the  situation  in  this  very  body,  but  we 
also  know  that  the  embargo’s  continued  denial  of 
certain  medical  treatments  to  the  Cuban  people  is 
simply unconscionable. Cuba and its people have made 
considerable  contributions  to  international  medicine 
and  higher  education,  and  the  Caribbean  has  been 
among  its  most  sustained  beneficiaries.  It  is  therefore 
with the utmost conviction and clearest possible resolve 
that Saint Kitts and Nevis calls for the immediate end 
to the embargo.
I recall that it was in July and August of this year 
that  the  international  community  participated  in  the 
games  of  the  thirtieth  Olympiad.  At  a  time  of  rising 
international  tensions  and  intensifying  antagonisms, 
the  time  has  probably  come  for  us  to  introduce  to 
other  areas  of  international  and  intra-State  realms  of 
interaction  the  keen  spirit  of  cooperation  and  mutual 
respect  that  has  enabled  the  Olympics  to  function  so 
constructively and so well for so many years.
12-52396
23
A/67/PV.15
The  international  community  is,  by  definition, 
diverse.  Throughout  the  community,  however,  there 
run  strong  seams  of  commonality  that  can  and  must 
be  better  utilized  in  order  to  promote  peace,  the 
constructive airing of differences and the avoidance of 
violent conf lict. Most importantly, when all else fails, 
we  can  and  must  settle  the  most  vexing  international 
crises  through  the  good  offices  of  this  institution,  our 
United Nations. That is the path that would serve all our 
best interests. I sincerely urge that we take it.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman 
Livtunvanu, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Vanuatu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Vanuatu.
Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman  Livtunvanu,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman 
Livtunvanu, Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Kilman
(Vanuatu):  Vanuatu  wishes 
to 
associate itself with other delegations in congratulating 
the  President  and  the  members  of  his  Bureau  on  their 
election  to  lead  us  through  this  sixty-seventh  session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am  indeed  profoundly 
delighted,  as  Mr.  Jeremić  assured  us  in  our  meeting 
earlier  this  week,  that  he  will  do  his  utmost  to  assist 
with and bring to the forefront the issues that confront 
the  Pacific  island  States  and  other  marginalized 
nations.  We  trust  that  with  his  guidance,  this  session 
will conclude with successful outcomes.
Allow  me  also  to  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  who,  with  strong 
leadership  and  diplomatic  finesse,  led  us  to  great 
outcomes during the sixty-sixth session of the Assembly.
Our  world  has  seen  unprecedented  disputes  and 
conf licts,  most  of  which  have  spanned  successive 
about 
adjustment  or 
generations.  The  theme  of  the  sixty-seventh  session, 
“Bringing 
settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, 
should  therefore  lead  us  to  focus  on  finding  lasting 
solutions to the numerous ongoing conf licts in various 
parts of the world that are causing vulnerable people to 
suffer. Members have the solemn responsibility to steer 
this multilateral gathering towards deeper consideration 
of  the  founding  goals  of  the  Organization,  which  are 
to  encourage  and  create  a  more  secure  and  peaceful 
world  in  which  diverse  cultures  and  civilizations  can 
coexist  without  having  to  resort  to  force  and  violence 
to achieve their goals.
This  rostrum  can  testify  to  all  the  speeches  that 
have  been  delivered  by  the  world’s  great  leaders  on  a 
vast array of issues that affect humankind. Many of us 
representing  politically  independent  nations  here  have 
shared  the  journey  and  the  litany  of  heartaches  and 
dreams deferred of many of our global citizens, whose 
human  rights  to  larger  political  and  civil  freedom  are 
still  bound  by  the  tentacles  of  imperialism  and  the 
legacy  of  colonialism.  Even  now,  for  the  remaining 
colonized 
the 
pinnacle  they  so  greatly  aspire  to  reach  one  day. 
Since  1980,  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu  has  repeatedly 
called  for  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  its  efforts 
towards achieving the full decolonization of territories 
still controlled by administrative Powers. I call on the 
independent, free nations of the world to complete the 
story of decolonization and to close that chapter. 
this  rostrum  represents 
territories, 
At  this  juncture,  I  urge  the  United  Nations  not 
to  reject  the  demands  for  French  Polynesia’s  right  to 
self-determination  and  progress.  In  the  same  manner, 
negotiations for the self-government of the indigenous 
people of New Caledonia must continue. We encourage 
the parties to ensure that the process towards achieving 
self-government will stay on track. 
I also call upon Members to ensure that collective 
action  is  taken  to  lift  the  embargo  on  Cuba.  We,  the 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  must  revive  our 
political motivation and courage, dispel our feelings of 
animosity,  and  ensure  that  United  Nations  resolutions 
on that issue are fully implemented. Our actions must 
not detract from the universal values of love and respect 
for people, no matter how insignificant they may be to 
the powerful nations. I hope that one day we will at last 
be able to echo the message of freedom to many of our 
friends who still suffer from the burden of conf licting 
ideologies.
24 
12-52396
Last year, I reiterated to this Assembly our serious 
concerns over the denial of a country’s right to exercise 
its  full  political  freedom  and  inherent  cultural  rights 
over  its  maritime  territories.  Since  we  gained  our 
independence 32 years ago, our territorial dispute with 
the  French  Republic  over  the  southern  two  islands  of 
Vanuatu,  Matthew  and  Hunter,  has  been  a  reminder 
that we must continue to uphold the notion that the rule 
of  law  should  not  be  used  by  powerful  nations  as  an 
instrument to coerce weak and small nations, especially 
in territorial disputes.
The  French  and  the  Vanuatu  Governments  met  in 
Paris in April to commence dialogue on the issue of the 
territorially disputed islands. We take this opportunity 
to thank the French Government for finally opening its 
door to dialogue and negotiation in an attempt to resolve 
that outstanding international dispute. We acknowledge 
the  procedures  outlined  within  the  United  Nations  to 
ensure that such disputes are amicably resolved.
As  a  small  island  State  surrounded  by  the  vast 
Pacific  Ocean,  Vanuatu  is  exposed  to  the  notorious 
illegal transshipment  of and trade in illicit arms. The 
international arms trade has continuously lacked proper 
and coherent regulation and is responsible for the loss of 
innumerable  lives.  Like  many  other  countries,  we  call 
on the United Nations to take a much firmer approach 
in  expediting  the  conclusion  of  an  arms  trade  treaty, 
which would provide greater security and control over 
such  illegal  activity.  That  is  an  issue  of  paramount 
importance to all countries exposed to the illegal trade 
in arms and light weapons.
My  country  has  consistently  argued  that  the 
mechanisms  and  criteria  for  assessing  graduation 
eligibility must not be isolated from the permanent and 
inherent vulnerabilities of our countries. It is unrealistic 
for  United  Nations  agencies  to  assess  progress  and 
make projections without taking into consideration the 
matter  of  permanent  vulnerabilities  and  the  capacity 
to  sustain  growth  in  our  countries  after  graduation.  I 
wish to further state that, according to the World Risk 
Report 2011, Vanuatu scored highest on the World Risk 
Index as the country with the greatest disaster risk, due 
to  its  high  exposure  and  weak  coping  capacities.  The 
findings of that report are critical, and we therefore ask 
that  the  United  Nations  Committee  for  Development 
Policy  carefully  weigh  its  arguments  and  reassess  the 
vulnerability graduation criteria.
I  would  also  like  to  state  that,  prior  to  another 
triennial review of the least developed country (LDC) 
A/67/PV.15
category,  the  United  Nations  will  need  to  ensure  that 
proper resolutions are adopted by the General Assembly 
to ensure that small island States graduating from LDC 
status continue to enjoy certain preferential treatment, 
even after graduation, to offset the vulnerability factor. 
Let me take this opportunity to invite the members of 
the  triennial  review  to  visit  my  country  to  establish 
first-hand  information  and  ascertain  the  findings  of 
the World Risk Report prior to escalating the process of 
graduation in 2013.
Our  own  experience  has  shown  that  the  different 
ways  that  multilateral  organizations  and  institutions 
categorize  member  countries  can  affect  the  f low  of 
development assistance. For instance, Vanuatu, together 
with 15 other countries, was selected several years ago 
from among the Pacific island countries to benefit from 
the Millennium Challenge Corporation  (MCC) funding 
of the Government of the United States of America. At 
the time of our selection, Vanuatu was graded as a low-
income  country  and,  by  the  eligibility  criteria  of  the 
MCC,  was  automatically  qualified  for  and  benefited 
from $66 million to build two major national roads on 
two  different  islands  in  the  country.  I  wish  to  express 
our  appreciation  to  the  United  States  Government  for 
its assistance.
However,  when  the  Report  on  Countries  that  are 
Candidates  for  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation 
Account  Eligibility  for  Fiscal  Year  2010  was  released, 
Vanuatu  failed  to  qualify.  The  reason  was  simply  that 
the MCC was using World Bank criteria and graduated 
Vanuatu from the status of low-income country to that 
of  low-middle-income  country.  In  other  words,  the 
World Bank’s criteria may be totally different from the 
LDC criteria defined by the United Nations. I therefore 
wish  to  call  on  the  United  Nations,  especially  the 
Economic and Social Council, to ensure that the LDC 
definition and criteria used by United Nations agencies 
are compatible with those of the international financial 
institutions.
The  vast  Pacific  Ocean  is  our  heritage  and  the 
prime  means  of  livelihood  of  the  people  living  in  its 
island  countries.  Like  other  Pacific  Island  countries, 
Vanuatu continues to be exposed to and threatened by 
the negative impacts of climate change, such as coastal 
erosion, coral bleaching and ocean acidification. At the 
Forty-Third Pacific Islands Forum in the Cook Islands, 
the Forum leaders noted that many challenges remain in 
realizing benefits from the pledged new and additional 
targets  of  the  Copenhagen  Accord.  In  that  respect,  I 
12-52396
25
A/67/PV.15
would like to seize this opportunity to express our wish 
for  United  Nations  assistance  in  facilitating  effective 
responses to global climate change, particularly through 
the prompt implementation of adaptation measures, as 
well  as  mitigation  efforts,  climate  change  financing, 
capacity-building and international negotiations.
While we tend to direct our main focus of attention 
towards global climate change, we must address other 
matters,  such  as  environmental  pollution,  with  the 
same exigency and rigor. The potential for permanent, 
irrevocable  damage  to  the  environment  by  marine 
pollution  has  been  constantly  highlighted  by  the 
scientific  community  and  should  not  be  tolerated. 
The  future  growth  of  international  maritime  traffic 
will  further  exacerbate  the  situation.  Vanuatu  urges 
all  remaining  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
expeditiously  sign  and  ratify 
the  1972  London 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  of  Marine  Pollution  by 
Dumping  of  Wastes  and  Other  Matter,  as  well  as  the 
1996  Protocol  thereto,  and  to  promulgate  and  enforce 
legal  regimes,  both  in  the  domestic  and  international 
arenas.
At  this  point,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
unnecessary risk to which we expose our children and 
ourselves by not taking a firm precautionary approach 
with  regard 
to  marine  geoengineering  practices, 
such  as  sub-seabed  carbon  sequestration  and  ocean 
fertilization.  In  our  global  efforts  to  combat  climate 
change,  the  strict  promotion  of  and  adherence  to  only 
those  responses  that  are  environmentally  sensible  is 
our  crucial  responsibility,  and  I  am  not  only  speaking 
on  behalf  of  a  small  island  nation  when  I  recall  that, 
by  forgetting  the  essentiality  of  the  oceans  as  the 
very  foundation  of  life  on  Earth,  one  neglects  a  vital 
guarantor of mankind’s future survival.
As  I  conclude  this  speech,  I  have  to  make  a  last 
appeal  to  all  assembled  leaders.  I  urge  them  to  take 
immediate  action  upon  their  return  to  their  home 
countries to initiate the change that needs to come about 
if we wish to preserve a planet capable of providing our 
sons and daughters with a bright future. If the leaders 
of  the  industrialized  countries  want  to  achieve  the 
proposed 1.5° C target, they have less than eight years 
left to close a vast mitigation gap. Who if not they can 
or will implement the required measures for that crucial 
change?  This  may  well  be  their  last  chance.  In  their 
hands  lie  the  hope  and  destiny  of  the  world’s  nations. 
It is a responsibility that they must assume not only for 
their own people, but for humankind as a whole.
I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  express  my 
views in this forum. Long live our aspirations to create 
a better and a more secure world for everyone, and may 
God bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Vanuatu for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtunvanu, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President: 
on 
Ms. Antonella Mularoni, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
Telecommunications and Transportation of the Republic 
of San Marino.
I 
now 
call 
Ms.  Mularoni  (San  Marino):  On  behalf  of 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino,  I 
congratulate  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session, and I wish him a fruitful year. The San Marino 
delegation assures him of its utmost cooperation in all 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also  express  my 
country’s  gratitude  to  the  outgoing  President  of  the 
General Assembly, Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the 
excellent work carried out during the sixty-sixth session. 
He  distinguished  himself  by  his  leadership  in  the 
difficult and complex issues before the United Nations.  
He promoted the most important themes on the General 
Assembly’s  agenda  with  courage  and  determination, 
laying  foundations  for  solutions  based  on  the  widest 
possible  consensus,  while  continually  working  to 
strengthen the global governance architecture.
My  country  also  extends  special  thanks  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  energy 
and extraordinary determination in leading the United 
Nations. San Marino supports the basic priorities of the 
Secretary-General’s political action and his idea that the 
United Nations should play a key role in strengthening 
global  governance  by  creating  new  cooperation 
models  capable  of  managing  today’s  challenges  and 
the ever-increasing calls for change. The Organization 
is  in  a  unique  position  to  provide  solutions  in  deeply 
interconnected fields, such as development, peace and 
security, human rights and humanitarian action.
San Marino appreciates the focus of the Secretary-
General’s  attention  on  all  United  Nations  Member 
States, without distinction, as well as his commitment in 
the field of reform and his presence in all international 
26 
12-52396
politically  relevant  and  emergency  situations.  Among 
those  worth  underlining  is  the  Secretary-General’s 
tireless commitment to finding a solution to the terrible 
Syrian conf lict.
I thank the President for the theme chosen for this 
session:  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement 
of  international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means”. The Republic of San Marino strongly believes 
in  the  settlement  of  international  disputes  by  peaceful 
means. My country has always believed in the power of 
dialogue, democracy and respect for others as values at 
the basis of peaceful coexistence among peoples.
In that respect, with reference to the recent bloody 
attacks  on  Western  diplomatic  missions,  San  Marino 
intends  to  voice  once  more  its  firm  condemnation  of 
any  form  of  violence.  We  do  not  believe  that  violence 
is  the  right  answer  when  someone  feels  hurt  in  his 
personal beliefs or opinions, regardless of the gravity of 
the statements made. Human life must always be above 
everything and everyone. Those actions are even more 
reproachable when directed to institutions that are the 
emblems  of  international  collaboration  and  mutual 
assistance  and  when  States  bear  no  responsibility  for 
the statements made.
Our  country  is  therefore  grateful  to  the  President 
for having chosen the theme, most of all at a time when 
the  international  scene  is  unfortunately  characterized 
by  ever-increasing  and  bloody  conf licts.  In 
that 
context, the role of the United Nations, and in particular 
of  the  General  Assembly,  in  peaceful  transitions  and 
democratic solutions is even more fundamental.
For  that  reason  and  because  the  international 
community  is  now  called  upon  to  face  major  global 
challenges in a consistent and rapid manner, the reform 
process of the United Nations is crucial to future world 
stability  and  must  remain  the  target  of  all  our  efforts. 
We have the duty to guarantee the full effectiveness of 
the Organization’s activities with a view to preserving 
and  strengthening  its  essential  value  as  a  point  of 
reference for the international community and for any 
individual.
I  have  the  pleasure  to  reiterate  again  this  year  the 
support  granted  by  San  Marino  to  the  revitalization 
process of the General Assembly. In that regard, I thank 
Georgia  and  the  Gambia,  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly,  for  the  report  recently  adopted  (A/66/891), 
which  is  the  outcome  of  considerable  effort  and 
A/67/PV.15
numerous  informal  meetings  with  Member  States  and 
the representatives of the various political groups. That 
reform  is  particularly  important  for  my  country,  since 
the  General  Assembly  is  the  most  democratic  body  of 
the  United  Nations  and,  as  such,  the  most  adequate 
and sometimes the only forum where a small State can 
express its opinions.
The revitalization process of the General Assembly 
is fundamental to strengthening the global governance 
architecture  and  must  be  an  objective  common  to  all 
Member  States.  The  rationalization  of  the  agenda  and 
improvement  of  the  methods  of  work  of  the  General 
Assembly are important aspects of the reform, which is 
necessary to enhance the technical and administrative 
efficiency  of  this  body.  But  more  importantly,  the 
revitalization  process  should  include  the  political  role 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  authority,  as  defined 
in the Charter of the United Nations. The reform of the 
General  Assembly  should  also  improve  its  relations 
with  the  other  main  organs  of  the  United  Nations  in 
order to avoid duplication of functions and means.
The Republic of San Marino believes that the role 
of the General Assembly should not be limited to that 
of  a  mere  body  where  resolutions  are  adopted.  On  the 
contrary, it should be a forum for the exchange of ideas 
and  debate,  where  solutions  to  today’s  challenges  can 
be  found,  and  where  a  global  consensus  on  issues  of 
common interest can be reached. In that regard, with a 
view to enabling the Assembly to fully perform its task, 
San  Marino  supports  the  prerogative  of  its  President 
to organize thematic debates on the most relevant and 
urgent issues at the international level.
In  that  context,  I  underline  the  great  importance 
attached by my country to the initiative of the outgoing 
President  to  organize,  together  with  the  Secretary-
General,  the  high-level  thematic  debate  on  the  state 
of  the  world  economy  and  finance  in  2012,  which 
took  place  on  17  and  18  May  here  in  New  York.  The 
Republic of San Marino, together with Turkey, had the 
honour  and  the  pleasure  to  facilitate  that  event.  The 
debate was an efficient way to reaffirm the central role 
of the United Nations, and in particular of the General 
Assembly,  by  enhancing  its  deeply  democratic  nature 
and  its  indisputable  legitimacy  in  dealing  with  issues 
that affect the entire world community.
Four  years  ago,  the  world  economy  suffered  a 
devastating financial crisis, the consequences of which 
are still evident to all. A prompt response by the Group 
12-52396
27
A/67/PV.15
of  Twenty  and  its  central  banks  was  able  to  avoid  the 
worst  effects  of  this  crisis,  but  the  situation  is  still 
precarious.  According  to  forecasts,  many  developed 
countries will experience stagnation and in some cases 
recession. Economic growth has slowed down in many 
other countries. Today, unemployment has reached the 
highest  levels,  in  particular  among  young  people  and 
women.  Increases  in  the  prices  of  food  products  and 
persistent  inequalities  contribute  to  higher  poverty 
rates and cause increasingly violent social tensions. 
Problems  connected  with  sovereign  debts 
in 
Europe  have  further  worsened  global  economic  crisis. 
The crisis has severely hit many countries of the world, 
thus  becoming  one  of  today’s  major  challenges  to  our 
Organization as well. It is now more than ever necessary 
to find new strategies, solutions and, more importantly, 
to create a sense of solidarity among our countries and 
peoples. 
For those reasons too, the organization this year of 
a thematic debate on the state of the world economy and 
finance  was  extremely  important.  My  country  firmly 
believes  that  this  exercise  should  be  repeated  at  this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  perhaps  at  later 
sessions,  at  least  until  the  crisis  has  been  overcome. 
Indeed,  when  we  talk  about  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly,  we  think  of  a  forum  where  all 
members  of  the  international  community  have  the 
opportunity  to  exchange  ideas  on  the  most  important 
and  urgent  themes  that  have  a  global  dimension  and 
need a global response. In our opinion, the Organization 
should  play  a  leadership  role  in  the  promotion  of  fair 
and inclusive growth, sustainable development and the 
elimination of poverty and hunger. 
The reform of the Security Council is part of a wider 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  remains  a  central 
theme  of  the  activity  of  the  General  Assembly.  Over 
the past few years, the Security Council has approved 
a growing number of peacekeeping operations and has 
been  increasingly  involved  in  extremely  important 
issues  concerning  international  peace  and  security. 
The  reform  of  that  body,  based  on  the  widest  possible 
political consensus, is therefore necessary and must be 
carried out with the utmost commitment by all Member 
States.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino 
to 
Ambassador  Tanin  for  the  wisdom  and  impartiality 
with  which  he  has  presided  over  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  reform.  Our  country  is  convinced 
is  grateful 
that the intergovernmental negotiations launched three 
years ago still represent the right framework to find a 
solution, taking into account the interests and positions 
of  all.  Although  the  various  groups  of  countries  still 
express  different  positions,  it  must  be  recognized  that 
some  steps  forward  have  been  taken  in  the  reform 
process.  San  Marino  believes  that  the  reform  should 
lead  to  an  enlarged,  more  representative,  transparent 
and  efficient  Security  Council.  Moreover,  it  believes 
that  the  five  strongly  interconnected  fundamental 
themes of the reform need to be considered as a whole.
Over  the  past  few  years,  some  new  bloody  and 
violent  conf licts  have  broken  out.  We  have  also 
witnessed a massive popular uprising spreading across 
the  squares  of  cities  in  North  Africa  and  the  Middle 
East. At the forefront of the Arab revolution were young 
people,  educated  and  penalized  by  exclusion  from  the 
labour  market.  The  situation  is  still  unstable,  and  we 
are unable to imagine what the future of such countries 
will look like. However, we must support them in their 
struggle for democracy, liberty and social justice.
Furthermore,  today  we  are  witnessing  the  Syrian 
conf lict,  the  violence  of  which  is  unacceptable.  There 
are clear reports on the atrocities perpetrated against the 
population:  mass  killings,  rapes,  summary  executions 
and  torture.  Children  have  been  among  the  innocent 
victims of the massacres. San Marino firmly condemns 
those  atrocities,  in  the  same  way  as  it  condemns 
any  violation  of  human  rights  and 
international 
humanitarian law.
We  hope  that  the  Security  Council  will  be  able  to 
reach  an  agreement  soon  on  how  to  settle  the  Syrian 
crisis.  San  Marino  seizes  this  opportunity  to  express 
its  most  sincere  wishes  to  His  Excellency  Lakhdar 
Brahimi for having accepted a difficult task.
The  commitment  of 
the  General  Assembly 
concerning  the  Syrian  crisis  ref lects  an  important 
mission  of  our  Organization:  to  keep  the  peace 
worldwide  and  to  ensure  respect  for  freedoms  and 
human  rights.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino  expresses 
its  satisfaction  with  the  adoption,  on  3  August  last,  of 
resolution 66/253 B, which we co-sponsored.
Another  important  theme  this  year  on  the  agenda 
of  the  General  Assembly  has  been  the  improvement 
of  disaster  prevention  and  response.  That  theme  has 
recently  gained  greater  importance  in  the  political 
agenda.  Rising 
and 
droughts  have  caused  unprecedented  humanitarian 
temperatures, 
earthquakes 
28 
12-52396
disasters.  Many  populations  have  suffered  food  and 
health  insecurity,  thus  becoming  fully  aware  of  their 
vulnerability. Disasters are, of course, not only natural 
ones but also caused by human beings. The international 
community  must  be  able  to  rapidly  and  efficiently 
respond  to  emergency  situations.  A  fundamental  way 
to reduce the risks connected with natural disasters is 
undoubtedly to invest in the most vulnerable regions in 
order to build the capacities necessary to prevent them, 
so that action can be taken before disasters occur.
In the short term, however, it is essential to provide 
our  political  and  financial  support  so  as  to  overcome 
the  consequences  of  disasters.  In  that  regard,  I  am 
proud of the fact that my country, despite its small size, 
is  ranked  fifty-second  among  donors  to  the  Central 
Emergency Response Fund.
We  are  extremely  grateful  to  the  Secretary-
General,  as  well  as  to  the  Office  for  the  Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  the  Fund,  for  their  rapid 
and  fundamental  action  in  favour  of  populations  in 
humanitarian  emergency  and  for  their  substantial 
contribution.  Humanitarian  and  development  issues, 
particularly  sustainable  development,  are  inevitably 
intertwined,  and  our  success  in  providing  an  efficient 
response  to  natural  disasters  certainly  has  a  direct 
impact  on  our  capacity  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
Indeed, as this is a global economic crisis, responses 
must also have a global dimension. The United Nations, 
on  account  of  its  universal  character,  must  play  a  key 
role  in  the  decision-making  process  on  the  world 
economy  and  sustainable  development,  with  a  view 
to  finding  new  solutions  and  to  promoting  a  political 
consensus on these issues.
The  Organization  must  play  a  leadership  role  in 
the promotion of fair and inclusive growth, sustainable 
development and the elimination of poverty and hunger. 
In  that  context,  San  Marino  welcomes  the  results 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, held last June in Rio. Resolution 66/288, 
entitled  “The  future  we  want”,  marked  the  conclusion 
of  long  and  complex  negotiations  at  the  end  of  which 
States finally recognized their common responsibilities. 
Now the most important thing is for the commitments 
undertaken  to  be  respected  so  that  the  future  that 
is  wanted  and  set  out  in  the  resolution  can  become  a 
reality.
A/67/PV.15
The  1948  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  states  that  everyone  is  entitled  to  the  same 
rights  and  freedoms,  without  distinction  of  any  kind. 
Unfortunately,  in  today’s  world  there  is  a  clear  and 
direct relationship among disability, poverty and social 
exclusion.  According 
to  estimates,  approximately 
15  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  is  affected  by 
disabilities, and about two thirds of disabled people live 
in developing countries. Many of them cannot actively 
participate  in  their  societies.  This  situation  is  not 
limited  only  to  developing  countries.  Indeed,  women, 
men and children with disabilities are often victims of 
discrimination even in the richest societies.
San Marino was among the first countries to ratify 
the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with  Disabilities.  That  Convention  and  its  optional 
Protocol cover a wide range of civil, cultural, economic, 
political  and  social  rights.  My  country  is  pleased  that 
the  Convention  has  been  ratified  by  more  than  half of 
Member  States  and  hopes  that  it  will  soon  be  ratified 
by  all.  Each  country  has  the  duty  to  fully  implement 
the Convention. An effective and positive change in the 
lives of people with disabilities will be possible only if 
it is fully implemented.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  congratulates  the 
General  Assembly  on  its  decision  to  convene  a  high-
level  meeting  on  disability  and  development 
in 
September  2013  and  hopes  that  the  meeting  will  be  a 
great success.
Today  we  all  recognize  and  appreciate 
role  of  women.  Nonetheless, 
the 
fundamental 
the 
discrimination  and  violence  to  which  women  are  still 
often  subjected  are  among  the  major  concerns  of  the 
United Nations. In many countries, maternal mortality 
is still worrisome, especially in the poorest areas of the 
world. Women are the most affected by HIV. In many 
parts  of  the  world,  women  continue  to  be  subjected 
to  atrocious  and  humiliating  practices.  Improving  the 
status of women all over the world is our responsibility, 
a  responsibility  which  all  States  must  share.  To  that 
end, in order to promote the empowerment of women, 
it is essential to guarantee women’s access to schooling 
and  education  and  to  improve  their  participation  in 
political,  social  and  economic  life  at  all  levels.  The 
Republic of San Marino welcomes the proposal to hold 
a  global  conference  on  women  in  2015,  20  years  after 
the Beijing summit.
12-52396
29
A/67/PV.15
that 
recent  estimates  show 
Despite the fact that child mortality is decreasing, 
the  most 
in  2010 
approximately 7.6 million children died before the age 
of  5.  Moreover,  according  to  estimates,  in  2015  about 
72  million  children  will  not  have  access  to  schooling. 
Recently,  the  drought  and  food  emergency  in  the 
Horn of Africa has had a devastating impact on about 
13  million  people,  in  particular  women  and  children. 
Almost 5 million young people between the ages of 15 
and 24 are affected by HIV.
Children are still the most vulnerable group of the 
population  and  are  subjected  to  violence,  abuse  and 
exploitation.  A  vast  number  of  children  all  over  the 
world do not still have access to basic services, health 
care  and  education.  Besides  facing  global  challenges 
such as the economic crisis and the problems connected 
with  climate  change,  States  must  find  the  resources 
necessary  to  best  meet  the  needs  of  children  and  to 
immediately  improve  the  conditions  of  those  living  in 
the  poorest  areas  of  the  world.  It  is  imperative  for  us 
all if we want to guarantee to the global community a 
future worthy of the name.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Narayan Kaji Shrestha, Deputy Prime Minister and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nepal.
Mr.  Shresta
(Nepal):  Let  me  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. My delegation assures him of its full support in 
the discharge of his responsibilities.
I also take this opportunity to place on record our 
profound  appreciation  to  the  outgoing  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for having 
successfully presided over the sixty-sixth session of the 
Assembly.  Let  me  also  express  our  sincere  gratitude 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  strong 
commitment  and  dedication  in  serving  the  United 
Nations.
In  establishing  the  United  Nations  at  a  time  when 
the  world  was  emerging  from  the  ashes  of  successive 
devastating  wars,  our  founding  fathers  envisioned 
a  peaceful,  stable,  just  and  prosperous  world.  Nearly 
seven  decades  later,  the  lofty  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations Charter are yet to be fully realized. Threats to 
international peace and security remain unabated, with 
traditional  sources  of  threats  continuing  alongside  the 
emergence  of  new  sources  and  forms  of  conf lict.  In 
fact, the sense of insecurity seems to be more pervasive 
today  as  people  around  the  world  continue  to  face  a 
wide  range  of  situations,  characterized  by  the  legacy 
of  colonialism,  injustice,  domination,  exploitation, 
hatred,  intolerance,  exclusion,  xenophobia  and  so  on. 
Economic insecurity in the face of the heightened global 
economic  and  financial  crises  and  fierce  competition 
for  dwindling  resources  and  energy  security  also  play 
their  part  in  generating  tensions  in  many  parts  of  the 
world.
the 
and 
The  concept  of  collective  security  being  the  core 
pillar  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  has  often  been 
undermined  through  recourse  to  dispute-settlement 
means  that  are  outside  the  purview  of  a  multilateral 
mechanism.  Unilateralism 
selective 
interpretation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  risk 
inciting  more  conf lict  and  confrontation  rather  than 
understanding  and  cooperation.  That  necessitates 
wider  respect  and  observance  of  the  principles  of 
sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence 
and  non-interference  as  the  bedrock  principles  of 
international 
relations.  Those  principles  cannot 
and  should  not  be  put  to  the  political  test  under  any 
circumstances.
The  growing  challenges  do  not  mean  that  the  role 
and importance of the United Nations have diminished, 
but  rather  demand  a  more  effective  and  stronger 
Organization.  We  must  internalize  that  reality  and 
move  forward,  grasping  the  true  spirit  of  its  founding 
principles and purposes.
Nepal  supports  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
Middle  East.  It  is  our  principled  position  to  support 
the  legitimate  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination  and  a  fully  independent  and  sovereign 
Palestinian  State  on  the  basis  of  the  United  Nations 
resolutions. The peaceful and secure coexistence of the 
independent  States  of  a  sovereign  Palestine  and  Israel 
are crucial to ensuring lasting peace in the Middle East.
We call for an end to the violence and the peaceful 
resolution  of  the  Syrian  crisis  by  the  Syrian  people 
themselves.  The  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and 
independence of Syria must be upheld. 
We  are  of  the  firm  opinion  that  the  protracted 
embargo on Cuba is unjustified and needs to be ended 
immediately and unconditionally. 
We  recognize  the  legitimate  rights  of  every 
sovereign  State  to  pursue  the  development  of  nuclear 
technology  solely  for  peaceful  purposes  and  under 
30 
12-52396
effective  international  supervision.  We  stand  firmly 
against  nuclear  proliferation,  the  arms  race  and  the 
misuse of nuclear technology for ulterior motives.
We  strongly  oppose  and  renounce  violence  and 
physical  attacks  on  diplomats  anywhere  under  any 
pretext.
We  reiterate  our  call  for  general  and  complete 
elimination  of  nuclear  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction in a time-bound manner. The international 
community  should  work  in  unison  to  strengthen 
controls over small arms and light weapons to prevent 
their pervasive abuse by criminal elements.
It  is  heartening  to  note  that,  as  a  major  troop-
contributing  country,  Nepal  has  already  provided 
over  92,000  professional  and  dedicated  peacekeepers 
to  the  United  Nations  for  various  operations  since  its 
first  participation  in  1959. We  remain  steadfast  in  our 
commitment  to  international  peace  and  security  and 
affirm  that  our  contribution  to  that  noble  cause  will 
continue.  While  calling  for  timely  reforms  in  that 
f lagship activity, we stress the importance of equitable 
representation  of  troop-contributing  countries,  at  the 
leadership  level,  both  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
and in field missions.
I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Nepal’s  unreserved 
condemnation  of  terrorism  wherever  it  occurs  and  in 
all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We  renew  our  call 
for  an  expeditious  conclusion  of  the  negotiations  on  a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
As we continue to combat terrorism, we must not forget 
that durable peace can be built only on the firm pillars 
of the prevention of conf lict, the peaceful resolution of 
disputes,  persistent  efforts  for  disarmament,  poverty 
reduction,  development  and  respect  for  diversity, 
fairness  and  justice.  There  is  a  need  to  differentiate 
between terrorism and struggles for liberation, freedom 
and sustainable peace and development.
Our commitment to democracy, human rights, the 
rule  of  law  and  inclusive  development  is  unf linching. 
The mutually reinforcing effects of such principles foster 
the  active  participation  of  the  people  in  governance 
processes 
security 
and  development.  To  address  Nepal’s  post-conf lict 
transition needs, we have established mechanisms and 
processes  for  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human 
rights and for their monitoring at the highest level and 
at various tiers of the sub-national level. 
safeguarding  peace, 
towards 
A/67/PV.15
As  a  party  to  22  human  rights  conventions, 
including seven core instruments, we have established 
several  laws  that  ensure  the  rights  of  all  sectors  of 
society,  including  women,  children  and  marginalized 
and  deprived  communities.  We  are  committed  to 
controlling  cross-border  human  trafficking  and  to 
doing our utmost to ensure that the rights and interests 
of  migrant  workers  are  protected  in  countries  that  are 
destinations  for  labour.  The  National  Human  Rights 
Commission,  which  is  an  independent  constitutional 
body, operates as the country’s all-powerful watchdog 
for  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights. 
We  are  committed  to  strengthening  that  specialized 
national institution as a true custodian of human rights.
Nepal  has  provided  shelter  to  a  large  number  of 
refugees on humanitarian grounds. While we appreciate 
the  assistance  of  the  international  community  in 
supporting  refugees,  we  reiterate  that  their  voluntary 
repatriation to their homeland with dignity and honour 
is the only durable solution to the refugee problem.
the  rule  of 
law  at 
that 
We  underscore 
the 
international level is as important as at the national level 
in ensuring the sovereign equality of all States, respect 
for their territorial integrity and political independence 
and  non-intervention  in  their  internal  affairs.  Those 
are  essential  principles  for  peaceful  coexistence  and 
mutual cooperation among States.
The  issue  of  sustainable  development  has  come 
to  the  forefront  of  today’s  global  discourse.  It  was  the 
focus of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20).  We  believe  that  we  need  to 
pursue  not  only  sustainable  development  goals,  but 
also  a  development  path  towards  equal  prosperity 
through  meaningful  development  opportunities  by 
eradicating  the  deeply  entrenched  inequalities  and 
global  exploitative  practices.  In  our  opinion,  freeing 
all  human  beings  from  the  dehumanizing  clutches  of 
poverty  and  hunger  should  be  the  first  essential  step 
towards  that  end.  The  outcome  document  of  Rio+20 
(resolution 66/288, annex) sets out a broad framework 
for global action for “The future we want” and a post-
2015 global development agenda. The need of the hour 
is to ensure effective implementation. 
As  we  all  have  come  to  realize,  climate  change  is 
one of the greatest challenges of our time. Its insidious 
effects  are  visible  everywhere  and  are  compounded 
by  disasters  of  increasing  magnitude  and  frequency. 
Countries 
like  Nepal,  which  make  a  negligible 
12-52396
31
A/67/PV.15
contribution  to  greenhouse  gases  but  have  to  bear  the 
disproportionate brunt of the impacts of climate change, 
deserve special assistance in creating and maintaining 
climate-resilient  societies.  Negotiations  under 
the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  should  continue  to  be  guided  by  the  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  in  letter 
and  spirit.  Nepal  hopes  that  the  successor  mechanism 
of  the  Kyoto  Protocol  ensures  binding  commitments 
and  climate  justice.  The  various  funding  mechanisms 
for climate change adaptation and mitigation measures 
must  be  activated,  and  action  must  be  taken  on  an 
urgent basis.
The world we live in is more unjust today than when 
we inherited it. Contrary to much-touted popular belief, 
the  profusion  in  knowledge,  the  revolution  in  science 
and  technology  and  increased  mobility  in  ideas  and 
global  capital,  though  often  termed  as  advancements 
characteristic  of  the  modern  world,  have  failed  to 
deliver  significant  contributions  to  making  our  planet 
safer  and  more  just.  They  could  have,  but  that  is  not 
the reality. It is an irony that our capacities to produce 
goods  and  services  have  increased  manyfold,  leading 
to  an  unprecedented  accumulation  of  wealth,  but  over 
one  third  of  the  world’s population  is  forced  to  live  in 
abject poverty.
The 
rapid  globalization  of 
finance  and  an 
unsustainable  consumption  of  resources  have  made 
a  few  people  enormously  rich  at  the  cost  of  the  rest, 
making for the greatest inequality among human beings 
ever in history. Obviously, the transformative power of 
globalization has not been utilized for the benefit of the 
masses.  The  direction  and  pattern  of  the  current  form 
of economic globalization therefore call for a change in 
its mode of operation so that it becomes more inclusive 
and  responsive  to  the  needs  of  poor  and  marginalized 
people.
Nepal  views  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM) 
and the Group of 77 and China as important multilateral 
forums  that  should  play  an  active  role  in  advancing 
the  United  Nations  agenda,  in  line  with  the  Charter 
objectives of pursuing the shared goals of peace, progress 
and prosperity. The principles and purposes of NAM are 
of continued relevance in forging developing countries’ 
collective moral resolve to create an equitable, fair and 
just world order, combating the conservative forces of 
repression,  invasion,  intimidation  and  injustice.  The 
ideals of NAM, as reiterated at its recently held sixteenth 
summit  in  Teheran,  go  a  long  way  towards  fostering 
better  understanding  and  cooperative  relations  among 
countries and peoples of the world.
The least developed countries (LDCs) are suffering 
from  dehumanizing  marginalization  and  deprivation 
of  the  basic  necessities  of  life.  This  state  of  affairs 
is  a  blemish  on  the  sheer  aff luence  achieved  in  the 
globalized world. Global sustainable development will 
not be possible without sustainable development for the 
LDCs, including substantial improvement in the quality 
of life of their 880 million people. The world must pay 
due attention in deeds as well as in words to the special 
and different needs and requirements of the LDCs.
The landlocked LDCs (LLDCs), among which Nepal 
figures,  have  to  bear  the  additional  disadvantages  of 
physical and non-physical barriers in trade. That results 
in  increased  transactional  costs  for  transit  transport, 
which  renders  their  international  trade  uncompetitive. 
Transit  countries,  regional  groups,  the  international 
financial  institutions  and  other  development  partners 
should work together to overcome those difficulties by 
investing  in  transport  infrastructure  links  and  trade 
facilitation  measures.  We  underline  the  central  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  the  development 
agenda,  taking  into  account  the  special  needs  and 
development  challenges  confronting  the  LDCs,  the 
LLDCs and other vulnerable groups of countries.
Timely  and  ongoing  reforms  of 
the  United 
Nations  are  necessary  to  strengthen  and  revitalize 
this  world  body  so  that  it  can  respond  to  increasing 
global  challenges.  The  General  Assembly  must  be 
strengthened  and  endowed  with  decision-making 
power  and  authority  commensurate  with  its  global 
representation.  Nepal  supports  the  expansion  of  the 
Security Council in both member categories and hopes 
to  see  greater  accountability  and  transparency  in  its 
working  methods.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council 
must be strengthened for the promotion of international 
economic cooperation, coordination, policy review and 
dialogue. It must also formulate and develop the social 
and economic agenda and work for the implementation 
of agreed international development goals, with special 
emphasis on development for LDCs, LLDCs and small 
island developing States, among others.
We  seek  an 
increased  role  for 
the  United 
Nations  system  in  global  economic  governance,  with 
strengthened  coordination  and  cooperation  with 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the  World  Trade 
Organization, to ref lect the dynamics of change.
32 
12-52396
Let  me  brief ly  say  a  few  words  about  the  current 
situation  in  my  country.  The  historic  task  we  face  is 
still  to  positively  conclude  the  historical  transition 
we  are  undergoing  as  early  as  possible.  We  need  the 
Constituent Assembly to promulgate a new constitution 
and  we  need  to  finally  complete  the  peace  process. 
Based on the historic people’s movement of 2006, which 
was the culmination of many decades of struggle by the 
Nepalese  people  against  autocracy,  we  abolished  the 
monarchy  and  established  a  republican  State.  We  also 
adopted other important principles, such as secularism, 
federalism  and  inclusive,  proportional  representation 
and participation, although they are yet to be codified 
in a new constitution. 
The  Constituent  Assembly  was  elected  for  the 
first  time  in  Nepal’s  political  history  in  2008  and 
was  mandated  to  draft  a  constitution  addressing  the 
aspirations of the people for change, a restructuring of 
the  State  and  an  end  to  all  forms  of  exploitation  and 
discrimination  based  on  class,  ethnicity,  gender  and 
region.  The  Constituent  Assembly  worked  for  four 
years  to  draft  the  new  constitution  and  completed  80 
to  90  per  cent  of  the  drafting,  but  never  finalized  the 
text. Not having met its deadline, and after the Supreme 
Court  ruled  against  extensions,  it  was  dissolved  on 
27 May this year.
We have made qualitative progress on the technical 
side  of  the  peace  process,  mainly  the  integration  of 
former  Maoist  combatants.  There  is  no  outstanding 
problem  left  in  that  regard  and  the  process  is  near 
completion. A transitional justice mechanism is in place 
to promote the peace and reconciliation process needed 
for  the  completion  of  the  peace  process.  But  we  have 
yet  to  find  a  solution  to  the  Constituent  Assembly’s 
inability  to  create  a  constitution.  Political  parties  are 
engaged  in  dialogue  and  negotiations  in  that  regard 
and  are  seriously  committed  to  finding  a  consensus 
solution. National consensus is the only option to find a 
way out of the current impasse. We hope we will be able 
to do so without excessive delay. 
and 
are 
peace 
As we go through the process of institutionalizing 
change,  we  are  of  the  firm  belief  that  democracy, 
development 
and 
interdependent.  By  “democracy”,  we  mean  inclusive 
and  participatory  democracy,  and  by  “development” 
we  mean  people-centred  development  with  social 
justice  and  socioeconomic  transformation.  Without 
democracy  and  development,  there  cannot  be  lasting 
and  sustainable  peace.  And  democracy,  development, 
interrelated 
A/67/PV.15
should 
stability 
peace  and 
safeguard  national 
sovereignty. Thus democracy, development, peace and 
national  sovereignty  are  the  major  components  of  our 
process of change. From our experience, we can say that 
democracy has both universal and particular aspects.
We  thank  the  international  community,  including 
the  United  Nations,  for  its  continued  support  for  and 
cooperation  in  our  peace  and  constitution-making 
process from the very beginning, and hope that it will 
continue in the future.
Nature has blessed us with an outstanding mountain 
range with gushing rivers, incredible biodiversity and a 
landscape  spectrum  of  contrast  and  vibrancy.  We  are 
equally rich in ancient cultural heritage, multiple ethnic 
cultures  and  a  diverse  mosaic  of  hardworking  people. 
We  need  a  stable  and  peaceful  environment  if  we  are 
to make effective use of those diverse endowments for 
socioeconomic  transformation,  along  with  ongoing 
State  restructuring.  Only  then  will  it  be  possible  to 
translate  the  historic  achievements  we  have  made  on 
the political front into tangible results in economic and 
human development terms.
As  a  symbolic  gesture  to  institutionalize  peace 
for  development  in  the  national,  regional  and  global 
contexts, we want to develop Lumbini, the birthplace of 
Lord Buddha, the apostle of peace, into an international 
city of peace. In that respect, we call for international 
support and cooperation to realize the initiative.
In conclusion, I would like in all humility to draw 
the  attention  of  all  world  leaders  to  the  core  reality 
that  if  we  do  not  reach  the  goal  of  global  peace  and 
prosperity  together,  then  nobody  will.  That  is  why we 
must act together accordingly.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Tonio  Borg,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Malta.
(Malta): 
Mr.  Borg
I  extend  my  warmest 
congratulations to Mr. Jeremić on his election to preside 
over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. 
The  demanding  agenda  of  this  Assembly  makes  that 
no  easy  task,  but  I  assure  him  of  Malta’s  support  and 
friendship.
Over a year ago, the protagonists of the Arab Spring 
proclaimed  that  their  time  had  come.  They  shed  their 
blood for freedom, calling for an end to the status quo 
of  oppression  and  injustice.  Unfortunately,  extremists 
persist in their efforts to derail that call. United States 
12-52396
33
A/67/PV.15
Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  was,  sadly,  one  of 
their  victims.  One  cannot  stress  strongly  enough  the 
importance of protecting the inviolability of diplomatic 
premises  and  personnel,  and  reiterate  our  collective 
condemnation  of 
the  deplorable  acts  perpetrated 
recently in various capitals of our neighbourhood.
Many  doubted  the  success  of  the  Arab  Spring; 
many  feared  its  call  for  change.  Yet  change  did  come. 
We  are  now  witnessing  the  first  seeds  of  democracy 
blossoming in places where that would previously have 
been  unthinkable.  And  more  change  is  yet  to  come. 
People  around  the  world  are  calling  for  it.  Theirs  is  a 
call that pits us against conventional thinking, pushing 
us out of our comfort zone and into the unfamiliar — a 
call for humankind to go beyond the borders of human 
difference and indifference. We have the choice to heed 
that call or to ignore it, but make no mistake — we do 
have a choice. 
Malta  knows  all  too  well  what  the  call  for  change 
is about. It experiences it first hand as it receives those 
f leeing  war,  hunger  and  persecution,  arriving  on  its 
shores  after  a  perilous  journey  in  search  of  a  better 
life. Malta recognizes that we need to give those people 
safe refuge, and we do so with a sense of solidarity and 
a  strong  belief  that  every  human  life  is  worth  saving. 
We are committed to giving assistance, and we remain 
steadfast  in  our  belief  that  Malta  will  continue  its 
historical  role  of  welcoming  those  who  are  bereft  of 
human rights and dignity.
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  Malta  calls  upon  the 
international  community  to  give  those  people  genuine 
alternatives, and to no longer accept that it is a problem 
in  someone  else’s  backyard.  We  want  to  ensure  that 
the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
does not become a simple check-marking exercise, but 
instead  underscores  a  truly  global  effort  that  will  lift 
millions  out  of  situations  of  deprivation,  disease  and 
discrimination.  Those  goals  must  be  sustained  long 
after the media has gone and the speeches are over, and 
we urge the Assembly to spare no effort in seeing that 
it is done.
The choice of freedom has seen Malta’s neighbour 
to  the  south  hold  its  first  free  and  fully  democratic 
elections  in  60  years.  We  salute  Libya  on  its  recent 
successes. For many, the act of voting was a success in 
itself. The Libyan people voted for their policy-makers. 
They did not vote for ideology, but for visionaries who 
will  breathe  life  into  their  aspirations.  It  is  a  time  of 
celebration  for  our  neighbours,  and  Malta  joins  others 
in  recognizing  their  achievements,  as  well  as  the 
achievements of the other countries of the Arab Spring.
Yet  as  we  bear  witness  to  the  wave  of  democratic 
reform  drifting  across  the  southern  Mediterranean 
shores, we must also recall that others are still struggling 
for  freedom.  The  situation  in  Syria  cannot but  trouble 
us.  Oppression  and  violence  are  never  the  solution. 
They  only  stif le  the  inevitable  for  a  short  while,  for 
the  human  spirit  can  never  be  defeated.  And  it  is  our 
duty,  as  the  international  community,  to  respond.  It  is 
not a question of resolutions and syntax. It is our moral 
obligation  to  ensure  that  the  people  of  Syria  are  not 
abandoned to a tragic fate. 
The time to sit on the fence and live with prejudices 
and  division  is  over.  Malta  firmly  believes  that  now 
can  be  the  right  time  for  a  new  era —  not  just  for  the 
southern  littoral  shores  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  but 
for  the  whole  basin.  The  Mediterranean  region  has 
known too many wars, too many divisions and far too 
many  prejudices.  As  the  heart  of  the  Mediterranean, 
Malta  understands  well  the  nuances  of  the  basin,  and 
it  is  this  understanding  that  pushes  us  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment to the promotion of prosperity and peace 
across  the  whole  Mediterranean  region  and  beyond. 
Malta’s initiative to convene a European Union-League 
of  Arab  States  ministerial  meeting  in  Malta  in  2008 
was specifically aimed at attaining that. We salute the 
decision  for  the  “Malta  II”  meeting  to  take  place  in 
Cairo next November.
Our efforts did not stop there. In a few days’ time, 
Malta will host the 5+5 Heads of State and Government 
Meeting  of  the  Western  Mediterranean  Forum.  That 
grouping  should  offer  an  excellent  opportunity  to 
discuss  such  issues.  The  summit  meeting  coincides 
with the dramatic changes taking place in the political 
landscape 
in  North  Africa.  The  expectation  for 
the  implementation  of  concrete  action  in  the  Euro-
Mediterranean 
ineffective 
declarations, statements and conclusions, is important. 
I hope that the Malta Summit will meet the aspirations 
of the peoples of the northern and southern basin of the 
Mediterranean. We cannot fail in that regard. We owe 
it to our peoples.
transcending 
region, 
However, if we want to truly embrace the changes 
that  are  taking  place  around  us,  we  must  take  them 
further. The call to rise above stalemate and stagnation 
is  nowhere  more  evident  than  in  the  Middle  East 
34 
12-52396
peace  process,  where  the  fear  of  change  is  holding  all 
those  involved  back.  The  parties  concerned  must  face 
some  uncomfortable  truths  in  order  to  overcome  the 
stumbling blocks. Bickering over who does what when 
is not the way forward. Forging common ground does 
not equate with giving in.
Malta  believes  that  the  international  community 
must redouble its efforts in that process and that there 
can  be  no  rest  until  the  world  welcomes  a  truly  stable 
and secure Middle East. We owe it to the Palestinians 
and the Israelis. We owe it to the wider Mediterranean 
region,  which  has  now  been  deadlocked  for  far  too 
long  in  the  grips  of  that  struggle.  There  really  is  no 
other  option  than  that,  for  the  alternative  is  further 
entrenchment of the positions held and more extremism 
and instability. Malta reaffirms its commitment to the 
efforts of the United Nations and the European Union, 
in particular towards the attainment of the goal of two 
viable States living side by side in harmony. However, 
that  solution  is  possible  only  if  it  is  feasible  on  the 
ground. That means no unilateral action, which would 
make it an unattainable reality.
A  year  from  now,  we  should  no  longer  be  talking 
of  a  Middle  East  peace  process  but  of  a  Middle  East 
in  peace,  and  that  is  that.  The  sceptics  among  us  will 
note that that is what was said last year and, of course, 
even the year before. For over 60 years, we have been 
making  that  call  but  we  must  not  let  the  opportunity 
slip  away  once  again.  The  Arab  Spring  shows  us  that 
we  need  to  answer  the  call  of  history  now.  It  can  be 
different this time.
The events happening around us highlight not only 
our sense of duty to promote and protect human rights 
worldwide  but  also  our  sense  of  responsibility,  for  the 
actions  that  we  take  or  fail  to  take  today  will  have  a 
bearing on future generations. Malta drew the attention 
to that belief with its call for a universal declaration on 
human  responsibilities,  made  in  this  very  Hall  during 
the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly in 2009. 
We  know  that  we  are  not  alone  in  the  endeavour. 
We  share  with  other  Member  States  a  commitment  to 
solidarity,  cohesive  ideas  and  a  harmonious  discourse 
in  favour  of  the  sustainability  of  the  planet  and  the 
stewardship of its peoples. That conviction encourages 
us  to  push  forward  with  our  efforts  for  we  are  certain 
that history will be on our side.
In  conclusion,  our  destiny  is  what  we  perceive 
our  future  to  be.  We  are  convinced  that  the  United 
A/67/PV.15
Nations  stands  for  the  betterment  of  humanity.  We 
remain committed to living up to the expectations and 
aspirations to which we adhere under its Charter. Most 
of  all,  we  need  to  embrace  change.  The  future  begins 
with the choices that we make today.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Uri Rosenthal, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Mr. Rosenthal (Netherlands): Last month, I visited 
a refugee camp at the border between Turkey and Syria. 
I met children, women and men, who told me how they 
had  escaped  the  violence  and  suffering  in  their  home 
country. They had f led the bloodshed of a regime that 
is using indiscriminate violence against its own people. 
They  had  f led  a  country  where  children  are  being 
tortured,  women  raped  and  innocent  civilians  killed. 
They had lost their friends, family and homes, but they 
had not lost hope for a better future.
One of the people whom I met near the border was 
Medya,  the  25-year-old  mother  of  a  five-year-old  girl. 
She  had  f led  the  city  of  Homs  eight  months  earlier. 
Now,  she  travels  back  and  forth  between  Homs  and  a 
refugee  camp  in  Turkey  at  great  personal  danger.  She 
risks her life to report to the world on the situation in 
Syria. Her reports are broadcast on major international 
networks.
Medya told me about the terrible events that she had 
witnessed. I was touched by her sorrow and impressed 
by her determination. Her strong desire for freedom is 
something to which we can all relate. Those who have 
struggled for freedom do not give up easily. However, 
it  is  also  clear  that  those  refugees  need  the  support  of 
the international community at large. They need food, 
shelter and security. Ultimately, they need an effective 
United Nations and a strong international legal order.
Promoting the international legal order is enshrined 
in the Constitution of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
It is a mission that we share with many in this Assembly. 
Together  with  49  other  countries,  we  are  helping  to 
establish  legal  order  and  security  in  Afghanistan,  for 
example.  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Dutch  and  the 
other men and women, soldiers and civilians, currently 
serving there.
The  Hague,  a  city  of  peace  and  justice,  is  known 
for  its  contribution  to  the  international  legal  order.  It 
is  home  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
Permanent Court of Arbitration, which are both based 
12-52396
35
A/67/PV.15
at the Peace Palace. Next year, we will proudly celebrate 
its  centenary.  Former  Secretary-General  Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali  recognized  the  role  of  the  Netherlands 
in  the  international  legal  order  by  naming  The  Hague 
the legal capital of the world.
We  need  international  law  to  protect  people, 
societies  and  nations,  or,  as  former  Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan recently wrote, the United Nations Charter 
was  issued  in  the  name  of  we  the  peoples,  not  we  the 
Governments. So we need a stronger international legal 
order,  first,  to  preserve  peace  and  security;  secondly, 
to protect freedom; and thirdly, to promote prosperity. 
That is the task that we face.
A strong international legal order helps to preserve 
peace  and  security.  To  achieve  that  goal,  we  need 
greater unity. I regret the persistent disagreement in the 
Security  Council.  It  has  prevented  the  United  Nations 
from  taking  decisive  action  on  Syria.  The  world  is 
in  desperate  need  of  a  strong,  united  and  determined 
Security Council.
Mediation,  arbitration  and  judicial  settlement  are 
indispensable  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conf licts. 
We  should  cherish  and  develop  those  tools,  as  Deputy 
Secretary-General Jan Eliasson has so rightly said.
Better  implementation  of  existing  treaties  on 
non-proliferation,  arms  control  and  disarmament  is  of 
paramount importance. 
An  effective  international  legal  order  means  that 
countries  are  bound  by  their  promises.  Iran  must 
completely  fulfil  its  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  obligations  and  abide  by  Security  Council 
resolutions.  The  burden  of  proof  is  on  Iran.  As  I  said 
to  my  Iranian  colleague,  Minister  Salehi,  earlier  this 
week:  You  are  the  one  to  convince  the  world  of  the 
peaceful  character  of  your  nuclear  programme  —  not 
us.
The international agendas on nuclear, chemical and 
conventional weapons must lead to concrete results and 
new  treaties.  The  United  Nations  and  the  Conference 
on Disarmament in Geneva need to do better.
The  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons  in  The  Hague  will  this  year  celebrate  its 
fifteenth anniversary. It should stand ready to assist in 
addressing the chemical weapons problem in Syria.
The Netherlands will host the next Nuclear Security 
Summit,  in  2014,  as  part  of  our  efforts  to  enhance 
security and fight nuclear terrorism. 
Negotiations  on  a  robust  and  effective  arms  trade 
treaty should recommence as soon as possible.
A  stronger  legal  order  also  promotes  freedom.  It 
promotes human rights, reinforces the responsibility to 
protect  and  helps  prevent  atrocities.  Greater  freedom 
means  equal  rights  for  men  and  women  alike. Women 
make  up  50  per  cent  of  humankind.  We  need  the  full 
100  per  cent  of  humankind.  It  is  in  every  country’s 
own  interest  to  make  sure  that  women  are  actively 
involved  in  society,  the  economy  and  politics.  They 
must  participate  in  the  power  structures  as  leaders  of 
the world.
Human rights cannot be imposed from the outside. 
But Governments carry the responsibility for observing 
their 
international  human  rights  obligations  and 
commitments. There is therefore a need to communicate 
constantly about the obligations and commitments.
The role of the Human Rights Council in promoting 
freedom is crucial. We need to improve the way in which 
it  functions.  Countries  that  aspire  to  join  the  Council 
should  be  genuinely  committed  to  respecting  human 
rights. I am proud to reiterate our genuine commitment 
and to announce the Dutch candidature for the Human 
Rights Council from 2015 to 2017.
People  should  be  free  to  live  their  lives  in  peace 
and security. Therefore, every State has an obligation to 
prevent aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity 
and  war  crimes.  Prevention  is  key.  But  if  countries 
cannot or will not act, the international community has 
a responsibility to protect.
A  strong  international  and  domestic  legal  order 
promotes  prosperity  and,  let  me  state  it  emphatically, 
economic  growth.  Trade,  investment,  innovation  and 
economic  development  will  all  benefit  from  a  stable, 
predictable and rules-based business climate. 
The  economy  cannot  thrive  in  societies  where 
human  rights  are  violated,  corruption  is  rampant  and 
Government  revenues  are  wasted.  That  is  one  of  the 
lessons of the Arab awakening. Sustainable prosperity 
and sustainable economic growth depend upon a strong, 
legitimate and reliable legal order.
For  that  matter,  free  trade  agreements  and  a  well-
functioning  World  Trade  Organization  are  crucial  for 
stimulating  growth.  According  to  the  World  Bank,  a 
new  global  trade  deal  would  increase  global  welfare 
tremendously.
36 
12-52396
A/67/PV.15
A  good  way  to  promote  foreign  direct  investment 
is  by  enhancing  arbitration  and  conf lict  resolution 
mechanisms.  The  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration  in 
The Hague has an increasingly important role to play.
protection and prosecution. Fifthly, countries that have 
not done so to date should join the International Criminal 
Court. That will ensure that civilians are protected and 
the perpetrators of atrocities are prosecuted. 
Protecting  intellectual  property  rights  effectively 
fosters innovation. We should therefore strengthen the 
World Intellectual Property Organization.
Finally, the Millennium Development Goals need a 
new agenda, with bold ideas to end poverty and plans to 
promote  sustainable  development  and  foster  economic 
growth.  The  private  sector  is  crucial  to  achieving 
those goals, especially when it comes to unlocking the 
potential  of  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises.  To 
quote  renowned  economist  Paul  Collier,  “We  cannot 
make poverty history unless the countries of the bottom 
billion start to grow”. 
The United Nations is indispensable for the agenda 
of  peace,  freedom  and  prosperity.  The  widening  gap 
between  the  increasing  expectations  we  have  of  the 
United  Nations,  on  the  one  hand,  and  of  its  capacity 
to  deliver,  on  the  other,  is  a  cause  of  serious  concern. 
Therefore,  we  need  a  more  effective,  efficient  and 
coherent United Nations.
The  Security  Council  must  act  decisively  when 
serious crimes are involved and international peace and 
security are at stake. All United Nations organizations 
should deliver as one. The Secretary-General’s reform 
proposals must be implemented.
Emerging  Powers  rightly  ask  for  more  inf luence, 
due  to  new  political  and  economic  realities.  The 
Security Council should be reformed while taking those 
realities into account. At the same time, the larger share 
of those emerging Powers in the world economy should 
be  ref lected  in  the  relative  contributions  of  Member 
States to the United Nations budget.
The  Members  of  the  United  Nations  need  to  take 
action  in  five  areas.  First,  countries  should  respect 
universal  human  rights  without  distinction.  That 
key  principle  also  applies  to  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual 
and  transgender  individuals.  Secondly,  the  rights  of 
religious  minorities  should  be  guaranteed  all  over  the 
world.  Governments  should  protect  religious  groups 
against  violence.  Thirdly,  countries  should  recognize 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  as  the  Secretary-General  has  requested. 
Fourthly,  countries  should  adhere  to  the  principle  of 
the responsibility to protect. That applies to prevention, 
That  takes  me  back  to  Syria.  The  Syrian  crisis 
highlights  the  mounting  challenges  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  States  Members.  I  applaud  the  active 
stance  of  the  Secretary-General  with  regard  to  Syria. 
The  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs,  the  World  Food  Programme,  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
and  many  other  organizations  are  providing  crucial 
assistance to the victims of the violence. I want to pay 
explicit tribute to the Governments of Turkey, Lebanon 
and  Jordan  for  their  invaluable  efforts  to  alleviate  the 
suffering of the thousands of refugees.
In  conclusion,  for  me,  meeting  Мedya, 
that 
courageous  Syrian  journalist  and  mother,  has  given  a 
voice to those refugees. I hope that I will meet Medya, 
that  25-year-old  mother  of  a  five-year-old  child,  again 
in the near future in Homs, Syria. I want to see her live 
in an inclusive and prosperous Syria, where democracy 
and human rights replace terror and violence. It is about 
democracy  and  human  rights.  That  is  our  aim.  I  want 
to  see  her  live  in  a  Syria  where  jobs  and  economic 
opportunities have replaced poverty and despair. 
That woman, Мedya, has already shown the courage 
and  the  will  to  contribute  to  Syria’s  future.  Together, 
we,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  should  show 
that  same  courage.  Together,  we  must  preserve  peace, 
protect  freedom  and  promote  prosperity.  Together,  let 
us build a stronger international legal order.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Alfredo  Moreno  Charme,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Chile.
Mr.  Moreno  Charme  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me  to  convey  to  Mr.  Jeremić  our  warmest 
congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  and  to 
once  again  extend  to  him  our  fullest  cooperation.  We 
would  also  like  to  convey  our  gratitude  to  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his  significant  work  during 
the  previous  session.  We  also  congratulate  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  leadership  at  a  time 
marked by the immense scale of the challenges that we 
face. 
Chile’s  foreign  policy  is  based  on  principles  such 
as the defence of democracy, respect for human rights 
12-52396
37
A/67/PV.15
and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Among others, 
those principles form part of the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Their  observance  provides  for  coexistence 
among  States  at  the  international  and  national  levels, 
and  thus  preserves,  for  nations  and  their  peoples, 
the  most  precious  asset  of  national  societies  and  the 
international community, namely, peace.
country  that  we  hope  very  shortly  to  welcome  to  the 
Organization. We strongly believe that the Palestinian 
people have the right to a free, sovereign and democratic 
State. However, we also note that the State of Israel has 
the  right  to  recognized,  safe  and  respected  borders. 
Only in that way will Palestinians and Israelis be able 
to coexist and move forward in peace and harmony. 
Peace  is  the  basic  value  at  the  root  of  this  body. 
However,  despite  the  efforts  made,  serious  problems 
persist  internationally,  as  well  as  nationally  in  some 
Member  States.  We  have  witnessed  the  Arab  Spring, 
which,  by  channelling 
legitimate  expression 
of  its  peoples  for  greater  freedom,  democracy  and 
respect  for  human  rights,  resulted  in  some  cases, 
without  prejudice  to  the  difficulties  that  remain  to  be 
overcome,  in  processes  that  have  led  to  democratic 
changes. Regrettably, in other cases, it has given rise to 
repression and violence.
the 
The  repression  of  their  people  by  dictatorial 
regimes and the inability to peacefully forge democratic 
transition processes are the result of a mistaken way of 
engaging in and understanding politics. Confrontation 
has prevailed over tolerance, violence over dialogue and 
conf lict over understanding, as we see now happening 
in Syria.
From  this  rostrum,  we  reiterate  the  call  to  all 
parties,  in  particular  the  Government  of  that  country, 
for  an  immediate  end  to  the  violence,  respect  for 
human rights and the establishment of the foundations 
for  a  dialogue  that  can  lead  to  a  political  solution  of 
the  current  crisis,  in  which  justice  and  the  rule  of 
law  prevail.  The  international  community  bears  the 
responsibility to support that process, while respecting 
the  principles  of  non-intervention,  territorial  integrity 
and, above all, human life.
We must condemn the intolerance that shows a lack 
of  respect  for  different  cultures  and  beliefs  and  has 
given  rise  to  outbreaks  of  violence.  Nothing  justifies 
the  criminal  act  committed  in  Libya  against  United 
States  diplomats.  We  vigorously  condemn  that  event 
and any other act of violence, which, in that particular 
case,  negates  the  essence  of  the  diplomatic  function, 
which this forum must specifically seek to defend with 
the utmost resolve and determination.
In  addition,  we  have  resolutely  supported  all 
international  efforts  towards  a  just,  legitimate  and 
lasting  solution  of  the  problem  between  Palestine 
and  Israel.  We  recognize  the  Palestinian  State  —  a 
The leaders of the States members of the Assembly 
have the moral obligation and enormous responsibility 
of  seeking  to  harmonize  interests  in  order  for  reason 
to prevail. The United Nations is the sole international 
forum  with  the  necessary  capacity  to  address  the 
maintenance of peace, security, the protection of human 
rights and international development cooperation. It is 
therefore our responsibility to strive to find the means 
for  consensus  to  enable  us  to  cooperate  in  resolving 
current  conf licts,  averting  future  ones,  preserving 
peace  and  launching  a  cycle  of  development  for  the 
benefit of our peoples.
Chile, through a sustained effort, has enjoyed more 
than  100  years  of  peaceful  international  coexistence 
on  the  basis  of  understanding  and  dialogue,  as  well 
as  legally  and  politically  respected  border  agreements 
and  treaties,  as  borne  out  by  our  peaceful  vocation. 
Nearly 40 years ago, however, my country experienced 
a crisis that shattered its institutional order and divided 
our  society,  leading  to  a  confrontation  with  tragic 
consequences. Thanks to a united effort, an exemplary 
peaceful  transition  was  possible.  Despite  the  deep 
divisions  that  were  a  hallmark  of  that  time,  we  were 
able  to  move  forward  in  building  a  solid  foundation 
owing to the willingness to reach an understanding that 
prevailed  among  political  forces  that  previously  held 
irreconcilable positions.
Moreover,  despite  its  differences,  Latin  America 
has learned to live in diversity and has progressed more 
than  other  regions  in  the  past  decade.  In  our  region, 
various  kinds  of  Governments  that  propose  different 
political  and  development  models  coexist.  However, 
through  dialogue,  understanding  and  reason,  we  have 
reached consensus on establishing regional integration 
mechanisms  that  have  enabled  us  to  move  forward 
with  common  goals.  That  policy,  based  on  respect 
for  differences  and  the  pursuit  of  mutually  beneficial 
integration, is at the heart of our foreign policy.
Just as mutual respect and human understanding are 
ground rules of our national policy to achieve freedom, 
progress  and  social  justice,  the  same  should  occur  in 
38 
12-52396
A/67/PV.15
the international political arena. This is the best forum 
for  the  leaders  of  nations  to  debate  ideas,  free  from 
absolute,  exclusive  or  discriminatory  positions,  which 
inevitably lead to confrontation. Many of the problems 
facing us are due to the fact that the virtue of dialogue, 
which is the only means for our mutual understanding 
and civilized coexistence, is increasingly undermined.
and  democratic  organ  that  is  in  line  with  the  new 
international reality should be formed. Chile reiterates 
its support for a Security Council reform that envisages 
the expansion of its membership in the permanent and 
non-permanent  categories,  thus  ensuring  due  regional 
representation  and  enhanced 
its 
working methods.
transparency  of 
However,  countries  alone  cannot  always  find 
the  basis  for  understanding  in  order  to  achieve  the 
political  stability  that  makes  solid  institution-building 
and  economic  and  social  development  possible.  The 
international  community  also  has  a  responsibility. 
We believe that it is crucial not only to help countries 
emerge from crisis situations, but also to support them 
in peacebuilding and development in a comprehensive 
way. That means support for the rebuilding of political 
institutions and for internal reconciliation processes and 
social and economic development, which are tasks for 
which the Peacebuilding Commission was established. 
We strongly support its work.
In  that  context,  with  regard  to  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti,  we  believe  that  the 
required  modifications  to  its  composition  and  size 
must  be  offset  by  strengthening  the  presence  of  the 
development  component  of  the  United  Nations  system 
through  its  agencies,  funds  and  programmes.  That 
is  fundamental  to  helping  the  reconstruction  and 
development of Haiti.
In  that  spirit  of  cooperation  in  peacebuilding, 
we  also  welcome  with  satisfaction,  a  sense  of 
responsibility  and  enthusiasm  the  invitation  of  the 
Colombian  Government  to  assist  in  the  negotiations 
process launched to put an end to the internal conf lict 
that has affected that brother country for more than 50 
years,  causing  so  much  suffering.  We  commend  the 
willingness and readiness of the parties and the courage 
of the Government of Colombia, which, building on the 
circumstances  brought  about  through  its  efforts  and 
patience  in  recent  years,  took  the  decision  to  initiate 
a peace process that, we trust, will end successfully to 
the benefit of all Colombians.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
We  have  conveyed  our  vision  of  what  we  believe 
to  be  the  most  profound  purpose  of  politics.  On  this 
occasion,  we  would  also  like  to  address  the  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform.  In  order  to  strengthen 
its  capacities  and  legitimacy,  a  more  representative 
We also wish to reiterate our opposition to the veto 
power. However, given its existence, Chile supports the 
call for the veto not to be used in situations of crimes 
against  humanity,  war  crimes,  genocide  or  ethnic 
cleansing.  The  countries  with  the  veto  power  have  a 
great  responsibility  and  the  obligation  to  use  it  with 
moderation  and  transparency  in  seeking  to  resolve 
crises,  putting  aside  national  or  ideological  positions 
that hamper the system and render it ineffective.
In that context, our commitment to the main themes 
on the international peace and security agenda has led 
us  to  submit  our  candidature  for  Security  Council  for 
the period of 2014-2015. As part of that effort, we wish 
to help strengthen the effectiveness of the multilateral 
system  based  on  democratic  values  and  principles, 
namely, equality and individual freedoms and solidarity, 
which are substantial aspects of our foreign policy. We 
also wish to contribute to that from the perspective of 
Latin America and the Caribbean.
Democracy demands respect for, and the promotion 
of,  human  rights,  which  requires  full  implementation 
of  the  rule  of  law.  Chile  is  firmly  committed  to  that. 
Our own experience regarding a shattered democracy, 
with tragic consequences for the rights of individuals, 
which  I  have  already  mentioned,  underscores  for  us 
the  importance  of  developing  public  policies.  It  also 
highlights  the  need  to  implement  the  instruments 
made available to us by the international system, with 
particular  emphasis  on  those  that  support  the  most 
vulnerable,  namely,  children,  women,  young  people, 
indigenous  peoples,  people  with  disabilities  and  the 
elderly.  In  that  regard,  we  support  strengthening  the 
functioning  of  the  human  rights  treaty  body  system 
and  the  work  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights.
In  addition  to  the  issue  of  peace,  another  acute 
problem for nations today is the international financial 
crisis. It has wrought havoc on markets, trade, finance, 
investment and, worse still, employment. As in the case 
of politics, where confrontation and the lack of dialogue 
impede  solutions  and  compromises,  in  economics  the 
12-52396
39
A/67/PV.15
improper  practices  of  excessive  spending,  a  lack  of 
fiscal tightening and the absence of adequate regulatory 
frameworks triggered the crisis that currently affects us 
and whose end is not yet in sight.
The  experience  of  our  country  and  our  region  has 
taught  us  harshly  in  recent  decades  that  progress  and 
true development require measures that are not populist 
or  short  term.  Governments  must  act  responsibly  and 
control  public  spending  without  turning  to  that  as 
an  easy  solution  to  artificially  promote  an  economic 
boom.  The  current  crisis  blatantly  shows  the  painful 
consequences of such policies. A rigorous fiscal policy 
and the establishment of stabilization funds, like some 
countries  have  created,  such  as  Norway  on  the  basis 
of  oil  and  Chile  on  the  basis  of  copper,  are  examples 
of  efficient  mechanisms  for  economic  stability  and 
balancing global cycles.
Similarly,  in  seeking  solutions  to  the  crisis,  we 
must  avoid  the  temptation  to  resort  to  artificial  and 
short-term  measures.  There  are  voices  clamouring 
for  the  imposition  of  protectionist  practices  to  boost 
the  economy.  Such  practices  may  benefit  a  specific 
economic sector in the short term. However, they have a 
f leeting effect. Let us not fool ourselves. Protectionism 
protects inefficient industries and provides citizens with 
poor quality and more expensive products. Worse still, 
it undermines productivity, eliminates competition and 
entrepreneurship and hampers real development. 
Our  experience  shows  us  that  we  must  take  the 
opposite path, namely, greater openness and more free 
trade.  Threats  to  democracy  are  thereby  overcome 
through greater democracy. Economic growth is boosted 
by greater openness to markets and fewer obstacles to 
global  trade.  Years  ago,  our  country  launched  trade 
liberalization  by,  first,  unilaterally  reducing  its  tariffs 
and,  subsequently,  through  free  trade  agreements 
that  today  extend  to  more  than  60  countries  and  that 
represent more than 85 per cent of world gross domestic 
product. Chile has the most free trade agreements and 
has the world’s eighth-lowest tariffs, at less than 1 per 
cent on average.
Despite external difficulties, that policy has enabled 
us to increase our growth by 6 per cent in the past two 
years  and  to  achieve  the  region’s  highest  per  capita 
income.  In  turn,  it  has  made  it  possible  to  reduce  the 
level  of  unemployment,  poverty  and  extreme  poverty 
by creating new jobs and social protection programmes. 
Real  and  effective  integration  goes  beyond  trade. 
We are also pursuing shared projects with other nations, 
such as the recent Pacific Alliance initiative, launched 
together with Peru, Mexico and Colombia. It focuses on 
the integration not only of goods and services, but also 
the  free  movement  of  people  and  capital,  thus  sharing 
the  full  potential  of  our  economies.  Such  initiatives 
with  Pacific  Rim  countries  are  not  new.  In  1994, 
we  were  already  part  of  the  Asia-Pacific  Economic 
Cooperation, seeking to accelerate trade liberalization 
in  a  broad  region  that  unites  the  largest  economies  on 
both  sides  of  that  ocean.  Subsequently,  in  2005,  along 
with Singapore, New Zealand and Brunei Darussalam, 
we  launched  a  process  to  forge  an  ambitious  free 
trade  agreement.  Today,  that  project,  known  as  the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership, aspires to create the largest 
global  free  trade  area  with  the  accession  of  new 
members, including the United States.
Two  years  ago,  only  days  after  the  Government 
that I represent assumed its duties, a natural disaster of 
global proportions, namely, the fifth-largest earthquake 
registered  in  the  world  since  such  disasters  were 
recorded, caused destruction and death in our country. 
Chile  recovered  thanks  to  the  solidarity  and  unity  of 
its people and as a result of the generous assistance of 
friendly nations and organizations. Recently, President 
Sebastian Piñera Echeñique affirmed the announcement 
that he made at that time, pointing out that, by the end 
of  his  term  in  office,  all  material  damage  would  be 
fully rebuilt.
In  recent  years,  we  have  seen  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  natural  disasters  —  f loods,  tornados, 
typhoons, earthquakes and mudslides. There is no place 
on the planet that is not either suffering or has suffered 
from  a  natural  disaster.  No  country  has  the  capacity 
to  deal  with  disasters  of  that  scale  alone.  There  is 
therefore a need for the assistance and solidarity among 
nations that we saw not only during the earthquake in 
2010,  but  also  at  the  time  of  the  collapse  of  the  San 
José  mine,  which  affected  33  miners.  The  lives  of 
those miners were saved thanks to their courage, to the 
determination  of  the  Government  of  Chile  to  rescue 
them and to international cooperation.
In  Chile,  we  have 
strengthened  disaster 
preparedness  and  early-warning  systems  and  have 
enhanced  the  national  civil  protection  agency  in 
order  to  ensure  greater  coordination  at  the  national, 
regional  and  local  levels.  However,  the  occurrence 
of  some  of  those  natural  phenomena  is  also  linked  to 
40 
12-52396
environmental protection. Preserving the environment 
is  another  topic  that  merits  the  attention  of  the 
international community and means that we should act 
responsibly to safeguard for future generations a clean 
environment and sustainable development that respects 
nature.  The  recommendations  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  namely, 
sustainable  development  goals,  financing  mechanisms 
and a mechanism to transfer and distribute clean energy, 
should now be implemented.
Chile assumed the position of the first pro tempore 
presidency  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States (CELAC) with great satisfaction. The 
33 member States of Latin America and the Caribbean 
agreed 
the  Community’s  guiding  principles  and 
purposes,  including  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
democracy  and  human  rights,  political  coordination, 
integration,  the  fight  against  poverty  and  inequality 
and  stronger  global  engagement.  Among  the  issues 
of  interest  to  CELAC  that  I  would  like  to  underscore 
in  this  forum  is  support  for  the  legitimate  claims  of 
the  Argentine  Republic  in  the  dispute  for  sovereignty 
over  the  Malvinas  Islands,  South  Georgia  Islands  and 
South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime 
areas. We call for a resumption of negotiations with the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
in order to find a peaceful and lasting solution to that 
dispute. CELAC also wishes to underscore the need to 
put  an  end  to  the  economic  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  The  General 
Assembly  has  adopted  important  resolutions  on  both 
matters.
We live in a world of great opportunities, but also 
significant challenges and global threats that require the 
coordinated  action  of  the  international  community  in 
order to ensure an appropriate response. Only through 
effective,  efficient  and  inclusive  multilateralism  will 
we  find  the  best  way  to  respond  to  those  great  global 
challenges. 
The  United  Nations  system  has  the  capacity  to 
exercise leadership in pursuing international peace and 
security,  in  promoting  sustainable  development  and 
cooperation  and  in  protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights. Also, in seeking to resolve the global economic 
crisis,  in  environmental  protection  and  in  the  rapid 
international response to prevent and provide assistance 
in the case of natural disasters, we, as Member States, 
must  demonstrate  the  political  will  to  make  that 
A/67/PV.15
capacity  a  reality  and  thus  ensure  that  the  politically 
correct action is also morally correct.
The President of Bolivia mentioned, in terms that do 
not comply with the norms of good coexistence among 
nations, that country’s maritime claim (see A/67/PV.11). 
Along with the formal note of reply that was submitted 
to the President of the General Assembly, in addressing 
this  debate  I  feel  obliged  to  categorically  reject  the 
position,  affirmation  and  charges  made  against  my 
country.  It  is  timely  to  reiterate  to  the  Assembly  that 
there  are  no  outstanding  border  issues  between  our 
States.  Those  matters  are  clearly  set  out  in  the  1904 
Treaty of Peace and Friendship, and are fully respected.     
Chile  has  fully  met  its  obligations  under  that 
Treaty, allowing the most extensive free transit through 
its  territory  by  means  of  high-quality  infrastructure, 
as acknowledged by the Bolivians themselves. Bolivia 
has no right to claim access to the sea. The respect of 
border  agreements  between  neighbouring  countries  is 
one  of  the  cornerstones  for  coexistence  among  States 
and is the guarantor of international peace, as prevails 
between our countries.
Before  this  Organization,  Chile  reaffirms  that 
the  Constitution  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
adopted in 2009, introduced provisions that contravene 
the framework of international law, which governs the 
peaceful coexistence among nations. Those provisions 
are therefore not enforceable with regard to our country. 
As  declared  by  a  committee  of  lawyers  appointed  by 
the  League  of  Nations  in  1921  and  as  acknowledged 
at  the  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Organization of American States, held in the Bolivian 
city  of  Cochabamba,  this  is  strictly  a  bilateral  matter. 
Chile has continued to convey to Bolivia its readiness 
for  brotherly  dialogue,  based  on  full  respect  for  the 
treaties in force, which provide significant benefits for 
both peoples. It is in the hands of Bolivia to accept that 
invitation.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Bernard  Kamillius  Membe,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania.
Mr. Membe (United Republic of Tanzania): At the 
outset,  allow  me  to  convey  the  fraternal  greetings  of 
His Excellency Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President 
of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  who  could  not 
attend  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  due  to 
other equally important engagements. 
12-52396
41
A/67/PV.15
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  I  wish  to  congratulate 
Mr. Jeremić on his well-deserved election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. It 
is indeed a pleasure for me to participate in the general 
debate under his presidency. Similarly, I congratulate his 
predecessor and commend him on the manner in which 
he steered the work of the sixty-sixth session. It would 
be remiss of me not to acknowledge and commend the 
Secretary-General  and  the  entire  Secretariat  on  their 
service to the Organization.
Echoing  the  President’s  words  during  the  opening 
of  the  session,  we  meet  here  amid  upheavals  of 
unprecedented  scope,  characterized  by  multiple  intra- 
and  inter-State  conf licts  in  the  world  and  a  time  of 
emerging  and  worsening  conf licts,  most  of  which 
are  taking  place  in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  (see 
A/67/PV.1).  Those  conf licts  have  caused  the  deaths 
and suffering of millions of people, including children, 
women and the elderly. Undoubtedly, a new world order 
of lasting peace, security and freedom, as envisaged in 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  can  be  achieved  through 
dialogue and reconciliation.
We applaud the fact that the theme of this general 
debate  is  “Adjustment  or  settlement  of  international 
disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful  means”.  Similarly, 
we  welcome  the  many  initiatives  undertaken  at  the 
national, regional and international levels in promoting 
that matter.
During  the  50  years  of  the  independence  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  we  have  witnessed  and 
respected the effectiveness of preventive diplomacy. We 
have participated in various mediation processes in the 
region  and  on  the  continent,  such  as  in  Burundi,  Côte 
d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya 
and Madagascar. The involvement of former Presidents 
of  Tanzania  the  late  Mwalimu  Julius  Kambarage 
Nyerere  and  Benjamin  William  Mkapa,  as  well  as 
His  Excellency  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  in  those  processes 
is  a  clear  testimony  of  our  continued  commitment  to 
preventive diplomacy.
We  are  all  too  aware  of  the  dire  consequences 
of  conf lict,  particularly  when  all  the  mechanisms 
provided  for  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
to  resolve  conf licts  fail  to  find  a  permanent  solution 
and  to  ensure  lasting  peace.  The  situation  in  Syria  is 
a  case  in  point.  It  is  important  that  we  find  ways  to 
strengthen  early-warning  mechanisms  and  to  prevent 
conf licts  before  they  occur.  In  no  case  should  we 
pursue actions that would encourage parties in conf lict 
to resort to armed solutions instead of dialogue. While 
facilitating dialogue, it is also important that we uphold 
the principles of impartiality, objectivity and respect for 
international law. The unity of the entire membership is 
crucial in ending impunity and human rights violations, 
wherever they occur.
The pacific settlement of disputes as provided under 
Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  has 
never been so pertinent. In the interest of maintaining 
peace  and  security,  we  should  learn  to  keep  our 
differences aside and not allow them to create divisions 
among us. I believe the presidency of Mr. Vuk Jeremić 
will guide us in that direction.
Tanzania is the current Chair of the Southern Africa 
Development  Community  (SADC)  Organ  on  Politics, 
Defence and Security. We have taken up the mantle of 
leadership of the Organ at a time when some countries of 
the region face security challenges. Under the umbrella 
of SADC and the International Conference on the Great 
Lakes  Region  of  Africa,  we  have  resolved  to  find  a 
durable solution to the crisis in the eastern part of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, where rebel groups 
such as the Mouvement du 23 mars are destabilizing and 
threatening the peace and security of the entire region. 
Members of the International Conference on the Great 
Lakes Region have agreed to establish an international 
neutral  force  comprising  4,000  troops  to  address  the 
problem. Tanzania has committed to contribute troops 
to the neutral force. Through the African Union (AU), 
we  are  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  the 
deployment  of  this  international  neutral  force  is  done 
under the mandate of the United Nations.
Likewise,  Tanzania  will  work  assiduously  with 
other  SADC  member  States  to  support  the  return 
to  constitutional  normalcy  in  Madagascar  and  the 
finalization  of  the  drafting  a  new  constitution  in 
Zimbabwe,  which  will  open  the  way  to  democratic 
elections  by  June  2013.  We  proceed  in  that  endeavour 
with  the  firm  belief  that  a  solution  in  both  countries 
will  finally  be  achieved  through  the  effective  and 
constructive engagement of all parties concerned.
Twelve  years  ago,  in  the  month  of  September, 
we  met  in  this  very  Hall  to  adopt  the  United  Nations 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which  gave 
birth  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
42 
12-52396
Three  years  from  now,  we  will  reach  the  deadline  we 
agreed.  We  have  undoubtedly  made  some  progress  on 
many fronts, but most developing States are unlikely to 
achieve all the goals by the deadline of 2015.
in 
My  country  has  also  made  progress 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  It  attained  Goal  2,  on 
universal primary education, back in 2009. It has also 
registered considerable gains on Goal 3, on promoting 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women,  as 
well  as  on  Goal  6,  on  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
and  other  diseases.  We  have  also  achieved  moderate 
results  on  MDGs  4  and  5,  dealing  with  infant  and 
maternal mortality, respectively. However, much more 
remains to be done to emancipate our people from the 
traps of poverty.
Our  goals  to  improve  the  livelihood  of  our  people 
must go beyond 2015. It is therefore necessary that we 
consider the post-MDG agenda as one that complements, 
instead of diverting our focus from the current MDGs. 
My delegation proposes a second generation of MDGs, 
whereby  all  our  efforts  are  directed  to  ensure  that 
MDGs  are  achieved  post-2015  in  those  countries  that 
will not have achieved them by 2015.
At the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, 
President Kikwete expressed serious concern regarding 
global  food  insecurity  (see  A/66/PV.15).  Since  then, 
the  situation  has  worsened  and  the  vulnerability  of 
many  developing  countries  has  increased.  We  must 
work  collectively  to  address  food  insecurity.  We 
must  increase  food  production  and  productivity  on 
a  sustainable  basis,  strengthen  agricultural  systems, 
and  establish  early-warning  mechanisms,  as  we  also 
must  develop  effective  responses  to  calamities  such 
as  those  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Sahel  region. 
While ensuring food security, we need also to address 
the issue of nutrition. It is in that regard that Tanzania is 
a proud member of the Scaling Up Nutrition movement.
At the national level, the Government is undertaking 
various  initiatives  to  ensure  food  security  through 
public-private  partnerships.  My  Government  has  had 
the  pleasure  of  hosting  the  Africa  Green  Revolution 
Forum,  in  Arusha,  which  concluded  today,  with  the 
participation  of  African  leaders,  ministers,  private 
agribusiness  firms,  financial  institutions,  farmers, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  agricultural 
experts. The Forum was organized by the Alliance for 
a Green Revolution in Africa.
A/67/PV.15
United  Nations  reforms  are  long  overdue.  The 
United  Nations  is  composed  of  its  States  Members, 
without which there is no United Nations. If we Member 
States cannot agree on reforms then the United Nations 
will never be reformed. It is a fact that we have had long 
discussions without reaching concrete agreements. The 
time has come to walk the talk.
It  is  important  to  remind  ourselves  that  Africa  is 
the  largest  regional  group  in  the  United  Nations  and 
the  only  continent  that  is  not  represented  among  the 
permanent seats on the Security Council. That situation 
equally overlooks the fact that most discussions in the 
Security Council concern Africa. We, African leaders 
and  the  African  Union,  have  voiced  our  sentiments 
and agreed to have two permanent seats with the veto 
power. We will continue working together based on the 
agreed Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, 
to which we all subscribed. I therefore appeal to Africa 
to maintain that momentum and solidarity.
My  country  will  continue  to  support  reform 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Delivering  as 
One  initiative,  which  has  been  implemented  with 
considerable  success  in  Tanzania  since  2007.  The 
Government  will  continue  to  support  that  process, 
including  its  continuation  in  programme  countries. 
The  endorsement  of  that  initiative  by  some  members 
of  the  Assembly  is  a  clear  testimony  to  the  value  of 
the  approach.  We  believe  that  the  2012  quadrennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  will  take  into  account 
those positive achievements.
The  United  Nations  is  anchored  in  the  principles 
of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and 
democracy.  We  the  Member  States  must  implement 
what  we  deliberate  and  agree  upon,  otherwise  the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations  will  be  at  stake.  The 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  have 
adopted many resolutions on Palestinian independence. 
Tanzania  applauds  the  admission  of  the  Palestinian 
State  to  UNESCO.  As  we  do  so,  Tanzania  would  like 
once again to appeal to the major Powers and donors in 
UNESCO to review their decision to punish UNESCO 
by  withdrawing  their  contributions.  That  decision 
impacts  more  on  developing  countries,  in  particular 
African countries, which draw on up to 65 per cent of 
UNESCO funds in education, science and culture.
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  Tanzania  calls 
upon  the  Secretary-General  to  continue  his  mediation 
efforts in bringing together the Government of Morocco 
12-52396
43
A/67/PV.15
and  the  leadership  of  Western  Sahara  to  resolve  the 
longstanding  crisis.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
encourages  Morocco  to  rejoin  the  AU  so  that  together 
we can find a durable solution on the independence of 
Western Sahara.
Tanzania  remains  troubled  by  applications  of 
unilateral  sanctions  and  embargos  imposed  against 
Cuba  and  its  people.  As  President  Kikwete  said  at 
the  previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/66/PV.15),  Tanzania  is  in  full  solidarity  with  the 
people  of  Cuba  in  demanding  the  end  to  all  unilateral 
sanctions and embargos against them.
We Member States have the duty and responsibility 
to make the world a better place. We should maintain the 
sanctity of humankind before our ambitions and desires. 
In order to achieve that, we should recommit ourselves 
to  and  uphold  the  objectives  and  principles  contained 
in  the  Declaration  on  Principles  of  International  Law 
concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among 
States  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations (resolution 2625 (XXV)).
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Djibrill Ypènè Bassolé, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Regional Cooperation of Burkina Faso.
Mr.  Bassolé  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French):  It 
is always a very significant moment for the delegation 
of Burkina Faso when we find ourselves present at this 
traditional  meeting  that  opens  the  annual  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  For  us,  it  is  a  special  moment 
for  ref lection  on  how  the  world  is  progressing  and  for 
sketching ways to build a world of peace, security and 
solidarity.  The  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly is taking place in an atmosphere of uncertainty 
related  to  the  very  difficult  international  economic 
situation and the growing threats to international peace 
and security. The challenges that the situation poses to 
world  require  of  us  greater  courage,  effort,  creativity 
and solidarity, if all of us wish one day to achieve the 
objectives  of  peace  and  development  so  dear  to  the 
international community.
This year, Burkina Faso has been tested by a food 
crisis resulting from poor rainfall. The grain and cereal 
shortage  was  exacerbated  by  a  massive  inf low  of  tens 
of  thousands  of  refugees  from  neighbouring  Mali, 
sometimes with all of their cattle, as a result of the crisis 
that has raged in that brother country since 17 January. 
The situation has led the Government of Burkina Faso 
to  undertake  vigorous  and  urgent  measures  that  have 
enabled  us  to  contain  its  negative  impact  on  the  most 
vulnerable  strata  of  society  and  welcome  our  brothers 
and sisters from Mali in acceptable human conditions. I 
should like to reiterate the gratitude of the Government 
and the people of Burkina Faso to the relevant specialized 
agencies of the United Nations systems, the Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the 
West  African  Economic  and  Monetary  Union,  the 
Kingdom of Morocco, the Republic of China (Taiwan), 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Japan, Tunisia, 
Egypt and Azerbaijan, who have lent us their assistance 
to  ensure  that  refugees  and  worst-off  populations  of 
Burkina Faso are able to live dignified lives.
At  the  political  level,  Burkina  Faso,  within  the 
framework  of  the  implementation  of  the  conclusions 
of  the  Consultative  Council  on  Political  Reforms,  is 
continuing  the  strengthening  and  consolidation  of  its 
democratic  process.  Following  the  successful  holding 
of  a  biometric  registration  effort  covering  the  entire 
national territory, December of this year will witness the 
organization of joint legislative and municipal elections 
on the basis of greater transparency and fairness.
Turning to the economy, Burkina Faso is continuing 
its policy of building a strong and prosperous economy 
to  serve  the  basic  needs  of  its  population.  To  do  that, 
we  have  adopted  a  strategy  of  accelerated  growth  and 
sustainable development to fulfil our drive for progress 
towards  becoming  an  emerging  country  and  enabling 
it  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
welcome the backing of Burkina Faso’s partners for that 
strategy,  whose  ultimate  goal  is  to  achieve  strong  and 
sustained  economic  growth  that  serves  to  multiplies 
revenue  and  improves  the  population’s  quality  of  life, 
while  taking  into  account  the  guiding  principles  of 
sustainable management of natural resources. 
The annual foreign financing needs of the strategy 
remain  significant,  despite  the  efforts  undertaken  by 
the  Government  of  Burkina  Faso  on  the  basis  of  our 
own  resources.  We  are  hopeful  that  our  bilateral  and 
multilateral partners, as they have done in the past, will 
be at our side to ensure a successful implementation of 
the strategy. We wish to convey our gratitude to those 
that have already demonstrated their solidarity with us.
Burkina Faso is aware that there can be no sustainable 
development  without  peace  and  stability.  That  is  why 
President  Blaise  Compaoré  has  turned  dialogue  and 
mediation  into  new  levers  for  the  maintenance  of 
harmony  and  understanding  among  peoples.  We  are 
44 
12-52396
very  grateful  to  President  Vuk  Jeremić  for  having 
placed this session of the General Assembly under the 
banner,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. 
That theme underscores the importance of resorting to 
peaceful  means  as  an  appropriate  mechanism  for  the 
settlement  of  disputes.  Burkina  Faso  fully  associates 
itself with the choice of that topic which, following on 
the  sixty-sixth  session,  will  enable  the  international 
community  to  deepen  its  thinking  and  commit  itself 
resolutely  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conf licts 
through dialogue to avoid stalemate and the escalation 
of  violence,  which  reduces  to  nought  our  efforts 
aimed  at  promoting  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development.
It is along those lines that the President of Burkina 
Faso has accepted the mediation mission that its peers 
from the Economic Community of West African States 
have entrusted him within the framework of the crisis 
in  Mali.  The  ECOWAS  mediation,  whose  goal  is  to 
resolve,  through  dialogue,  the  dual  institutional  and 
security  crisis  that  is  raging  in  Mali,  has  focused  its 
efforts on restoring the normal constitutional order and 
to setting up stable transition bodies that are accepted by 
Malians and recognized by the international community 
in  order  to  implement  the  road  map  contained  in  the 
framework  agreement  of  6  April,    which  deals  with 
the  management  of  the  crisis  and  the  organization  of 
elections.  Burkina  Faso  will  continue  to  work  under 
the  ECOWAS  framework,  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community,  towards  Mali’s  reunification 
and reconciliation so as to create conditions conducive 
to  the  holding  of  free  and  democratic  elections 
throughout all of Mali. 
The  establishment  of  stable  and  lasting  peace 
in  Mali  will  require  a  comprehensive  approach 
combining  political  dialogue  and  the  use  of  force 
mainly aimed at neutralizing extremist terrorist groups 
of a transnational nature, whose presence in the north 
of  Mali  is  likely  to  irretrievably  compromise  efforts 
aimed  at  better  governance  and  social  and  economic 
development.  The  President  of  Burkina  Faso,  with  the 
assistance of President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, will 
continue  in  a  clear-headed  way  to  seek  solutions  to 
the  deep-rooted  causes  of  the  crisis  undermining  our 
subregion,  a  crisis  which  the  armed  rebellion  has  but 
exacerbated.  I  therefore  call  upon  the  Malian  armed 
movements to renounce the systematic use of arms as a 
means to achieve their demands. I urge them to respect 
A/67/PV.15
the  fundamental  freedoms  of  their  fellow  citizens  and 
to  clearly  distance  themselves  from  extremist  and 
terrorist  movements  in  order  to  promote  the  values  of 
dialogue and democracy to which Mali is so wedded.
The crisis situation in the north of Mali is a tangible 
manifestation  of  the  type  of  threat  facing  all  of  the 
countries  of  the  Sahel  region.  I  therefore  welcome  the 
timely initiative of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that 
brought  us  together  on  26  September  on  the  margins 
of  the  General  Assembly  around  the  issue  of  peace, 
security  and  development  in  the  States  of  the  Sahel 
region.  I  renew  my  gratitude  and  reiterate  to  him  the 
regard and appreciation of the Government of Burkina 
Faso for his availability and commitment to peace and 
development in Africa and throughout the world.
in  Darfur 
Always  working  for 
international  peace  and 
security,  Burkina  Faso  contributes  to  peacekeeping 
operations 
and  Guinea-Bissau.  On 
Guinea-Bissau,  Burkina  Faso  encourages  the  efforts 
undertaken by the transitional bodies to quickly restore 
constitutional  order  and  urges  all  of  the  country’s 
stakeholders  to  ensure  a  consensual  and  inclusive 
transition and to create the best possible conditions in 
which to implement priority reforms, organize free and 
transparent presidential elections and entrench the rule 
of  law.  On  Darfur,  we  encourage  the  parties  to  better 
implement the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur, and 
we  continue  to  contribute  through  the  implementation 
and  follow-up  mechanism  provided  for  by  the  Doha 
Document. 
On the issue of the Western Sahara, Burkina Faso 
welcomes  the  determination  of  the  parties  to  explore 
appropriate  ways  and  means  to  achieve  a  fair  and 
agreed  political  settlement  of  the  issue.  The  current 
status  quo  is  neither  viable  nor  of  benefit  to  any  of 
the  parties,  given  its  impact  on  the  subregion’s  peace 
and security. That is why my country has continuously 
promoted dialogue and compromise aimed at achieving 
an acceptable political solution between the parties. In 
that regard, we believe that the Moroccan initiative for 
the negotiation of an autonomous status for the Saharan 
region could be an appropriate way to settle differences.
The  world  is  experiencing  great  uncertainty  and 
anxiety  as  a  result  of  the  international  economic  and 
financial  instability,  the  increase  in  poverty,  ongoing 
environmental degradation and the increase in natural 
disasters. In particular, the recent international financial 
crises,  which  seriously  compromised  the  balance  of 
12-52396
45
A/67/PV.15
our  economies,  are  sorely  testing  the  cohesion  of  our 
societies. They have an impact on all of us and require 
of us constant vigilance and sustained solidarity. 
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), held from 18 to 22 June in Brazil, 
rightly  reminded  us  of  our  shared  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  to  protect  our  planet  and  to  ensure 
sustainable  development  for  future  generations.  It 
is  essential  that  efforts  continue  on  the  basis  of  the 
consensus  reached  at  the  Conference  in  order  to  find 
acceptable  compromises  that  take  into  account  the 
interests of the various regions of the world. 
Burkina  Faso  attaches  special  importance  to  all 
issues  related  to  the  empowerment  of  women.  To  that 
end,  we  have  spared  no  effort  to  improve  women’s 
legal  and  social  status  in  our  country.  The  First  Lady 
of  Burkina  Faso,  Mrs.  Chantal  Compaoré,  Goodwill 
Ambassador  and  Coordinator  of  the  International 
Campaign to Ban Female Genital Mutilation Worldwide, 
co-chaired during this session the high-level side event 
on  banning  female  genital  mutilation.  That  is  yet 
another demonstration of her well-known commitment 
to the defence of women’s rights and the improvement 
of the status of women. In that connection, we reiterate 
our full support for the African initiative to introduce 
at this session a draft resolution aimed at a global ban 
on female genital mutilation. We hope that it will enjoy 
the support of the entire international community. 
Furthermore, we welcome efforts undertaken since 
the  launch  of  UN-Women  and  we  hope  that  this  new 
body  will  strengthen  United  Nations  activities  aimed 
at  the  empowerment  of  women,  the  defence  of  their 
rights and the promotion of gender equality, especially 
in developing countries.
Burkina Faso believes in multilateralism, solidarity 
between  peoples  and  the  virtue  of  dialogue  among 
nations. In that regard, my delegation notes with great 
satisfaction the calm atmosphere that currently prevails 
in the relations between the Republic of China (Taiwan) 
and  the  People’s  Republic  of  China.  That  would 
argue  in  favour  of  granting  the  Republic  of  China  its 
rightful  place  among  the  family  of  nations,  including 
through  its  meaningful  participation  in  the  activities 
of international organizations such as the International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The nature of the threats and challenges facing the 
world demands of us a better sharing of responsibilities 
through  a  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Such  reform 
remains  a  topic  of  great  concern  at  the  very  heart  of 
global  governance.  We  hope  that  the  negotiations 
launched  within  the  framework  of  this  reform  will 
result  in  acceptable  compromises  that  can  strengthen 
the effectiveness and standing of the United Nations as 
it faces the new challenges of our changing world. Only 
in that way will we genuinely move towards building a 
more fair and united world.
My  delegation  listened  with  great  interest  to  the 
inaugural  address  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  in  which  he 
covered  all  the  major  issues  of  concern  to  today’s 
democratic  societies. 
to 
congratulate  him  on  his  election  and  welcome  the 
vision with which he would like to endow our common 
Organization.  He  can  rest  assured  of  our  delegation’s 
readiness for full cooperation.
I  would 
therefore 
like 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our gratitude to his predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for his efforts 
during  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  Assembly.  That 
session’s very welcome results bear witness to the skill 
and effectiveness with which he led our work.
The Acting President:  I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ahmet Davutoğlu, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Turkey.
Mr.  Davutoğlu  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  my  dear  friend  His  Excellency 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as the President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I believe 
that, with his able leadership, he will contribute greatly 
to the work of the Assembly.
I  want  to  be  frank  and  speak  the  language  of  the 
peoples we all represent. Every year, we all gather here 
at  the  United  Nations,  the  embodiment  of  the  human 
quest  for  peace,  security  and  international  order.  We 
exchange views on the daunting challenges that we all 
face  and  express  our  strong  commitment  to  resolving 
them. On many matters, we speak as one, yet we often 
fail  to  act  in  unity.  We  express  our  commitment  to 
the  settlement  of  frozen  conf licts,  but  there  is  still  no 
prospect for a solution to many such conf licts. 
For  instance,  we  have  time  and  again  declared 
our support for a two-State solution to the question of 
Palestine and adopted numerous resolutions to that end. 
46 
12-52396
However, we still hope that, one day soon, Palestine will 
be represented as an equal member in the Assembly.
We  also  underline  the  need  for  a  solution  to  the 
Nagorno  Karabakh  issue  in  accordance  with  the 
territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan.  Yet  there  has  not 
been a single step towards the resolution of that problem 
for the past two decades.
In  addition,  the  problem  of  Cyprus  has  remained 
unresolved  for  almost  half  a  century.  Nearly  a  decade 
has  passed  since  the  United  Nations  settlement  plan 
of  2004,  which  the  entire  international  community 
endorsed.  However,  Turkish  Cypriots  continue  to  face 
isolation  and  an  unlawful  and  unjust  embargo  as  if  it 
were  a  token  of  appreciation  for  their  support  for  the 
United Nations-led settlement.
My  point  speaks  for  itself.  We  cannot  resolve 
current  problems,  and  each  year  we  find  ourselves 
besieged  by  ever-increasing  new  ones.  Terrorists 
continue to strike and take the lives of innocent people, 
yet we still have no effective international response to, 
or adequate solidarity against, the scourge of terrorism.
Today,  some  States  employ  methods  of  State 
violence  and  brutal  oppression  with  impunity,  which 
costs  the  lives  of  innocent  citizens  whom  they  are 
obliged  to  protect.  We  firmly  believe  that  human  life 
is  sacred  and  that  life  is  the  foremost  blessing  for  any 
human being, whoever and wherever they are. 
However,  millions  of  people  live  in  poverty 
and  under  oppression.  They  are  deprived  of  their 
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms,  suffering  under 
extreme  conditions  that  no  human  being  should  ever 
have to live under. To soothe our collective conscience, 
we  constantly  reiterate  our  pledges  to  help  alleviate 
the  misery  of  those  people.  However,  we  fall  short  of 
matching our words with deeds. 
We  live  in  perpetual  hope.  After  all,  as  human 
beings,  we  are  the  children  of  hope.  For  us,  every 
dawn,  every  sunrise  and  every  spring  signifies  a  new 
beginning  of  hope.  We  yearn  for  peace  and  idealize 
peace. It is the essence of our nature.
Humankind expects from us, the leaders of nations, 
to  move  humankind  towards  real  peace.  However, 
we  lag  far  behind  in  meeting  the  expectations  of  our 
nations and of humankind. If it is not for us to provide 
relief and give hope to a child living in a refugee camp 
or  in  open  prisons  in  certain  parts  of  the  world,  then 
what  is  the  chance  that  we  will  cultivate  real  peace? 
A/67/PV.15
When  a  child  opens  his  eyes  to  a  world  of  extreme 
poverty  and  oppression  in  a  refugee  camp  or  in  the 
streets  of  his  neighbourhood,  or  when  a  parent  leaves 
behind  a  destroyed  house,  orphans  and  widows,  how 
can  we  prevent  them  from  succumbing  to  despair  and 
pessimism?  If  we  cannot  regard  the  rights  of  a  person 
in Syria, Palestine, Somalia, Afghanistan, the Rakhine 
region or other places as equal to our own, how can we 
talk about freedom and justice? If fundamental human 
rights are sacrificed for the sake of power politics and 
become  negotiable  in  talks  among  a  few  nations  in 
the Security Council, how are we to achieve universal 
human  rights  and  security?  If  we  remain  incapable  of 
taking  action  to  preserve  the  universal  principles  that 
the  forefathers  of  the  United  Nations  set  out  when 
forming  this  body,  how  can  we  demonstrate  to  people 
that the f lag of the United Nations represents hope for, 
and  a  safeguard  of,  their  destiny?  If  the  use  of  force 
is accepted as unlimited; if indiscriminate attacks and 
collective  punishment  become  weapons  in  the  hands 
of  cruel  regimes  against  their  own  citizens,  as  we 
are  currently  witnessing  every  day,  day  and  night,  in 
Syria; if we fail to hear and rise to join the cry of the 
innocent  masses,  wherever  they  are;  and  if  we  cannot 
force  such  brutal  regimes  to  submit  to  justice  and  the 
rule of law, how are we to maintain international peace 
and security?
A  peaceful  world,  as  the  founders  of  the  United 
Nations envisioned, cannot be established if we remain 
ineffective  in  our  work  against  those  challenges.  Let 
us not forget: our inability to act becomes a tool in the 
hands  of  despots  and  destructive  regimes  to  demolish 
cities, towns and villages, massacre their own citizens 
and  make  a  mockery  of  the  civilized  world  and  the 
United Nations. 
The  failure  to  address  humanitarian  crises  shakes 
our  collective  conscience.  Worse,  however,  inaction 
eventually  emboldens  oppressors  and  aggressive 
regimes  and  creates  evil  alliances  that  perpetuate 
and  commit  crimes  against  humanity.  Let  us  make 
no  mistake:  mercy  shown  to  an  oppressor  is  the  most 
merciless  act  towards  people  under  oppression.  If  not 
now, when are we supposed to act in unity? If not the 
United  Nations,  who  is  to  lead?  If  not  us,  then  who 
will  shoulder  the  responsibility  to  protect  innocent 
civilians? Let us now imagine that we are in the shoes 
of  those  people.  How  can  we  even  dream  about  a  real 
future?
12-52396
47
A/67/PV.15
We  need  a  strong,  efficient  and  credible  United 
Nations.  To  that  end,  we  must  first  tackle  the  long-
outstanding  issue  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  to 
make  it  fit  for  its  purpose.  The  working  methods  and 
structures of the United Nations are not commensurate 
with  the  current  realities  of  the  world.  The  Security 
Council,  with  its  primary  responsibility  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  should  become 
more  representative,  functional  and  effective.  It  has 
to  respond  to  the  real  needs  of  the  world.  That  is  the 
only  way  that  it  will  remain  relevant  to  the  enormous 
challenges that we all face in the twenty-first century.
I  can  freely  appeal  to  the  Assembly’s  conscience, 
as  Turkey  has  a  solid  record  —  be  it  in  Afghanistan, 
Somalia,  Syria,  Yemen,  Libya  or  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  or  when  it  comes  to  cooperation  with 
least developed countries, the United Nations Alliance 
of Civilizations and the Mediation for Peace initiative, 
among other examples.
Allow me now to brief ly touch upon some specific 
issues  that  continue  to  pose  formidable  challenges  for 
the international community.
Let me start by underlining that the recent attacks 
against Islam and the Prophet Muhammad — peace be 
upon him — and Islam are outright provocations. They 
aim  to  pit  nations  and  peoples  against  each  other.  We 
deplore in the strongest terms the malicious attempts to 
denigrate the most sacred values of Islam or any other 
faith. We condemn any type of incitement to hatred and 
religious discrimination against Muslims and people of 
other faiths.
Unfortunately,  Islamophobia  has  become  a  new 
form  of  racism.  It  can  no  longer  be  tolerated  under 
the  guise  of  freedom  of  expression.  Freedom  does  not 
mean anarchy. It means responsibility. The purpose of 
Islamophobia  is  clear  and  simple.  It  aims  to  create  an 
abstract  and  imaginary  enemy  out  of  the  millions  of 
peace-loving  Muslims  all  over  the  world.  Regretfully, 
accepting  generalities,  stereotypes  and  prejudice  as 
truth, many people unknowingly become Islamophobic. 
However, no agenda, no provocation, no attack and no 
incitement to hatred can darken the bright face of Islam.
At the same time, we condemn all the provocations 
and violence that have led to the loss of lives in many 
countries,  including  the  death  of  the  United  States 
Ambassador in Libya. I express our sincere condolences 
for  all  who  have  lost  their  lives.  Violence  against 
innocent people cannot be justified under any pretext. 
Any such activity, no matter whom it is carried out by 
or for what purpose, is a betrayal against the soul, spirit 
and letter of Islam.
However, the recent events are testament to a more 
serious problem that should concern not just Muslims, 
but  the  adherents  of  all  faiths  and  religions.  The 
alarming  increase  in  the  number  of  acts  that  defame 
religions, and thereby people who adhere to them, now 
have  serious  implications  for  international  peace  and 
security.  The  time  has  therefore  come  to  establish  the 
denigration  of  any  religion  and  its  followers  as  a  hate 
crime. We have to take swift measures. We cannot, and 
we shall not, leave our future vulnerable to the reckless 
provocations of all sorts of extremists. 
We  need  to  craft  a  universal  policy  and  a  legal 
instrument that, while protecting free expression, also 
ensure  respect  for  religion  and  prevent  intentional 
insults  against  anyone’s  faith.  The  solution  should  not 
be arbitrary. It has to focus on those who defame a faith 
with the intention of inciting discrimination, hostility or 
violence. We have to find a balance between protecting 
the rights of an individual or group to free expression 
and protecting the right of another individual or group 
not  to  become  the  target  of  hatred  or  of  emotional, 
incited or psychological violence.
Therefore, from this rostrum, I would like to make 
a  strong  appeal  to  the  members  of  the  international 
community  to  set  up  all  the  necessary  instruments 
to  combat  all  hate  crimes,  including  the  denigration 
of  religions  and  defamation  of  their  followers.  The 
United Nations must lead that effort and should provide 
the  international  legal  framework  to  that  end.  We  are 
resolved  to  actively  pursue  this  objective  and  to  work 
diligently  with  like-minded  nations  and  international 
organizations  to  ensure  that  we  take  a  united  and 
effective stance against Islamophobia and all forms of 
hate.
Moreover, we are well aware of the need to ensure 
the  safety,  security  and  protection  of  diplomats.  In 
the  past  four  decade,  the  Turkish  nation  has  lost  33 
diplomats  to  terrorist  acts  by  the  Armenian  Secret 
Army  for  the  Liberation  of  Armenia.  We  encourage 
the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  a  new  understanding 
of,  and  international  instrument  for,  the  protection  of 
diplomats.
As a mockery of the values we all share, the people 
of  Syria  have  continued  to  suffer  under  the  brutality 
and tyranny of the regime in Damascus for the past 18 
48 
12-52396
months. The numbers speak volumes. More than 30,000 
people have been killed so far, approximately 300,000 
Syrian  refugees  have  f led  to  neighboring  countries, 
including  Turkey,  and  more  than  1  million  people  are 
internally displaced.
Unfortunately, 
this  humanitarian 
tragedy  has 
become  just  a  statistic  for  many.  What  has  the 
international  community  done  to  stop  this  carnage? 
Literally nothing. We have yet to see a single effective 
action  to  save  innocent  lives.  It  is  a    great  disgrace 
to  witness  that  today,  after  20  years,  the  ghosts  of 
Srebrenica and Halabja continue to haunt us, this time 
in the cities of Syria.
One can argue about the reasons for the failure of 
the Security Council to stop the violence of the Syrian 
regime. However, there can be no legitimate explanation 
for  the  failure  of  the  Security  Council  to  ref lect  the 
collective  conscience  of  the  international  community. 
It  has  to  uphold  its  primary  responsibility  to  maintain 
international peace and security. It is the inability of the 
Council  to  act  that  continues  to  encourage  the  Syrian 
regime to kill ever more people.
If  the  Security  Council  does  not  follow  the 
conscience of the international community, as ref lected 
by  the  resolutions  adopted  by  a  more  than  two-thirds 
majority of the General Assembly, who will respond to 
the  cries  of  the  Syrian  people?  For  how  long  will  we, 
the  international  community,  allow  this  humanitarian 
tragedy to continue? 
The  responsibility  to  protect  the  people  of  Syria 
is  our  fundamental  duty.  No  political  differences, 
no  balance  of  power  politics  and  no  geopolitical 
considerations  should  prevail  over  our  conscience  and 
our concern for the destiny of the Syrian people.
More important, the situation in Syria has evolved 
into  a  real  threat  to  regional  peace  and  security.  The 
Syrian  regime  deploys  every  possible  instrument  to 
turn  the  legitimate  struggle  of  the  Syrian  people  into 
a sectarian war, which will engulf the entire region in 
f lames. Unfortunately, the longer the regime is allowed 
to wage its campaign of violence, the harder it will be 
to prevent such a dreadful eventuality.
It  is  high  time  that  the  Security  Council  take 
action,  as  the  Assembly  called  for.  There  has  to  be  a 
solution to ensure the immediate safety and security of 
the Syrian people. There has to be a solution for a sound 
transition  process  that  paves  the  way  for  the  creation 
A/67/PV.15
of  a  new  and  democratic  Syria.  The  regime  in  power 
has to step down and allow an interim Government to 
lead the country to free and fair elections. The Syrian 
people  need  our  united  support  and  solidarity  in  their 
struggle for their future and their right to a legitimate 
and representative Government.
The  Turkish  nation  stands  by  its  brethren,  the 
Syrian people, in their legitimate struggle. We now care 
for 90,000 displaced Syrian refugees in Turkish homes. 
Let me underline once again that, since the beginning 
of  the  conf lict,  we  have  never  hesitated,  nor  will  we 
ever, hesitate to be at the side of our Syrian brothers and 
sisters in their most difficult hour.
Another 
tragedy 
that  has 
long  been 
taking 
place  before  our  eyes  in  the  Middle  East  is  that  of 
Palestine. This is the fourth General Assembly session 
where  we  continue  to  stress  the  unacceptability  and 
unsustainability  of  the  situation  in  Gaza.  However,  to 
date,  there  has  been  no  progress.  As  a  result,  in  the 
fourth  year  of  the  unlawful  blockade  by  Israel,  the 
people in Gaza, children in particular, continue to live 
in despair, desolation and fear.
Many decisions and resolutions have been adopted 
at  the  United  Nations  calling  for  the  lifting  of  that 
unlawful blockade. However, Israel persists in its illegal 
policy to this day, thereby causing misery and anguish 
in Gaza. In fact, we see the same attitude by Israel in all 
of the occupied Palestinian territories. Despite insistent 
calls by the international community, it carries on with 
its illegal settlements in Palestine, and thus deliberately 
undermines  the  prospects  of  a  peaceful  two-State 
solution.
Indeed, when President Mahmoud Abbas spoke in 
the Assembly last year (see A/66/PV. 19) and declared 
the right of Palestine to be recognized as an independent 
State,  I  remember  seeing  the  whole  Assembly  in  a 
standing ovation. But as of this day we have yet to see 
the State of Palestine as an equal member of the General 
Assembly,  with  the  f lag  of  the  independent  Palestine 
f lying.  How  can  we  convince  the  Palestinian  people 
that  the  international  community  is  serious  about  a 
two-State solution when no United Nations resolutions 
have  helped  their  cause  for  an  independent  State  of 
Palestine?  However,  we  will  one  day  see  the  f lag  of 
Palestine in the Hall. Turkey will certainly support the 
Palestinian people in their quest for statehood, dignity 
and peace.
12-52396
49
A/67/PV.15
While the whole world’s attention is rightly focused 
on the Middle East, we should not forget that there are 
serious  human  tragedies  taking  place  elsewhere  as 
well. We do not have the luxury to turn a blind eye to 
any human suffering.
all,  the  continuation  of  the  problem  creates  additional 
risks  for  the  stability  of  the  region.  Moreover,  the 
unilateral  exploration  of  oil  and  natural  gas  by  the 
Greek  Cypriots  around  the  island  further  intensifies 
those risks.
As I personally witnessed during my visit in June, the 
people of the Rakhine region, especially the Rohingya 
Muslims,  are  in  desperate  need  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  The  democratization  process  under  way  in 
Myanmar provides us with a window of opportunity, as 
the Government has repeatedly stressed its readiness to 
cooperate with the international community to ease the 
suffering of those people.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  I  wish  to  touch 
upon  yet  another  long-standing  conf lict  that  also 
requires  immediate  practical  steps  towards  a  fair 
and  lasting  solution.  I  am  referring  to  the  problem  of 
Cyprus.  Unfortunately,  the  new  round  of  talks  started 
in  2008  are  at  a  stalemate,  with  no  end  in  sight,  due 
to  Greek  Cypriots’  intransigence  and  lack  of  political 
will.  Today,  despite  half  a  century’s  experience  and  a 
body  of  United  Nations  work,  there  is  still  not  a  clear 
prospect for a solution.
The Turkish Cypriots have so far proven their firm 
commitment to a negotiated solution, but remain subject 
to an inhumane and unlawful embargo. That is simply 
unfair. They should not be forced to play this game for 
an  indefinite  period  without  a  clear  perspective  and 
timeline for a solution.
The  international  community  must  not  remain 
indifferent to what is happening in Cyprus, either. After 
Under  those  circumstances,  the  United  Nations 
must  do  more  than  what  it  is  currently  doing.  The 
Security Council in particular has to facilitate a solution 
rather than merely sustaining the status quo. A change 
of mentality is essential. There should be a distinction 
between  those  who  seek  and  aspire  for  a  solution  and 
those  who  reject  it.  It  is  no  longer  enough  to  pay  lip 
service to a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation. It is time 
to act before it is too late.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  go  back  to  what  I  said  at 
the beginning of my remarks. We are at the end of the 
opening of yet another session of the General Assembly. 
We have all expressed our desire for and commitment 
to  a  more  peaceful  and  prosperous  world.  However, 
positive  change  can  only  be  realized  if  our  actions 
match  our  words  and  promises.  Every  attempt  to 
achieve our objective for real peace, every moment we 
spend  to  uphold  rightness  and justice  and  every  effort 
we  make  for  freedoms  and  human  rights  will  provide 
greater comfort for those who struggle to have a say in 
their  destiny.  A  while  ago,  I  asked  if  not  now,  when? 
This year, let us make a difference and let us hope that 
we will not repeat the same question next September in 
the Assembly.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m. 
50 
12-52396
