United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
29th plenary meeting
Thursday, 1 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.29
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Agenda item 71
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/67/4)
The President: It is now my great honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Headquarters  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Peter  Tomka,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, and to give him the f loor.
Mr. Tomka, President of the International Court of 
Justice (spoke in French): At the outset, I wish to take 
this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić upon 
his election to preside over the General Assembly at its 
sixty-seventh session. I wish him the greatest of success 
in the discharge of his important functions.
Following  a  well-established  tradition  ref lecting 
the Assembly’s interest in the Court and its support of 
the  Court,  I  would  like  to  present  a  succinct  report  of 
the judicial activity of the court over the past 12 months. 
During this period, the Court continued to fulfil its role 
as the privileged forum of the international community 
of  States  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  all  sorts  of 
international  disputes  that  it  has  the  jurisdiction  to 
address.  It  made  every  effort  to  meet  the  expectations 
of  the  international  parties  appearing  before  it  in  a 
timely  manner.  It  should  be  noted  in  this  regard  that 
as the Court has been able to clear its backlog of cases, 
States  that  are  contemplating  submitting  cases  to  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  can 
be  confident  that,  as  soon  as  they  are  finished  their 
written  exchanges,  the  Court  will  be  able  to  proceed 
without delay to oral hearings.
During  the  reporting  period,  as  many  as  15 
contentious  cases  and  one  advisory  procedure  were 
pending  before  the  Court.  On  31  July,  11  contentious 
cases  remained  before  the  Court.  During  the  same 
period,  one  new  contentious  case  was  submitted  to 
the  Court  by  Nicaragua,  concerning  Construction 
of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San  Juan  River 
(Nicaragua v. Costa Rica).
During 
Immunities  of 
the  same  period, 
the  Court  held  a 
series  of  public  hearings  on  the  following  three 
cases:  Jurisdictional 
the  State
(Germany  v.  Italy:  Greece  intervening);  Questions 
relating  to  the  Obligation  to  Prosecute  or  Extradite 
(Belgium  v.  Senegal);  and  Territorial  and  Maritime 
Dispute  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia).  The  Court  is  at 
present deliberating this last case and intends to deliver 
its  judgment  in  the  course  of  the  next  month.  It  also 
recently held, from 8 to 17 October, hearings in the case 
concerning Frontier Dispute (Burkina Faso/Niger) and 
has begun its deliberations. Lastly, hearings will begin 
in the case concerning the Maritime Dispute (Peru v. 
Chile) on 3 December. 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  delivered 
four  judgments  in  the  following  cases:  Application 
of  the  Interim  Accord  of  13  September  1995  (the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  v.  Greece); 
Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v. 
Italy:  Greece  intervening);  Ahmadou  Sadio  Diallo
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-56915 (E)
*1256915*
A/67/PV.29
(Republic  of  Guinea  v.  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo),  on  the  question  of  compensation  owed  to 
Guinea;  and  Questions  relating  to  the  Obligation  to 
Prosecute  or  Extradite (Belgium  v.  Senegal).  The 
Court  also  delivered  an  advisory  opinion  concerning 
Judgment No. 2867 of the Administrative Tribunal of the 
International  Labour  Organization  upon  a  Complaint 
Filed  against  the  International  Fund  for  Agricultural 
Development.
As  I  usually  do,  I  will  report  brief ly  on  the  four 
Judgments  and  the  advisory  opinion  delivered  by  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  under  the  period  under 
review. I shall deal with these decisions in chronological 
order. 
On  5  December  2011,  the  Court  delivered  its 
Judgment  in  the  case  concerning  Application  of  the 
Interim  Accord  of  13  September  1995 (the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  v.  Greece),  which 
had  been  brought  in  November  2008  by  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  against  Greece  for 
what  is  described  as  the  “f lagrant  violation  of  [that 
country’s] obligations under Article 11” of the Interim 
Accord  signed  by  the  parties  on  13  September  1995. 
After asking the Court in its application to 
“protect  its  rights  under  the  Interim  Accord  and 
to  ensure  that  it  is  allowed  to  exercise  its  rights 
as  an  independent  State  acting  in  accordance 
with  international  law,  including  the  right  to 
pursue  membership  of 
international 
organizations”, 
relevant 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia requested 
the  Court  to  order  Greece  to  “immediately  take  all 
necessary  steps  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under 
Article 11, paragraph 1” and to 
 “cease and desist from objecting in any way, whether 
directly or indirectly, to the Applicant’s membership 
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and/or of 
any  other  ‘international,  multilateral  and  regional 
organizations and institutions’ of which [Greece] is 
a member”.
Greece, for its part, considered that the case brought 
by  the  applicant  did  not  fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  Court  and  that  in  any  case  the  applicant’s  claims 
were  inadmissible.  It  argued  in  the  alternative  that 
were the Court to find that it had jurisdiction and that 
the claims were admissible, those claims were without 
foundation.
With regard to the respondent’s objections as to the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and  the  admissibility  of  the 
applicant’s claims, the Court ruled that it not only had 
jurisdiction  to  entertain  the  application  filed  but  also 
that the application was admissible.
As for the second part of the applicant’s claims, the 
Court  found  that  the  Hellenic  Republic,  by  objecting 
to  the  admission  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia to NATO, had violated its obligation under 
article 11, paragraph 1, of the Interim Accord. The Court 
rejected all other submissions made by the applicant.
On  3  February,  the  Court  rendered  its  Judgment 
in  the  case  concerning  Jurisdictional  Immunities  of 
the  State (Germany  v.  Italy:  Greece  intervening).  On 
23  December  2008,  Germany  filed  an  application 
instituting  proceedings  against  Italy,  whereby 
it 
requested the Court to find that Italy had failed to respect 
the jurisdictional immunity enjoyed by Germany under 
international law by allowing civil claims to be brought 
against  it  in  the  Italian  courts  seeking  reparations  for 
injuries by violations of international humanitarian law 
committed  by  the  German  Reich  during  the  Second 
World  War.  Germany  also  requested  that  the  Court 
find  that  Italy  had  also  violated  Germany’s  immunity 
by  taking  enforcement  measures  against  Villa  Vigoni, 
German State property situated in Italian territory, and 
that Italy had further breached Germany’s jurisdictional 
immunity  by  declaring  enforceable  in  Italy  decisions 
of  Greek  civil  courts  rendered  against  Germany  for 
acts similar to those which had given rise to the claims 
brought before Italian courts. 
requested 
that  Italy’s 
Consequently,  Germany 
the  Court 
to  adjudge  and  declare 
international 
responsibility was triggered; that Italy must, by means 
of  its  own  choosing,  take  any  and  all  necessary  steps 
to  ensure  that  all  the  decisions  of  its  courts  and  other 
judicial  authorities  infringing  Germany’s  sovereign 
immunity be without effect; and that Italy must take any 
and all necessary steps to ensure that in the future Italian 
courts  do  not  entertain  legal  actions  against  Germany 
founded upon the aforementioned occurrences.
In its ruling, the Court found that Italy had violated 
its  obligation  to  respect  the  immunity  that  Germany 
enjoys  under  international  law  by  allowing  civil 
claims  to  be  brought  against  it  based  on  violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law  committed  by  the 
German  Reich  between  1943  and  1945;  that  Italy  had 
violated  its  obligation  to  respect  the  immunity  which 
Germany  enjoys  under  international  law  by  taking 
2 
12-56915
enforcement  measures  against  Villa  Vigoni;  and 
that  Italy  had  violated  its  obligation  to  respect  the 
immunity  that  Germany  enjoys  under  international 
law  by  declaring  enforceable  in  Italy  decisions  by 
Greek  courts  based  on  violations  of  international 
humanitarian law committed in Greece by the German 
Reich. The Court also found that Italy must, by enacting 
appropriate legislation or by resorting to other methods 
of  its  choosing,  ensure  that  the  decisions  of  its  courts 
and  those  of  other  judicial  authorities  infringing  the 
immunity  which  Germany  enjoys  under  international 
law cease to have effect.
In  September,  the  Italian  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Minister  of  Justice  of  Italy,  in  agreement 
with  the  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance,  presented 
draft  legislation  to  the  Italian  Chamber  of  Deputies 
providing  for  the  authorization  of  ratification  by  Italy 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  Jurisdictional 
Immunities  of  States  and  Their  Property  and  its 
implementation. Furthermore, the draft legislation also 
addresses  the  effect  in  the  Italian  legal  system  of  the 
judgment of the Court in the aforementioned case so as 
to ensure compliance with that decision.
On  19  June,  the  Court  delivered  its  third  ruling 
during the period under review in the case concerning 
Ahmadou  Sadio  Diallo (Republic  of  Guinea  v. 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo).  That  ruling 
concerned  the  question  of  compensation  owed  by 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to  Guinea.  It 
should  be  recalled  that,  in  the  ruling  on  the  merits  of 
30 November 2010, the Court had found, inter alia, that 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  had  violated 
certain international obligations as a result of Mr. Diallo, 
a Guinean national, having been continuously detained 
in Congolese territory for 66 consecutive days between 
November  1995  and  January  1996,  and  of  his  having 
been  detained  for  a  second  time  between  25  and 
31 January 1996, for a total of 72 days. 
In  that  regard,  the  Court  had  found  that  Guinea 
had  failed  to  demonstrate  that  Mr.  Diallo  had  been 
subjected  to  inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  during 
his detentions. In addition, it was found that Mr. Diallo 
had  been  expelled  by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  on  31  January  1996  and  that  he  had  received 
the  notification  of  his  expulsion  on  the  same  day. 
Accordingly, the Court had stated that the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  was  required  to  compensate 
Guinea  for  breaches  of  its  obligations  under  certain 
human  rights  conventions,  namely  the  International 
A/67/PV.29
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the African 
Charter  on  Human  and  Peoples’  Rights.  Under  the 
terms  of  the  ruling  on  the  merits,  it  followed  that  the 
amount of compensation to be paid by the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  had  to  be  set  for  any  damages 
resulting from the wrongful detention and expulsion of 
Mr. Diallo, including the resulting loss of his personal 
belongings. 
In  the  final  stage  of  the  proceedings,  Guinea 
sought  compensation  amounting  to  $11,590,148,  not 
including  statutory  default  interest  on  four  counts 
of  damages:  one  non-material  count  referred  to  by 
Guinea as “psychological and moral damage” and three 
counts of material damage for alleged loss of personal 
property,  alleged  loss  of  professional  remuneration 
suffered by Mr. Diallo during his detentions and after 
his  expulsion,  and  alleged  deprivation  of  potential 
earnings. Guinea also requested the Court to order the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  not  only  to  pay  all 
the costs, but also to pay it the amount of $500,000 for 
costs  it  had  been  forced  to  incur  in  the  proceedings. 
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  for  its  part, 
requested the Court to adjudge that compensation in an 
amount  of  $30,000,  payable  within  a  time  limit  of  six 
months from the date of the Court’s ruling, was due to 
Guinea to make good on the non-material harm suffered 
by Mr. Diallo as a result of his wrongful detentions and 
expulsion in 1995 and 1996. The Democratic Republic 
of the Congo rejected all other claims by Guinea.
In  ruling  on  the  non-material  harm  alleged  by 
Guinea,  the  Court  considered  that  the  amount  of 
$85,000  would  provide  appropriate  compensation  for 
the damage suffered by Mr. Diallo. With regard to the 
compensation  for  material  damage,  the  Court,  relying 
on  the  jurisprudence  of  regional  human  rights  courts, 
awarded the sum of $10,000 for the loss of Mr. Diallo’s 
personal property. Having then found that Guinea had 
not proven to the satisfaction of the Court that Mr. Diallo 
had suffered a loss of professional remuneration during 
his  detentions  and  following  his  expulsion,  the  Court 
decided  to  award  no  compensation  for  that  injury. 
Lastly,  the  Court  decided  to  award  no  compensation 
to  Guinea  in  respect  of  its  claim  relating  to  potential 
earnings of Mr. Diallo, insofar as that claim, which was 
beyond the scope of those proceedings, amounted to a 
claim relating to the injuries alleged to have been caused 
to  Africom-Zaire  and  Africontainers-Zaire,  while  the 
Court had already declared those claims inadmissible. 
12-56915
3
A/67/PV.29
After  fixing  31  August  2012  as  the  deadline  for 
the payment of compensation owed by the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  to  Guinea  with  post-Judgment 
interest accruing at an annual rate of 6 per cent in the 
event of late payment, the Court decided that each party 
should  bear  its  own  procedural  costs.  The  Court  was 
informed  that  the  compensation  was  duly  paid  by  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  within  the  time 
limit fixed for that purpose.
(spoke in English)
I  now  come  to  the  Judgment  granted  by  the 
Court  in  the  case  concerning  Questions  Relating  to 
the  Obligation  to  Prosecute  or  Extradite (Belgium  v. 
Senegal). In that case, which it submitted to the Court 
by  means  of  an  application  dated  19  February  2009, 
Belgium  complained  that  Senegal,  where  the  former 
Chadian  President  Hissène  Habré  had  been  living  in 
exile  since  1990,  had  taken  no  action  on  its  repeated 
requests to ensure that the latter be brought to trial in 
Senegal,  failing  his  extradition  to  Belgium,  for  acts 
characterized as torture, crimes against humanity, war 
crimes and the crime of genocide, allegedly committed 
while he was President of Chad between 1982 and 1990. 
Belgium  contended  that  Senegal  was  in  breach  of 
its  obligations  under  article  5,  paragraph  2;  article  6, 
paragraph  2;  and  article  7,  paragraph  ,1  of  the  1984 
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or 
Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and its obligations 
under customary international law. Senegal, for its part, 
submitted that there was no dispute between the parties 
with  regard  to  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the 
Convention against Torture or any other relevant rules 
of  international  law.  According  to  the  respondent,  the 
Court therefore elected jurisdiction in the case. 
Arguing  in  particular  that  none  of  the  alleged 
victims  of  the  acts  attributed  to  Mr.  Habré  was  of 
Belgian nationality at the time the acts were committed, 
Senegal also objected to the admissibility of Belgium’s 
claims  because,  in  its  view,  the  latter  was  not  entitled 
to invoke the international responsibility of Senegal for 
the  alleged  breach  of  its  obligation  to  submit  the  case 
of  Hissène  Habré  to  its  competent  authorities  for  the 
purpose of prosecution, failing his extradition. 
Given  that  the  existence  of  a  dispute  was  a 
condition of the jurisdiction of the Court on both bases 
of  jurisdiction  invoked  by  Belgium  —  namely,  article 
30, paragraph 1 of the Convention against Torture and 
the declarations made by the parties under Article 36, 
paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court  —  the  Court 
began  by  considering  that  question.  It  found  that, 
in  view  of  the  legislative  and  constitutional  reforms 
carried  out  in  Senegal  in  2007  and  2008,  any  dispute 
that  might  have  existed  between  the  parties  with 
regard  to  the  interpretation  or  application  of  article 
5,  paragraph  2  of  the  Convention  —  which  requires  a 
State party to the Convention to take such measures as 
may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over acts 
of torture in cases where the alleged offender is present 
in  any  territory  under  its  jurisdiction  if  it  does  not 
extradite him pursuant to article 8 to any of the States 
mentioned  in  paragraph  1  of  the  same  article  —  had 
ended by the time the application was filed.
As  regards  Belgium’s  claims  relating  to  Senegal’s 
duties  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under  article 
6,  paragraph  2,  and  article  7,  paragraph  1  of  the 
Convention against Torture, which respectively require 
a State party to the Convention to immediately make a 
preliminary  inquiry  into  the  facts  when  a  person  who 
has  allegedly  committed  an  act  of  torture  is  found  on 
its territory and, if it does not extradite him, to submit 
the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of 
prosecution,  the  Court,  after  analysing  the  diplomatic 
exchanges  between  the  parties,  found  that  they  had 
conf licting  views  concerning  the  interpretation  and 
application  of  the  aforementioned  provisions  at  the 
time of the filing of the application. However, the Court 
considered  that  the  dispute  which  had  thus  arisen  did 
not  relate  to  breaches  of  obligations  under  customary 
international law.
After recalling that, in the words of its preamble, the 
object  and  purpose  of  the  Convention  against  Torture 
is  to  make  more  effective  the  struggle  against  torture 
throughout the world, the Court found that Belgium, as 
a State party to the Convention, had standing to invoke 
the  responsibility  of  Senegal  for  the  alleged  breaches 
of  its  obligations  erga  omnes  partes  under  article  6, 
paragraph 2, and article 7, paragraph 1. The claims of 
Belgium based on those provisions were thus declared 
admissible.
the 
two  aforementioned  provisions  of 
After assessing questions relating to the merits, the 
Court  found  that  Senegal  had  violated  its  obligations 
under 
the 
Convention  and  that  its  international  responsibility 
had  been  triggered.  Noting  the  continuing  nature  of 
those violations, it declared that Senegal was required 
to  cease  them  by  taking  without  further  delay  the 
necessary measures to submit the case to its competent 
4 
12-56915
A/67/PV.29
authorities for the purpose of prosecution if it does not 
extradite Mr. Habré.
IFAD by Ms. Saez Garcia and that the decision given by 
the Tribunal in its judgment was valid.
the  Judgment  of 
I  shall  now  turn  to  the  Court’s  advisory  opinion 
concerning 
the  Administrative 
Tribunal  of  the  International  Labour  Organization 
upon  a  Complaint  Filed  against  the  International 
Fund  for  Agricultural  Development  (IFAD).  In  that 
case,  the  Court  was  asked  to  examine  the  validity  of 
a  judgment  granted  by  the  Administrative  Tribunal 
of  the  International  Labour  Organization  concerning 
the  employment  contract  of  Ms.  Saez  Garcia.  It 
should  be  recalled  that  the  latter  had  accepted  from 
the  International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development 
an  offer  of  a  two-year  fixed  term  contract  serving 
as  a  programme  officer  in  the  Global  Mechanism, 
an  institution  housed  at  the  Fund.  The  employment 
contract had been renewed on two occasions. 
The  Tribunal  was  seized  of  a  dispute  concerning 
the  decision  of  the  President  of  the  Fund  to  reject  the 
recommendations  of  the  Joint  Appeals  Board  of  the 
Fund  following  several  internal  procedures  relating 
to  the  non-renewal  of  the  contract  of  the  individual 
concerned  and  the  abolition  of  her  post.  In  its 
judgment,  the  Court  set  aside  the  President’s  decision 
and  ordered  the  Fund  to  pay  damages  and  expenses. 
In  the  course  of  the  advisory  proceedings  before  the 
Court,  the  Fund  asserted  in  particular  that  Ms.  Saez 
Garcia  was  a  staff  member  of  the  Global  Mechanism 
and  not  of  IFAD,  and  that  her  employment  status  had 
to be assessed in the context of the arrangement for the 
housing  of  the  Global  Mechanism  made  between  the 
Fund  and  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Convention  to  Combat  Desertification  in 
Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or 
Desertification, Particularly in Africa.
After  examining  the  texts  defining  the  respective 
powers  of  and  relations between  IFAD  and  the  Global 
Mechanism, the Court came to the conclusion that the 
Global Mechanism, which is devoid of any international 
legal personality, had no power and had not purported to 
exercise any power to enter into contracts, agreements 
or  arrangements  internationally  or  nationally.  With 
respect  to  Ms.  Saez  Garcia’s  employment  status,  the 
Court found that there was an employment relationship 
between  her  and  the  Fund,  given  that  the  staff 
regulations and the rules of the Fund were applicable to 
her. Accordingly, the Court unanimously found that the 
Administrative Tribunal was competent under article 2 
of  its  Statute  to  hear  the  complaint  introduced  against 
In  the  light  of  its  concern  about  the  inequality  of 
access to the Court arising from the review procedure 
provided  for  in  article  XII  of  the  annex  to  the  statute 
of  the  Administrative  Tribunal  of  the  International 
Labour Organization, the Court examined the principle 
of equality before the Court of the Fund and Ms. Saez 
Garcia.  It  declared  that  the  principle  of  equality  must 
now  be  understood  as  including  access  on  an  equal 
basis 
to  available  appellate  or  similar  remedies 
unless  an  exception  can  be  justified  on  objective  and 
reasonable grounds. In that regard, the Court questioned 
whether  the  system  established  in  1946  allows  for  the 
implementation  of  the  modern-day  concept  of  the 
principle  of  equality  and  access  to  justice,  stating 
however  that  it  did  not  fall  to  it  to  reform  the  current 
system.
While  the  United  Nations  reformed  its  system  of 
administrative  justice  some  time  ago,  it  nevertheless 
remains  impossible  to  request  review  of  a  judgment 
of  the  Administrative  Tribunal  of  the  International 
Labour  Organization.  In  fact,  the  opportunity  to 
challenge a judgment of the Tribunal is available only 
to international organizations duly authorized to do so 
under  the  statute  of  the  Administrative  Tribunal,  and 
not to any staff member affected by such a decision. In 
that  regard,  the  question  arises  as  to  whether  the time 
has come for the International Labour Organization to 
also consider initiating a reform of the current system, 
such  as  that  already  being  carried  out  by  the  United 
Nations. 
Turning  to  more  practical  matters,  I  am  delighted 
to tell the Assembly that the Court is refurbishing the 
Great Hall of Justice at the Peace Palace. 
That project, which has received the support of the 
Carnegie  Foundation,  is  the  first  major  renovation  of 
the  Hall  in  a  hundred  years.  In  the  past,  minor  work 
was  carried  out  to  extend  the  bench  to  accommodate 
the  enlarged  composition  of  the  Court’s  predecessor, 
the Permanent Court of International Justice. However, 
no  renovation  on  the  scale  of  the  current  project  has 
previously  been  envisaged.  Furthermore,  the  newly 
renovated  Great  Hall  of  Justice  will  also  be  equipped 
with  improved  modern  technical  facilities  offering  a 
wide range of possibilities. I am therefore very pleased 
to  assure  the  Member  States  that  not  only  do  we  hear 
and  shall  continue  to  hear  cases  to  submitted  to  the 
Court  faithfully  and  impartially  as  required  by  the 
12-56915
5
A/67/PV.29
noble judicial mission entrusted to the United Nations, 
but  that  we  are  also  modernizing  the  setting  in  which 
we exercise that function. We have thus been able to put 
the funds mobilized by the General Assembly to good 
use in the refurbishment and renovation project.
I  hope  I  have  conveyed  to  the  General  Assembly 
the  extent  to  which  the  Court  seeks  to  meet  the 
expectations of the international community as a whole, 
including,  as  in  the  last  decision  that  I  reviewed,  in 
relation to particular aspects of the law of international 
organizations.  That  is  why  the  Court  has  already 
discussed the schedule of its judicial work for 2013 and 
2014  with  a  view  to  fixing  several  series  of  hearings. 
I  have  already  mentioned  that  hearings  will  begin  in 
the  case  concerning  Maritime  Dispute (Peru  v.  Chile) 
in December. In addition, the Court envisages holding 
hearings  in  April  in  the  case  concerning  the  request 
for  interpretation  of  the  Judgment  of  15  June  1962 
in  the  case  concerning  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear 
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand),  and  in  early  summer  next 
year,  in  the  case  concerning  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic
(Australia v. Japan).
Of course, the Court must do its utmost to serve the 
noble  purposes  and  goals  of  the  United  Nations  using 
limited  resources,  since  the  Member  States  allocate 
less  than  1  per  cent  —  exactly  0.8  per  cent  —  of  the 
Organization’s regular budget to it. Nevertheless, I hope 
that I have shown that the Court’s recent contributions 
are  not  to  be  measured  in  terms  of  the  financial 
resources that sustain it, but against the great progress 
made by it in the advancement of international justice 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes between States.
I  want  to  thank  the  Assembly  for  giving  me  this 
opportunity to address it today. I wish it every success 
in its sixty-seventh session. 
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice. 
Mr.  Gharibi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 
to  agenda 
item  71,  “Report  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice”,  and  takes  note  of  the 
report,  contained  in  document  A/67/4,  regarding  the 
activities  of  the  Court  between  1  August  2011  and 
31 July 2012, as requested by the General Assembly last 
year in resolution 66/102. I would also like to thank the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  his 
presentation of the report to the Assembly.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  positions  concerning  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and the non-use or threat 
of use of force. The International Court of Justice has 
a significant role to play in promoting and encouraging 
the  settlement  of  international  disputes  by  peaceful 
means, as ref lected in the United Nations Charter, and 
in such a manner that international peace and security 
and justice are not endangered.
The  Movement  endeavours  to  generate  further 
progress towards achieving full respect for international 
law,  and  in  that  regard  commends  the  role  of  the 
International Court of Justice in promoting the peaceful 
settlement of international disputes in accordance with 
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  in  particular  Articles  33 
and 94 of the Charter.
With regard to advisory opinions of the Court, the 
NAM urges the Security Council to make greater use of 
the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions  and  interpretation  of  relevant  norms  of 
international law, and on controversial issues. It further 
requests  the  Council  to  use  the  Court  as  a  source  of 
interpretation  of  relevant  international  law,  and  urges 
the  Council  to  consider  allowing  its  decisions  to  be 
reviewed  by  the  Court,  bearing  in  mind  the  need  to 
ensure  that  they  adhere  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and  international  law.  The  Movement  also  invites  the 
General Assembly, other organs of the United Nations 
and the duly authorized specialized agencies to request 
advisory opinions of the International Court of Justice 
on  legal  questions  arising  within  the  scope  of  their 
activities.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
importance of the Court’s unanimous conclusion issued 
on 8 July 1996 on the question concerning the Legality 
of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. On this, the 
International Court of Justice concluded that 
reaffirms 
“there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith 
and  bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations  leading  to 
nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict 
and effective international control”.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  call  for 
full  respect  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  Member 
6 
12-56915
A/67/PV.29
States  and  the  United  Nations  of  the  9  July  2004 
advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
on  Legal  Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall 
in  the  Occupied  Palestinian  Territory,  and  that  they 
consider the possibility of requesting a further advisory 
opinion from the Court regarding the prolonged Israeli 
occupation of the Palestinian territory since 1967.
Mr.  Rowe  (Australia):  On  behalf  of  Canada,  New 
Zealand  and  my  own  country,  Australia —  the  CANZ 
group  —  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Tomka,  for  his 
informative  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  for  the 
period 1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 (A/67/4). 
Court  to  move  beyond  jurisdictional  issues  and  to  the 
substance  of  disputes  more  quickly.  Accordingly,  we 
continue to urge Member States that have not done so 
to  deposit  with  the  Secretary-General  a  declaration  of 
acceptance of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. 
Finally,  Canada,  New  Zealand  and  Australia 
would  like  to  express  their  appreciation  for  the 
tremendous  contributions  of  Judges  Koroma,  Simma 
and Al-Khasawneh to the development of international 
law  through  their  work  as  members  of  the  Court,  and 
we  wish  them  all  well  in  their  future  endeavours.  We 
also congratulate Judges Bhandari, Gaja and Sebutinde 
on their recent election to the Court. 
CANZ  continues  to  strongly  support  the  Court 
in  its  role  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  sustained  caseload  of  the  Court, 
covering  a  diversity  of  subject  matter  and  geographic 
circumstance, demonstrates the universal appeal of the 
International Court of Justice and the vital role it plays 
in the promotion of the rule of law.
Ms. Heptulla (India): I extend my sincere gratitude 
to  Judge  Peter  Tomka,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive  and  detailed 
report  (A/67/4)  covering  the  judicial  activities  of 
the  Court  over  the  past  year.  I  also  thank  him  and 
Vice-President  Judge  Bernardo  Sepúlveda-Amor  for 
their leadership of the Court over that period.
As we review the Court’s work over the reporting 
period, we see that cases before the Court are increasing 
in factual and legal complexity and continue to include 
issues  at  the  forefront  of  international  justice.  We 
commend the Court for its ongoing efforts to increase 
its efficiency and sustain its increased workload. In that 
regard, we welcome President Tomka’s statement to the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  in  September 
this year that the Court has more than doubled its work 
rate since 1990. 
During  the  period  under  review,  the  Court  has, 
as  President  Tomka  mentioned,  handed  down  four 
judgments, one advisory opinion and three orders, and 
it  has  now  successfully  cleared  its  backlog  of  cases. 
Nevertheless, we know that the agenda of the Court in 
the year ahead will remain heavily charged, as countries 
continue to affirm their confidence in the Court and its 
primary role in the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes. 
the 
CANZ  also  welcomes 
increased  public 
accessibility  to  the  work  of  the  Court  and  the  Court’s 
efforts to ensure the greatest possible public awareness 
through  the  Court’s  publications,  multimedia  and 
website, which now features the full body of the Court’s 
jurisprudence. 
CANZ  strongly  believes  that  wider  acceptance  of 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court would enable 
it  to  fulfil  its  role  more  effectively  by  permitting  the 
India  attaches  the  highest  importance  to  the 
Court  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  foremost  purpose  of  the  United  Nations 
is the maintenance of international peace and security. 
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  is 
fundamental  to  achieving  that  objective.  The  Court 
has  fulfilled  admirably  the  task  of  resolving  disputes 
peacefully since its establishment.
The  Court  remains  the  only  judicial  body  with 
legitimacy derived from the United Nations Charter and 
enjoying universal character with general jurisdiction, 
whereas  other  international  judicial  institutions  have 
competence  and  jurisdiction  in  specific  areas  only. 
The  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  an 
integral  part  of  the  Charter.  This  is  a  unique  status 
enjoyed  by  the  Court  among  the  international  courts 
and tribunals.
As  stated  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter,  one  of 
the primary goals of the United Nations is to establish 
conditions  under  which  justice  and  respect  for  the 
obligations of international law can be maintained. The 
International Court of Justice, as the only international 
court  with  general  international  law  jurisdiction,  is 
uniquely  placed  to  fulfil  that  role.  The  report  of  the 
Court clearly illustrates the confidence that States have 
reposed in it, as shown by the number and scope of cases 
entrusted  to  it  and  the  Court’s  growing  specialization 
12-56915
7
A/67/PV.29
in  complex  aspects  of  public  international  law.  This 
clearly establishes the universality of the Court.
During  the  past  year,  the  Court  has  handed  down 
four  judgments  and  one  advisory  opinion.  The  Court 
has in one judgment highlighted the significance of the 
principle of the sovereign immunity of States. In another 
judgment, the Court has confirmed the relevance of the 
principle  of  either  prosecute  or  extradite.  The  Court’s 
docket  of  pending  cases  has  grown  consistently  in 
factual and legal complexity. Presently, the number of 
pending contentious cases stands at 11, involving States 
all over the world.
Since  its  inception,  the  Court  has  dealt  with  a 
variety  of  complex  legal  issues.  The  subject  matter  of 
cases  before  the  Court  has  varied  widely,  including 
territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  environmental 
damage,  violation  of  territorial  integrity,  violation 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights, 
genocide,  and  the  interpretation  and  application  of 
international treaties.
The  Court  has  remained  highly  sensitive 
in 
respecting  the  political  realities  and  sentiments  of 
States,  while  acting  within  the  provisions  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  its  own  Statute  and  other 
applicable international law. The Court has contributed 
significantly  towards  settling  legal  disputes  between 
sovereign  States,  thus  promoting  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations. Through its second function of 
providing advisory opinions on legal questions referred 
to  it  by  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  specialized 
agencies,  the  Court  continues  to  fulfil  the  important 
role of clarifying key international law issues.
I am glad to note that the Court has taken significant 
steps  in  recent  years  to  enhance  its  own  efficiency  in 
order to be able to cope with the steady increase in its 
workload.  We  are  happy  to  note  that,  accordingly,  the 
Court  has  successfully  cleared  its  backlog  of  cases, 
which  further  strengthens  the  confidence  of  States  in 
the Court’s competency and efficiency.
I  wish  to  reiterate  in  my  concluding  remarks  the 
great importance the international community attaches 
to  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  and 
to draw the Assembly’s attention to the importance of 
strengthening the functioning of the Court by providing 
all necessarily required means.
Mr. Galea (Romania): Romania is a strong supporter 
of the role played by the International Court of Justice 
in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  in  international 
relations.  My  country  has  been  involved  twice  in  the 
recent  past  in  proceedings  before  the  International 
Court  of  Justice.  I  have  in  mind  the  case  concerning 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Black  Sea (Romania  v. 
Ukraine), which was settled by the Court by a Judgment 
rendered  unanimously  on  3  February  2009,  and  the 
proceedings of the advisory opinion on the question of 
the accordance with international law of the unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo.  We 
have thus had the opportunity to convince ourselves of 
the  efficiency  and  the  professionalism,  as  well  as  the 
full  impartiality,  of  the  Court.  We  are  confident  that 
the submission of disputes to international adjudication 
is preferable to protracted bilateral talks and is capable 
of removing sensitive issues from the political agenda. 
The  increasing  number  of  cases  on  the  docket  of 
the  Court  and  the  reference  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
International Court of Justice in numerous conventions 
of universal application stand as proof of the expanding 
role of the Court. 
The  judgments  and  the  advisory  opinion  issued 
in  the  past  year  gave,  in  our  opinion,  important  clues 
about  the  current  stage  of  certain  issues  of  customary 
international  law.  In  particular,  the  judgment  in  the 
case  concerning  Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the 
State (Germany  v.  Italy:  Greece  intervening)  offered 
guidance  with  respect  to  the  customary  international 
norms  concerning  an  issue  that  we  consider  to  be 
important  —  the  immunity  of  States.  Moreover, 
we  note  that  the  judgment  in  the  case  concerning 
Questions  relating  to  the  Obligation  to  Prosecute  or 
Extradite (Belgium  v.  Senegal)  not  only  provided  for 
the  interpretation  and  application  of  the  Convention 
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading 
Treatment  or  Punishment,  but  also  made  a  clear 
statement on the fact that the prohibition of torture has 
become part of peremptory norms of international law, 
or jus cogens. 
The Court is the highest judicial organ of the United 
Nations and has an acknowledged body of pre-eminent 
professionals in the legal field. We think that the United 
Nations  and  its  Member  States  must  do  everything  to 
maintain  and  consolidate  its  high  professional  status 
and  to  improve  the  procedures  before  the  Court, 
while  complying  with  its  Statute.  We  acknowledge 
some  recent  debates  related  to  an  International  Court 
of  Justice  bar  meant  to  improve  the  quality  of  legal 
representation before the Court.
8 
12-56915
A/67/PV.29
Given  our  firm  support  for  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  we  intend  to  start  a  national  debate 
concerning the possibility of accepting the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court.
Mr.  Bonifaz  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like to thank the President of the International Court of 
Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, for being here this morning 
and  for  his  interesting  presentation  on  the  intensive 
work  carried  out  by  the  Court  from  1  August  2011  to 
31 July 2012. 
The  establishment  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice as a principal organ of the United Nations sought 
to create a universal system allowing States to resolve 
their  differences  peacefully.  This  year,  we  celebrate 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  Manila  Declaration 
on  the  Peaceful  Settlement  of  International  Disputes, 
which was adopted by consensus on 15 November 1982, 
in  resolution  37/10.  In  this  regard,  it  is  always  worth 
recalling  that  the  Manila  Declaration  reiterates  that 
legal disputes should, as a general rule, be submitted by 
the parties to the International Court of Justice and that 
this submission should not be considered an unfriendly 
act by States. 
Moreover,  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is of particular significance for the work of the Court, 
since  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  himself, 
during his statement at the general debate of the sixty-
seventh  session  of  the  Assembly,  invited  all  States  to 
speak  under  the  theme  of  “Bringing  about  adjustment 
or settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful means”. That is why the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Peru,  during  his  statement  in  the  general 
debate, stated that:
“Peru reaffirms its full respect for the work of the 
Court  and  calls  on  States  to  turn  to  it  to  resolve 
their differences and to respect and comply with its 
decisions,  pursuant  to  Chapter  XIV  of  the  United 
Nations Charter.” (A/67/PV.14, p. 37)
the  Court —  an  obligation  that  arises  specifically  and 
directly from Article 94 of the Charter.
Consequently, Peru believes it extremely important 
that the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice 
be universally accepted by all States. According to the 
Court’s  latest  report  (A/67/4),  to  date  67  States  have 
accepted it, pursuant to paragraph 2 of article 36 of its 
Statute. In that regard, Peru calls urgently on States that 
have not yet done so to accept the Court’s compulsory 
jurisdiction over contentious issues and encourages the 
Secretary-General to pursue his efforts to promote this 
cause.
We  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the  work  of  the 
Court  in  its  adjudicating  and  consulting  roles,  and 
highlight  the  high-profile  work  of  its  judges  as  first-
rate  legal  officials  whose  effective  management  has 
enabled the Court to fulfil its mandate as the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations system. It behoves 
Member  States  to  ensure  that  the  Court  enjoys  the 
resources  adequate  to  performing  its  work.  In  that 
regard,  we  believe  that  the  positive  response  to  the 
request mentioned in paragraph 24 of the report for an 
associate legal officer within the Department of Legal 
Matters would strengthen the Court’s ability to manage 
its workload. In that context, we note with concern the 
observations made by the President of the Court in his 
explanatory memorandum (A/66/726, annex), in which 
he refers to the need for the correct balance to be struck 
in order to ensure that budgetary limitations in no way 
impair the Court’s important work.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Lastly,  Peru  wishes  to  point  out  that  recourse  to 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  a  commitment 
to  peace  whereby  States  emphatically  reaffirm  their 
commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  and  the  well-being  of 
their  peoples,  fully  consistent  with  the  principles  and 
purposes enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
Likewise, on 24 September, the High-level Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels  was  held  and  a  Declaration  (resolution  67/1) 
adopted,  recognizing  the  positive  contribution  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  importance  of 
its work in promoting the rule of law. The Declaration 
of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels  reaffirms,  among  other  things,  the  obligation 
of  States  to  respect  and  comply  with  the  decisions  of 
Mr. Song (Singapore): My delegation would like to 
express its thanks to the International Court of Justice 
for  the  comprehensive  and  informative  report  on  its 
work from 1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 (A/67/4). It is 
evident that the Court has had an extremely busy year 
dealing  with  a  myriad  of  legal  issues.  It  is  therefore  a 
testament  to  the  leadership  of  President  Peter  Tomka 
and former President Hisashi Owada that the Court has 
been able to discharge its duties with the highest  level 
of competence, efficiency and professionalism.
12-56915
9
A/67/PV.29
It is Singapore’s firmly held view that international 
relations must be governed by the rule of law in order to 
preserve international peace and stability. Fundamental 
to  the  rule  of  law  is  the  notion  that  disputes  must  be 
resolved  by  peaceful  means.  Where  disputes  fail 
to  be  resolved  through  informal  processes  such  as 
negotiations or mediation, serious consideration should 
be given to having them adjudicated by a neutral third 
party.
Needless to say, the Court plays a vital role in that 
regard.  Under  international  law,  there  is  no  formal 
hierarchy  among  the  various  judicial  mechanisms  and 
international  tribunals,  but  the  Court  unquestionably 
commands  immense  prestige  and  authority.  First,  it  is 
the only international court of a universal character with 
general jurisdiction. Secondly, it is the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  draws  on  a  heritage 
dating  back  to  the  Permanent  Court  of  International 
Justice.  Its  judgments  have  been  and  continue  to  be 
extremely  inf luential,  and  have  a  deep  impact  on  the 
development  of  international  law.  The  Court  therefore 
plays  a  fundamental  role  in  ensuring  that  the  rule 
of  law  in  international  relations  is  maintained  and 
strengthened.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  there 
were  a  number  of  jurisprudential  developments  of 
particular  interest  to  my  delegation.  We  note  that 
the  Court  has  taken  the  opportunity  to  clarify  the 
jurisprudence relating to its jurisdiction in response to 
requests  to  adjudicate  and  render  advisory  opinions. 
Such  clarifications  are  useful  in  this  developing  area 
of  international  law,  and  given  the  growing  number 
of  cases  where  such  arguments  are  being  made,  we 
anticipate  that  in  future  there  will  be  other  occasions 
for further elaboration and development.
We  also  note  the  increasing  number  of  disputes 
involving  issues  of  environmental  law  being  brought 
before the Court. We look forward to hearing the Court’s 
views on such issues, given the dynamic growth of this 
area of law and their relevance to the global community.
We also keenly followed the Court’s deliberations in 
the case concerning Questions relating to the Obligation 
to  Prosecute  or  Extradite (Belgium  v.  Senegal). 
The  interpretation  of  this  obligation  concerns  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  given 
the 
prevalence  of  such  clauses  in  a  whole  range  of 
international  treaties,  including  those  on  counter-
terrorism.  It  is  no  coincidence  that  the  International 
Law  Commission  is  also  in  the  process  of  examining 
this  issue  and  has  in  fact  specifically  noted  that  an 
in-depth analysis of the case will be conducted in order 
to fully assess its implications for the topic.
With  regard  to  the  Court’s  administration,  my 
delegation applauds the Court for successfully clearing 
its backlog of cases. We share its confidence that States 
considering coming to the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations can now be assured that as soon as the 
written  phase  of  the  proceedings  has  come  to  a  close, 
the Court will be able to move to the oral proceedings 
in a timely manner. We are also encouraged to read that 
work is proceeding on modernization of the Great Hall 
of  Justice,  including  the  introduction  of  information 
technology resources on the judges’ bench, and we look 
forward to its speedy completion.
Singapore notes the Court’s request for the creation 
of  an  associate  legal  officer  post  (P-2)  within  the 
Department of Legal Matters in its budget submission 
for  the  biennium  2012-2013,  which  was  not  granted. 
My delegation’s view is that the request was not made 
lightly,  given  the  efforts  of  the  Court  to  increase  its 
efficiency,  including  holding  deliberations  on  several 
cases  simultaneously.  Considering  the  central  role 
the  Court  plays  and  the  range  of  issues  which  it  has 
to  deal  with,  including  those  of  a  highly  complex  and 
controversial nature, it is only right that we support this 
request.
In  conclusion,  Singapore  reiterates  its  belief  that 
the Court plays a vital role in ensuring the existence and 
maintenance of the rule of law in international relations. 
We  continue  to  hold  the  Court  in  highest  regard  and 
pledge  our  continued  support  for  its  work.  We  wish  it 
every  success  in  meeting  its  future  challenges  and  in 
discharging its duties for the year ahead.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  the 
Philippines aligns itself with the statement made earlier 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
We  thank  President  Peter  Tomka  and  his  team  at 
The Hague for their comprehensive report (A/67/4) on 
the work of the International Court of Justice in the past 
year.  After  perusing  that  report,  my  delegation  has  a 
few recollections, ref lections and hopes to express.
The first recollection is the very basis for the Court. 
Article 92 of the Charter of the United Nations defines 
the Court as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations.
10 
12-56915
The second recollection is the purpose of the Court. 
It  resolves  disputes  that  cannot  otherwise  be  resolved 
by or through the political organs of the United Nations. 
In other words, it resolves legal or justiciable disputes. 
Under Article 38 of the Statute of the Court, those are 
disputes  capable  of  settlement  through  the  application 
of the sources of international law: treaty, international 
custom,  general  principles  of  law  and,  as  subsidiary 
sources,  judicial  decisions  and  the  teachings  of  the 
most highly qualified publicists.
The third recollection is the relevance of the Court. 
On September 24, for the first time since international 
law created the United Nations 67 years ago, we finally 
devoted  a  high-level  meeting  to  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
national  and  international  levels  (A/67/PV.3).  We 
adopted  resolution  67/1,  which  recognizes  that,  across 
and  beyond  the  United  Nations  system,  we  have  the 
institutions, the working methods and the relationships 
to make the rule of law relevant to peace and security, 
to human rights and to development.
One  of  those  institutions  is  none  other  than 
the  Court.  In  paragraph  31  of  the  Declaration,  we 
recognized  its  positive  contribution  in  promoting  the 
rule of law. We also affirmed our duty to comply with 
its  decisions  in  contentious  cases.  The  Philippines 
approaches  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level 
from the prism of Article 1, paragraph 1 of the United 
Nations Charter, which lays down that one purpose of 
the Organization is 
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
Guided by that inspiration, the Philippines reiterates 
its  categorical  support  for  the  President’s  overriding 
priority for his presidency, as ref lected in his choice for 
the theme of this session. That is the very rationale for 
the 1982 Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement 
of  International  Disputes  (resolution  37/10,  annex), 
whose  thirtieth  anniversary  we  will  commemorate  on 
15 November.
May  I  now  share  our  first  ref lection.  There  is  no 
doubt  that  the  Court  continues  to  play  a  vital  role  in 
international  relations.  I  shall  explain.  The  Manila 
Declaration was negotiated and adopted by the General 
Assembly  during  the  Cold  War,  when  non-aligned 
countries were seeking to consolidate their political and 
A/67/PV.29
economic  independence.  The  Declaration  supported 
their  aspirations  by  articulating  the  norms  of  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  as  outlined  in  Chapter 
VI  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Of  the  eight  means 
for the peaceful settlement of disputes outlined in part 
I,  paragraph  5,  of  the  Manila  Declaration,  judicial 
settlement, specifically through the Court, is the most 
formal and perhaps the most rules-based means. May I 
therefore emphasize that if a party to a dispute moves 
for a judicial settlement of the dispute by the Court, that 
is not an unfriendly act and should not be taken as such 
by the other party to the dispute.
Our  second  ref lection  builds  on  the  continuing 
relevance of the Court. There is now a greater need for 
its services. Beginning with the case of Corfu Channel
(United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
v.  Albania)  in  1947  until  the  adoption  in  1982  of  the 
Manila Declaration — a span of 35 years — the Court 
disposed of 49 contentious cases. Since 1982, however, 
the caseload of the Court has increased, and it disposed 
of 76 contentious cases in a comparably briefer period.
This  apparently  increasing  confidence  in  the 
capabilities,  credibility  and  impartiality  of  the  Court, 
particularly  among  developing  countries, 
is  not 
wholly  unrelated  to  the  norms,  values  and  aspirations 
articulated  by  the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes.  After  all,  the 
Declaration  ref lects  the  international  community’s 
increasing reliance on the rule of law as a cornerstone 
not only of the peaceful settlement of disputes, but also 
of the maintenance of international peace and security.
Continuing  with  the  arc  of  peace,  law  and  justice 
in international relations, our third ref lection is that the 
mandate and jurisdiction of the Court are sharper than 
ever before. The creation of the International Criminal 
Court and specialized dispute-settlement mechanisms, 
such  as  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  and  the  Appellate  Body  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization, do not make the Court any less important 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  On  the  contrary,  the  new 
international 
legal  architecture  only  strengthens 
the  Court  as  the  only  forum  for  resolving  justiciable 
disputes  between  States  concerning  the  vast  field  of 
general international law.
This brings us to our fourth ref lection. Through the 
work of the Court, we appreciate even more why States 
choose  to  put  a  limit  on  their  sovereignty  by  agreeing 
to customary and novel rules of international law. Quite 
simply, it is in our national interest to do so. International 
12-56915
11
A/67/PV.29
law  is  even  more  important  for  developing  or,  if  you 
will, less powerful countries. Only a strong rule of law 
at  the  international  level  can  guarantee  the  respect, 
order  and  stability  that  we  desire  and  deserve.  That  is 
how  we  contribute  to  the  progressive  development  of 
international law.
If there is anything that the United Nations Charter 
and  the  Statute,  jurisprudence  and  experience  of  the 
Court all teach us, it is that the weak, if their cause is 
just, should have no fear of the mighty; it is that, through 
the  work  of  the  Court,  the  rule  of  law  in  international 
relations has a chance to prevail; it is that, through the 
rule of law, we can demonstrate that right is might.
The  Philippines  welcomes  the  recent  election  of 
five  new  members  of  the  Security  Council.  They  are 
friends who have a strong record on peace and security, 
as well as the rule of law at the international level. With 
that  development,  I  end  my  statement  by  expressing 
the  hope  that  was  expressed  earlier  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  hope  that  the  Security 
Council  will  consider  Article  96  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  by  making  greater  use  of  the  Court  as 
a  source  of  advisory  opinions  and  of  interpretation  of 
relevant  norms  of  international  law,  particularly  on 
the  most  current  and  controversial  issues  affecting 
international peace and security.
Mr. Nishida (Japan): At the outset, I would like to 
congratulate  President  Peter  Tomka  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  to 
thank  him  for  his  comprehensive  and  detailed  report 
(A/67/4)  on  the  praiseworthy  work  of  the  Court  over 
the  past  year.  His  report  highlights  the  important  role 
that  the  Court  plays  in  inter-State  conf lict  resolution 
by  peaceful  means.  Japan  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  commend  the  work  of  the  Court  under 
the leadership of President Tomka.
At no time in history has the Court occupied such 
a preponderant role in the international legal system as 
it  does  at  this  present  time.  Our  delegation  welcomes 
the  growing  trend  towards  a  greater  use  of  the  Court 
by Member States in all corners of the world. The wide 
variety of the subject matters of the disputes referred to 
the International Court of Justice, from territorial and 
maritime  boundary  questions  to  rights  of  individuals, 
further  testifies  to  the  confidence  that  Member  States 
place  in  the  vigorous  judicial  work  achieved  by  the 
Court.
My  Government  fully  appreciates  that  the  Court 
is  also  at  its  busiest  time  in  its  history,  particularly 
over the last few years, and that its work schedule has 
reached its maximum level. 
As  President  Tomka  mentioned  in  his  statement 
at  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National and International Levels, held on 24 September 
(see  A/67/PV.3),  the  Court  has  rendered  60  judgments 
since  1990,  as  compared  to  the  52  delivered  during 
its  first  44  years.  That  achievement  is  all  the  more 
remarkable  in  the  light  of  the  fact  that  the  Court 
maintained  high-quality  work  through  the  judicial 
rigour  of  the  members  of  the  Court,  with  the  support 
of  the  highly  dedicated  Registry.  That  is  an  element 
that  truly  places  the  Court  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Japan  commends  the 
Court for continuing to make efforts to re-examine its 
procedures  and  working  methods  in  order  to  conduct 
its  activities  in  a  sustainable  manner  while  assuming 
the challenging task of warranting impartiality against 
political pressure and maintaining respect for equality 
between parties to a dispute.
As  the  recently  held  High-level  Meeting  made 
very clear, the enhancement of the rule of law has now 
become a common priority agenda of the international 
community.  Indeed,  again  at  no  time  in  history 
have  we  heard  daily  of  the  mounting  expectations 
across  the  globe  for  international  law  to  serve  as  a 
device  for  disentangling  heated  controversies  and 
difusing  tensions  by  providing  actors  with  a  common 
language.  My  Government  strongly  believes  that  the 
international  community  must  seize  this  moment  to 
make  international  law  play  a  more  important  role 
in  international  relations.  The  threat  or  use  of  force 
are  prohibited  under  international  law  and  should  no 
longer  be  resorted  to  as  a  means  to  resolve  conf licts. 
But  the  reality  is  that  more  needs  to  be  done.  The 
international community as a whole needs to recommit 
itself  to  establishing  the  primacy  of  international  law, 
as well as to settling disputes through peaceful means, 
including by judicial mechanisms. Japan is committed 
to upholding the rule of law in international relations. 
As  my  Government  has  reiterated  on  many  occasions, 
the universal acceptance of the Court’s jurisdiction by 
Member  States  is  a  key  step  forward  in  enabling  the 
enhancement of the rule of law at the international level. 
Japan  itself  has  steadfastly  accepted  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  since  1958.  Our  delegation 
12 
12-56915
calls upon all Member States that have not yet done so 
to accept the jurisdiction of the Court.
Finally,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the  importance 
of  strengthening  the  functioning  of  the  Court.  Japan 
will continue to contribute to the efficient and effective 
work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  wishes 
the Court every success in its endeavours.
Mr. Ragaglini (Italy): It is a privilege for me today 
to address the General Assembly on its consideration of 
the  annual  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(A/67/4). I wish to congratulate Judge Peter Tomka on 
his election as the President of the International Court of 
Justice. I am certain that, under his able leadership, the 
world Court will continue to meet the expectations and 
the needs of the international community. I would also 
like  to  thank  President  Tomka  for  his  comprehensive 
report, which illustrates very well the renewed pivotal 
role of the Court at the present juncture in international 
relations.
On  3  February,  the  Court  issued  a  Judgment 
on  a  dispute  between  Germany  and  Italy  relating  to 
Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v. 
Italy:  Greece  intervening).  Just  a  few  weeks  after  the 
Judgment,  Italy’s  domestic  courts  provided  for  its 
implementation  in  accordance  with  Article  94  of  the 
Statute of the International Court of Justice. Currently, 
the adoption of specific legislation to further strengthen 
compliance  with  the  Court’s  Judgment  is  under  way. 
The  prompt  response  both  by  the  judiciary  and  the 
Government  and  Parliament  of  Italy  shows  the  strong 
commitment  of  the  entire  Italian  legal  system  to  the 
rule of law.
On  a  more  general  note,  President  Jeremić  has 
chosen  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means” 
as the theme for the sixty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly. We think that the choice is very appropriate.
States have an obligation under the Charter of the 
United Nations to settle their disputes peacefully. That 
obligation  not  only  entails  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes  but  also  indicates  that  international  disputes 
must be settled. Any policy of protracted non-compliance 
with  international  law  or  any  attempt  to  delay  the 
execution  of  obligations  f lowing  from  international 
rules creates tensions and fosters unfriendly relations. 
In  some  areas,  it  may  be  to  the  detriment  of  common 
battles to combat crime and strengthen the rule of law.
A/67/PV.29
At  the  opening  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  on  the  occasion  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International Levels, on 24 September (see A/67/PV.3), 
States  made  solemn  pledges  relating  to  the  rule  of 
law.  In  that  framework,  among  other  things,  Italy 
announced  its  readiness  to  accept  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under 
Article  36  of  its  Statute.  Even  in  the  absence  of  that 
declaration, Italy had already agreed to submit disputes 
to  the  Court  on  a  number  of  occasions.  By  accepting 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  Italy  is  now 
determined to take a further step towards strengthening 
the  foundations  for  an  age  of  accountability.  It  is  also 
reaffirming its commitment to the rule of law as a pillar 
of its foreign policy.
The  broader  the  acceptance  of  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  is,  the  stronger  the  chances 
are  for  a  more  just  and  peaceful  world.  Respect  for 
international law is to be achieved in practice through 
compliance with the law and its enforcement.
Mr. Fife (Norway): I would like to start by thanking 
the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  for  its  annual  report 
(A/67/4)  to  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like 
to  express  my  gratitude  to  its  President,  Judge  Peter 
Tomka, for his able presentation.
As one of the principal organs of the United Nations 
and the only international court of a universal character 
with general jurisdiction, the Court occupies a special 
position. It plays a significant role in the promotion of the 
rule of law through its judicial activities in contentious 
cases and through its advisory opinions. That was also 
duly  noted  at  the  plenary  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels, 
held  here  in  New  York  on  24  September  (see  A/67/
PV.3).
As  noted  in  the  report  of  the  Court,  almost  as  an 
understatement, the subject matter in the cases referred 
to  the  Court  has  varied  widely.  Moreover,  those  cases 
are  growing  in  factual  and  legal  complexity.  Also  for 
those  reasons,  the  Court  is  particularly  well  placed  to 
provide guidance, through its judicial activities, on how 
to  counter  difficulties  arising  from  the  diversification 
and expansion of international law, which is sometimes 
referred  to  as  the  fragmentation  of  international  law. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  cohesion  of  international 
law  is  actively  promoted  notably  through  a  coherent 
12-56915
13
A/67/PV.29
interpretation  of  treaties  on  the  basis  of  the  principles 
and  rules  contained  in  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the 
Law of Treaties.
The  reporting  period  was  marked  by  a  number 
of  significant  decisions  on  the  part  of  the  Court.  We 
would  also  like  to  commend  the  Court  for  the  steps  it 
has taken to enhance its efficiency and to cope with the 
steady increase in its workload.
We  note  with  appreciation  that  it  has  successfully 
cleared its backlog of cases, as explained in the report.
It  is  also  against  that  background  that  Norway 
notes  that  the potential  for  the  active  use  of  the Court 
as a key organ for the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
in  conformity  with  the  Charter,  actually  surpasses 
the number of States — 67 so far — that have made a 
declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of the Court as 
compulsory.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  national 
debate just announced by Romania to that effect. Thus, 
some 300 international agreements also provide for the 
jurisdiction of the Court. Moreover, States may decide 
to agree on the referral of cases to the Court after the 
negotiation  of  special  agreements,  where  the  parties 
may  agree  on  the  specific  issues  they  wish  to  submit 
to the Court.
The  costs  related  to  dispute  settlement  before  the 
Court  should  not  discourage  States  from  submitting 
their disputes for settlement. States that are able to do 
so  should  therefore  consider  contributing  to  the  Trust 
Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes 
through the International Court of Justice, established 
by the Secretary-General, from which States may apply 
for  financial  support  in  order  to  finance  their  dispute 
settlement or to comply with the Court’s judgments. In 
that regard, I am pleased to announce that Norway has 
decided  to  contribute  $80,000  to  the  Trust  Fund  and 
will proceed promptly with the transfer.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  plays  a  crucial 
role, not only in the resolution of contentious cases and 
through its advisory role but also in the clarification and 
development of international law at large. We welcome 
the  Court’s  seminal  contributions  in  various  fields, 
including with regard to the development of the modern 
law of the sea, and in particular its role in consolidating 
and  refining  principles  of  maritime  delimitation.  In 
doing  so,  the  Court  has  provided  invaluable  guidance 
to  States  engaged  in  the  negotiation  of  treaties  on  the 
delimitation of their continental shelves and economic 
zones.
We are also pleased to note that in its ﬁ rst delimitation 
Judgment  in  the  Dispute  concerning  delimitation 
of  the  maritime  boundary  between  Bangladesh  and 
Myanmar in the Bay of Bengal (Bangladesh/Myanmar), 
delivered  in  March,  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Law of the Sea also confirmed the cohesive body of law 
developed  by  the  Court,  thus  contributing  to  further 
consolidation  and  preventing  the  fragmentation  of 
international law in that field. That comes in addition to 
similar contributions made by ad hoc arbitral tribunals 
established  to  resolve  maritime  delimitation  issues  in 
the recent past.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Norway’s 
long-standing  and  unwavering 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  a  cornerstone  of  the 
international legal order.
support 
for 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item  for  this  meeting. 
As  announced  at  the  beginning  of  the  meeting,  we 
shall  hear  the  remaining  speakers  at  a  later  date  to  be 
announced.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of 
the report of the International Court of Justice (A/67/4)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 71.
Agenda item 74
Report of the International Criminal Court
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/378 and 
A/67/378/Add.1)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/308)
The  Acting  President:  It  is  now  my  great  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court. I now give him the f loor.
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song  (International  Criminal 
Court):  I  am  honoured  to  take  the  f loor  before  the 
Assembly  for  the  fourth  time  to  deliver  the  annual 
report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court’s  (ICC)  to 
the United Nations (A/67/308). 
Coming to the General Assembly on behalf of the 
ICC gives me the feeling of a grown-up child returning 
to  his  parental  home  once  a  year  to  talk  about  his 
14 
12-56915
A/67/PV.29
studies,  work  and  life.  At  10  years  old,  the  ICC  is  a 
thriving, independent organization with broad support. 
It is the centrepiece of a new justice paradigm that has 
been  joined  by  121  States  that  have  decided  to  bolster 
their  national  jurisdictions  with  an  international  court 
of last resort in order to prevent impunity for the gravest 
crimes known to humankind.
Furthermore,  the  ICC  has  been  seized  of  an  eighth 
situation  following  the  Mali  Government’s  referral 
to  the  ICC  Prosecutor  of  the  situation  in  Mali  since 
January  2012  on  18  July.  The  Prosecutor  is  currently 
conducting  a  preliminary  examination  to  determine 
whether  the  criteria  for  opening  an  investigation  have 
been fulfilled. 
That  achievement  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  formative  role  of  the  United  Nations  and, 
specifically,  the  General  Assembly,  in  the  history 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  Assembly 
is  where  the  seed  of  the  ICC  was  first  planted,  with 
the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  and  the  early 
work  of  the  International  Law  Commission.  That  is 
where  the  process  was  revived  in  1989,  following  the 
proposal  by  Trinidad  and  Tobago.  It  was  the  General 
Assembly  that  established  the  Preparatory  Committee 
on  the  Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal 
Court.  As  the  Assembly  knows,  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the International Criminal Court was adopted under the 
auspices of the United Nations on 17 July 1998.
On  1  July  2002,  the  Rome  Statute  entered  into 
force.  Since  then,  the  ICC  has  stood  on  its  own  feet, 
separate  from  but  closely  connected  to  the  United 
Nations  through  our  Relationship  Agreement.  During 
its first decade, the ICC has firmly established its role 
in  a  multilateral  system  that  aims  to  end  impunity.  I 
welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  recognition  of  that 
role in the Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
and  International  Levels  (resolution  67/1),  held  on 
24 September. On behalf of the ICC, its elected officials 
and  staff,  I  thank  the  General  Assembly  for  all  the 
support we have received from it.
The ICC’s written report provides a comprehensive 
update on the Court’s judicial proceedings covering the 
period  from  1  August  2011  to  31  July  2012.  Today  I 
will  only  highlight  the  most  important  developments 
that  have  taken  place  since  I  last  appeared  before  the 
Assembly (see A/66/PV.44).
There  have  been  some  important  institutional 
developments. Ms. B. Fatou Bensouda was sworn in as 
the second Prosecutor of the ICC, six new judges were 
elected, and the new President of the Assembly of States 
Parties took office. The ICC has continued investigations 
in  seven  situations  —  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo; Uganda; the Central African Republic; Darfur, 
the  Sudan;  Kenya;  Libya;  and,  finally,  Côte  d’Ivoire. 
Let  me  brief ly  address  the  state  of  judicial 
proceedings in each of the seven active situations. 
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  was  the  first  investigation  opened  by 
the  ICC  Prosecutor  in  2004,  following  a  referral  by 
that  country’s  Government.  The  ICC’s  first  trial  of 
Mr.  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo  arose  from  that  situation. 
On  14  March  2012,  Trial  Chamber  I  rendered  its 
verdict  in  the  case,  finding  Mr.  Lubanga  guilty  of  the 
enlistment, conscription and use of children under the 
age of 15 to participate actively in hostilities in the Ituri 
district between September 2002 and August 2003. On 
10 July, the Trial Chamber sentenced Mr. Lubanga to 14 
years’ imprisonment. On 7 August, the Chamber issued 
the  ICC’s  first  decision  on  reparations  for  victims, 
establishing  principles  relating  to  reparations  and 
tasking the Trust Fund for Victims to collect proposals 
for  reparations  from  victims.  Let  me  stress  that  the 
verdict,  sentence  and  reparations  decision  in  the  case 
of Mr. Lubanga are all under appeal and therefore not 
yet final. 
The  second  trial  relating  to  the  conf lict  in  Ituri 
against Mr. Katanga and Mr. Ngudjolo Chui concluded 
in May with closing statements. The Trial Chamber is 
expected to issue its judgment in the coming months. 
The  ICC’s  third  case  relating  to  Ituri  is  against 
Mr.  Bosco  Ntaganda,  who  has  evaded  justice  for  the 
past  seven  years.  A  second  arrest  warrant  was  issued 
for  Mr.  Ntaganda  in  July,  expanding  the  allegations 
against  him  from  the  use  of  child  soldiers  to  murder, 
rape, sexual slavery and other crimes. 
In  other  developments  related  to  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Mr.  Callixte  Mbarushimana 
was  released  from  custody  on  23  December  2011, 
following  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber’s  ruling  that  there 
was not sufficient evidence to substantiate the charges 
against him. In the meantime, a new arrest warrant has 
been  issued  on  the  basis  of  allegations  related  to  the 
Kivus region against Mr. Sylvestre Mudacumura, who 
currently remains at large. 
12-56915
15
A/67/PV.29
In the situation in Uganda, arrest warrants against 
Mr. Joseph Kony and three other alleged leaders of the 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  have  remained  outstanding 
since 2005. I find that unacceptable and an affront to all 
those affected by the conf lict in northern Uganda. Once 
again,  I  strongly  urge  all  relevant  States  to  cooperate 
in order to reach the goal of bringing those persons to 
justice without delay. 
In the situation in the Central African Republic, the 
ICC’s third trial, of Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo, has 
moved to the defence phase. The trial proceedings will 
continue well into next year. 
In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  Sudan,  one  case  is 
in the trial preparation phase — that of Mr. Banda and 
Mr. Jerbo, who are accused of crimes allegedly committed 
during an attack on African Union peacekeepers. Last 
week,  the  Trial  Chamber  rejected  the  defence  request 
for  a  stay  of  proceedings  and  requested  submissions 
on  the  date  for  the  commencement  of  the  trial.  A 
new  arrest  warrant  was  issued  in  the  Darfur  situation 
on  1  March  against  Mr.  Abdel  Raheem  Muhammad 
Hussein. Regrettably, Mr. Hussein remains at large, and 
arrest  warrants  also  remain  outstanding  in  relation  to 
three other persons in the Darfur situation. I call upon 
all States to cooperate, with a view to executing those 
arrest warrants in order that the suspects may face the 
grave allegations asserted against them. 
The  two  cases  in  the  situation  in  Kenya  have 
progressed  from  the  pre-trial  to  trial  phase.  Of  the 
six  suspects,  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  confirmed  the 
charges  relating  to  post-election  violence  against  four 
of them, while releasing the two others. Two trials, each 
involving two accused, are set to start next April. 
Significant  developments  have  occurred  in  the 
situation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  since  I  last  addressed  the 
Assembly. An arrest warrant was issued in relation to the 
former  President  of  the  country,  Mr.  Laurent  Gbagbo, 
and  he  was  turned  over  to  the  ICC  on  30  November 
2011. The case is currently in the pre-trial stage. 
I  now  come  to  the  situation  in  Libya.  The  two 
suspects  subject  to  the  ICC  arrest  warrants,  Mr.  Saif 
Al-Islam Al-Qadhafi and Mr. Abdullah Al-Senussi, are 
in  the  custody  of  Libyan  authorities.  An  admissibility 
challenge  made  by  Libya  is  currently  pending  before 
the  Pre-Trial  Chamber.  In  the  context  of  the  Libya 
situation,  last  summer  the  ICC  experienced  a  serious 
crisis  when  four  of  our  staff  members  were  detained 
in Zintan, Libya, in the course of the exercise of their 
official duties. I would like to extend the ICC’s sincere 
gratitude to the United Nations and the many Member 
States  that  helped  the  Court  to  secure  the  release  and 
safe return of our colleagues. 
Without  the  assistance  of  States  the  ICC  cannot 
perform  its  mandate  effectively.  I  fully  agree  with 
the  emphasis  that  the  Assembly’s  Declaration  of 
24  September  placed  on  cooperation  with  the  ICC 
(resolution  66/102).  Cooperation  is  not  merely  a 
question  of  discharging  obligations  contained  in  the 
Rome Statute. The international community, including 
the  General  Assembly,  has  on  multiple  occasions 
declared  its  determination  to  end  impunity  for  the 
gravest crimes. Cooperation with the ICC is a concrete 
way to give effect to that objective. 
A  historic  first  debate  on  the  ICC’s  role,  held  in 
the  Security  Council  on  17  October  (see  S/PV.6849), 
was  a  useful  reminder  of  the  specific  challenges  that 
cooperation poses in situations referred by the Council, 
namely, those of Darfur and Libya. In those situations, 
the  ICC  is  exercising  its  mandate  on  behalf  of  the 
United  Nations  membership  as  a  whole  in  that  they 
were referred to the ICC by the Security Council on the 
basis of the Charter of the United Nations. 
By way of resolutions adopted under Chapter VII, 
the Security Council has urged all States to cooperate 
with  the  ICC  in  the  context  of  the  Darfur  and  Libya 
situations.  The  question  of  expenses  incurred  by  the 
ICC  in  the  context  of  the  referred  situations  was  also 
discussed  during  the  Security  Council  debate.  In  that 
respect, I am grateful that the General Assembly, in its 
resolution 66/262, of 29 May 2012, invited all States to 
consider making voluntary contributions towards such 
expenses.
The  Rome  Statute  empowers  victims  in  multiple 
ways  —  as  participants  in  judicial  proceedings,  as 
recipients  of  reparations  following  a  conviction  and 
as  beneficiaries  of  victims’  assistance  provided  by 
the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  that  is  associated  with 
the  ICC.  In  that  regard,  the  Rome  Statute  system 
has  unprecedented  potential  to  bring  retributive  and 
restorative  justice  closer  to  each  other.  Through  its 
engagement  in  situation  countries,  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims  is  able  to  give  a  human  face  to  the  process 
of  international  criminal  justice.  It  has  continued  its 
important  work  with  victims  in  northern  Uganda  and 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Furthermore, 
it  has  officially  notified  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  of  its 
16 
12-56915
intention  to  undertake  programmes  in  the  Central 
African  Republic,  initially  focusing  on  victims  of 
sexual and gender-based violence. 
The Acting President: The debate on this agenda 
item will take place on Tuesday, 6 November, following 
the continuation of the debate on agenda item 71.
A/67/PV.29
The  assistance  that  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims 
is  able  to  provide  to  victims  depends  upon  voluntary 
donations,  which  are  also  needed  to  fund  reparations 
when  a  convicted  person  is  indigent.  As  we  get  closer 
to  the  implementation  of  the  first  reparations  orders, 
the  Trust  Fund  is  in  greater  need  of  financial  support 
than ever before. I would like to thank those States that 
have  already  generously  supported  the  Trust  Fund’s 
important work. I call upon others to join them in doing 
so, for the benefit of the victims of unspeakable crimes.
The Rome Statute system has changed the way that 
the  world  looks  at  grave  crimes  under  international 
law. With the advent of a permanent international court 
to  prosecute  such  crimes,  national  jurisdictions  have 
simultaneously  been  encouraged  and  empowered  to 
prevent impunity. As the Secretary-General said in that 
same Security Council debate, 
“justice is crucial for breaking cycles of violence and 
fragility. Even the possibility of ICC engagement in 
a  given  situation  can  create  an  incentive  to  set  up 
local mechanisms to deliver justice”. 
I suffered the horrors of war as a small child. I would 
not want anyone to experience what I went through in 
my childhood. By enforcing norms of international law 
and  by  protecting  those  most  vulnerable,  with  special 
attention to the needs of children and women, the ICC 
represents a giant leap in humankind’s efforts to ensure 
lasting peace and security for everyone.
The ICC is independent, but at the same time it is still 
the world’s court. The community of nations created it 
out of the desire to protect the most fundamental values 
of concern to humankind as a whole. I wholeheartedly 
endorse the Assembly’s call upon States not yet party to 
the Rome Statute to consider joining the ICC. 
Preventing grave crimes and combating impunity is 
a shared interest of the entire international community. 
As the ICC enters its second decade, it remains firmly 
committed to upholding the rule of law and the principles 
of  judicial  and  prosecutorial  independence,  guided  by 
the  Rome  Statute  and  inspired  by  the  common  goals 
of humankind — values that we share with the United 
Nations and the Assembly.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 74.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Letter dated 29 October 2012 from 
the Chair of the Committee on 
Conferences addressed to the President 
of the General Assembly (A/67/352/Add.1)
The  Acting  President:  Members  are  aware  that, 
pursuant to section I, paragraph 7, of resolution 40/243, 
no  subsidiary  organ  of  the  General  Assembly  may 
meet at United Nations Headquarters during a regular 
session of the Assembly unless explicitly authorized by 
the Assembly.
Authorization is thus sought for the United Nations 
Appeals  Tribunal  to  hold  one  meeting  in  New  York 
during the main part of the sixty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly, on the strict understanding that the 
meeting would be allocated conference services on an 
as-available basis from within existing resources and in 
such a way that the work of the General Assembly and 
its main Committees is not impeded.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  authorize  the  United  Nations  Appeals 
Tribunal  to  meet  during  the  main  part  of  the  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
I  would 
like 
The  Acting  President:
to 
inform  members  that  the  Assembly  will  consider 
agenda 
eighteen 
members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council”,  on 
Thursday,  8  November.  The  item  was  previously 
scheduled to take place on Wednesday, 31 October.
“Election  of 
item  109 
(b), 
The meeting rose at 12.30 pm.
12-56915
17
