United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
7th plenary meeting
A/67/PV.7
Ofﬁ cial Records
Tuesday, 25 September 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Republic 
of the Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Rwanda.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, 
President of the Republic of Rwanda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Kagame: It is timely that we are meeting 
here  over  the  next  few  days  to  seek  ways  and  means 
to  prevent  and  generally  manage  conf licts.  While 
it  may  seem  that  conf lict  is  perennial  and  its  forms 
increasingly  destructive,  we  have  the  urgent  task  of 
seeking  more  effective  ways  to  prevent,  manage  and 
solve  it.  The  losses  we  witness  or  experience  on  a 
daily basis in terms of human life and devastation are 
unacceptable.  Moreover,  at  a  time  when  widespread 
poverty  robs  too  many  people  of  the  opportunity  to 
realize  their  full  potential  in  life,  conf lict  also  diverts 
us from development.
We  might  ask  ourselves  why,  after  decades  of 
efforts to rein in conf lict on a global scale and foster 
multilateral  cooperation  for  sustainable  peace,  the 
results are still not where they should be. The reasons 
for this are several and multifaceted.
First, we must appreciate that many conf licts arise 
when  people  are,  or  feel  they  are,  excluded  from  full 
participation in the affairs of their country, particularly 
around  issues  that  affect  their  everyday  lives.  Even 
a  cursory  look  at  the  conf lict  hotspots  around  the 
world  shows  us  the  dangerous  consequences  of  a 
disenfranchised  and  despondent  citizenry.  Durable 
solutions can come only from an inclusive approach to 
both politics and development.
Secondly, 
thorough  analysis  of 
the  specific 
political  and  cultural  contexts  of  any  given  conf lict 
is  key  to  finding  lasting  solutions.  Too  often,  the 
inclination is to parachute into a situation with ready-
made  answers  based  on  a  superficial  examination  of 
the  conf lict’s  dynamics,  doing  considerably  more 
harm  than  good,  despite  good  intentions.  There  is 
no  one-size-fits-all  remedy;  these  issues  are  complex 
and should be approached as such to arrive at the best 
possible outcome.
Thirdly, 
the 
conf lict 
links  between 
and 
development  are  often  overlooked.  If  we  are  looking 
for  peaceful  ways  to  resolve  and  prevent  conf licts, 
promoting  development  tops  the  list.  The  stakes  are 
high.  A  civil  conf lict  costs  the  average  developing 
country  about  30  years  of  gross  domestic  product 
growth,  and  violence  can  easily  spill  over  borders, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52035 (E)
*1252035*
A/67/PV.7
threatening  hard-won  progress.  Since  security  and 
development cannot be achieved without each other, we 
all — from the average citizen to Government leaders 
and global institutions like the United Nations — have 
to play our roles in order to find inclusive solutions for 
lasting peace and prosperity.
Finally,  it  is  increasingly  obvious  that  local  or 
regional  initiatives  aimed  at  resolving  conf licts  yield 
more  positive  results  because  those  involved  have 
a  deeper  understanding  of  the  issues  at  hand.  Their 
proximity to the conf lict makes them more invested in 
a  comprehensive  resolution  and  enables  the  necessary 
support for whatever process is agreed upon. We need 
to  see  these  initiatives  strengthened.  We  should  be 
highlighting root causes as we address conf licts.
In 
the  50  years  of  our 
independence  and 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  Rwanda  has  lived 
through  conf licts.  Our  country  was  destroyed  by 
political  exclusion  and  subsequent  genocide.  Over  the 
past 18 years, we have been able to rebuild the country 
through policies that include all citizens in governance 
processes  and  by  applying  home-grown  conf lict 
resolution and development mechanisms.
While  our  experience  with  the  United  Nations 
since  becoming  a  Member  has  been  a  mixed  one,  it 
has  taken  on  a  positive  trajectory  in  recent  years,  and 
we are optimistic that it will remain there. The history 
of  how  conf licts  have  been  handled  in  Rwanda,  and 
indeed in our region, however, shows that improvement 
is  needed.  It  is  our  obligation  to  point  this  out  not  in 
order  to  be  critical,  but  because  we  subscribe  to  the 
ideals and principles on which the United Nations was 
founded. We can and should do better.
Rwanda  remains  committed  to  a  more  effective 
United  Nations,  particularly  with  respect  to  its  work 
towards a more peaceful, just and equitable world. We 
will continue to contribute to various programmes for 
development and peace, from our role in promoting the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  supporting  the 
Broadband Commission for Digital Development to our 
troops participating in peacekeeping missions. We hope 
to contribute and participate even more going forward.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  although  the 
challenge  to  better  prevent  and  resolve  conf lict  may 
seem daunting, it remains ours to take on. When we see 
leaders  work  with  the  people  in  an  inclusive  manner; 
when development can proceed unhindered by conf lict; 
when  regional  groupings  take  greater  responsibility 
in  tackling  their  own  issues;  and  when  international 
cooperation takes place in a spirit of true partnership, 
I  believe  that  the  results  will  speak  for  themselves 
and  billions  of  lives  across  the  globe  will  improve. 
Ultimately, this is what we all should work towards.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Rwanda for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, 
President of the Swiss Confederation
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Swiss Confederation.
Mrs.  Eveline  Widmer-Schlumpf,  President  of  the 
Swiss Confederation, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency 
Mrs.  Eveline  Widmer-Schlumpf,  President  of  the 
Swiss  Confederation,  and  to  invite  her  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Widmer-Schlumpf  (spoke  in  French): 
Ten  years  ago,  Switzerland  joined  the  United  Nations, 
thus  becoming  both  the  190th  Member  State  and  the 
first  country  in  which  United  Nations  membership 
was  approved  by  its  citizens  in  a  popular  vote.  The 
United Nations and Switzerland share the same values 
and  pursue  common  goals:  the  promotion  of  peace 
and  security,  sustainable  development,  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights,  and  the  provision  of 
emergency  relief  to  victims  of  conf lict  and  natural 
disasters.
We  face  significant  and  pressing  challenges 
in  all  these  areas.  Climate  change,  food  and  water 
scarcity, migration, organized crime, terrorism and the 
proliferation of weapons do not respect borders. These 
are global challenges that threaten entire regions. In an 
increasingly  interconnected  world,  we  have  to  search 
for global solutions that respond to regional and national 
needs.  It  is  not  enough  to  simply  maintain  the  status 
quo. We have to find today the solutions of tomorrow.
2 
12-52035
A/67/PV.7
it  unparalleled 
The  United  Nations  spans  the  entire  world.  Its 
universality  gives 
legitimacy  and 
enables  it  to  find  and  implement  solutions  to  global 
challenges  that  enjoy  broad  support.  In  view  of  the 
growing  interdependence  of  those  challenges,  the 
United Nations is now more important than ever. It must 
be at the heart of international governance. The support 
of every Member State and every one of us is therefore 
crucial.  In  order  to  accomplish  the  Herculean  tasks 
awaiting it, the United Nations can no longer settle for 
the lowest common denominator, as it does all too often 
when consensus is reached among its Members. If the 
United Nations is to overcome the challenges facing it, 
it  must  be  efficient,  innovative  and  active.  What  does 
that mean?
As  Switzerland  traditionally  defends  dialogue,  we 
call  upon  all  States  and  peoples  to  commit  to  greater 
understanding  and  peaceful  coexistence  among 
cultures,  religions  and  beliefs.  Freedom  of  belief  and 
religion,  like  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression, 
are  universally  guaranteed  core  values  that  must  be 
protected  and  respected.  Moreover,  responding  to  an 
unpleasant opinion with violence can never be justified. 
It  must  be  countered  by  ideas  and  logical  arguments, 
and  if  necessary  through  legal  recourse,  especially  if 
national,  religious  or  cultural  hatred  has  been  incited. 
The attacks in recent weeks against diplomatic missions 
are therefore unacceptable regardless of the motivation 
behind  them.  We  all  bear  a  common  responsibility  to 
promote tolerance and the respect for beliefs.
The United Nations is efficient when it updates and 
improves  its  processes  so  that  it  can  act  more  rapidly 
and  in  a  more  coordinated  manner,  despite  growing 
budgetary  pressures.  In  this  respect,  Switzerland 
supports the reform agenda of the Secretary-General. It 
should be implemented swiftly.
The United Nations is innovative when it develops 
new  ideas  and  solutions  that  are  tailored  to  the  big 
picture.  United  Nations  structures  have  evolved 
organically  over  past  decades.  They  do  not  encourage 
people  to  stray  from  the  beaten  path.  More  intensive 
exchanges  within  the  United  Nations  and  between  the 
Organization  and  scientific  circles,  civil  society  and 
the private sector promote creativity and ensure broad 
support  for  United  Nations  activities.  At  the  seat  of 
the  United  Nations  in  Geneva  that  type  of  exchange 
is  encouraged  in  a  targeted  manner.  Switzerland 
also  supports  the  strengthening  and  development  of 
ref lection  and  research  activities  within  the  United 
Nations.  Bringing  those  activities  together  in  Geneva 
would  further  strengthen  the  creative  potential  of  the 
Organization.
Finally, the United Nations will show its strengths 
if  it  can  achieve  consensus  in  conf lict  situations  and 
push  through  to  find  solutions.  Resorting  to  the  right 
of the veto in the Security Council is difficult to justify 
in the event of genocide, war crimes or crimes against 
humanity.  That  is  why  Switzerland,  together  with 
other countries, continues to clamour for reform of the 
working methods of the Security Council. Transparency 
and the Council’s collaboration with other bodies within 
the Organization should be improved, and the right of 
veto should be limited.
For  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the President has chosen as the theme for the high-level 
debate  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. 
I applaud his choice. In recent years, the United Nations 
has  strengthened  its  capacity  in  the  area  of  mediation 
and  preventive  diplomacy,  which  has  brought  about  a 
re-evaluation  of  mediation  processes.  We  need  to  go 
further, however, as most of the United Nations budget 
continues  to  be  spent  on  peacekeeping  operations. 
Switzerland 
that  greater 
investment  in  peaceful  means  that  could  bring  about 
a  settlement  of  disputes,  especially  through  mediation 
and  preventive  diplomacy,  would  pay  off  in  the  long 
run. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure; 
that is as true for States as it is for people.
therefore  convinced 
is 
It  is  not  just  a  matter  of  funding.  Every  single 
conf lict that is averted means the avoidance of human 
suffering and the non-interruption of development in the 
countries concerned. Over the past decade, Switzerland 
has  actively  participated  in  more  than  30  mediation 
processes in some 20 countries. Moreover, Switzerland 
regularly makes its experts and know-how available to 
the  United  Nations  and  hopes  to  see  its  collaboration 
with the Organization grow. Adapted to current needs, 
special political missions respond to the complexity of 
political realities. Thanks to those missions, the United 
Nations  is  in  a  position  to  react  f lexibly  and  quickly 
in  the  event  of  a  constitutional  crisis  or  a  coup  d’état. 
As the main instruments of preventive diplomacy, such 
missions  should  be  strengthened,  specifically  through 
the  introduction  of  modalities,  financing  and  optimal 
support.
12-52035
3
A/67/PV.7
When  prevention  is  not  enough,  the  international 
community must act firmly. The United Nations should 
therefore  demonstrate  that  it  is  capable  of  intervening 
and imposing itself. Switzerland is deeply concerned by 
the dramatic worsening of the situation in Syria, where 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law  are 
being f louted. At this very moment, as I speak, innocent 
people are dying from bullets fired by the Syrian army 
and  the  armed  opposition.  Thousands  of  people  have 
been killed, more than 1 million are on the run in their 
own  country  and  some  250,000  have  sought  refuge 
in  neighbouring  countries.  It  is  difficult,  maybe  even 
impossible, to reach hundreds of thousands of victims 
who, wounded and traumatized, are condemned to wait 
in zones under siege. United Nations agencies estimate 
that  approximately  2.5  million  people  need  urgent 
humanitarian assistance. Switzerland has therefore set 
aside more than $15 million for humanitarian assistance 
in Syria and neighbouring countries.
As long as human rights continue to be trampled upon 
and those responsible are not sufficiently perturbed, it 
will  be  impossible  to  guarantee  security.  Switzerland 
therefore calls for the perpetrators of serious violations 
of human rights answer for their actions. The impunity 
of  perpetrators  is  not  just  immoral;  by  compromising 
the  process  of  reconciliation  that  gets  under  way  in  a 
society after a war, it encourages history to repeat itself.
Switzerland  leads  a  group  of  some  30  countries 
that  are  asking  that  the  International  Criminal  Court 
take  up  the  case  of  Syria.  I  would  invite  all  heads  of 
State and Government present here today to rally to that 
initiative. The international community must be made 
aware of the extent of human rights violations in Syria. 
Switzerland  welcomes  the  work  of  the  commission 
of  inquiry  set  up  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
calls  for  it  to  be  strengthened.  It  also  welcomes  the 
appointment  of  Mr.  Brahimi  as  the  new  Joint  Special 
Representative of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States for the Syrian crisis and will do its utmost 
to  help  him  find  a  political  solution  to  the  conf lict  in 
that country.
We  know  that  our  use  of  the  world’s  available 
resources  is  not  sustainable  at  the  global  level.  We 
are  exploiting  those  resources  without  concern  for 
the  future.  We  also  know  that  human  beings  are  the 
cause of climate change. The fate of our planet rests in 
our  hands.  Much  will  depend  on  whether  we  succeed 
in  making  the  transition  to  sustainable  development 
and  whether  we  succeed  in  moving  towards  a  green 
economy.  The  Rio+20  outcome  document  provides  us 
with an opportunity that we must embrace. We must act 
today so that future generations do not have to pay the 
price for our inaction.
However, a great deal of mutual distrust remains, as 
does the fear that not everyone will be able to compete 
on equal terms in a green economy. We must overcome 
that hurdle. Switzerland will play its part in sharing the 
burden of efforts between the North and the South. The 
Green Climate Fund will be a key element in financing 
that  transition.  It  should  therefore  be  set  up  without 
delay  and  in  an  optimal  environment.  I  am  convinced 
that Geneva can offer such an environment.
The  transition  to  a  green  economy  also  requires 
new approaches, in terms of both thinking and acting. 
In any process of change, there are winners and losers. 
However,  with  regard  to  sustainable  development 
the  winners  and  losers  are  the  same,  namely,  future 
generations. Either they will be able to continue to live 
in  an  intact  environment  where  they  benefit  from  the 
natural  resources  they  need,  or  they  will  have  to  put 
up  with  a  decline  in  the  standard  of  living  due  to  the 
exhaustion of resources and the broad consequences of 
climate change. Our common challenge lies in ensuring 
the well-being of all without overexploiting our natural 
resources.
Switzerland  attaches  the  greatest  importance  to 
the  post-2015  agenda,  which  will  allow  us  to  benefit 
from our experience with the Millennium Development 
Goals in order to prepare for the future. That approach 
gives us the opportunity to consider all dimensions of 
sustainable development together and, for the first time 
ever, develop a universal system of targets for the well-
being of future generations throughout the world.
is  an 
important  element 
Switzerland  is  convinced  that  setting  sustainable 
development  goals 
in 
strengthening  that  development.  It  will  play  an  active 
part  in  defining  a  new  system  of  goals.  Switzerland 
believes  it  imperative  to  combine  discussions  on  the 
post-2015 agenda and on sustainable development goals 
into a single process.
According  to  the  Roman  philosopher  Seneca,  it  is 
not that we have a short space of time, but that we waste 
much of it. So let us today take on the great challenges 
before us. Let us join forces to bring about more peace 
and security in the world and better protect human rights. 
Let us put an end to the impunity of the perpetrators of 
serious human rights abuses and bring them to account. 
4 
12-52035
Let us take bold steps for more sustainable development 
in the interests of our children and grandchildren. And 
let us strengthen the United Nations so that, as the only 
truly  universal  Organization,  it  is  better  equipped  to 
address those immense challenges.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Swiss  Confederation  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.
Ms.  Eveline  Widmer-Schlumpf,  President  of  the 
Swiss  Confederation,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of 
the Argentine Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Argentine Republic.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Cristina 
Fernández, President of the Argentine Republic, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Fernández  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like to begin my statement by confirming my personal 
position  and  that  of  the  Argentine  Republic  and  the 
Argentine people with regard to our emphatic rejection 
and  repudiation  of  the  savage  assassination  of  United 
States  Ambassador  Christopher  Stevens  in  the  city  of 
Benghazi,  Libya.  That  ugly  act  of  terrorism  warrants 
that  we  ref lect  upon  certain  interpretations  of  events 
that took place in various Arab countries and were for 
many Western leaders interpreted as or called the Arab 
Spring.  But,  in  reality,  from  our  point  of  view  —  and 
I  say  this  humbly  and  with  all  respect  —  it  ref lected 
other  situations  that  were  not  correctly  perceived  or 
understood by the main leaders in the West.
It  is  no  accident  that  the  death  of  Chris  Stevens 
occurred  in  Benghazi,  where  the  principal  focus  of 
resistance  against  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi’s  regime 
originated, and where those of us with an understanding 
of  international  politics  clearly  know  that  the  main 
Islamic  fundamentalists  were  located  —  not  just 
opponents  of  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi’s  regime,  but 
A/67/PV.7
those opposed to the very idea of peaceful coexistence 
between  men  and  women  of  different  races,  religions, 
beliefs or faiths.
I  say  that  because  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  clear 
understanding  of  our  problems  and  of  the  situations 
in  the  world,  particularly  in  the  Middle  East.  It  is 
important to understand the need for different policies 
geared to building true and lasting peace — a peace that 
must always imply choosing the language of diplomacy 
before choosing the language of weapons. If one reviews 
recent  history,  one  can  see  that  important  figures  or 
political factions that appear to be allied with the West 
frequently end up becoming sworn enemies of Western 
values,  perhaps  as  a  result  of  poor  interpretations  or 
policies ill suited to what was happening in the Middle 
East and around the world.
The  need  to  recognize  the  Palestinian  State  and 
the  need  to  recognize  that  Israel  must  live  within 
legally recognized borders in accordance with the 1967 
borders is the crux of the problem in the Middle East. 
The Argentine Republic — and I believe we ref lect the 
interests of our region — maintains that it is necessary 
to  have  a  response  to  an  issue  that  has  been  calling 
for  a  solution  for  decades.  Yet,  owing  to  different 
circumstances,  to  Governments  and  to  interests  in 
the  West,  which  has  an  enormous  responsibility  of 
leadership  in  the  issue,  nothing  constructive  has  been 
achieved.
For  Chris  Stevens,  and  for  his  family,  there  will 
be  no  Arab  Spring,  but  rather  a  terrible  and  eternal 
winter.  That  is  why  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  we 
in  the  West  rethink  our  strategies  and  policies  with 
respect to the Middle East. Otherwise, we run the risk 
of ending up embarking upon erroneous strategies that 
undermine our values and deepen the crisis. What will 
happen  is  what  happened  in  Benghazi,  and  we  shall 
have to mourn the death of a diplomat, regardless of his 
nationality. In this case, it was an American, something 
that had not happened for a very long time.
A similar situation could be described with respect 
to the other great crisis, which was apparently economic 
in nature and which is shaking the world. In 2008, when 
we  came  to  the  General  Assembly,  Lehman  Brothers 
collapsed,  causing  a  crisis  that  seemed  triggered  by 
poor  people  who  could  not  pay  off  the  mortgages  on 
their homes — the famous sub-prime loans crisis — but 
it has ended up today as something greater than a crisis 
of the poor who cannot pay off their mortgages.
12-52035
5
A/67/PV.7
that 
It  has  spread  well  beyond  that  issue.  It  has  been 
discovered 
those  financial 
administrators  of  capital  who  were  behind  all  this. 
Actually,  it  was  the  wealthiest  sectors  of  society  who 
created this global crisis.
it  was  precisely 
In  Europe  the  eurozone  crisis  is  basically  a  crisis 
of  sovereign  debt  for  countries  that  owe  more  than 
their  gross  domestic  product  (GDP).  Also,  families 
have  taken  on  more  debt  than  they  can  pay  off  in  the 
next  20  or  30  years.  At  this  very  moment  in  Spain 
there  is  repression  against  indignant  citizens  who  are 
demonstrating  against  the  belt-tightening  programme 
being  imposed  on  their  country.  They  are  protesting 
the same austerity programme that has been applied for 
decades now and that has not borne any fruit.
When  we  in  Argentina  discuss  the  problem  we 
talk  about  it  with  deep-seated  knowledge  of  the 
type  of  neoliberal  policies  that  were  the  result  of  the 
Washington consensus, which was launched following 
the problems in the 1990s and ended up exploding as a 
default  on  the  most  significant  sovereign  debt  known 
in history. Argentina owed 160 per cent of its GDP, the 
result of debt policies that in turn had resulted from the 
industrialization and ongoing imposed adjustment and 
consumption  policies.  Those  policies  were  ferociously 
and methodically imposed on countries, just as we are 
seeing now with Spain, Greece and Portugal, with the 
resulting danger to the eurozone.
Endangering the eurozone involves more than just 
the  undermining  of  an  economic  region.  It  is  actually 
endangering  the  very  stability  of  the  world  financial 
system.  We  should  recall  that  some  65  per  cent  of 
international  reserves  deposited 
in  central  banks 
around the world are in United States dollars, and some 
24 per cent are in euros.
It  is  necessary  to  rethink  all  of  this.  We  need  to 
rethink  the  trade  war  that  has  exploded  between 
various  countries.  Some  countries  have  denounced  it 
as  protectionism.  Basically,  participants  in  such  trade 
wars assert that such policies are needed to defend their 
societies, their workers, their labour markets and their 
businesses  against  developed  countries’  economies, 
which actually were the root cause of the crisis we are 
all  experiencing  today.  The  developed  countries  are 
trying  to  push  their  problems  off  on  to  others.  I  keep 
asking,  if  one  of  our  countries  had  had  a  deficit  in  its 
current  account,  such  as  the  United  States  is  running 
right  now,  that  country  would  no  doubt  have  been 
censored,  punished  and  criticized.  Of  course,  because 
dollars  are  the  reserve  currency  —  some  85  per  cent 
of  world  transactions  are  in  dollars  —  and  the  United 
States  has  been  considered  the  country  that  issues  the 
money used as reserve currency par excellence, it ends 
up being outside of the whole system. It is not criticized 
and is not targeted by the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF).  Yet  the  IMF  continues  to  impose  adjustment 
policies.  Even  yesterday,  there  were  threats  issued  to 
countries like the Argentine Republic.
The  IMF  has  tried  to  allude  to  sovereign  debts 
as  though  the  whole  thing  were  just  a  soccer  game.  If 
Argentina  were  unable  to  accomplish  certain  things, 
the country was going to be given a red card, just as in 
soccer. I just want to say to the head of that organization 
that  this  is  not  a  soccer  game.  First,  this  is  the  most 
serious  political  and  economic  crisis  in  memory  since 
the  1930s.  Secondly,  my  country  is  not  a  player  in  a 
soccer game; it is a sovereign nation, which makes its 
decisions  on  a  sovereign  basis.  It  will  not  be  subject 
to  pressures  brought  to  bear  from  the  outside  nor  any 
threats  of  red  cards.  Finally,  continuing  with  this 
analogy between soccer and the economy, the President 
of the International Federation of Association Football 
(FIFA) does a much more satisfactory job than the head 
of the IMF.
With  regard  to  organization  and  responsibility, 
FIFA  organizes  world  matches  every  four  years.  Next 
time, they will be in Brazil, and no doubt they will be a 
success. The International Monetary Fund is in charge 
of  organizing  economies  and  has  been  doing  so  since 
the  1980s,  and  yet  it  has  been  unable  to  carry  out  its 
task  effectively.  However,  it  seems  that  it  is  countries 
that should be criticizing themselves, whereas I do not 
hear any self-criticism from the IMF. 
With  regard  to  the  statistics  for  Spain,  what  were 
the  statistics  for  Greece  or  Portugal,  Ireland  or  Italy? 
What  were  the  figures  that  allowed  them  to  go  more 
into debt without any kind of control or oversight? Why 
are  some  countries  being  controlled  and  not  others? 
That is a question that we have to ask, and that we are 
asking  from  this  rostrum.  Since  2003,  we  have  been 
saying this.
When President Néstor Kirchner came here for the 
first  time  he  was  representing  an  Argentina  that  had 
been  devastated  by  the  crisis,  with  poverty  at  levels 
that we had never seen before: 25 per cent of Argentine 
people had no work. People were losing their savings in 
6 
12-52035
dollars, roubles, pesos, pounds, whatever; they simply 
had  nothing  left.  They  came  to  the  United  Nations 
and said that we needed an opportunity to grow. For a 
country to pay off its debt, it needs to be able to grow. 
The  dead  do  not  pay  off  their  debts.  That  is  what  the 
Argentine  President  said,  and  he  was  not  mistaken. 
In  2003,  based  on  the  policies  he  was  able  to  put  into 
place, and without access to capital markets, Argentina 
was able to restructure a significant part of its foreign 
debt.  We  have  been  rigorously  making  every  single 
payment  since  2005.  We  will  continue  making  those 
payments  because  we  believe  in  policies  that  promote 
national production.
We  are  working  with  the  most  vulnerable  sectors 
of  society  and  promoting  social  programmes.  We 
have  dedicated  more  than  1  per  cent  of  our  GDP  to 
those  programmes.  We  have  put  social  policies  and 
programmes  in  place,  and  they  are  the  most  notable 
in  Latin  America.  They  have  allowed  us  to  promote 
growth, which undoubtedly is the most significant seen 
in  the  last  200  years  of  the  history  of  the  Argentine 
Republic.
We  are  not  coming  here  to preach  to  anyone  or  to 
teach lessons. We do not think that we are teachers. We 
just want to tell the Assembly about the experience of 
one country that went through a situation quite similar 
to  that  now  being  experienced  by  other  countries  in 
the  developed  world.  What  we  want  to  contribute  is 
our  empirical  experience,  not  theoretical  experiences. 
There are still decisions that need to be taken, but that 
have  not  been  taken  because  many  continue  to  follow 
the practices of those who control the capital markets. 
They  hit  one  country  and  then  another.  One  day, 
the  stock  market  goes  up  20  per  cent,  skyrockets,  and 
then  it  plummets  the  following  day.  We  may  not  be 
economists, but we are not stupid either. We are talking 
about incredible transfers of money, and those who end 
up being harmed are the same millions of people who 
lose their jobs and lose their hope. What I hope to see 
is that they do not lose patience. Usually, when people 
lose  patience,  that  is  when  they  hit  the  wall.  When 
people cannot find a job and do not have a State that is 
protecting them, it becomes a political and institutional 
crisis. That is what happened to us in 2001 in Argentina.
I also believe that it is important to understand that 
we  have  a  new  world  before  us  now.  This  new  world 
requires more creative leadership.
A/67/PV.7
It  requires  taking  the  risk  of  applying  new  ideas 
and new concepts. Trying to solve the current problems 
of the world with the same medicines that caused them 
is absolutely absurd. That has to be stated clearly.
Then  there  is  the  matter  of  the  current  accounts 
deficit,  which  is  transferred  from  the  United  States  to 
emerging countries, so that our currencies are devalued 
and  we  have  to  make  immense  efforts  to  build  up  our 
reserves. We also have to take measures to prevent the 
central countries from transferring cheap merchandise 
to us that undermines our economies — the economies 
of the emerging countries that, it bears saying, propped 
up  the  growth  of  the  global  economy  during  the  past 
decade.
Today,  as  emerging  countries,  we  are  being 
condemned  as  protectionist  by  the  very  countries  that 
survived by protecting themselves through agricultural 
subsidies and all sorts of special breaks at the expense 
of  our  economies  and,  above  all,  of  millions  of  our 
people  who  only  now  are  being  incorporated  into  the 
labour force.
It is crucial for developed countries to understand 
the  contribution  that  emerging  countries  can  make  to 
the  international  economic  recovery  with  the  millions 
of  dollars  we  still  owe,  on  top  of  our  costs  for  social 
benefits  and  production.  Besides,  we  have  paid  down 
our debt to levels never seen before. Argentina, whose 
foreign  debt  represented  160  per  cent  of  its  gross 
national product, today owes only 14 per cent of its gross 
national product abroad; the remainder of its borrowing 
is  intrasectoral  public  debt.  We  are  at  the  lowest  level 
ever of foreign debt and debt held by foreign sources.
Obviously,  for  some  we  are  a  bad  example.  Why? 
Because  when  we  restructured  our  debt  —  and  I  am 
not  proposing  restructurization  as  a  solution  —  we 
held that under capitalism anyone who risked investing 
dollars in a country like Argentina, with interest rates 
in  the  1990’s  between  15  and  16  per  cent  to  ensure 
convertibility,  when  the  rate  in  rest  of  the  world  was 
a  mere  two  per  cent,  had  to  know  that  there  was  a 
substantial  risk  that  that  person,  that  bank  or  that 
institution would not repay the debt.
Our thesis was that if they had taken the risk, they 
should share it. We therefore proposed a restructuring 
whereby  both  parties  would  share.  The  fact  is  that 
Argentina  paid  its  stockholders  more  than  Enron  did. 
Enron paid, I believe, $1 per $100 share; Argentina paid 
$25 to $30 on $100. In reality, we were more generous 
12-52035
7
A/67/PV.7
and  responsible  than  Enron  was,  not  just  towards  the 
rest of the world but to the citizens of the United States.
That may of course annoy certain multilateral credit 
institutions,  especially  because,  during  the  1990’s, 
Argentina was held up as an example of the way things 
should be done, while in 2001 we were left to our own 
devices and told to resolve things by ourselves. I believe 
that  is  why  some  would  censure  us  or  fine  us,  so  that 
our bad example does not spread, but if we think of the 
world as a totality, we will understand that that is not an 
economic problem, but a political one. Without leaders 
who can point to a clear, specific path for overcoming 
a  world  economic  crisis  of  this  magnitude,  we  are  no 
longer  facing  a  problem  of  economics  or  economists; 
we are facing a problem of politics for which there are 
neither solutions nor responses nor new models.
We  know  that  some  multilateral  agencies  are 
angry  with  Argentina,  but  we  tell  them  there  is  no 
point  being  angry  with  us.  The  important  thing  is  to 
analyse the mistakes that were made in both economics 
and  politics  and  what  was  done  wrong  so  that  we  can 
correct  them,  move  forward  and  overcome  this  crisis, 
because  if  allowed  to  continue  it  will  trigger  not  just 
severe  economic  problems  but  severe  political  and 
institutional  ones.  Having  been  a  political  activist  at 
a  young  age  and  having  experienced  periods  in  my 
country when Western values were not respected, when 
people were raped, tortured and disappeared — because 
democracy had disappeared — what I am most afraid of 
is that if there continues to be no solution to the present 
crisis, many millions of people in the West will cease to 
believe that a democratic system can provide solutions.
If  we  examine  human  history,  we  can  clearly  see 
that the most terrible totalitarian periods were preceded 
by severe economic crises that gave people no way out, 
deprived  them  of  hope  and  filled  their  ears  with  siren 
songs that promised things we all know could never be 
delivered.
I wanted to speak emphatically about how to tackle 
the  problem,  about  how  to  conceive  of  it,  so  that  the 
situation  can  be  brought  back  into  line  instead  of 
languishing  as  it  has  since  2008.  Unfortunately,  we 
have begun to see that the crisis in the developed world 
is  starting  to  spread  into  emerging  countries,  which 
have been the engine of global growth.
I believe those things are connected. The lack of a 
correct interpretation, of an adequate classification, so 
that political and economic events get jumbled together, 
gives rise to fallacies — for example, that the people in 
certain political movements want to live like Westerners 
or  that  certain  orthodox  economic  adjustments  might 
lead  to  some  way  out  or  some  solution —  all  false,  of 
course.
resolution  2065 
I  would  now  like  to  address  two  topics  that  might 
be  called  bilateral  in  nature.  One,  in  the  form  of  this 
little booklet in English and Spanish, was delivered to 
each of the Missions represented here and deals with the 
question of the colonial status of the Malvinas. Last June, 
I  appeared  before  the  Committee  on  Decolonization 
here in New York to present our request for compliance 
with 
(XX),  which  urged  both 
countries — the United Kingdom and Argentina — to 
undertake a dialogue on the issue of the Malvinas. Next 
January,  it  will  have  been  180  years  since  the  United 
Kingdom  illegally  usurped  our  Malvinas  islands.  Not 
only has that country not ceased, it has not listened to 
or  heeded  any  of  the  many  allegations  and  resolutions 
of the United Nations, the resolutions of the Committee 
on Decolonization, and the many resolutions of various 
organizations  such  as  the  Organization  of  American 
States and other multilateral organizations such as the 
Rio Group, which have asked Great Britain to sit down 
to a dialogue with Argentina. We are not asking them 
to say that we are right. That would not be dialogue; it 
would be to impose a point of view. We are simply asking 
them  to  sit  down  with  us  to  comply  with  the  United 
Nations  resolution  and  to  undertake  a  dialogue  on  the 
sovereignty of the Malvinas, as well as to demilitarize 
the South Atlantic so that it becomes a region of peace 
in South America, without regard to ethnic, religious or 
any other differences that could lead to clashes between 
us. 
That  is  why  we  once  again  reiterate  our  appeal. 
There  is  a  clear  double  standard  here:  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  have  the  right  to 
violate any and every requirement of the United Nations, 
while  everyone  else  has  to  accept  without  demur  any 
and  every  Council  resolution.  That  is  not  building 
multilateralism. It contributes nothing whatever to the 
peacebuilding that we all demand and need, and it leads 
to a growing feeling of injustice and inequality between 
nations, which significantly affects the possibility of a 
more just world, of living in a world without violence.
That  is  why  we  say  once  again:  this  is  not  a 
bilateral issue between us and the United Kingdom. It 
has become a global issue — doing away with the last 
vestiges of colonialism, which became one of the great 
8 
12-52035
contributions  of  the  United  Nations  when  it  created 
the  Decolonization  Committee,  in  1961.  Entering  the 
twenty-first  century  without  colonies  is  a  matter  of 
human  rights,  rights  that  in  my  country  we  certainly 
defend  very  strongly;  our  support  for  them  is  an 
example to the world.
Finally  —  and  this  relates  to  the  early  part  of  my 
speech,  when  I  repudiated  and  condemned  the  killing 
of Ambassador Christopher Stevens in Libya — I would 
like  to  mention  something  that  for  us,  the  Argentine 
people,  continues  to  be  an  open  wound,  since  in 
its  case  justice  has  still  not  been  served.  That  is  the 
bombings of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina 
(AMIA)  in  1994  and  of  the  Israeli  Embassy  in  1992, 
acts  that  should  be  utterly  deplored  and  condemned. 
Former President Kirchner and I both asked the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, which stands accused by Argentina’s 
judiciary  of  participation 
its 
collaboration and cooperation. In 2010 and 2011, given 
the lack of response to that request, I suggested, as an 
alternative, that if the Islamic Republic of Iran did not 
trust  the  fairness  and  independence  of  the  Argentine 
judiciary, the solution could be based on a case that the 
Assembly  will  recall,  the  Libyan  terrorist  attack  on  a 
British airplane, in which a trial was eventually held in 
a third-party country to arrive at reparations — if one 
can talk of reparations in the case of death — for some 
of the damages. Thus both countries would agree on a 
third country where a trial would guarantee justice for 
both sides. In the aftermath of that terrible event, what 
was most important was the quest for truth.
that  crime,  for 
in 
I began my statement by talking about international 
terrorism, and I am ending it on the same subject. I am 
not talking about an act committed in a single African 
country against a single member of the diplomat corps; 
I am talking about what was done in my country, on my 
territory, to my brother Argentines, in clear violation of 
territorial sovereignty. Last Wednesday, 19 September, 
we received a request from the Islamic Republic of Iran 
for  a  bilateral  meeting  at  which,  as  we  understood  it, 
there would be a dialogue on this matter. My country, 
which  has  continued  to  ask  for  a  dialogue  and  which 
promotes  dialogue  as  a  universal  —  and,  in  the  case 
of  the  Malvinas,  a  specific  —  instrument,  decided 
to  instruct  our  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  to  hold  a 
bilateral meeting between the two ministries, here at the 
United Nations, as requested by the Islamic Republic of 
Iran.
A/67/PV.7
I  should  say  here  that  I  am  expecting  results 
from  that  meeting,  based  on  the  fact  that  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  showed  that  it  wanted  to  cooperate 
and  collaborate  on  the  matter  of  the  attack.  If  they  do 
not want to conduct the case in Argentina or in a third 
country,  we  hope  that  they  will  come  forward  with 
other  proposals  as  to  how  we  can  address  this  deep-
seated  conf lict,  dating  back  to  1994.  I  would  like  to 
remind the Assembly that when President Kirchner had 
just become President, in 2003, nine years had elapsed 
since the attack, without results. But I would also like 
to  say  that  we  hope  this  meeting  will  yield  specific, 
concrete  results  if  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  a 
proposal for making headway. It might not necessarily 
be in the direction proposed by Argentina, but I would 
in any case, as a member of a representative and federal 
republican  country,  submit  it  for  consideration  by  the 
representative  parliamentary  bodies  of  my  country.  A 
proposal  made  by  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  too 
important  to  be  resolved  through  executive  power 
alone,  quite  apart  from  the  fact  that  our  Constitution 
requires  that  the  legislature  and  judiciary  be  involved 
in such an issue. 
This  is  not  a  matter  of  casual  or  standard  foreign 
relations  with  another  country.  It  concerns  an  event 
that has marked the Argentine people and is enshrined 
in the history of international terrorism. The essential 
fact  is  that  the  families  of  the  victims,  to  whom  I  feel 
very  committed,  need  answers.  For  six  years  I  sat  on 
the  bicameral  commission  of  inquiry  into  both  the 
Embassy  and  the  AMIA  attacks,  and  I  was  always 
critical of how the investigation was conducted. That is 
why I believe I have the authority to address the families 
of  the  victims —  because  they  are  the  ones  who  truly 
need answers; they need to understand what happened 
and who is responsible — and to assure them that this 
President will not take any decisions on any proposals 
put forward without first and foremost consulting them 
and  the  parliamentary  representatives  of  my  country. 
They all have an obligation to voice an opinion publicly 
on a matter of this importance.
Lastly, I would like to say to every member of the 
Assembly  that  in  2013  and  2014  Argentina  will  have 
the  great  honour  and  responsibility  of  occupying  a 
seat  —  a  non-permanent  seat,  obviously  —  on  the 
Security  Council.  I  would  like  to  make  it  clear  that 
beyond the fact of our taking a seat at that table, each 
and  every  country  with  serious  aspirations  to  peace 
as  a  universal  value  will  be  represented  by  us  in  that 
12-52035
9
A/67/PV.7
seat.  That  is  not  a  disingenuous  or  informal  wish.  It 
is  a  firm  declaration  that  peace  must  go  hand  in  hand 
with truth, justice and equality. Peace is impossible in a 
world where countries are not all treated equally. Peace 
is  impossible  in  a  world  where  people  are  growing 
poorer  and  becoming  increasingly  excluded.  Peace  is 
impossible in a world where people do not tell the truth 
or state how things really are.
We  believe  that  in  peacebuilding  the  largest 
and  leading  nations  of  the  world  bear  the  greater 
responsibility.  Just  as  in  a  country’s  political  system 
the  President  bears  the  greatest  responsibility  and  the 
chain  continues  down  from  there,  the  same  is  true  in 
the wider world.
We  cannot,  beyond  the  call  for  equality,  turn  a 
blind eye to hegemonies or to the importance of certain 
countries in not only resolving conf licts but sometimes 
also in triggering them.
The  Argentine  Republic  will,  from  its  seat,  do 
everything  in  its  power  to  promote  the  values  that  it 
has  always  defended:  peace  and  the  unconditional 
promotion of human rights in all countries, whether we 
are on good terms with them or not. Human rights are 
universal values that should be respected by all types of 
Governments throughout the world. It is the obligation 
of the Assembly and the Security Council to act on the 
basis  of  a  single  standard  so  as  to  build  the  values  of 
peace,  human  rights,  equality  and  truth.  That  is  the 
only  way  to  bring  about  a  world  that  is  more  fair  and 
equitable than the one of today.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Argentine Republic for the statement she has just 
made.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Macky Sall, President of the 
Republic of Senegal
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of Senegal.
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Sall  (spoke  in  French):  I  should  like 
to  begin  by  extending  my  congratulations  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President 
of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  and  I 
wish him every success. I would also like to commend 
Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of 
the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for his positive 
contribution  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Assembly.  I 
would  like  to  reiterate  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon  the  encouragement  and  support  of  Senegal  in 
the  conduct  of  his  delicate  mission  at  the  head  of  our 
Organization.
On 25 March 2012, in a two-round, keenly contested 
presidential  election,  the  Senegalese  people,  inspired 
by  its  values  of  democracy  and  freedom,  calmly  and 
serenely voted massively, by more than 65 per cent, for 
change  and  the  respect  of  republican  norms.  We  were 
supported  by  friendly  countries  and  organizations 
in  that  great  undertaking,  which  was  aimed  at  the 
consolidation  of  our  democratic  tradition,  especially 
through  the  improvement  of  our  electoral  institutions 
and the monitoring of the various stages of the process. 
I  would  like  to  express  here  my  deep  gratitude  to  all 
those who supported that process.
In my capacity as Senegal’s newly elected President, 
let  me  reiterate  our  faith  in  our  shared  values  and  in 
the mandate of the United Nations to promote, through 
cooperation, the advent of a better and friendlier world 
for all.
Building  a  better  world  entails,  undoubtedly  and 
above  all,  working  together  for  peace  to  reign  among 
and  within  our  peoples,  as  suggested  by  the  theme  of 
this session: “Adjustment or settlement of international 
disputes or situations by peaceful means”.
Born out of the ashes and ruins of war, the United 
Nations is the expression of the dream of and hope for 
a world free from the spectre of antagonism and of any 
Manichaean view whereby the good are on one side and 
the bad on the other.
Sixty-seven  years  on,  through  mediation  efforts 
and  good  offices,  conciliation,  arbitration  and  peace 
missions,  the  United  Nations  has  made  a  considerable 
10 
12-52035
to 
the  pacification  of 
contribution 
international 
relations.  Yet,  although  commendable  progress  has 
been  achieved,  threats  to  peace  and  security  remain 
worrisome and have radically evolved.
terrorist  groups, 
That is the case in northern Mali, where organized 
and  heavily  armed 
living  off 
trafficking  of  all  kinds,  are  occupying,  in  complete 
illegality,  two  thirds  of  the  country,  sowing  despair 
among  the  population  and  destroying  symbols  of  the 
world’s cultural heritage. Northern Mali has become a 
lawless area, used as a safe haven for recruitment and 
training  by  the  international  terrorist  nebula,  which 
wrongly uses Islam as a pretext to disguise its criminal 
activities  and  seeks  to  attack  foreign  interests  as  well 
as extend its reach to other countries of the subregion.
As  the  guarantor  of  the  collective  security  of 
Member States under the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  Security  Council  has  an  obligation  to  act  in  order 
to  bring  an  end  to  such  a  situation.  If  it  does  not  do 
so,  it  will  have  failed  to  live  up  to  its  responsibilities. 
Therefore we call once again on the Council to authorize 
all  actions  required  to  combat  those  terrorist  groups 
and restore the country’s territorial integrity.
In  addition,  I  reiterate  our  firm  rejection  of  any 
partition of Mali and our condemnation of the 22 March 
2012  coup  d’état.  It  is  our  conviction  that  in  Africa  as 
elsewhere,  the  place  of  the  army  is  in  the  barracks, 
under the command of a civilian authority.
the  efforts  made  by 
As  for  Guinea-Bissau,  we,  like  other  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  member  States, 
appreciate 
transitional 
Government 
the 
re-establishment  of  the  country’s  institutions,  the 
holding  of  credible  elections  and 
the  definitive 
withdrawal of the army from the political arena.
towards  national 
the 
reconciliation, 
Already  ravaged  by  years  of  institutional  and 
economic instability, Guinea-Bissau also faces the issue 
of  foreign  drug  traffickers.  The  country  deserves  the 
attention and support of the international community.
The same holds true for Palestine.
In  its  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People, Senegal restates its support for the creation of 
a  viable  and  independent  Palestinian  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and  with  a  seat  here  among 
free nations. A viable and independent Palestine, living 
in  peace  with  the  State  of  Israel,  each  within  secure 
A/67/PV.7
and  internationally  recognized  borders,  is  one  of  our 
longest-standing  unfulfilled  promises,  even  though 
its  fulfilment  is  the  only  guarantee  for  a  peaceful, 
fair  and  lasting  settlement  of  the  Middle  East  crisis. 
In  the  interest  of  all  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  the 
world,  it  is  high  time  that  the  Holy  Land  of  the  three 
revealed religions no longer be a land of fire, blood and 
tears. The light of wisdom emanating from its spiritual 
legacies  requires  it  instead  to  be  a  land  of  peace  and 
human fraternity.
In  Africa,  as  in  the  rest  of  the  world,  Senegal 
welcomes  and  supports  the  progress  of  democracy 
and  fundamental  freedoms.  We  are  deeply  concerned 
because  some  leaders  deny  the  obvious  fact  that  the 
destiny  of  humankind  is  to  live  free,  and  respond  to 
the legitimate aspirations of their people with appalling 
violence against innocent civilians.
The  adjustment  or  settlement  of  international 
disputes or situations by peaceful means, the apt theme 
of this session, should not overshadow other emergencies 
and unmet needs. More than ever before, we live today 
in  an  era  of  paradoxes  and  unanswered  questions. 
The  greatest  paradox  of  our  time  is  that  never  before 
in  human  history  has  the  world  accumulated  so  much 
wealth even though never before in human history has 
the world counted so many poor. So what will the world 
of  tomorrow  be  like?  The  question  is  indeed  difficult, 
but to govern is to foresee and we cannot dodge it.
What kind of world do we want when, 20 years after 
the Rio Earth Summit, it is a proven fact that continuous 
environmental degradation as a result of human activity 
threatens to jeopardize the conditions for life on Earth? 
What  kind  of  world  do  we  want  when,  according  to 
estimates  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of  the  United  Nations,  more  than  900  million  people 
suffer from undernourishment even though agriculture 
has  the  potential  to  feed  more  than  twice  the  planet’s 
population?  What  kind  of  world  do  we  want  when, 
in  our  towns  and  villages,  millions  of  human  beings 
have no access to basic social services and millions of 
women die in childbirth?
What  kind  of  world  do  we  want  when  millions 
of  young  people,  after  years  of  study,  hard  work  and 
sacrifice  to  escape  their  misery,  rather  than  realizing 
their  dreams  are  rewarded  with  nothing  but  the 
nightmare  and  indignity  of  unemployment?  What 
kind  of  world  do  we  want  when  millions  of  fathers 
and  mothers  working  for  the  minimum  wage  wake  up 
12-52035
11
A/67/PV.7
one  morning  unemployed  because  the  company  has 
gone bankrupt, while those responsible enjoy generous 
golden parachutes?
In a time of so many old and new challenges, history 
has  shown  that  paradigms  have  changed  and  that  old 
solutions will definitely not work. We need to redefine 
our priorities, invest in the real economy and agree on 
a  new  and  fairer  world  order.  The  African  continent, 
having  endured  centuries  of  slavery  and  exploitation, 
cannot afford to accept yet another Trojan Horse and be 
duped into forfeiting its resources in a contest hobbling 
its progress and well-being.
We  call  for  new  relations  with  Africa,  not  acting 
upon  Africa  and  Africans  but  acting  with  Africa  and 
Africans, in a spirit of cooperation and fairness, taking 
into  account  all  parties’  priorities  and  interests.  That 
is  the  hope  we  declare  here  in  the  United  Nations.  It 
is  also  what  we  call  for  in  the  relations  between  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development, on the one 
hand,  and  the  Group  of  Eight,  Group  of  20  and  other 
partnership mechanisms, on the other hand.
As for Senegal, beyond the demands of democracy 
and good governance, about which we agree, our national 
priorities  must  more  than  ever  focus  on  agriculture, 
infrastructure and energy. That is the only path to the 
progress  that  will  improve  people’s  day-to-day  lives, 
the sine qua non of development and democratization.
With respect to the reform of the Security Council, 
Senegal  reaffirms  its  belief  in  the  African  position 
expressed in the Ezulwini Consensus. It is only justice 
and  common  sense  that  Africa,  the  continent  with  the 
largest number of countries at the United Nations, and 
whose problems take up most of the work of the Council, 
should  be  fairly  represented  in  that  body.  Indeed,  the 
democracy required of States should also be required of 
the Organization to which they all belong.
To  conclude,  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation,  currently  chaired  by  Senegal, 
I  hope  to  renew  our  common  faith  in  dialogue  and 
the  peaceful  coexistence  of  religions,  cultures  and 
civilizations.  Entering  into  dialogue  and  learning  to 
live  together  depends  on  recognizing  and  respecting 
our differences as a source of richness rather than as a 
springboard for confrontation. It requires rejecting the 
defamation  of  religions  and  violence  in  all  its  forms. 
It  demands  renouncing  any  thought  of  domination  by 
one  culture  or  one  civilization  over  others.  It  is  about 
promoting mutual understanding in order to overcome 
unfounded  feelings  of  suspicion  and  fear  that  deform 
our common humanity.
If  humankind  embraces  the  “civilization  of  the 
universal”  advocated  by  my  illustrious  compatriot, 
the  late  President  and  poet  Léopold  Sédar  Senghor, 
man  will  no  longer  be  a  wolf  to  man,  as  Hobbes  said. 
Instead,  as  the  saying  in  our  country  goes,  man  will 
become a remedy to man. We owe that to ourselves and 
to future generations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Senegal for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of South Africa.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Jacob Zuma, 
President of the Republic of South Africa, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Zuma: I thank you, sir, for the opportunity 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh 
general debate. Let me start by congratulating Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić  and  the  Republic  of  Serbia  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  also  acknowledge  the  contribution  of 
the President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser.
South  Africa 
in 
fundamentally  believes 
the 
principles  and  purposes  contained  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, and correctly so, given our nation’s 
history. This year, we are proudly celebrating 100 years 
of our people’s self less struggle for freedom, led by the 
African  National  Congress  movement.  We  recall  with 
great  appreciation  the  immense  contribution  of  the 
12 
12-52035
United Nations to the creation of a free and democratic 
South Africa.
In  1966,  the  General  Assembly  labelled  apartheid 
a crime against humanity in resolution 2202 A (XXI), 
which  ultimately  led  to  the  International  Convention 
on  the  Suppression  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of 
Apartheid,  later  known  as  the  Apartheid  Convention. 
The  United  Nations  defined  the  crime  of  apartheid 
as  “inhuman  acts  committed  for  the  purpose  of 
establishing and maintaining domination by one racial 
group of persons over any other racial group of persons 
and  systematically  oppressing  them”  (resolution  3068 
(XXVIII), annex, article II). The Apartheid Convention 
was adopted by the General Assembly on 30 November 
1973  and  set  the  tone  for  vociferous  action  against 
apartheid around the world.
Let me repeat the words our leader and international 
icon,  President  Nelson  Mandela,  uttered  in  his  very 
first address to the General Assembly, in 1994, the first 
by a democratically elected leader and Head of State of 
our country. He said,
“The  millions  of  our  people  say  ‘Thank  you’ 
and ‘Thank you again, because the respect for your 
own  dignity  as  human  beings  inspired  you  to  act 
to  ensure  the  restoration  of  our  dignity  as  well.’” 
(A/49/PV.14, p.7)
The theme of this session is most appropriate as it 
takes us back to the basics — to the founding principles 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  founders  intended  the 
United  Nations  to  be  the  foremost  multilateral  forum 
entrusted  with  bringing  hope,  peace  and  order  to  the 
world.  Indeed,  the  United  Nations  enjoys  universal 
membership  and  is  at  the  centre  of  global  governance 
and multilateralism. The theme reminds us that peace is 
a choice. We can either choose peace as Member States 
or choose the path of conf lict.
The founders of the United Nations made that choice 
67 years ago. They decided that the United Nations must 
lead  the  world  to  peace.  It  is  important  for  the  United 
Nations and its organs, especially the Security Council, 
to  execute  the  Organization’s  mandate  of  working  for 
peace  without  fear  or  favour.  We  must  not  steer  away 
from the founding objectives of the Organization.
The United Nations faces immense pressure when 
the world sees the unprecedented loss of lives, as it now 
does  in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  It  is  of  concern 
when it appears as if the United Nations were unable to 
A/67/PV.7
act and assist, and when it comes across as paralysed in 
certain  instances,  due  to  the  actions  of  some  Member 
States. We have seen a divided Security Council unable 
to  muster  the  collective  courage  to  say  “no  more”  to 
warring  parties  in  the  interest  of  peace.  That  brings 
to the fore the need to continue and deepen the reform 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  organs  to  make  it  agile 
and nimble in addressing the contemporary challenges 
facing humanity.
The  debate  on  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  organs,  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  has 
been  going  on  for  the  past  18  years.  However,  there 
has  been  no  significant  movement  forward.  I  would 
like  to  focus  in  particular  on  the  Security  Council. 
Given  its  mandate,  the  Council  has  to  be  legitimate, 
democratic and transparent. Its current composition has 
a propensity for deadlock and paralysis even in the face 
of crisis. It remains unrepresentative and undemocratic 
in both its composition and decision-making.
like 
We  would 
to  see  a  more  meaningful 
representation of Africa in the Security Council. About 
70 per cent of the Council’s agenda is taken up by issues 
from  the  African  continent.  The  Security  Council  has 
to  be  expanded  in  both  categories,  with  at  least  two 
seats for Africa in the permanent category and five in 
the non-permanent category. In addition to seats for the 
continent in the composition of the Council, the United 
Nations should also fully recognize and appreciate the 
role of regional organizations working with the United 
Nations in conf lict management and resolution.
In that regard, we urge closer collaboration with the 
African  Union  (AU)  peace  and  security  mechanisms, 
especially  given  the  progress  being  made  by  the  AU 
in conf lict resolution and peacebuilding in some parts 
of  the  continent  since  its  formation  10  years  ago. 
Therefore, cognizance should be taken of Chapter VIII 
of the Charter, in particular when dealing with African 
issues.That is why South Africa piloted resolution 2033 
(2012)  during  our  rotating  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council in January.
Currently,  the  AU  continues  to  address  one  of  the 
longest outstanding conf licts on the continent through 
one  of  its  mechanisms,  the  African  Union  High-level 
Implementation  Panel  on  the  Sudan.  Together,  as  the 
international  community,  we 
recently  celebrated 
the  creation  of  the  State  of  South  Sudan.  We  wish 
to  congratulate  the  Somalis  and  their  leadership  on 
choosing the path of peace, democracy and prosperity. 
12-52035
13
A/67/PV.7
The  international  community  and  the  United  Nations 
must  continue  to  give  the  people  of  Somalia  all  the 
necessary support.
Africa is indeed making progress and, with United 
Nations  support,  that  could  go  further.  To  promote 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  we  also  wish  to 
emphasize  that  the  Security  Council  should  carry  out 
its Charter mandate within the confines of international 
law.
Any  Member  State  or  international  body  that 
implements Council resolutions should be accountable 
to  the  Council,  so  as  to  ensure  that  we  avoid  the 
abuse  of  internationally  agreed  principles  such  as  the 
responsibility to protect and the protection of civilians. 
Those  principles  must  not  be  used,  amongst  other 
things,  to  justify  the  notion  of  regime  change.  They 
exist  to  prevent  mass  atrocities,  war  crimes,  genocide 
and  ethnic  cleansing.We  should  continue  the  debate 
on  them  in  order  to  develop  norms  and  standards  for 
accountability when actions are taken.
It  is  also  of  critical  importance  for  the  United 
Nations to closely guard its impartiality, independence 
and objectivity and not allow itself to be dragged into a 
conf lict to take sides with any party under the guise of 
protecting civilians.
The situation in the Middle East, in particular the 
Palestine-Israeli  question,  continues  to  be  of  concern 
to  us.  The  United  Nations  should  play  a  central  and 
decisive  role  in  efforts  to  resolve  the  long-standing 
conf lict  in  that  region.  Any  act  of  aggression  or 
violations  of  international  law  should  be  condemned 
unequivocally  by  the  United  Nations  at  all  times.  As 
the United Nations, we cannot be seen to be strong in 
condemning  some  acts  while  being  soft  on  others.  As 
South  Africa,  we  remain  committed  to  the  two-State 
solution based on the 1967 borders, with Palestine and 
Israel coexisting side by side in peace.
Let  me  also  emphasize  that  South  Africa  fully 
supports the application by Palestine for full membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  unacceptable  that,  even 
today, Palestine remains outside the membership of the 
United Nations. We trust that that matter will soon be 
positively concluded.
In  further  promotion  of  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes,  we  believe  that  the  sovereign  right  of  States 
to  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  and  civilian  use  should 
be  respected  in  accordance  with  international  law. 
We  have  taken  note  that  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  has  been  able  to 
draw  the  conclusion  that  all  declared  nuclear  material 
in  Iran  is  used  for  peaceful  activities.  Clarification 
of  the  nature  of  undeclared  materials  will  enable  the 
international  community 
to  have  full  confidence 
in  the  exclusively  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme. South Africa therefore encourages Iran to 
continue its cooperation with the Agency.
We  should  also  remember  that  so  long  as  some 
States  are  allowed  to  operate  outside  internationally 
agreed  norms,  such  as  those  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  it  will  be 
difficult to expect others to operate within them. South 
Africa supports the long-standing call for a nuclear-free 
zone  in  the  Middle  East.  In  that  regard,  the  peaceful 
resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue is very important.
Let me use this opportunity to reiterate our support 
for  the  ongoing  struggle  for  self-determination  by  the 
people  of  Western  Sahara.  We  urge  the  international 
community to support their quest for freedom, human 
rights and dignity.
We  also  reiterate  our  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
economic and financial embargo against the people of 
Cuba  in  order  to  help  the  Cuban  people  to  gain  their 
economic freedom.
Poverty,  underdevelopment,  lack  of  opportunities 
and  competition  for  scarce  resources  contribute  to 
some of the conf licts in the developing world, including 
Africa.  Therefore, 
the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development  and  the  fight  against  poverty  cannot  be 
divorced from the quest for peace.
In  2015,  the  United  Nations  will  be  70  years  old 
and will also reach the target year for the achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). World 
leaders  committed  themselves  to  eradicating  extreme 
poverty,  facilitating  universal  primary  education, 
attaining  gender  equality,  improving  maternal  and 
child  health,  reducing  the  burden  of  disease  primarily 
by  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis, 
protecting  the  environment,  and  mobilizing  global 
partnerships  for  development  by  2015.  The  Heads  of 
State  also  committed  themselves  to  promoting  gender 
equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  as  effective 
ways  to  combat  poverty,  hunger  and  disease  and  to 
stimulate  truly  sustainable  development.  We  urge  the 
United Nations to continue promoting the achievement 
14 
12-52035
of  the  MDGs  and  other  instruments  whose  tenets 
advance the human rights of women.
We  are  concerned  that  sub-Saharan  Africa  is 
unlikely to meet the targets for the MDGs. Awareness 
of  that  possibility  should  not  make  us  give  up;  in  the 
next three years, we must accelerate the implementation 
of the MDGs. We appeal to all who have made financial 
commitments  to  Africa  for  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs not to renege on those commitments. We would 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  those  development 
partners  that  continue  to  stick  to  their  0.7  per  cent 
official  development  assistance  commitment  despite 
their financial difficulties at the domestic level.
We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  High-level 
Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  to  focus  on  the  acceleration 
of  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs,  and  would  urge 
that much of its focus be on assisting Africa in meeting 
all  its  targets.  However,  we  wish  to  caution  against 
prejudging the review outcome and prematurely setting 
in motion processes that would undermine the ideals of 
the MDGs.
The  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  should  be  at  the  centre  of 
our  collective  desire  to  resolve  international  disputes 
by  peaceful  means.  Racism  and  racial  discrimination 
continue  to  be  an  affront  to  the  very  basic  founding 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  and  must  be  fought 
relentlessly. We should shun any idea in any part of the 
world that seems to suggest that there is a superior race 
or human being on the basis of skin colour. The danger 
of  such  ideas  is  still  fresh  in  our  collective  memory. 
We  have  learned  from  the  evils  of  colonialism,  two 
World Wars and the system of apartheid. We should all 
renew our commitment to continue to build on the solid 
foundation laid by the Durban Declaration and the Plan 
of  Action  that  we  adopted  more  than  a  decade  ago  at 
the end of the World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance.
In  Durban  last  December,  South  Africa  had 
the  honour  of  hosting  the  seventeenth  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
seventh  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
serving  as  the  Meeting  of  the  Parties  to  the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  Member  States  must  ensure  that  agreements 
are  implemented.  In  that  regard,  the  Durban  Platform 
offers an opportunity for progress that we must utilize 
to move forward.
A/67/PV.7
Today’s timely debate is a reminder that, ultimately, 
peace is a choice. Peace is achievable. The wise and brave 
choices we have the power to make can deliver lasting 
peace to every corner of the world. We are called upon 
at this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly to 
choose peace by reforming and strengthening the United 
Nations so that it can play its rightful role and deliver 
peace,  security,  sustainable  development  and  respect 
for human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout 
the world. As the foremost multilateral forum bringing 
together all nations of the world, the United Nations is 
best placed to play this role. It requires our support as 
Member  States  at  all  times,  both  for  our  sake  and  for 
that of future generations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of South Africa for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Panama.
Mr.  Ricardo  Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of  the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricardo 
Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Martinelli Berrocal (spoke in Spanish): 
I  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  preside 
over this session of the General Assembly. I respectfully 
offer  him  the  support  of  the  Panamanian  delegation 
during  his  tenure.  We  welcome  his  proposal  to  focus 
this  high  level  debate  on  the  theme  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations  by  peaceful  means”.  That  theme  is  based 
on  Chapter  VI  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which 
addresses the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Since 
the  United  Nations 
has  played  an  essential  role  in  the  prevention  and 
its  establishment, 
12-52035
15
A/67/PV.7
resolution  of  international  conf licts.  The  commitment 
of the United Nations continues to be to protect future 
generations from the scourge of war and to ensure that 
peace  and  respect  among  nations  are  the  permanent 
conditions for global coexistence.
International  conf licts  have  always  been  and  will 
remain  a  challenge  for  the  international  community 
and a grave threat to freedom and the right to enjoy a 
peaceful coexistence among all the nations and peoples 
of the world. That is why all the countries of the world 
have  the  responsibility  to  ensure  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
The  Panamanian  people  possess 
the  strong 
conviction  and  the  commitment  to  use  all  existing 
peaceful  means  to  solve  international  conf licts  on  the 
basis  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  international 
law.  Those  are  simple  truths  that  are  easily  forgotten, 
but  which  we  all  must  defend.  They  are  the  basic 
condition for our existence in full peace, freedom and 
independence.
Panama advocates for the solution of all international 
conf licts by peaceful means. We support the promotion 
and  defence  of  multilateralism  and  of  all  multilateral 
organizations as ideal frameworks for solving, through 
dialogue  and  cooperation,  the  problems  that  aff lict 
humankind so that we may thereby maintain peace and 
international peace and security.
The  search  for  mediation  and  dialogue  has 
been  the  stance  that  Panama  has  historically  always 
maintained  with  regard  to  the  conf licts  that  disturb 
peace  and  international  political  stability.  That  search 
must  include  legitimate  representatives  of  the  parties 
in  conf lict,  who  must  make  efforts  to  recognize  the 
rights of their counterparts and comply with their own 
obligations,  with  sincerity  and  a  generous  spirit,  to 
reach just and permanent solutions.
For  that  reason,  the  Government  of  the  Republic 
of  Panama  considers  that  Palestine  has  the  right  to  be 
recognized as a nation-State. However, it must resolve 
its  differences  with  its  neighbour,  Israel,  recognizing 
that Israel has the right to a peaceful and safe existence 
within its national territory — a right that has already 
been  recognized  historically  and 
the 
international community.
legally  by 
Panama  expresses  its  concern  at  the  escalating 
violence  that  has  been  developing  in  the  Middle  East 
and calls upon the international community to propose 
and  attempt  to  enforce  plans  and  solutions  oriented 
towards peace, contributing to ending violent acts that 
affect the most vulnerable populations.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Panama 
expresses is concerned about the severe crisis that has 
affected  the  fraternal  Syrian  Arab  Republic  for  over 
a  year.  We  therefore  respectfully  remind  all  parties 
involved that peaceably resolving conf licts is the only 
means  acceptable  to  the  community  of  nations  and 
peoples of the world for achieving a just and permanent 
solution.
The  Panamanian  people  deeply  deplore 
the 
murder  of  His  Excellecy  Mr.  J.  Christopher  Stevens, 
Ambassador of the United States of America to Libya, 
as  well  as  the  Foreign  Service  personnel  who  were 
victims  of  the  nefarious  attack  against  the  American 
Consulate  in  Benghazi.  Our  prayers  and  thoughts  are 
with  their  families.  Panama  energetically  condemns 
such actions, which cause sorrow and grief to a friendly 
nation and which violate the fundamental principles of 
international law, particularly the Charter of the United 
Nations and the Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and 
Consular Relations.
The  recent  attacks  on  the  diplomatic  missions  of 
the  United  States,  Germany,  the  United  Kingdom, 
Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Israel and France are absolutely 
unjustifiable.  We  reiterate  that  host  States  have  an 
obligation to ensure the principle of the inviolability of 
the diplomatic and consular missions of the world and 
to  safeguard  international  peace  and  security,  as  they 
are  the  source  of  communication  and  understanding. 
We  call  loudly  and  clearly  for  tolerance,  dialogue  and 
peaceful coexistence,
The  Republic  of  Panama  is  convinced  that  all 
international  conf licts  should  be  settled  by  peaceful 
means,  using  the  instruments  and  mechanisms  that 
have been created for those purposes. For that reason, 
Panama  formally  joined  the  Group  of  Friends  of 
Mediation,  demonstrating  its  historic  commitment  to 
the peaceful solution of conf licts, which is the central 
topic of this debate at the current session of the General 
Assembly.
As a firm believer that dialogue is a powerful tool 
for  facilitating  peace  and  the  international  political 
stability  so  necessary  to  ensure  economic  and  social 
development for our peoples, Panama wishes to reiterate 
its call, as it has done on other occasions, to support the 
Chinese people in Taiwan so that they may have greater 
16 
12-52035
participation  as  observers  in  international  forums, 
organizations  and  initiatives  and  may  cooperate  and 
support  the  development  and  maintenance  of  peace 
both in Asia and other parts of the world.
Panama  is  a  multicultural  country  where  people 
of  diverse  ethnicities,  cultures  and  religions  coexist 
in  peace  and  harmony  and  which  has  historically 
maintained  friendly  relations  with  States  of  different 
political  and  ideological  orientations.  I  am  speaking 
of  a  demilitarized  country,  one  that  by  virtue  of  its 
domestic law adheres to the doctrine of human security 
and  that  possesses  a  canal  that  is  neutral.  In  addition, 
Panama  has  tradition  and  experience  as  a  participant 
in  efforts  for  the  peaceful  solution  of  international 
controversies. Those conditions are our guarantee and 
asset  in  advocating  for  a  world  that  is  peaceful  and 
respectful of international law.
Panama 
to 
be 
continues 
committed 
to 
multilateralism, dialogue and negotiation among States 
as  the  only  way  to  seek  and  achieve  just  solutions  in 
global affairs. As a part of this commitment, in 2013 we 
will host a series of important international meetings at 
the global and regional levels.
Panama  will  welcome  the  International  Congress 
of  the  Spanish  Language,  an  event  of  a  universal 
character  and  a  forum  for  the  ref lection  on  the  status 
of  the  Spanish  tongue,  which  shapes  our  identity  as 
a  nation  and  unites  the  peoples  of  Hispanic  America. 
In  2013,  Panama  will  also  host  the  Conference  of  the 
States Parties to the United Nations Convention against 
Corruption.  That  demonstrates  that  the  fight  against 
corruption  and  the  promotion  of  transparency  are 
essential  elements  of  the  modern  rule  of  law  to  which 
my Government is fully committed.
We  will  also  host  the  fifty-fourth  annual  meeting 
of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Inter-American 
Development Bank, at which ministers of economy and 
finance, central bank presidents and representatives of 
various  multilateral  financial  institutions  will  discuss 
topics related to their financial appointments.
In 
addition,  we  will  host 
the  Americas 
Competitiveness  Forum,  which  will  address  the  issue 
of  the  development  of  the  region’s  competitiveness 
agenda  on  the  basis  of  the  10  general  competitiveness 
principles of the Americas.
We  will  also  host  the  Ibero-American  summit, 
which  will  bring  together  the  22  States  of  Latin 
A/67/PV.7
America  and  those  of  the  Iberian  peninsula.  That 
summit  represents  an  effort,  involving  dialogue  and 
cooperation, to foster the development of our countries 
by  opening  up  new  markets  and  new  opportunities 
for  trade  and  cooperation  with  the  peoples  and  the 
countries of Europe.
The international meetings set to take place in 2013 
will be held in the context of the celebration of a historic 
event  that  marks  Panamians  to  this  day.  I  note  that 
today is the anniversary of that event — the discovery 
of a passage, through our country, to the Pacific Ocean. 
Today — 25 September — marks almost 500 years since 
the so-called discovery of the South Sea, later known as 
the Pacific Ocean, a feat that changed the geography of 
world navigation and the history of humanity.
With the discovery of a passage from the Atlantic 
to  the  Pacific,  we  saw  the  beginning  of  a  process  of 
economic  and  demographic  globalization  around  the 
world.  From  that  moment  on,  Panama  began  to  play 
an  important  role  in  global  navigation  and  trade  that 
continues  today.  Since  then,  Panama  has  become  the 
primary  hub  of  the  Americas.  Indeed,  it  is  one  of  the 
most  important  telecommunications  and  navigation 
routes in the world.
We continue to make good progress in the expansion 
of  the  Panama  Canal  and  Tocumen  international 
airport, which will become the largest airport in Latin 
America.  Both  of  those  projects  will  make  it  possible 
to  further  develop  the  Panama  Canal  route  and  will 
have  a  tremendous  impact  on  international  trade  and 
on tourism.
The feat accomplished by Vasco Núñez de Balboa 
on  25  September  1513  helped  to  forge  Panama’s 
character as a country dedicated to the global transit of 
goods,  and,  with  the  construction  of  the  Canal,  it  was 
consolidated as the hub of worldwide maritime trade.
There  is  no  magic  formula  for  the  resolution  of 
conf licts.  Nor  do  the  global  conditions  exist  for  the 
complete fulfilment of Chapter VI of the Charter of the 
United Nations, on the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
The  world  still  has  some  important  steps  to  take  in 
order  to  ensure  that  dialogue  is  always  the  means  of 
adjudicating differences. There must be a commitment 
at the State level for meeting that goal.
One  of  the  major  steps  forward  we  must  take  is 
in  the  area  of  education.  Education  not  only  sets  us 
free:  it  makes  us  free  thinkers.  It  helps  us  understand 
12-52035
17
A/67/PV.7
and  respect  different  ideas.  It  provides  us  with  an 
opportunity to be dreamers. Through education we can 
learn  to  value  cultures  that  might  seem  strange  to  us; 
being different does not make us enemies. But in order 
to understand this in an all-encompassing way, we need 
a good and objective education.
Access  to  information  through  the  Internet  and 
social  networks  is  an  indispensable  tool  to  raise  the 
level of knowledge and discernment among all peoples.
While  I  advocate  for  the  responsible  use  of  those 
tools, I think that we have to go further. I believe that 
we  must  also  address  the  issues  of  equality  and  self-
esteem,  which  help  distance  us  from  resentment  and 
violence. Once again, education is the answer.
Such 
leads  us 
intangible  wealth 
to  honest 
competition.  The  substitution  of  competition  for 
violence can be achieved only through a modernization 
process in which our principles are preserved. A good 
education is one that is built upon a foundation of ethics 
and  values.  Money  is  not  the  best  type  of  assistance 
we  can  give  our  children.  The  best  assistance  we  can 
give them is an education that is divorced from politics, 
passions and paradigms. That is the only way to achieve 
excellence.
We  must  focus  our  educational  efforts  on  young 
children. Good, balanced primary education is the base 
of  a  solid  pyramid.  Educating  our  children  properly 
today  is  the  best  guarantee  of  a  better  future  for  all 
tomorrow.
Without  education,  there  is  no  possibility  of 
dialogue  and  vice  versa.  That  is  the  reason  for  my 
Government’s  focus  on  the  well-being  of  Panamanian 
children  through  the  improvement  of  our  schools 
and  classrooms; 
the  creation  of  a  free  national 
Internet  network;  the  provision  of  free  computers;  the 
implementation of a universal scholarship, without any 
distinction on the basis of class or politics; and, finally, 
the transformation of our educational curriculum.
However,  access  to  information  must  be  provided 
to children in keeping with their developmental stage, 
respecting the fact that they are children and requiring 
that they do the best they can for their age. To respect 
children is to harvest peace.
As I stated at the recent Connect Americas Summit, 
held in our country in July, we must continue to harness 
our respective wills to reduce the digital divide and to 
maximize Internet access around the world. Every step 
in that direction will be key to the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
Nevertheless,  I  remain  uneasy  about  the  risks 
posed  by  the  misuse  of  cyberspace  for  boys,  girls  and 
adolescents.
Our job will not be finished if we do not assume the 
responsibility of facing up to one of the most significant 
ethical and moral challenges of our time: the protection 
of children and young people from the threat posed to 
them by the misuse of cyberspace.
For that reason, we support the initiative promoted 
by the International Telecommunications Union in that 
respect. I also invite all States represented here to share 
their experiences in order to establish and harmonize, on 
the  basis  of  international  telecommunications  criteria, 
norms  that  will  allow  us  to  ensure  that  minors  are  no 
longer  exposed  to  the  risks  and  dangers  disseminated 
through  cyberspace.  That  should 
in  no  way  be 
interpreted as a means of limiting or distorting freedom 
of expression or the universal use of the Internet, which 
we defend firmly and with great conviction.
Panama  is  preparing  draft  legislation  in  order 
to  establish  minimum  regulations  geared  towards 
protecting  our  children  and  adolescents  from  the 
dangerous  content  spread  through  the  Internet  and 
other  electronic  media.  We  are  currently  working 
to  pass  that  legislation  based  on  consensus  with  all 
of  Panamanian  society.  We  must  become  allies  and 
close  ranks  against  Internet  sites  that  promote  child 
pornography and pornography in general, obscene and 
lascivious conduct, and physical, sexual and emotional 
violence.
Let  us  combine  efforts  and  take  concerted  action 
against  sites  that  facilitate  the  making  of  weapons  or 
explosives, that incite illegal drug use, and that promote 
racism, xenophobia or any other type of discrimination 
that runs contrary to human dignity.
Let  us  take  measures  against  those  who  dedicate 
themselves to making public, using and disseminating 
minors’ personal information and to making threats of 
all kinds against our boys, girls and adolescents. Let us 
harness  information  and  communications  technology 
for  the  benefit  of  development  and  to  ensure  a  better 
quality of life for our children, and let us not allow the 
benefits of accessing the Internet to put them at risk.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Panama 
supports  the  international  community  and  the  United 
18 
12-52035
Nations  through  two  large-scale  projects.  The  first  is 
the United Nations Regional Centre for Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  in  Panama,  which  will  host  the  16 
United Nations subregional offices already established 
in  our  country.  That  Centre  will  contribute  to  greater 
coordination  and  synergy  within  the  United  Nations 
system, thereby contributing to its operational process, 
as  outlined  in  the  report  of  the  High-level  Pannel  on 
United Nations System-wide Coherence, “Delivering as 
One” (see A/61/583). We invite friendly nations who are 
committed to those reforms to financially contribute to 
that  project,  which  will  soon  be  open  to  international 
bidding. The other project is the regional humanitarian 
assistance  logistics  centre  for  the  Americas  for  the 
delivery of humanitarian aid in the event of disasters in 
the region. Panama is committed to being a responsible 
humanitarian  actor  in  the  region,  and  we  place  our 
advantages as an international logistical platform at the 
disposal of the international community.
Panama’s  economic  growth  is  widely  recognized 
throughout  our  region.  From  2012  to  2013,  Panama 
moved up nine places — from 49 to 40 — in the Global 
Competitiveness  Index,  which  represents  our  biggest 
jump  in  that  ranking  since  2005,  when  our  country 
began to be monitored by the World Economic Forum. 
Such an increase indicates we are doing things well.
Panama’s  economic  growth  is  the  greatest  in 
Latin  America.  It  is  based  on  free  market  principles, 
is  respectful  of  the  environment,  social  standards  and 
free  enterprise  initiatives,  and  is  strongly  committed 
to social inclusion. That has made it possible for us to 
significantly  reduce  unemployment  in  our  country  to 
4.6  per  cent  and  to  reduce  poverty,  including  extreme 
poverty, from 33.4 per cent to 25.8 in just three years, 
without  compromising  the  riches  of  our  environment. 
At  the  same  time,  our  economic  growth  allows  us  to 
allocate  resources  to  confront  the  threats  of  climate 
change,  which  is  affecting  and  will  continue  to  affect 
large  and  small  nations  without  regard  for  their  level 
of development. We all need to be more responsible in 
that regard.
to  advocate 
for 
Panama  will  continue 
the 
international community to work on an institutional and 
multilateral structure that would reinforce the rights of 
all people to a planet with an environment suitable for 
the  development  of  a  healthful  and  peaceful  life.  We 
will  insist  on  a  new  high-level  discussion  forum  on 
the protection of the environment in the context of the 
General Assembly.
A/67/PV.7
Mr. Kanda (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Finally,  Panama  reaffirms  that  it  is  a  country  that 
favours  peaceful  and  respectful  coexistence  among 
all  the  peoples  and  Governments  of  the  world.  We 
Panamanians  believe  that  humankind  will  always  be 
capable  of  fighting  for  that  cause,  united  by  the  hope 
that  we  can  all  build  a  better  tomorrow.  There  is  still 
time to share, as brothers, in the feast of existence on a 
peaceful planet that truly belongs to all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Panama for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ricardo  Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin 
Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the King of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan.
His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, Head 
of State of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, 
King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
King  Abdullah:  It  is  an  honour  to  join  this 
eminent gathering. Allow me to extend Jordan’s sincere 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić.  I 
would  like  to  assure  him  of  Jordan’s  full  cooperation. 
May  I  also  express  to  the  Secretary-General  Jordan’s 
appreciation for his untiring efforts. I welcome his voice 
and the voices of world leaders of many religions who 
stand  with  billions  of  Muslims  worldwide  in  rejecting 
provocations meant to divide those of different faiths.
Islam  teaches  us  to  honour  all  human  beings, 
promote tolerance and show mercy. As a Hashemite and 
a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad — peace and 
blessings upon him — I condemn all acts that vilify the 
name of the Prophet or falsely use his name or the name 
of Islam — or any other religion, for that matter — to 
justify violence and evil acts such as we have recently 
12-52035
19
A/67/PV.7
witnessed.  There  are  no  sidelines  on  this  issue.  All 
of  us  of  every  faith  everywhere  must  be  proactive  in 
promoting  understanding  and  a  much  stronger  global 
dialogue.
“To unite our strength” — these four words in the 
United Nations Charter are not just an old dream, they 
are  a  modern  urgency.  The  United  Nations  and  the 
General  Assembly  —  empowered  and  strong  —  are 
needed today as never before.
In  my  region,  we  have  important  tasks  ahead. 
We  must  provide  new  and  better  opportunities  for 
our  people,  especially  our  youth,  to  avert  the  dangers 
of  regional  instability  and  conflict  and  to  fulfil  the 
universal desire — the basic human right — to live in 
freedom,  dignity,  justice  and  peace.  The  international 
community has a crucial interest in supporting countries 
that are taking risks for peace and reform.
In Jordan we have charted our course guided by our 
heritage, by our mutual respect and by moderation. Our 
Arab Spring journey is one of opportunity to accelerate 
home-grown  reforms  and  achieve  national  goals.  Last 
year I stood before the Assembly and spoke about the 
reforms  that  were  on  the  horizon  (see  A/66/PV.11). 
Since  then,  new  and  comprehensive  constitutional 
amendments,  as  well  as  new  laws,  have  created  a 
matrix of institutions and principles to support our path 
of reform and democratization. And with the new year, 
we  will  have  our  new  Parliament,  and  our  Jordanian 
Summer will begin.
I would like to address the tragic situation in Syria.
Violence  must  end  immediately,  and  a  transition 
must  begin  now.  There  is  no  alternative  to  a  political 
solution  that  will  end  the  bloodshed,  restore  security 
and  stability  and  preserve  the  territorial  integrity  of 
Syria and the dignity and unity of its people.
The  United  Nations  has  an  important  part  to  play 
in helping people commit to a political solution. Jordan 
will do all in its power to support the newly appointed 
Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United  Nations 
and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar 
Brahimi.
The  peoples  of  Jordan  and  Syria  have  long  and 
deep ties. Since the current crisis erupted, over 200,000 
Syrians  have  sought  refuge  in  Jordan,  putting  heavy 
pressure  on  our  limited  resources  and  our  economy. 
Yet  we,  as  Jordanians,  have  opened  our  arms,  as  we 
have many times in the past for others in need. As we 
continue  to  shoulder  that  responsibility,  international 
support  is  essential.  We  are  very  grateful  for  the 
generous  response  of  Governments, 
international 
bodies  and  dedicated  United  Nations  agencies.  The 
somber reality is, however, that more will be needed, as 
the camps grow more crowded with vulnerable families 
and  the  cold  desert  winter  approaches.  I  call  upon  the 
countries  of  the  United  Nations  to  work  together  to 
prevent a humanitarian disaster.
While we deal with those challenges, we must never 
lose our focus on the crisis at the heart of the region. For 
almost  65  years,  the  Palestinian  people  have  been  the 
exception to the United Nations promise. We pledge the 
shelter  of  international  law  and  human  rights,  except 
not  yet;  the  dignity  of  living  in  freedom  and  security, 
except  not  yet;  the  right  to  self-determination,  except 
not yet. It is time to say, “Enough!”
As the Arab Spring demanded dignity for all, so it 
demanded  the  end  of  exceptionalism.  No  single  issue 
causes  greater  anger  than  to  tell  an  entire  people  that 
when  it  comes  to  global  justice  they  do  not  count. 
The  Arab  Summer  cannot  bear  its  full  fruit  until  the 
Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  ends,  and  ends  with  a  just 
peace and a Palestinian State living side by side with a 
secure Israel at peace with the entire region.
Earlier  this  year,  in  Amman,  we  succeeded  in 
getting both sides back to the table for exploratory talks. 
Then positive traction stopped again. Illegal settlement-
building  and  unilateral  actions  have  continued, 
constituting  direct  threats  to  a  negotiated  peace.  We 
are  extremely  concerned  by  threats  to  Jerusalem  and 
the sanctity of its Muslim and Christian holy sites. The 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque  compound  of  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif 
in  East  Jerusalem  is  under  Hashemite  custodianship, 
a  special  role  recognized  by  the  1994  Jordan-Israel 
Treaty of Peace and protected as occupied territory by 
international law. It is Islam’s third holiest site and its 
importance  to  1.7  billion  Muslims,  one  quarter  of  the 
world’s population, is similar to the importance of the 
Ka’ba itself.
Let me be absolutely clear, any invasion or division 
of the site of Al-Masjid Al-Aqsa would be viewed not 
only as a breach of Israel’s obligations but as a profound 
religious  transgression.  The  international  community 
must  send  a  clear  message  that  such  a  transgression, 
or any attempt to erase the Arab, Muslim or Christian 
identity  of  Jerusalem,  will  not  be  tolerated.  What  is 
needed  now  is  the  full  weight  of  our  nations,  united. 
20 
12-52035
Neither the parties nor the world can afford continued 
hostility  and  insecurity.  There  may  be  a  rare  window 
of  opportunity  later  this  year,  after  the  United  States 
elections, to achieve what both sides so urgently need, 
namely, two States at peace, Palestine and Israel, both 
secure, both free to look forward on the basis of a just, 
comprehensive  and  final  settlement.  That  has  always 
been and will remain a foremost priority for Jordan.
Let  me  say  now,  as  I  have  said  before,  that  the 
Arab  world  seeks  peace.  We  mean  by  that  real  peace: 
diplomatic  relations,  economic  relations,  trade  and 
investment.  We  mean  by  that  a  new  normality,  in 
peace,  where  people  are  safe  in  their  homes,  where 
communities  are  able  to  build  and  where  cooperation 
helps  the  entire  region  prosper.  All  this  has  been  on 
offer  for  over  10  years,  since  2002,  under  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative,  through  which  57  Arab  and  Muslim 
countries reached out collectively to Israel. It is time for 
Israel to turn around, look to the future we must share 
and make a just and lasting peace with the Palestinians.
Almost 70 years ago, countries from every continent 
chose  to  come  together  in  hopes  of  a  world  united  in 
peace  and  respectful  of  all  humankind.  After  a bitter, 
destructive global war, the United Nations was the right 
step,  the  brave  step.  Today,  almost  three  generations 
later, we have learned that it is not enough to make the 
right choices. We must also pursue effective action. Not 
only as nations but as nations united, we must take the 
right steps, the brave steps, now.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the  King  of  the  Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has just made.
King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein,  King  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now hear an address by the President of Hungary.
Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  János  Áder,  President  of 
Hungary, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
A/67/PV.7
President Áder (spoke in Hungarian; English text 
provided by the delegation): The rule of law is among the 
topics  before  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  This  is  an  especially  important  issue, 
especially for someone who has had the opportunity to 
personally experience the lack of it. For many decades, 
Hungary  belonged  to  the  Communist-Socialist  bloc. 
By  1949  the  Communist  takeover  of  power  had  been 
completed, just four years after the end of the Second 
World War. The multiparty system had been eliminated. 
The majority of leaders of political parties established 
after the war were forced into exile or were imprisoned.
I was born 10 years later. I spent my early adult years, 
and  thus  the  years  of  my  political  awakening  as  well, 
in  a  dictatorship.  In  fact,  my  two  older  children  were 
born  under  that  political  system.  For  our  generation, 
just as for that of our parents, our everyday experience 
was  of  being  deprived  of  human  rights  and  liberties. 
Independence?  From  what,  when  Soviet  troops  kept 
Hungary under occupation? Free elections? How, when 
political parties were non-existent and, even at late as 
1988, it was a crime against the State to form political 
organizations.
Constitutional  freedoms,  such  as  the  freedom  of 
speech, the right of assembly and the right to practice 
religion  freely,  existed  only  on  paper  or  not  even  on 
that. The end of the 1980s and the fall of the Berlin Wall 
and of the Iron Curtain, brought democratic changes to 
Hungary as well. It was in the spring of 1990, more than 
40  years  later,  that  we  could  organize  free  elections 
again.  Preparations  for  the  peaceful  transition,  and 
then  the  post-election  years,  can  be  deemed  to  be  a 
successful  period  from  the  perspective  of  the  rule  of 
law.
Hungary, however, did not have a new, consolidated 
Constitution that was not unlike the 1949 Constitution, 
easily  revealed  through  the  number  in  its  title.  It  was 
that  shortfall  that  the  Hungarian  National  Assembly 
rectified in April 2011, when it decided to adopt the new 
fundamental law of Hungary. What is now the youngest 
Constitution of Europe incorporates almost all elements 
of  the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights,  along 
with  the  rule-of-law  institutions  safeguarding  the 
checks  and  balances  established  in  1990.  As  a  new 
element,  constitutional  constraints  compliant  with  the 
rule  of  law  have  been  imposed  to  curb  irresponsible 
public  spending  and  the  reckless  increase  of  State 
indebtedness.
12-52035
21
A/67/PV.7
The  new  Constitution  of  Hungary  provides 
guarantees  for  the  fulfilment  of  international  legal 
obligations  and  for  compliance  and  adherence  to  the 
generally  accepted  rules  of  international  law.  It  is 
important  to  point  out  that  numerous  new  provisions, 
which concern the new, so-called fourth generation of 
basic rights, have been included in the new fundamental 
law.
the  Second  World  War  also  has  had  seriously  adverse 
implications  on  the  environment.  Industry  nowadays 
has  been  using  about  12,000  different  types  of  toxic 
chemicals, while a single drop of crude oil can render 
25 litres of drinking water non-potable. Manufacturing 
a  single  vehicle  requires  148,000  1itres  of  industrial 
water.  The  toilet  culture  of  nearly  2  billion  people  is 
still not adequate today.
Article P of the Constitution stipulates that:
forests  and  drinking  water 
“All  natural  resources,  especially  agricultural 
land, 
supplies, 
biodiversity — in particular native plant and animal 
species  —  and  cultural  assets  shall  form  part  of 
the  nation’s  common  heritage,  and  the  State  and 
every person shall be obliged to protect, sustain and 
preserve them for future generations”.
Whereas Article XXI sets forth that:
“Hungary shall recognise and enforce the right 
of every person to a healthy environment. A person 
who causes any damage to the environment shall be 
obliged to restore it or to bear all costs of restoration 
as defined by law.
“No  pollutant  waste  shall  be  brought  into 
Hungary for the purpose of dumping”.
Environmental  protection, 
the  preservation  of 
natural  values,  the  protection  of  soil,  air  and  water 
quality — how much time have we spent talking about 
them recently? Due to the limited time alloted, permit 
me to highlight only a single issue from the larger set 
of  problems  before  us,  namely,  the  issue  of  water  and 
sanitation. It is even more important to mention it here 
because, as a result of our common decision, nex year 
has been designated as the International Year of Water 
Cooperation.
We  can  truly  appreciate  the  adequate  quantity 
and  quality  of  water  if  we  experience  what  it  means 
to be deprived of it, whatever the reason — pollution, 
overconsumption  or  environmental,  changes.  During 
recent  years,  a  great  variety  of  studies  have  been 
published  about  our  irresponsible  behaviour,  about 
the short-sighted, and may I say, foolish, attitude with 
which  we  are  polluting  our  waters.  Allow  me  to  cite 
just  a  few  findings  from  these  documents.  Ninety  per 
cent  of  all  communal  wastewater  and  70  per  cent  of 
industrial  wastewater  in  countries  of  the  developing 
world  is  discharged  into  rivers  without  any  treatment 
whatsoever. The chemical revolution of the era following 
What  are  the  consequences?  Polluted  and  toxic 
lakes,  lifeless  streams  of  water  reminiscent  of  rivers 
only  by  their  names.  Instead,  they  are  stinking 
industrial  canals.  The  consequences  are  that  there  is 
not enough water around to meet the everyday needs of 
human consumption. Today, more than 1 billion people 
do  not  have  access  to  clean,  potable  water.  Another 
consequence,  according  to  a  2009  UNICEF  study,  is 
that serious diseases, spread by polluted water and the 
lack  sanitation,  have  been  killing  young  children  at  a 
pace equivalent to that of a Boeing 747 airplane packed 
with young children crashing every four hours.
I  could  continue  to  list  dramatic  examples  and 
serious  consequences  of  the  lack  of  sanitation,  but  let 
us  ask  ourselves  the  question:  if  everything  were  all 
right with wastewater management, would it mean that 
everything was also all right with respect to our water 
management,  water  treatment  and  protection  of  our 
water basins? Unfortunately, the answer is no.
Water  management  today  requires  international 
cooperation.  It  is  indispensable.  Half  of  the  Earth’s 
population  lives  in  so-called  shared,  or  joint,  water 
catchment  areas.  The  same  river  provides  the  water 
supplies for two, three or more countries. Cooperation 
between  such  countries  is  a  daily  obligation.  Absence 
of such cooperation could lead to supply, social, health 
or even war-related tensions. Nearly 1.5 billion people 
live in river basins, where water usage is larger than the 
minimum extent of water replenishment, which leads to 
the exhaustion of water reserves.
At  least  two  thirds  of  European  cities  with  a 
population  of  100,000  or  more  people  are  using  their 
water resources faster than they can be replenished. It 
is  true  that  the  standards  are  set  high  in  agriculture, 
especially if the agricultural sector wishes to produce 
adequate  supplies  of  food  for  a  further  2.5  billion 
people by 2050. That is especially true if we consider 
that  currently  it  takes  about  140  1itres  of  water  to 
produce one cupful of coffee or about 15,000 1itres for 
1 kilogram of beef.
22 
12-52035
We have been aware of these figures for years. But 
what is knowledge worth if we do not put it to use? Why 
do we wait for nature to remind us again and again of 
our grave irresponsibility? Hungary assesses the issue 
of water and sanitation to be one of the most important 
questions  of  the  twenty-first  century.  During  recent 
years, we have been active participants in the friends of 
water working group, created under the auspices of the 
United Nations. I think we will have ample work waiting 
for  us  during  the  coming  years  as  well.  We  are  ready 
and  willing  to  share  our  knowledge  and  experience. 
We  are  also  looking  forward  to  welcoming  everyone 
interested to the conference on water and sanitation to 
be organized in Budapest next autumn.
The  President:  On  behalf,  of 
the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Hungary for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. János Áder, President of Hungary, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan.
Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Zardari:  Before  I  begin  my  statement, 
I  want  to  express  the  strongest  condemnation  of  the 
recent acts of incitement to hatred perpetrated against 
the  faith  of  the  billions  of  Muslims  around  the  world 
and  our  beloved  Prophet  Muhammad,  peace  be  upon 
him.  Although  we  can  never  condone  violence,  the 
international  community  must  not  remain  a  silent 
observer and should criminalize such acts, which destroy 
the peace of the world and endanger global security by 
abusing  the  freedom  of  expression.  Pakistan  asks  that 
the United Nations immediately address this matter of 
great alarm and concern and bridge the widening rift in 
order to enable the comity of nations to be one again.
A/67/PV.7
I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  on 
his  election  to  his  important  post  and  to  convey  our 
appreciation to the previous President, His Excellency 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  from  the  brotherly 
state  of  Qatar,  who  carried  out  his  work  with  skill.  I 
would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the 
laudable work of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. We 
greatly  appreciate  his  leadership  in  guiding  the  work 
of  the  Organization.  It  is  a  special  privilege  to  be  at 
the General Assembly today, representing the brave and 
courageous people of Pakistan.
Globally,  we  face  enormous  challenges.  But  with 
collective efforts and commitment we can provide our 
people with a better future. We must work to end poverty. 
We must work to protect the planet and mitigate climate 
change.  We  must  ensure  that  all  people  have  equal 
rights,  and  we  must  protect  the  weak  and  vulnerable. 
We  must  pursue  justice  and  fairness  for  all.  We  must 
pursue the peaceful settlement of international disputes. 
We must save our current and future generations from 
the horrors of war. I think of my own children and the 
generations of unborn children yet to come. They, and 
all  the  children  of  the  world,  deserve  safety,  stability 
and  security.  Those  goals  have  guided  me  throughout 
my four years in office as President of Pakistan. They 
are the goals and principles about which I want to talk 
today.
Pakistan’s  engagement  with  the  United  Nations 
lies at the heart of those goals. We are proud of going 
above  and  beyond  the  call  of  duty  in  fulfilling  our 
international responsibilities. Pakistan has consistently 
been among the top United Nations peacekeeping troop 
contributors for many years. Today, more than 10,000 
Pakistani  troops  proudly  wear  the  Blue  Helmet  of  the 
United Nations in the service of our brothers and sisters 
around the world.
Our  election  to  the  Security  Council  reflects 
our  commitment  to  world  peace.  It  is  also  a  vote  of 
confidence in Pakistan on the part of the international 
community.The United Nations represents our common 
aspirations  for  peace  and  development.  However,  it 
needs reform. The United Nations system must become 
more  democratic  and  accountable,  and  reform  should 
be based on consensus and democratic principles.
In  the  last  several  years,  Pakistan  has  repeatedly 
suffered  natural  calamities.  The  people  of  Pakistan 
appreciate  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community in that connection.
12-52035
23
A/67/PV.7
Being  a  democratic  country,  we  believe  that 
the  legitimate  aspirations  of  any  people  should  be 
accommodated  peacefully  and  in  a  manner  consistent 
with  the  sovereignty,  unity  and  territorial  integrity  of 
States. We support the rights of the Palestinian people 
and  an  independent  Palestinian  State.  We  also  favour 
the  admission  of  Palestine  to  full  membership  of  the 
United Nations.
There  are  many  questions  that  are  asked  of 
Pakistan these days. I am not here to answer questions 
about  Pakistan.  The  people  of  Pakistan  have  already 
answered  them.  The  politicians  of  Pakistan  have 
answered them. The soldiers of Pakistan have answered 
them. We have lost more than 7,000 Pakistani soldiers 
and  policemen,  and  more  than  37,000  civilians.  We 
have  lost  our  Minister  for  Minority  Affairs,  Shahbaz 
Bhatti,  and  my  friend  Salmaan  Taseer,  Governor  of 
Punjab,  our  most  populous  province,  to  the  actions 
of extremists. And I need not remind my friends here 
today that I bear a personal scar. On 27 December 2007, 
knowing that her life was under threat from the mindset 
that she had warned the world against, Pakistan’s first 
elected female leader, and my wife, Shaheed Mohtarma 
Benazir Bhutto, was martyred by the bullets and bombs 
of terrorists. Terrorism and extremism have destroyed 
human  lives,  torn  the  social  fabric  and  devastated  the 
economy. Our economy, our lives and our ability to live 
in the shadow of our Sufi saints and our freedom-loving 
forefathers have been challenged.
We have responded. Our soldiers have responded. 
So  I  am  not  here  to  answer  questions  about  Pakistan. 
I  am  here  to  ask  some  questions  on  behalf  of  the 
Pakistani  people:  on  behalf  of  the  two-year-old  baby 
who  was  killed  in  the  bombing  at  Lahore’s  Moon 
Market  on  7  December  2009;  on  behalf  of  Pervaiz 
Masih,  a  Christian  Pakistani  who  was  killed  with  six 
others while trying to protect Muslim Pakistanis during 
a  bomb  attack  on  Islamic  University  in  Islamabad  on 
20  October  2009;  on  behalf  of  Commandant  Siffat 
Gha-yoor  of  the  Frontier  Constabulary  police  force  in 
Peshawar, who was martyred by militants on 4 August 
2010;  on  behalf  of  the  traders  and  businessmen  in 
Peshawar,  Quetta,  Lahore  and  Karachi  and  in  the 
dozens  of  marketplaces  that  have  been  ravaged  by 
multiple bombings, over and over and over again; and, 
perhaps  most  of  all,  on  behalf  of  my  three  children, 
whose mother, Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, was 
also martyred by terrorists.
For more than 30 years, our doors have been open 
to our Afghan brothers and sisters.
For many years, we were left to fend for ourselves 
and our Afghan guests.
I remember the red carpet that was rolled out for all 
the dictators in our country — dictators who promised 
the international community the moon — while Pakistan 
was kept in the dark. Those dictators and their regimes 
are responsible for suffocating and throttling Pakistan, 
Pakistan’s  institutions  and  Pakistan’s  democracy.  I 
remember  the  judicial  execution  of  Pakistan’s  first 
elected leader, Shaheed Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. I remember 
the jailing of Pakistan’s elected leaders.
I  remember  the  12  years  that  I  myself  spent  in 
prison,  and  I  remember  the  billions  provided  by  the 
international community to support those dictatorships. 
My country’s social fabric and its very character have 
been  altered.  Our  condition  today  is  a  product  of 
dictatorship.
No country and no people has suffered more in the 
epic  struggle  against  terrorism  than  Pakistan.  Drone 
strikes and civilian casualties on our territory add to the 
complexity of our battle for hearts and minds through 
this  epic  struggle.  To  those  who  say  that  we  have  not 
done enough, I say in all humility: please do not insult 
the memory of our dead and the pain of our living. Do 
not ask of my people what no one has ever asked of any 
other people. Do not demonize the innocent women and 
children of Pakistan, and please, stop this refrain to do 
more. The simplest question of all is: how much more 
suffering can Pakistan endure?
I am sure that the international community does not 
want  any  suffering  anywhere,  least  of  all  in  Pakistan. 
We believe, in fact, that the international community is 
a partner. That is because it is in the common interest 
of all nations to work together.
In  Pakistan,  I  have  helped  bring  about  a  major 
strategic shift in how we view working together. Within 
Pakistan,  our  democracy  has  brought  about  major 
changes.  God  willing,  this  will  be  the  first  civilian 
Government in Pakistan’s 66-year history to complete 
its full five-year term.
In that time, Parliament has passed unprecedented 
the  consensus  1973 
reforms.  We  have  restored 
Constitution.
24 
12-52035
The  National  Assembly  has  enacted  wide-ranging 
social  reforms.  We  have  established  a  National 
Commission  on  Women  and  a  National  Commission 
on  Human  Rights.  We  have  established,  for  the  first 
time,  a  truly  independent  election  commission,  to 
ensure  free,  fair  and  transparent  elections.  Our  media 
is  free,  uncensored  and  thriving.  Our  civil  society  is 
flourishing under the protection of democracy. We have 
created the first social safety net, through the women of 
Pakistan, for the weak and less privileged. Millions of 
families have benefitted. We have aided the poor and at 
the same time empowered the women of our households. 
That  safety  net  is  called  the  Benazir  Income  Support 
Programme. These are the gifts of democracy. This is 
the dream of Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto.
The  growing  regional  pivot  in  Pakistan’s  foreign 
policy is a symbol of our democratic policy-making. In 
engaging with our region, we are changing the future. 
In  China,  our  strategic  partnership  is  growing  from 
strength to strength. In Afghanistan, we have begun to 
engage and deepen our friendship with the entire range 
of the Afghan political spectrum.
We  believe  that  a  sovereign,  stable  and  secure 
Afghanistan  is  good  for  the  Afghan  people,  and  what 
is  good  for  the  Afghan  people  is  good  for  Pakistan. 
While  our  hearts  and  homes  remain  open  to  our 
Afghan brothers, it is imperative that the international 
community  support  the  3  million  Afghan  refugees  in 
Pakistan in their quest to return home with dignity. A 
brighter Afghan future will be possible only when the 
quest  for  peace  is  Afghan-owned,  Afghan-driven  and 
Afghan-led.
We  respect  and  support 
the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  for  reconciliation  and 
peace. Pakistan will support in every way possible any 
process that reflects Afghan national consensus.
the  efforts  of 
Similarly,  we  approach  our  relations  with  India 
on  the  basis  of  mutual  trust.  The  contacts  between 
our  leadership  are  expanding.  I  was  encouraged  by 
my  discussions  last  month  in  Tehran  with  the  Prime 
Minister  of  India,  whom  I  met  with  for  the  fifth  time 
in four years.
Our  principled  position  on  territorial  disputes 
remains  the  bedrock  of  our  foreign  policy.  We  will 
continue to support the rights of the people of Jammu 
and  Kashmir  to  peacefully  choose  their  destiny  in 
accordance  with  the  Security  Council’s  long-standing 
resolutions  on  this  matter.  Kashmir  remains  a  symbol 
A/67/PV.7
of the failures, rather than the strengths, of the United 
Nations system. We feel that a resolution of these issues 
can be arrived at only in an environment of cooperation.
By  normalizing  trade  relations,  we  want  to  create 
a regional South Asian narrative. Such a narrative will 
provide an environment that will mutually benefit the 
countries of our region.
Along  this  road,  there  are  pitfalls.  One  of  them 
is  the  tendency  to  respond  to  failure  through  blame. 
Pakistan  does  not  blame  others  for  the  challenges  it 
faces.  We  believe  that  we  should  look  for  a  win-win 
solution.  Regional  cooperation  and  connectivity  will 
bring  us  closer  and  bind  us  together.  It  will  make  us 
stakeholders in one another’s futures. Our hosting of a 
quadrilateral summit next month and our signing of the 
Afghan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement are proof of 
that commitment to regional connectivity.
In Pakistan, the lesson we learned from the last 30 
years is that history cannot be changed, but the future 
can  —  to  a  future  that  is  brighter,  more  prosperous 
and more secure, not only for Pakistanis but for all the 
peoples of the region, and, indeed, the world.
I  must  thank  the  member  States  of  the  European 
Union  (EU)  for  recognizing  the  value  of  trade  to 
Pakistan.  We  seek  trade,  rather  than  aid.  By  granting 
trade  concessions  to  Pakistan,  the  EU  has  sent  a 
positive message. Those concessions will help us revive 
the economy and fight terrorism.
As  we  embark  on  this  ambitious  transformative 
experience,  we  are  aware  that  there  are  threats  and 
pitfalls.  One  of  them  is  the  expanding  illegal  trade  of 
heroin. Despite the presence of international forces in 
Afghanistan, the size of the heroin trade has increased 
by 3,000 per cent in the last decade. The heroin industry 
is eroding the social fabric of our society.
Terrorist  activities  within  our  region  and,  indeed, 
all  over  the  world  are  funded  and  fuelled  by  the 
unrestricted  production  and  sale  of  illegal  drugs. 
Pakistan  has  pursued  an  ambitious  agenda  to  control 
that menace. We are coordinating with our neighbours 
and will hold a conference later this year to develop a 
unified approach to stamping out the drug trade.
My call upon this body, and especially those nations 
represented here that are actively engaged in the region, 
is: here, today, let us begin to work together.
12-52035
25
A/67/PV.7
I  have  committed  my  presidency  and  my  nation’s 
future  to  a  paradigm  shift,  a  permanent  democratic 
future  for  Pakistan.  It  has  not  been  easy,  but  nothing 
worth  fighting  for  is.  We  long  ago  stopped  thinking 
of  doing  what  is  easy.  Instead,  we  have  committed 
ourselves to doing what is right. In that regard, I recall 
the  powerful  words  of  my  beloved  martyred  wife  and 
my  leader,  Shaheed  Mohtarma  Benazir  Bhutto,  when 
she appeared before this body 16 years ago.
other  people,  nations  respect  other  nations,  and 
religions respect other religions.
“That  is  the  third  millennium  I  see  for  my 
country and others”. (A/51/PV.20, p.4) 
We  have  made  some  progress  towards  achieving 
those  goals.  But  so  much  remains  to  be  done.  In  her 
memory  and  in  the  name  of  God  Almighty,  Pakistan 
commits to that path again today.
Her words ring out and guide us into a new future. 
May peace be upon all countries and their people.
She said in 1996,
“I  dream  of  a  third  millennium  in  which  the 
gap  between  rich  and  poor  evaporates;  in  which 
illiteracy,  hunger,  malnutrition  and  disease  are 
at  long  last  conquered;  in  which  every  child  is 
planned,  wanted,  nurtured  and  supported;  and  in 
which the birth of a girl is welcomed with the same 
joy  as  that  of  a  boy.  I  dream  of  a  millennium  of 
tolerance  and  pluralism,  in  which  people  respect 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
26 
12-52035
