United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
41st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 27 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.41
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Agenda item 38
The situation in Afghanistan
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/354)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.16)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the 
introduce  draft 
to 
representative  of  Germany 
resolution A/67/L.16.
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  It  is  an  honour  for  my 
country to introduce this year’s draft resolution on the 
situation in Afghanistan (A/67/L.16).
The  past  year  has  seen  a  number  of  important 
milestone  events  for  Afghanistan  that  have  redefined 
and  reinvigorated  the  long-term  partnership  between 
Afghanistan and its regional and international partners. 
In that context, the draft resolution sends, yet again, a 
positive signal of sustained support to Afghanistan, its 
Government  and  its  people.  We  are  happy  to  see  that 
that  message  is  reinforced  by  the  outstandingly  high 
number  of  delegations  that  have  joined  in  sponsoring 
the  draft  resolution.  Germany,  as  facilitator,  would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  brief ly  highlight  four 
key  messages  of  the  draft  resolution  that  ref lect  those 
developments.
First, the draft resolution is about transition in the 
field of security. We note with satisfaction that transition 
is progressing continuously. The implementation of the 
first three tranches of transition is currently unfolding. 
Mindful of the many challenges in the process, we are 
looking forward to its phased completion in the rest of 
the country. The mid-2013 milestone, when Afghans will 
be living in areas where the Afghan National Security 
Forces (ANSF) have taken lead security responsibility, 
is a particularly encouraging step in that regard.
The focus of the draft resolution is on improving the 
operational capabilities of the Afghan National Security 
Forces.  At  the  Bonn  Conference,  the  international 
community committed itself to supporting the Afghan 
Government  throughout  transition  and  beyond  to  that 
end.  Increasing  emphasis  will  be  put  on  training, 
equipping  and  advising  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces  as  they  gradually  take  over  full  security 
responsibility  throughout  the  country.  With  a  view  to 
the  end  of  transition  at  the  end  of  2014  and  as  part  of 
the wider objective of further empowering and enabling 
Afghan institutions in line with the Kabul process, that 
is where our priority rightly belongs.
At  the  NATO  Summit  held  in  Chicago  earlier 
this  year,  the  priority  to  continue  to  develop  the 
Afghan  National  Security  Forces  so  that  it  is  capable 
of  providing  security  to  all  Afghans  was  reaffirmed. 
NATO  allies  and  International  Security  Assistance 
Force partner countries committed themselves to work 
towards establishing a training, advising and assistance 
mission. They also reaffirmed their commitment to play 
their  part  in  the  financial  sustainability  of  the  ANSF 
in  the  long  term,  with  a  view  to  the  assumption  of 
increasing  financial  responsibility  by  the  Government 
of Afghanistan.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-60766 (E)
*1260766*
A/67/PV.41
A  stable  security  environment  guaranteed  by  the 
Afghan  National  Security  Forces  is  key  to  the  further 
development of Afghanistan. In that context, long-term 
strategic  partnership  agreements  concluded  between 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  its  partners  will 
contribute  to  creating  an  environment  conducive  to 
establishing  lasting  peace,  security  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan and the region.
Secondly,  the  draft  resolution  is  about  a  long-
term  commitment  by  the  international  community 
throughout  the  transformation  decade  declared  by 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  its  international 
partners  at  the  Bonn  Conference.  During  the  past 
decade,  Afghanistan  has  made  notable  progress  in 
many fields of governance and development, including 
health, education and infrastructure. 
Yet challenges remain in many fields. Afghanistan 
and the international community therefore renewed and 
reinvigorated their long-term partnership at the Tokyo 
Conference  in  July.  Building  on  a  unique  framework 
of mutual accountability, the international community 
has  generously  pledged  to  provide  $16  billion  through 
2015 to support the economic and political stabilization 
of  Afghanistan.  Furthermore, 
international 
community will sustain its support at or near levels of 
the past decade through 2017.
the 
In  return,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  has 
committed  itself  to  achieving  its  development  and 
governance  goals,  such  as  conducting  credible, 
inclusive  and  transparent  elections,  fostering  respect 
for the rule of law and protecting and promoting human 
rights, in accordance with the stipulations of the Tokyo 
Mutual Accountability Framework. Afghan ownership 
is  again  the  foundation  for  the  transformation  decade, 
as clearly ref lected in the principles of aid effectiveness 
contained in the Accountability Framework. Today, the 
General  Assembly  will  send  that  renewed  message  of 
solidarity to our Afghan partners.
Thirdly,  the  draft  resolution  is  about  regional 
cooperation. Under the able leadership of Afghanistan 
and with the strong support of regional and international 
partners, the Istanbul Process on Regional Security and 
Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and  Stable  Afghanistan  has 
shown  continued  momentum  since  the  Heart  of  Asia 
Ministerial  Conference  held  in  Kabul  in  June.  A  set 
of  six  confidence-building  measures  will  contribute 
to  fostering  regional  cooperation  to  enhance  political, 
security and economic stability throughout the region.
to 
the  Process  ref lects 
The  Istanbul  Process  is  intended  to  bring  greater 
the  diversity  of  valuable  regional 
coherence 
initiatives.  Furthermore, 
the 
interconnectedness of many challenges in Afghanistan. 
Within that framework, the fight against terrorism and 
against  the  production  and  trafficking  of  illicit  drugs 
is  complemented  by  confidence-building  measures  in 
the  areas  of  education,  infrastructure  and  economic 
development  that  are  aimed  at  reducing  poverty  and 
creating  alternative  sources  of  income  for  the  Afghan 
population.
Fourthly, the draft resolution is about support to the 
peace  and  reconciliation  process.  The  appointment  of 
Salahuddin Rabbani as the Chairman of the High Peace 
Council  has  revitalized  the  peace  and  reconciliation 
process after the heinous assassination of his father and 
predecessor in office. 
For this Afghan-led and Afghan-owned process to 
yield  sustainable  results,  it  needs  to  be  inclusive  and 
must  respect  the  Afghan  Constitution  and  its  human 
rights  provisions,  the  rights  of  women  in  particular, 
as  well  as  the  set  of  principles  outlined  most  recently 
in  the  Bonn  Conference  conclusions.  In  that  context, 
the  draft  resolution  reiterates  appreciation  for  the 
efforts  of  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  on  its  path 
to  advance  the  process  and  reaffirms  the  continued 
support of the international community in that regard. 
Last  year,  by  establishing  the  Committee  pursuant  to 
resolution  1988  (2011),  the  Security  Council  set  up 
an  institutional  framework  conducive  to  fostering  the 
peace  and  reconciliation  process.  The  first  results  are 
encouraging.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude 
to  all  the  delegations  from  all  regions  of  the  world 
that  have  actively  participated  in  this  year’s  informal 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution.  Their  tireless 
efforts  and  sense  of  responsibility  are  the  foundation 
upon  which  the  strong  message  of  the  draft  resolution 
rests. We are therefore happy to suggest that the General 
Assembly once again adopt the draft resolution on the 
situation in Afghanistan by consensus.
I  would  like  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  my 
colleague  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  as  well  as  to 
Counsellor  Youssof  Ghafoorzai  and  their  colleagues, 
for their excellent cooperation, trust and friendship.
Germany  also  wholeheartedly  thanks  the  United 
Nations offices in Afghanistan and New York alike for 
their excellent work for the future of Afghanistan. The 
2 
12-60766
A/67/PV.41
role of the United Nations and its Assistance Mission in 
support of Afghanistan will continue to be pivotal in all 
the key areas I have outlined.
Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan): It is an honour to be here 
today to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Today we 
will adopt a draft resolution (A/67/L.16) that reaffirms 
the  Assembly’s  commitment  to  Afghanistan’s  peace, 
stability and prosperity.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  all  representatives  who  contributed  to 
the draft resolution, especially the German delegation, 
headed by His Excellency Ambassador Peter Wittig, for 
their dedication and leadership throughout the process. 
We extend a special thanks to Daniel Schemske for his 
role in facilitating the negotiations.
In  2001,  following  the  overthrow  of  the  Taliban 
regime,  Afghanistan  was  a  broken  State  with  an 
economy  in  shambles,  a  shattered  infrastructure  and 
a  society  wearied  by  years  of  conf lict.  Virtually  no 
aspect  of  life  in  our  country  had  been  untouched  by 
war. Afghanistan has come a long way since then, and 
yet  we  still  have  far  to  go.  Our  path  to  lasting  peace 
and  sustainable  development  has  not  been  without  its 
challenges. On the way forward, the supporting role of 
the  international  community  will  be  important,  and  it 
will  have  a  considerable  effect  on  how  successful  the 
Afghan Government’s efforts can be.
Afghanistan  is  approaching  the  end  of  a  chapter, 
with  the  conclusion  of  the  existing  framework  of 
international military engagement. All focus is now on 
the  transition  to  Afghan-led  security,  governance  and 
development. 
Transition in Afghanistan did not start in a vacuum. 
It  took  us  11  years  to  reach  this  point.  International 
involvement  began  over  a  decade  ago  and  sought 
to  eliminate  the  threat  posed  by  Al-Qaida  and  its 
regional  terrorist  allies  to  global  and  regional  peace 
and  security.  After  long  years  of  conf lict  and  war,  a 
broad  international  coalition  became  engaged,  with  a 
commitment to see Afghanistan through on its path to 
peace and stability.
However,  it  was  not  only  a  military  effort.  The 
most  important  thing  for  Afghans  was  to  rebuild  an 
effective State. Afghanistan started its journey a decade 
ago  to  regain  a  legitimate  and  peaceful  internal  and 
international  role  in  the  region  and  worldwide.  Since 
2001,  significant  achievements  have  been  made,  from 
the  building  of  schools  and  roads  to  the  advancement 
of  women,  continuing  economic  growth  and  the 
strengthening of our security forces. Today, women are 
playing a vital role across all sectors of Afghan society 
and  are  being  offered  more  economic  opportunities. 
Millions  of  Afghan  boys  and  girls  are  enrolled  in 
schools, and increasing numbers of Afghan people now 
have access to basic health services.
Afghanistan  is  in  a  fundamentally  different  place 
from  where  we  were  in  2001,  a  time  when  the  control 
of  provinces  changed  hands  constantly,  human  rights 
were  routinely  violated,  violence  prevailed  and  the 
central authority had lost its relevance and power under 
the  pressure  of  internal  confrontations.  Eleven  years 
later,  Afghanistan  is  looking  to  the  future  with  hope 
and  is  aiming  to  stand  on  its  feet  and  move  towards 
normalization.
In  April  2014,  Afghanistan  will  hold  its  third 
presidential  elections  to  choose  its  new  leadership, 
and  by  the  end  of  2014  the  last  foreign  combat  forces 
will  have  left  the  country.  With  the  election  and  the 
end  of  the  military  phase  of  international  support, 
a  new  chapter  in  Afghanistan  is  unfolding  that  is 
characterized  by  consolidated  national  sovereignty, 
self-reliance  and  stabilization  of  the  situation.  Those 
simultaneous  developments  represent  the  beginning 
of  a  decade  of  sustainability  that  involves  a  number 
of vital, interconnected elements in both the short and 
long  terms.  Those  include  the  withdrawal  of  tens  of 
thousands of combat forces, the full transfer of security 
responsibility to the Afghan national army and police, a 
new arrangement of the post-2014 international military 
engagement, the organization of free and fair elections, 
reconciliation  aimed  at  ending 
the  violence  and 
bringing  the  armed  opposition  into  the  peace  process, 
and capacity-building for a sustainable and functioning 
State  that  is  able  to  maintain  peace,  stability  and 
democracy in the country for years to come.
The  transition  framework  is  therefore  the  only 
path  to  long-term  stability  in  Afghanistan.  It  puts  the 
Afghan people at the centre of managing the country’s 
security, governance and development. For the success 
of that transition, we need strong long-term support and 
delivery from the international community.
Over  the  past  two  years,  the  transition  process 
has  been  buttressed  by  the  establishment  of  new 
partnerships  with  the  international  community  and 
by  attempts  to  turn  negative  potential  into  positive  by 
seeking new forms of cooperation in our neighbourhood 
the  wider  region.  Afghanistan  has  worked 
and 
12-60766
3
A/67/PV.41
with  international  partners  in  that  period  to  forge 
agreements on strategies to face the evolving situation 
in the country and to address all the necessary elements 
of a successful transition. From Lisbon to Chicago, we 
worked  to  map  out  the  security  transition.  It  is  about 
enabling Afghan forces until and after 2014, sustaining 
logistical  and 
financial  support,  and  providing 
Afghanistan the necessary assistance for forces to work 
under  the  pressure  of  circumstances.  Those  plans  are 
now in motion. The security transition is on track in its 
third tranche, during which 75 per cent of the country 
will  be  under  the  control  of  Afghan  security  forces. 
Afghan forces are ready to take full control, as planned, 
before the withdrawal of international forces in 2014.
We  see 
the  role  of 
the  decision  at 
the  Chicago  NATO 
the 
summit  —  concerning  shifting 
international  military  to  a  training,  advising  and 
assisting  mission  —  as  an  important  indication  of 
enduring  support  for  the  Afghan  people.  Although 
more  details  are  yet  to  be  determined,  it  is  important 
for  Afghanistan  to  have  the  necessary  guarantee 
of  continuing  military  support  as  it  assumes  full 
responsibility for security in the country. 
The  post-2014  international  military  engagement  in 
Afghanistan  is  part  of  the  security  agreement  that  we 
recently began to discuss with the United States in the 
light of our strategic partnership. Based on our national 
interests,  we  would  like  to  see  those  negotiations lead 
us  to  an  agreement  that  ensures  long-term  peace  and 
stability  in  the  country.  The  importance  of  national 
sovereignty  remains  at  the  heart  of  the  Afghan 
perspective  on  any  talks  about  future  engagement 
between Afghanistan and its international partners.
transition 
A  successful 
is  about  successful 
elections. The Government of Afghanistan is committed 
to  organizing  fair,  free  and  democratic  elections  that 
can  generate  renewed  energy  for  consolidating  peace 
and  stability.  We  would  like  to  see  the  international 
community continue to support the upcoming election 
process.  We  are  certain  that  the  election  process  will 
help to bring about more certainty for the Afghan people 
with  regard  to  the  political  transition.  Furthermore, 
broader participation by the Afghan people — including 
women  and  men  from  all  walks  of  life  —  and  the 
engagement  of  civil  society  will  contribute  to  making 
the next elections a new occasion for national consensus 
and unity that ref lects our shared vision for building a 
better future.
The elections should be seen in connection with the 
ongoing  major  effort  to  bring  about  stability  and  end 
violence — the search for a political solution. We have 
witnessed  visible  progress  in  the  peace  process  with 
the Taliban and other armed opposition groups. Serious 
steps are being taken to prepare the ground responsibly 
for  peace  talks  and  a  possible  breakthrough  in  the 
reconciliation process. Let there be no doubt: our peace 
process  will  not  continue  at  the  expense  of  the  hard-
won  progress  of  the  past  decade,  including  on  human 
rights and, in particular, the rights of women. 
It is important to note that there is now consensus 
about  the  necessity  for  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-
owned  peaceful  solution  and  about  the  fact  that  the 
peace  process  is  increasingly  seen  as  a  cross-cutting 
issue required for the success of the transition. We are 
encouraged by the increasing positive thinking among 
a  growing  number  of  the  armed  opposition  actors 
and  by  the  support  of  other  main  actors  for  the  peace 
process. The recent visit of the delegation of the High 
Peace Council to Islamabad and the release of a number 
of Taliban prisoners by the Government of Pakistan are 
important  developments  for  creating  an  atmosphere 
conducive to a political solution.
Mr. Beck (Palau), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  efforts  here  at  the  United  Nations  have  also 
been  essential  steps  towards  building  the  necessary 
trust  and  confidence  in  the  peace  and  reconciliation 
process. We are happy to see the continuing focus of the 
Security  Council  and  the  greater  role  that  the  Afghan 
Government  now  plays  in  the  listing  and  delisting 
efforts of the Security Council Committee established 
pursuant  to  resolution  1988  (2011).  The  Security 
Council’s  commitment  was  clearly  displayed  this 
week  when  the  Chairman  of  the  High  Peace  Council, 
Mr.  Salahuddin  Rabbani,  was  asked  to  brief  that 
Committee  and  the  members  of  the  Security  Council 
on the progress made in the reconciliation process. That 
was an opportunity to illustrate Afghanistan’s intention 
to  have  a  greater  role  with  regard  to  the  Committee’s 
work.
A  successful  transition  will  allay  concerns  about 
the possible vacuum created by the end of the military 
phase. In that connection, what is essential in the long 
term is the economic sustainability of the Afghan State. 
Assisted  by  its  international  partners,  Afghanistan  is 
working  to  ensure  that  the  Afghan  State  can  function 
effectively and that it moves from a primarily aid-based 
4 
12-60766
economy to a self-sustaining one during the transition 
and transformation period. 
At the Tokyo Conference in July, significant steps 
were  taken  towards  addressing  that  issue,  including  a 
clear  expression  of  long-term  financial  commitment 
and  the  presentation  of  a  shared  vision  in  the  form  of 
the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability  Framework,  which 
addresses the need of our Government for core funding 
and the need of our development partners to know that 
the money will be spent well. In Tokyo, the international 
community  committed  to  continued  engagement  in 
Afghanistan, while the Afghan Government committed 
to  being  financially  responsible  and  and  to  focus  on 
good governance.
Ending  corruption  and  ensuring  a  transparent 
and  efficient  Administration  that  enjoys  the  full  trust 
of  the  Afghan  people  remains  a  high  priority.  In  that 
connection, the Afghan Government has redoubled its 
commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance. 
His  Excellency  President  Karzai’s  decree  of  21  July 
represents  a  comprehensive  approach  and  instructs 
all  ministries,  agencies  and  independent  departments 
to  implement  measures  and  reforms  to  eliminate 
corruption and improve transparency.
in 
Global  engagement 
the  past  decade  has 
brought  about  an  unprecedented  level  of  regional  and 
international  interaction  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan 
has  become  a  meeting  place  for  dozens  of  global  and 
regional  Powers  and  organizations.  The  international 
community  has  been  linked  to  the  stabilization  and 
reconstruction  efforts  in  the  country  —  a  fact  that  is 
ref lected  in  the  level  of  troop  contributions,  financial 
support  and  institution-building.  As  we  complete 
the  transition,  the  current  form  of  involvement  will 
be  replaced  a  multitude  of  bilateral  and  multilateral 
cooperation  arrangements  between  the  Afghan  State 
and  its  global  and  regional  partners.  With  that  in 
mind,  we  have  begun  developing  various  mechanisms 
for  bringing  the  greater  region  together  for  political, 
economic and security cooperation. 
At  the  centre  of  that  effort  is  the  Istanbul  Process 
on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure 
and  Stable  Afghanistan.  Over  the  course  of  this  year, 
we  have  seen  the  Istanbul  Process  gain  noteworthy 
momentum  in  its  efforts  to  unite  the  Heart  of  Asia 
countries around the shared goal of peace and prosperity 
in  Afghanistan,  the  region  and  beyond.  The  Istanbul 
Process  is  turning  into  a  central  forum  for  regional 
cooperation  that  will  enhance  and  bring  coherence  to 
A/67/PV.41
regional  initiatives  through  the  confidence-building 
measures  and  various  mechanisms  for  cooperation 
to  which  we  have  committed.  With  effective  regional 
cooperation, Afghanistan is reclaiming its historic role 
in the region, with the potential to serve as a trade and 
transport hub and a catalyst for broader collaboration.
Afghanistan’s  future  is  about  sustainability.  It  is 
about consolidating our successes and not losing what 
we have worked to achieve over the past decade. For the 
remainder of the transition, we must not fall behind in 
our efforts for even a moment. The next two years are 
vital  for  the  country.  The  Government  of  Afghanistan 
is  committed  to  working  each  day  to  help  the  Afghan 
people by developing infrastructure, protecting human 
rights,  enhancing  good  governance  and  improving  the 
delivery of services, as outlined in the draft resolution 
we are considering here today (A/67/L.16).
irresponsible,  vicious  attacks  on 
However, the continuation of a violent campaign by 
the enemies of peace, stability and prosperity remains 
the  greatest  challenge 
to  Afghanistan’s  progress. 
The 
innocent 
Afghans  —  women  and  men  —  by  the  Taliban  and 
other extremist armed groups are aiming to undermine 
our hard-earned achievements. But the Afghan people 
will not be deterred from their struggle to bring peace 
and  security  to  the  country  and  to  eliminate  sources 
of  destabilization.  It  is  important  that  this  struggle  be 
supported by all who want to see an end to terrorism and 
extremism. That is why close cooperation in the region, 
including  with  Pakistan,  is  essential.  As  President 
Karzai emphasized in his letter to Pakistani leaders on 
13  October,  there  is  a  need  for  both  countries  to  take 
coordinated,  collaborative  and  serious  action  with 
strong determination against terrorism and extremism.
The  Past  decade  in  Afghanistan  has  seen  historic 
strides. There are some who talk about a coming disaster 
as the international forces leave. We do not subscribe to 
such  negative  interpretations,  but  of  course  the  future 
of  Afghanistan  hangs  on  many  “ifs”.  We  are  realistic 
in  recognizing  the  variables  in  the  coming  years,  but 
it  is  our  responsibility,  together  with  the  international 
community, to reduce uncertainties. We do not see the 
transition  as  a  cliff  that  could  be  fallen  off  with  just 
one false step. The transition is more than an idea. It is 
a  concrete  concept  with  real  resources  and  deliberate 
plans — plans that can shape realities. Afghanistan looks 
forward  to  working  with  the  international  community 
in  the  coming  years  to  achieve  the  noble  objective  of 
12-60766
5
A/67/PV.41
bringing  lasting  peace,  stability  and  prosperity  to  the 
country.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union. 
Mr.  Vrailas  (European  Union):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
acceding  country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Iceland and Serbia; the countries of the Stabilization and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and Bosnia and Herzegovina; the European Free Trade 
Association country Norway, member of the European 
Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Armenia and Georgia, align themselves with 
this statement.
Like  others,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/67/354)  and  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan  for  his  statement.  I 
also  thank  all  delegations  that  participated  in  the 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  (A/67/L.16), 
introduced today by the representative of Germany. We 
look forward to its adoption once again by consensus.
The  international  conferences  held  in  Bonn  last 
year  and  in  Kabul  and  Tokyo  earlier  this  year,  as 
well  as  the  summit  in  Chicago,  have  reaffirmed  the 
partnership  between  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
and  the  international  community  for  Afghanistan’s 
long-term security, economic growth and development. 
Those  conferences  have  set  out  the  way  forward  for 
Afghanistan  to  progressively  assume  responsibility 
for  all  aspects  of  policy  and  to  achieve  its  security, 
development and governance goals.
In  the  EU  statement  at  the  Security  Council 
debate  on  Afghanistan  in  September  (see  S/PV.6840), 
we  brief ly  highlighted  the  important  outcome  of  the 
Tokyo Conference, in particular the principle of mutual 
accountability  encapsulated  in  the  Tokyo  Mutual 
Accountability Framework, and addressed the strategic 
issue  of  regional  cooperation.  The  implementation  of 
the Tokyo Framework remains paramount in achieving 
a successful transition in Afghanistan. 
For this statement, we want to focus on two topics, 
namely,  progress  on  national  reconciliation,  and 
preparations for the upcoming election.
We  welcome  the  recent  visit  of  the  High  Peace 
Council  to  Pakistan,  and  we  call  on  all  regional 
Governments  to  use  their  inf luence  to  encourage  all 
groups to support an Afghan-led peace and reconciliation 
process. Progress will be sustainable only if the process 
is  truly  inclusive,  not  only  engaging  armed  groups 
but  fully  involving  civil  society,  including  balanced 
regional and gender representation from all sections of 
Afghan society. Both the process and its outcome must 
respect  the  Afghan  Constitution,  including  its  human 
rights  provisions,  in  particular  those  on  the  rights  of 
women and girls.
We  also  encourage  particular  attention 
to 
the  progressive  implementation  of  the  law  on  the 
elimination  of  violence  against  women.  In  that  vein, 
we wish to reiterate our firm commitment to Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and  all  subsequent 
resolutions  on  women  and  peace  and  security.  We 
welcome  the  commitment  of  the  Afghan  Government 
to  its  full  implementation  through  the  establishment 
of 
steering  committee  on 
resolution 1325 (2000).
the 
interministerial 
We welcome the announcement of the date for the 
presidential election. It will be critical for Afghanistan’s 
future  that  elections  be  as  inclusive  and  transparent 
as  possible  and  leading  to  an  outcome  that  is  widely 
accepted as legitimate.
We  call  on  the  Afghan  authorities  to  engage 
all  political  parties  and  civil  society  in  agreeing  an 
electoral  reform  process  that  will  put  in  place  a  legal 
framework  for  elections  that  is  consistent  with  the 
Constitution,  has  credible  measures  to  prevent  fraud 
and is overseen by independent bodies. Early decisions 
by  the  relevant  Afghan  authorities  on  the  system  and 
registration  process  to  be  used  for  elections  will  be 
welcome,  both  to  enable  international  support  for  the 
process and to allow for clear communication and voter 
education.
Allow  me  to  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the 
essential role of the United Nations as we move beyond 
transition.  Its  work  will  be  of  key  importance  in 
supporting the preparations for the upcoming elections 
and for monitoring the human rights and humanitarian 
situation  and  making  coordination  bodies  such  as  the 
Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring  Board  work  more 
effectively.
It  is  important  that  the  international  community 
remain strongly committed to progress in Afghanistan. 
That will require sustained support beyond 2014.
The EU commitment to Afghanistan is long-term. 
The  EU  is  currently  providing  more  than  €1  billion 
6 
12-60766
in  development  assistance  to  Afghanistan  annually. 
We  will  continue  to  prioritize  and  enhance  support  to 
Afghanistan in the decade of transformation agreed at 
Bonn. 
The  aim  of  our  overall  strategy  in  Afghanistan 
remains clear, namely, supporting a successful transition 
process  in  Afghanistan,  partnering  with  Afghanistan 
beyond  transition  on  its  path  towards  becoming  fully 
self-reliant,  and  building  a  more  peaceful,  democratic 
and prosperous society for the benefit of all Afghans.
Mr.  Kydyrov  (Kyrgyzstan):  It  gives  me  great 
pleasure  to  speak  today  as  a  Chair  of  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  on  behalf  of  the 
People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Kazakhstan, 
the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and 
my own country, the Kyrgyz Republic.
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  affects  global  and 
regional  peace  and  stability,  as  the  matter  of  counter-
terrorism  is  one  of  the  important  issues  on  which  the 
international community and countries of the region are 
focusing their attention. Thanks to the strong support of 
the  international  community,  the  situation  concerning 
political  reconciliation  and  economic  reconstruction 
in  Afghanistan  is  changing.  The  country’s  economy 
is  showing  progress.  Infrastructure  development, 
including the construction of roads, bridges and power 
transmission lines, has made headway, and health and 
education have improved.
Yet,  we  must  not  overlook  the  difficulties  and 
challenges  that  Afghanistan  still  faces  in  the  course 
of  reconstruction.  There  is  no  marked  improvement 
in  the  security  situation.  Terrorist  activities  continue 
unabated,  as  seen  in  the  terrorist  activity  by  the 
Taliban,  Al-Qaida  forces  and  other  extremists.  Illicit 
drug  production  and  trafficking  are  still  rampant. 
Tension  and  internal  conf licts  in  Afghanistan  remain 
primary  sources  of  threats  to  regional  security  and 
stability. We urge the Government of Afghanistan and 
the  International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF) 
to  combat  the  Afghanistan  narcotics  threat  more 
vigorously,  especially  in  view  of  the  undeniable  fact 
that  drug  trafficking  has  become  a  major  source  of 
funding for terrorist activities in Afghanistan.
As  SCO  member  States  are  all  neighbours  of 
Afghanistan,  we  closely  follow  the  developments  in 
that  country  and  support  the  development  of  bilateral 
cooperation between Afghanistan and countries of the 
region. The SCO member States support the efforts to 
A/67/PV.41
make  Afghanistan  an  independent,  neutral,  peaceful 
and  prosperous  country  that  is  free  of  terrorism  and 
drug-related crime. Our countries are of the view that 
the  national  reconciliation  process  in  Afghanistan 
should be Afghan-led and Afghan-owned. That process 
is an important component of any Afghan settlement. 
We also support the Afghan Government-led peace 
process,  which  aims  at  promoting  dialogue  with  those 
elements  in  opposition  to  the  Government  that  have 
renounced  violence,  broken  ties  with  Al-Qaida  and 
other terrorist organizations, denounced terrorism and 
accepted the Afghan Constitution, in full respect of the 
implementation of measures and procedures introduced 
by the Security Council in its resolutions 1267 (1999), 
1988 (2011) and 1989 (2011) and other relevant Council 
resolutions.
We  have  consistently  supported 
the  peaceful 
reconstruction  of  the  country  and  have  over  the  years 
provided  all  feasible  support  and  assistance  to  the 
Afghan  people.  The  SCO  member  States  are  ready  to 
assist with the reconstruction of Afghanistan, including 
through  the  implementation  of  infrastructure,  energy 
and  transport  projects,  with  a  view  to  promoting 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  the  creation  of  jobs 
in Afghanistan. 
It gives me pleasure to inform the Assembly that the 
SCO member States have decided to grant Afghanistan 
observer  status  in  the  SCO.  While  emphasizing  the 
futility  of  attempting  to  resolve  the  Afghan  conf lict 
by  military  means,  SCO  member  States  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  continue  to  scale  up  its 
support  and  assistance  to  Afghanistan,  as  part  of  the 
comprehensive  measures  to  tackle  both  the  symptoms 
and  root  causes  of  the  problems  connected  with  the 
reconstruction of that country, which include enhancing 
capacities,  improving  the  people’s  well-being  and 
strengthening 
self-development 
capacities. 
ownership 
and 
to  foster  conditions 
In  the  security  field,  the  international  community 
should  continue 
that  could 
enable  the  Afghan  Government  to  shoulder  security 
responsibilities. In the economic field, the international 
community  should  honour  its  commitment  to  assist 
Afghanistan’s economic and social development. In the 
area of governance, the international community should 
help  to  enhance  human  resource  development,  while 
maintaining  full  respect  for  the  right  of  the  Afghan 
people to independently choose their political model of 
governance.  The  SCO  member  States  will  continue  to 
12-60766
7
A/67/PV.41
strengthen and upgrade regional cooperation within the 
SCO  framework  and  other  existing  relevant  regional 
formats  in  order  to  build  the  SCO  region  into  one  of 
lasting peace, friendship, prosperity and harmony.
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  is  now  at  a  crucial 
stage. The SCO member States support the central role of 
the United Nations in coordinating international efforts 
on Afghanistan and will assist the Afghan people with 
their national reconstruction. The SCO appreciates the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan (UNAMA) aimed at fulfilling its mission 
and  supports  UNAMA  in  providing  further  necessary 
assistance  for  peace  and  for  the  reconstruction  of 
the  country  within  its  mandate.  It  is  the  sincere  hope 
of  the  SCO  member  States  that  a  peaceful,  stable, 
independent,  sovereign  and  neutral  Afghanistan  that 
enjoys  development,  progress  and  friendship  with  its 
neighbours will emerge at an early date.
(Kazakhstan) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Rakhmetullin 
in 
Russian):  I  have  the  honour  to  make  this  statement  on 
behalf of the States members of the Collective Security 
Treaty Organization (CSTO), that is, Armenia, Belarus, 
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  the  Russian  Federation  and 
Tajikistan.  The  CSTO  member  States  have  carefully 
followed  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  which  borders 
the  organization’s  area  of  responsibility.  We  are 
seriously concerned about the escalating tensions in the 
country.  We  support  Afghanistan’s  efforts  to  become 
a  peaceful,  independent  and  neutral  State  that  is  free 
from terrorism and narcotic drugs.
to 
CSTO  member  States  will  help 
foster 
Afghanistan’s sustainable and secure development with 
a view to reducing the threats to international security 
from  that  country,  such  as  terrorism,  drug  trafficking 
and  religious  extremism,  among  others.  We  note  the 
importance  of  CSTO  capacities  in  countering  such 
threats from Afghanistan. 
CSTO member States consider the illicit production, 
trade and trafficking of drugs from Afghanistan to be a 
threat to international peace and security. We intend to 
step up efforts to combat the Afghan drugs threat in line 
with  the  decisions  of  the  third  Ministerial  Conference 
of  the  Paris  Pact,  held  in  Vienna  on  16  February, 
while  making  use  of  the  capacities  of  the  Central 
Asian  Regional  Information  and  Coordination  Centre 
(CARICC)  in  combating  illicit  trafficking  in  narcotic 
drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors, as 
well  as  while  working  together  through  the  CSTO-led 
counter-narcotics Operation Kanal. We look forward to 
consistent efforts on the part of the Afghan Government 
and the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) 
aimed  at  addressing  the  challenges  related  to  drug 
production and trafficking. We stand ready to cooperate 
closely with NATO on a broad range of issues, including 
combating the drugs threat.
CSTO member States believe that the international 
community,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations, 
should play an active and effective role in the political 
settlement process and in the recovery of Afghanistan, 
in  close  cooperation  with  the  Afghan  Government. 
We  support  the  Government’s  efforts  to  strengthen 
Afghan society and transform the country into a stable 
democratic State. Member States support Afghanistan’s 
active  involvement  in  regional  integration  processes 
and in efforts to strengthen mutual trade and economic 
and  humanitarian  cooperation,  as  well  as  the  swift 
implementation  of  infrastructure  projects  aimed  at 
linking the region with Afghanistan, which will help to 
restore peace, stability and socioeconomic development 
in Afghanistan.
CSTO member States welcome the decisions adopted 
at  the  Bonn  and  Istanbul  Conferences  on  Afghanistan 
in  2011,  the  fifth  conference  on  regional  economic 
cooperation  for  Afghanistan,  held  in  Dushanbe,  the 
Kabul Conference and this year’s economic conference 
in Tokyo. We underscore the important role played by 
CSTO member States in conveying air and land transit 
cargo to meet the needs of ISAF forces in Afghanistan.
We support the process of national reconciliation in 
the country. It is our view, however, that intra-Afghan 
dialogue  can  have  a  positive  effect  only  if  a  leading 
role in the process belongs to the Afghan Government 
and if there is strict compliance by the insurgents with 
three  basic  principles,  namely,  they  must  lay  down 
their weapons, recognize the Afghan Constitution and 
definitively  break  their  ties  with  Al-Qaida  and  other 
extremist organizations. We believe that following the 
completion  of  the  stabilization  efforts  in  Afghanistan, 
ISAF’s  withdrawal  should  take  place  pursuant  to  a 
decision  of  the  Security  Council  based  on  a  report  on 
the implementation of its mandate. 
We  note  the  role  of  other  regional  organizations, 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
primarily 
(SCO),  in  addressing  the  challenges  with  regard  to 
military  and  political  stabilization  and  economic 
recovery  in  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  the  efforts  of 
CARICC  to  combat  illicit  drug  trafficking  based 
8 
12-60766
on  Afghan  production.  We  welcome  Afghanistan’s 
receiving observer status in the CSO and CARICC.
Mr. Aslov (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): Allow me 
to express my gratitude to the President for convening 
this meeting of the General Assembly. 
Tajikistan aligns itself with the statements made by 
the  representatives  of  Kazakhstan  and  Kyrgyzstan  on 
behalf  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization 
(CSTO)  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
(SCO), respectively.
Tajikistan  was  pleased,  once  again,  to  join  the 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.16,  entitled  “The 
situation in Afghanistan”. We hope that, as in previous 
years, the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus. 
Allow me to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the 
German delegation for its work in achieving agreement 
on the text of the draft resolution.
Today,  Afghanistan  is  at  a  critical  juncture  in  its 
modern  history.  By  the  end  of  2014,  the  transition 
process should be completed. Following the withdrawal 
of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), 
Afghan  law-enforcement  bodies  should  be  able  to 
shoulder full responsibility for security in the country. 
Indeed,  at  this  important  and  complex  stage,  the 
international  community  should  provide  Afghanistan 
with its full support. 
is  seeking 
relations  with  Afghanistan  and 
Tajikistan  is  connected  to  Afghanistan  by  many 
historic  and  cultural  links.  Along  those  lines,  our 
to  further  strengthen  good-
country 
neighbourly 
to 
develop  and  step  up  our  bilateral,  mutually  beneficial 
cooperation. We support the international strategy for a 
comprehensive settlement and the post-conﬂ ict recovery 
of  Afghanistan.  In  that  context,  we  wholeheartedly 
support the Afghan Government’s efforts to achieve the 
goals of national reconciliation. We welcome the efforts 
of the international community, particularly the United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force,  to  establish 
lasting peace and stability in that long-suffering land.
in  Afghanistan 
is 
An 
important  factor 
in  ensuring  sustainable 
socioeconomic  development 
to 
get  the  country  involved  in  the  process  of  regional 
integration  through  economic  and  trade  cooperation 
with neighbouring States. In that connection, I should 
like to note the role of the Dushanbe quartet, composed 
of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Russia and Tajikistan, within 
whose  framework  efforts  are  being  made  to  improve 
A/67/PV.41
regional trade and economic cooperation and to counter 
the threats of terrorism, drugs and organized crime, as 
well  as  to  develop  human  resources  for  Afghanistan’s 
military  and  civilian  needs.  Tajikistan  is  actively 
involved in the process of establishing sustainable peace 
and stability in Afghanistan. Given Afghanistan’s need 
to  develop  human  resources  for  law-enforcement  and 
military bodies and to train professional specialists, my 
country has provided opportunities for training border 
officers and law-enforcement and security personnel in 
centres  in  Tajikistan,  particularly  the  regional  college 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe.
More  than  500  Afghan  students  are  currently 
enrolled  in  higher-education  institutions  in  Tajikistan. 
In  accordance  with  a  decision  of  the  Government  of 
Tajikistan,  grants  will  be  awarded  to  approximately 
1,000  Afghan  citizens 
through  2025.  Moreover, 
in  recognition  of  the  fundamental  importance  of 
developing  education  and  training  specialists  for  the 
needs  of  the  economy  in  Afghanistan  and  the  region, 
Tajikistan  has  launched  the  establishment  on  its  own 
territory  of  a  multidisciplinary  professional  and 
technical educational training centre.
Thanks  to  its  favourable  geographic  location, 
Afghanistan  can  play  a  highly  important  role  in 
developing regional integration processes. In the context 
of  globalization,  the  significance  of  Afghanistan’s 
geographic position at the crossroads between the various 
regions of the Asian continent can only expand. In that 
connection,  Tajikistan  fully  supports  the  development 
and  implementation  of  infrastructure  projects  in  the 
areas  of  communications  and  transportation,  both  in 
Afghanistan  and  in  the  region  in  general.  Tajikistan 
and  Afghanistan  are  currently  linked  by  five  bridges 
spanning the  border along the Panj River. That enables 
the delivery of humanitarian assistance and other cargo 
to remote areas of Afghanistan. It also helps to promote 
the  growing  trade  between  our  two  countries,  as  well 
as  to  expand  transit  capacity.  A  projected  railroad 
between  Kyrgyzstan,  Tajikistan  and  Afghanistan, 
which  would  also  link  to  an  existing  Uzbekistan-
Afghanistan  branch  and  to  two  prospective  Iran-
Afghanistan  and  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan  branches, 
has undergone international evaluation and is awaiting 
implementation.  The  route  is  destined  to  become  a 
transit artery of regional significance that will promote 
the  development  of  regional  trade  and  economic 
recovery for Afghanistan.
12-60766
9
A/67/PV.41
In  the  current  circumstances,  energy  is  of  key 
importance  for  rebuilding  Afghanistan’s  devastated 
economy. The hydroelectric plants currently operating 
in  Tajikistan,  as  well  as  those  under  construction,  are 
capable  not  only  of  meeting  Afghanistan’s  needs  for 
ecologically  clean  and  affordable  electric  power  but 
also  of  broadening  its  agricultural  development  by 
restoring  and  improving  its  irrigation  systems.  In  that 
context,  I  should  like  to  note  the  special  importance 
of  building  power-transmission-line  projects  through 
Afghanistan.  Last  year  a  220-kilovolt  transmission 
line  began  operating  from  Tajikistan’s  Sangtuda-1 
hydroelectric  power  station  to  the  Afghan  city  of 
Puli  Khumri.  The  CASA-1000  trade  and  transmission 
project  has  been  launched  to  help  solve  the  problem 
of  the  shortage  of  power  in  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan 
by  using  the  hydroelectric  potential  of  Central  Asian 
countries.  We  support  the  projected  gas  pipeline  to 
be  laid  from  Turkmenistan  across  Afghanistan  to 
Tajikistan  and  Pakistan,  which,  besides  supplying  the 
natural-gas needs of the countries of the region, would 
also create a reliable source of income for Afghanistan.
The issue of Afghanistan’s socioeconomic recovery 
was  covered  in  depth  at  the  fifth  Regional  Economic 
Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan,  held 
in 
Dushanbe in the spring. The Conference recommended 
the implementation of about 20 projects in the areas of 
transportation,  communications,  energy,  investment, 
education, building human capacity, border control and 
other  areas,  which  could  contribute  to  Afghanistan’s 
restoration 
development. 
Establishing  significant  levels  of  peace  and  security 
in  Afghanistan  will  depend  on  broad  and  effective 
international  and  regional  cooperation  and  sincere, 
consistent  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community  to  achieve  goals  that  meet  the  aspirations 
and  expectations  of  the  Afghan  people.  We  hope  that 
the adoption of today’s draft resolution by the General 
Assembly will serve that noble purpose.
socioeconomic 
and 
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General for his latest report on the situation 
in Afghanistan, contained in document A/67/354.
The  year  2014  will  see  two  significant  events 
that  will  shape  the  next  stage  of  Afghanistan’s  future. 
One  is  the  complete  withdrawal  of  the  International 
Stabilization  Assistance  Force  (ISAF);  the  second  is 
the  presidential  elections.  They  are  equally  important 
and should be looked at as two sides of the same coin.
On  the  one  side,  security  in  Afghanistan  is  a 
prerequisite  for  the  success  of  political  and  economic 
reconstruction and transformation processes across the 
board. In that regard, Malaysia is encouraged that there 
have been fewer security incidents and insurgent attacks 
this year as compared with 2011. However, the figures 
are  certainly  not  encouraging  enough.  The  killing  of 
civilians  and  the  targeting  of  prominent  individuals 
remain  a  concern.  The  international  community  must 
look  at  ways  to  counter  such  incidents.  In  doing  so,  it 
must  take  special  care  not  to  give  further  reasons  for 
people to turn away from the transition process and join 
the insurgents. Civilian deaths resulting from military 
operations  by  international  forces  must  be  avoided  at 
all  costs.  In  fact,  any  civilian  casualties  will  create 
resentment  and  fuel  anger  among  the  people,  making 
efforts to ensure peace and security that much harder.
On the f lip side, fair elections that are inclusive and 
free from external interference will ensure a competent 
Government that enjoys the support of the people. The 
Government can then concentrate on efforts to establish 
good  governance,  promote  justice,  human  rights  and 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  and  foster  equitable  social 
and economic development in the country. That in turn 
will plant the seeds for lasting peace and stability from 
within Afghanistan itself.
Malaysia  appreciates  the  continued  support  that 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 
has  given  to  the  work  of  the  High  Peace  Council  and 
the  Afghanistan  Peace  and  Reintegration  Programme. 
We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Salahuddin  Rabbani, 
who has emphasized the need to improve inclusiveness 
in  the  High  Peace  Council.  Malaysia  is  heartened  to 
note that the efforts of the Government of Afghanistan 
to  engage  with  insurgents  in  order  to  rehabilitate 
and  reintegrate  them  into  society  have  borne  fruit. 
We  believe  that  rehabilitated  insurgents  can  help  the 
Government in its efforts to restore peace through their 
active participation as local community leaders.
Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  inclusiveness  also 
needs to be extended to women. By getting the support 
of  women,  the  Government  would,  in  effect,  further 
marginalize  those  who  are  out  to  create  instability  in 
the  country.  Furthermore,  women  would  contribute 
immensely  to  development  efforts.  To  neglect  such  a 
huge  percentage  of  the  population  would  only  mean 
underutilizing the potential human capital available in 
the country. Afghanistan certainly cannot afford to do 
that.
10 
12-60766
Malaysia understands the need to take into account 
the cultural and traditional sensitivities in Afghanistan, 
which are based on religious beliefs. It is the same for 
Malaysia. We continue to take various measures towards 
achieving  gender  equality  and  women’s  development 
through  various  policy 
legislation, 
capacity-building  and  entrepreneurial  programmes. 
Malaysia  wishes  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
women’s  education  and  health  care  and  the  need  to 
change  the  widely  accepted  stereotypical  roles  of 
men  and  women  in  society,  all  the  while  taking  into 
consideration the need to protect the sanctity of Islam. 
In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  Malaysia  has  much  to 
offer, and we are willing to share our experience.
frameworks, 
Many  impediments  remain  in  the  run-up  to  2014. 
It  is  obvious  that  the  Afghan  Government  will  need 
the  assistance  of  the  international  community  in  its 
efforts  to  forge  a  better  future  for  its  people.  We  are 
pleased  to  note  the  success  of  the  Tokyo  Conference 
on  Afghanistan  last  July,  which  saw  the  international 
community  pledge  $16  billion  in  development  aid 
over  the  next  four  years.  The  number  of  high-level 
representatives and the financial commitments made at 
the Conference send a clear message to those who intend 
to derail the transition and transformation process that 
Afghanistan  will  not  be  abandoned  and  will  enjoy  the 
support of the international community.
For  our  part,  Malaysia  will  identify  the  specific 
areas of assistance and cooperation that we are able to 
extend to Afghanistan and its people under the Malaysia 
Technical Assistance Programme, with particular focus 
on capacity-building and human resource development. 
In  addition,  40  members  of  the  Malaysian  Armed 
Forces medical contingent for the International Security 
Assistance  Force,  which  includes  women  doctors  and 
nurses, were deployed in July 2010 to provide medical, 
dentistry  and  other  health-care  services  and  capacity-
building programmes to the Afghan people in Bamyan 
province.  The  team  has  managed  to  take  local  social 
and  religious  sensitivities  into  consideration  while 
providing health-care services.
Malaysia  has  also  been  providing  assistance  in 
the  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan  over  the  past  10 
years  through  various  bilateral  technical  training  and 
capacity-building  programmes  in  a  broad  range  of 
areas. We are pleased to note that a number of Afghan 
officials  have  benefited  from  the  many  technical 
courses  that  Malaysia  has  offered.  In  2011  and  2012, 
Malaysia  has  contributed  a  total  of  nearly  $14  million 
A/67/PV.41
in  humanitarian  assistance  and  capacity-building 
programmes to Afghanistan.
Malaysia is cautiously optimistic about the situation 
in  Afghanistan.  We  recognize  that  the  next  few  years 
will  be  crucial  for  the  future  of  the  country.  While 
we support full Afghan leadership and ownership, the 
international  community  must  take  steps  to  ensure 
that  when  ISAF  leaves,  the  foundations  have  been 
put  in  place  to  allow  Afghanistan  to  move  forward. 
The  international  community  must  also  ensure  that 
the  transition  of  power  to  the  next  President  is  done 
smoothly.
Progress  has  been  made  and  we  should  capitalize 
on  it.  Afghanistan  cannot  afford  to  fall  back  into  the 
despair  of  war.  Malaysia  will  do  its  utmost  to  support 
Afghanistan’s 
reconstruction 
process.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  play  a 
meaningful role in Afghanistan’s development towards 
lasting peace, stability and prosperity.
reconciliation 
and 
Mr.  Al-Jarman  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  The  United  Arab  Emirates  supports  the  draft 
resolution before the General Assembly on the situation 
in  Afghanistan  (A/67/L.16).  We  reiterate  our  support 
for  all  Afghan  national  efforts  to  expand  the  process 
of constructive and inclusive Afghan-led dialogue and 
reconciliation, including all segments of the populations 
and all political parties in the process, in order to achieve 
national unity, stability and long-term development. We 
also support the good offices conducted in that regard 
by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, 
the  Mission  of  Norway  and  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan 
Joint Commission for Reconciliation and Peace.
to  adopt  an 
In  that  context,  we  emphasize  the  need  for  the 
international  community 
innovative 
approach  in  providing  more  inclusive  development 
support  to  Afghanistan  in  the  economic,  logistical 
and  technical  fields.  Such  inclusive  support  should 
be  under  the  supervision  of  the  United  Nations  and 
done  in  cooperation  with  international  organizations, 
donor countries and other concerned parties to promote 
stability, strengthen national capacities and sreolve the 
internal problems of Afghanistan, as well as to organize, 
reform  and  develop  its  national  institutions.  That  will 
enable  Afghanistan,  through  its  institutions,  to  carry 
out its full responsibilities, meet the needs of its people, 
consolidate security and enhance law enforcement. 
In that regard, we welcome the gradual transition of 
security tasks to the Afghan National Security Forces, 
12-60766
11
A/67/PV.41
in accordance with the Kabul process, especially in the 
matter of extending their control over all regions of the 
country,  preserving  national  security  and  achieving 
economic  and  social  development  by  the  time  of  the 
withdrawal of most foreign troops in 2014.
We  would  also  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
the  region’s  role  in  achieving  security  and  stability 
in  Afghanistan.  The  region  should  seek  to  put  in 
place  an  inclusive  package  of  security  cooperation, 
confidence-building measures and multilateral support 
in  several  areas,  such  as  reconstruction,  health  and 
education  and  in  combating  terrorism,  extremism  and 
the  production  and  trafficking  of  drugs.  We  also  look 
forward  to  further  initiatives  of  cooperation  between 
Afghanistan  and  neighbouring  countries  in  the  areas 
of security, the economy and trade. In that context, we 
welcome the ongoing, constructive bilateral cooperation 
between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  stood  by  the 
Afghan  people  from  the  very  onset  of  their  crisis. 
Over  the  past  10  years,  we  have  continued  to  provide 
political and economic support through direct bilateral 
cooperation and as part of the international community. 
Our  assistance  aims  to  support  the  implementation 
of  infrastructure  projects  in  Afghanistan,  including 
economic 
reconstruction, 
rehabilitation  and  development  programmes  in  the 
health,  agricultural,  social  and  security  sectors.  We 
also  support  other  multipurpose  charitable  projects 
aimed at restoring security and stability in all parts of 
the  country,  reducing  the  suffering  of  its  people  and 
improving all aspects of their lives.
recovery  projects  and 
including 
foundations, 
The  total  contributions  by  the  Government  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  Afghanistan  since  the 
year  2000  to  advance  its  national  economy  amount  to 
approximately $272 million dollars. That is in addition 
to  private  assistance  from  United  Arab  Emirates 
humanitarian 
the  Sheikh 
Khalifa  Foundation,  which,  in  collaboration  with  the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, made an estimated 
contribution  of  $100  million,  earmarked  for  the  mass 
immunization  programme 
for  Afghan  children. 
Also,  in  July,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  announced  a 
grant  of  $250  million  dollars,  80  per  cent  of  which  is 
earmarked  for  building  houses  for  Afghans,  including 
widows, orphans and the disabled, as well as for other 
development projects and the rehabilitation of a number 
of institutions in Kabul and other provinces. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  participated  in 
implementation  of  several  governmental  and 
the 
non-governmental  projects 
in  Afghanistan.  They 
include  the  construction  of  training  centres,  road 
projects  and  infrastructure  rebuilding,  particularly 
in  the  areas  of  education  and  rural  development.  We 
participate as well in a demining project in Kandahar, 
which is expected to be completed within four years at 
a  cost  of  $28  million.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  also 
contributed to the international military efforts through 
the  International  Security  Assistance  Force  of  NATO 
for  the  purpose  of  reconstructing  Afghanistan  and 
providing support and assistance to its people.
We  highly  appreciate  the  considerable  efforts 
made  by  the  International  Security  Assistance  Force 
in Afghanistan, under the command of NATO and the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, as 
well as by other partners of the international community, 
to  restore  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  and 
improve  the  quality  of  life  of  its  people.  However,  we 
call  for  focusing  international  action  on  accelerating 
the  work  of  the  implementation  mechanisms  of  the 
country’s national comprehensive development strategy 
in order to develop the capacities of the key sectors in 
Afghanistan  so  as  to  enable  them  to  meet  the  needs 
of  the  people  and  to  consolidate  peace,  growth  and 
stability in all provinces. That should include restoring 
Afghanistan’s traditional place both in the region and in 
the international community.
Mr.  Ragaglini  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made earlier by the observer of the European 
Union  and  would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  in  its 
national capacity.
We  welcome  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation 
in Afghanistan (A/67/L.16) and support its adoption by 
consensus.  In  doing  so,  we  confirm  our  appreciation 
of  the  substantial  contribution  the  United  Nations  is 
making to the stabilization of Afghanistan. Italy values 
the  continued  efforts  that  the  Secretary-General  and 
his  Special  Representative  are  promoting  to  that  end 
and  reiterates  its  full  and  convinced  support  for  their 
work. We also commend the role of the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  in  leading  and 
coordinating  the  civilian  efforts  of  the  international 
community,  the  importance  of  which  will  grow  as  the 
military commitment gradually diminishes.
Over 
the  past  year,  a  series  of 
important 
conferences  has  allowed  the  international  community 
and  Afghanistan  to  better  define  the  terms  of  their 
12 
12-60766
relationship,  which  will  go  well  beyond  the  transition 
process throughout what is known as the transformation 
decade. Afghanistan has made remarkable progress over 
the past 10 years in such fields as institutional capacity, 
economic  growth,  the  enhancement  of  human  rights 
and  the  development  of  its  security  forces.  However, 
much remains to be done, and international support is 
still needed. That is why Italy fully supports the strong, 
credible,  unequivocal  message  that  has  emerged  from 
the meetings held in Bonn, Chicago, Kabul and Tokyo, 
that  is,  the  international  community  will  not  abandon 
Afghanistan after 2014. 
As  for  our  national  contribution, 
through  a 
decade-long  presence,  Italy  has  shown  its  steadfast 
commitment  to  the  stabilization  and  reconstruction 
of  Afghanistan.  Over  the  past  months,  we  have  stated 
our  intention  to  stand  by  Afghanistan  in  a  long-term 
perspective  beyond  2014.  The  bilateral  partnership 
agreement  signed  last  January  is  the  cornerstone  of  a 
relationship  that  will  be  based  less  on  assistance  and 
more  on  mutual  commitments  and  cooperation  on  an 
equal footing.
I would like to make three comments. 
First, while our Afghan friends must feel reassured 
in this perspective, it is equally important to highlight 
that a new, more mature and more demanding partnership 
is  being  forged.  At  the  Tokyo  Conference  all  parties 
undertook  substantial  commitments:  on  the  one  hand, 
the  international  community  will  continue  to  assure 
its  financial  and  political  support  of  Afghanistan;  on 
the other, the Afghan Government is expected to make 
further  progress  in  such  areas  as  democratic  reforms, 
transparency,  good  governance,  and  the  protection 
and promotion of human rights, in particular women’s 
rights. 
As expressed on several occasions, Italy considers 
the  issue  of  women’s  conditions  a  top  priority.  We 
recognize  the  tangible  progress  that  the  Afghan 
Government  has  made  in  that  domain,  enhancing  the 
status  of  women  in  such  important  areas  as  education 
and  political  participation.  Those  hard-won  gains 
now  need  to  be  preserved  and  further  consolidated. 
We  also  believe  that  the  full  inclusion  of  women  in 
Afghan society, on the basis of opportunities and rights 
equal  to  those  of  men,  as  stated  in  article  22  of  the 
Afghan Constitution, will help Afghanistan achieve its 
development and security goals.
A/67/PV.41
Secondly,  the  time  has  come  for  Afghanistan 
to  turn  over  a  new  leaf  in  its  history  and  overcome 
decades  of  conf lict  and  turbulence.  The  success  of 
the  reconciliation  process  among  the  many  ethnic  and 
political components of Afghan society is a prerequisite 
for  building  long-term  stabilization  and  lasting  peace. 
We  therefore  encourage  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan 
Government  to  advance  this  process.  We  believe  that 
sustainable reconciliation can be achieved only through 
an  inclusive,  nationwide,  collective  commitment  to 
peace,  with  the  full  participation  of  women  and  civil 
society,  particularly  in  light  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1325 (2000).
Thirdly,  the  success  of  the  reconciliation  process 
is  key  not  only  to  the  stabilization  and  prosperity  of 
Afghanistan,  but  also  to  the  stability  of  the  region  as 
a  whole.  While  fully  respecting  Afghan  ownership 
of  the  peace  process,  we  believe  that  the  regional 
environment  could  help  create  the  conditions  for  its 
positive advancement. In that regard, we appreciate the 
recent  visit  of  a  delegation  of  the  High  Peace  Council 
to Pakistan, as it represents an important step forward 
in regional dialogue and is a sign of a common will to 
re-energize the process. 
In  the  same  spirit,  we  prize  the  initiatives  aimed 
at enhancing regional cooperation with Afghanistan. In 
particular, we are encouraged by the progress achieved 
so far within the Istanbul Process on Regional Security 
and Cooperation for a Secure and Stable Afghanistan, 
under  the  commendable  leadership  of  the  Afghan 
Government.  We  expect  the  action  plans  for  the  first 
set  of  confidence-building  measures  to  be  finalized 
soon  so  that  their  implementation  can  begin,  and 
we  reaffirm  Italy’s  readiness  to  contribute  to  those 
measures  concerning  counter-narcotics  and  regional 
infrastructure.  Meanwhile,  a  structured  and  genuine 
political  dialogue  among  the  countries  of  the  Heart  of 
Asia initiative remains a key component of the process, 
as it can strengthen mutual trust.
The upcoming elections represent a crucial test for 
the  f ledgling  Afghan  democracy.  We  are  encouraged 
by the commitment shown by the Afghan Government, 
and  we  welcome  the  recent  announcement  of  the  date 
of  the  elections  as  an  important  step  forward.  It  is  of 
the  utmost  importance  to  guarantee  the  credibility, 
inclusiveness  and  transparency  of  the  whole  electoral 
process,  so  as  to  lead  up  to  a  legitimate  and  broadly 
accepted outcome.
12-60766
13
A/67/PV.41
Let  me  conclude  by  recalling  the  importance  of 
today’s  draft  resolution.  The  international  community 
is  speaking  with  one  voice  and  the  message  it 
is  delivering  is  clear,  that  is,  the  stabilization  of 
Afghanistan remains a priority and the Afghan people 
can  count  on  international  support  for  the  years  to 
come. The year 2014 is not the end date of international 
commitment, but a turning point towards a future that 
is more and more in the hands of the Afghan people and 
Government.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  Japan  is  pleased  to  sponsor 
the draft resolution (A/67/L.16) before us. The unity of 
the international community in supporting Afghanistan 
is of particular importance for the long-term stability of 
the country. Adopting the draft resolution by consensus 
would  send  a  strong  message  reaffirming  that  point. 
Sincere appreciation is due to our colleagues from the 
German  delegation,  who  ably  led  the  consultations 
throughout the entire process.
Over the past year we have indeed witnessed a series 
of  important  international  conferences  with  decisive 
outcomes  based  on  both  the  Afghan  Government’s 
determination  to  secure  long-term  stability  and  the 
long-term  commitments  of  its  international  partners 
beyond 2014. Building on the outcomes from the Bonn 
Conference,  the  NATO  Chicago  Summit,  the  Kabul 
Ministerial  Conference  and  the  Tokyo  Conference, 
Afghanistan  now  has  a  road  map  before  it  leading 
towards a stable future with economic growth.
Given  that  political  and  development  momentum, 
I would like to stress the following three points, which 
are  critical  to  the  lasting  peace  and  stability  of  the 
country.
First, 
in 
that 
the  belief 
the  Tokyo  Mutual 
Accountability  Framework  serves  as 
the  driving 
force  for  allowing  Afghanistan  to  achieve  its  political 
and  development  goals,  Japan  strongly  urges  the 
Government  to  continue  making  the  utmost  efforts 
to  realize  its  commitments  for  a  stronger  and  more 
accountable  Government,  as  stated  in  the  Tokyo 
Framework. In that connection, we welcome the Afghan 
Government’s follow-up initiatives led by the Ministry 
of Finance and look forward to seeing concrete actions 
and tangible outcomes on the ground to follow.
Secondly,  the  road  map  before  us  will  not  bear 
fruit as planned unless it is reinforced by the sustained 
political  will  of  the  Afghan  Government  to  proceed 
with the peace and reconciliation process.
Needless  to  say,  this  entire  course  is  inseparably 
related  to  the  improvement  of  the  security  situation 
through the building up of the Afghan National Security 
Forces and the advancement of the reintegration process. 
They  must  therefore  be  addressed  in  a  simultaneous 
and  effective  manner  in  order  to  achieve  irreversible 
progress.  Given  the  final  timeline  for  the  security 
transition, there is no more time to lose.
The peace and reconciliation process is an Afghan-
led  process.  Japan  supports  the  High  Peace  Council’s 
active  efforts  in  leading  dialogues  with  the  relevant 
parties and especially welcomes the developments and 
outcome of the recent visit of Mr. Rabbani, Chairman of 
High Peace Council, to Pakistan. It is also encouraging 
to  see  other  actors,  including  non-governmental  and 
civilian  institutions,  being  engaged  in  the  process  as 
well,  as  we  believe  that  such  initiatives,  when  well 
coordinated,  could  effectively  complement  the  High 
Peace Council’s activities.
Last  but  not  least,  we  cannot  stress  enough  the 
importance  of  the  upcoming  presidential  elections  in 
April  2014.  The  elections  will  be  a  testimony  to  all 
the  efforts  and  achievements  of  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan and its people in all spheres. A wide range 
of interlinked challenges persist, including concerning 
security control, electoral law reforms, the elimination 
of  fraud,  an  efficient  voter  registration  system, 
inclusiveness,  and  others  that  should  be  addressed  by 
the  Afghan  leadership  with  the  continued  support  of 
the  international  community,  headed  by  the  United 
Nations.  We  strongly  hope  that  the  election  results 
will lend much stronger legitimacy to the Government 
of  Afghanistan  and  allow  the  desired  advancement 
towards prosperity.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
determination to exert our fullest efforts for the peace 
and stability of Afghanistan as a Member of the United 
Nations  and  the  unified  international  community.  Let 
us  adopt  this  draft  resolution  by  consensus,  without 
hesitation.
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  join  other  Member  States 
in  sponsoring  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  (A/67/L.16).  The  draft  resolution  ref lects 
the  fact  that  the  international  community  remains 
committed to supporting the Afghan people in building 
a  secure,  stable  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  through 
the 2014 security and political transition and beyond.
14 
12-60766
We  recognize  the  continued  service  of  the  United 
Nations  in  Afghanistan.  We  also  commend  the  brave 
and  dedicated  work  of  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces, the International Security Assistance Force and 
United  Nations  personnel  who  are  helping  to  build  a 
more secure Afghanistan.
Since  we  met  last  year,  the  Afghan  people  and 
the  international  community  have  continued  on  the 
path  towards  a  responsible  security  transition  and  an 
enduring  commitment  to  Afghanistan.  The  meetings 
in Bonn, Chicago, Kabul and Tokyo clarified the path 
ahead. The transition is on track and the international 
community’s long-term commitment to Afghanistan is 
resolute.
Afghanistan and international partners have charted 
a responsible road for the transfer of full responsibility 
for security back to the Afghans. The Afghan National 
Security Forces continue to grow in size and capability 
and  should  reach  their  goal  of  being  352,000-strong 
this  year.  The  Afghan  army  is  fighting  in  over  90  per 
cent of all operations and is leading nearly half of them. 
Through  the  third  tranche  of  the  security  transition, 
75  per  cent  of  the  Afghan  population,  including  every 
provincial capital, will be part of the transition process. 
The NATO Summit in May confirmed that the progress 
will  be  supported  by  the  international  community 
beyond  2014.  NATO  and  its  potential  operational 
partners  will  continue  to  provide  training,  assistance 
and  advisory  capacity  as  Afghanistan  moves  into  the 
transformation decade.
Afghanistan’s  future  will  be  realized  not  only 
by  a  strong,  capable  security  force  but  also  by  the 
Afghan  people’s  access  to  economic  opportunity  and 
a Government that meets their needs. The international 
community’s  total  pledges  in  Tokyo  of  $16  billion  in 
economic  assistance  through  2015  meet  the  World 
Bank’s estimate of Afghanistan’s requirements, just as 
the Chicago Summit met its security requirements. That 
assistance  will  help  Afghanistan  attract  private-sector 
investment  and  help  usher  in  a  transformation  decade 
marked  less  by  aid  and  more  by  trade  —  all  in  a 
framework of mutual accountability, regional economic 
integration and shared responsibility.
The  security  and  economic  progress  will  further 
be  bolstered  by  a  region  that  sees  value  in  peace. 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours  and  near  neighbours  have 
spoken  in  one  voice  to  assure  Afghanistan  of  their 
support for an Afghan-led reconciliation process. They 
endorsed  the  principles  that  need  to  guide  peace  and 
A/67/PV.41
reconciliation  at  the  Kabul  Conference  that  was  held 
over the summer in support of the Istanbul Process on 
Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and 
Stable Afghanistan.
Accompanying the security transition in 2014 will 
be a political transition. We welcome President Karzai’s 
recent  decision  that  elections  will  be  held  in  April  of 
2014,  and  we  also  note  the  strong  commitments  made 
by the Afghan Government to strengthen and improve 
its  electoral  processes.  That  constitutional  transfer  of 
power  through  a  credible  and  inclusive  presidential 
election  will  be  critical  to  maintaining  stability  and 
preserving support from international donors. 
Afghanistan  today  shows  the  tangible  effects 
of  the  efforts  we  all  have  made  over  the  past  decade. 
Kabul  is  now  a  commercial  centre  of  over  5  million 
people.  Schooling  and  primary  health  care  have  been 
transformed. According to UNICEF, 10 years ago fewer 
than  1  million  Afghan  children  attended  school  and 
today  more  than  8.2  million  children  will  receive  an 
education, 3 million of whom are girls. Child mortality 
rates  have  fallen  by  half,  and  the  number  of  health 
facilities has tripled.
The  United  Nations  role  in  that  process  remains 
indispensable.  In  supporting  regional  diplomacy  and 
through  its  development  and  humanitarian  assistance 
role  in  Afghanistan,  the  United  Nations  continues  to 
make  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  the  Afghan  people. 
Countries  of  the  region,  together  with  the  broader 
international community, have come together with the 
Afghan  people  in  support  of  Afghanistan’s  future.  In 
Bonn, Chicago, Kabul and Tokyo we made the necessary 
commitment  to  realize  that  future.  We  applaud  those 
efforts and support the Afghan people in that process.
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant  (United  Kingdom):  I  wish 
to thank the German delegation for the excellent work 
it has done in steering the negotiations on today’s draft 
resolution  (A/67/L.16).  I  also  thank  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan  for  its  constructive  engagement  in  the 
process throughout.
Today,  I  will  focus  on  what  the  United  Kingdom 
considers to be the key issues ahead in Afghanistan: first, 
the  security  transition  from  NATO  to  Afghan  forces; 
secondly,  the  Afghan-led  peace  and  reconciliation 
process;  thirdly,  the  2014  Afghan  elections;  and, 
fourthly,  the  long-term  international  commitment  to 
Afghanistan.
12-60766
15
A/67/PV.41
First,  with  regard  to  transition,  2014  is  drawing 
near.  NATO  continues  the  important  work  of  handing 
over  security  to  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces. 
The United Kingdom remains confident in the ability of 
all parties to get that done within the agreed timescale. 
We  are  confident  because  transition  is  working  well 
and  is  on  track.  The  Afghan  National  Security  Forces 
are growing in strength and capability. They are taking 
responsibility for their own security and doing so with 
enthusiasm  and  professionalism.  But  we  have  always 
recognized  that  there  is  no  purely  military  solution  to 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  which  is  why  peace  and 
reconciliation remain key.
The  objective  remains  the  same:  we  support  the 
Afghan Government in its attempts to secure a peaceful 
political settlement and agree that that should be done 
in unity with key partners in the region. The Security 
Council’s  renewal  of  the  sanctions  regime  established 
under  resolution  1988  (2011)  next  month  will  be  an 
opportunity  to  contribute  further  to  this  process.  We 
must  ensure  that  designated  individuals  can  travel 
to  participate  in  reconciliation  talks  and  that  the 
designation  criteria  focus  specifically  on  those  who 
pose a threat to Afghanistan’s security.
Secondly,  it  is  imperative  that  we  continue  to 
build  on  the  momentum  and  achievements  to  date. 
The  United  Kingdom  therefore  welcomes  the  visit  of 
the  Afghan  High  Peace  Council  to  Pakistan  earlier 
this  month.  We  understand  that  the  talks  they  held 
were  very  productive,  and  we  are  encouraged  by  the 
clear  commitment  of  both  parties  to  the  peace  and 
reconciliation  process.  We  welcome  in  particular 
the  call  to  the  Taliban  and  other  armed  opposition 
groups to participate in the peace process and to sever 
links  with  Al-Qaida  and  other  international  terrorist 
networks. The United Kingdom will continue to do all 
it  can  to  support  efforts  by  Pakistan  and  Afghanistan 
to strengthen their cooperation on this important issue.
Thirdly, the elections planned for 5 April 2014 will 
bring  many  challenges,  but  we  cannot  underestimate 
their importance. The United Kingdom looks forward to 
credible and inclusive elections that deliver a peaceful 
transition  of  power  to  a  Government  decided  by  the 
people  of  Afghanistan.  They  will  demand  nothing 
less,  and  the  international  community  should  strongly 
support  that  objective.  To  achieve  those  aspirations, 
transparency is key. We encourage the Government of 
Afghanistan to tackle the issues that have overshadowed 
previous  elections  and  ensure  that  the  prospects  for 
voter fraud and violent incidents are reduced.
Finally, let me reiterate the long-term commitment 
of  the  United  Kingdom  to  Afghanistan.  The  United 
Kingdom  will  continue  to  build  on  our  excellent 
security  partnership,  to  further  social  and  economic 
ties and to form closer cultural links with Afghanistan. 
The  Enduring  Strategic  Partnership  document,  agreed 
by  the  United  Kingdom  and  Afghanistan  earlier  this 
year, provides the basis for those ambitions.
The  international  community  as  a  whole  has 
made  clear  its  enduring  commitment  to  Afghanistan. 
We  are  pleased  that  the  draft  resolution  before  the 
General  Assembly  today  (A/67/L.16)  is  another  signal 
of  that.  The  NATO  Chicago  Summit,  followed  by  the 
Tokyo  Conference,  provided  clear  evidence  of  that 
commitment.  The  pledges  made  on  both  occasions 
demonstrated  the  seriousness  with  which  we  are 
approaching  post-2014  Afghanistan.  The  United 
Kingdom  will  continue  to  meet  the  obligations  into 
which  we  have  entered,  and  we  are  committed  to 
ensuring  that  all  parties  do  likewise.  In  particular, 
we  strongly  support  the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability 
Framework  as  an  invaluable  mechanism  to  manage 
the  commitments  of  the  international  community  and 
Afghanistan to each other.
Finally,  the  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  and 
enduring role to play in Afghanistan. We will continue 
to ensure that it has the right people, the right objectives 
and  appropriate  resources  to  carry  out  its  important 
work.
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  for  having  convened  this  important  debate, 
which  provides  the  General  Assembly  an  annual 
opportunity to review the progress made towards peace, 
stability and development in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan  needs 
the  continued  and  active 
engagement  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member 
States.  We  hope  that  today’s  meeting  and  this  year’s 
draft resolution (A/67/L.16), which Pakistan is pleased 
to  be  a  sponsor  of,  will  strengthen  our  collective 
commitment to Afghanistan.
After the decade-long endeavours of the international 
community  for  State-building  in  Afghanistan,  the 
country  is  poised  to  assume  full  responsibility  for 
its  security  and  governance.  The  transition  process 
initiated  after  the  2010  Kabul  Conference  generated 
the  optimism  of  having  a  destination  in  sight.  Since 
16 
12-60766
then,  Afghanistan’s  progress  in  assuming  greater 
responsibilities  is  discernible.  Further  progress  on 
transition  will  require  sustained  engagement  by  the 
international community. This year’s Chicago Summit 
and  Tokyo  Conference  outlined  the  framework  for 
such  engagement.  It  is  important  for  all  pledges  to  be 
honoured  and  translated  into  action.  There  should  be 
no repeat of a situation whereby Afghanistan is left to 
fend for itself.
This  year,  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  was 
reviewed with a view to aligning it with the transition 
process.  We  hope  that  will  allow  UNAMA  to  play  a 
more productive role.
The  Afghan  Government’s  greater  control  of 
territory 
is  encouraging.  It  can  enhance  public 
perception  of  greater  security  and  confidence  in 
institutional structures, which is critical for long-term 
stability.
The  Secretary-General’s  latest  report  (A/67/354) 
includes  an  assessment  of  post-2014  Afghanistan.  We 
agree  that  security  and  humanitarian  risks  associated 
with  the  withdrawal  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  must  be  addressed  in  a  forthright 
manner.  Four  decades  of  war  have  made  it  clear  that 
the  vexing  question  of  Afghan  security  does  not  lend 
itself  to  military  solutions.  Only  a  comprehensive 
approach  can  change  the  underlying  dynamics  of  a 
deep-seated  cycle  of  conf lict.  The  Afghan-led  peace 
and  reconciliation  process  is  a  manifestation  of  that 
realization.  It  rightly  seeks  to  address  the  root  causes 
of  insecurity  and  tackles  the  fundamental  nature  of 
conf lict in Afghanistan.
We  believe  that  the  sustainability  of  the  peace 
process  will  be  ensured  if  all  stakeholders  share  the 
goal  of  reconciliation.  Afghanistan’s 
international 
partners should facilitate such a convergence.
Externally 
imposed, 
caveats 
complicate  the  peace  process.  Similarly,  the  idea  of 
coerced  reconciliation  runs  counter  to  a  fundamental 
lesson of Afghan history.
impracticable 
Pakistan  supports  an  Afghan-led  peace  process. 
We fully support the efforts of the Afghan High Peace 
Council  under  the  able  leadership  of  Mr.  Salahuddin 
Rabbani.
Pakistan has always emphasized the importance of 
regional  unity  to  deal  with  challenges  of  security  and 
A/67/PV.41
development  in  Afghanistan.  Immediate  neighbours 
have  a  special  role  in  the  stability  of  Afghanistan. 
Pakistan is engaged in a number of important regional 
initiatives  on  Afghanistan  that  aim  to  foster  greater 
regional connectivity in order to promote economic and 
commercial  cooperation  as  well  as  root  out  narcotics, 
terrorism and extremism.
Pakistan organized this month’s regional ministerial 
conference on counter-narcotics, in which 13 countries 
participated.  The  conference  declaration  seeks  to 
establish a regional contact group on counter-narcotics 
as part of a comprehensive regional approach. It charts 
a concrete road map based on agreed timelines.
Pakistan’s  bilateral  relations  with  Afghanistan  are 
driven  by  a  sense  of  shared  destiny.  Our  cooperation 
spans  the  entire  spectrum  of  political,  economic, 
education  and  cultural  relations.  There  are  regular 
exchanges of visits and continuous dialogue, including 
at the highest levels.
Pakistan  is  engaged  in  several  reconstruction 
and  development  projects  in  Afghanistan,  including 
the  construction  of  hospitals,  roads  and  educational 
institutions.  In  2010  Pakistan  doubled  the  number  of 
scholarships  offered  to  Afghan  students  for  higher 
education. Our official bilateral trade with Afghanistan 
stands at approximately $2 billion annually. The target 
to enhance it to $5 billion by 2015 is well within reach.
In  the  area  of  security,  Pakistan  has  sought  closer 
engagement  with  Afghanistan  and  its  international 
partners on real issues that lie beyond polemics. We need 
further  consolidation  of  our  security  and  intelligence 
cooperation through the Tripartite Commission, which 
also  includes  the  United  States  and  the  International 
Security Assistance Force.
that  needs 
The interdiction of illegal cross-border movements 
is  vital  to  countering  the  menaces  of  terrorism,  drug 
trafficking  and  commercial  smuggling.  It  is  a  joint 
responsibility 
to  be  discharged  more 
vigorously.  Recently,  Pakistan  further  enhanced  its 
security presence on its side of the international border 
with Afghanistan, through new check-posts and regular 
patrolling.  Our  deployments  along  the  international 
border  far  exceed  the  number  of  international  and 
Afghan forces present on the other side. The presence 
of  security  forces  on  the  Afghan  side  of  the  border 
needs  to  be  enhanced.  Effective  measures  should  be 
in  place  to  prevent  cross-border  attacks  on  our  border 
posts, security patrols and border villages. The leaders 
12-60766
17
A/67/PV.41
of  the  two  countries  have  resolved  to  address  such 
matters  using  appropriate  forums  and  channels.  We 
hope  that  recent  bilateral  commitments  in  that  regard 
will be upheld.
The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is often 
eclipsed by the glare of security and political challenges. 
That is unfortunate, as the country continues to suffer 
from natural calamities, food insecurity and the impact 
of conf lict. We hope that shortfalls in the humanitarian 
aid provided by the United Nations consolidated appeal 
for Afghanistan will be rectified as much as possible, so 
as to limit the negative impact on the most vulnerable 
segments of the population.
is  easing 
In  hosting  more  than  3  million  Afghan  refugees, 
Pakistan 
the  humanitarian  burden  on 
Afghanistan  at  considerable  economic  and  social 
cost  to  itself.  During  the  past  10  years,  Pakistan’s 
average annual budget for Afghan refugees has nearly 
doubled.  After  10  years  of  internationally  assisted 
State-building  efforts  in  Afghanistan,  more  refugees 
should  be  repatriated  to  the  country.  Creating  pull-
factors in Afghanistan is part of the Solutions Strategy 
for Afghan Refugees agreed to in Geneva this year. We 
look forward to its smooth implementation.
I will conclude by emphasizing Pakistan’s abiding 
commitment  to  a  peaceful  and  stable  Afghanistan. 
No  country  has  suffered  more  than  Pakistan  from  the 
conf lict  and  instability  in  Afghanistan.  No  country 
stands  to  gain  more  than  Pakistan  from  normalcy  in 
Afghanistan.  We  are  confident  that,  through  unity 
and  genuine  reconciliation,  the  valiant  people  of 
Afghanistan  will  surmount  all  pressing  challenges  to 
usher in a brighter and prosperous future. Pakistan will 
remain their committed and steadfast partner.
Mr. Arias (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): My delegation 
aligns itself with the statement made by the Head of the 
Delegation of the European Union, and I would like to 
add a number of comments in my national capacity.
of 
the 
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
international 
the  eleventh 
anniversary 
community’s 
commitment  to  Afghanistan.  Spain  has  shared  in  that 
commitment since its inception, contributing a sizable 
military and civilian force in an unequivocal desire to 
help stabilize and reconstruct the country. The human 
cost to Spain’s military contingent up to now has been 
high — 98 killed, 13 in action.
Spain  is  currently  the  ninth-largest  contributor 
to  NATO’s  International  Security  Assistance  Force, 
mandated by the Security Council. Right now, there are 
1,500  Spanish  military  personnel,  spread  out  among 
Herat  province,  where  Spain  operates  the  airport, 
Badghis province, which is one of the most inaccessible 
and disadvantaged provinces in the country and where 
the  headquarters  for  Spain’s  provincial  reconstruction 
team is situated in Qala-i-Naw, and Kabul.
initiatives 
Spain  firmly  supports  the  Afghan  Government’s 
military  and  civilian 
the  complex 
transitional  process.  We  are  now  entering  the  final 
phase  of  that  process.  In  order  for  the  transition  to 
be 
international 
community  must  redouble  its  efforts  in  the  coming 
months,  especially 
the  fields  of  governance, 
institution-building and economic development. 
irreversible  and  sustainable, 
in 
in 
the 
In Badghis the transfer of security responsibilities 
to the Afghan authorities is either complete or nearly so 
in  five  of  the province’s  six  districts,  leaving  only  the 
Murghab district, where most of the insurgent activity 
is  concentrated.  We  are  pleased  with  the  progress  of 
the  transition.  Spain  remains  firmly  committed  to 
advising,  training  and  supporting  the  Afghan  security 
forces during the transition and beyond.
As  for  civilian  aspects  of  the  transition,  in 
our  areas  of  operation  we  are  poised  to  transfer  to 
Afghans  the  projects  we  have  developed  in  the  areas 
of sanitation, professional training, agriculture, female 
empowerment  and  water  treatment,  among  others. 
That  transfer  in  the  social  sphere  will  be  carried  out 
in tandem with the transfer in the security sphere. The 
overwhelming  majority  of  those  projects  are  already 
in  the  hands  of  Afghan  personnel,  and  their  transfer 
will be formalized in agreements to be signed with the 
respective Afghan ministries that will take them over. 
The end of the first quarter of 2013 will mark the end of 
the Spanish presence in Afghanistan, after seven years 
of fruitful collaboration. I underline, though, that Spain 
will continue to collaborate on projects in a multilateral 
way,  through  contributions  to  various  international 
agencies.
Despite the difficulties of reconciliation, the recent 
visit by the High Peace Council to Pakistan gives reason 
to hope that dialogue will soon begin to move towards 
a  sustainable,  inclusive  reconciliation  process  that 
bringings together not only armed groups but all sectors 
of Afghan society. Such a process would, and must, be 
18 
12-60766
in  the  spirit  of  the  Afghan  Constitution,  especially  in 
matters  of  human  rights,  particularly  those  of  women 
and children.
The  year  2012  has  been  one  of  significant 
international  milestones  with  regard  to  Afghanistan. 
The  Chicago  NATO  Summit  in  May  saw  agreement 
on  the  strategic  plan  for  Afghanistan,  which  sketched 
a new allied mission after 2014  focused exclusively on 
training. The Summit also generated the general outline 
of  how  the  international  community  could  support 
the  sustainability  of  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces post-2014. The Kabul ministerial conference in 
June  pledged  that  the  Istanbul  Process  —  the  goal  of 
which is to promote regional cooperation and security 
and  to  achieve  peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  in 
a  regional  environment  conducive  to  security  and 
prosperity  —  would  be  steadfastly  urged  forward.  
Finally,  at  the  Tokyo  Conference  on  Afghanistan  in 
July, the groundwork was laid for supporting financial 
security, which is clearly necessary in order to sustain 
the  current  democratic  regime.  For  its  part,  the 
Government of Afghanistan renewed its commitments 
in  the  areas  of  governance,  development,  the  rule  of 
law, human rights and the fight against corruption.
The presidential elections scheduled for April 2014 
will be a rigorous test of logistical organization, as we 
all know. The international community should provide 
all  possible  support  to  Afghanistan,  which,  in  turn, 
must  ensure  the  holding  of  inclusive,  transparent  and 
democratic  elections  with  whose  outcome  the  Afghan 
people  can  fully  identify.  The  work  and  assistance  of 
the United Nations will be of paramount importance in 
those elections.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  underscore  the  great 
importance  that  Spain  attaches  to  the  role  that  the 
European Union can play in providing assistance to the 
Afghan  authorities  in  capacity-building  in  areas  such 
as  governance,  transparency,  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
training of Government, police and judicial officials and 
those  related  to  the  country’s  general  socioeconomic 
development.
For  all  those  reasons,  Spain  fully  supports  the 
ongoing  negotiation  of  an  ambitious  partnership  and 
development  cooperation  agreement  between 
the 
European  Union  and  the  Afghan  Government.  That 
agreement  will  undoubtedly  guide  relations  between 
the two parties in the coming years.
A/67/PV.41
Mr. Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
endorses  the  statement  made  earlier  this  morning 
by  the  representative  of  Tajikistan  on  behalf  of  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization.  China  welcomes 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  situation 
in  Afghanistan  (A/67/354).  China  also  hopes  that  the 
relevant draft resolution (A/67/L.16) will once again be 
adopted by consensus.
In  recent  years,  with  the  help  of  the  international 
community  and  thanks  to  the  tireless  efforts  of 
the  Afghan  people,  the  peaceful  reconstruction  of 
Afghanistan  has  seen  progress.  The  achievements  in 
the  political,  economic,  social  and  development  areas 
of the country are recognized by all. With the effective 
strengthening of the Afghan National Security Forces, 
a good basis has been established for the full handover 
of security responsibilities.
China  firmly  supports  the  efforts  of  Afghanistan 
to maintain its national sovereignty, independence and 
territorial  integrity  and  to  achieve  lasting  peace  and 
stability.  We  welcome  the  achievements  of  the  people 
and  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  all  areas.  The 
Afghan peace process is now at a crucial juncture. The 
establishment  of  a  peaceful,  stable,  independent  and 
developed Afghanistan in the future requires the joint 
efforts of that country and the international community.
China  supports  the  leading  role  of  the  United 
Nations in coordinating international efforts to resolve 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  We  hope  that  the  United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission 
in  Afghanistan  will 
continue to strengthen its cooperation and coordination 
with the Government of Afghanistan. In that connection, 
I would like to underscore the following four points. 
First,  efforts  to  achieve  peace,  stability  and 
development  in  Afghanistan  must  be  fully  owned  and 
led  by  the  Afghan  people.  We  support  steps  by  the 
Afghan Government to strengthen its capacity-building. 
While observing full respect for Afghanistan’s national 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity, 
the  international  community  must  support  the  efforts 
of  that  country  to  increase  its  capacity-building  and 
improve  its  governance  in  order  to  meet  the  objective 
of  an  Afghanistan  governed  by  Afghans  as  soon  as 
possible.
the 
Secondly, 
reconstruction  of  Afghanistan 
must  continue  and  progress  in  its  political  process,  
and  economic  development,  security,  stability  and 
national  reconciliation  must  be  ensured.  It  is  crucial 
12-60766
19
A/67/PV.41
that the upcoming general election go ahead smoothly. 
China  welcomes  the  preparations  in  that  regard  by 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan.  We  support  the 
leading  role  of  the  Afghan  Government  in  the  peace 
and  reconciliation  process.  The  transfer  of  security 
responsibilities to the Afghan security forces must take 
place in a gradual and orderly manner and with the goal 
of ensuring peace and stability in Afghanistan.
Thirdly, the reconstruction of Afghanistan requires 
the  international  community’s  ongoing  support  and 
assistance. The international community must meet its 
commitments to assist the socioeconomic development 
of that country by turning the $16 billion pledged into 
concrete actions. That assistance must fully respect the 
priority  areas  identified  by  the  Afghan  Government 
and  must  support  full  implementation  of  the  national 
development strategy.
Fourthly,  the  Chinese  Government  fully  supports 
the establishment of friendly relations with countries in 
the region on the basis of the principles of mutual respect, 
equality and mutual benefit. At the June summit of the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  in  Beijing, 
the  Afghan  issue  was  discussed  and  Afghanistan  was 
granted SCO observer status.
China is carefully following the developing situation 
in  Afghanistan.  We  have  always  actively  participated 
in the development process of the country. We support 
Afghanistan’s  efforts  to  achieve  its  development,  to 
improve  the  well-being  of  its  people  and  to  ensure  its 
peaceful reconstruction in line with the Kabul process. 
China  will  continue  to  support  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan as far as possible. 
China  and  Afghanistan  are  friendly  neighbours. 
The  Chinese  people  have  strong  friendly  sentiments 
towards  the  people  of  Afghanistan.  China  sincerely 
hopes  that  Afghanistan  will  soon  achieve  peace, 
stability,  independence  and  development.  China  is 
ready  to  work  with  the  international  community  and 
to make its own contribution in order to achieve those 
goals.
Mr.  Abdrabbo  (Egypt)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I 
would  like  to  extend  our  thanks  to  Mr.  Ján  Kubiš, 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Afghanistan,  for  his  efforts,  as  well  as  those  of  his 
team,  in  the  past  years  to  achieve  greater  stability  in 
Afghanistan. 
Egypt  stresses  that  stability  in  Afghanistan  has  a 
direct  and  positive  impact  on  international  peace  and 
security  in  its  immediate  geographic  surroundings, 
as  well  as  regionally  and 
internationally.  From 
that  perspective,  Egypt  supports  the  efforts  of  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  to  exercise  full  control 
over its entire territory by 2014 — the deadline for the 
departure from Afghanistan of the international forces. 
Egypt  is  certain  that  the  active  and  ongoing  bilateral 
cooperation between the two countries to enhance the 
civilian  capacities  of  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
will help accomplish that goal.
Egypt  underscores  the  importance  of  national 
Afghan  ownership  of  all  programmes  established  to 
enhance  its  capacities,  with  particular  emphasis  on 
those that affect the daily lives of Afghan citizens, given 
that  such  programmes  will  enable  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan  to  undertake  all  tasks  entrusted  to  it 
by  the  end  of  2014.  Increasing  national  ownership  by 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  of  those  programmes 
will enable the Afghan people to reap the dividends of 
peace,  security  and  stability  after  decades  of  conf lict 
and  suffering.  Taking  a  long-term  approach  will  help 
achieve sustainable development in Afghanistan, which 
is  the  best  means  for  achieving  social  stability  in  the 
country.
Egypt  supports  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  to  help  the  Government  of  Afghanistan, 
especially  the  international  conferences  held  during 
the  past  year  aimed  at  intensifying  cooperation  and 
communication among Afghanistan and its neighbours 
and  to  raise  the  necessary  international  support  and 
funding  for  building  the  capabilities  of  the  Afghan 
National Security Forces so that they can extend their 
control over the whole of the country’s territory. Egypt 
reiterates  that  it  is  crucial  that  Afghanistan’s  national 
reconciliation  process  be  inclusive  of  all  tribes  and 
factions. As such, the Afghan experience in reconciling 
disparate  social  elements  could  be  held  up  as  a  role 
model  of  the  ability  of  different  factions  and  tribes 
to  live  together,  putting  the  national  interests  of  their 
country above other considerations.
In  conclusion,  the  problems  that  face  Afghanistan 
are deeply rooted. The experience of past years proves 
that finding solutions to those problems will require a 
collective international effort enlisting the participation 
of all countries. We look forward to a prosperous future 
for  Afghanistan,  based  on  democracy,  pluralism  and 
safeguarded  human  rights  for  the  Afghan  citizens, 
who  have  struggled  to  achieve  stability,  security  and 
improved living conditions.
20 
12-60766
A/67/PV.41
Mr.  Al  Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like  to  start  by  expressing  our  appreciation  for  the 
convening  of  this  discussion  on  a  subject  of  great 
significance to us, our region and the world. Let me also 
convey  a  warm  welcome  to  Special  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General Ján Kubiš. We thank him for his 
work as Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in Afghanistan (UNAMA). We also thank the Secretary-
General for his comprehensive report detailing the work 
of UNAMA and offering his analysis of the situation in 
Afghanistan (A/67/354). I also express my thanks to the 
German delegation for coordinating and facilitating the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  that  have  led  us  to  the 
annual draft resolution on the situation in Afghanistan 
(A/66/L.16).
There  were  significant  political  developments 
in  Afghanistan  during  the  past  year.  One  important 
political  development  is  the  gradual  drawdown  of 
foreign  forces.  As  foreign  forces  prepare  to  withdraw 
from Afghanistan by the end of 2014, our efforts should 
focus on providing assistance and helping Afghanistan 
in  its  Afghan-led  transition  to  a  stable  country.  We 
need  concerted  international  and  regional  support 
aimed  at  laying  the  foundations  for  sustainable  peace 
and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  Progress  on  security 
and  development  is  the  key  for  peace,  progress  and 
stability in Afghanistan. Economic cooperation should 
be speeded up, along with political, security and other 
confidence-building measures, in order to ensure peace 
and stability for Afghanistan, and thereby for the entire 
region.
The  withdrawal  of  foreign  military  forces  from 
Afghanistan  should  be  genuine.  Obviously, 
the 
experience  of  the  recent  decades  of  foreign  military 
presence in Afghanistan has taught the lesson that the 
conf lict in Afghanistan cannot be resolved by military 
means.  The  continued  presence  of  military  forces, 
under  any  excuse  or  pretext,  would  only  add  to  the 
instability  and  violence.  The  violence  in  Afghanistan 
has  had  a  drastic  effect  on  the  security  and  well-
being  of  its  citizens.  The  violence  is  not  caused  just 
by  armed  extremists,  inasmuch  as  a  growing  number 
of  civilian  casualties 
in  Afghanistan  have  been 
caused  by  NATO  operations.  All  sides  should  strictly 
abide  by  international  humanitarian  law  and  relevant 
international law, so as to effectively protect civilians. 
Afghanistan  is  passing  through  an  important  phase 
in  its  history.  The  Afghan  people  are  inspired  by  the 
prospect  of  a  future  free  from  violence  and  war.  The 
nation deserves our help as it seeks to take full charge 
of its destiny.
Another  challenge  for  Afghanistan  is  the  increase 
in  the  cultivation  of  narcotic  drugs.  According  to  the 
Afghanistan  Opium  Survey  2012,  released  in  early 
November  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and  Crime  (UNODC),  total  opium  poppy  cultivation 
has  increased  by  18  per  cent  and  now  covers  154,000 
hectares,  up  from  131,000  hectares  in  2011.  UNODC 
warns  that  the  rise  in  cultivation  has  occurred  despite 
the  Afghan  Government’s  latest  increase  in  efforts 
to  destroy  poppy  fields  and  to  help  farmers  find 
alternative  sources  of  income.  At  the  same  time,  the 
report  indicates  that  prices  for  opium  have  remained 
relatively high throughout 2012, at $196 per kilogram. 
That provides a strong incentive for farmers to expand 
their poppy cultivation. 
is  needed 
The  Survey  sends  a  strong  message  that  the 
international  community  cannot  afford  to  remain 
complacent  in  the  face  of  the  problem.  A  strong 
commitment 
from  both  Afghan  and 
international  partners  to  curb  the  menace  of  drug 
cultivation and drug trafficking, which breed extremism. 
In  that  regard,  we  commend  initiatives  to  fight  drugs 
and the help in that fight offered by the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime. We welcomed the triangular 
initiative  among  Afghanistan,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran and Pakistan within the framework of the region’s 
counter-narcotics  efforts.  We  also  welcomed 
the 
regional  ministerial  conference  on  counter-narcotics 
held in Islamabad on 12 and 13 November, which aimed 
at enhancing regional cooperation to counter narcotics. 
Taking  those  efforts  into  account,  what  remains  is  to 
implement  measures  to  alleviate  the  serious  concerns 
of neighbouring countries, transit countries of the drug 
traffic and countries of destination.
The issue of refugees is also a challenge, not only 
for  Afghanistan  but  also  for  neighbouring  States  and 
the  international  community.  Additional  efforts  must 
be undertaken in order to repatriate refugees and ensure 
that  they  are  reintegrated  into  Afghan  society.  In  that 
regard,  we  welcomed  the  International  Conference  on 
the  Solutions  Strategy  for  Afghan  Refugees  held  in 
Geneva  in  May  and  the  joint  communiqué  it  issued, 
aimed  at  the  increased  sustainability  of  returns  and 
continued support for host countries. 
At  present,  more  than  1  million  Afghan  refugees 
are  registered  in  Iran,  while  an  even  greater  number 
12-60766
21
A/67/PV.41
of unregistered Afghans are also living in our country. 
Afghan  nationals  have  continued  to  enjoy  Iran’s 
educational  and  welfare  facilities,  among  others, 
and  to  benefit  from  the  same  subsidies  that  our  own 
people  receive.  We  once  again  urge  the  international 
community  to  continue  to  strengthen  and  expedite  its 
efforts to create conditions conducive to the sustainable 
repatriation of refugees and their full rehabilitation and 
reintegration in their homeland. 
The  Istanbul  Conference  and  the  recent  series 
of  high-level  meetings  have  strengthened  the  long-
term  partnership  between  Afghanistan  and 
its 
neighbours,  as  well  as  with  its  international  partners. 
The  process  was  further  crystallized  at  the  Heart  of 
Asia  Ministerial  Conference  in  Kabul  in  June,  which 
set  confidence-building  measures  as  a  priority.  The 
meetings  provided  an  opportunity  to  exchange  views 
on  how  to  move  forward  with  regard  to  establishing 
a  stable  and  prosperous  Afghanistan.  We  hope  that 
the  confidence-building  mechanism  devised  at  the 
Conference  and  its  follow-up  meetings  will  promote 
results-oriented  cooperation  among  all  the  countries 
of  the  region,  aimed  at  developing  Afghanistan’s 
infrastructure  in  line  with  the  wishes  of  its  people, 
and  paving  the  way  for  their  long-cherished  goal  of 
achieving self-reliance and greater economic prosperity 
for Afghanistan. The United Nations has a key role in 
coordinating  international  and  regional  efforts  in  that 
regard and enjoys our full support.
We  believe  that  capacity-building  for  Afghan 
institutions  must  remain  at  the  heart  of  international 
efforts aimed at enabling the Government of Afghanistan 
to  exercise  its  sovereign  authority  in  all  its  functions. 
We  are  confident  that  more  coherent  and  coordinated 
regional efforts, and the fulfilment of their obligations 
by 
to 
ensuring  Afghanistan’s  sustainable  development  and 
its  people’s  prosperity.  Building  a  sustainable,  stable 
nation is crucial, not only for the future of the Afghan 
people  but  also  for  peace  and  stability  in  the  region, 
Asia and the world.
international  stakeholders,  will  contribute 
independence  and 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  always  firmly 
supported  Afghanistan  in  its  efforts  to  maintain  its 
national  sovereignty, 
territorial 
integrity  and  to  realize  enduring  peace  and  stability. 
We hope that the international community will adhere 
to  the  principle  of  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned 
process and continue to support the Government and the 
people of Afghanistan in their efforts to achieve peace 
and reconstruction and to realize, at an early date, the 
objective of an Afghanistan governed by Afghans.
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  Slovakia 
is  pleased 
to  be  one  of  the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/67/L.16).  We  thank 
Germany  for  steering  the  negotiations  and  facilitating 
a consensus on the draft resolution, which we hope we 
will adopt shortly. In our view, it represents a renewed 
message  of  encouragement  for  the  Afghan  authorities 
and people, as well as a commitment on the part of the 
international community. The text covers every aspect 
of  the  country’s  achievements,  while  acknowledging 
the challenges that still remain.
Slovakia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
earlier  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  I  would  also 
like  to  highlight  some  aspects  of  the  issue  that  are 
particularly important to my country.
Afghanistan  remains  a  top  operational  priority 
for  the  Slovak  Republic.  Our  troops  will  continue  to 
be deployed there for as long as the situation requires. 
In  order  to  help  build  up  Afghan  security  forces,  the 
National  Council  of  the  Slovak  Republic  has  enacted 
a  new  mandate  extending  our  contribution  to  the 
International Security Assistance Force until 2014. We 
are  also  changing  the  makeup  of  our  forces  to  better 
react  to  and  ref lect  the  evolving  situation.  We  are 
reducing  our  engineering  and  guard  capabilities  and 
deploying  a  greater  number  of  instructors,  mentors 
and special forces. The main focus of the changes is on 
the building and deployment by May 2014 of a special 
operations  task  group,  which  will  advise  the  Afghan 
army and police.
We  also  need  to  continue  to  build  functional  and 
credible  Afghan  National  Security  Forces.  Now  that 
the  National  Security  Forces  have  almost  reached  the 
anticipated  numbers,  it  is  crucial  to  focus  on  their 
quality.  As  we  see  it,  the  main  challenge  is  insider 
attacks,  which  have  multiple  negative  effects  on  the 
overall  situation.  The  Slovak  Republic  is  ready  to 
consider  the  possibility  of  sending  civilian  experts 
to  the  region  if  required.  Our  national  legislation  on 
the  subject,  which  would  allow  civilian  experts  to  be 
sent  to  participate  in  international  crisis  management 
activities  outside  the  territory  of  the  Slovak  Republic, 
came into force this year.
Apart  from  our  engagement  in  the  area  of  peace 
and  security,  we  are  expanding  all  the  components  of 
our  comprehensive  assistance  to  Afghanistan,  which 
22 
12-60766
is  among  the  top  three  priority  country  programmes 
for Slovak official development assistance. For a more 
objective  picture,  the  amount  of  our  aid  should  be 
compared to the size of our country.
We  are  aware  that  Afghanistan  will  need  help 
from  the  international  community  even  after  2014. 
There  has  rightly  been  a  focus  on  working  on  longer-
term plans, and commitments are in place to help build 
Afghanistan’s  political,  security  and  development 
self-sufficiency.  To  mention  some  examples  of  Slovak 
engagement, since 2004 we have approved 22 projects 
for  Afghanistan,  aimed  at  building  schools  in  rural 
areas,  providing  education  for  girls  and  women,  and 
supporting  small  enterprises,  local  TV  broadcasting, 
capacity-building and civil society.
The Government of the Slovak Republic has already 
approved full debt relief for Afghanistan, and is ready 
to  fulfil  the  pledge  it  made  at  the  Tokyo  Conference 
earlier this year, which it has since reiterated on several 
occasions  through  bilateral  channels.  We  are  ready  to 
maintain  the  levels  and  modalities  of  our  assistance 
in  years  to  come  while  concentrating  on  the  sectors 
of  health  care,  rural  and  socioeconomic  development 
and  building  civil  society  and  security  institutions. 
We believe that through targeted projects that are well 
coordinated and in line with the Afghan Government’s 
priorities we can improve the daily lives of the Afghan 
people. Step by step, we can help to reach our common 
goal of a secure, stable and prosperous country.
In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity 
to  express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General and his Special Representative, Mr. Kubiš, for 
the dedicated and outstanding work being carried out by 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. 
We  encourage  the  Afghan  people  and  Government 
to  strengthen  their  relations  with  the  United  Nations 
and  to  use  the  opportunity  for  cooperation  with  the 
Organization  to  its  full  potential.  We  believe  that 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  remains  one  of 
the  key  factors  in  promoting  peace  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan.
Mr. Husain (Canada) (spoke in French): Canada is 
pleased to be a sponsor of the draft resolution introduced 
today on the situation in Afghanistan (A/67/L.16), and 
we  thank  the  German  delegation  for  coordinating  the 
process.
The  past  year  was  particularly  important  for 
Afghanistan’s  transition.  The  conferences  that  have 
A/67/PV.41
been  held  in  Istanbul,  Bonn,  Kabul,  Chicago  and 
Tokyo  have  enabled  the  international  community  to 
demonstrate  its  commitment  to  ensuring  the  security, 
stability  and  long-term  development  of  a  democratic 
Afghanistan.  For  its  part,  the  Afghan  Government  is 
committed  to  enhancing  transparency,  responsibility 
and respect for human rights and the rule of law. This 
year’s  draft  resolution  reiterates  and  further  enhances 
those  mutual  commitments.  We  are  encouraged  to 
see  that  it  is  once  again  to  be  adopted  by  consensus. 
That  consensus  is  of  particular  importance  during  the 
transitional  phase,  whose  success  depends  upon  the 
cooperation and support of all partners in Afghanistan. 
This  year’s  draft  resolution  recognizes  the  role 
that the regional community plays in the transition and 
calls  upon  Afghanistan’s  neighbours  to  increase  their 
cooperation in order to combat the Taliban. Paragraph 
83  refers  in  particular  to  the  critical  role  that  regional 
cooperation plays in ensuring peace, security, stability 
and  socioeconomic  development 
in  Afghanistan, 
while  paragraph  85  recognizes  the  important  need  to 
strengthen trust and cooperation between Afghanistan, 
neighbouring  countries  and  regional  partners  so  that, 
together,  they  can  combat  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida  and 
other  extremist  groups,  including  the  Islamic  Emirate 
of Afghanistan, the Taliban, Al-Qaida, the Quetta and 
Peshawar Shuras and the Haqqani network.
(spoke in English)
That  language  makes  clear  the  critical  role  that 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours  play  in  the  stability  and 
long-term prosperity of the country. Indeed, those who 
do  not  support  stability  in  Afghanistan  are  working 
against  the  interests  of  peace  and  freedom,  and  may 
also be in contravention of Security Council resolution 
1368  (2001).  Canada  also  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  holding  free  and  fair  elections  in  Afghanistan.  We 
recognize  that  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  has 
already  taken  steps  to  reform  its  electoral  system, 
in  the  hope  of  ensuring  that  future  elections  will  be 
democratic,  transparent,  credible  and  inclusive.  Yet 
more must be done.
We  urge 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
to 
take  immediate  action  to  continue  to  strengthen  its 
electoral laws and processes in order to ensure that the 
irregularities and attempted fraud that took place in its 
most recent presidential and parliamentary elections do 
not  recur.  We  also  urge  the  international  community 
and donors in Afghanistan to work actively to prevent 
12-60766
23
A/67/PV.41
fraud  before,  during  and  after  the  elections.  That  will 
help ensure that the people of Afghanistan have a voice 
in the future of their country and that indecision does 
not prevent the Afghan Government from meeting the 
demands  of  civil  society  and  of  legitimate  political 
actors.
that 
reiterates 
is  delivered 
Transparency  and  accountability  will  be  essential 
as  we  move  towards  transition,  so  as  to  ensure  that 
responsibly, 
international  assistance 
efficiently  and  effectively.  Canada 
its 
expectation 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
will  demonstrate  tangible  results  with  the  assistance 
provided by the international community. Specifically, 
Afghanistan must follow through on the commitments 
it made during the Tokyo Conference on Afghanistan to 
combat corruption and increase transparency in order to 
establish more effective and accountable administration 
at the national, provincial and local levels.
Ms. Murmokaite (Lithuania): I would like to thank 
the Secretary-General for his regular critical reporting 
on the situation in Afghanistan. I also thank Germany 
and the sponsors of draft resolution A/67/L.16. We look 
forward to its adoption by consensus.
Let  me  reiterate  how  much  importance  we  attach 
to  the  United  Nations  efforts  in  Afghanistan.  Given 
the  reconfiguration  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan and the decrease in resources, a 
continued debate on the role and responsibilities of the 
United Nations in Afghanistan is necessary. 
We  welcome  the  further  consolidation  of  the 
commitments to partnership and mutual accountability 
made by the Afghan Government and the international 
community  at  the  Tokyo  Conference  on  Afghanistan. 
In  Tokyo,  Lithuania  reconfirmed  its  commitment 
to  continue  political  support  for,  and  assistance  to, 
Afghanistan in the run-up to 2014 and beyond. Over the 
past seven years, Lithuania has provided approximately 
€4.5 million in funding for a wide range of projects. We 
are  determined  to  keep  our  development  assistance  at 
the  current  level  and  to  support  civilian  and  military 
capacity-building  efforts  after  the  transition  has  been 
completed.  Education,  health  care,  good  governance 
and  the  rule  of  law  are  some  of  the  areas  in  which 
the  Afghan  Government  has  achieved  considerable 
progress  and  which  remain  critical  for  the  future  of 
the country. We will continue to work with the Afghan 
authorities  to  build  administrative  capacities,  promote 
rural development, support women’s empowerment and 
strengthen civil society.
My  country  is  also  determined  to  maintain  strong 
support  for  the  reform  and  further  development  of 
a  sustainable  civilian  police  force  and  rule-of-law 
institutions through the European Union Police Mission 
in Afghanistan. Lithuania has been contributing to that 
Mission and will continue to do so. The Mission, which 
is  fully  integrated  into  the  wider  international  efforts 
to reform the Afghan national police, has been working 
closely  to  that  end  with  key  partners,  including  the 
United  Nations.  Our  goal  is  make  sure  that  its  efforts 
deliver  substantial  results  in  the  country’s  provinces. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces  are  capable  of  maintaining  security  in  their 
country, as it is their responsibility and their right to do.
Since 2010, Lithuania has focused on training and 
providing  assistance  to  Afghan  provincial  security 
forces.  In  line  with  the  objective  of  handing  over  full 
responsibility  for  security  to  Afghans  by  the  end  of 
2014, my country will continue to support Afghanistan 
on  its  path  towards  self-reliance  and  security.  In 
that  regard,  our  Government  has  decided  to  allocate 
$500,000  annually  to  supporting  the  Afghan  National 
Security Forces for a period of three years, from 2015 
to 2017.
Afghanistan  must  maintain  the  pace  of  reforms. 
The  development  and  smooth 
implementation  of 
national  priority  programmes,  improved  transparency 
and  accountability,  the  fight  against  corruption,  and 
respect for human rights — in particular the rights and 
empowerment  of  women —  remain  essential  elements 
if international assistance and domestic transformation 
efforts  are  to  succeed.  Prosperity  and  security  grow 
when neighbours trust each other. Lithuania encourages 
Afghan  efforts  to  foster  international  cooperation 
through the Afghan-led Istanbul Process. In September 
2012,  my  country  hosted  an  international  conference 
under the theme “Afghanistan and the region: practical 
approaches for sustainable development,” which brought 
together  high-level  participants  from  Afghanistan, 
Central and South Asia and the Nordic/Baltic region. 
The  conference  was  an  opportunity  to  share  best 
practices and successful examples of regional integration 
and  cooperation.  One  of  the  conclusions  drawn  by 
participants  in  the  conference  was  that  free-trade 
agreements were essential between Afghanistan and its 
closest  neighbours.  Gains  in  education  at  the  national 
level  could  be  further  supported  through  a  regional 
24 
12-60766
network of universities. Regional projects in the areas 
of  energy,  communications,  border  management,  the 
environment and other spheres would bind communities 
and  people  together.  Free  media  also  remain  essential 
for fostering understanding and a sense of community. 
Political dialogue must be driven by the future agenda 
rather than past history.
In conclusion, our commitment to Afghanistan and 
our  support  for  that  country’s  stability,  security  and 
development remains firm now and will continue to be 
so after the transition period. 
Mr.  Hardeep  Singh  Puri (India):  At  the  outset, 
I  would  like  to  express  India’s  appreciation  to  the 
President  for  scheduling  this  discussion.  I  also  avail 
myself  of  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  German 
delegation  for  coordinating 
intergovernmental 
negotiations in an excellent manner, which has brought 
us  the  annual  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan. As we have for the past several years, we 
are happy to sponsor draft resolution A/67/L.16, which 
has traditionally been adopted by consensus.
the 
Major  international  and  regional  conferences  on 
Afghanistan  were  held  during  the  past  year  against 
the  backdrop  of  the  ongoing  security  transition.  The 
international  community  renewed  its  commitment  to 
peace,  security  and  development  in  Afghanistan  at 
conferences in Bonn, Chicago and Tokyo, as well as at 
the regional level in Istanbul and Kabul.
As the Afghan Government assumes responsibility 
for security and governance, with the drawdown of the 
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) by the 
end  of  2014,  we  welcome  the  pledges  of  $16  billion in 
financial aid through 2015 that were made at the Tokyo 
Conference on Afghanistan, as well as the commitment 
to  sustain  support  through  2017  at,  or  near,  the  levels 
of the past decade. At the same time, we are conscious 
that  those  figures  represent  the  baseline,  or  minimum 
requirement, for Afghanistan to sustain itself.
The  Delhi  Investment  Summit  of  28  June,  hosted 
by India, was an important endeavour in directing the 
focus  of  regional  and  international  attention  towards 
investing  in  Afghanistan  and  its  potential  to  provide 
economic  development  and  stability  to  Afghanistan 
during the transition period.
Amid the drawdown of ISAF and the accompanying 
economic  downturn,  it  is  indeed  worrisome  that  the 
infrastructure of terror is still intact in the region. The 
Secretary-General’s latest report notes: 
A/67/PV.41
“Little has changed in the underlying dynamics 
to  mitigate  a  deep-seated  cycle  of  conﬂ ict. 
Furthermore,  a  diminished  international  presence 
will have a signiﬁ cant ﬁ nancial impact in many areas 
that, at least in the short term, may even exacerbate 
predatory behaviour”. (A/67/354, para. 62)

Afghanistan continues to face an existential threat 
from terrorism, which draws upon ideological, financial 
and  logistical  support  from  beyond  its  borders.  The 
security  situation  remains  fragile,  and  there  has  been 
a sharp increase in the variety, spread and intensity of 
attacks by the Taliban and their backers. Moreover, the 
cross-border shelling of the past few months has caused 
large-scale  disruptions  to  normal  life  and  has  sparked 
public outrage. The Afghan National Security Forces are 
ill-equipped to repel that challenge without substantial 
assistance from the international community. We need 
concerted  action  to  isolate  and  root  out  the  syndicate 
of  terrorism,  which  includes  elements  of  Al-Qaida, 
the  Taliban,  Lashkar-e-Taiba  and  other  terrorist  and 
extremist groups. 
international  efforts 
As Afghanistan takes forward the task of national 
reconciliation, in accordance with the criteria laid down 
in  the  Kabul  Communiqué,  we  fully  support  regional 
confidence-building  efforts  as  a  critical  component 
of 
the  country. 
Regional  cooperation  and  connectivity  are  critical  for 
Afghanistan’s  political  and  economic  progress.  The 
Istanbul Heart of Asia Process is an important step in 
that direction. To strengthen that cooperation, India has 
taken the lead in two commercial confidence-building 
measures under the Istanbul Process.
to  support 
We are fully cognizant that the economic viability 
of  Afghanistan  depends  on  its  fuller  integration  into 
its  neighbourhood  so  that  it  can  regain  its  historical 
role  as  a  land  bridge  between  South  Asia,  Central 
Asia,  the  Middle  East  and  Eurasia.  The  development 
of  transport  infrastructure  and  transit  arrangements 
linking Afghanistan to the north, south, east and west, 
including  through  the  Chabahar  port,  would  benefit 
not  only  Afghanistan  but  also  the  entire  Central 
Asian  region  by  creating  trade,  transit  and  investment 
linkages.
Afghanistan  and  India  have  a  long  shared  history 
going  back  over  millennia.  The  two  countries  are 
natural strategic partners by virtue of geography and a 
common vision of peace and cooperation in the region. 
Our  bilateral  relationship  is  extensive,  multifaceted 
and  characterized  by  high-level  interaction.  President 
12-60766
25
A/67/PV.41
Karzai  visited  India  earlier  this  month.  That  visit 
offered  an  opportunity  to  review  the  entire  gamut  of 
the  bilateral  relationship  and  to  discuss  regional  and 
international issues of mutual interest. During the visit, 
Prime  Minister  Manmohan  Singh  reiterated  India’s 
support  for  Afghanistan  during  the  crucial  period  of 
transition up to the end of 2014 and thereafter. 
The  implementation  of  the  strategic  partnership 
agreement of October 2011 between the two countries 
has  already  been  set  in  motion  with  the  convening  of 
the first meeting of the Partnership Council on 1 May. 
During the past decade, India pledged up to $2 billion 
in  development  and  humanitarian  assistance.  We  have 
managed to carry out some of the most economical and 
cost-effective projects in Afghanistan. The $500 million 
assistance announced by the Prime Minister of India in 
May 2011 is being spent from 2012 to 2015. The projects 
under  consideration  will  be  in  line  with  the  projects 
suggested  under  the  national  priority  programmes  of 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan.  The  pace  and  nature 
of the utilization of present and future Indian assistance 
will be determined by the preference, comfort level and 
absorptive capacity of the Afghan Government.
India  remains  unwavering  in  its  commitment  to 
assist  the  people  of  Afghanistan  in  their  endeavour  to 
build  a  peaceful,  stable,  democratic  and  prosperous 
nation. We  support  the  good  work  done  by  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). 
It is important that amid the cutback in United Nations 
footprint  in  Afghanistan  and  the  reconfiguration  of 
UNAMA  due  to  budgetary  constraints,  all  efforts 
should  be  made  to  avoid  an  adverse  impact  on  its 
operational effectiveness. 
Moving  forward,  we  need  to  create  an  enabling 
environment  in  which  the  Afghan  people  can  live  in 
peace and security and decide their future themselves, 
without outside interference, coercion or intimidation. 
The  international  community  must  continue  to  work 
with renewed vigour and unity of purpose to strengthen 
the  efforts  of  the  Afghan  Government  in  seeking 
solutions  that  are  inclusive  and  are  led  by  the  Afghan 
people themselves.
Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, the 
participating  members  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  and  other  international  agencies,  as 
well as civil society, all of whom are playing vital roles 
in  building  a  peaceful  and  democratic  Afghanistan. 
Over  the  course  of  2012,  the  partnership  between 
the  international  community  and  Afghanistan  has 
further  strengthened,  while  the  Afghan  Government’s 
ownership and its growing role in security and economic 
planning have been steadily increasing. 
The  international  community  has  demonstrated 
its renewed commitment to the Afghan people beyond 
2014.  At  the  Chicago  Summit  in  May  and  the  Tokyo 
Conference  in  July,  the  international  community  took 
steps  to  provide  long-term  financial  support  to  the 
Afghan  people  in  their  efforts  to  establish  sustainable 
peace and security and to rebuild their country.
For  its  part,  the  Afghan  Government  committed 
itself to achieving more efficiency and transparency in 
its  governance  at  the  Tokyo  Conference.  Efforts  have 
also  been  made  over  the  past  months  to  enhance  its 
security  capability  and  to  formulate  its  development 
strategy. In particular, the Government of the Republic 
of  Korea  welcomes  the  Afghan  presidential  decree 
issued  on  27  July  to  implement  Afghan  commitments 
under the Tokyo Mutual Accountability Framework. It 
is  our  hope  that  concrete  actions  will  be  followed and 
positive changes made on the ground. We also welcome 
the  appointment  of  the  new  Chair  of  the  High  Peace 
Council in April as an important step in the Afghan-led 
and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation process.
As  stated 
in 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report 
(A/67/354),  the  transfer  of  responsibility  for  security 
arrangements  to  the  Afghan  authorities  is  progressing 
as  planned.  As  of  now,  75  per  cent  of  Afghanistan’s 
population lives in areas where the Afghan Government 
takes  the  lead  for  security.  By  mid-2013,  the  Afghan 
forces will take the lead in ensuring security nationwide.
As  we  prepare  for  the  mid-2013  milestone,  closer 
cooperation  between  the  international  community 
and the Afghan Government will become all the more 
important so that the transition process does not hinder 
peace and stability in Afghanistan. In that regard, we are 
deeply concerned about the increasing insider attacks, 
as they could further affect the long-term prospect for 
stability in the country. While the Afghan Government 
should make serious efforts to prevent such attacks, the 
unwavering  support  of  the  international  community 
will be needed more than ever.
At  the  same  time,  political  reform  and  good 
governance  by  the  Afghan  Government  will  continue 
to  remain  vital  to  the  successful  transition.  Building 
regional cooperation will underpin the stability and the 
26 
12-60766
A/67/PV.41
livelihoods  of  the  Afghan  people.  Furthermore,  in  the 
light  of  the  Afghan  presidential  election  to  be  held  in 
2014, it is even more important to make headway in the 
political process.
that  establishes  a  broad  framework  for  bilateral 
cooperation beyond the transition. In July, Afghan and 
Australian  ministers  also  signed  the  Memorandum  of 
Understanding on Development Cooperation. 
The Government of the Republic of Korea has been 
actively  supporting  Afghanistan’s  capacity-building, 
especially  since  setting  up  a  provincial  reconstruction 
team  in  Parwan  province  in  2010.  To  continue  such 
efforts, following last year’s contribution of $50 million 
to  the  Afghan  National  Army  Trust  Fund,  the  Korean 
Government  will  this  year  contribute  an  additional 
$50 million to the Fund, as well as another $50 million 
to the Law and Order Trust Fund for Afghanistan.
Against  that  backdrop,  my  delegation  welcomes 
today’s draft resolution on the situation in Afghanistan 
(A/67/L.16),  which  embodies  the  political  will  of  all 
Member  States  that  support  the  Afghan  people  in 
their  political  and  national  reconstruction  process. 
It  is  in  that  vein  that  the  Republic  of  Korea  joined  in 
sponsoring the draft resolution as a way of underlining 
our  unwavering  support.  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
that  the  Republic  of  Korea  will  remain  committed  to 
working with the Afghan people and their Government, 
as well as with the international community, to build a 
more prosperous, secure and democratic Afghanistan.
Ms.  King  (Australia):  Australia  welcomes  the 
opportunity  to  sponsor  the  General  Assembly’s  draft 
resolution  on  Afghanistan  (A/67/L.16)  again  in  2012. 
This  was  a  crucial  year  for  the  partnership  between 
Afghanistan  and  the  international  community,  during 
to  support 
which  we  made  strong  commitments 
Afghanistan’s 
rests  on 
mutual  assurances  between  the  Afghan  Government 
and  the  international  community  —  that  the  Afghan 
Government will lead its people towards a stable, secure 
and  self-sufficient  State,  and  that  the  international 
community  will  continue  to  support  Afghanistan 
during the transition and beyond.
future.  That  partnership 
As Australian Prime Minister Gillard noted in her 
speech  to  our  Parliament  last  month,  2012  has  seen 
significant  progress  in  planning  beyond  transition, 
with  a  comprehensive  international  framework  for 
supporting  Afghanistan  beyond  2014  now  in  place. 
Australia  too  has  made  significant  commitments  in 
that regard. We have established important agreements 
this year to underpin and strengthen bilateral relations. 
Prime  Minister  Gillard  and  President  Karzai  signed 
a  comprehensive 
in  May 
long-term  partnership 
Australia has increased its ﬁ nancial and development 
assistance  beyond  2014.  Our  development  assistance 
will increase from $165 million to $250 million per year 
by 2015, and we will provide $100 million per year to 
sustain  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  sustainment 
from 2015 to 2017.
Throughout  the  transition  period,  Australia  will 
continue  to  provide  support  to  Afghanistan,  centred 
on  Uruzgan  province,  where  we  lead  the  provincial 
reconstruction team and where, in October, we assumed 
command of the combined team. In the latter framework, 
Australian troops, diplomats and aid workers cooperate 
and work in partnership with their Afghan counterparts 
on a daily basis.
In  2012,  the  Afghan  Government  itself  has  made 
significant  commitments.  The  year  ahead  will  see 
Afghanistan implement reforms to improve governance, 
prepare for the presidential and parliamentary elections 
in  2014  and  2015,  bolster  anti-corruption  efforts  and 
promote  and  protect  human  rights.  We  commend  the 
revitalization of the High Peace Council and its efforts 
to work towards a political solution, including through 
the  Afghanistan  Peace  and  Reintegration  Programme. 
The  international  community,  particularly  the  United 
Nations,  has  a  key  role  to  play  in  supporting  those 
efforts, and the peace process must include all sectors 
of  Afghan  society  and  involve  the  active  participation 
of women.
Australia  welcomes 
the  agreement  between 
Afghanistan and the international community enshrined 
in 
the  Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability  Framework. 
Implementing  those  principles  and  goals  should  guide 
our  partnership  next  year,  in  2014  and  throughout  the 
next decade.
Afghanistan  has  already  shown  demonstrable 
progress.  We  welcome 
the  Independent  Election 
Commission’s  announcement,  endorsed  by  President 
Karzai,  that  the  presidential  election  will  be  held  on 
5  April  2014.  A  credible,  inclusive  and  transparent 
presidential  election  will  be  essential  to  political 
transition in Afghanistan and will mark the significant 
progress made over the last decade.
12-60766
27
A/67/PV.41
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  General  Assembly 
draft resolution before us welcomes the recent progress. 
But  it  also  realistically  highlights  the  challenges  that 
Afghanistan and the international community continue 
to face. At the most fundamental level, we must continue 
to  ensure  that  Afghanistan  will  never  again  become  a 
safe  haven  for  international  terrorism.  We  all  have  a 
stake in preventing the return of international terrorism 
to Afghanistan. 
We also need to continue the fight against narcotics 
and  drug  trafficking.  We  must  persist  in  efforts  to 
promote  regional  cooperation  through  bodies  such  as 
the  Heart  of  Asia  group  of  countries.  And  we  must 
continue to encourage anti-corruption reforms.
Australia welcomes the emphasis placed in the draft 
resolution on support for Afghanistan’s efforts to protect 
human rights, particularly those of women and girls, to 
organize elections and, of course, to provide security to 
the Afghan people. All of those efforts will be Afghan-
led,  and  the  draft  resolution  rightly  emphasizes  that. 
But it also demonstrates the international community’s 
ongoing support for Afghanistan’s own efforts.
The United Nations continues to play a critical role 
in  Afghanistan’s  long-term  development  and  stability. 
We  welcome  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
coordinating  international  efforts  to  support  human 
rights, governance and the rule of law, preparations for 
elections,  humanitarian  assistance,  reintegration  and 
counter-narcotics efforts.
We  again  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s 
assurances  in  his  quarterly  report  (A/67/354)  that, 
despite  the  reconfiguration  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), coupled 
with a significant reduction in its resources, the United 
Nations commitment to Afghanistan remains steadfast. 
Australia  continues  to  strongly  support  UNAMA’s 
mandate.
My  Government 
has  made  Afghanistan’s 
development  and  stability  a  key  priority.  Australia’s 
term  on  the  Security  Council  will  coincide  with  a 
critical  time  of  transition  in  Afghanistan  and  with 
our  continued  efforts  to  implement  a  comprehensive 
framework for Afghanistan’s future. Australia remains 
committed  to  working  with  the  Afghan  Government, 
the Afghan people and international partners to achieve 
the  common  goal  of  a  peaceful,  secure  and  stable 
Afghanistan.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 38. The Assembly 
will now take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.16.
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  since  draft  resolution  A/67/L.16  was  submitted, 
the  following  countries  have  also  become  sponsors: 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia, 
China,  Eritrea,  Greece,  Haiti,  Indonesia,  Malta, 
Micronesia,  Morocco,  New  Zealand,  Palau,  Peru,  the 
Philippines,  Serbia,  Switzerland,  Turkmenistan,  the 
United Kingdom, the United Republic of Tanzania and 
Uzbekistan. 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.16? 
Draft 
(resolution 67/16). 
resolution 
A/67/L.16  was 
adopted 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 38? 
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
28 
12-60766
