United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
9th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 September 2012, 9 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.9
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Salam 
(Lebanon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour 
Hadi Mansour, President of the Republic of Yemen
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of Yemen.
Mr.  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mansour  (spoke  in  Arabic):  To  begin 
with,  I  offer  my  deep  congratulations  to  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to steer its work at its sixty-seventh session. 
We  trust  in  his  capacity  to  ably  manage  the  affairs  of 
the Assembly during this session. I would like also to 
thank  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President  of  
the General Assembly at its previous session, for all of 
his efforts. We also commend Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his 
wise management of the affairs of the United Nations 
and his interest in the developments in my country.
During the past few weeks the Islamic world has 
experienced a wave of outrage and anger as the result of 
a film containing explicit denigrations directed at the 
Muslim Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and 
the values of true Islam. It is deplorable that a campaign 
exists with the aim of deliberately insulting Islam and 
Muslims in order to distort their image worldwide and 
to sow seeds of hatred between nations and religions. 
Yet  given  all  of  that,  such  behaviour  has  attracted 
people who defend the film based on the justification 
of freedom of expression. Those people, however, must 
not overlook the fact that there should be limits on the 
freedom  of  expression,  especially  if  such  freedom  is 
used  to  blaspheme  the  beliefs  of  nations  and  defame 
their religious figures and symbols.
While  my  country  has  strongly  denounced 
the  film,  it  has  also  called  for  respect  for  religions 
and  religious  figures,  enhanced  understanding  and 
dialogue  between  religions  and  civilizations,  and  the 
adoption  of  international  instruments  to  prevent  any 
further similar practice or abuse of the right to freedom 
of expression. My country also calls for adherence to 
peaceful  expressions  of  opinion,  while  denouncing 
violence  and  incitement  to  hatred  that  contradict  the 
values of true Islam.
The current session of the Assembly is being held 
within  the  context  of  important  global  developments 
and  events 
that  are  directly  affecting  political, 
economic, social, security and environmental situations 
in all nations of the world. Those circumstances have 
resulted in various pressures on all international actors 
and  have  destructively  impacted  the  least  developed 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52201 (E)
*1252201*
A/67/PV.9
countries  — 
the 
South — including my country, the Republic of Yemen. 
the  countries  of 
the  so-called 
the 
These  days  we  are  celebrating 
fiftieth 
anniversary of the 26 September 1962 Revolution and 
the  forty-ninth  anniversary  of  the  14  October  1963 
Revolution. I therefore take the opportunity to extend, 
from this international rostrum, my warmest greetings 
and  best  wishes  to  the  great  people  of  Yemen  on  this 
occasion.  No  doubt,  the  50  years  since  the  Yemeni 
revolution  have  contributed  to  sparking  the  Yemeni 
people’s  aspirations  for  change  and  for  freedom, 
equality  and  national  dignity  that  resulted  in  a  new 
reality  where  the  wheel  of  change  continues  to  turn, 
despite all difficulties obstacles and barriers. 
Recently, we experienced the historic achievement 
of a peaceful transfer of power for the first time in the 
country.  That  transition  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  Yemeni  people’s  determination  to  fulfil 
the  goals  of  the  revolution:  freedom,  sovereignty, 
an  end  to  autocratic  and  family  rule  forever,  and  the 
establishment  of  a  republican  regime  governed  by  the 
Constitution  under  a  new  social  contract  between  the 
State and its people.
All  Members  know  that  Yemen  is  one  of  the  so-
called Arab Spring countries. We Yemenis experienced 
a  difficult  situation  for  over  a  year  that  could  have 
led  to  catastrophe.  However,  the  country  avoided  that 
trajectory  because  the  disputing  parties  were  wise 
enough  to  follow  a  role  model  designed  to  reach  an 
agreement. Thus, they accepted the political settlement 
under the initiative of the Cooperation Council for the 
Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) and its implementation 
mechanism, which had become the accepted reference 
for all parties and enjoyed international support. 
Early  presidential  elections  were  conducted 
representing  a  public  referendum  for  change.  The 
referendum granted the new authorities full legitimacy 
to  pursue  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
GCC  initiative  with  a  view  to  steering  the  country 
towards  the  safe  side  and  a  brighter  future  where 
people have faith in their future and can freely and with 
conviction  choose  their  rulers  and  thus  contribute  to 
building the new Yemen.
In  that  respect,  please  allow  me  to  express  my 
gratitude and appreciation to the Custodian of the Two 
Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud 
of  Saudi  Arabia,  the  leaders  of  the  GCC  countries 
and the Secretary General of the GCC, Mr. Abdellatif 
Zayani,  for  all  of  the  various  forms  of  attention  and 
support  they  have  extended  towards  the  political 
settlement of the crisis. 
Thanks also go to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon; 
the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council; 
Mr. Jamal Benomar, Special Adviser of the Secretary-
General  on  Yemen;  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  its 
Secretary  General;  and  the  European  Union  for  all 
of  their  efforts  to  bolster  the  political  settlement  and 
provide  the  necessary  economic  support  to  Yemen  in 
all areas, including for convening the national dialogue 
conference.
The conference will outline the future of Yemen by 
addressing various situations such as conflict, war and 
pending  problems,  including  the  monopoly  of  power 
and  wealth.  The  aim  is  to  build  a  modern  civil  State 
based  on  the  principles  of  the  rule  of  law,  equality, 
inclusion,  equal  opportunity,  the  fair  distribution  of 
wealth, participation in decision-making and managing 
elements  linked  to  the  new  State’s  sovereignty  at  the 
national level under a political regime to be decided by 
the  people  of  Yemen  in  the  awaited  national  dialogue 
conference.  I  stress  that  the  doors  of  the  national 
dialogue  conference  are  open  to  all  Yemeni  parties 
and  all  issues  and  demands.  The  conference  shall  be 
the  means  for  correcting  mistakes,  achieving  national 
reconciliation  and  developing  the  principles  of  a 
modern civil Yemeni State, under a unified Yemen, as 
stipulated by Security Council resolutions. 
The  current  political  arrangements  in  Yemen 
for  the  implementation  of  the  settlement  agreement 
and  resolutions  2014  (2011)  and  2051  (2012)  have  the 
support of the brothers and friends of Yemen. However, 
Yemen  still  faces  many  political,  economic,  security 
and social obstacles and impediments. Those obstacles 
represent  weaknesses  and  jeopardize  the  progress 
and  prosperity  of  Yemen  in  the  coming  decades.  It  is 
a  fact  that  95  per  cent  of  the  Yemeni  people  have  the 
willingness and ambitions to move with the rest of the 
world  into  the  twenty-first  century.  The  political  and 
social  problems  and  the  escalating  political  conflicts, 
anarchy and acts of violence and extremism shall never 
stand  as  obstacles  in  the  way  of  the  Yemeni  people. 
Therefore,  the  right  way  to  address  the  situation  in 
Yemen is to adopt an overarching vision that takes into 
account all circumstances and conditions related to the 
country’s history and geography and the challenges of 
the present and the future. A key factor is the strategic 
location of Yemen at the juncture of trade routes and in 
2 
12-52201
the heart of international sea navigation routes. Yemen 
faces the security challenges of organized crime, piracy 
and  terrorist  acts,  in  addition  to  the  influx  of  illegal 
migrants and refugees to its coasts.
There  is  an  increasing  trend  of  unemployment 
among  young  people  under  30,  who  represent  70  per 
cent  of  the  total  population  of  the  country.  The  youth 
look forward to a better future and a modern civil State. 
That  requires  the  international  community  and  donor 
countries  to  understand  those  factors  and  to  provide 
urgently  needed  support  to  our  country  in  various 
fields, including in the areas of establishing a modern 
civil  State  based  on  democracy,  good  governance, 
respect  for  human  rights  and  social  justice.  There 
is  a  need  to  abandon  the  traditional  standard  and 
bureaucratic  mechanisms  adopted  by  donor  countries 
and  international  parties  supporting  the  path  towards 
settlement in Yemen. 
As  for  us,  we  stand  ready  to  provide  a  favourable 
and  appropriate  atmosphere  for  their  work,  absent  of 
any  complex  Government  bureaucracy,  by  adopting  a 
high level of transparency and removing any obstacles 
they  may  face.  I  confirm  that  it  is  investment  that 
results in stability, and not vice versa.
Terrorists, who have pervaded our country for more 
than 10 years and were recently poised to seize control 
of different Yemeni regions and provinces, represent a 
huge  threat  to  local,  regional  and  international  peace 
and stability. Although, following the heroic acts of the 
Yemeni armed forces and local popular committees and 
a series of defeats, Al-Qaida is today much weaker than 
before, we cannot underestimate its desperation. Due to 
its failure to adapt after its successive defeats, Al-Qaida 
has  equipped  its  members  with  explosive  belts  and 
transformed  them  into  time  bombs  against  innocent 
and  unarmed  people.  That  has  resulted  in  Al-Qaida 
losing any local or national sympathy.
We  reaffirm  our  commitment 
to  eradicating 
terrorist  elements  and  demand  that  its  sources  of 
internal and external support be eliminated. We invite 
our international partners in the fight against terrorism 
to provide more logistical and technical support to our 
security  forces  and  counterterrorism  units,  and  that 
they expand intelligence cooperation and coordination 
in that field.
I cannot pass up the opportunity to draw attention 
to  the  humanitarian  crisis  in  Yemen  as  a  result  of  the 
terrorism and acts of violence in Sadah and the events 
A/67/PV.9
of the past year that have resulted in the displacement 
of  more  than  500,000  people  from  their  villages,  in 
addition  to  the  increasing  number  of  refugees  from 
the Horn of Africa region. That led the United Nations 
and its agencies to launch an appeal for approximately 
$600  million.  However,  the  funding  gap  stands  at 
50  per  cent  of  the  required  amount.  I  therefore  call 
on  brotherly  and  friendly  countries  to  respond  to  the 
appeal  of  the  United  Nations  to  enable  it  to  meet  the 
basic needs of internally displaced persons and refugees 
in our country.
It has been more than six decades since the General 
Assembly,  which  I  have  the  honour  to  address  today, 
issued  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  It 
is  deplorable  that,  after  all  these  years,  many  nations 
still  suffer  violations  of  their  rights  and  dignity.  The 
Palestinian people have been subjected to a gruesome 
escalation  of  Israeli  violence.  Israeli  settlements  are 
expanding, innocent Palestinians are maimed, activists 
are  besieged,  prisoners  and  detainees  are  oppressed 
and  the  attempts  of  the  Israeli  side  to  demolish  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque  are  continuing.  That  requires  a 
stronger role and a more united and effective presence 
of the United Nations and its various agencies against 
Israeli  arrogance  and  flouting  of  the  resolutions  of 
the  international  community  and  its  rejection  of  all 
peaceful proposals and initiatives. 
The 
lack  of 
international  pressure  on  Israel 
represents a key failure in international justice standards. 
The role of the United Nations and international forces 
in achieving justice and freedom requires the exertion 
of  pressure  to  implement  international  resolutions.  In 
that  regard,  I  ask:  has  Israel  forgotten  that  its  State 
was created on the basis of an international resolution? 
We  declare  our  full  support  for  the  application  of  the 
State  of  Palestine  to  become  a  full  State  Member  of 
the  United  Nations  in  order  to  affirm  its  legitimacy 
and  to  ensure  respect  for  its  recognized  rights  under 
international law.
We  also  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  adopt 
appropriate solutions to end the crisis and internal war 
in Syria and to put an end to all forms of violence against 
thousands  of  civilians  in  Syria,  including  women  and 
children. Proposed initiatives and announced peaceful 
solutions  shall  be  revived  to  end  the  crisis  and  to 
make  a  success  of  the  mission  of  the  Joint  Special 
Representative of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi.
12-52201
3
A/67/PV.9
I reiterate the call on all concerned parties in Syria, 
the Government and the insurgents, to heed and respond 
to repeated calls to initiate dialogue and make mutual 
concessions  as  the  only  way  to  stop  the  bloodshed. 
The  only  option  for  our  brothers  in  Syria  is  to  agree 
on an initiative to mark the path towards change and a 
peaceful transfer of power through the ballot box.
There is no doubt that Somalia has been living in 
dire  crisis  since  the  early  1990s.  Yemen  and  Somalia 
have  deep  historical  relations  and  both  provide 
strategic  depth  for  each  other.  On  that  basis,  Yemen 
played  a  leading  role  in  restoring  peace  and  stability 
in  Somalia  by  supporting  the  reconciliation  efforts 
and  hosting  various  rounds  of  negotiations  between 
different parties. Yemen did not stop there; it opened its 
doors to more than a million Somali refugees, despite 
the difficult circumstances Yemen is encountering and 
all  the  economic,  health  and  security  impacts  of  the 
refugee process.
While we congratulate the Somali people on their 
success  on  their  accomplishing  a  peaceful  transfer  of 
power and electing Mr. Hassan Sheik Mohamud as their 
new  President  in  a  democratic  environment,  we  hope 
that those elections will lead to reconstruction of State 
institutions;  the  restoration  of  peace  and  security  to 
Somalia; and an end to the humanitarian suffering and 
its  consequences,  including  the  suffering  of  a  million 
Somali  refugees  in  our  country.  We  reaffirm  the 
Republic of Yemen’s position of support for the elected 
Somali president and the Government he is forming. We 
will  spare  no  effort  to  enhance  relations  between  our 
two  brotherly  countries  for  our  mutual  benefit  and  in 
the interests of security and stability and of countering 
terrorism and piracy in the region.
In that context, the continuing and intensive influx 
of migrants and asylum seekers into Yemen represents 
a  real  threat  to  national  security,  peace  and  stability 
in  the  region.  It  is  essential  that  the  international 
community  share  that  burden  with  Yemen,  especially 
since  Yemen’s  resources  are  being  drained.  Under  the 
exceptional conditions that Yemen is dealing with, it is 
extremely  difficult  for  us  to  cope  with  the  continued 
flow of arrivals.
The brutal ethnic cleansing of Muslims in Myanmar 
makes it incumbent on the international community to 
pay  attention  to  that  humanitarian  tragedy  and  take 
concrete steps to stop the series of violent and savage 
acts  being  committed  against  that  group.  Considering 
the acts of ethnic brutality and other practices that have 
occurred  in  recent  months,  it  is  not  enough  to  issue 
statements  condemning  and  denouncing  them.  An 
international committee should be set up to investigate 
human  rights  violations  against  Muslims  in  that 
country, deliver humanitarian aid to them and provide 
guarantees to protect them against further violence and 
atrocities.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  thanks  to  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-
General.  We  greatly  appreciate  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations as an international platform that brings together 
all  countries  and  nations  of  the  globe  for  the  sake  of 
peace, security, freedom, human rights and coexistence 
between  nations,  religions  and  civilizations  and  their 
common interests.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Yemen for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President 
of the Republic of Liberia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Liberia.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Ellen 
Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President Johnson-Sirleaf: I congratulate Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić  and  the  people  of  Serbia  on  his  election  to 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh session. I would like to assure him of Liberia’s 
full  cooperation  and  support  as  he  carries  out  the 
responsibilities entrusted to him in steering the affairs 
of  this  session.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of  the 
State of Qatar, for his capable stewardship of the affairs 
of the sixty-sixth session and the many bold initiatives 
4 
12-52201
undertaken  in  the  interests  of  world  peace  during  his 
tenure.
My  highest  commendation  goes  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  continues  to  demonstrate 
sound  leadership  in  the  face  of  new  and  complicated 
challenges. He has begun his second term with renewed 
vigour  and  a  clear  articulation  of  the  priorities  that 
represent  the  major  concerns  of  the  international 
community.
The selection of the theme for this session, which 
calls for the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, 
could  not  have  been  more  appropriate.  When  we 
review  the  state  of  the  world,  we  see  an  international 
landscape  checkered  with  armed  conflict,  economic 
crises  and  environmental  degradation.  For  those  who 
have  been  through  the  painful  experience  of  conflict, 
including  my  own  country,  Liberia,  this  year’s  theme 
becomes  very  pertinent.  The  cost  of  conflict  in  lives 
and 
infrastructural  destruction  makes  us  doubly 
appreciative  of  the  value  of  preventive  action  in 
averting  conflict.  The  need  for  conflict  prevention 
takes  on  added  urgency,  because  most  conflicts  are 
internal,  engendered  by  marginalization,  inequity  and 
injustice. It becomes imperative, therefore, to identify 
and remove those triggers of conflict before they cause 
explosions.
Our  Government’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  twin 
objectives of conflict prevention and peace consolidation 
are being reinforced through our engagement with the 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  architecture  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  an  environment  of  peace,  we  have 
prioritized  actions  aimed  at  re-establishing  the  rule 
of  law  by  building  the  capacity  of  our  institutions 
and processes to deliver justice and security. We have 
formulated  a  road  map  for  national  reconciliation  to 
ensure that peace is sustainable.
Our  development  partners,  including  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies,  have  remained 
faithful  to  our  national  agenda.  They  have  supported 
our  priority  programmes  for  women’s  empowerment, 
increased  agricultural  productivity  and  food  security, 
roads and infrastructure, and job creation. All the United 
Nations agencies must be supplied with the capacity to 
provide  support  to  Government  programmes  in  those 
areas.  That  is  particularly  critical  for  the  new  gender 
entity, UN-Women, which is the youngest among them 
and  whose  viability  must  be  assured.  We  have  made 
strong strides in gender equality, but much more must 
A/67/PV.9
be done for girls’ education and women’s empowerment. 
Tremendous progress has also been made in health-care 
delivery.
We are particularly pleased by the recent UNICEF 
report,  which  shows  a  sharp  reduction  in  the  level  of 
child mortality. However, there are still many challenges 
to overcome before we can ensure universal access to 
health care.
Many  developing  countries,  such  as  Liberia,  have 
structured  their  economies  around  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  While  some  countries 
have  made  considerable  progress  in  reaching  some  of 
the Goals, many others will be unable to achieve them 
by  2015.  There  is  an  emerging  consensus  that  efforts 
must  be  accelerated  in  order  to  achieve  maximum 
progress  in  reaching  the  MDGs  over  the  next  three 
years.
I am honoured and humbled to have been selected 
by  the  Secretary-General  as  one  of  the  co-Chairs  of 
the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda.  We  are  mindful  of  the 
difficulty  of  our  task,  which  requires  us  to  propose  a 
framework  that  builds  on  but  goes  beyond  the  MDGs 
in  the  establishment  of  goals  that  are  ambitious  but 
achievable. We know that the results of our work must 
reflect the broad political consensus of the public and 
private  sectors  and  civil  society.  We  know  that  the 
defined goals should enable all people in all countries 
to  be  freed  from  the  shackles  of  poverty  through 
sustainable development.
Liberia remains fully committed to the ideals and 
purposes  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the 
Organization  should  continue  to  occupy  the  centre  of 
global governance by leading efforts to meet our collective 
challenges to peace, security and development. To meet 
that  objective,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform need to come to an early and 
logical  conclusion.  My  Government  is  encouraged 
that  an  increasing  number  of  Member  States  support 
the enlargement of the Council in both the permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  categories.  That  would  ensure 
a fairer and more equitable participation, reflective of 
the world demography. In that regard, Liberia supports 
the  African  common  position,  based  on  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus adopted by the African Union.
In the same vein, we must ensure that the General 
Assembly is revitalized in order for it to fully assume 
all the responsibilities entrusted to it under the Charter. 
12-52201
5
A/67/PV.9
It remains, after all, the most representative body of the 
United Nations.
The  high-level  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Arms Trade Treaty, which ended recently here in New 
York, sought to develop the highest possible international 
standards  for  the  trade  in  conventional  weapons. 
However,  strong  national  positions  on  that  sensitive 
global issue prevented an agreement on a binding arms 
trade treaty. Yet, nations of goodwill and countries like 
Liberia  that  have  experienced  devastation  from  the 
illicit  trade  in  and  diversion  of  conventional  weapons 
must continue our strong advocacy, taking into account 
the  full  range  of  differences  and  disagreements.  We 
would therefore encourage bilateral consensus-building 
ahead of a new round of negotiations. At the same time, 
we  are  convinced  that  the  final  draft  text  of  the  arms 
trade treaty, though imperfect and incomplete, contains 
essential elements, upon which future negotiations can 
succeed. 
We  express  our  deep  condolences  on  the  death  of 
the United States Ambassador and staff and the Libyan 
nationals  in  the  attack  on  the  United  States  consulate 
in  Benghazi.  All  nations  should  be  concerned  about 
the  spreading  of  violence  in  reaction  to  a  film  that 
demonstrates unacceptable insensitivity to the Islamic 
faith.  Even  in  such  circumstances,  we  must  all  be 
mindful that democracy requires freedom — freedom 
of  ideas,  freedom  of  association,  freedom  of  religion 
and,  more  important,  freedom  of  expression.  That 
often results in statements and actions that may offend. 
Tolerance, not violence, is the appropriate response to 
prevent  further  violence.  Liberia  is  a  clear  example, 
where,  were  it  not  for  our  own  tolerance  of  our  new-
found  freedom  of  expression,  our  country  would  be 
back in chaos.
While 
the  countries 
the  majority  of 
in  our 
subregion  are  consolidating  economic  and  social 
gains,  underpinned  by  democratic  processes,  some 
are,  regrettably,  still  dogged  by  serious  challenges 
that  risk  undermining  the  peace  and  progress  of  the 
entire region. We in Liberia, like many other countries 
in the region and the world at large, were particularly 
appalled  by  the  unconstitutional  unravelling  of  the 
democratic Governments in Mali and Guinea-Bissau in 
the early part of this year. We unequivocally condemn 
such attempts to seize power through unconstitutional 
means. 
Accordingly,  Liberia  endorses  the  decisions  of 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  which  sought  the  full  restoration  of 
constitutional  order  in  both  countries  in  the  shortest 
time. Liberia enjoins the world community, particularly 
the Security Council, to buttress the efforts of ECOWAS 
in  restoring  peace  in  our  region,  most  especially  in 
Mali.
As the current Chair of the four-nation Mano River 
Union,  comprising  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea  and 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia  has  committed  itself  to  never 
allowing  an  inch  of  its  territory  to  be  used  in  order 
to  destabilize  its  neighbours.  In  that  context,  we 
categorically  condemn  all  attempts  to  undermine  the 
peace  and  democratic  gains  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  are 
working  closely  with  the  Ivorian  authorities  and  the 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  bodies  in  both  Liberia 
and Côte d’Ivoire to protect and consolidate the peace in 
our two countries. We call on all countries in our region 
to work in concert so that those intent on destabilizing 
some parts of our region are treated as enemies in all 
parts of it.
We are all part of a rapidly changing world in which 
the  forces  of  globalization  cannot  be  reversed.  Our 
farming  systems  must  adjust  to  the  unusual  weather 
conditions.  The  places  where  we  live  and  work  will 
need,  in  some  cases,  to  be  relocated  from  traditional 
safe areas. Our societies must also find responses to the 
distractions  resulting  from  the  demonstration  effect. 
Developing  countries,  such  as  my  own,  must  make 
globalization  work  if  we  are  to  achieve  our  growth 
targets and lift our people out of poverty. That means 
greater commitment and effort on our part to create an 
environment  that  ensures  economic  growth  based  on 
mutual benefits and responsibilities.
Since  its  founding,  Liberia  has  been  a  complex 
nation, and the divisions that led to decades of war still 
run deep.
Our  experience  clearly  shows  that  success  has  its 
pitfalls.  Displaced  citizens  returning  from  refugee 
camps in the subregion and deportees from around the 
world  swell  the  ranks  of  the  desperate  unemployed, 
thereby  intensifying  our  vulnerability.  Communities 
long deprived of basic services demand instant attention 
to their individual needs, thereby straining our capacity. 
Civil  servants  lacking  a  decent  wage  for  two  decades 
rightfully clamour for raises, thereby undermining the 
budgetary process.
6 
12-52201
As  Liberia  moves  towards  its  tenth  year  of 
sustained  peace,  we  can  say  with  conviction  that  our 
country  has  turned  the  corner.  Liberia  is  no  longer  a 
place of conflict, war and deprivation. We are no longer 
the country our citizens fled, our international partners 
pitied  and  our  neighbours  feared.  Our  stabilization 
efforts over the past six years have resulted in average 
annual  growth  of  over  6  per  cent,  major  foreign 
investment,  expanded  fiscal  space  and  unprecedented 
debt cancellation. More important, we have earned our 
rightful place on an irreversible path to sustained peace, 
growth  and  development.  Our  Vision  2030,  resulting 
from  a  robust  nationwide  consultation,  is  a  long-
term  programme  for  transformation  that  prioritizes 
youth  development,  infrastructure,  reconciliation  and 
capacity development.
Yet,  our  Government  is  keenly  aware  of  the 
challenges  to  be  faced  over  the  next  three  years. 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces  are  gradually 
being  withdrawn  from  Liberia.  In  our  discussions 
with  various  United  Nations  teams  that  have  come  to 
Liberia  —  the  technical  assessment  mission  in  March 
and  the  Security  Council  delegation  in  May  —  we 
have emphasized the need for a responsible transition, 
through  a  gradual  process  occurring  over  a  period 
of  three  to  five  years.  We  also  seek  the  alignment  of 
transitional activities with our budget cycle, reflecting 
Government priorities.
We wish to express our appreciation to the United 
Nations, which has been a very committed and effective 
partner.  We  owe  the  Organization  much  gratitude  for 
preserving an enabling environment for peacebuilding 
and State-building.
In conclusion, I wish to note that today, for the first 
time in two generations, Liberia has a second successive 
democratic  Government  elected  by  the  will  of  the 
people. Despite the distractions, local and external, our 
people  are  determined  to  take  their  destiny  into  their 
own hands, and determined that our ambitious goal of 
making  Liberia  a  middle-income  country  by  the  year 
2030 will be achieved.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Liberia for the statement she has just 
made.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
A/67/PV.9
Address by Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Zambia.
Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael 
Chilufya Sata, President of the Republic of Zambia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Sata: I am greatly honoured to deliver my 
inaugural address to the General Assembly. Allow me 
to begin by congratulating the President on his election 
to  oversee  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  Assembly, 
and to wish him every success in his position. His great 
country, Serbia, has historically enjoyed close ties with 
Zambia. We are therefore delighted to see him in that 
important seat.
I would also like to thank His Excellency Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for the steady manner in which 
he  has  continued  to  steer  our  global  Organization.  In 
Zambia  we  are  particularly  appreciative  that,  despite 
his busy schedule, the Secretary-General made time to 
visit  our  country  earlier  this  year  to  undertake  some 
important programmes.
About  a  year  ago,  I  ended  my  decade-long  career 
as an opposition politician when the people of Zambia 
overwhelmingly  chose 
their  political 
leadership through a democratic and peaceful electoral 
transition  that  ushered  me  into  office  as  the  fifth 
President of the Republic. I am indebted to the people 
of Zambia for once again undertaking that process in a 
peaceful manner.
to  change 
It  is  my  desire  to  utilize  my  experience  at  both 
ends of the leadership spectrum to make a worthwhile 
contribution to our democracy. I trust that Zambia will 
be able to share its lessons, as well as to learn from those 
with longer and even better democratic experiences.
As the Assembly is aware, we still face considerable 
challenges  with  respect  to  meeting  the  basic  needs  of 
the  majority  of  the  Zambian  people.  Shortly  before  I 
took office, there was much publicity about our positive 
12-52201
7
A/67/PV.9
macroeconomic  indicators,  but  those  results  did  not 
trickle down to the average citizen.
In the quest to develop at the micro level, the focus 
of  my  new  Government  is  on  enhancing  agricultural 
productivity  and  access  to  markets  for  peasants  and 
small-scale 
improved  health 
services as close to the families as possible, improving 
the quality of education and facilitating access to decent 
housing and accommodation.
farmers,  providing 
As we draw closer to the 2015 deadline for meeting 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  international 
community  needs  to  maximize  its  efforts  towards 
achieving  all  eight  goals.  Zambia  has  made  steady 
progress in achieving some of them.That is most visible 
in the education sector, which has seen an increase in 
the net enrolment of children in primary schools, while 
the health sector has seen reductions in the prevalence 
of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
our 
progress 
Notwithstanding 
tackling 
communicable  diseases,  Zambia  is  also  attempting 
to  address  non-communicable  diseases  such  as 
hypertension, diabetes and cancer.
in 
While  still  considering  matters  related  to  the 
health sector, allow me to mention that my Government 
recently  reviewed  statistics  that  indicate  that  Zambia 
now  has  the  second-highest  rate  of  cervical  cancer  in 
the  world.  From  22  to  24  July,  our  capital,  Lusaka, 
hosted the sixth annual Stop Cervical Cancer in Africa 
Conference,  made  up  by  the  Forum  of  African  First 
Ladies  against  Breast  and  Cervical  Cancer  and  the 
African Parliamentarians and Health Ministers against 
Cancer.  Just  last  year,  former  United  States  President 
George  W.  Bush  travelled  to  Lusaka  to  launch  the 
Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon campaign against breast and 
cervical cancer. He has since facilitated some generous 
contributions for the facilities now in place to fight the 
diseases. I would like to express the Zambian people’s 
deep  appreciation  for  all  those  efforts.  However,  the 
challenges in the health sector and elsewhere do not end 
there,  and  by  no  means  have  we  stood  by  with  folded 
arms.
Since my Government assumed power, in September 
2011,  our  country  has  seen  reasonable  improvements 
in our economy, with an inflation rate that is down to 
6.6 per cent and a gross domestic product growth rate 
of  about  6  per  cent,  in  spite  of  slow  global  economic 
trends. That has been attributed to enhancement of the 
investment  policy  framework  and  to  improvement  of 
the  infrastructure  and  to  human  capital  development. 
Despite  those  efforts,  however,  60.5  per  cent  of  the 
Zambian people continue to live in poverty.
My  Government  attaches  similar  importance  to 
promoting  good  governance.  As  such,  we  have  put 
in  place  a  robust  anti-corruption  programme  with 
improved  and 
increased  resources,  which  should 
set  a  new  stage  for  our  development.  In  addition,  for 
the  first  time,  Zambia  has  entrusted  the  governance 
of  our  legislative  and  judicial  institutions  to  our 
women.  The  Inspector-General  of  Police,  the  Chief 
Justice  and  the  Deputy  Chief  Justice,  the  chair  of  the 
anti-corruption  commission  and  the  commissioner  of 
the  drug  enforcement  commission  are  all  women.  I 
remain convinced that they will improve our record and 
surpass the nation’s expectations.
Our  national  programmes  are  also  focused  on 
creating  employment  for  our  youth.  Despite  our  vast 
natural  resources,  unemployment  continues  to  be  the 
most pressing problem for the younger generation. We 
are  therefore  looking  to  improve  partnership  with  the 
various  United  Nations  agencies  and  the  rest  of  the 
international community to harness best practices from 
across the world. After all, it is the youth of 2012 who 
have made Zambia the African football champion.
Our  Government  has  recognized  that  without  the 
rule  of  law,  social  justice  and  an  independent  judicial 
system  Zambia  will  not  be  able  to  attain  sustainable 
social and economic development. As an initial step in 
that  regard,  our  Government  is  currently  undertaking 
a  constitutional  review  process  that  is  intended  to 
ensure  the  primacy  of  the  individual  citizen  and  his 
liberties.  We  further  wish  to  speed  up  the  process  of 
domesticating  the  international  conventions  that  seek 
to bridge the gaps for minorities. Special emphasis will 
also  be  placed  on  improving  the  treatment  of  people 
with mental and physical challenges.
Zambia  participated  in  the  process  leading  to  the 
Rio+20  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development.  Over  the  years,  we  have  learned  to 
appreciate  the  transboundary  nature  of  matters  such 
as  our  common  environment.  I  would  like  to  express 
appreciation to the Government of Brazil, the Chair of 
the  Conference  and  all  who  made  tremendous  efforts 
to  bring  about  the  final  outcome  document  of  that 
historic  conference.  We  are  concerned,  however,  that 
as  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  we  missed 
the  opportunity  to  develop  a  formidable  international 
8 
12-52201
for  promoting 
process 
sustainable  development. 
The  failure  to  commit  any  funds  to  the  means  of 
implementation,  and  indeed  the  little  progress  in 
outlining 
the  sustainable  development  goals,  has 
underscored  the  lack  of  ambition  in  addressing  our 
deteriorating  environment,  worsening  inequality  and 
a  growing  global  population  that  shares  the  Earth’s 
limited resources. In that instance, we failed the test for 
global solidarity.
Today, Zambia is encouraged that three committed 
global citizens have been appointed as co-Chairs of the 
Secretary-General’s  high-level  panel  to  advise  on  the 
post-2015  global  development  agenda.  We  therefore 
would  like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  President 
Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono  of 
Indonesia,  Her 
Excellency  President  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf  of  Liberia 
and His Excellency Prime Minister David Cameron of 
the  United  Kingdom.  We  wish  them  every  success  as 
they  take  on  that  onerous  task.  We  must  support  the 
high-level panel to help recoup the lost opportunities of 
the recent past. As I indicated earlier, we are still a long 
way from attaining the Millenium Development Goals. 
Discarding them entirely would be to the detriment of 
the poorer nations. I trust that the Secretary-General’s 
panel will take that into consideration.
The  theme  for  this  year’s  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, 
is undeniably significant in the wake of the turmoil that 
continues  to  threaten  international  peace  and  security 
with  the  persistent  conflict  situations  on  the  African 
continent  in  places  such  as  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Mali  and  Somalia.  I  therefore  wish  to 
report  that  our  Government  has  in  certain  instances 
supported measures to help mitigate the humanitarian 
situation.  I  urge  the  international  community  to 
redouble its efforts in bringing peace to those troubled 
regions.
Farther  afield,  but  no  less  important,  is  the 
situation  in  Syria,  which  has  seen  the  indiscriminate 
killing  of  many  innocent  people.  There  is  a  need  for 
concerted  efforts  to  utilize  peaceful  means,  such  as 
mediation and negotiation, to put a halt to the killings 
and to restore peace to the country. Humanity has again 
been embarrassed by the unnecessary carnage. Despite 
the  trouble  spots,  Zambia  remains  convinced  that  the 
United  Nations  has  since  1945  performed  quite  well. 
However,  circumstances  have  since  changed  greatly, 
A/67/PV.9
and we need only look at the sovereign representation 
in this Hall to prove that.
It  is  therefore  imperative  that  ongoing  efforts  to 
reform the United Nations be approached with renewed 
vigour.  We  are  concerned  that  a  seemingly  difficult 
deadlock has been created in the reform process of the 
United Nations.
In addition, I wish to reiterate that despite the slow 
process  of  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  Africa 
should  not  relent  or  become  frustrated.  We  should 
stand up and be counted. As enshrined in the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  Africa  must  be 
given  two  permanent  seats  with  a  veto  immediately 
exercisable  and  two  non-permanent  seats  to  correct 
the  historical  injustice  that  the  continent  has  suffered 
and also adhere to the geopolitical realities of modern 
times.  Furthermore,  the  Council  should  improve  its 
working methods.
I  wish  to  appeal  to  all  nations  to  renew  their 
commitment  and  to  strive  for  new  common  ground 
where  individual  national  interests  take  a  back  seat. 
Just  as  many  international  conventions  have  been 
subject to innovative translations in the recent past, we 
must  plan  to  be  as  flexible  in  creating  a  new  United 
Nations,  sooner  rather  than  later.  To  ignore  this  need 
for  transformation  would be  tantamount  to  killing  the 
Organization.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Zambia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Royal Highness Grand Duke Henri 
of Luxembourg, the Grand Duke of the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Grand Duke 
of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
His  Royal  Highness  Grand  Duke  Henri  of 
Luxembourg, the Grand Duke of the Grand Duchy 
of  Luxembourg,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
12-52201
9
A/67/PV.9
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Royal Highness Grand Duke 
Henri  of  Luxembourg,  the  Grand  Duke  of  the  Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg.
His Royal Highness Grand Duke Henri (spoke in 
French): On behalf of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 
let  me  congratulate  President  Jeremić  on  his  election 
as President of the General Assembly. He can count on 
the full support of my country as he assumes this major 
responsibility.
The  General  Assembly  is  the  central  body  of  the 
United  Nations  architecture.  Here  all  Member  States 
are  represented,  and  each  has  a  vote,  irrespective 
of  its  size,  its  population  or  its  economic  power.  The 
Assembly  truly  is  the  concert  of  nations  embodying 
the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  Member 
States.  To  President  Jeremić,  the  conductor  of  the 
concert of States here assembled, we wish inspiration, 
passion and wisdom.
Luxembourg is proud to have been part, since the 
very beginning, of the peace project that is the United 
Nations.
Our then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Joseph 
Beck, in presenting the Charter of the United Nations 
Charter — signed a few weeks earlier in San Francisco  —  
to the Luxembourg Parliament on 9 August 1945, spoke 
the following visionary words: 
“It  is  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  that  our 
country  found  the  hope  of  rebirth  in  its  darkest 
hour;  it  is  within  the  United  Nations  that  it  has 
taken up its place as an independent State, as a free 
country; it is among these peaceful countries, just 
united by the Organization of San Francisco in the 
wonderful hope of a lasting peace, that it will find 
the guarantees of a future which are necessary for 
its renewal”.
History has vindicated him. Determined, with the 
other peoples of the United Nations, to save succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war,  Luxembourg 
found  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  multilateralism 
in  general  the  ideal  framework  to  flourish  as  an 
independent,  sovereign  State,  free  to  choose  for 
itself.  Luxembourg  has  been  able  to  prosper  thanks 
to  the  peace  it  has  enjoyed  since  1945.  In  return,  we 
have  resolutely  committed  ourselves,  within 
the 
United  Nations,  to  contribute  to  building  peace  and 
to  promoting  sustainable  development  for  the  greatest 
number possible.
President  Jeremić  has  rightly  chosen  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  as  the  theme  of  the  general 
debate at the current session. It is one of the overarching 
objectives of our Organization, aimed at enabling it to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security.  To  settle 
disputes peacefully, the Charter has attributed a major 
role  not  only  to  the  Security  Council,  but  also  to  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.
The  Syrian  crisis,  which  has  lasted  already  18 
months, continues to get worse. It has now claimed more 
than  20,000  victims.  Repercussions  on  neighbouring 
countries  continue  to  intensify.  The  crisis  is  a  call  on 
our collective conscience and puts our commitment to 
the test. Some are tempted to accuse the United Nations 
of  inaction.  However,  the  fault  lies  elsewhere.  Those 
responsible for the terrifying violence, the war crimes, 
the  egregious  human  rights  violations  and  crimes 
against  humanity  committed  in  Syria  will  one  day 
have  to  answer  for  them.  Such  is  Luxembourg’s  firm 
conviction.
The  failure  to  this  day  of  attempts  to  resolve  the 
Syrian  crisis  through  peaceful  means  must  not  lead 
us  to  neglect  the  quest  for  political  solutions  to  other 
crises.
Luxembourg has consistently advocated a peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  That 
conflict  has  been  going  on  for  far  too  long.  It  is 
essential that the parties resume direct negotiations and 
negotiate  a  sustainable  peace  among  themselves,  with 
the  support  of  the  Quartet.  The  path  will  no  doubt be 
arduous, but the objective is worth it for the Israelis, the 
Palestinians and the region as a whole. We would like to 
see an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable 
State of Palestine, living side by side with the State of 
Israel in peace and security.
Luxembourg has for many years now supported the 
building  of  the  Palestinian  State  at  both  the  political 
and  the  economic  levels.  We  also  support  Palestine’s 
aspirations to assume its place among the nations of the 
world. We provide financial support to the Palestinian 
Authority  in  order  to  assist  it  in  making  its  public 
administration and basic social services work, and we 
are also a reliable partner of the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East.  Under  an  agreement  signed  in  February  2012, 
10 
12-52201
A/67/PV.9
Luxembourg  will  provide  assistance  in  the  amount  of 
€15 million to Palestine refugees throughout the period 
2012-2015.
maintenance of international peace and security — an 
approach  that  recognizes  the  intrinsic  link  between 
security and development.
Allow me to give a few other examples to illustrate 
how  Luxembourg  is  contributing  to  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes.  First,  as  was 
recalled during the High-level Meeting on the Rule of 
Law,  Luxembourg  was  one  of  the  very  first  States  to 
recognize  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  as  compulsory.  The  Court  elucidates  and 
develops  international  law  and  thereby  strengthens 
peaceful  relations  between  States.  Next,  Luxembourg 
supports preventive diplomacy and mediation activities 
as  well  as  the  good  offices  undertaken  by  the  United 
Nations. Our support in that area also benefits regional 
organizations,  such  as  the  African  Union.  Finally, 
Luxembourg  also  supports  civil  society,  as  it  did 
in  2010,  when  it  backed  the  mediation  efforts  by  the 
Community of Sant’Egidio between political and civil 
society actors in Guinea and the Niger.
Luxembourg, a multicultural and multilingual State 
by virtue of its history, its geographical location and the 
composition of its population, has often played the role 
of mediator between its large European neighbours and 
within the European Union.
Building  on  a  balanced  foreign  policy,  free 
from  the  legacy  of  a  colonial  past  and  defined  by 
an  unwavering  commitment 
to  multilateralism, 
Luxembourg  is  at  the  service  of  the  United  Nations 
when it comes to playing the role of honest broker and 
assuming the responsibilities that come with that role.
In  2009,  moreover,  Luxembourg  had  the  honour  of 
chairing the Economic and Social Council at a crucial 
juncture marked by the devastating effects of the global 
economic and financial crisis of 2008. 
My  country  has  also  been  a  linchpin  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission since its inception in 2005. 
Since February 2011, the Permanent Representative of 
Luxembourg to the United Nations, Ambassador Sylvie 
Lucas,  has  chaired  the  Guinea  configuration  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  Luxembourg  is  honoured 
to  be  able  to  marshal  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  in  support  of  the  authorities  in  Conakry, 
who  have  asked  to  be  assisted  in  three  priority  areas: 
national  reconciliation,  security  sector  reform,  and 
youth  and  women’s  employment.  Our  commitment 
stems  from  our  conviction  that  we  need  to  adopt  a 
global approach towards peacebuilding and towards the 
Indeed, to ensure lasting peace, one must tackle the 
root causes of conflicts. Luxembourg is concentrating 
on  two  of  these:  social  inequalities  resulting  from 
persistent poverty, and the increasing scarcity of natural 
resources as a result of climate change. 
The  fight  against  poverty  is  one  of  our  stated 
priorities. Since 2000, Luxembourg has reached the goal 
set by the United Nations of dedicating at least 0.7 per 
cent of its gross national income to official development 
assistance. In 2009 and 2010, that assistance exceeded 
the threshold of 1 per cent of our gross national income. 
The  Government  of  Luxembourg  is  determined  to 
maintain that effort despite budgetary constraints. Our 
assistance  is  benefiting  the  least  developed  countries 
in particular. Here again, we exceed the goal set by the 
United  Nations  by  dedicating  more  than  0.2  per  cent 
of  our  gross  national  income  to  those  countries,  the 
majority of which are in Africa.
Beyond simple statistics, those figures reflect our 
spirit of solidarity towards developing countries. That 
spirit  drives  not  only  our  political  decision-makers 
and  our  development  cooperation  experts  but  also  the 
numerous citizens who are acting through civil society 
organizations. My family is proud to participate in that 
movement of solidarity. My wife, the Grand Duchess, 
invests herself fully in the social sector as a UNICEF 
Eminent  Advocate  for  Children,  notably  in  Burundi. 
She has been passionate about microfinance for many 
years and has completed numerous projects in that area. 
As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/67/1) 
highlights, we have achieved, worldwide, some essential 
targets  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  ahead 
of  time.  However,  the  effects  of  global  warming  are 
catastrophic  and  are  threatening  to  undo  the  progress 
that  has  been  accomplished.  In  the  least  developed 
countries, the situation is particularly worrisome. It is 
therefore essential that we act resolutely in that area.
Progress has been made at the Conferences of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change in Cancún and then in Durban. We 
now need further commitments to be made in terms of 
reducing  carbon  emissions.  Another  major  challenge 
lies  in  the  mobilization  of  adequate  financial  and 
technological  resources  to  enable  the  most  vulnerable 
countries, in particular, the least developed countries, 
12-52201
11
A/67/PV.9
the landlocked developing countries and the small island 
developing  States,  to  adapt  to  the  effects  of  climate 
change.  Luxembourg  is  acting  to  meet  that  challenge. 
We have thus decided to join an important programme 
of  support  for  renewable  energy  that  would  meet  the 
specific needs of Pacific small island developing States.
I personally attended the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development in Brazil in June in order 
to show how high a priority the sustainable development 
of  our  planet  is  for  my  country.  None  of  us  has  the 
means  to  make  it  on  our  own.  Our  interdependence 
pushes us to act together. It is a matter of survival. And 
it  is  within  the  United  Nations  that  we  must  organize 
our collective survival.
for  Luxembourg 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to  mention  another 
priority 
terms  of  conflict 
prevention, namely, disarmament and non-proliferation. 
Luxembourg promotes the constant search for security 
at  the  lowest  level  of  armaments.  It  is  a  party  to  all 
relevant  global  and  regional  treaties  and  conventions 
and,  despite 
international 
community  suffered  this  year,  we  remain  committed 
to working towards an arms trade treaty, which would 
help Member States to effectively combat the scourge 
of uncontrolled arms circulation.
the  setback 
in 
that 
the 
When  conflicts  break  out  despite  attempts  to 
prevent  them,  Luxembourg  does  not  shy  away  from 
committing 
itself.  My  country  participates  quite 
regularly  and  actively  in  peacekeeping  operations.  At 
the  present  time,  Luxembourg  troops  are  contributing 
to efforts under the United Nations mandate in Kosovo, 
Lebanon  and  Afghanistan.  Through  its  contributions 
to  European  Union  missions,  Luxembourg  has  also 
assumed responsibilities in the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo,  in  the  fight  against  piracy  off  the  coast  of 
Somalia and in the Sahel region, where the international 
community must redouble its efforts to prevent terrorist 
groups  linked  to  transnational  organized  crime  from 
taking root.
All  the  areas  of  action  I  have  touched  upon  here 
show  how  indispensable  the  United  Nations  is.  If 
we  are  convinced  of  the  relevance  of  a  multilateral 
approach  founded  on  the  United  Nations,  we  must 
give  the  Organization  the  means  to  be  a  true  centre 
of  multilateral  action.  For  that,  we  need  to  continue 
to  press  ahead  with  United  Nations  reform,  including 
Security Council reform. We are all aware of the need 
to make the Security Council more inclusive and more 
representative of today’s realities and to make it more 
effective and transparent by continuing to improve its 
working methods. 
Africa should finally take its rightful place on the 
Council, in particular among the permanent members. 
It  is  also  important  to  ensure  adequate  representation 
for  small  States,  which  represent  the  vast  majority  of 
the Member States of the Organization.
in 
Luxembourg’s  action 
the  United  Nations 
since  1945  can  be  summarized  by  three  key  words: 
commitment,  solidarity,  responsibility.  Yet,  although 
Luxembourg has consistently proved its solidarity and 
commitment  and  has  taken  on  responsibilities  at  the 
United Nations, it has not ever had the honour of serving 
on the Security Council. Building on its commitment to 
peacekeeping  operations  and  peacebuilding  activities, 
Luxembourg  declared  its  candidature  11  years  ago 
for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for 
the  period  2013-2014.  Luxembourg  stands  ready  to 
share  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  which  the  States 
Members of the United Nations have conferred on the 
Security Council under the Charter.
Commitment to effective multilateralism does not 
depend on size. During his official visit to Luxembourg 
on  17  April  2012,  when  he  addressed  our  Parliament 
and thus our country, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
made the following eloquent pronouncement: 
“You have shown that it is not the size of a nation’s 
territory that makes the difference. It is the size of a 
nation’s heart. It is the breadth of a nation’s vision. 
It  is  the  depth  of  a  nation’s  promise  to  the  wider 
world.”
That recognition honours us. It has further strengthened 
Luxembourg’s resolve to prove itself up to the task and 
to serve the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I thank the Grand Duke of the 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the statement he has 
just made. 
His  Royal  Highness  Grand  Duke  Henri  of 
Luxembourg,  Grand  Duke  of  the  Grand  Duchy 
of  Luxembourg,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
12 
12-52201
Address by Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President 
of Ukraine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of 
Ukraine. 
Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Viktor 
Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Yanukovych  (spoke 
in  Ukrainian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): On behalf of 
Ukraine, I sincerely congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-seventh session. I wish him every success in the 
post and hope that all his actions bear fruit.
The  theme  of  this  year’s  debate,  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations  by  peaceful  means”,  is  always  a  pressing 
one.  That  imperative  was  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations by its founding members, including 
Ukraine. I am convinced that the fundamental principle 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  remains  today 
the cornerstone of the modern system of international 
relations. It is the underlying mission of our Organization 
and the immediate duty of every Member State.
Today,  we  are  closely  watching  the  situation  in 
Syria,  which  remains  extremely  alarming.  Ukraine 
shares the deep concern of the international community 
regarding the escalation of violence in that country. We 
call on all relevant parties to make every effort to settle 
the conflict on the basis of respect for the principles of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  universally 
recognized principles of international law.
The  people  of  Ukraine  have  never  been  and  will 
never  be  indifferent  to  human  suffering.  We  make  no 
distinction  between  our  grief  and  that  of  others.  Last 
year,  thanks  to  Ukraine’s  humanitarian  mission  to 
Libya, people of many nationalities, mostly women and 
children, were evacuated and saved from hostilities. In 
referring  to  that  case,  we  are  speaking  not  just  about 
one action but about Ukraine’s resolute intention to use 
its  capabilities  to  protect  civilian  populations  in  hot 
spots.
A/67/PV.9
That is why this year, when the situation in Syria 
deteriorated, we immediately evacuated the first group 
of  Ukrainian  and  Polish  citizens  who  had  stated  their 
intention to return home. Let me assure the Assembly 
that  any  Ukrainian  aircraft  and  ships  available  for 
evacuation  purposes  in  hot  spots  will  always  be  at 
the  disposal  of  those  in  need  of  help,  regardless  of 
their  nationality.  Ukraine  has  approved  a  decision  to 
extend  humanitarian  assistance  using  United  Nations 
mechanisms to Syria’s internally displaced persons and 
refugees. I am confident that through the joint efforts of 
the international community we will manage to ensure 
the safety of the civilian population in Syria. I believe 
in international solidarity in that regard. 
Recently,  on  11  September,  we  witnessed  the 
tragic  attack  on  the  United  States  consulate  in  Libya. 
Ukraine roundly condemns any act of violence against 
diplomatic missions and their personnel.
For  many  years,  Ukraine  has  actively  supported 
the expansion of preventive diplomacy in international 
relations,  with,  of  course,  the  leading  role  played  by 
the United Nations. Guided by that approach, Ukraine 
initiated a dialogue in the Human Rights Council on the 
prevention of human rights violations, in particular by 
initiating a relevant thematic resolution.
Mr. Kanda (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Ensuring  early  conflict  prevention  was  among 
the  key  elements  stressed  by  Ukraine  during  its  first 
membership in the Security Council as an independent 
State,  in  2000-2001.  We  also  are  conducting  relevant 
work in the Peacebuilding Commission. The same goal 
features among the priorities of Ukraine’s chairmanship 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe (OSCE) in 2013.
We  intend,  during  our  OSCE  chairmanship,  to 
make every effort to strengthen security in our region 
and  to  consolidate  the  democratic  institutions  of 
Member States. We will also promote the enhancement 
of  the  OSCE’s  efficiency  as  a  regional  organization, 
in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  We  will  also  underscore  the  need  for 
new impetus to be given to the resolution of protracted 
conflicts  in  Europe  and  to  address  new  threats  and 
challenges to security, in particular energy security.
We will strive to increase OSCE efficiency in early 
conflict  prevention.  The  Ukrainian  chairmanship  will 
actively  contribute  to  the  deepening  of  international 
12-52201
13
A/67/PV.9
cooperation  and  dialogue  so  as  to  maintain  stability, 
resolve  crisis  situations  and  ensure  post-conflict 
reconstruction.  We  will  devote  special  attention  to 
negotiations  on  the  Transdniestria  conflict;  Ukraine 
has  for  many  years  actively  participated  in  efforts  to 
settle that conflict.
as  an  important  milestone  in  the  development  of 
international  cooperation  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations in that sphere. The outcome document 
of  the  Conference  has  proved  the  ability  of  countries 
of  different  political  and  economic  weights  to  reach  a 
compromise, even in today’s difficult times.
We will promote in every possible way the Nagorno 
Karabakh  settlement  process,  as  well  as  the  Geneva 
discussions on security and stability in the Caucasus.
I  would  like  to  stress  that  Ukraine,  as  a  non-bloc 
State,  cannot  but  be  concerned  with  the  erosion  of 
the  Treaty  on  Conventional  Armed  Forces  in  Europe. 
We  consider  that  international  legal  document  to  be 
a  cornerstone  of  stability  on  the  continent  and  that 
therefore  States  parties  should  make  every  effort  to 
ensure its fully fledged and efficient application.
in 
the 
Ukraine, 
framework  of 
its  OSCE 
chairmanship,  will  therefore  pay  special  attention  to 
the  resolution  of  the  crisis  surrounding  that  Treaty. 
Peaceful settlement and conflict prevention will be the 
foundation and the starting point of Ukraine’s activities 
if  it  is  elected  to  non-permanent  membership  in  the 
Security Council for 2016-2017.
At  the  beginning  of  this  year,  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  made  public  a  five-year  Action  Agenda 
for  the  Organization.  We  fully  support  the  priorities 
identified in the agenda and consider them a road map 
for United Nations activities in the near future.
We  are  currently  going  through  a  period  of 
unprecedented  change.  Unfortunately,  and  especially 
in view of the world crisis, there are global tendencies 
towards  the  stagnation  of  economic  development, 
growing poverty and social inequality, and increasing 
instability in certain States and regions.
the 
those 
is  for 
threats 
It stands to reason that the only way to effectively 
counteract 
international 
community  to  deploy  joint  efforts.  In  that  regard,  we 
deem it especially advisable to increase the efficiency 
of  international  cooperation  among  security  and  law-
enforcement  agencies,  develop  best  practices  for 
addressing  new  challenges  and  threats,  and  introduce 
reliable confidence-building measures.
It  should  be  noted  that  this  year’s  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) left 
open a number of issues, given the close interconnection 
of  the  environmental  and  socioeconomic  aspects  of 
modern life. However, we view the Rio+20 Conference 
We  support  the  complex  approach  that  has  been 
initiated  in  connection  with  sustainable  energy  for 
all,  sustainable  consumption  and  production, 
the 
elimination of hunger, and ensuring urban infrastructure 
development.
Ukraine  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  Conference 
to  consolidate 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme with a view to a system-based management 
of  the  whole  complex  spectrum  of  environmental 
problems.
We deeply appreciate the establishment of a high-
level  political  forum  on  sustainable  development  and 
the  creation  of  an  intergovernmental  working  group 
that  will  chart  post-2015  sustainable  development 
goals.  That  theme  is  of  special  interest  for  Ukraine, 
as  demonstrated  by  the  voluntary  presentation  of 
Ukraine’s  national  achievements  with  respect  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  took  place 
at  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  July.  I  avail 
myself of this opportunity to assure the Assembly that 
participation in the sustainable development efforts of 
the  United  Nations  will  remain  Ukraine’s  unwavering 
priority.
Global,  man-made  climate  change  represents  a 
threat  on  a  planetary  scale.  Therefore,  we  consider 
efforts to counteract that challenge to be a priority task 
for  humankind  as  a  whole.  Let  me  note  that  Ukraine 
has  voluntarily  acceded  to  the  second  commitment 
period  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  undertaking  to  reduce 
its  greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  20  per  cent  by  2020. 
Bearing  that  in  mind,  Ukraine  will  also  promote 
discussions,  in  the  framework  of  its  future  OSCE 
chairmanship, on the environmental impact of energy-
related  man-made  activity,  energy  efficiency  and  the 
use of renewable energy sources.
Turning  to  international  security  problems,  I 
should like to stress that Ukraine is deeply committed 
to the cause of bringing about a safer and more secure 
world.  That  commitment  emanates  from  the  national 
conscience  of  the  people  of  Ukraine,  who  have 
experienced  the  scourge  of  war,  totalitarianism  and 
artificial  famines,  as  well  as  the  consequences  of  the 
14 
12-52201
Chernobyl  disaster,  the  largest  man-made  disaster  in 
human history.
Therefore,  Ukraine’s  aspiration  to  save  the  world 
from tragedies similar to those that we have experienced 
stems  from  the  very  hearts  of  the  Ukrainians  people. 
During the more than two decades of its independence, 
Ukraine  has  been  a  steadfast  supporter  of  global 
nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  We  have 
voluntarily renounced the third-largest nuclear arsenal 
in the world; we kept our word this year and completed 
the  removal  of  the  last  stocks  of  highly  enriched 
uranium from our country.
I  consider  those  important  steps,  as  well  as 
the  Kyiv  Summit  on  the  Safe  and  Innovative  Use 
of  Nuclear  Energy,  held  last  year,  to  be  examples 
worthy of following. I also view in that light the joint 
declaration by Ukraine, Mexico and Chile — countries 
that  have  made  special  efforts  to  neutralize  the  risks 
of  the  exploitation  of  highly  enriched  uranium.  The 
declaration  remains  open  for  signing.  Unfortunately, 
the ambitious goal of the gradual complete liquidation 
of nuclear weapons remains unachieved.
In that regard, we insist that the security guarantees 
for States that have renounced their nuclear stockpiles 
and  made  other  strategic  concessions  should  be 
reflected  in  internationally  binding  legal  instruments. 
This  year  Ukraine  marked  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  its  participation  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.
I am truly proud of the contribution of the sons and 
daughters of Ukraine — servicemen, law enforcement 
officers  and  civilian  personnel  who  have  served  and 
continue  to  serve  the  noble  ideals  of  peace  under  the 
United  Nations  flag.  During  these  years,  over  34,000 
Ukrainians  have  performed  noble  peacekeeping 
missions in over 20 international operations under the 
United  Nations  mandate,  from  Guatemala  to  Timor-
Leste,  from  Croatia  to  Mozambique.  The  experience 
they  have  acquired  gives  Ukraine  the  right  to  speak 
about  achievements  and  advantages,  as  well  as 
about  problematic  issues  in  modern  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  The 
the 
threatening  situation  related  to  air  mobility  and  legal 
gaps in investigations of crimes committed against Blue 
Helmets. I count on the continued support of Ukraine’s 
initiatives  aimed  at  resolving  the  current  problems 
facing United Nations peacekeeping operations.
include 
latter 
A/67/PV.9
Ukraine welcomes the successful completion of the 
General Assembly’s High-level Meeting on the rule of 
law that took place here in New York on 24 September. 
At  the  Meeting,  Ukraine  announced  the  political 
obligations  that  we  will  fulfil  consistently.  We  are 
certain  that  international  efforts  to  ensure  the  rule  of 
law should remain centred around the United Nations.
the 
same 
At 
time, 
relevant 
international 
organizations should continue to play an important role 
in that sphere. For Ukraine, such an organization would 
be  the  Council  of  Europe  and  its  Venice  Commission 
in  particular.  Our  close  cooperation  with  the  Council 
and the Commission has assisted us in making steady 
reforms  to  ensure  the  rule  of  law  and  thereby  realize 
our  aspirations  to  European  integration.  That  process 
is  actively  promoted  by  Ukraine’s  Constitutional 
Assembly, a special political institution established to 
find  a  nationwide  consensus  on  the  provisions  of  the 
basic law. In the course of constructing and developing 
Ukraine’s  Constitution,  we  will  study  and  take  into 
account best practices from other countries.
I am deeply confident that global advances in each of 
the crucial areas I have mentioned would be impossible 
without a United Nations that is more efficient, viable 
and updated to the realities of the twenty-first century. 
The  key  here  is  to  deepen  United  Nations  reform, 
and  primarily  that  of  the  Security  Council.  Ukraine’s 
position  is  well  known.  We  are  ready  to  discuss  all 
progressive  concepts  of  Security  Council  reform 
capable  of  achieving  the  broadest  possible  consensus 
among  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
latter  invariably  make  allowances  for  the  legitimate 
requirements of all regional groups, in particular those 
of Eastern Europe. 
to 
Only  the  United  Nations  is  up  to  the  task  of 
face  contemporary 
strengthening  humankind 
challenges.  The  united  will  of  all  193  Member  States 
represents  an  overwhelming  force  capable  of  coping 
with  the  most  complicated  global  crises.  We  must 
strengthen  and  preserve  our  unity.  I  believe  that  the 
sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly will be 
conducive to that noble goal.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Ukraine for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
12-52201
15
A/67/PV.9
Address by Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President 
of the Republic of Ghana
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Mahama: In accordance with Ghanaian 
tradition and custom, I would like to begin with a basic 
but  essential  courtesy  by  expressing,  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  people  of  my  beloved  country,  our 
deepest gratitude and most profound appreciation to the 
United Nations and to the numerous world leaders who 
mourned  with  us  following  the  sudden  and  untimely 
death  of  our  former  President,  Mr.  John  Evans  Atta 
Mills.  Ghanaians  were  touched  by  the  many  heartfelt 
messages  of  condolence  and  the  glowing  tributes  that 
poured  in  from  all  over  the  globe.  Those  messages  of 
goodwill strengthened us and enabled us to transcend 
the adversity of an occurrence that was unprecedented 
in the history of Ghana.
Mr.  Mills  was  a  dedicated  and  honourable 
statesman.  He  committed  himself  to  bringing  about 
improvement not only in the lives of Ghanaians but also 
in the lives of all other Africans, and indeed in the lives 
of  individuals  throughout  the  world.  His  death  was  a 
significant loss, and I am certain that he will be sorely 
missed by the international community.
With  the  first-hand  knowledge  of  what  it  means 
for  a  nation  to  lose  its  leader,  I  also  want  to  take  this 
opportunity,  on  behalf  of  all  Ghanaians,  to  extend 
condolences  to  the  people  of  Ethiopia,  Malawi  and 
Guinea-Bissau, who also suffered the untimely demise 
of their sitting Presidents. May the souls of these great 
men,  who  gave  so  selflessly  and  helped  to  move  our 
nations forward, rest in perfect peace.
One of the lessons that I learned from the tragedy 
of  Mr.  Mills’s  death  —  and  it  is  a  lesson  worth 
sharing — is that it is during times such as these, times 
of great sorrow and pain, that we often reveal the very 
essence of who we are. That is as true of nations as it 
is of individuals. Over the past few months, Ghanaians 
have shown ourselves to be resilient and respectful of 
the values that promote peace and the institutions that 
safeguard the stability of our democracy. In our process 
of healing from that great loss, we have become more 
united and more determined to stay the course that we 
began in 1957, when we became the first sub-Saharan 
African  nation  to  gain  independence.  In  the  process 
of  healing,  we  have  become  more  confident  than  ever 
before  in  our  ability  to  create  a  better  Ghana  for  our 
children.
Today’s assembly of Heads of State is being held at 
a most critical time. Our world is being confronted with 
a  number  of  significant  challenges.  War,  conflict  and 
strife are very much features of our present existence. 
Poverty,  disease  and  famine  continue  to  cripple  the 
lives  of  many.  Oppression,  discrimination,  illiteracy 
and unemployment still stifle the potential and shatter 
the hopes of millions.
Although examples of such conditions can be found 
on  every  continent,  for  a  while,  whether  rightly  or 
wrongly, they seemed to be automatically and primarily 
associated with Africa. Perhaps that is why it gives me 
such great pleasure to lead my address to the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  with  news  of 
progress  from  Ghana  and  stories  of  success  from  the 
African continent. Today, Africa boasts of some of the 
fastest-growing  economies  in  the  world,  with  Ghana 
being one of them. The number of countries engaged in 
conflict is steadily decreasing year after year. As that 
happens, we are also witnessing a steady increase in the 
number of countries that are governed along democratic 
lines. As is true of all new democracies, those systems 
are  not  without  their  flaws.  While  they  may  not  be 
perfect, however, they are promising.
In  fact,  three  African  countries  that  lost  their 
leaders  this  year  —  Ethiopia,  Malawi  and,  of  course, 
Ghana  —  experienced 
seamless  and  peaceful 
constitutional transitions of power to a new leadership. 
Members can see that, right now, something spectacular 
is  happening  in  Africa.  Growth  is  taking  the  place 
of  stagnation;  tranquillity  the  place  of  turmoil;  and 
democratic governance, founded on the rule of law, the 
place of dictatorship.
There  is  no  denying  the  visibility  and  viability  of 
such  significant  developments.  At  the  very  least,  they 
require  a  re-examination  of  the  long-held  views  and 
misconceptions  about  the  African  continent.  Those 
16 
12-52201
developments must also find expression in the manner 
in  which  developed  nations  relate  to  Africa.  In  many 
ways, that is already taking place, but the shift has only 
just begun. There is still much room for improvement. 
However,  I  am  inspired  by  what  I  see,  which  are 
limitless  possibilities  for  Africa  and  its  engagement 
with the rest of the world.
As the United Nations Human Development Index 
attests, we in Ghana have made tremendous strides in a 
number of areas, with the aim of improving the living 
conditions of our people. Ghana is on track to achieve 
the  targets  set  under  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Significant  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
following  areas:  reducing  poverty,  gender  parity  in 
school  enrolment,  universal  primary  education,  the 
provision  of  safe  drinking  water  and  the  fight  against 
HIV/AIDS.
Unemployment  is  a  challenge  that  exists  on  a 
global  scale.  Nearly  all  nations,  be  they  developed  or 
developing,  are  grappling  with  finding  ways  to  tackle 
that  potential  threat  to  their  economic  stability.  In 
Ghana, we are attempting to deal with the problem as 
aggressively  and  as  effectively  as  possible  by  finding 
long-term  and  sustainable  solutions.  That  includes  a 
programme  that  we  will  launch  to  encourage  young 
people  to  become  entrepreneurs,  owning  their  own 
businesses  and  thereby  becoming  employers  rather 
than employees.
In  Africa,  to  say  that  the  youth  are  our  future  is 
slightly misleading. Nearly 60 per cent of the continent’s 
entire  population  is  below  the  age  of  35.  Our  young 
people are not only our future, but also our present. In 
Ghana, we have been working assiduously to empower 
and support our youth so as to ensure that they will not 
be left behind owing to fast-changing global economic, 
educational and social priorities.
The  Government  is  implementing  several  social 
protection programmes across various sectors to cushion 
the poor and the vulnerable and to ensure that the fruits 
of our economic growth are distributed equitably. Under 
those  programmes,  massive  investments  have  been 
and are still being made in education, health care, the 
modernization of agriculture, the social infrastructure 
and direct payments to the poorest households.
In  furtherance  of  our  battle  against  HIV/AIDS,  a 
new five-year national strategic plan has been launched 
to consolidate the gains already made in reducing the 
prevalence of the disease. Under the new plan, our target 
A/67/PV.9
is to achieve the virtual elimination of mother-to-child 
transmission  and  to  expand  access  to  antiretroviral 
therapy for persons living with HIV/AIDS.
The  Government  of  Ghana  has  committed 
approximately  $80  million  as  its  contribution  to  the 
financing  of  the  new  strategic  plan.  However,  that  is 
not  enough.  We  now  find  ourselves  in  a  rather  ironic 
situation that is threatening the advances we have made 
thus far. Ghana, like several other developing countries 
that  have  made  remarkable  headway  in  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  is  becoming  a  victim  of  its  own  success. 
As  the  numbers  associated  with  the  disease  —  the 
rates  of  infection  and  the  mortality  —  go  down,  so 
too do the figures in the global funding for HIV/AIDS 
programmes. That leaves a considerable financing gap 
for  many  African  countries,  such  as  Ghana,  that  are 
trying  not  only  to  maintain  their  progress  but  also  to 
move closer to the complete eradication of the disease.
In  1992,  under  the  Constitution  of  its  fourth 
republic,  Ghana  established  itself  as  a  multiparty 
democracy.  Since  then,  we  have  held  five  successful 
elections,  which  have  resulted  in  the  smooth  transfer 
of  power  from  one  democratically  chosen  leader  to 
another. When it comes to transparency in the electoral 
exercise,  Ghana  is,  in  fact,  held  up  as  an  example  of 
excellence.
We  are  just  a  few  weeks  away  from  conducting 
our  sixth  presidential  and  parliamentary  election.  As 
President, I wish to assure the international community 
that  that  election  will  also  be  free,  fair  and  peaceful. 
I  am  so  certain  of  our  stability  through  that  process 
that  I  extend  a  warm  welcome  to  any  individual  or 
organization that would like to come and monitor our 
elections.
The  commitment  to  peace  that  I  have  pledged  in 
the  past,  and  which  I  am  pledging  anew  today,  is  in 
keeping with a long-standing tradition that Ghana has 
established  domestically  and  internationally.  In  the 
1960s,  when  Ghana  deployed  8,800  soldiers  to  what 
is  now  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  it  went  on 
record  as  the  first  African  country  to  participate  in 
a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  mission.  Since  then, 
Ghana  has  continued  to  be  an  active  and  key  partner 
in the United Nations peacekeeping programme. It was 
recently  ranked  among  the  10  largest  contributors  of 
personnel  to  peacekeeping  operations  over  the  years. 
Currently, we have troops in five peacekeeping theatres 
throughout the world.
12-52201
17
A/67/PV.9
Ghana’s consistent championing of peace is neither 
accidental  nor  coincidental,  but  by  design  and  by 
determination. We have always recognized that peace is 
critical to development and to the overall improvement 
and enrichment of our people’s lives. It is therefore no 
wonder  that,  in  1961,  when  United  States  President 
John F. Kennedy established the Peace Corps, its very 
first mission was in Ghana.
In the past two decades, Ghana’s position on peace 
has  been  tested  again  and  again  as  the  West  African 
subregion was ravaged by one civil war after another. 
However, we held firm to that position and will continue 
to do so.
Because  Ghana  wishes  to  coexist  harmoniously 
with  all  our  neighbours,  when  legislating  policy,  we 
are always conscious of the importance of peace. When 
offering  asylum  or  a  safe  haven  to  refugees,  we  are 
always  protective  of  our  borders,  making  certain  that 
political  conflict  and  ethnic  tension  do  not  cross  over 
onto  our  soil.  The  unfolding  tensions  in  Côte  d’Ivoire 
and  Mali  have  been  and  continue  to  be  of  particular 
concern to us.
Let me say that Ghana will not allow its territory to 
be used to destabilize any other nation. We will not be 
the storehouse for any resources or weapons that may 
be used to disrupt the peace and development of another 
nation.  We  will  not  harbour  any  individual  or  group 
whose intent is to use Ghana as a base of operations to 
undermine the safety and security of our neighbours.
We  will  work  under  the  ECOWAS  protocol  and 
will  utilize  whatever  other  tools  of  diplomacy  are 
at  our  disposal  to  ensure  that  security  and  peace  are 
established  in  Mali  and  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  that  those 
countries  find  a  place  alongside  their  fellow  African 
countries  in  the  continent’s  march  forward  towards 
prosperity.
in 
Ghana  has  a  strong  belief 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Under  the  principle 
of  the  self-determination  of  peoples,  Ghana  was  the 
first  sub-Saharan  country  to  emerge  from  colonial 
domination. Our nation’s founding father, Mr. Kwame 
Nkrumah, proclaimed that the independence of Ghana is 
meaningless unless it is linked with the total liberation 
of the African continent. In keeping with that right of 
self-determination, we wish to restate our support for an 
independent,  prosperous  Palestinian  State,  coexisting 
peacefully with a free, stable Israeli State. 
We also reiterate our opposition to the continuous 
blockade on Cuba and call for an immediate lifting of 
that embargo.
The  twenty-first  century  can  readily  be  described 
as  the  century  for  Africa.  Last  year,  of  the  10  fastest 
growing  economies  in  the  world,  six  were  African. 
Ghana,  my  own  country,  posted  one  of  the  highest 
gross domestic product growth rates, reaching as much 
as  14  per  cent.  Foreign  direct  investment  amounted 
to  some  $1.5  billion  across  various  sectors.  That  type 
of  sustained  growth  in  combination  with  security  and 
democracy can only ensure an Africa that will bear no 
resemblance to the ghost of its former self. It will be an 
Africa where we create equal opportunities for women 
to realize their full potential and where there is respect 
for the rights of all human beings. The new Africa will 
wean  itself  from  handouts  and  humanitarian  relief.  It 
will  not  continue  to  succumb  to  the  corruption  and 
oppression of despots.
The  new  Africa  will  stand  on  the  world  stage  as 
a  mutual  partner.  True  partnership,  of  course,  must 
be  based  on  equality.  When  the  founding  fathers  of 
the  United  Nations  established  the  Security  Council 
some  66  years  ago,  it  was  based  on  the  reality  of  the 
time.  Almost  seven  decades  later,  the  paradigms  and 
dynamics  of  the  world  have  shifted  dramatically.  The 
lines  that  divided  our  world  and  categorized  it  into 
hierarchies of first and third worlds — those lines were 
drawn  by  settlers  transforming  once  sovereign  lands 
into colonies and territories — all of those boundaries 
have now become blurred.
Technology 
has  made 
information  more 
immediately  accessible  to  the  general  public  and 
individuals more accessible to one another. The world 
that  we  know  today  is  not  the  same  world  our  fathers 
and  grandfathers  knew.  Our  world  is  smaller,  more 
integrated and familiar.
The  current  realities  call  for  greater  inclusion  in 
order to consolidate our common security. They inform 
Ghana’s call for an expansion of the Security Council 
to admit more members in order to have a meaningful 
impact on the many challenges that we all face. Africa 
is ready for that true and sincere partnership. Our time 
has come.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Ghana  for 
the statement he has just made.
18 
12-52201
A/67/PV.9
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
I  am  here  to  voice  to  the  Assembly  and  to  the 
whole  world  the  divine  and  humanitarian  message  of 
the learned men and women of my country, a message 
that  Iran’s  great  orator  and  poet,  Saadi,  presented  to 
humanity in his eternal poetry:
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ahmadinejad  (spoke  in  Farsi;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  We  have  gathered 
here  to  ponder  and  work  together  in  order  to  build  a 
better life for the entire human community and for our 
nations.
Coming from Iran — the land of glory and beauty, 
the  land  of  knowledge,  culture,  wisdom  and  morality, 
the  cradle  of  philosophy  and  mysticism,  the  land  of 
compassion  and  light,  the  land  of  scientists,  scholars, 
philosophers,  masters  of  literature  and  writers,  the 
land  of  Avicenna,  Ferdowsi,  Hafiz,  Maulana,  Attar, 
Khayyám  and  Shahriar  —  I  represent  a  great  and 
proud  nation  that  is  one  of  the  founders  of  human 
civilization  and  an  inheritor  of  respected  universal 
values. I represent a conscious nation that is dedicated 
to  the  cause  of  freedom,  peace  and  compassion,  a 
nation that has experienced the agony and bitter times 
of  aggression  and  imposed  wars  and  that  profoundly 
values the blessings of peace and stability.
I am now here for the eighth time in the eighth year 
of my service to the noble people in this Assembly of 
sisters  and  brothers  from  across  the  world  to  show  to 
the  world  that  my  noble  nation,  like  its  brilliant  past, 
has  a  global  vision  and  welcomes  any  effort  intended 
to provide and promote peace, stability and tranquility, 
which  can  be  only  realized  through  the  harmony, 
cooperation and joint management of the world.
“Human beings are members of a whole, 
In creation of one essence and soul, 
If one member is afflicted with pain, 
Other members uneasy will remain.”
I  have  talked  over  the  past  seven  years  about  the 
current  challenges,  solutions  and  prospects  of  the 
future  world.  Today,  I  want  to  raise  and  discuss  such 
issues from a different perspective. Thousands of years 
have  passed  since  the  children  of  Adam  —  peace  be 
upon him — started to settle down in various parts of 
the  Earth.  Peoples  of  different  colours,  inclinations, 
languages, customs and traditions persistently pursued 
their  aspirations  to  build  a  noble  society  for  a  more 
beautiful life, blessed with lasting peace, security and 
happiness.
Despite  all  of  the  efforts  on  the  part  of  righteous 
people and justice-seekers and the sufferings and pains 
endured  by  masses  of  people  in  the  quest  to  achieve 
happiness  and  victory,  the  history  of  humankind  is 
marked,  except  in  rare  cases,  with  unfulfilled  dreams 
and failures.
Imagine,  for  a  moment,  that  there  had  been  no 
egoism, distrust, malicious behaviour or dictatorships, 
with no one violating the rights of others. Imagine that 
humanitarian  values  had  been  viewed  as  the  criterion 
for social dignity instead of affluence and consumerism
Imagine  if  humankind  had  not  experienced  the 
Dark Ages and if the centres of power had not hindered 
the flourishing of knowledge and constructive thoughts. 
Imagine  if  the  Crusades  and  the  ensuing  periods  of 
slavery  and  colonialism  had  not  happened,  and  if  the 
successors  of  the  Dark  Ages  had  followed  a  course 
based on humanitarian principles.
Imagine  if  the  First  and  Second  World  Wars  in 
Europe,  the  wars  in  Korea,  Viet  Nam,  Africa,  Latin 
America  and  in  the  Balkans  not  happened,  and  if, 
instead  of  the  occupation  of  Palestine  and  imposition 
of  a  fake  Government,  displacement  and  genocide  of 
millions  of  people  around  the  globe,  the  truth  behind 
those wars based on justice had been revealed. Imagine 
if  Saddam  Hussein  had  not  invaded  Iran  and  the  big 
12-52201
19
A/67/PV.9
Powers had supported the rights of the Iranian people 
instead of siding with Saddam.
Imagine if the tragic incident of 11 September and 
the military actions against Afghanistan and Iraq that 
left millions killed and homeless had not happened, and 
if,  instead  of  killing  and  throwing  the  culprit  into  the 
sea  without  trial  or  without  informing  the  world  and 
people  of  America,  an  independent  fact-finding  team 
had  been  formed  to  make  the  general  public  aware  of 
the truth behind the incident and to prepare the way for 
the perpetrators to be brought to justice.
Imagine  if  extremism  or  terrorism  had  not  been 
used to secure political goals, if arms had been turned 
into pens, and if military expenditures had been used to 
promote well-being and amity among nations. Imagine 
if the drums of ethnic, religious or racial conflicts not 
been  beaten,  and  if  differences  had  not  been  used  for 
the purpose of advancing political agendas. 
Imagine  if  the  right  to  criticize  the  hegemonic 
policies  and  actions  of  world  Zionism  had  been 
recognized  so  as  to  allow  the  world  media  to  report 
freely and shed light on the realities, instead of making 
deceitful gestures of seeming to back freedom but in a 
way that offends the sanctities and most sacred beliefs 
of  human  beings  and  divine  messengers,  who,  as  the 
purest and most compassionate human beings, are the 
gift of the Almighty to humankind.
Imagine if the Security Council had not been under 
the  domination  of  a  limited  number  of  Governments, 
thus  preventing  the  United  Nations  from  carrying  out 
its  responsibilities  in  a  just  and  equitable  manner. 
Imagine  if  international  economic  institutions  had 
not  been  under  outside  pressures  and  were  allowed 
to  perform  their  duties  and  functions  by  using  their 
expertise based on fairness and justice.
Imagine  if  world  capitalists  had  not  weakened  or 
victimized national economies in order to make up for 
their  own  mistakes.  Imagine  if  integrity  and  honesty 
had prevailed in international relations and if all nations 
and  Governments  were  treated  equally  and  justly  in 
global  efforts  to  build  and  expand  happiness  for  all 
humankind. And imagine if tens of other unfavourable 
situations  had  not  occurred  throughout  history,  how 
beautiful  and  pleasant  our  lives  and  how  lovely  the 
history of humankind would have been.
Let  us  take  a  look  at  the  state  of  the  world  today. 
With  regard  to  the  economic  situation,  poverty  is  on 
the  rise  and  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  is 
widening.  The  total  foreign  debt  of  18  industrialized 
countries  exceeds  $60  trillion,  while  the  repayment 
of half of that amount would be sufficient to eradicate 
poverty 
the  world.  Economies  dependent  on 
consumerism and the exploitation of people only serve 
the interests of a limited number of countries.
in 
The  creation  of  worthless  paper  assets  through 
influence  and  control  over  the  world’s  economic 
centres  constitutes  the  greatest  abuse  in  history 
and  is  considered  a  major  contributor  to  the  global 
economic  crisis.  It  has  been  reported  that  $32  trillion 
in paper assets were printed by one Government alone. 
Development planning, based on a capitalist economy, 
which  runs  in  a  vicious  circle,  triggers  unhealthy  and 
devastating competition and is a failed practice.
With  regard  to  the  cultural  situation,  from  the 
standpoint of the politicians who control the centres of 
world power, concepts such as moral principles, purity, 
honesty,  integrity,  compassion  and  self-sacrifice  are 
typically rejected as defunct and outdated notions and 
an  impediment  to  the  accomplishment  of  their  goals. 
They openly talk about their disbelief in the relevance 
of ethics to political and social affairs.
Authentic  and  indigenous  cultures,  the  product 
of  centuries  —  old  national  efforts,  the  common 
denominator of which reflects profound human feelings 
and  love  towards  beauty  and  is  the  force  that  breeds 
diversity, cultural life and social dynamism, are under 
constant attacks and risk extinction. A specific lifestyle, 
devoid of individual or social identity, is being imposed 
on nations by the organized and systematic destruction 
and the humiliation of identities.
The  family,  the  most  noble  social  institution  and 
a  centre  emanating  love  and  humankind,  has  been 
seriously  weakened  and  its  constructive  role  is  on  the 
decline.  The  sublime  role  and  nature  of  women  as 
heavenly  beings,  manifestations  of  the  divine  image 
and beauty and the main pillars of every society, have 
been  damaged  and  abused  by  the  powerful  and  the 
wealthy. The human soul has become frustrated and the 
essence of humankind humiliated and suppressed.
With regard to the political and security situation, 
unilateralism,  the  application  of  double  standards 
and  the  imposition  of  wars,  instability  and  foreign 
occupation  in  order  to  ensure  economic  interests  and 
expand  dominance  over  sensitive  centres  of  the  world 
have  become  the  order  of  the  day.  The  arms  race  and 
20 
12-52201
intimidation by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass 
destruction  by  the  hegemonic  Powers  have  become 
prevalent.  Testing  new  generations  of  ultra-modern 
weaponry and the pledge to disclose those armaments 
in due time is now being used as part of a new language 
of threat against nations to coerce them into accepting 
a  new  era  of  hegemony.  The  continued  threat  by  the 
uncivilized Zionists to resort to military action against 
our great nation is a clear example of this bitter reality. 
A state of mistrust has cast its shadow on international 
relations,  while  there  is  no  trusted  or  just  authority 
to  help  resolve  world  conflicts.  No  one  feels  secure 
or  safe,  even  those  who  have  stockpiled  thousands  of 
atomic bombs and other arms in their arsenals.
With regard to the environment, which is a common 
resource  and  heritage  of  all  humankind  that  ensures 
man’s  survival,  it  has  been  seriously  damaged  and 
devastated as a result of the irresponsible and excessive 
use  of  resources,  particularly  by  capitalists  across  the 
world. That situation that has caused massive drought, 
flood, and pollution, inflicting irreparable damage and 
seriously jeopardizing human life on Earth.
Despite  advances  in  scientific  knowledge  and 
technology,  the  aspirations  of  Adam’s  children  have 
not  yet  been  fulfilled.  Does  anybody  believe  that  the 
continuation of the current order is capable of bringing 
about  happiness  for  human  society?  Today  everyone 
is  discontented  and  disappointed  with  the  current 
international  order.  Human  beings  do  not  deserve  the 
continuous  sufferings  brought  about  by  the  present 
situation.  The  God  of  wisdom  and  compassion,  who 
loves all human beings, has not ordained such a destiny 
for humankind. He has ordered humans, as the supreme 
creatures, to make the best and most beautiful life on 
Earth along the lines of justice, love and dignity.
We  must  therefore  think  of  a  solution.  Who  is 
responsible  for  all  the  sufferings  and  failures?  Some 
people  try  to  justify  it  by  saying  that  everything  is 
normal and a reflection of divine will, thereby putting 
the  blame  on  States  for  all  prevalent  vices  and  evils. 
They are of the opinion that it is States that succumb to 
discrimination  and  tyranny.  It  is  States  that  surrender 
to dictatorship and greed. 
It  is  States  that  submit  to  the  hegemony  and 
arrogance  of  expansionist  Powers.  It  is  States  that  are 
influenced by the propaganda tactics of other Powers, 
and most of the evils in our world are the result of their 
A/67/PV.9
passivity and willingness to live under the sway of the 
world Powers.
Such  are  the  arguments  raised  by  those  who  tend 
to  blame  States  for  the  unfavourable  conditions  that 
prevail  around  the  world,  with  the  aim  of  justifying 
the  attitudes  and  destructive  behaviour  of  the  ruling 
minority.  Such  supposedly  genuine  claims  can  in  no 
way  justify  continuing  with  the  current  oppressive 
international  order,  because  in  fact  poverty  is  being 
imposed on States, and the Powers’ are pursuing their 
ambitions  and  goals  either  by  deceit  or  by  resort  to 
force.  To  justify  their  inhuman  actions,  they  promote 
the theory of the survival of the fittest.
Yet in principle, what most Governments and States 
and  their  peoples  are  seeking  is  fairness;  they  submit 
humbly to what is right and what they want is to foster 
dignity,  prosperity  and  constructive  relations.  The 
vast  majority  of  people  have  no  interest  in  expanding 
their  territories,  nor  do  they  seek  enormous  wealth. 
They  have  no  disputes  among  themselves  on  matters 
of principle and have never played a part in unleashing 
the  disastrous  events  of  history.  I  do  not  believe  that 
Muslims, Christians, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists or others 
have  any  problems  among  themselves,  or  are  hostile 
to  one  another.  They  get  along  comfortably  and  live 
together in an atmosphere of peace and amity. They are 
all devoted to the cause of justice, purity and love.
The  general  tendency  of  States  has  always  been 
to  work  towards  positive  common  aspirations  to  the 
qualities  that  reflect  great  beauty  and  nobility,  divine 
and  human.  The  current  abysmal  state  of  the  world 
and the bitter incidents of its history are due mainly to 
iniquitous management by the self-proclaimed centres 
of power, which have dedicated themselves to the Devil. 
The order that is rooted in the anti-human concepts of 
slavery  and  colonialism,  old  and  new,  is  responsible 
for  poverty,  corruption,  ignorance,  oppression  and 
discrimination in every corner of the world.
The current world order has certain characteristics. 
It  is  founded  on  materialism  and  thus  is  unmoored 
from  moral  values.  It  has  been  shaped  by  selfishness, 
deception,  hatred  and  animosity.  It  believes 
in 
labelling human beings, humiliating other nations and 
dominating  and  trampling  on  the  rights  of  others.  It 
seeks  to  expand  its  domination  by  spreading  discord 
and conflict among ethnic groups and nations. It aims 
to monopolize power, wealth, science and technology. 
The  policies  of  the  world’s  main  centres  of  power  are 
12-52201
21
A/67/PV.9
based  on  the  principles  of  domination  and  conquest. 
Such  Powers  seek  only  supremacy;  they  do  not  desire 
peace  and  they  definitely  do  not  promote  it  in  the 
service of their nations.
Are  we  to  believe  that  those  who  spend  hundreds 
of  millions  of  dollars  on  election  campaigns  have  the 
interests  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  at  heart?  Despite 
what the big political parties in the capitalist countries 
claim, the money that goes into election campaigns is 
usually  nothing  but  an  investment  on  the  part  of  the 
ruling parties. In such countries, people have to vote for 
parties that represent only a small percentage of voters. 
The will and views of the masses have little impact or 
influence on big decisions, especially those concerning 
major domestic and foreign policies in the United States 
and  Europe.  Their  voices  go  unheard  even  when  they 
constitute  99  per  cent  of  their  societies.  Human  and 
ethical values are sacrificed in order to win votes, and 
any willingness to listen to the demands of the people 
has  become  merely  a  tool  to  be  used  at  election  time. 
The current world order is discriminatory and based on 
injustice.
What should be done, and what is the way out of the 
current situation? There is no doubt that the world is in 
need  of  a  new  order  and  a  fresh  way  of  thinking.  We 
need  an  order  that  recognizes  man  as  God’s  supreme 
creature,  possessing  both  material  and  spiritual 
qualities and a pure and divine nature, filled with the 
desire  to  seek  justice  and  truth;  that  aims  to  restore 
human dignity and believes in universal happiness and 
the  possibility  of  perfection;  that  seeks  peace,  lasting 
security and welfare for everyone, in all walks of life, 
around the globe; that is founded on trust and kindness 
and  brings  our  thoughts,  hearts  and  hands  closer 
together  and  in  which  rulers  love  their  people;  that  is 
just  and  fair,  makes  everybody  equal  before  the  law, 
and has no double standards; that allows world leaders 
to see themselves as committed servants of their people, 
not their superiors; and that sees authority as a sacred 
gift  from  a  people  to  its  rulers,  not  an  opportunity  to 
amass power and wealth.
Can  such  an  order  exist  without  the  contribution 
of  all  to  the  way  the  world  is  run?  It  is  abundantly 
evident  that  when  all  peoples  and  Governments  start 
to  think,  commit  themselves  to  the  aforementioned 
principles,  focus  on  internationally  important  issues 
and participate in decision-making, it will be possible 
for  their  desires  to  be  realized.  In  raising  collective 
awareness,  the  possibility  of  governing  the  world 
jointly becomes more real and the chances of putting it 
into practice increase.
Together, therefore, we must trust in God Almighty 
and  stand  up  to  the  rapacious  minority  with  all  our 
strength  in  order  to  isolate  them,  so  that  they  can  no 
longer  decide  the  destiny  of  other  nations.  We  must 
believe  in  the  bounty  of  God’s  blessing  and  mercy 
and seek it within the integration and unity of human 
society. Governments that are born of free national will 
must  believe  in  their  own  unlimited  capabilities  and 
know that they can achieve victory if they fight fiercely 
to combat an unjust world order and to defend human 
rights.
We  must  lay  the  ground  for  united  world  rule  by 
insisting  on  justice  in  all  its  aspects,  strengthening 
unity  and  friendship  and  expanding  economic,  social, 
cultural  and  political  interaction  in  independent  and 
specialized  organizations.  We  must  care  about  the 
interests of all the people of the world and join hands 
to reform the current United Nations entities with joint 
efforts and cooperation. The United Nations belongs to 
its  Member  States,  and  therefore  the  existence  of  any 
discrimination among those Members is a great insult 
to all. Any discrimination or monopolization of power 
in the Organization is unacceptable.
We must make a more coordinated effort to create, 
promote  and  firmly  establish  the  language  needed 
to  enable  us  to  design  the  bodies  needed  for  a  united 
world  rule  that  is  imbued  with  justice,  love,  freedom 
and  amity.  Participation  in  global  management  is  the 
basis of lasting peace. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  second  largest 
transregional  group  after  the  United  Nations,  held  its 
sixteenth  summit  in  Tehran  with  the  motto  of  “Joint 
global  management”,  cognizant  of  the  importance 
of  this  issue  and  of  the  shortcomings  of  the  current 
mismanagement 
the  emergence  of  crises  and 
problems afflicting the world today. During the summit, 
participating  Heads  of  State  and  representatives  of 
more  than  120  countries  underscored  the  necessity  of 
more  serious  and  effective  participation  of  all  nations 
in global management.
in 
Fortunately, we are now at a historic juncture. On 
the one hand, Marxism is no longer around; it has been 
practically  eliminated  from  management  systems.  On 
the  other  hand,  capitalism  is  bogged  down  in  a  self-
made quagmire. Indeed, it has reached a deadlock and 
appears to be unable to come up with any noteworthy 
22 
12-52201
solutions  to  the  world’s  various  economic,  political, 
security  and  cultural  problems.  The  Non-Aligned 
Movement is proud to again emphasize the rightfulness 
of its historic decision to reject the power polarities and 
unbridled hegemony ruling the world. On behalf of the 
members  of  Non-Aligned  Movement,  I  would  like  to 
invite all the countries in the world to play a more active 
role in making it possible for everybody to contribute to 
global decision-making processes. The need to remove 
structural  barriers  and  to  encourage  the  process  of 
universal participation in global management has never 
been greater.
The  United  Nations  lacks  the  efficiency  to  bring 
about the required changes. If this inefficiency persists, 
nations will lose hope in the ability of global structures 
to  defend  their  rights.  If  the  United  Nations  is  not 
restructured, international interactions and the spirit of 
collective global cooperation will be tarnished, and the 
standing of the United Nations will be damaged.
The  United  Nations,  which  was  established  with 
the  purpose  of  expanding  justice  and  reinstituting 
universal human rights, has in practice been engulfed 
by  discrimination,  preparing  a  supportive  ground  for 
domination by a few powerful countries. Consequently, 
United  Nations  inefficiency  has  increased.  Moreover, 
the  existence  of  the  veto  right  and  monopolization  of 
power  in  the  Security  Council  have  made  it  nearly 
impossible to defend the rights of the nations.
The issue of United Nations restructuring is vital; 
the need has been emphasized time and again by State 
representatives. That goal that yet to be accomplished. 
I would like to urge the States Members of the United 
Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  and  his  colleagues 
to  place  the  issue  high  on  their  agenda  and  to  devise 
an  appropriate  mechanism  to  make  it  happen.  The 
Non-Aligned Movement stands ready to aid the United 
Nations in that essential endeavour. 
Creating  peace  and  lasting  security  with  a  decent 
life  for  all,  although  a  great  and  historic  mission,  can 
be accomplished. Almighty God has not left us alone in 
that mission and has said that it will surely happen. If 
it does not, then that will contradict his wisdom. God 
has  promised  us  a  man  of  kindness,  a  man  who  loves 
people  and  absolute  justice,  a  man  who  is  a  perfect 
human  being,  named  the  Imam  Al-Mahdi  —  a  man 
who will come in the company of Jesus Christ and the 
righteous.  By  using  the  inherent  potential  of  all  the 
worthy men and women of all nations — I repeat, the 
A/67/PV.9
inherent potential of all the worthy men and women of 
all nations — he will lead humanity into achieving its 
glorious and eternal ideals.
The arrival of the ultimate saviour will mark a new 
beginning,  a  rebirth  and  a  resurrection.  It  will  be  the 
beginning  of  peace,  lasting  security  and  genuine  life. 
His  arrival  will  be  the  end  of  oppression,  immorality, 
poverty  and  discrimination  and  the  beginning  of 
justice,  love  and  empathy.  He  will  come,  and  he  will 
cut  through  ignorance,  superstition  and  prejudice  by 
opening  the  gates  of  science  and  knowledge.  He  will 
establish  a  world  brimming  with  prudence,  and  he 
will  prepare  the  ground  for  the  collective,  active  and 
constructive participation of all in global management. 
He  will  come  to  grant  kindness,  hope,  freedom  and 
dignity to all humankind as a gift. He will come so that 
humankind will taste the pleasure of being human and 
being in the company of other humans.
He  will  come  so  that  hands  will  be  joined,  hearts 
will be filled with love, and thoughts will be purified and 
will be at the service of the security, welfare, happiness, 
well-being and peace of all. He will come to return all 
the children of Adam, irrespective of their skin color, 
to their innate origin after a long history of separation 
and division, linking them to eternal happiness and joy. 
The arrival of the ultimate saviour, Jesus Christ and the 
righteous,  will  bring  about  an  eternally  bright  future 
for  humankind,  not  by  force  or  by  waging  wars  but 
through  thought-awakening  and  developing  kindness 
in everyone. Their arrival will breathe new life into the 
cold and frozen hearts and bodies of the world. He will 
bless humankind with a spring that puts an end to our 
winter of ignorance, poverty and war with the tidings 
of  a  season  of  blossoming.  He  will  end  the  winter  of 
ignorance for humankind.
Now we can sense the sweet scent and the soulful 
breeze  of  the  spring,  a  spring  that  has  just  begun  and 
that does not belong to a specific race, ethnicity, nation 
or region, a spring that will soon reach all the territories 
in Asia, Europe, Africa and the Americas. He will be 
the  spring  of  all  the  justice  seekers,  freedom  lovers 
and the followers of heavenly prophets. He will be the 
spring of humankind and the greenery of all ages. Let 
us join hands and clear the way for his eventual arrival, 
with empathy and cooperation, in harmony and unity. 
Let  us  march  on  this  path  to  salvation  for  the  thirsty 
souls of humankind to taste immortal joy and grace.
12-52201
23
A/67/PV.9
Long live this spring, long live this spring — again 
and again, long live this spring.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the 
Republic of Kenya
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Kenya.
Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Mwai Kibaki, 
President of the Republic of Kenya, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Kibaki:  It  is  an  honour  and  a  pleasure 
for me to once again address the General Assembly.
Kenya is at a time in its history that is full of hope 
for a bright future. Over the past 10 years, our country 
has  enjoyed  a  sustained  blossoming  of  democracy. 
In  the  year  2010,  Kenya  adopted  a  new  Constitution. 
With  that  constitution,  we  further  secured  the  human 
rights and civil liberties of our citizens and entrenched 
constitutional governance and justice.
Equally important, over the past 10 years, we have 
scored  significant  victories  against  diseases  including 
HIV  and  AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other 
childhood  and  adult  maladies.  Hundreds  of  thousands 
more  children  have  found  their  way  into  school  and 
many  more  adults  have  found  new  life  skills  through 
training  and  capacity-building.  We  have  also  pulled 
hundreds of thousands of Kenyans out of poverty and 
put  them  on  the  pathway  to  economic  independence 
and  self-reliance.  In  doing  so,  we  have  also  expanded 
our  economic  base,  opening  up  new  and  extensive 
infrastructure,  energy  and  information  technology 
projects.
The  achievements  in  our  country  have  been 
attained  through  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  sound 
policies, improved governance and open and innovative 
democracy.  However,  as  all  Kenyans  recognize, 
we  still  have  a  lot  more  work  to  do.  Poverty,  disease 
and  unemployment  still  remain  big  challenges  for 
us.  Nevertheless,  I  am  confident  that  we  will  seize 
opportunities to innovate and invest, and thus keep our 
country on the road to even greater prosperity.
In  accordance  with  this  year’s  theme,  “Bringing 
about adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or situations by peaceful means”, Kenya’s achievements 
over  the  past  10  years  have  been  built  on  the  bedrock 
of the peaceful resolution of disputes and situations in 
our  country.  In  addition,  it  is  our  belief  that  inclusive 
solutions to disputes can bring about lasting peace. We 
know from our own history and that of our neighbours 
that when conflicts and disagreements are not resolved 
peacefully what follows are the tragic consequences of 
suffering, bloodshed and the collapse of economic and 
social development.
That  is  why  we  are  convinced  that  Kenya’s  own 
well-being  and  prosperity  are  hinged  on  sustained 
peace,  security,  stability  and  inclusive  democracy  in 
our  region.  My  country  therefore  remains  supportive 
of  efforts  spearheaded  by  the  African  Union,  the 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development,  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
and the East African Community for the peaceful and 
inclusive  settlement  of  disputes  and  situations.  Such 
regional efforts are central to the future of multilateral 
peacebuilding.  They  must  be  the  building  blocks  of 
international efforts to maintain peace and security in 
our region and the world.
Kenya therefore welcomes the Secretary-General’s 
initiative  to  convene  a  series  of  high-level  meetings 
during  this  week  to  discuss  the  political  and  security 
situations  in  Somalia,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan.  With  regard  to 
Somalia,  Kenya  joined  the  African  Union  Mission  in 
Somalia (AMISOM), and through the combined efforts 
of  AMISOM  and  Transitional  Federal  Government 
forces, we have witnessed the progressive liberation of 
large  areas  of  Somalia  from  Al-Shabaab  occupation. 
That development enabled the Transitional Government 
to focus on the implementation of the Kampala Accord 
road map, with a view to forming a unified Government 
anchored on the pillars of good governance and the rule 
of  law.  We  are  encouraged  by  recent  developments  in 
24 
12-52201
Somalia, in particular the election of a new President, 
Prime  Minister  and  Parliament  and  the  adoption  of  a 
new Constitution.
There are millions of Somalis who are forced to live 
outside Somalia. More than 650,000 are in one refugee 
camp  in  Kenya.  Following  the  liberation  of  large 
sections  of  south-central  Somalia  from  Al-Shabaab, 
we  look  forward  to  working  with  the  relevant  United 
Nations  agencies  and  the  international  community 
in  facilitating  the  return  of  Somali  refugees  to  those 
areas. That will enable the effective participation of all 
Somalis in rebuilding Somalia.
With  regard  to  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  and  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  Kenya  is  appreciative  of 
the  positive  developments  of  4  August  related  to  the 
long-standing dispute over oil resources. We hope that 
that  important  agreement  marks  a  first  step  towards 
reducing  tensions  between  the  two  sister  countries. 
Kenya also appreciates the efforts of the international 
community,  both  directly  and  through  the  African 
Union,  and  encourages  the  two  sides  to  work  towards 
reaching  a  compromise.  I  especially  commend  the 
African  Union  High-level 
Implementation  Panel 
for  its  determination  and  leadership  in  steering  the 
negotiations. We are confident that both countries will 
agree to urgently address contentious issues on border 
disputes. Kenya will continue to support efforts to find 
a peaceful and lasting solution to disputes between the 
people  of  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan.  We  encourage 
the  international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
fast-track support for social and economic development 
in  South  Sudan  for  the  benefit  of  citizens  of  the  new 
country.
Kenyans  are  saddened  by  the  great  suffering  and 
bloodshed  endured  by  populations  around  the  world, 
especially in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and 
Central  Africa.  It  is  our  belief  that  nations  should 
embrace  dialogue  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  instead  of  rushing  to  arms,  for  suffering  and 
bloodshed will ensue. We call upon all warring parties 
in  the  world  to  lay  down  their  arms  and  pursue  the 
path of peace, dialogue and the inclusive resolution of 
disputes.
We  also  remain  concerned  that  no  progress  has 
been achieved on the issue of Palestine. As I said last 
year here in the General Assembly, Kenya believes in 
the two-State solution, in which the territorial integrity 
of  Palestine  within  the  1967  borders  is  upheld  and 
A/67/PV.9
the  peace  and  security  of  Israel  are  both  assured  and 
guaranteed. In that regard, it is our hope that Palestine 
will soon be welcomed into the community of nations 
with full membership in the United Nations.
There can be no lasting peace without sustainable 
and  inclusive  development.  Kenya  therefore  greatly 
appreciates  the  achievements  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  held  earlier 
this  year  in  Brazil.  Kenya  is  encouraged  that,  in  line 
with recommendations proposed during the Conference, 
the General Assembly has placed high on its agenda for 
this  session  some  of  the  decisions  we  took  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro.  That  is  indeed  an  indication  of  our  collective 
political will to ensure that the decisions contained in 
the outcome document are implemented. 
the  upgrading  of 
Key among those is the decision to strengthen the 
institutional  framework  for  sustainable  development, 
including 
the  United  Nations 
Environment  Programme  (UNEP).  Kenya  appreciates 
that historic decision to strengthen and upgrade UNEP, 
which  will  enable  it  to  fulfil  its  mandate  effectively. 
Kenya  reiterates  its  commitment  to  continue  to  host 
and  facilitate  the  work  of  a  revamped  UNEP,  and  we 
look forward to its eventual transformation into a full-
fledged organization for the global environment.
Finally, we are all aware that many of our modern 
disputes  and  conflicts  revolve  around  concerns  about 
water,  available  land  and  agriculture,  forests,  rivers 
and  lakes.  Dealing  with  our  environment  and  the 
effects of climate change is therefore an important part 
of  resolving  disputes  and  conflicts  around  the  world. 
Strengthening  global  institutions  that  deal  with  the 
environment,  biodiversity  and  climate  change  must 
therefore be a core part of our strategy to avoid conflict 
and disputes among the peoples of the world.
It  is  important  that,  as  the  community  of  nations, 
we  invest  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes. However, we must invest first in the prevention 
of disputes and, secondly, in addressing the root causes 
of  conflicts,  such  as  poverty,  inequality,  disregard 
for  international  law  and  disrespect  for  each  other’s 
sociocultural and religious beliefs, among others. Only 
by addressing the root causes of conflict and disputes 
can we hope to find lasting peace in a just and equitable 
world.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
12-52201
25
A/67/PV.9
of the Republic of Kenya for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, President 
of the Republic of Poland
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Poland.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bronisław 
Komorowski, President of the Republic of Poland, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Komorowski  (spoke  in  Polish;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): May I offer 
my  warm  congratulations  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his 
election  to  the  position  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session.
Following the experiences of recent years, the world 
is poised at a difficult moment in its development. The 
weakness  of  international  institutions  in  the  face  of 
economic,  security,  humanitarian  and  environmental 
problems  is  indisputable,  and  yet  those  institutions 
were  designed  to  resolve  such  problems.  That  also 
applies  to  the  Security  Council,  especially  in  the 
context  of  the  conf lict  in  Syria.  It  is  also  clear  that 
international  financial  institutions  are  not  capable  of 
handling the destructive volatility of financial markets, 
which results from the opaqueness and arbitrariness of 
powerful private interests operating in this area.
The  signals  coming  from  Asia  point 
to  an 
undiminished  number  of  tensions  and  disputes.  We 
have been following with concern the tension resulting 
from  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme.  We  are  worried 
by  the  increasingly  tangible  threat  of  the  proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  of  an  intensified 
arms race among the Gulf States. 
The  results  of  the  Mission  in  Afghanistan  are  not 
entirely  satisfactory.  We  must  learn  a  lesson  from  the 
shortcomings  of  the  strategy  devised  for  that  country 
thus far. The approach that suggests the military option 
first  is  not  a  suitable  method  for  resolving  complex 
internal conflicts.
The  hopes  raised  by  the  Arab  Spring  have  been 
justified,  but  only  to  a  certain  extent.  The  civil  war 
in  Syria  and  the  resulting  toll  in  lives,  as  well  as  the 
United Nations and Arab League’s inability to contain 
it,  cast  a  shadow  across  the  entire  region.  The  tragic 
death  of  American  diplomats  and  the  circumstances 
of their death should also prompt reflection among all 
those persuaded of the automatic nature of democratic 
transformations.
When we signed the United Nations Charter, which 
is  the  constitution  of  the  contemporary  international 
order  and  testifies  to  our  faith  in  a  better  world,  we 
pledged  our  readiness  to  make  concerted  efforts  and 
cooperate  in  pursuit  of  the  ideals  invoked  in  it.  One 
of  the  main  paths  to  a  more  secure  and  fair  world  is 
the peaceful resolution of disputes and conflicts. That 
concept is the main theme of this year’s session of the 
Assembly,  and  the  choice  of  that  subject  is  timely.  In 
recent years, we have seen numerous occasions in which 
a commitment pursuant to Article 2 of the Charter was 
ignored,  with  very  dramatic  consequences.  The  best 
example is the crisis in Syria, but such situations also 
occur in other parts of the world. 
Throughout the twentieth century, the international 
community  developed  various  means  and  ways  to 
achieve  a  peaceful  settlement  to  disputes  at  both  the 
global and regional level. Volumes have been written on 
the  subject.  There  are  many  international  institutions 
involved  in  this  field,  as  well  as  many  renowned  and 
prominent experts, diplomats and politicians. Some of 
them,  including  Jimmy  Carter  and  Martti  Ahtisaari, 
have  been  rightly  acknowledged  by  being  awarded  a 
Nobel  Peace  Prize.  They  were  able  to  effectively  use 
existing  procedures  to  quell  conflicts  and  peacefully 
resolve  difficult  disputes  of  an 
international  or 
internal  nature  that  otherwise  could  have  escalated 
into international conflicts. However, success was not 
possible  everywhere.  If  success  was  not  achieved,  it 
was because of the absence of one crucially important 
factor without which it is impossible to settle a dispute 
in a peaceful, lasting and just manner, namely, realizing 
the obvious truth that without compromise one cannot 
arrive  at  a  lasting  solution  to  any  conflict.  That  is 
embedded in the very nature of conflict.
26 
12-52201
In that connection, I would like to refer to the Polish 
experience with the Solidarity movement and the round 
table talks of the spring of 1989. Both sides of the deep 
social conflict of those days — the communist regime, 
on  the  one  hand,  and  the  champions  of  democratic 
transformation  who  ultimately  strove  to  overthrow 
communism, on the other — demonstrated wisdom and 
were thereby able to reach a compromise, even if it was 
not fully satisfactory to either party. It was nevertheless 
a  compromise  that  opened  perspectives  for  further 
change,  which  extended  beyond  Poland  to  the  entire 
region of Central and Eastern Europe. What made that 
compromise possible  was  the  capacity  for  self-control 
by  those  actors  who  ultimately  strove  to  achieve  a 
revolutionary  change.  Let  us  recall  that  all  previous 
attempts  undertaken  by  the  democratic  opposition 
outside  the  system  ended  in  military  interventions, 
bloodshed,  tens  of  thousands  of  refugees  and  further 
repression.  That  could  have  also  been  the  case  on  a 
massive scale in the spring of 1989.
In  the  long  run,  the  capacity  for  self-control  and 
the strength of a wise compromise make a much better 
solution than pushing one’s own demands and trying to 
advance one’s own arguments by force. We know all too 
well what happens in the latter case; it usually ends in 
people taking up arms in order to prove their rightness 
by military means. In line with the rules of geopolitics, 
both  parties  to  a  conflict  seek  allies  abroad.  Finally, 
the logic of holding each other in check and an “all or 
nothing” mentality start to prevail. Costs are no longer 
counted. As the conflict continues, the scale of the crisis 
grows. The situation develops into a truly international 
one.  In  order  to  fend  off  any  further  escalation  of 
antagonisms,  major  humanitarian  and  stabilization 
operations supported by the army and police force are 
inevitable. The process of reconciliation, normalization 
and reconstruction is greatly delayed.
We have seen that process in various situations in 
different  countries.  It  can  be  avoided  provided  that, 
from the very outset of a dispute, both sides anticipate 
dialogue,  acknowledge  the  limits  of  what  is  feasible, 
show  sensitivity  to  the  potential  costs  of  conflict  and 
seek  compromise.  The  art  of  self-control  and  of  wise 
compromise,  embodied  by  Nobel  Prize  winners  Lech 
Walesa and Nelson Mandela, are worth promoting. 
However,  this  approach  is  not  promoted  often 
enough  in  the  context  of  efforts  for  peaceful  conflict 
resolution  and  situations  that  may  lead  to  conflict. 
Syria  is  a  dramatic  example  of  how  a  wasted  chance 
A/67/PV.9
for  compromise  can  unfold.  We  expect  that  an  end 
will be soon put to the bloodshed in Syria and that the 
conflict will be settled on the basis of United Nations 
principles,  using  the  instruments  available  to  the 
Organization.  May  the  new  United  Nations  envoy  for 
that conflict never lack determination in the fulfilment 
of his mission.
After many centuries of antagonism, disputes and 
conflicts  in  Europe,  yet  another  preventive  method 
was  invented  in  order  to  do  away  with  wars  and  stop 
differences  and  competing  claims  from  turning  into 
bloody  crises.  That  method  is  the  process  of  regional 
integration,  which  was  ushered  in  after  the  Second 
World  War  by  the  creation  of  the  European  Coal  and 
Steel  Community.  The  project’s  hidden  intention  was 
to  firmly  establish  the  “no  war”  principle.  It  was  not 
enough  to  ban  war,  as  had  been  done  through  the 
Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928. What was needed was for 
war to be made impossible by the process of integration. 
Through  the  establishment  of  the  Community  and  its 
expansion to new areas of integration, including most of 
the countries on the continent, the disputes threatening 
Europe’s security and peace were consigned to the past. 
Even if that experience cannot be used in a completely 
copy-and-paste manner, it can still serve as an example 
to other regions of the world.
The  plight  of  civilian  populations,  in  particular 
children, is the most dramatic consequence of the lack 
to  self-control  and  the  absence  of  a  culture  of,  and 
willingness  to,  compromise  in  contemporary  disputes 
and  internal  and  international  conflicts.  The  methods 
and means of combat spare soldiers, sometimes at the 
expense  of  innocent  civilians,  especially  children, 
who  often  become  a  target  of  military  operations. 
This  phenomenon  is  related  to  efforts  to  move  the 
aggression  to  the  other  side.  The  responsibility  for 
civilian casualties, even if unintended, can also fall on 
international and peacekeeping forces. 
Based on experience gathered by the international 
community,  the  contentious  idea  of  humanitarian 
intervention has been replaced with the concept of the 
“responsibility to protect”. I believe that this was a very 
wise path to take to end the stalemate that emerged in 
this  area  more  than  10  years  ago.  The  concept  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  has  been  approved  by  the 
entire international community and has been a United 
Nations norm since 2005.
12-52201
27
A/67/PV.9
As we know, a norm and its practice may sometimes 
be  worlds  apart.  Given  the  developments  that  have 
unfolded over the past decade, including several events 
in  North  Africa,  and  in  the  light  of  the  humanitarian 
tragedies,  in  particular  the  suffering  and  death  of 
thousands of innocent children, that should stir people’s 
hearts  and  consciences,  we  cannot  afford  for  the 
responsibility to protect to remain a dead letter. What 
we put forward for the Assembly’s consideration is that 
the  United  Nations  should  initiate  work  on  defining 
a  catalogue  of  instruments  to  be  applied  in  situations 
that  entail  the  responsibility  to  protect.  This  is  about 
the  international  community  being  effective  without 
exceeding a mission’s mandate and inciting disputes on 
that count.
This  is  a  particularly  important  consideration  for 
us  in  Poland.  Our  nation  has  more  than  once  fallen 
victim to crimes perpetrated on a mass scale. Prompted 
by 
that  awareness,  Tadeusz  Mazowiecki,  special 
rapporteur  on  crimes  in  the  Balkans  for  the  Human 
Rights Commission, embarked on his mission 20 years 
ago. The effectiveness of the international community 
when faced with flagrant violations of human rights on 
a mass scale and crimes and suffering that call for rapid 
reaction, as in Syria these days, depends largely upon 
the credibility of our action in previous such situations. 
We must always act in good faith and in line with the 
mandate given to us.
I am speaking on behalf of a country that, over the 
past 20 years, has managed to travel the difficult road 
from a totalitarian regime, the collapse of its economy 
and  mass  social  unrest  curbed  by  force  to  democratic 
stability,  economic  growth  and  the  ability  to  support 
peaceful  transformations  beyond  its  borders.  Thirty 
years  ago,  when  martial  law  was  imposed  in  order  to 
crush  the  Solidarity  revolution,  it  was  suggested  that 
Poland’s attempt to enter the world of democracy would 
entail potential imbalances between the East and West, 
and  even  a  war  between  the  Warsaw  Pact  nations  and 
NATO — in effect, a world war. 
Fortunately,  those  days  are  gone.  Hardly  anyone 
would think in such terms now. Today, Poland is a free 
country that develops its relations without limitations, 
shares  its  experience,  spreads  the  word  about  the 
benefits derived from our transition to democracy and 
extends  development  and  humanitarian  aid.  We  are  a 
country  that  has  had  a  positive  economic  growth  rate 
for the past 20 years. 
to 
the  stability  of 
Poland’s  commitment 
the 
European integration process mirrors our understanding 
of the process as one that serves the security of all of 
Europe and its neighbourhood. That is why we actively 
endeavour to bring together the two parts of Europe once 
divided by the Cold War. The European Union Eastern 
Partnership programme was designed to that end, with 
Poland and Sweden as its initiators and promoters. 
Poland  readily  offers  support 
to  and  shares 
experiences  with  countries  and  societies  embarking 
on  the  road  to  democracy  in  North  Africa,  Asia  and 
Europe.  To  the  extent  we  are  able,  Poland  is  involved 
in  developing  contact  with  countries  from  different 
regions  and  civilizations.  Our  policy  in  that  regard 
arises  from  the  conviction  that  an  effective  United 
Nations  is  as  urgently  needed  today  as  it  was  in  the 
days  of  the  Cold  War.  The  world  cannot  be  driven  by 
a  bipolar  or  multipolar  concert  of  Powers.  Of  course, 
although  the  Powers  will  not  cease  to  exist,  stability 
and  regulation  of  the  international  legal  order  will 
require the more extensive engagement of multilateral 
institutions, as well as norms and mechanisms securing 
full  observance.  Only  the  United  Nations  system  can 
ensure all of those. 
In  order  to  improve  its  effectiveness,  we  need 
to  reform  the  Organization  along  the  way,  respect 
agreed  norms  and  honour  our  commitments  in  good 
faith.  We  recall  that  a  return  to  a  Hobbesian  world  is 
always possible and that some people continue actively 
to  bring  it  about.  That  is  why  Poland  felt  sorely  tried 
under  the  effects  of  the  twentieth-century  dramas. 
However, Poland is committed to promoting respect for 
the principles, integrity and full implementation of the 
output of our Organization. Such action will ensure that 
the tasks we propose will be carried out effectively and 
the  United  Nations  will  meet  the  expectations  we  set 
out at its very beginning and continue to promote today.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Poland for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
28 
12-52201
Address by Mr. Mohamed Morsy, President of the 
Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Mr.  Mohamed  Morsy,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed 
Morsy, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Morsy  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  gives  me 
great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić and his 
friendly country on his assumption of the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its current session. I wish him 
every success in his task.
I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere  appreciation 
to  the  former  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  and  the  brotherly 
State of Qatar for their outstanding stewardship of the 
previous session. I would also like to pay tribute to the 
Secretary-General for striving tirelessly to preserve the 
role of the Organization and enhance its effectiveness. 
I assure him of Egypt’s support in all efforts extended 
for that purpose.
My  presence  here  today  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  has  multiple  significance.  I  am  the  first 
Egyptian  civilian  President  elected  democratically 
and  freely,  following  a  great  peaceful  revolution 
hailed  by  the  entire  world.  The  revolution  enjoyed 
genuine  legitimacy  thanks  to  the  efforts  and  will  of 
all Egyptians, inside and outside of Egypt, and by the 
grace  of  God.  Today,  every  Egyptian  shares  a  sense 
of self-confidence that allows each of them to claim a 
higher moral and cultural ground. 
We  have  taken  several  effective  steps  on  the  road 
towards  establishing  the  modern  State  aspired  to  by 
all  Egyptians  —  one  that  is  in  tune  with  the  present, 
based  on  the  rule  of  law,  democracy  and  respect  for 
human  rights,  a  constitutional  State  that  will  not 
compromise the values firmly embedded in the souls of 
all Egyptians, a State that seeks justice, truth, freedom, 
dignity and social justice.
A/67/PV.9
The  Egyptian  revolution  that  was  founded  on  the 
legitimacy  that  I  represent before  the  Assembly  today 
was  not  the  product  of  a  fleeting  moment,  or  a  brief 
uprising. Nor was it the product of the winds of change 
of a certain spring or autumn. Rather, that revolution, 
and  all  the  ones  preceding  it  and  following  it  in  the 
region,  were  triggered  by  the  long-term  struggle  of 
indigenous  national  movements  seeking  a  life  of 
pride  and  dignity  for  all  citizens.  It  therefore  reflects 
the wisdom of history and is a clear warning to those 
attempting  to  put  their  interests  before  those  of  their 
peoples.
We  are  therefore  striving  to  realize  a  new  vision 
of  Egypt  that  will  serve  as  a  programme  of  action 
for  the  world  and  that  will  guide  our  cooperation 
with  the  international  community  in  a  spirit  of 
equality  and  mutual  respect  through  the  promotion 
of  non-intervention  in  the  affairs  of  States  and  the 
implementation of international principles, agreements 
and  instruments.  Today  we  reiterate  our  commitment, 
particularly to the Charter of the United Nations, which 
Egypt took part in drafting.
From  that  perspective,  we  continue  efforts  to 
resolve problems and address their root causes, without 
relinquishing the principles of law or well-established 
values  that,  if  compromised,  could  lead  to  grave 
international  consequences  if  the  rational  and  sincere 
among us choose not to pay heed.
The  first  issue  that  the  global  community  must 
exert  all  efforts  to  resolve,  on  the  basis  of  justice 
and  dignity,  is  the  Palestinian  cause.  Many  decades 
have  passed  since  the  Palestinian  people  expressed 
their  desire  to  regain  their  full  rights  and  build  their 
independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital. Despite 
the continued struggle of the people via all legitimate 
means to attain their rights, and despite the acceptance 
by  their  representatives  of  the  resolutions  adopted  by 
the  international  community  as  a  basis  for  resolving 
problems, this issue of international legitimacy has to 
date,  unfortunately,  remained  without  a  resolution  to 
achieve  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people. And the resolutions agreed on the issue remain 
far from implementation.
The fruits of dignity and freedom must not remain 
out  of  reach  of  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people.  It  is 
shameful  that  the  free  world  has  accepted,  without 
regard  to  the  justifications  provided,  the  continued 
denial,  by  a  member  of  the  international  community, 
12-52201
29
A/67/PV.9
of  the  rights  of  a  nation  that,  for  decades,  has  longed 
for independence. It is also disgraceful that settlement 
activities have continued in the Palestinian territories, 
along  with  the  delay  in  implementing  decisions  of 
international legitimacy.
Proceeding  from  the  perspective  of  defending 
truth,  freedom  and  dignity,  and  from  my  duty  to 
support  our  Palestinian  brothers  and  sisters,  I  place 
the  international  community  face  to  face  with  its 
obligatory  responsibilities  requiring  the  achievement 
of a just and comprehensive peace, an end to all forms 
of occupation of Arab land and the implementation of 
relevant international resolutions. I call for immediate 
and  significant  measures  to  put  an  end  to  occupation, 
settlement  activities  and  any  alteration  to  the  identity 
of occupied Jerusalem.
I  call  for  peace  that  will  establish  a  sovereign 
Palestinian State and achieve the security and stability 
long sought by the peoples of the region. On the same 
basis, I assure the Assembly of Egypt’s full support of 
any course of action that Palestine decides to follow in 
the United Nations. 
I  call  upon  all  Member  States,  just  as  they  have 
supported  the  revolutions  of  the  Arab  peoples,  to 
extend  their  support  to  the  Palestinians  and  their 
endeavour to recover the full and legitimate rights of a 
people struggling to regain its freedom and establish an 
independent State of Palestine, based on the inalienable 
rights of the Palestinians.
We are determined to work to pursue all efforts of 
the Palestinian people, in support of them and side by 
side until they freely regain all rights for all segments 
and communities of the population.
From  this  rostrum  and  at  this  eminent  gathering, 
I  must  address  the  issue  that  weighs  heavily  upon  all 
of us, namely, the bloodshed and the human tragedy in 
Syria. The bloodshed must be halted immediately. That 
is our first concern. The blood being shed in the land of 
beloved Syria is far too valuable to continue to lose day 
and  night.  The  brotherly  Syrian  people,  who  are  dear 
to the hearts of every Egyptian, deserve to hope for a 
future  of  freedom  and  dignity.  That  is  the  essence  of 
the initiative that I proposed in the Holy City of Mecca 
during the recent month of Ramadan, and which I have 
reiterated on subsequent occasions. It aims to avoid the 
worst;  to  check  the  continued  suffering  of  the  Syrian 
people  and  the  devolvement  of  the  conflict  into  a  full 
scale  civil  war  —  God  forbid  —  with  concomitant 
negative  effects  extending  beyond  Syria  and 
immediate neighbours.
its 
Egypt, along with the three other countries involved 
in  our  initiative,  has  held  meetings  that  manifested 
many areas of commonalities. We will continue to work 
to put an end to the suffering of the Syrian people and 
provide them with an opportunity to choose freely the 
regime that best represents them. 
After  the  current  regime  comes  to  an  end  —  the 
regime that is killing its own people day and night — the 
Syrian  people  will  choose,  by  their  own  free  will, 
a  regime  that  represents  them  and  that  places  Syria 
in  its  proper  position  among  democratic  countries 
contributing to the common march of the Arab people 
based on its solid, legitimate, regional and international 
role.
I would like to emphasize here that the initiative is 
open to all. It is not just the purview of its four starting 
parties,  but  is  open  to  all  who  wish  to  positively 
contribute to resolving the Syrian crisis and suffering, 
that we are all responsible for. 
All of us, the world over, must actively endeavour 
to put an end to the tragedy. It is the tragedy of the age, 
and our duty is to end it. 
Egypt is committed to continuing its sincere efforts 
to put an end to the catastrophe in Syria under an Arab, 
regional  and  international  framework  that  preserves 
the  unity  of  that  brotherly  State.  It  would  involve  all 
factions of the Syrian people without ethnic, religious or 
gender discrimination and would spare Syria the danger 
of  foreign  military  intervention,  which  we  oppose. 
Egypt  is  also  committed  to  supporting  the  mission  of 
Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  Joint  Special  Representative  of 
the  United Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for 
Syria,  and  to  continuing  the  current  efforts  aimed  at 
unifying  the  Syrian  opposition  and  encouraging  it  to 
propose a comprehensive unified vision of an organized 
democratic transfer of power by measures that preserve 
the  rights  of  all  constituencies  in  Syria,  and  maintain 
their  essential  positions  in  the  new  Syria  —  like  the 
new Egypt.
I  cannot  fail  to  reiterate  Egypt’s  commitment  to 
working with the other Arab countries to ensure that the 
Arab nation reclaims its rightful position in the world. 
That  is  an  integral  component  of  Egypt’s  vision  of 
national security and of the larger homeland extending 
from  the  Arab  Gulf  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean  —  an  area 
30 
12-52201
that  thrives  with  opportunities  for  cooperation  and 
constructive engagement with the entire world.
Egypt  also  believes  that  the  extremely  valuable 
contribution of the Arab nation within the wider Islamic 
sphere  is  of  vital  necessity  in  promoting  joint  action 
within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). 
Egypt  will  make  every  effort  to  ensure  that  the  next 
OIC  conference,  to  be  held  early  next  year  in  Egypt, 
will strengthen mutual understanding between Islamic 
countries  and  the  rest  of  the  world  and  set  in  motion 
the  principles  of  the  dialogue  among  civilizations,  by 
eliminating  the  causes  of  misunderstandings  used  by 
fanatics on both sides to prove, wrongly, that differences 
among  people  are  great  and  to  achieve  political  goals 
completely  unrelated  to  the  noble  ideals  of  religions, 
human values or ethics.
Today  more  than  ever,  our  brothers  and  sisters  in 
the  Sudan  need  the  Assembly’s  support.  The  Sudan 
is  seeking 
to  achieve  stability  and  development 
and  is  working  to  build  sound  and  ideal  relations 
with  South  Sudan.  I  believe  that  the  nascent  State, 
together  with  the  Sudan,  is  ready  to  become  a  centre 
of  cooperation  between  the  Arab  world  and  African 
countries.  The  Sudan  has  made  great  sacrifices  in  its 
quest  for  peace  and  stability.  It  has  committed  itself 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement.  It  was  also  the  first  country  to  recognize 
the nascent State of South Sudan. But let me be frank: 
it has not received the support it deserves. It is now high 
time for international efforts to rally in support of the 
Sudan and to work on settling differences between the 
Sudan and its neighbour to the south in order to resolve 
all outstanding issues.
An  early  success  of  the  brotherly  Somali  people 
during the difficult transitional phase was to elect His 
Excellency Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President, 
which is a positive step towards unity and stability after 
a very difficult period. I call upon the United Nations 
to continue to support the Somali Government’s efforts 
to fend off those seeking to hinder its efforts to achieve 
stability,  reconstruct  State  institutions  and  realize  the 
aspirations of the Somali people for a better future.
The  principles  of  justice  and  right  are  linked 
to  achieving  security  and  stability  in  the  world, 
particularly in the Middle East. Over many long years, 
some  have  wrongfully  sought  to  maintain  stability 
through oppression and tyranny. Some of us have, alas, 
applauded  their  bad  deeds.  But  now  that  the  peoples 
A/67/PV.9
of  the  region  have  regained  their  freedom,  they  will 
neither  tolerate,  nor  permit,  being  deprived  of  their 
rights, by either their own leaders or outside forces.
The  will  of  the  people,  especially  in  our  region, 
no  longer  accepts  the  continued  non-accession  of 
any  country  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the non-application of the 
safeguards  regime  to  that  country’s  nuclear  facilities, 
especially if such action is coupled with irresponsible 
policies  or  arbitrary  threats.  In  that  regard,  the 
international community’s acceptance of the principle 
of pre-emption or attempts to legitimize it represents a 
serious matter that must be firmly confronted to avoid 
any tendency to promote the law of the jungle.
Cognizant  of  the  danger  that  the  status  quo 
represents to the security of our important region, with 
its natural resources and trade corridors, Egypt stresses 
the  necessity  of  mobilizing  international  efforts  to 
convene the special conference on declaring the Middle 
East  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  that  is  also  free  of 
other  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  before  the  end  of 
the current year, with the participation of all concerned 
parties, without exception. 
I  should  like  to  say  very  clearly  that  the  only 
solution is to eliminate all nuclear weapons and all other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  There  is  no  alternative. 
At  the  same  time,  we  also  emphasize  the  right  of  all 
countries  of  the  region  and  of  the  world,  including 
Egypt, of course, to the peaceful use of nuclear energy 
within the framework of the NPT, with a commitment 
to honour their obligations in that respect and provide 
the necessary guarantees to the countries of the region, 
so  as  to  avoid  any  doubt  surrounding  their  peaceful 
nuclear programmes.
In  our  view,  the  concepts  of  justice,  truth  and 
dignity form the basis of the framework for governing 
international relations. 
A 
review  of 
international 
relations  would 
undoubtedly  reveal  the  extent  of  the  injustice  that 
has  been  inflicted  upon  the  African  continent.  I  do 
not  think  it  necessary  to  enumerate  all  the  previous 
pledges  that  have  been  made  in  the  Hall  to  boost 
development  and  economic  growth  in  Africa  through 
aid  and  investment.  The  world  has  a  responsibility  to 
support  Africa’s  efforts  beyond  mere  promises  and 
good intentions; it must provide the assistance needed 
for African countries to recover the treasures that were 
stolen from them over successive eras, the last of which 
12-52201
31
A/67/PV.9
being  the  period  when  some  thought  that  supporting 
unjust  regimes  would  help  to  achieve  a  false  stability 
that  protected  their  interests,  while  those  regimes 
merely spread corruption and allowed for wealth to be 
smuggled outside their countries. 
I  am  aware  that  the  desired  goals  can  only  be 
achieved through the active participation of the peoples 
of  the  continent  and  their  assumption  of  their  own 
responsibilities. That is something that we as Africans 
are  ready  and  willing  to  undertake  in  our  quest  for  a 
better future for our countries. Today, we as Africans 
have to create for our continent a new set of ambitious 
goals that would ensure that we are on the right track 
towards sustainable development, the fulfilment of our 
aspirations for a better future and the real participation 
of  Africa  in  the  international  order.  I  assure  the 
Assembly  that  Egypt  will  continue  to  support  its 
brothers  and  sisters  in  Africa,  and  that  it  is  ready  to 
cooperate  with  any  stakeholder  or  party  in  or  outside 
the continent to raise living standards in Africa through 
the exchange of expertise and successful practices.
As we contemplate the current international order, 
we feel that there is a need to work diligently to repair 
it, based on principles that would renew its legitimacy 
and preserve its credibility. That is a legitimate demand 
of  peoples  and  nations  as  they  seek  to  participate 
in  shaping  a  new  world  and  a  better  future  for  their 
children.
Revitalizing  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly 
as  a  democratic  forum  that  expresses  the  will  of  the 
international  community  and  reforming  the  structure 
of  a  Security  Council,  which  still  reflects  a  bygone 
era,  must  remain  our  highest  priorities  and  must  be 
undertaken with due seriousness.
I would like to emphasize the need for the United 
Nations  to  give  special  attention  to  women’s  issues 
and  youth  issues.  During  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
summit in Tehran, I proposed a new initiative to establish 
a United Nations body dedicated solely to youth issues, 
giving  particular  attention  to  education,  training, 
employment  and  improving  youth  participation  in 
political life. The aim is to build the capacity of future 
generations to achieve their aspirations.
Egypt  would  like  to  stress  that  the  international 
system  will  not  be  fixed  as  long  as  we  have  double 
standards. We expect from others, as others expect from 
us,  respect  for  our  cultural  specificities  and  religious 
points  of  reference.  The  world  beyond  our  region 
should  not  seek  to  impose  on  us  concepts  or  cultures 
that  are  unacceptable  to  us,  nor  should  they  politicize 
certain issues and use them as a pretext to intervene in 
our affairs. 
What  Muslims  —  and  migrant  Muslims  —  are 
experiencing  in  a  number  of  regions  worldwide  in 
terms of discrimination, basic human rights violations 
and vicious campaigns against what they hold sacred, is 
unacceptable. The behaviour of some individuals in that 
regard is absolutely unacceptable. We reject the insults 
heaped upon the Prophet of Islam, Muhammad — peace 
be upon him — as unacceptable. We oppose those who 
hurl such insults. We will not allow anyone to insult the 
Prophet in word or in deed. It runs counter to the most 
basic  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Unfortunately,  such  practices  have  acquired  a  name 
today — Islamophobia.
together 
We all have to work together. We must join hands 
in confronting regressive ideas that hinder cooperation 
among  us.  We  must  move 
to  confront 
extremism,  discrimination  and  incitement  to  hatred 
of others on the basis of religion or race. The General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  have  the  primary 
responsibility  for  addressing  a  phenomenon  that  is 
starting  to  have  clear  implications  for  international 
peace and security. 
The  obscenities  that  I  have  referred  to,  which  are 
part  of  a  recent  organized  campaign  against  Islamic 
sanctities, are unacceptable and require that we take a 
firm stand. We have a responsibility at this international 
forum to look into how we can protect the world from 
instability and insecurity. 
Egypt respects freedom of expression — a freedom 
of  expression  that  is  not  used  to  incite  hatred  against 
anyone  and  that  is  not  directed  towards  a  specific 
religion or culture. We support a freedom of expression 
that  addresses  extremism  and  violence  and  does  not 
deepen ignorance or disregard others. As we have said 
before, we firmly oppose the use of violence as a means 
of expressing objection to obscenity and indecency.
Before  I  conclude,  I  must  say  that  the  severity 
and  recurrence  of  financial  and  economic  crises  must 
lead  us  to  a  review  of  the  international  economic 
decision-making  processes  that  affect  the  fate  of 
peoples  who  have  not  participated  directly  in  those 
processes but yet are unfortunately the first to bear their 
negative  impacts  on  growth,  trade,  the  environment 
and  the  social  fabric  of  society,  as  a  result  of  unfair 
32 
12-52201
trade rules and practices and conditionalities imposed 
on  the  transfer  of  technology  and  access  to  necessary 
financing  for  development.  We  urgently  need  a  new 
people-centred form of global economic governance that 
aims at consolidating cooperation between development 
partners on the basis of mutual benefit and interests.
I  have  laid  out  our  vision,  which  is  shared  by  the 
Egyptian people. I have also attempted to briefly outline 
Egypt’s  views  on  the  main  issues,  which  is  to  say  the 
vision  of  Egyptian  youth,  children,  women  and  men, 
Muslim and non-Muslim, on all important questions in 
the Middle East, Africa and the rest of the world. From 
that  perspective,  I  am  sure  that  the  United  Nations  is 
capable  of  assuming  its  intended  role  of  effectively 
addressing all global and regional issues and challenges 
through dialogue, understanding and joint cooperation, 
in accordance with the principles of international law.
Post-revolutionary  Egypt  will  spare  no  effort  to 
deal  sincerely  with  all  Members  of  the  Organization. 
We will always remain in the forefront of international 
endeavours aimed at achieving freedom, justice, social 
justice and dignity for all peoples, as well as security 
and stability for all our countries.
I  look  forward  with  great  optimism,  and  I  see 
the  peace  that  we  call  for  prevailing  all  over  the 
world  —  a  peace  based  on  justice  and  conferring  on 
all  their  undiminished  rights,  a  peace  that  does  not 
discriminate between people for any reason. That peace 
will  not  come  about  until  we  all  cooperate,  until  we 
realize that we are all equal and share many aspirations 
and ambitions. That is the peace whose message I bring 
to  to  the  Assembly  —  a  peace  of  right  and  justice, 
stability and development, interdependence of interests 
and benefits, love and mutual respect. I do not believe 
that achieving this will raise difficulties for any of us 
if we extend the hand of cooperation, sincere intention 
and  righteous  work.  God  is  our  witness.  We  are  all 
hopeful that we will see a better future for the world.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Mohamed  Morsy,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
A/67/PV.9
Address by Mr. Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, 
President of the United Mexican States 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Mexican States.
Mr.  Felipe  Calderón  Hinojosa,  President  of  the 
United  Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Felipe 
Calderón  Hinojosa,  President  of  the  United  Mexican 
States, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Calderón  Hinojosa  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
By  virtue  of  its  historical  conviction,  Mexico  has 
always been a strategic ally of the United Nations. As 
one of the founding Members of the United Nations, we 
fully share its fundamental precepts.
This is the last session of the General Assembly I 
will  attend  as  President  of  Mexico.  Over  the  past  six 
years,  my  country  has  taken  part  in  many  different 
forums to pave the way for United Nations initiatives. 
We  have  endeavoured  to  make  it  the  main  body  for 
dialogue,  peace  and  security,  and  for  the  rule  of  law, 
including,  in  particular,  the  effective  exercise  of 
international law. 
Today the world faces challenges that threaten the 
very  existence  and  viability  of  humankind.  The  first 
of  those  is  the  current  economic  emergency  and  the 
urgent  need  to  promote  global  trade  and  growth  with 
strong  job  creation.  That  problem  has  plunged  entire 
populations in crisis and prevented developing nations 
from  overcoming  setbacks  with  respect  to  poverty, 
ignorance and marginalization.
When  Mexico  became  President  of  the  Group  of 
20 (G-20) in 2012, our mission was clear: to reconcile 
the  apparently  competing  interests  of  developing  and 
developed  nations.  It  is  no  secret  that  at  the  previous 
meeting  of  the  G-20,  in  Cannes,  we  were  unable  to 
make as much progress as we would have liked towards 
adopting  measures  to  advance  the  global  economy. 
For  that  reason,  the  Mexican  Government  made  it  a 
priority  to  build  a  broader  consensus.  We  brought  as 
many  countries  as  possible  into  the  process,  along 
with  representatives  of  the  widest  possible  range  of 
sectors,  including  unions,  entrepreneurs,  civil  society 
12-52201
33
A/67/PV.9
organizations and youth, and we took their proposals to 
the plenary meeting of the G-20.
We  held  many  preparatory  ministerial  meetings 
over  many  months  and  managed  to  bring  apparently 
divergent  positions  closer  together.  That  work  was 
critical  in  ensuring  that  the  G-20  Summit  in  Los 
Cabos  last  June  achieved  significant  progress.  While 
it is true that months ahead of time there were doubts 
about the viability of the euro as the sole currency for 
many  European  countries,  the  meeting  in  Los  Cabos 
solidified  the  Group’s  commitment  not  only  to  that 
currency as a monetary unit but also to financial, fiscal 
and political unity in the eurozone. The commitments 
of  the  international  financial  institutions  were  spelled 
out in greater detail and broadened, in particular those 
of  the  European  institutions,  but  also  those  of  the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF). 
Among  the  most  significant  achievements  agreed 
at the Los Cabos G-20 Summit, I should like to mention 
the  long-term  action  plan  that  proposes  to  tackle  the 
current economic situation as well as to move forward 
towards the full and lasting economic recovery that we 
all  yearn  for.  It  is  also  very  important  that  we  agreed 
to provide the greatest contribution to the resources of 
the IMF in the history of the organization. More than 
$450  trillion  was  committed,  and  is  available  to  help 
developing  or  developed  countries  facing  a  critical 
financial  situation  as  a  result  of  the  current  economic 
crisis. 
It is true that financial problems in some European 
countries  persist.  Those  are  problems  that  will  take  a 
long time to recover from. But, from our point of view, 
there is now more promise for a solution than there was 
before the G-20 meeting. The commitment on the part 
of the G-20 countries has been a valuable element, so 
much so that today the global economy is beginning to 
show  more  optimistic  signs  of  medium-term  recovery 
than we saw a little more than a year ago. That is why I 
believe that we are starting to see a turning point when 
it comes to economic prospects. We must all contribute 
to ensuring that the recovery in fact takes place through 
the  implementation  of  the  commitments  undertaken. 
That  should  not  keep  us  from  undertaking  further 
efforts.  On  the  contrary,  we  must  step  up  our  efforts 
in order to overcome, once and for all, the global crisis 
and promote development in our societies.
I  would  like  to  underscore  that  the  Los  Cabos 
Summit  did  not  look  only  at  the  international  crisis, 
and  certainly  not  only  at  Europe.  We  also  dealt  with 
various  pressing  and  important  topics.  We  wanted  to 
ensure that countries would recover growth through a 
sustainable approach. We included several other items 
of extreme importance on the agenda, including green 
growth  —  to  which  I  will  refer  later  —  food  security 
for our peoples and financial inclusion for the poorest. 
In that regard, approximately 3 billion adults in the 
world do not have access to financial services. That is 
a clear obstacle to justice, but also to the efficiency and 
growth  of  our  economies.  That  is  why  we  in  Mexico 
have  expanded  people’s  access  to  financial  services. 
Today, banks offer simplified requirements for opening 
accounts.  We  are  establishing  a  completely  new  bank 
that  functions  through  the  use  of  cell  phones,  which 
80  per  cent  of  the  population  own.  We  are  offering, 
through bank intermediaries, financial services in the 
most remote places. 
Not  only  has  my  Government  been  introducing 
programmes  to  promote  justice  and  fight  poverty, 
but  the  majority  of  the  support  that  we  give  to  the 
poorest  sectors  of  the  population  today  is  done 
through a financial inclusion effort. Our Opportunities 
Programme  is  an  innovative  financial  transaction 
programme  for  6.5  million  families,  or  over  a  quarter 
of the total population of Mexico, including the poorest 
families.  They  receive  monthly  economic  support  to 
purchase food and cover basic needs as long as mothers 
take their children to schools and to the doctor, as that 
is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  structurally  breaking  the 
cycle  of  poverty.  That  support  is  delivered  through 
debit cards linked to an individual bank account, which 
those 6.5 million poor families have perhaps never had 
access to before. 
Food  security  was  another  other  topic  that  we 
explored  at  the  G-20  Summit.  The  increase  in  food 
prices around the world largely explains why, besides the 
political reasons that might exist in any nation, people 
in North Africa and many other parts of the world have, 
from 2010 to the present time, taken to the streets. If the 
poorest families devote half of their income to buying 
food and the price of that food increases by 10 or 20 per 
cent, we are talking about a net global impoverishment 
that  is  higher  than  those  percentages.  We  are  saying 
that one of the most tragic problems in the fight against 
poverty  is  preventing  such  enormous  rises  in  global 
food prices. 
34 
12-52201
Concretely,  we  achieved  agreements  to  promote 
greater  investment  in  technology  and  greater  public 
and private investment in agriculture, so that, with the 
same  resources  and  the  same  land  and  water,  we  can 
produce  more  and  better  food  globally.  Mexico  took 
an active part in the green revolution at the beginning 
of the 1970s. Now we need another green revolution to 
produce food. Mexico wants to be an active participant 
in that transformation of technology, public policy and 
financial  cooperation  that  could  provide  food  to  the 
poorest  people  in  the  world.  At  the  G-20  Summit,  we 
showed  that  it  is  possible  to  find  a  solution  to  urgent 
and topical problems, as well as to long-term problems.
(MDGs),  which 
The  second  challenge  of  the  four  I  would  like 
to  mention  today  has  to  do  with  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the  United 
Nations so wisely established. It is very clear that they 
encapsulate  the  yearnings  of  all  of  our  peoples  for  a 
harmonious,  humane  and  sustainable  development. 
My country, despite the unexpected rise in global food 
prices  and  the  worst  global  economic  crisis  in  living 
memory, has made real progress in reaching the Goals. 
I would like to stress that Mexico is close to achieving 
the  MDGs.  Three  years  from  the  deadline,  we  have 
achieved one of the greatest aspirations of any nation, 
whether  developed  or  developing,  namely,  universal 
health  coverage.  What  does  that  mean?  It  means  that 
today in Mexico we have doctors, medicine, treatment 
and  hospitals  for  every  Mexican  man  or  woman  who 
requires  it.  That  will  allow  us  to  comply  with  the 
commitments taken on in the area of reducing mother 
and child mortality. We are also energetically tackling 
such  problems  as  HIV/AIDS.  In  Mexico,  we  provide 
free  medical  care  and  free  antiretroviral  drugs  to  all 
HIV/AIDS patients, thereby contributing to overcoming 
that serious global challenge. 
Furthermore, not only have we achieved universal 
health  coverage,  but  we  have  also  provided  universal 
coverage  when  it  comes  to  primary  education.  Today, 
every  boy  and  girl  of  school  age  —  between  5  and 
13 years of age — has a place in a free public school. 
We have also closed the gap between men and women 
so  that  they  participate  equally  in  basic  education  at 
almost every level. 
We  have  achieved  important  progress.  We  have 
built over 1,200 new hospitals and clinics in six years 
and  established  140  universities.  Those  are  new  free 
public universities, where every year we train 113,000 
engineers  who  are,  besides  enhancing  their  earning 
A/67/PV.9
power,  also  revolutionizing  the  competitiveness  of 
Mexican industry. 
We have also achieved progress beyond the agreed 
goals in terms of access to drinking water, information 
technologies  and  decent  housing.  Almost  650,000 
mortgage credits for as many houses are provided every 
year in our country, especially to workers who earn less 
than  $20  a  day.  All  of  those  achievements  put  us  on 
track to comply with one of the MDGs within the time 
frame established. 
Globally, Mexico is aware of the fact that progress 
is  uneven,  but  that  should  not  be  a  reason  to  abandon 
our  efforts.  We  must  reinforce  the  progress  we  have 
made and ensure that it continues. 
That  is  why  Mexico  would  suggest  that  we  move 
towards  a  second  generation  of  MDGs  that  would  be 
universal, measurable and adapted to distinct national 
realities in areas such as gender equity, environmental 
protection,  green  growth,  education,  food,  access  to 
water  and  international  democratic  governance.  That 
should be a central part of the 2015 development agenda.
The  third  challenge  is  that  of  climate  change.  Its 
impact  could  be  irreversible,  both  for  societies  and  in 
terms  of  national  resources.  I  know  that,  in  all  of  the 
countries  represented  here,  there  is  currently  either 
an  unprecedented  drought  or  unprecedented  flooding. 
Here in Manhattan, less than two years ago, there was a 
hurricane on Fifth Avenue for the first time in history. 
There were also tornadoes in Maine and Massachusetts. 
Climate  change  is  affecting  all  nations.  This  is  a 
challenge  that  threatens  to  overwhelm  humankind.  If 
we do not tackle it today, the cost for each country to 
deal with its consequences will be significantly greater. 
Mexico is seeking to engage all of its capacities in 
prompting  a  sense  of  responsibility  when  it  comes  to 
the fight against global warming. That is why we have 
set  up  a  special  unilateral  programme  to  fight  it.  We 
are  committed  to  reducing  our  yearly  carbon  dioxide 
emissions by 50 million tons for this year. We made that 
commitment in 2008, and we are meeting it: by the end 
of the year we will have reached our goal. 
We are also the first country to deliver a national 
message in the context of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. We have delivered four 
messages  to  date,  and  today  I  will  deliver  Mexico’s 
fifth such message in that regard. I will report on how 
we  have  complied  with  our  commitments,  as  well  as 
12-52201
35
A/67/PV.9
illustrate how we have managed to uncouple Mexico’s 
economic  growth  from  its  greenhouse-gas  emissions. 
In the past two decades, our emissions have increased 
at  a  rate  that  is  40  per  cent  lower  than  our  economic 
growth rate.
We  are  doing  this  because  to  challenge  a  false 
notion that we have heard expressed here at the United 
Nations and in every economic forum around the world. 
The idea seems to be that we either grow or we tackle 
climate change, we either put an end to poverty or we 
put  an  end  to  global  warming.  It  would  seem  that  we 
cannot do both at the same time, but I am here to say 
that we can. I would even say that we should. We have 
to  overcome  the  false  dichotomy  that  exists  between 
protecting  the  environment  and  promoting  economic 
growth,  and  between  fighting  poverty  and  fighting 
climate change. 
In  Mexico,  we  are  doing  both  at  the  same  time. 
Through ProÁrbol, for instance, which is a programme 
that pays for environmental services, and is perhaps the 
largest  in  the  world  to  do  so,  we  are  paying  poor  and 
indigenous communities who live in forests and jungles 
for the water that they give us and for the oxygen that 
we breathe. We are paying them not to cut down trees, 
to restore their water basins so that those environmental 
services  will  remain  for  us.  With  this  programme, 
as  we  take  care  of  our  forests,  we  are  also  providing 
income to the poorest communities, who have never had 
income before. In the six years of the programme, we 
have planted 1.3 billion trees in our country. I recall a 
United Nations programme five years ago that aimed at 
planting 1 billion trees around the world. We took part 
in  that  programme  enthusiastically.  We  have  planted 
1.3 billion trees in six years and designated 3.5 million 
hectares as protected natural areas. 
A promising result of that effort is that, according 
to the Food and Agriculture Organization, Mexico has 
reduced its net deforestation rate from 350,000 hectares 
annually  in  the  1990s  to  150,000  between  2005  and 
2010.  I  am  sure  that  we  will  have  reduced  it  further 
between 2010 and 2012. Our hope is that not only will 
we achieve a rate of zero this decade, but that we will 
reverse deforestation around the world. 
With  respect  to  that  challenge,  working  with 
the  United  Nations,  we  were  pleased  to  organize  the 
sixteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(COP  16)  in  Cancún,  Mexico.  Against  all  predictions, 
COP  16  was  a  rather  successful  meeting.  We  reached 
a  first  ever  agreement  on  implementing  an  emissions 
reduction  scheme  for  deforestation  and  degradation, 
called  REDD-plus,  which  will  enable  developing 
countries  to  contribute  to  reducing  emissions  while 
preserving and augmenting forests and jungles. 
The greatest riches that poor countries have are their 
natural capital, and developing countries do not pollute 
with industries that they do not have. The greatest riches 
are  forests  and  jungles,  and  carbon  emissions  come 
from  deforestation.  If  developing  countries  are  given 
the  support  they  need  to  preserve  forests  and  jungles, 
we  will  be  contributing  to  reducing  carbon  emissions 
and helping to raise the income of those communities. 
We agreed on that in Cancún at COP 16. 
That  success  also  points  to  a  possibility  that  was 
first  raised  in  the  context  of  the  fight  against  global 
warming. We have managed to overcome the differences 
between developed and developing countries. We have 
managed  to  set  aside  the  perverse  game  of  blaming 
each  other  by  saying  either  that  the  rich  are  to  blame 
because they are the ones polluting, or that the poor are 
to blame because they are the ones emitting greenhouse 
gases. In this we are all responsible, and we all have to 
find the solution. We are all responsible for the planet 
that  we  share,  which  does  not  recognize  our  borders 
when it comes to the environment. 
That 
is  why 
the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibility  enabled  us 
to  reach 
reasonable agreements in Cancún. We set up the Green 
Fund to fight climate change, as proposed by Mexico. 
We  established  by  consensus  the  clearly  set  threshold 
of an increase of no more than 2 degrees in the planet’s 
temperature in the long term, a commitment to reduce 
emissions, an institutional framework for the adaptation 
to  climate  change  and  mechanisms  for  the  financing 
and transfer of technology. Those achievements revived 
multilateralism on the issue of climate change and were 
folowed by the successful Climate Change Conference 
held in Durban in 2011. 
The  fourth  challenge  —  and  I  would  like  the 
Assembly’s special attention as I address this problem, 
which is responsible for more violent deaths around the 
world  than  any  other  —  is  a  problem  that  is  costing 
thousands of young people their lives, in particular in 
our beloved region of Latin America and the Caribbean. 
I am talking about transnational organized crime, which 
is cutting short the lives of thousands of young people 
36 
12-52201
and  constitutes  one  of  the  most  serious  global  threats 
of  our  time.  Criminal  organizations  form  operational 
networks covering major illicit flows not only of drugs 
but also of arms, money and, unacceptably, of people. 
They use violence to control their markets, supply and 
clients and to seize the income of the honest citizens of 
the places they dominate. In that way, they seek to control 
territories  and  co-opt  Governments.  They  challenge 
the  strength  of  States  themselves  and  take  advantage 
of  institutional  weakness  or  bare-faced  corruption  to 
establish power and impunity. They become entrenched 
in communities and control everything they can. They 
claim money from honest people for their work. They 
collect quotas from businesses and working people and 
control other criminal activities such as extortion, theft 
and kidnapping. 
Organized  crime  is  one  of  the  leading  causes  of 
death  today.  It  is  a  leading  engine  of  violence,  which 
the United Nations has an obligation to fight. It is one 
of the greatest threats facing democracy in the twenty-
first century.
Mexico  has  suffered  the  consequences  of  this 
scourge, which, lamentably, has resulted from of years 
of  inaction  in  the  face  of  the  unbridled  expansion  of 
such  criminal  activity.  That  is  why  protecting  the 
families  and  people  of  Mexico  from  criminality  has 
been,  for  my  Government,  not  only  a  constitutional 
legal  imperative  but  an  absolute  ethical  and  political 
one  as  well.  We  have  fought  robustly,  decisively  and 
courageously  against  that  unacceptable  threat  to  our 
peoples. We have done that based on our belief that our 
principal duty as a Government is to protect families.
At  the  same  time,  we  have  promoted  a  truly 
historic transformation of the institutions charged with 
enforcing  the  law  by  developing  new  and  improved 
police and judicial capacities in the fight for security. We 
require new and better capabilities that can cope with 
the  task  of  defending  freedom  and  legality.  However, 
we  regret  that  our  efforts  are  not  being  matched  in 
all  the  countries  where  they  are  needed.  I  would  like 
to  explicitly  express  my  regret  before  the  Assembly 
that  the  diplomatic  conference  that  took  place  here  in 
July  failed  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the  adoption  of 
an arms trade treaty. Such a treaty would have laid the 
groundwork  for  controlling  the  irresponsible  sale  of 
powerful weapons to transnational organized criminal 
groups.
A/67/PV.9
Over  the  past  six  years,  my  Government  has 
decommissioned more than 150,000 weapons that had 
been  in  the  hands  of  criminals.  That  is  why  Mexico 
advocated  for  a  treaty  that  would  limit  or  ban,  or  at 
least  regulate,  the  transfer  of  conventional  weapons, 
because we know there is a risk — we know that that 
happens  —  that  those  weapons  do  not  end  up  in  the 
hands of good citizens who want to defend themselves; 
they  end  up  in  the  hands  of  criminals.  That  is  why 
such a business exists, namely, to commit horrible and 
unprecedented  violations  of  international  law  against 
peoples.
The trafficking of arms is only one aspect of that 
very complex problem. Today, we have to acknowledge 
an  undeniable  truth:  the  illegal  drug  consumption 
in  many  developed  countries  is  killing  thousands  of 
young people in producing and transiting countries. It 
fuels  violence  that  our  peoples  do  not  deserve.  Drug-
consuming  countries  have  not  made  progress  —  or  at 
least not significantly — in reducing drug consumption. 
There is much work to be done in that regard, both in 
terms of reducing demand and in preventing addiction. 
We need to step up our efforts to deal with this public 
health  problem  through  preventive  policies,  fighting 
addiction  and  media  and  information  campaigns  that 
would make young people around the world understand 
that  drug  addiction  is  the  slavery  of  the  twenty-first 
century. It is a heavy chain choking our young people 
to death.
In addition, we must also bear in mind the origins 
of the greatest power of criminal organizations. Where 
does it come from? It comes from the billions of dollars 
of  economic  resources  financing  them,  which  in  turn 
flow from the drug-consuming countries. If we do not 
stop that avalanche of funds from consumers, organized 
crime will continue to undermine peace and challenge 
whole societies and Governments.
That is why here, in this pre-eminent global forum, 
I would like to say with the utmost clarity that the time 
has  come  for  consuming  countries  to  ask  themselves, 
honestly and sincerely, whether they have the will and 
the  ability  to  reduce  drug  consumption  significantly 
and substantially. Otherwise, if they cannot reduce that 
consumption, they must urgently take decisive steps at 
least  to  reduce  the  extraordinry  flows  of  money  that 
end up in the hands of criminal organizations.
I  know  that  to  date  the  approach  taken  has  been 
well intentioned, seeking to keep drugs out of the hands 
12-52201
37
A/67/PV.9
of  young  people  by  pursuing  the  battle  against  drug 
trafficking via legal means. But there is a fundamental 
problem with that approach: it fuels the black market. 
The  enormous  earnings  that  have  been  made  possible 
through  that  market  owing  to  the  prohibition  have  in 
turn further fuelled greater ambitions among criminals 
and  further  increased  the  massive  flow  of  resources 
towards their organizations. That has allowed them to 
create  powerful  networks  and  given  them  an  almost 
unlimited ability to corrupt. They are able to buy entire 
Governments and entire police forces, leaving societies 
unarmed  and  families  defenceless,  especially  in  the 
poorest countries.
While  it  is  clear  that  powerful  countries  have 
powerful  judicial  authorities  and  police  forces,  what 
about  the  poorest  countries  in  our  continents?  I  am 
talking  about  our  countries  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. But what will happen in Africa or Asia, or 
in the very many nations that do not have the economic 
power to tackle such criminals?
Let us grasp once and for all that the ever-growing 
demand  for  drugs  gives  the  criminals  an  economic 
power  that  in  some  cases  translates  to  political  power 
sufficient to bend the will of the authorities to their own. 
I want to stress that all that money builds in them such 
overweening confidence that they abandon all scruples 
and commit the worst atrocities and acts of cruelty that 
humankind  has  ever  seen.  Drug  users’  money  causes 
the deaths of many thousands of young people in Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  as  a  consequence  of  drug 
trade  violence.  The  countries  that  suffer  most  acutely 
the devastating effects of the situation are countries like 
ours that lie between the production zones in the Andes 
and the largest consumption market, the United States: 
Colombia,  Venezuela,  Guatemala,  El  Salvador  and 
Honduras, and, in the Caribbean, Haiti, the Dominican 
Republic, Jamaica and all other countries in that path. 
I would like to report that in December of last year 
the heads of State and Government of Central America 
and  of  Mexico,  Colombia  and  Chile  met  for  what  we 
called the Tuxtla cooperation mechanism and issued a 
very  important  statement,  the  Mérida  Declaration.  It 
proclaims the urgent need to make a tangible reduction 
in  demand  for  illegal  drugs  in  consumer  nations.  We 
also  said  that  if  that  is  impossible  the  authorities  of 
those  countries  have  the  moral  obligation  to  explore 
every  possible  means  to  eliminate  the  astronomical 
financial  gains  of  criminals,  including  regulatory  or 
market options. 
Some months later we convened representatives of 
all the countries of the hemisphere for the sixth Summit 
of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, where several 
Latin  American  leaders  reiterated  our  concern,  and 
countries from Canada to Chile reached an agreement 
to  give  a  mandate  to  the  Organization  of  American 
States  to  make  a  scientific  analysis  of  all  possible 
options to battle the scourge more effectively. We also 
agreed  unanimously  to  establish  a  hemisphere-wide 
plan  against  transnational  organized  crime  to  foster 
real-time  cooperation  among  all  the  hemisphere’s  law 
enforcement agencies.
Today  I  formally  propose  that  the  United  Nations 
commit to making an in-depth assessment of the scale 
and  limits  of  the  current  prohibitionist  approach  to 
drugs. That does not mean giving up the fight or ceding 
one  inch  to  criminal  organizations.  We  will  never  do 
that. But what it does mean is that countries must take 
responsibility, both the common responsibilities we all 
share and differentiated responsibilities, in accordance 
with each nation’s capacities..
In  any  case, 
irrespective  of 
the  regulatory 
framework,  all  nations,  especially  emerging  ones 
like  Mexico,  must  implement  a  coherent  policy,  with 
a  three-pronged  approach.  The  first  obligation  is  to 
fight  crime,  not  to  run  away  from  it  and  not  to  allow 
criminals to establish territories as if they were a State. 
The second is to strengthen laws and law enforcement 
agencies and institutions. In particular, we must purge 
and  strengthen  police  forces,  public  prosecutors, 
Government  ministers  and  judicial  authorities.  The 
third and most important is to restore the social fabric. 
We must increase opportunities for young people in the 
areas of education, health, employment and leisure. We 
must  do  it  through  universities,  music  groups,  soccer 
teams  and  clinics  to  prevent  and  treat  drug  addiction. 
We  must  establish  active  and  massive  prevention 
and  treatment  policies  for  young  people,  including 
teenagers.
that 
We  are  already  doing 
in  Mexico.  The 
three-pronged  approach  is  crucial  for  any  democratic 
State, regardless of its political philosophy. Every State 
must fight crime, improve law enforcement institutions 
and create opportunities.
Today I call upon all States Members of the United 
Nations to assume that responsibility, which so far has 
not  measured  up  to  the  magnitude  of  the  problem  of 
organized  crime,  which,  I  repeat,  is  the  main  cause 
38 
12-52201
of  violent  death  in  the  world.  That  is  something  the 
United Nations must look at. If the developed countries 
that  consume  ton  upon  ton  of  drugs  on  a  daily  basis 
cannot or do not want to reduce drug consumption, then 
at  least  they  should  stem  the  flow  of  money  they  are 
sending  to  criminals  and  stop  the  exorbitant  flow  of 
money whereby users finance the deaths of thousands 
of  young  people.  If  they  cannot  do  so,  I  emphasize 
that this is the time to explore different alternatives to 
reduce consumption. 
to  assess 
Now is the time for the United Nations not only to 
take part in such an analysis but to lead in earnest a far-
reaching international discussion, in order to take stock 
of  the  scale  and  limits  of  the  current  prohibitionist 
approach  and 
the  brutal,  unacceptable 
violence  generated  by  the  production,  distribution, 
trafficking in and use of drugs. It is painful to say this, 
but  the  drug  trade  has  made  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  the  most  violent  region  in  the  world.  That 
assessment must be done with lucidity, academic rigour 
and  global  responsibility.  Taking  a  world  perspective, 
we  must  explore  alternatives,  specifically  regulatory 
or  market  alternatives,  to  see  what  are  and  what  are 
not real options that would allow all nations, working 
together, to put an end to the scourge that claims tens of 
thousands of lives in our region. 
As the United Nations considers and finds solutions 
to  global  problems  that  threaten  the  integrity,  health 
and lives of millions around the world, as it deals with 
famine, starvation in the Horn of Africa, epidemics such 
as the H1N1 virus in Mexico, and as it tackles climate 
change, so it must also take action to stop the wave of 
death  and  suffering  with  which  the  drug  trade  blights 
the lives of our people. I respectfully urge and exhort 
the United Nations not only to take part in but to lead a 
discussion, devoid of prejudgments, that addresses the 
scale of the twenty-first century challenge, encouraging 
all of us to seek new and effective approaches to solving 
this dire problem.
My  tenure  will  end  in  a  few  months.  I  am  proud 
that  Mexico  can  now  count  on  an  economy  that  is 
solid,  increasingly  competitive  and  able  to  generate 
700,000  new  formal  jobs  annually.  I  can  say  with 
satisfaction  that  today  Mexico  is  a  stronger,  more 
fair  and  more  prosperous  country,  as  our  indices  of 
human development for education, health, housing and 
employment show.
A/67/PV.9
I would also like to say that beyond tackling the four 
challenges I referred to earlier, as a world community 
we should strengthen the United Nations from the inside 
so  that  it  is  equipped  to  meet  global  challenges.  The 
initial  task  in  that  area  is  realistic,  democratic  reform 
of the Security Council to make it more representative 
and  maintain  its  capacity  for  action  by  improving  its 
working methods and the accountability of its members.
Mexico  also  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  President 
proposed “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means” 
as the main theme for this session. It is a crucial subject 
for civilized coexistence and cooperation. As a country, 
Mexico is committed to cooperation and the settlement 
of  disputes.  We  are  very  concerned,  as  we  know  the 
Assembly  is  also,  about  the  weakness  and,  at  times, 
the  inertia  of  the  Organization  in  the  face  of  flagrant 
violations  of  international  law.  The  grave  situation  in 
Syria, for example, is a danger to world peace and an 
indignity for all of us.
We condemn unreservedly the Damascus regime’s 
repression  and  the  violence  it  has  inflicted  on  the 
civilian population, which has lead to a refugee crisis in 
neighbouring  countries.  The  paralysis  of  the  Security 
Council in the face of such crises must drive us to renew 
our political will to change the Organization. Just as we 
have  transformed  and  embellished  the  United  Nations 
building  and  removed  the  asbestos  residue  that  we 
lived with for so many years, so it is important that we 
renovate  the  Organization  in  order  to  bring  it  in  line 
with the demands of the twenty-first century. 
We also condemn the premeditated terrorist attack 
on  the  United  States  Consulate  in  Benghazi  and  the 
assassination  of  the  United  States  Ambassador  and 
several members of his staff in Libya.
I  reiterate  that  Mexico  will  fully  comply  with 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  established  by 
this  great  Organization.  That  is  evident  in  our  human 
development  indices  for  education,  health,  housing, 
employment and social security. In the area of security, 
we  have  steadfastly  fought  criminal  groups,  updated 
our  laws  and  thoroughly  restructured  our  institutions. 
At  the  same  time,  we  have  continued  to  consolidate a 
democratic  culture  and  respect  for  human  rights.  In 
Mexico  today  we  have  enacted  reform  whereby  any 
human  right  recognized  in  any  international  treaty 
signed  by  Mexico  also  becomes  internal  law  for 
Mexican courts.
12-52201
39
A/67/PV.9
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
I am proud to leave a Mexico that has close relations 
of  friendship  and  cooperation  with  every  nation;  a 
Mexico that is an active participant in building a world 
of  peace,  justice,  security  and  development.  We  want 
freedom  for  men  and  women;  justice  and  respect  for 
human rights in our societies; an environment that we 
respect and that will allow our beloved planet Earth to 
live forever; and democracy, without which there is no 
freedom or development. And, of course, we seek and 
desire peace on Earth, goodwill to men, and peace to all 
those in this Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the United 
Mexican States for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Felipe  Calderón  Hinojosa,  President  of  the 
United  Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by the Right Honourable Mr. David 
Cameron, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Mr. David Cameron, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable 
Mr.  David  Cameron,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Cameron (United Kingdom): I am proud that 
this  year  Britain  welcomed  the  world  to  the  Olympic 
and  Paralympic  games  and  put  on  a  great  display, 
showing  that  while  we  may  have  only  the  twenty-
second-largest population in the world, we can roll out 
one of its warmest welcomes.
I am honoured, too, that in the coming year I have 
been asked to co-chair the high-level panel designed to 
help us build on one of the greatest achievements of the 
United  Nations,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Britain takes that work very seriously. I am convinced 
that  we  need  to  focus  more  than  ever  on  the  building 
blocks that take countries and people from poverty to 
prosperity. By those building blocks I mean the absence 
of conflict and corruption and the presence of property 
rights and the rule of law. We should never forget that 
for many in the world the closest relative of poverty is 
injustice.  Development  has  never  been  just  about  aid 
or money, but I am proud that Britain is a country that 
keeps its promises to the poorest in our world.
A  year  ago  I  stood  here  and  argued  that  the  Arab 
Spring  represented  an  unprecedented  opportunity  for 
advancing  peace,  prosperity  and  security.  One  year 
on,  some  believe  that  the  Arab  Spring  is  in  danger  of 
becoming  an  Arab  winter.  They  point  to  the  riots  on 
the streets, to Syria’s descent into a bloody civil war, to 
frustration at the lack of economic progress and to the 
emergence of newly elected Islamist-led Governments 
across the region.
But I believe those people are in danger of drawing 
the wrong conclusion. Today is not the time to turn back, 
but to keep the faith and to redouble our support for open 
societies and for people’s demands for a job and a voice. 
Yes, the path is challenging. But democracy is not, and 
never has been, simply about holding an election. It is 
not  one  person,  one  vote,  once.  Democracy  is  about 
establishing  the  building  blocks  of  true  democracy: 
the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, 
with  the  majority  prepared  to  defend  the  rights  of  the 
minority; the freedom of the media; a proper place for 
the  army  in  society;  and  the  development  of  effective 
State  institutions,  political  parties  and  a  wider  civil 
society.
I  am  not  so  naive  as  to  believe  that  democracy 
alone  has  some  magical  healing  power.  I  am  a  liberal 
Conservative,  not  a  neo-conservative.  I  respect  each 
country’s different histories and traditions. I welcome 
the steps taken in countries where reform is happening 
with  the  consent  of  the  people.  I  know  that  every 
country  takes  its  own  path,  and  that  progress  will 
sometimes  be  slow.  Some  countries  have  achieved 
stability  and  success  based  on  tradition  and  consent.
Others have endured decades in which the institutions 
of  civil  society  were  deliberately  destroyed,  political 
parties  banned,  free  media  abolished  and  the  rule  of 
law twisted for the benefit of the few. We cannot expect 
the  damage  of  decades  to  be  put  right  in  a  matter  of 
months.  But  the  drive  for  opportunity,  justice  and  the 
40 
12-52201
A/67/PV.9
rule of law and the hunger for a job and a voice are not 
responsible for the problems in the region. In fact, quite 
the  opposite:  the  building  blocks  of  democracy,  fair 
economies and open societies are part of the solution, 
not  part  of  the  problem.  We  in  the  United  Nations 
must step up our efforts to support the people of those 
countries as they build their own democratic future.
Let me take the key arguments in turn. First, there 
are  those  who  say  there  has  been  too  little  progress, 
that  the  Arab  Spring  has  produced  few  tangible 
improvements in people’s lives. That is not right. Look 
at  Libya  since  the  fall  of  Al-Qadhafi.  We  have  seen 
elections  to  create  a  new  Congress,  and  now  plans  to 
integrate  armed  groups  into  the  national  police  and 
army. None of that is to ignore the huge and sobering 
challenges that remain.
The  murder  of  Ambassador  Chris  Stevens  was  a 
despicable  act  of  terrorism.  But  the  right  response  is 
to  finish  the  work  that  Chris  Stevens  gave  his  life  to. 
That is what the vast majority of Libyans want, too, as 
we saw so inspiringly in Benghazi last weekend, when 
they  took  to  the  streets  in  the  thousands,  refusing  to 
allow extremists to hijack their chance for democracy.
The  Arab  Spring  has  also  brought  progress  in 
Egypt,  where  the  democratically  elected  President 
has  asserted  civilian  control  over  the  military;  in 
Yemen and Tunisia, where elections have brought new 
Governments  to  power;  and  in  Morocco,  where  there 
is a new Constitution and a Prime Minister appointed 
on  the  basis  of  a  popular  vote  for  the  first  time.  Even 
further afield, Somalia has also taken the first vital step 
forward by electing a new President. So there has been 
progress.  None  of  it  would  have  come  about  without 
people  standing  up  last  year  and  demanding  change, 
or  without  the  United  Nations  having  the  courage  to 
respond to those crises.
Secondly, there is the argument that the removal of 
dictators has somehow started to unleash a new wave of 
violence, extremism and instability. Some argue that in 
a volatile region, only an authoritarian strong man can 
maintain  stability  and  security.  Or  even,  some  argue, 
that recent events prove that democracy in the Middle 
East  brings  terrorism,  not  security,  and  sectarian 
conflict,  not  peace.  Again,  I  believe  we  should  reject 
that argument.
I  have  no  illusions  about  the  danger  that  political 
transition  can  be  exploited  by  violent  extremists.  I 
understand  the  importance  of  protecting  people  and 
defending  national  security.  Britain  is  determined 
to  work  with  our  allies  to  do  that.  But  democracy 
and  open  societies  are  not  the  problem.  The  fact  is 
that,  for  decades,  too  many  were  prepared  to  tolerate 
dictators  like  Al-Qadhafi  and  Al-Assad  on  the  basis 
that  they  would  keep  their  people  safe  at  home  and 
promote stability in the region and the wider world. In 
fact,  neither  was  true.  Not  only  were  theose  dictators 
repressing their people, ruling by control not by consent, 
plundering  the  national  wealth,  and  denying  people 
their  basic  rights  and  freedoms,  they  were  funding 
terrorism  overseas  as  well.  Brutal  dictatorships  made 
the  region  more  dangerous  not  less;  more  dangerous 
because  those  regimes  dealt  with  frustration  at  home 
by whipping up anger against their neighbours, against 
the  West,  against  Israel;  and  more  dangerous,  too, 
because people denied a job and a voice were given no 
alternative but a dead-end choice between dictatorship 
and extremism.
What  was  heartening  about  the  events  of  Tahrir 
Square was that the Egyptian people found their voice 
and  rejected  that  false  choice.  They  withheld  their 
consent from a Government that had lost all legitimacy, 
and they chose instead the road to a more open and fair 
society.  The  road  is  not  easy,  but  it  is  the  right  one.  I 
believe it will make countries safer in the end.
Next,  there  are  those  who  say  that,  whatever  may 
have been achieved elsewhere, in Syria the Arab Spring 
has unleashed a vortex of sectarian violence and hatred 
with  the  potential  to  destroy  the  whole  region.  Syria 
does present some profound challenges. But those who 
look at Syria today and blame the Arab Spring have got 
it  the  wrong  way  round.  We  cannot  blame  the  people 
for the behaviour of a brutal dictator. The responsibility 
lies with the brutal dictator himself.
Al-Assad  is  today  inflaming  Syria’s  sectarian 
tensions, just as his father did as far back as the slaughter 
in Hama 30 years ago. And not only in Syria; Al-Assad 
has colluded with those in Iran who are set on dragging 
the  region  into  wider  conflict.  The  only  way  out  of 
Syria’s nightmare is to move forward towards political 
transition and not to give up the cause of freedom. The 
future for Syria is a future without Al-Assad. It has to 
be  based  on  mutual  consent,  as  was  clearly  agreed  in 
the  International  Conference  on  Syria  held  in  Geneva 
in June. If anyone was in any doubt about the horrors 
that Al-Assad has inflicted on his people, just look at 
the evidence published this week by Save the Children: 
schools used as torture centres, children used for target 
12-52201
41
A/67/PV.9
practice.  A  16-year-old  Syrian  called  Wael  who  was 
detained in a police station in Daraa said: “I have seen 
children slaughtered. No, I do not think I will ever be 
OK again...lf there was even 1 per cent of humanity in 
the world, this would not happen”.
Today, I am announcing a new British task force to 
work with the Egyptian Government to gather evidence, 
trace assets, work to change European Union law and 
pursue the legal cases that will return the stolen money 
to its rightful owners, the Egyptian people.
The blood of those young children is a terrible stain 
on the reputation of the United Nations. In particular, 
it  is  a  stain  on  those  who  have  failed  to  stand  up  to 
these  atrocities  and  those  who  in  some  cases  aided 
and abetted Al-Assad’s regime of terror. lf the United 
Nations  Charter  is  to  have  any  value  in  the  twenty-
first  century,  we  must  now  join  together  to  support 
a  rapid  political  transition.  At  the  same  time,  no  one 
of  conscience  can  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  the  voices  of 
suffering. Security Council members have a particular 
responsibility to support the United Nations appeal for 
Syria. Britain, already the third biggest donor, is today 
announcing  a  further  $12  million  in  humanitarian 
support,  including  new  support  for  UNICEF’s  work 
to  help  Syrian  children.  We  look  to  our  international 
partners to do more as well.
Of  course,  the  Arab  Spring  has  not  removed 
overnight  the  profound  economic  challenges  that 
these  countries  face.  Too  many  countries  face  falling 
investment, rising food prices and bigger trade deficits. 
But  it  is  completely  wrong  to  suggest  that  the  Arab 
Spring has somehow created those economic problems. 
It  is  a  challenging  time  for  the  world  economy  as 
a  whole.  There  was  never  going  to  be  an  economic 
transformation  overnight,  not  least  because  far  from 
being successful open-market-based economies, many 
of  these  countries  were  beset  by  vested  interests  and 
corruption,  with  unaccountable  institutions.  That  has, 
one  might  say,  created  a  double  problem.  Not  just 
fragile economies, but worse, people were told they had 
experienced  free  enterprise  and  open  markets  when 
they had experienced nothing of the sort.
So we must help these countries unwind the legacy 
of  endemic  corruption,  military  expenditure  they 
cannot  afford,  natural  resources  unfairly  exploited;  in 
short, the mass kleptocracy that they suffered under for 
too long.
While I am on the subject of stolen assets, we also 
have  a  responsibility  to  help  these  countries  get  back 
the  stolen  assets  that  are  rightfully  theirs,  just  as  we 
have  returned  billions  of  dollars  of  assets  to  Libya.  It 
is  simply  not  good  enough  that  the  Egyptian  people 
continue to be denied those assets long after Mubarak 
has gone.
Finally, perhaps most challenging of all for Western 
countries  like  mine,  is  the  argument  that  elections 
have simply opened the door to Islamist parties whose 
values are incompatible with truly open societies. My 
response to this is clear. We should respect the outcome 
of  elections.  But  we  should  not  compromise  on  our 
definition  of  what  makes  an  open  society.  We  should 
judge Islamists by what they do. 
The  test  is  this.  Will  they  entrust  the  rights  of 
citizenship  to  fellow  countrymen  and  countrywomen 
who  do  not  share  their  specific  political  or  religious 
views?  Do  they  accept  that,  unlike  the  dictators  they 
replaced,  they  should  never  pervert  the  democratic 
process  to  hold  onto  power  if  they  lose  the  consent 
of  the  people  they  serve?  Will  they  live  up  to  their 
commitments to protect the rule of law for all citizens, 
to  defend  the  rights  of  Christians  and  minorities  and 
to allow women a full role in society, in the economy 
and  in  politics?  The  truth  is  this:  we  cannot  build 
strong economies, we cannot build open societies and 
we  cannot  have  inclusive  political  systems  if  we  lock 
out women. The eyes of the world today may be on the 
brothers, but the future is as much in the hands of their 
mothers, their sisters and their daughters.
Holding  Islamists  to  account  must  also  mean  that 
if  they  attempt  to  undermine  the  stability  of  other 
countries,  encourage  terrorism  instead  of  peace  or 
promote conflict instead of partnership, we will oppose 
them.  That  is  why  Iran  will  continue  to  face  the  full 
force of sanctions and scrutiny from the United Nations 
until it gives up its ambitions to spread a nuclear shadow 
over the world. It is also why we should not waver from 
our insistence that Hamas give up violence. Hamas must 
not be allowed to dictate the way forward. Palestinians 
should have the chance to fulfil the same aspirations for 
a job and a voice as others in the region, and we support 
their  right  to  have  a  State  and  a  home.  And  Israelis 
should be able to fulfil their own aspirations to live in 
peace and security with their neighbours.
Of  course  there  are  challenges  in  working  with 
Governments  that  have  different  views  and  cultural 
traditions.  But  there  is  a  fundamental  difference 
between Islam and extremism. Islam is a great religion 
observed peacefully and devoutly by more than 1 billion 
42 
12-52201
people.  Islamist  extremism  is  a  warped  political 
ideology  supported  by  a  minority  that  seeks  to  hijack 
that great religion, to gain respectability for its violent 
objectives. It is vital that we make that distinction.
In  Turkey,  we  see  a  Government  with  roots  in 
Islamic  values  but  with  democratic  politics,  an  open 
economy  and  a  responsible  attitude  to  supporting 
change  in  Libya,  Syria  and  elsewhere  in  the  region. 
I  profoundly  believe  the  same  path  is  open  to  Egypt, 
Tunisia and their neighbours. We must help them take 
it.  Democracy  and  Islam  can  flourish  alongside  one 
another. Let us judge Governments not by their religion, 
but by how they act and what they do. Let us engage with 
the new democratic Governments in Egypt, Tunisia and 
Libya  so  their  success  can  strengthen  democracy,  not 
undermine it.
There  is  no  doubt  that  we  are  in  the  midst  of 
profound  change  and  that  many  uncertainties  lie 
ahead.  But  the  building  blocks  of  democracy,  fair 
economies and open societies are part of the solution, 
not  the  problem.  Indeed,  nothing  in  the  last  year  has 
changed my fundamental conviction. The Arab Spring 
represents a precious opportunity for people to realize 
their aspirations for a job, a voice and a stake in their 
future.  We  in  the  United  Nations  must  do  everything 
we can to support them.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. David Cameron, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime Minister 
of Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime Minister of Japan, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Noda  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  First,  I  would  like 
to  express  my  sincere  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
A/67/PV.9
Mr.  Al-Nasser  for  his  dedication  during  his  one-year 
tenure  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  well 
as to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on 
his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  my 
deep respect to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his leadership.
One year ago, I started my speech on this rostrum by 
conveying our outpouring of appreciation to the world 
(see A/66/PV.19). It has been a year and a half since the 
Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011. The people 
in the affected areas are making strenuous efforts, with 
an unyielding spirit, to revive their hometowns. In order 
to respond to generous support from all over the world, 
we, the Japanese, vowed before the souls of the victims 
to hand the lessons learned from the disaster down to 
succeeding generations beyond our national borders.
Japan will continue to share those lessons learned 
with  the  world  in  order  to  build  societies  resilient  to 
natural disasters and to make concrete contributions to 
nuclear safety. The Fukushima Ministerial Conference 
on Nuclear Safety, which is scheduled for the end of this 
year, and is co-sponsored by the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  and  the  third  World  Conference  on 
Disaster Reduction, which Japan plans to host in three 
years,  will  also  provide  meaningful  opportunities  to 
share those lessons.
The  warning  from  nature  brought  on  by  the 
unprecedented earthquake and massive tsunami posed a 
more fundamental question as to how we should sustain 
our  civilization.  From  the  moment  of  birth,  human 
beings  transform  their  own  wisdom  into  the  power  to 
survive harsh natural environments. Despite advanced 
science and technology in modern civilization, however, 
the forces of nature have reminded us how weak human 
beings still are and that they have a fragile existence.
Threats  that  may  endanger  human  existence  lie 
not  only  in  nature,  but  in  advanced  civilization  itself. 
There  are  a  number  of  examples  of  those  threats, 
such  as  environmental  degradation,  terrorism  and  the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons. What is required for 
the  human  species  to  be  able  to  keep  its  presence  on 
Earth and continue to enjoy peace and prosperity? The 
answer is clear: humans must become wiser. 
Humans  have  so  far  gained  abundant  knowledge. 
The  revolution  in  information  and  communication 
technology unfolding in front of us is further building 
up  human  knowledge  on  a  geometric  scale  and  at  an 
12-52201
43
A/67/PV.9
exponential  speed.  Human  wisdom  seems  to  have 
improved dramatically. However, is that really true? At 
the forefront of a long human history, we are living in 
a  period  of  complicated  and  violent  change.  Tensions 
among  nations  have  risen  in  many  parts  of  the  world, 
with more uncertain prospects for the future. The real 
test for our survival in this unprecedented period is not 
how much knowledge and information we have, but to 
learn the true value of the numerous pearls of wisdom 
we have accumulated.
One  of  the  first  such  pearls  of  wisdom  humans 
gained was the power to give adequate thought to not 
only the present, but also the future. It is also the power 
to  imagine,  beyond  our  own  benefits,  the  benefits  to 
future generations and the power to act on their behalf. 
Agricultural society, which prompted human beings to 
adopt a new vista, was made possible through the long-
term perspective towards the future that human beings 
acquired  when  they  waited  for  the  harvest  instead  of 
thinking solely about immediate concerns.
Now  is  the  time  for  us  to  exert  our  wisdom  and 
build  a  sustainable  future  for  the  sake  of  succeeding 
generations.  Many  countries  have  built  up  massive 
fiscal  deficits,  therefore  fiscal  soundness  is  now 
a  common  challenge.  If  people  living  now  do  not 
overcome  deficits  by  cutting  spending  and  striving  to 
increase revenues, future generations will be forced to 
repay the deficits. 
That  structure  amounts  to  nothing  but  current 
generations exploiting future generations.
Democracy  has  been  historically  proven  to  be 
the  best  political  system.  However,  we  now  face 
the  enormous  challenge  of  learning  whether  or  not 
democracy can maintain fairness between generations 
across  the  globe.  Under  the  system  of  parliamentary 
democracy, today’s representatives serve people living 
now;  there  are  no  guarantees  with  respect  to  properly 
representing  the  interests  of  future  generations.  The 
current  structure  encourages  politics  that  will  burden 
silent  future  generations  by  passing  today’s  problems 
onto them. 
We  are  all  responsible  for  the  next  generations. 
This generation must successfully meet the challenges 
before  us,  and  today’s  political  leaders  must  take 
responsibility now for tomorrow. 
In  order  to  protect  sound  democratic  societies, 
now  is  the  time  to  exert  the  power  to  think  about  the 
benefits  for  future  generations.  Over  the  past  20-odd 
years,  Japan  repeatedly  procrastinated  in  policies  and 
was  considered  a  symbol  of  a  country  that  delayed 
decisions.  I  pledged  to  change  all  that  and  staked  my 
political life on implementing a comprehensive reform 
of our social security and taxation systems.
That  reform  is  an  ambitious  package  of  policies 
developed  to  support  Japan’s  social  security  system 
by  maintaining  a  stable  financial  basis  in  the  face 
of  a  rapidly  aging  population  and  by  paving  the  way 
for  fiscal  rehabilitation.  It  is  a  comprehensive  reform 
programme  that  pursues  both  economic  growth  and 
fiscal  reconstruction.  Japan  is  taking  a  firm  step 
towards  becoming  a  country  that  makes  decisions 
without postponing difficult issues.
Another  pearl  of  wisdom  that  humans  acquired 
came from the possibility of seeing the Earth we live on. 
I recently had the opportunity to communicate directly 
with astronaut Akihiko Hoshide from my office while 
he  was  orbiting  the  Earth  in  the  International  Space 
Station.  At  the  time  of  our  phone  linkup,  a  female 
elementary  school  student  who  was  in  the  office  with 
us  posed  a  riddle  to  the  astronaut:  “The  Earth  has  air 
and gravity, but space does not,” she said. “What does 
space  have  that  the  Earth  does  not?”  “The  view  of 
the  Earth  from  outside  it”,  the  astronaut  replied.  That 
conversation expressed in simple terms what I want to 
say today.
Because we have attained the perspective of being 
able  to  see  the  Earth  from  outside,  humankind  as  a 
whole  shares  the  sublime  mission  of  protecting  the 
global  environment.  We  must  always  return  to  that 
perspective,  reaching  beyond  borders  and  advancing 
concrete measures to protect the Earth’s environment, 
which is the a basis of human survival. 
With the aim of protecting the global environment, 
a  significant  outcome  for  sustainable  development 
was  achieved  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20) in June 2012. Japan 
announced  its  green  future  initiatives,  proposing  that 
we  explore  sustainable  growth  in  prosperity  without 
the  supply-demand  crunch  of  natural  resources  and 
energy  or  damage  to  the  global  environment.  Japan 
will implement a low carbon and sound material-cycle 
society and take the lead in solving the common energy 
challenges facing the world. To that end, we need more 
innovation in energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
In  the  light  of  the  accident  at  Tokyo  Electric  Power 
Company’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station on 
11 March 2011, and with the goal of achieving a society 
44 
12-52201
not  dependent  on  nuclear  power  by  the  2030s,  the 
Government of Japan will mobilize all possible policy 
resources  to  show  the  world  a  model  that  supports  a 
good  balance  between  the  shift  towards  green  energy 
and  economic  growth.  We  will  constantly  review  and 
re-examine  our  policies  while  carefully  assessing  the 
outlook  for  the  future,  including  the  international 
energy situation. 
Being  ever  more  conscious  of  our  one  precious 
Earth,  we  must  direct  our  caring  attention  to  the 
preciousness  of  each  life  breathing  on  the  planet. The 
Japan-led  resolution  on  human  security  (resolution 
66/290), adopted on 10 September, can be a solid guide 
to visualizing development for the next generation from 
the  perspective  of  all  people,  including  women  and 
young people. In the light of the common understanding 
of  human  security  stipulated  in  that  resolution,  Japan 
is  determined  to  contribute  to  worldwide  efforts  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to 
work towards the establishment of the next development 
framework.
The  ideal  of  human  security  needs  particular 
emphasis with respect to the African continent, which 
steadily  reveals  greater  development  potential  but 
still  suffers  from  many  challenges,  such  as  poverty, 
natural  disasters  and  conflicts.  On  the  occasion  of 
the  fifth  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development,  to  be  held  in  Yokohama  next  June, 
Japan  plans  to  discuss  the  measures  the  international 
community and Africa should adopt and implement. 
We  must  completely  and  successfully  meet  the 
challenges that place our precious lives in danger. 
is  making 
significant 
Afghanistan 
efforts 
towards  reconstruction  after  its  prolonged  experience 
of  war.  South  Sudan  is  also  moving  forward  in  its 
nation-building efforts, and Myanmar has taken steady 
steps towards democracy and reconciliation. Japan will 
do  its  utmost  to  support  and  promote  peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding  and  human  security  in  each  of  those 
regions.
A  third  pearl  of  wisdom  that  humans  obtained 
was the manner in which human beings settle disputes 
reasonably  under  rules.  Human  beings  acquired 
language  and  nurtured  wisdom,  but,  even  in  modern 
times, they have failed to resist the temptation to solve 
conflicts by force. Despite two world wars and the two 
calamities  of  atomic  bombs  dropped  on  Hiroshima 
and  Nagasaki,  disarmament,  the  non-proliferation  of 
A/67/PV.9
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the  prevention  of 
terrorism remain key contemporary issues. The nuclear 
and missile issues in the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  and  Iran  currently  pose  serious  threats 
to  the  entire  world.  It  is  essential  that  all  countries 
coordinate at the United Nations and the International 
Atomic Energy Agency, including the implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolutions  urging  both 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Iran  to 
take  concrete  action.  Japan,  the  only  country  that  has 
experienced  the  horror  of  nuclear  devastation  in  war, 
will continue to carry out its mission of seeking a world 
free of nuclear weapons.
The  issue  of  the  abductions  by  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  represents  a  violation  of 
basic human rights. That makes it a universal issue and 
a  matter  of  grave  concern  to  the  entire  international 
community. Japan is committed to continuing its utmost 
efforts to achieve the return of all victims at the earliest 
possible  date,  through  strengthened  coordination  with 
other  Member  States.  Japan  intends  to  maintain  its 
efforts  to  comprehensively  resolve  outstanding  issues 
of  concern,  settle  the  unfortunate  past  and  normalize 
relations  in  accordance  with  the  Japan-Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  Pyongyang  Declaration. 
Japan  continues  to  urge  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea to take positive steps.
Humans have done more than just act on their lust 
for  the  use  of  force.  We  have  also  developed  the  skill 
to  solve  conflicts  calmly  through  reason,  which  we 
call  the  rule  of  law.  Every  State  has  a  responsibility 
to  safeguard  peace,  ensure  the  safety  of  its  people 
and  protect  its  territorial  and  maritime  sovereignty. 
Japan  will  fulfil  those  responsibilities  in  accordance 
with  international  law.  Meanwhile,  as  globalization 
proceeds,  the  challenges  confronting  the  international 
community  are  growing  increasingly  complex,  and 
relations between nations can easily become tense. 
At this critical juncture, we must establish the rule of 
law as a basis for global peace, stability and prosperity. 
Because  the  rule  of  law  is  essential  to  preventing and 
resolving conflicts in a peaceful manner, and because 
it plays a critical role in the maintenance of stable and 
predictable societies, it must be further enhanced. Any 
attempt  to  impose  a  country’s  ideology  or  claim  by 
unilateral use of force or by threat of the use of force is 
inconsistent with the fundamental spirit of the United 
Nations Charter and runs counter to human wisdom; it 
is  thus  absolutely  unacceptable.  It  is  important  to  try 
12-52201
45
A/67/PV.9
to  further  develop  international  law  and  ensure  that 
it  gets  implemented  more  effectively.  I  strongly  call 
for leaders to strengthen the rule of law so as to leave 
future  generations  with  a  more  peaceful  and  stable 
international community.
We  are  currently  witnessing  the  settlement  of 
conflicts between nations on the basis of international 
law. A typical example is the dispute settlement process 
of the World Trade Organization, a mechanism that has 
made it possible for States to solve trade disputes with 
the common language of law, not by force, in a panel or 
appellate body.
Japan  has  always  valued  the  rule  of  law  and  has 
contributed  to  strengthening  it.  Since  joining  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Japan  has  consistently 
recognized the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory 
and has taken the lead in practicing the rule of law. 
Japan  is  leading  the  world  in  its  contributions 
of  personnel  and  financing  to  international  judicial 
institutions.  In  addition  to  having  served  at  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Japanese  judges  have 
also served at the International Tribunal for the Law of 
the Sea, the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the 
Extraordinary  Chambers  in  the  Courts  of  Cambodia. 
Furthermore,  Japan  has  provided  the  largest  financial 
support of any country for the latter three institutions. 
Japan  requests  each  country  to  kindly  offer  financial 
support  to  the  Extraordinary  Chambers  in  the  Courts 
of Cambodia, which is facing a severe financial crisis 
at the moment.
Supporting the United Nations in promoting the rule 
of law continues to be a great challenge. Once again, I 
call for nations to work in cooperation with the United 
Nations  to  recognize  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  Japan  did,  and 
for  non-member  countries  of  the  ICC  and  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to join at an 
early date.
There are still a number of territorial and maritime 
disputes in many parts of the world. It is the philosophy 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  a  principle 
shared  by  the  international  community  as  a  whole 
that  disputes  should  be  settled  in  a  peaceful  manner 
on the basis of international law. In all circumstances, 
Japan is determined to comply with that principle and 
seek  peaceful  solutions  based  on  international  law. 
The  world  should  pay  greater  attention  to  the  role  the 
international  judicial  institutions  play  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
Although  the  Middle  East  and  Africa  are  still  in 
a  tumultuous  whirlwind,  they  are  in  fact  moving  in 
the  direction  of  establishing  democracy.  Japan  will 
continue  to  support  efforts  at  democratization  and 
reform of every country. Moreover, we cannot overlook 
the  ongoing  violence  and  suppression  in  Syria,  or  the 
serious  violations  of  human  rights  with  respect  to 
the  rule  of  law.  Japan  strongly  condemns  the  massive 
attacks  in  Syria  that  have  involved  tens  of  thousands 
of  innocent  citizens,  journalists  and  aid  workers, 
including Ms. Mika Yamamoto, a Japanese journalist. 
Japan intends to put more pressure on the Government 
of  Syria,  together  with  the  international  community, 
and to extend humanitarian assistance to the people of 
Syria.
Let me emphasize that the international community 
must secure the protection of civilians and the safety of 
diplomats  and  workers  of  international  organizations 
through  the  rule  of  law.  Today,  violence  against  that 
principle cannot be tolerated for any reason.
The concept of the rule of law is the foundation for 
a stable and reliable society, making the movement of 
peoples and goods more vibrant and serving as a basis 
of prosperity. I believe that the rule of law can provide 
important infrastructure for order and prosperity for a 
network  of  States  centred  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region. 
Japan will vigorously contribute to rule-making efforts 
to expand trade and investment, build maritime order, 
including the safety of navigation, and create stability 
for prosperity.
The  rules  needed  by  the  international  community 
are not simply for solving individual problems. Orderly 
relations  between  nations  or  within 
international 
organizations require the rule of law, more specifically, 
enhanced  global  governance.  Unless  all  nations  fulfil 
their responsibilities in their respective capacities, we 
cannot  overcome  the  various  common  challenges  that 
the world is facing. I hope in particular that emerging 
countries will fulfil their responsibilities commensurate 
with their respective national powers.
As  part  of  such  efforts,  it  is  important  that  we 
engage  in  thorough  discussions  on  how  the  United 
Nations  should  develop  in  the  future.  We  strongly 
support  management  reform  at  the  United  Nations. 
Furthermore,  in  order  for  the  Security  Council  to  be 
fully  effective,  it  must  be  endowed  with  a  legitimacy 
46 
12-52201
A/67/PV.9
that  reflects  the  realities  of  the  world  today.  Japan 
is  ready  to  take  on  greater  responsibility  in  the 
international community. Now is the time to accelerate 
the stalled process on Security Council reform and to 
start genuine negotiations.
So  far  I  have  mentioned  three  pearls  of  wisdom 
necessary  for  human  beings  to  live  sustainable  lives 
in  the  future,  and  I  have  tried  to  convey  Japan’s 
contribution in each. It is my belief that human beings 
will continue to adapt to a complex world and become 
wiser.  I  believe  they  will  give  adequate  consideration 
to future generations and solve disputes calmly through 
reason based on rules generated from the perspective of 
looking at the Earth from the outside.
Let  us  take  charge  of  our  responsibilities  for 
tomorrow together. The lofty task for us living now is 
to  carry  out  politics  while  imagining  the  benefits  for 
future  generations  and  gather  all  our  wisdom  to  set  a 
course towards the survival of human beings.
I should like to conclude my remarks by pledging 
to the entire General Assembly that Japan will stand at 
the forefront of shaping the future of human history for 
peaceful and affluent societies.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime Minister of Japan, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, President 
of the European Council 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Herman  Van 
Rompuy, President of the European Council. 
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
European Council, was escorted to the rostrum. 
the 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy, 
President of the European Council, and inviting him to 
make a statement. 
Mr.  Van  Rompuy  (European  Council)  (spoke  in 
French): The advance of democracy has taken place in 
successive waves since the United Nations was created. 
That  advance  has  experienced  a  new  acceleration, 
which we all can all welcome. Without underestimating 
the difficulties and problems encountered elsewhere, I 
am thinking especially of the positive developments in 
Myanmar  and  Somalia  and  of  the  young  democracies 
throughout the world, such as Timor-Leste. 
But it is, of course, the transformations under way 
in the Arab world that are foremost in my mind today.
(spoke in English)
When  these  historic  changes  swept  through  the 
Arab  world,  they  stirred  a  mixture  of  deep  emotions 
in those watching, both within the region and beyond. 
There  was  fear  of  bloodshed,  regional  instability  and 
of  a  rise  of  extremism,  and  uncertainty  about  what 
was  yet  to  come.  But,  overwhelmingly,  the  world 
looked  on  with  solidarity,  understanding  and  hope. 
We in Europe — geographically so close and with our 
societies so deeply involved with those in the countries 
experiencing  these  upheavals  —  were  also  acutely 
aware that the changes and the risks and opportunities 
that lay ahead would directly affect us as neighbours.
Of course, expectations were high. It was tempting 
to read the events in Tunis or Cairo as the opening pages 
of a fairy tale. But this is the book of history. It contains 
dark pages too, some of them tragically being written 
at this very moment. We are bound by a simple truth: 
achieving  lasting  change  takes  time.  New  democratic 
institutions do not run smoothly as if by magic. Turning 
economies  around  and  creating  jobs  for  millions  of 
young men and women are not things that happen at the 
wave of a wand. Deep tensions do not suddenly dissolve 
once a dictator has gone.
The  long  path  of  transition  lies  ahead.  There  will 
undoubtedly be disappointments along the way. There 
will be wrong turns, hurdles and setbacks. But I firmly 
believe  that  despite  the  difficulties,  the  momentum  is 
heading  in  the  right  direction  and  there  is  no  going 
back. Whatever the future brings, the Arab Spring will 
remain a turning point. The movement is irreversible. 
Once the voices of the people have been set free — an 
unforgettable  experience  for  all  those  who  had  never 
been heard before — those voices cannot be silenced.
It is the responsibility of each country to chart its 
own  course  and  to  do  justice  to  the  aspirations  of  its 
people. The European Union is committed to staying by 
their side every step along the way. We are in it for the 
long run. I want to reaffirm that we still believe in the 
message of the Arab Spring.
Europeans  are  well  placed  to  recognize  that 
political  change  is  not  painless  and  does  not  happen 
12-52201
47
A/67/PV.9
overnight.  We  know  about  long  transitions.  When 
European integration first started, within my lifetime, 
a  majority  of  the  countries  that  are  now  members 
were  not  yet  democracies.  For  us,  a  transition  of  such 
magnitude should not be judged by its speed but by its 
direction  and  by  progress  achieved  through  countless 
steps forward.
The  starting  point  is  free  and  fair  elections.  We 
therefore commend the achievements of Tunisia, Libya, 
Egypt  and  other  countries  in  successfully  organizing 
democratic  elections,  in  which  many  citizens  voted 
freely for the very first time in their lives — elections 
for which we were happy to lend expertise to national 
and local authorities.
In order to ultimately bring jobs, social justice and 
freedom  of  expression  to  all,  this  gigantic  democratic 
process  will  have  to  overcome,  every  single  day, 
the  obstacles  of  corruption,  red  tape  and  economic 
privileges  and  maintain  the  political  determination  to 
ensure inclusiveness. It is an important effort, to which 
many parties are contributing. For our part, across the 
region  we  offer  advice  to  entrepreneurs  and  officials, 
help train judges and police and support journalists and 
civil society groups.
In  our  experience,  societies  are  stronger  when 
women  are  fully  able  to  take  part  in  the  political  and 
economic  lives  of  their  countries,  when  their  voices 
are  heard  and  their  choices  respected.  There  may  be 
temptations, once power is gained, to refuse to grant to 
some the rights that until recently were withheld from 
all. But a democracy can flourish only when it gives all 
its people — whatever their gender, religion, language 
or  ethnic  identity  —  an  equal  say  and  equal  rights, 
guaranteed in law and in practice.
Finally,  neighbours  can  achieve  more  when  they 
work  together.  That  is  why  we  share  experience  from 
our own European union on issues such as connecting 
energy  networks  and  removing  regional  obstacles  to 
trade.
Bringing together and reconciling former enemies 
in  a  common  desire  for  peace,  democracy  and 
prosperity has been one of the European Union’s great 
achievements.  Respect,  tolerance  and  non-violence 
are  the  core  values,  without  which  living  together 
harmoniously is not possible. These are fragile values; 
sustaining them requires constant attention, especially 
in a global digital world in which messages of all kinds 
can spread faster than ever and can easily be exploited.
Tolerance  is  the  ability  to  withstand  criticism,  to 
offer  dialogue,  to  refrain  from  violence.  As  such,  it 
shows  self-confidence.  At  the  same  time,  respect  for 
the faith and beliefs of others is a key value for living 
together.  Tolerance  and  respect  acquire  their  full 
meaning  in  an  open  society  that  protects  freedom  of 
expression. Each and every one of us in this Hall has a 
responsibility  to  defend  and  promote  tolerance  in  and 
between  our  countries,  as  well  as  respect.  Violence 
and killing, such as that of United States Ambassador 
Christopher Stevens, can never be justified, regardless 
of their motivations.
Today  I  join  the  voice  of  Europe  to  those  who 
have  spoken  to  deplore  the  civil  war  raging  in  Syria. 
Confronted  with  the  massacre  of  tens  of  thousands  of 
people, the world has united in horror and condemnation, 
but — we must be frank — we have not yet been able to 
stop  the  brutal  violence.  Of  course  Europe  and  others 
provide  humanitarian  support  to  refugees.  Of  course 
we  support  individuals  who  risk  their  lives  collecting 
evidence  of  the  massacres.  Of  course  our  diplomats 
in  Damascus  do  their  utmost  to  support  the  United 
Nations  efforts  for  a  peaceful  solution.  But  we  will 
remain  powerless  unless  the  international  community 
unites in a common determination to end this senseless 
violence, which threatens to wreak havoc in the whole 
region.
I  should  like  to  commend  the  excellent  work  and 
strong commitment of the Secretary-General, as well as 
that of Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi, to find 
a solution to overcome this tragedy. 
I  also  welcome  the  initiatives  aimed  at  bringing 
together  the  main  regional  players  in  a  coherent 
international  approach.  Earlier  this  year,  European 
leaders called upon all members of the Security Council 
to work together in an effort to stop the violence. Today 
that call is even more urgent.
The  country  needs  to  move  quickly  towards  a 
Syrian-led political transition that meets the democratic 
aspirations of the Syrian people, while fully respecting 
the civil and human rights of minorities. It is the only 
way out. Those responsible for the repression have no 
place in determining the future of Syria and must step 
aside. The longer that the conflict continues, the more 
radicalized  people  will  become,  the  more  blood  will 
needlessly  be  shed,  and  the  longer  it  will  take  for  the 
wounds to heal.
48 
12-52201
A/67/PV.9
The security situation remains complex and fragile 
in many parts of the world. The events of the Arab Spring 
should not distract us from the urgent task of achieving 
peace in the Middle East — quite the contrary. There 
are  also  other  pressing  issues,  including  addressing 
instability and the humanitarian situation in the Sahel 
region; bringing peace and stability to the Great Lakes 
region;  convincing  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  to  abandon  its  nuclear  weapons  and  missile 
programmes;  and  finding  a  negotiated  solution  to  the 
Iranian  nuclear  issue,  an  issue  to  which  the  European 
Union is directly committed.
We  must  address  all  of  those  concerns,  with  the 
knowldege  that  lasting  solutions  require  political  will 
from  the  countries  involved.  In  the  same  spirit,  it  is 
important  that  tensions  in  the  East  and  South-East 
Asian  maritime  areas  subside  and  that  disputes  be 
settled  peacefully  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  based  on 
respect for international law.
There  are  many  global  challenges  that  we  must 
tackle together. But without multilateral cooperation on 
issues ranging from fighting climate change to reducing 
poverty  around  the  world,  we  will  not  succeed.  That 
is  why  the  European  Union  fully  supports  a  stronger, 
more effective and more efficient United Nations.
Citizens in all our countries want jobs. In that regard 
as well, global cooperation is indispensable and is the 
best way to ensure the world’s economic recovery. Our 
economies have become completely interdependent. No 
country can solve its issues alone; no country can afford 
to ignore the problems of others. Do we know that? Yes. 
Do we act upon that knowledge? Not often enough.
In  2008,  at  the  start  of  the  global  financial  crisis, 
there was a brief moment of global awareness, a sense 
of  urgency  that  led  to  new  forums,  joint  pledges  and 
coordinated  action.  Today,  although  the  crisis  is  still 
with us, our resolve in the current period after the failure 
of Lehman Brothers seems to have waned and must be 
revived. All major economies need to play their part in 
putting the world economy back on the path of growth. 
Global  growth  depends  on  structural  reforms  in  each 
of  our  countries  and  on  reducing  the  macroeconomic 
imbalances among them.
In  Europe  we  are  doing  our  part  of  that  work. 
No  effort  has  been  spared  to  overcome  the  current 
difficulties  in  the  eurozone.  We  have  been  setting  up 
stronger  firewalls  to  guarantee  the  stability  of  our 
common currency, and we are reforming our economies 
to  become  more  competitive  and  create  jobs  for  the 
future.  We  have  started  building  a  banking  union  to 
better manage and contain financial sector risk; and in 
the coming months we will be defining the perspectives 
on  where  we  are  headed  and  where  we  want  our 
economic and monetary union to be in 10 years’ time.
We have already come a long way, and today we see 
the first results of that collective endeavour. Although 
there is still some way to go, I am confident that those 
efforts  will  meet  with  success  and  that  Europe  will 
emerge from the experience stronger, economically and 
politically.
(spoke in French)
That  is  what  I  have  come  before  the  Assembly  to 
say. In our view as Europeans, managing the financial 
crisis  not  only  concerns  monetary  operations  and 
balancing budgets. What is at stake is the very future 
of our European project. The project was born in order 
to  overcome  the  wars  and  dictatorships  that  had  long 
haunted  our  continent.  For  60  years,  our  union  has 
allowed us to end nationalist hatred between countries 
and to establish a unified continent in peace that seeks 
social  justice  and  prosperity,  which  requires  daily 
efforts  to  maintain  those  values  and  establish  them 
more  firmly.  Gains  can  always  be  forfeited.  At  the 
global  level,  it  is  the  task  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
strive  tirelessly  to  pursue  the  same  goals  that  we  all 
share,  and  to  clear  the  way  forward  towards  greater 
harmony and greater progress throughout the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Herman van Rompuy, President of the European 
Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Highness Sheikh Jaber 
Al Mubarak Al Hamad Al Sabah, Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al  Mubarak  Al  Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh  Jaber  Al  Mubarak 
Al  Hamad  Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
12-52201
49
A/67/PV.9
of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
His Highness Sheikh Al Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in 
Arabic): At the outset, in the name of the Government and 
the people of the State of Kuwait, I have the pleasure of 
extending to the President and to his fraternal country, 
Serbia, our sincerest congratulations on his election as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session.  I  wish  him  every  success  in  his  endeavours. 
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser 
on his successful presidency of the previous session. 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  pay  tribute  to  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
continued  efforts  in  leading  the  Organization  and 
spreading  its  noble  message  on  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  I  wish  him  every 
success  in  achieving  the  priorities  he  has  set  for 
his  second  term,  in  the  political,  economic  and 
humanitarian fields.
On our part, we reaffirm the continued cooperation 
of  the  State  of  Kuwait  and  its  full  commitment 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in  its 
endeavours  to  achieve  the  aims  and  purposes  of  the 
Charter, as well as to strengthen and activate its role in 
following up the outcomes agreed upon in international 
forums. In that context, the State of Kuwait emphasizes 
the  need  for  a  thorough  preparation  of  the  2012 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  as  agreed  in  the  Final  Document  of  the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Numerous 
challenges face the Organization as it nears its seventh 
decade. From its inception, the United Nations and all 
of its organs and agencies have worked to contain and 
resolve many crises and to meet political, humanitarian 
and  economic  challenges.  However,  in  this  era  of 
globalization  and  the  information  revolution,  poor 
coordination,  flaws  in  joint  actions  and  the  failure  of 
some  States  to  fulfil  their  obligations  have  prevented 
the United Nations from reaching conclusive solutions. 
Therefore,  in  fulfilment  of  the  aspirations  of  the 
peoples we represent, it is important for us to work on 
reforming, developing and refining the United Nations, 
as well as providing the firm political will to enhance 
its performance and to face up to new challenges.
There  have  been  two  decades  of  discussion  and 
in-depth  negotiation  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  focused  mainly  on  the  expansion  of  the 
Council’s  membership,  including  how  many  members 
are  needed 
to  achieve  an  equitable  degree  of 
representation, and on improving its working methods. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  reaffirms  the  need  to  reform 
the  Security  Council  to  reflect  the  new  international 
reality and to ensure that Arab and Islamic States are 
represented  fairly,  in  conformity  with  their  size,  their 
contributions and their role in advancing the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
I should like to quote from the statement delivered 
by His Highness the Amir of the State of Kuwait at the 
Summit  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation 
held in the Holy City of Mecca on 13 August: 
“The killing and destruction that we witness on a 
daily basis in sisterly Syria evokes grief and pain. 
Sadly, a child who has lost his parents and his home, 
a  mother  mourning  her  nearest  and  dearest,  cities 
that  have  turned  into  ghost  towns  owing  to  the 
horrific destruction that has befallen them — these 
have  become  all  too  familiar  sights.  Such  scenes 
redouble  our  responsibilities  before  the  Almighty 
as well as before all our peoples. I call upon us to 
move  without  delay  to  put  an  end  to  this  bloody 
tragedy”.
We would like to congratulate Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States for Syria, on his appointment. 
Kuwait  supports  him  in  his  undertaking  and  his 
determination to continue the work of his predecessor, 
Mr. Kofi Annan, which yielded the six-point plan that 
would have resulted in a peaceful resolution of the crisis, 
had it been actively considered. We reaffirm Kuwait’s 
commitment to international efforts to reach a political 
solution  that  fulfils  the  demands  and  aspirations  of 
the Syrian people. We would also like to redouble our 
efforts  with  the  international  community,  to  which 
we  appeal  for  additional  humanitarian  assistance  to 
alleviate  the  pain  and  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people, 
both within and outside Syria.
This November, the State of Kuwait will celebrate 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  ratification  of  its 
Constitution,  which  is  regarded  as  the  culmination 
of  four  centuries  of  political  progress  and  growth.In 
consolidation the development of relations between ruler 
and ruled towards the effective practice of democracy, 
50 
12-52201
the  Constitution  is  considered  the  beacon  that  guides 
the State of Kuwait, its Government and people towards 
a  dignified  life  by  establishing  rights  and  duties, 
guaranteeing basic freedoms, outlining general policies 
and regulating foreign relations without interference in 
the  internal  affairs  of  other  States.  The  Constitution 
serves as an interpretation of Kuwait’s political vision, 
based  on  its  belief  in,  and  pursuit  of,  peace,  together 
with its determination to develop and foster its relations 
with  neighbouring  countries,  in  accordance  with  the 
principles of mutual respect and common interests.
Mr. Roman-Morey (Peru), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
and 
Relations  between  Kuwait 
Iraq  have 
progressed  very  positively,  and  the  State  of  Kuwait 
regards  the  painful  wound  of  invasion  as  healed.  The 
participation of His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad 
Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Amir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
in  the  Arab  Summit  held  in  Baghdad  in  March  did 
much  to  bring  about  a  qualitative  leap  forward  in  our 
bilateral  relations.  Moreover,  the  visit  to  Kuwait  by 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nuri  Kamel  al-Maliki,  Prime 
Minister  of  Iraq,  created  an  atmosphere  of  trust  and 
determination  that  has  helped  to  turn  the  page  with 
respect to commitments and relations between our two 
countries.  Subsequently,  a  second  round  of  meetings 
of  the  Joint  Kuwait-Iraq  Ministerial  Committee  was 
convened in Baghdad in April, reflecting the desire of 
both sides to turn away from the past.
Important  understandings  reflecting  the  interests 
of  the  our  countries  have  been  reached  on  some 
of  the  outstanding  bilateral  issues.  There  has  been 
agreement  also  on  a  work  programme  to  accelerate 
Iraq’s  implementation  of  its  remaining  international 
obligations,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions, whereupon Iraq will have fulfilled 
its obligations under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations and will be able to exercise its natural 
role  regionally  and  internationally.  That  development 
will help to improve the climate for achieving regional 
security  and  peace,  which  are  prerequisites  for  the 
prosperity  and  progress  of  a  region  that  has  suffered 
from wars and devastating conflicts for the past three 
decades.
On  the  regional  level,  the  State  of  Kuwait  renews 
its call to the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran to take 
deliberate  and  effective  steps  towards  cooperating 
with  international  efforts  aim  at  reaching  a  political 
settlement with regard to its nuclear programme and at 
A/67/PV.9
dispelling  doubts  surrounding  its  goals  and  purposes, 
thereby  averting  further  crises  and  conflicts,  which, 
unfortunately,  have  become  associated  with  this  vital 
region of the world. We hope that the Islamic Republic 
of Iran will be a positive and active party in the region, 
exercising  its  role  in  accordance  with  the  basic  rules 
and principles of mutual respect and common interests, 
thereby creating a normal environment of cooperation 
that  will  serve  the  peoples  of  the  region,  free  from 
interference in their internal affairs. 
Along the same lines, we also hope that the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  will  cooperate  and  respond  to  the 
initiatives  intended  to  resolve  the  conflict  over  the 
three occupied Emirati islands, in conformity with the 
principles and norms of international law.
The  continued  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian 
territories testifies to the inability of the international 
community  to  come  up  with  solutions  that  will  put 
an  end  to  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
Israeli Government, in gross violation of international 
conventions and norms, persists in its intransigence and 
illegal policies through its expansion of settlements in 
the occupied Palestinian territory, as well as through its 
blockade of the Gaza Strip. Those actions do not help 
the cause of the just and lasting peace we desire in the 
Middle East. We therefore demand that the international 
community,  represented  by  the  Security  Council,  put 
pressure  on  Israel  and  compel  it  to  implement  the 
resolutions of international legitimacy, the principle of 
land  for  peace,  the  Quartet’s  road  map  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative, so as to guarantee the establishment of 
the Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
and the total Israeli withdrawal from all Arab territories 
occupied since 4 June 1967.
Some States face special and chronic challenges that 
have  led  to  their  marginalization  on  the  international 
scene for many long years. They are at risk of becoming 
failed  States  if  the  international  community  does  not 
redouble  its  efforts  to  help  them  get  back  on  their 
feet  and  start  them  on  a path  that  will  enable  them  to 
function normally and to become effective participants 
in today’s world.
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the 
decisions  and  steps  taken  by  President  Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour  and  the  Yemeni  Government 
to implement the Gulf Cooperation Council’s initiative 
and  its  implementation  mechanism,  and  to  support 
finalization  of  the  Initiative’s  remaining  items.  We 
also  reaffirm  our  confidence  that  Yemen,  under  an 
12-52201
51
A/67/PV.9
elected President and a Government of national unity, 
is capable of achieving the development and progress in 
various areas that the fraternal Yemeni people aspire to. 
We also reaffirm our continued backing and support for 
the  Yemeni  Republic’s  efforts  to  ensure  political  and 
economic stability.
also 
like 
to 
We  would 
congratulate 
the 
fraternal  Republic  of  Somalia  on  the  great  historic 
accomplishment  represented  by  its  ratification  of  a 
provisional constitution and the election of Mr. Hassan 
Sheikh  Mohamud  as  President.  We  hope  that  these 
positive  developments  will  help  lift  Somalia  from  a 
state  of  conflict  and  national  chaos  to  one  governed 
by  constitutional 
launching  a 
new  political  future  that  will  see  the  ambitions  and 
aspirations of the fraternal Somali people fulfilled.
institutions, 
thus 
We  commend  the  positive  reaction  of  the  United 
Nations and the international community to the bloody 
events that the Muslim minority in Myanmar has been 
subjected  to,  and  hope  that  those  efforts  will  help  to 
stop  the  violence,  preserve  people’s  legitimate  rights 
and enable peace to prevail.
The President returned to the Chair.
The peoples and Governments of Islamic countries 
have expressed their strong condemnation and outrage 
over  the  film  denigrating  the  Prophet  Muhammad, 
God’s blessing and peace be upon him, and the Islamic 
faith and its benevolent values. That irresponsible and 
impudent act has ignited extreme rage among Muslim 
peoples and communities all over the world, including 
acts  of  violence,  destruction,  and  killings  in  some 
countries.  While  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  denounced 
the film in the strongest possible terms, as well as the 
subsequent killing and destruction, which are very far 
from  the  spirit  and  essence  of  Islam,  in  this  context  I 
would  like  to  recall  what  His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait,  proposed  at  the  General  Assembly’s  high-
level  meeting  on  the  culture  of  peace,  held  on  12  and 
13 November 2008:
“The  best  outcome 
to  our  well-intended 
gathering in this Hall would be a joint international 
commitment  to  respect  all  religions  and  to  avoid 
damaging,  interfering  with  or  ridiculing  their 
symbols, while endeavouring to deter such acts and 
those who advocate them.” (A/63/PV.46, p. 10) 
We urge the Assembly to give serious consideration 
at  this  session  to  the  Amir’s  proposal  and  adopt  a 
resolution to implement it for the benefit of the whole 
of humankind and to promote social peace and security 
among nations.
Our world faces numerous environmental, economic, 
social and security issues. Those issues are intertwined 
and  complex  and  the  source  of  many  challenges  to 
States and peoples, particularly in developing and least-
developed  countries.  The  consequences  of  the  global 
financial crisis, the rise in basic commodity prices, the 
clear  negative  impact  of  climate  change,  the  growing 
frequency  of  natural  disasters  and  the  intensification 
of  terrorism  have  put  the  focus  on  the  ugly  face  of 
poverty and hunger, as well as the spread of epidemics 
and communicable and dangerous diseases. Despite the 
notable accomplishments of many States in their efforts 
to reach the Millennium Development Goals, we have 
not yet achieved all the objectives we set ourselves as 
a  whole.  It  is  essential,  therefore,  that  we  pursue  our 
joint  efforts  to  limit  the  effects  of  the  challenges  we 
face and contain them in order to ensure our ultimate 
full attainment of these noble goals.
While  the  State  of  Kuwait  is  itself  considered  a 
developing  country,  since  gaining  independence  in 
1961  it  has  embarked  on  a  steady  course  in  which  we 
attach great importance to helping developing and least-
developed  countries.  We  do  this  through  numerous 
mechanisms  and  initiatives,  including  the  Kuwait 
Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Development,  which  gives 
development aid to Arab, Asian and African countries, 
as  well  as  countries  in  Central  and  Latin  America, 
based on our belief in the importance of international 
cooperation and helping nations and peoples in need.
Based on our desire to increase joint regional and 
international activities and enhance their effectiveness, 
and in recognition of the fact that various forums held 
around  the  world  have  become  major  channels  for 
examining  regional  and  economic  cooperation  and 
maximizing  the  benefits  derived  from  sharing  States’ 
successful  experiences,  in  October  last  year  Kuwait 
hosted the most recent meeting of the Asia Cooperation 
Dialogue  (ACD),  held  annually  for  the  past  10  years 
at  the  level  of  Foreign  Minister  of  the  participating 
countries. Kuwait also called for the convening of the 
first Summit of the ACD countries, to be held in Kuwait 
on 15 and 16 October. We hope that this meeting will 
give leaders of Asian States the opportunity to discuss 
every  topic  of  importance  in  the  areas  of  economic, 
52 
12-52201
environmental  and  humanitarian  affairs.  In  March 
2013 Kuwait will also host the Arab-African Summit, 
which we hope will deepen Arab-African cooperation 
and open new horizons to serve stability, development 
and cooperation among the peoples of these two groups 
of countries.
In  2011,  financial  markets  showed  serious  new 
signs  of  tension,  due  primarily  to  the  deterioration  of 
public  finances.  What  we  have  been  experiencing  is 
not  a  recurrent  cyclical  imbalance.  In  the  case  of  the 
European Union (EU), it is the deepest and worst crisis 
in its history.
A/67/PV.9
In  conclusion,  I  affirm  the  State  of  Kuwait’s 
allegiance to the multilateral international system and 
to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. We also believe in the necessity for all States 
to  abide  by  the  obligations  and  responsibilities  they 
have  committed  to  in  international  agreements  and 
conferences, thus contributing to finding just and fair 
solutions to global threats and challenges.
The State of Kuwait believes that dialogue and the 
promotion  of  a  culture  of  tolerance,  moderation  and 
rejection  of  violence  and  extremism  are  ideal  means 
for  advancing  the  values  of  equality  and  justice,  in 
order  to  reach  our  higher  goal  —  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait for the statement he has just made.
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al Mubarak Al Hamad 
Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mario Monti, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Italy
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy.
Mr. Mario Monti, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Italy, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Monti  (Italy):  I  wish  to  warmly  congratulate 
you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session.  Rest  assured 
that  you  have  Italy’s  full  support  as  you  assume  your 
crucial  responsibilities  in  the  service  of  international 
peace and cooperation.
Every  day  and  everywhere,  people  strive  to 
overcome  fear,  achieve  justice  and  persevere  through 
hardship  and  uncertainty  to  protect  their  families 
and  livelihoods  and  to  ensure  a  better  future  for  their 
children.  Governments  strive  to  achieve  and  preserve 
peace,  justice  and  prosperity  in  a  world  gripped  by 
political tensions, civil wars and a severe economic and 
financial crisis.
Other crises threatened the European project in the 
past, but each time Europeans found a way to continue 
down  the  path  on  which  they  embarked  upon  more 
than 50 years ago. In his memoirs, Jean Monnet noted 
that  Europe  would  be  built  through  crises.  Indeed,  it 
is by solving those crises that Europeans have realized 
how  closely  integrated  their  interests  are  and  how 
interdependent  their  economies.  Today,  the  world  has 
learned  how  essential  a  viable  Europe  is  to  tackling 
global  economic  and  security  challenges,  and  how 
important the euro area is to the recovery of the global 
economy. Today it is clear that “more Europe” is in the 
general interest, and not just that of Europeans.
We cannot overlook the importance of the measures 
being taken at the EU level to strengthen governance and 
fiscal integration, as was underlined by President Van 
Rompuy. It is also essential that European Governments 
deliver  at  the  national  level.  Italy  will  continue  to  do 
its  part  to  further  strengthen  fiscal  sustainability  and 
enhance potential growth.
taking  place 
in 
Historic  changes  are 
the 
Mediterranean  region.  Italy  has  stood  by  the  Arab 
peoples in their quest for justice and democracy. In the 
past  months,  we  have  engaged  with  the  new  leaders 
of  those  nations.  I  found  in  them  a  deep  commitment 
that  inspires  hope.  Both  bilaterally  and  through  the 
European  Union,  we  are  lending  concrete  support  to 
their  new  Governments  to  assist  their  recovery,  set 
mutually  beneficial  trade  policies  and  foster  inclusive 
economic  development,  thereby  promoting  stability 
throughout the region.
There  is  also  an  element  of  self-interest  in  that 
pursuit.  Instability  around  the  Mediterranean  impacts 
our  own  security.  Conflicts  and  social  unrest  on  the 
southern shore spill over to our own shores. Terrorism 
finds  new  avenues  to  reach  Europe.  Trafficking  in 
human beings has destabilizing effects on the countries 
of destination and often results tragedies at sea, which 
we can no longer accept. The situation in the Sahel is of 
grave concern and a top priority for Italy. It is a volatile 
mix  of  fragile  institutions  and  rampant  organized 
crime and terrorist groups. We cannot let the situation 
deteriorate  any  further.  Italy,  for  one,  will  make  its 
12-52201
53
A/67/PV.9
contribution jointly with our partners and the States of 
the region.
The  ultimate  goals  of  peace  and  cooperation  will 
be  achieved  only  if  all  the  countries  concerned  work 
together  on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect  and  a  shared 
sense  of  purpose.  A  culture  of  dialogue  must  prevail 
over confrontation. Extremism and intolerance must be 
isolated and rejected. Rights, dignity and opportunities 
must be offered to every component and member of our 
societies, especially minorities and women.
Italy  is  fully  committed  to  implementing  such  a 
vision. For us, protecting and promoting human rights 
is  a  long-standing  domestic  commitment  as  well  as  a 
fundamental  pillar  of  our  foreign  policy.  In  that  vein, 
we  shall  continue  to  pursue  the  universal  abolition 
of  the  death  penalty,  the  protection  of  minorities,  the 
advancement of the status of women and the free and safe 
expression  of  religion  or  belief.  We  need  to  cooperate 
wisely  in  firmly  rejecting  the  misrepresentation  of 
religions or beliefs as an instrument of disruption and 
destabilization.
To  achieve  that  goal,  good  laws  are  always 
necessary,  but  they  are  not  always  enough.  Tolerance 
must  be  promoted  through  educational  programmes 
and  consistent  grass-roots  work,  engaging  the  efforts 
of  both  Governments  and  civil  society.  I  strongly 
encourage  the  membership  of  the  Assembly  and  all 
relevant 
resolutely 
pursue such an approach.
international  organizations 
to 
The Arab Spring has experienced difficulties, yet it 
has also scored a number of remarkable achievements. 
Nothing is easy, yet nothing is impossible. But nothing 
can be achieved without goodwill and good faith, which 
we  will  need  if  we  want  to  put  an  end  to  the  ongoing 
massacres  and  the  massive  human  rights  violations  in 
Syria. The regime in Damascus refuses to comply with 
the resolutions of the Security Council, and it continues 
to  commit  indiscriminate  violence  against  civilians. 
Italy fully supports the mission of the new Joint Special 
Representative for Syria and strongly urges the Security 
Council  to  overcome  the  stalemate  that  is  preventing 
effective  international  action.  History  will  not  be 
lenient in judging those who bear responsibilities.
Nor can we underestimate the increasing danger of 
nuclear proliferation. Italy supports the commitment of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  obtaining 
clarification  of  the  true  nature  of  the  Iranian  nuclear 
programme. We urge Iran to fully comply with all the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  Italy  advocates 
more effective arms control regimes, and looks forward 
to concrete nuclear disarmament measures as proposed 
in President Obama’s Prague appeal.
Respect for the rule of law is the basic condition for 
promoting human rights and maintaining international 
peace  and  security.  In  that  context,  Mr.  President,  I 
welcome your proposal of “Bringing about adjustment 
or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations 
by  peaceful  means”  as  the  overarching  theme  for  this 
session of the General Assembly. 
I  am  also  pleased  to  announce  that  Italy  is  now 
ready  to  accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  in  accordance  with 
Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Court’s  Statute.  This 
is  a  defining  moment  for  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  for  international  jurisdictions  in  general, 
since  they  are  the  key  institutions  for  interpreting 
international  law  and  guaranteeing  global  compliance 
with its provisions. More and more, effective actions to 
assure international order and security demand respect 
for international law. 
The  same  holds  true  for  actions  to  counter  new 
threats, such as piracy, which is particularly troubling 
given its impact on the world economy and on the lives 
of  seafarers.  International  efforts  to  protect  sea  lanes 
and  fight  piracy  can  be  effective  only  if  all  nations 
cooperate  in  good  faith,  according  to  the  established 
rules of international customary law and United Nations 
conventions, including those protecting the jurisdiction 
of the flag State in international waters.
The  Organization  can  expect  no  less  from  each 
Member State, and especially from those Members that 
aim to have a decisive influence on the rules of global 
governance. Any erosion of the sending State’s exclusive 
jurisdiction  over  servicemen  on  official  duty  would 
jeopardize  the  status  of  our  agents  on  international 
missions.  Consequently,  it  would  also  undermine  the 
sustainability of United Nations peacekeeping missions.
By the same token, we must not tolerate any breach 
of  diplomatic  missions,  whose  inviolability  must  be 
respected.  We  firmly  condemn  any  proposition  that 
violence is an acceptable response to speech.
Transnational  organized  crime  also  requires  a 
collective  response  grounded  in  the  rule  of  law  and 
the principle of shared responsibility. With the United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Italy has actively 
contributed  to,  and  co-financed  with  Colombia,  a 
54 
12-52201
digest  to  promote  the  implementation  of  the  Palermo 
Convention  by  illustrating  best  practices.  The  digest 
is  a  practical  tool  for  law  enforcement  officials  and 
prosecutors. It will be officially presented next month 
in Vienna, on the occasion of the sixth Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime.
The  United  Nations  is  called  upon  to  play  a  key 
role  in  conflict  prevention,  the  settlement  of  disputes 
and  providing  assistance  for  crisis  management 
and  nation-building,  in  cooperation  with  regional 
organizations.  Despite  the  current  financial  juncture, 
Italy  continues  to  do  its  part  in  crisis  management, 
and 
peacekeeping 
stabilization  missions.  Our 
expertise  and 
resources  —  both  military  and 
civilian — will remain engaged in a number of critical 
theatres,  especially  Afghanistan  and  Lebanon.  That 
commitment  constitutes  a  heavy  burden,  but  one  we 
deem a worthy investment for the sake of the common 
interest.
In that light, helping Somalia to recover its integrity 
and  dignity  will  remain  high  on  my  Government’s 
agenda.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
have  played  a  crucial  role  in  changing  development 
cooperation  policies  and  practices.  But  since  they 
were first agreed upon, the development landscape has 
changed  deeply.  New  challenges  have  emerged  and 
other issues and processes have come to the fore. The 
post-2015  development  agenda  will  therefore  have  to 
take  those  trends  into  account.  It  will  have  to  include 
such important dimensions of development as reducing 
inequality,  fostering  credible  democracy,  promoting 
human  rights,  good  governance,  equitable  growth, 
migration,  employment,  decent  jobs  and  tackling 
climate change.
We  are  very  pleased  with  your  decision, 
Mr.  President,  to  constitute  a  high-level  panel  to 
discuss  this  fundamental  issue,  and  to  appoint  three 
important  leaders  to  conduct  the  international  debate. 
We are confident that the process of defining the pillars 
of the future development agenda will be as inclusive as 
possible, while avoiding the top-down assumptions that 
emerged in 1995.
In  our  view,  the  post-2015  MDGs  will  have  to  be 
harmonized  with  the  inputs  that  emerged  from  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro  (Rio+20).  The  three  dimensions  of 
A/67/PV.9
sustainable  development  —  the  social,  economic  and 
environmental — will be part of the scenarios we face 
in  the  future.  We  will  also  have  to  work  within  the 
framework  of  the  new  Busan  Global  Partnership  for 
Effective Development Cooperation.
In the area of climate change, sound and balanced 
management  of  land  and  marine  resources,  involving 
strengthened  trans-boundary  cooperation,  deserves 
closer political attention and common application. Some 
challenges  are  particularly  pressing.  Tackling  climate 
change 
emissions-reduction 
policies is a prerequisite to substantially reducing, and 
possibly  stopping,  the  serious  degradation  of  planet 
Earth’s fragile ecosystems, on which our lives depend. 
coordinated 
through 
In line with our joint strategic objectives to overcome 
the  financial  crisis,  we  attach  great  importance  to 
innovative sources of financing for development. Italy 
has helped promote a number of significant initiatives, 
in particular in the health field. 
Migrant  remittances  play  a  key  role 
the 
development  of  many  countries.  That  process  will  be 
facilitated by achieving the commitments of the Group 
of Eight (G-8) and the Group of 20 to reduce the average 
global cost of transferring remittances.
in 
Food  security 
is  a  priority  for 
the  Italian 
Government’s development assistance policy. In 2009, 
under Italy’s presidency, the G-8 adopted the L’Aquila 
Food Security Initiative, a new and inclusive mechanism 
that has been joined by more than 40 countries and has 
funded several food security projects amounting to an 
estimated $22 billion. 
We  are  still  paying  careful  attention  to  policies 
aimed  at  mitigating  the  effect  of  agricultural  price 
volatility. The availability of high-quality, healthy and 
sustainable  food  for  all  humankind  is  the  historical 
and concrete challenge being taken up by Expo 2015 in 
Milan. The theme “Feeding the planet” is crucial to the 
global  agenda  —  from  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals to Rio+20 and its Zero Hunger initiative, as well 
as  the  G-8  and  G-20  processes  —  and  is  particularly 
relevant to the work of the United Nations system. All 
States Members of the United Nations have been invited, 
and  so  far  almost  100  countries  and  international 
organizations have confirmed their participation. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  respond  to  the  appeal 
you  launched  in  your  opening  address.  Yes,  Italy 
will  make  an  active  contribution  to  the  efforts  aimed 
at  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  by  enhancing 
12-52201
55
A/67/PV.9
its  role  and  efficiency.  Today  more  than  ever,  the 
world  needs  the  authority  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  a  key  element  of 
this agenda. We are very much counting on members’ 
assistance  in  making  it  happen.  An  effective  Security 
Council  is  crucial  not  only  to  meeting  the  challenges 
to  peace,  but  also  to  creating  a  better  international 
order.  An  equitable  reform  of  the  Council  is  a  matter 
of continuing legitimacy, rather than of increasing the 
national power of select Member States. The principles 
of accountability, consensus and regional empowerment 
must continue to inspire our commitment.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Council of Ministers 
of  the  Republic  of  Italy  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 
Mr.  Mario  Monti,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Julia Gillard, Prime Minister of 
the Commonwealth of Australia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Commonwealth  
of Australia.
Ms.  Julia  Gillard,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Commonwealth  of  Australia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Julia  Gillard,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Commonwealth  of  Australia,  and  inviting  her  to 
address the General Assembly.
Ms. Gillard (Australia): You now preside, Sir, over 
a forum for every voice — an Assembly of all people and 
nations, one for no country or bloc to dominate solely 
or  lead  as  one  alone,  where  small  and  medium-sized 
countries are truly heard. Australia warmly welcomes 
your election. 
The  story  of  the  United  Nations  is  truly  global, 
encompassing all the people of the world. It is a story of 
the progress of small and medium-sized countries, not 
just of great Powers. It is a story of reconstruction after 
world war and of the resettlement of massing millions, 
of  navigating  the  winds  of  change  and  of  the  end  of 
colonialism, bringing self-determination to the world’s 
great  majority,  the  billions  of  the  global  South.  It  is 
the story of harnessing new sources of wealth and new 
resources  through  a  revolution  of  rising  expectations 
and during decades of dictatorship, famine and war. It 
is  the  story  of  bringing  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of 
the  worst  international  crimes  and  of  preventing  the 
worst  human  atrocities.  Now,  extending  freedom  and 
harnessing new markets, it is the story of lifting billions 
more out of poverty and oppression. That has been the 
work of the United Nations for seven decades.
This  year  we  assemble  in  the  knowledge  born  of 
those years, neither expecting perfection nor accepting 
the status quo. We understanding that there is much that 
we can do together, and more that we can do together 
than we could ever do alone.
The  United  Nations  articulates  humankind’s 
highest ideals. Even more, it makes practical progress 
towards  realizing  those  ideals  in  the  world.  There 
is  no  better  example  of  that  than  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  —  specific,  measurable 
targets  of  the  highest  human  importance  that  are  now 
familiar  to  us  all.  Twelve  years  after  2000  and  three 
years  from  2015,  the  progress  we  have  made  must 
be  just  as  familiar.  The  global  economy  has  grown. 
Hundreds of millions of people have lifted themselves 
up. That first fundamental Goal, to halve the proportion 
of the world’s population living in extreme poverty, has 
now been achieved: 1 billion human lives transformed. 
A  decade  ago  100  million  children  did  not  get  to  go 
to school. That number has been reduced by fully one 
third, and 33 million human futures have been entirely 
remade.
invitation 
But  we  must  all  acknowledge  that  there  are  vital 
areas  where  the  international  community  is  failing  to 
achieve change. That is why I accepted the Secretary-
General’s 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  Advocacy  Group  alongside 
Rwanda:  to  advocate  for  practical  progress  in  the 
coming  three  years.  Where  the  world  has  fallen  short 
of  ambitious  goals,  our  response  must  be  action,  not 
disillusion. That is what Australia will do. We will act. 
to  co-chair 
We  will  help 
improve  education.  Australia’s 
development  spending  on  education  doubled  in  the 
past  five  years.  We  will  be  among  the  world’s  largest 
education donors in 2015. I am especially pleased to join 
as an education champion in support of the Secretary-
General’s Education First initiative to mobilize global 
support  to  help  achieve  education  for  all  children  by 
2015. I am honoured to lend it Australia’s support. 
56 
12-52201
We will help increase gender equality. I am proud 
to announce that at the Pacific Islands Forum Australia 
said  that  it  would  work  alongside  our  partners  in  the 
Pacific  on  an  unprecedented  gender  initiative:  Pacific 
Women  Shaping  Pacific  Development.  Australia  will 
provide $320 million over 10 years to support women’s 
political  participation,  to  expand  women’s  leadership 
and  to  spread  economic  and  social  opportunities  in 
the  Pacific.  That  is  a  principle  underpinning  every 
Australian aid intervention and initiative: empowering 
women and girls.
We  will  help  fight  drug-resistant  malaria.  The 
Secretary-General  has  made  malaria  one  of  his  key 
priorities for his second term. It is a priority we share. 
Since  2000,  the  world  has  cut  the  number  of  deaths 
from malaria by 26 per cent. Without those advances, 
330,000  more  people  would  have  died  of  malaria  last 
year, the great majority of them in Africa. But malaria 
itself is fighting back. New drug resistance in malaria 
must be overcome. Later this year, Australia will hold 
the  Malaria  2012  meeting,  bringing  together  political 
leaders, civil society and the private sector to accelerate 
efforts  to  control  and  eliminate  malaria  and  combat 
growing drug resistance.
While we are working hard to realize the MDGs in 
the next three years, Australia is looking further ahead. 
The year 2015 is a goal, but it is not a destination. Rather, 
it must be a new point of departure for much new work. 
Australia  pledges  to  contribute  to  the  important  work 
of  the  high-level  panel  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
Australia  brings  considerable  national  experience 
in  working  with  conflict-affected  States  and  least 
developed countries, especially in our own region. We 
will seek to apply what we have learned in our work since 
2000 to the world’s plans for beyond 2015. First, peace 
is an essential foundation to development, and building 
peace is vital to the progress of societies recovering from 
conflict.  Peacekeepers  today  must  be  peacebuilders, 
not  just  stopping  conflict  but  enabling  development. 
Secondly,  there  can  be  no  poverty  alleviation  without 
the creation of wealth and jobs. Growth alone is never 
sufficient;  but  to  achieve  development  in  the  interests 
of all people we must create jobs and wealth. Thirdly, 
we cannot make poverty history unless we also consign 
to history the argument that environmental protection 
and  human  development  are  conflicting  global  goals. 
Climate change threatens the security of the food supply 
A/67/PV.9
that  guarantees  development.  New,  clean  sources  of 
energy deliver a new source of economic growth.
Australia  is  one  of  the  world’s  most  successful 
multicultural  and  multi-faith  nations.  The  Australian 
experience  proves  a  deeply  important  fact.  There  is 
nothing natural or inevitable about violent conflict over 
religious  belief.  We  must  reaffirm  that  again  today. 
The denigration of religious beliefs is never acceptable. 
Australia  seeks  to  be  an  example  of  freedom  for  all 
faiths, and we support that in the wider world. However, 
our tolerance must never extend to tolerating religious 
hatred  and  incitement  to  violence.  Whether  such 
attitudes  lead  to  attacks  against  members  of  religious 
minorities or diplomats or to attacks against houses of 
worship or diplomatic missions, the perpetrators of all 
such  violence  must  be  brought  to  justice  and  all  such 
incitement  must  be  condemned.  Australia  condemns 
violence and we work for peace. 
We  proudly  do  our  full  part  in  the  work  of  the 
United Nations for peace and security. We stringently 
observe  Security  Council 
resolutions  aimed  at 
curtailing  weapons  proliferation  activities,  like  those 
of North Korea. We take the leading role in the United 
Nations  Integrated  Mission  in  Timor-Leste.  We  lead 
the  Regional  Assistance  Mission  to  Solomon  Islands, 
which operates with the United Nation’s endorsement. 
And  we  have  been  the  largest  non-NATO  contributor 
to the United Nations-mandated International Security 
Assistance  Force  in  Afghanistan.  Australia  will  bring 
that  record  of  service  to  the  international  community 
to  our  service  on  the  Security  Council,  should  we 
have the privilege to be elected by the United Nations 
membership  in  October.  There  and  beyond,  our  work 
and the work of every nation for peace must continue. 
As  we  meet,  the  Syrian  Government  is  turning 
the instruments of State power against the very people 
whom  State  power  ought  to  protect,  employing  heavy 
weapons  and  ground-attack  aircraft  against  civilians 
and  engaging  in  systematic  human  rights  abuses. 
Syria’s  neighbours  —  in  particular  Jordan,  Turkey, 
Lebanon and Iraq — are burdened by growing numbers 
of  refugees  and  are  delivering  vital  help  to  desperate 
people. 
The  United  Nations  has  done  important  work 
already.  Australia  is  doing  its  part  to  help  through 
humanitarian aid. We must do everything we can to end 
the suffering of the Syrian people and to rebuild Syrian 
society.  Those  who  are  committing  crimes  against 
12-52201
57
A/67/PV.9
humanity must be held accountable. The international 
community  must  unite  behind  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi, 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States for Syria. We urge the 
members  of  the  Security  Council  to  do  so  and  to  act 
decisively.
The  international  community  must  also  unite  in 
guarding against the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.  It  is  now  six  years  since  the  Security 
Council  first  expressed  concern  about  Iran’s  nuclear 
weapons programme. Iran still refuses to take the urgent 
steps  necessary  to  build  confidence  that  its  nuclear 
programme  is  exclusively  peaceful.  In  contravention 
of successive International Atomic Energy Agency and 
Security Council resolutions, Iran is moving closer to 
having the capacity to produce weapons-grade material. 
We  therefore  stand  with  the  world,  united  in 
sending  a  strong  signal,  through  Security  Council 
sanctions, that Iran must change its behaviour now. A 
nuclear-armed Iran would be a major threat to regional 
and global security, especially given the shocking and 
aggressive statements about Israel by Iran’s leadership. 
There  remains  the  opportunity  for  diplomacy,  backed 
up by robust sanctions, to persuade Iran to change its 
course. Iran must take this opportunity for change, and 
the nations of the Assembly must press it to do so. 
There must also be change in the Middle East peace 
process. Australia shares the frustration of the parties 
at the current impasse. 
We understand the strong desire of the Palestinian 
for  national  self-determination.  Australia 
people 
is  resolutely  committed  to  the  establishment  of  a 
Palestinian  State  that  is  both  independent  and  viable. 
That  is  why  we  provide  significant  support  to  the 
foundations  of  a  future  Palestinian  State  and  build  its 
infrastructure and economy. More than $300 million in 
aid has been provided for the period from 2011 to 2016. 
We  commend  the  genuine  progress  President  Abbas 
and  Prime  Minister  Fayyad  have  made  in  building 
the  institutions  and  infrastructure  for  statehood.  And 
no  one  can  doubt  Australia’s  close  and  continuing 
friendship  with  Israel.  Our  support  for  the  right  of 
Israel  and  its  people  to  exist  in  security  and  peace  is 
a historic commitment in Australian policy, and it will 
endure. 
We  urge  a  return  to  direct  negotiations  and  that 
those negotiations be between the two parties. That is 
the only durable basis for achieving a two-State solution. 
The  present  impasse  must  be  overcome.  Both  sides 
need  to  make  compromises  and  avoid  provocations.  It 
will take sacrifice on both sides to settle complex and 
difficult  issues  such  as  settlements,  borders,  security 
and  Jerusalem.  The  Israeli  and  Palestinian  people 
deserve no less.
Australia’s  ideals  in  the  world  are  those  of  the 
United  Nations,  and  Australians  know  the  practical 
value of the United Nations work. That is why Australia 
seeks to serve in all the work of the United Nations and 
on  the  Security  Council.  We  are  a  strong  democracy, 
welcoming  all  the  peoples,  languages  and  religions 
of  the  world.  We  are  a  country  of  the  Asia-Pacific,  a 
neighbour  to  developing  countries,  with  a  perspective 
of  both  the  North  and  South.  We  are  a  State  with  a 
decades-long tradition of capable and committed work 
in  the  United  Nations.  We  contributed  to  the  first 
United Nations peacekeeping force in 1947, and we lead 
contemporary peacebuilding in our own region.
We  support  the  development  of  new  norms  to 
enable  the  United  Nations  and  its  States  Members  to 
act to prevent atrocities and to make the perpetrators of 
the worst crimes accountable for them. We act as a first 
responder to humanitarian need, as a donor who stays 
the course and as a partner in rebuilding after conflict. 
Australia embraces the high ideals of the United Nations 
and takes a practical approach to achieving change. The 
work of the United Nations is a historic task in which 
Australia wholeheartedly joins.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth 
of Australia for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Julia  Gillard,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Commonwealth of Australia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
58 
12-52201
