United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
40th plenary meeting
Monday, 19 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.40
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
Agenda item 121
the Council of Europe
Draft resolution (A/67/L.14)
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/280)
(i)  Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Economic Community of Central 
African States
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
(j)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union
the Economic Cooperation Organization
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Asian-African Legal Consultative 
Organization
(c)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization
Draft resolution (A/67/L.12)
(e)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community
(f)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Collective Security Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/67/L.5)
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries
Draft resolution (A/67/L.13)
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Eurasian Economic Community
Draft resolution (A/67/L.9/Rev.1)
(l)  Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the International Organization of 
la Francophonie
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Latin American Economic System
Draft resolution (A/67/L.11)
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States
Draft resolution (A/67/L.10)
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons
Draft resolution (A/67/L.7)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-59543 (E)
*1259543*
A/67/PV.40
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States
(r)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
(s)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum
(t)  Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
Organization
Draft resolution (A/67/L.8)
resolution 55/285, of 7 September 2001, “A joint debate 
shall  be  held  on  the  cooperation  item,  during  which 
all or some aspects of cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations  may  be 
addressed”.
I have also been informed that a request has been 
made that sub-item (j) be taken up separately at a later 
date to be announced. May I take it that the Assembly 
agrees to take up that sub-item accordingly?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Tibor 
Tóth,  the  Executive  Secretary  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission  for 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  Organization,  to  present  the  report  of  the 
Preparatory Commission.
(u) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/67/L.15)
(v) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Southern African Development Community
(w) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Central European Initiative
Draft resolution (A/67/L.6)
The President: Before we proceed, I would like to 
consult  members  with  regard  to  our  consideration  of 
sub-item (h) of agenda item 121, entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe”. 
Members will recall that, pursuant to paragraph 7 of the 
annex  contained  in  resolution  55/285,  of  7  September 
2001, “A joint debate shall be held on the cooperation 
item, during which all or some aspects of cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations may be addressed”.
I have been informed that a request has been made 
that sub-item (h) be taken up separately at a later date 
to be announced. May I take it that the Assembly agrees 
to take up that sub-item accordingly?
It was so decided.
The President: Before we proceed, I would like to 
consult  members  with  regard  to  our  consideration  of 
sub-item (j) of agenda item 121, entitled “Cooperation 
between 
the  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization”.  Members  will  recall  that, 
pursuant  to  paragraph  7  of  the  annex  contained  in 
the  United  Nations  and 
for 
the 
fifteenth  year  since 
Mr.  Tóth 
(Preparatory  Commission 
the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization): 
This  year  marks 
the 
establishment  of  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization. 
As  the  Executive  Secretary  of  the  Commission,  I  am 
here today not to read out my prepared statement, which 
has been circulated, but rather to talk more freely about 
the past and what is ahead of us. I hope that members 
will not only listen but also hear what I will be saying.
In that respect, I am not just reporting on the period 
behind us but, from the bottom of my heart, I would like 
to  thank  the  183  States  members  of  our  organization, 
which  is  nearly  as  many  as  the  membership  of  the 
United  Nations.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  bodies 
and organizations of the United Nations, as well as the 
Secretary-General, for their historic support in the past 
and, hopefully, unwavering support in the future.
The Member States have not been just good-weather 
companions  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty.  They  have  shown  themselves  to  be  marathon 
runners in the course towards its implementation. From 
the  early  years,  when  President  Nehru  of  India  first 
spoke in 1954 of the goal of a comprehensive nuclear-
test-ban  agreement,  they  have  believed  in  silencing 
nuclear explosions and continue to do so. They believed 
in  the  cause  in  1958  when  there  was  a  three-year 
moratorium  that  provided  a  window  of  opportunity. 
Unfortunately, that was shattered in 1961 and 1962 by 
a  frenzy  of  nuclear  tests.  There  were  more  explosions 
in those 17 months than in the previous 17 years. It is 
not surprising that that frenzy of nuclear tests led to the 
2 
12-59543
Cuban missile crisis, which is a euphemism because it 
was, in fact, a new marathon of global security.
to  obligations  to  be  verified  and  equal  in  the  right  to 
verify those obligations.
A/67/PV.40
Member  States  upheld  their  belief  in  the  cause  of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  in  1962, 
when, on 28 October, the last day of the Cuban missile 
crisis,  it  was  acknowledged  that  such  a  treaty  was 
possible.  It  had  not  been  possible  for  eight  years  but 
that  day  it  became  possible  and  imperative.  Although 
we  had  hoped  for  more,  Member  States  supported  its 
start as a partial test-ban treaty.
Member States believed in the spirit of the Treaty in 
1968, when its essence was enshrined in the preamble 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.  From  1978  onward,  they  maintained  that 
belief for the nearly 20 years that the Treaty was being 
negotiated, before it became open for signature.
to  run 
Member  States  continued 
the  course 
following  the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  in  1966.  They 
persevered  and  prevailed  in  1998,  when  two  series 
of  nuclear  tests  were  carried  out,  and  again  in  1999, 
when  a  major  Power  failed  to  ratify  the  Treaty.  They 
continued  to  believe  in  the  Treaty  in  the  first  half 
of  2000,  when  the  organization  faced  financial  and 
political  challenges  and,  in  2006  and  2009,  when  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  carried  out 
unnecessary  testing  of  both  the  norm  and  the  system. 
Member States expressed their unshakeable faith, while 
proving  not  blind  to  the  challenges.  On  the  contrary, 
notwithstanding  the  challenges,  they  continued  to 
believe in the cause.
What  all 
that  perseverance  achieved 
is  now 
unfolding  in  front  of  us.  From  1945  onward,  each 
decade  witnessed  an  average  of  500  explosions.  The 
past  10  years  saw  only  two  tests,  which,  for  all  of 
us,  is  two  too  many.  However,  Member  States  jointly 
succeeded  in  putting  the  genie  of  nuclear  explosions 
back into the bottle. That genie used to have 2,000 ugly 
heads. It must not be let out and can be sealed in by the 
ratification  of  the  eight  annex  2  countries,  which  will 
bring the Treaty into force.
I  would  also  like  to  mention  that  Member  States 
have  turned  the  grand  design  into  reality.  First, 
they  established  the  no-test  norm.  They  created  a 
near-universal  membership  around 
that  norm,  a 
membership  that  is  more  than  the  mathematical  sum 
of  all  of  the  countries  belonging  to  the  arrangement. 
It  is  a  democracy  of  all,  with  all  equal  with  regard 
Member  States  also  turned  another  aspect  of  the 
grand  design  of  the  system  into  a  reality.  They  set  up 
a  monitoring  system  of  approximately  300  stations, 
creating what I call a round-the-globe system owing to 
its  size,  range  and  seamlessly  operating  technologies. 
They  have  invested  $1  billion  and  10,000  scientists  to 
operate the system and make it happen. It has become 
the  largest  and,  for  me  and  many  of  us,  the  greatest 
joint  venture  in  verification  and,  I  would  add,  even 
beyond  verification.  It  is  a  one-for-all  and  all-for-one 
verification.  Even  the  smallest  nation,  one  with  no 
army,  can  participate  in  the  debate,  as  was  the  case 
in  2009  with  Costa  Rica,  sitting  as  a  non-permanent 
member on the Security Council and contributing to the 
discussion of North Korea’s breach of the no-test norm.
The  system  that  members  established  has  also 
proved itself at tragic moments, such as the dark days 
of  tsunamis  and  earthquakes,  and  in  many  complex 
disasters, providing a return on investment to citizens. 
But the international community has created that norm 
and  that  system  to  be  used  —  to  be  used  to  delineate 
a  clear  line  between  what  is  peaceful  and  what  is  not 
peaceful,  to  be  used  as  a  benchmark  of  behaviour  in 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament,  to  be  used  as  a 
catalyst to generate deeper cuts in nuclear arsenals, to 
be used as a glue for the non-proliferation regime and 
for  confidence-  and  transparency-building  measures, 
subregionally,  regionally  or  globally,  and  for  the  so-
much-needed  insurance  policies  in  subregions  of  the 
Asia-Pacific or the Middle East. We know that that tool 
is  missing  from  the  security  toolbox.  We  need  more 
than a hammer in the toolbox.
The  lessons  of  the  Cuban  crisis  should  not  be 
forgotten  today,  50  years  later.  It  will  be  too  late  if 
we  discover  one  minute  —  or  more  precisely,  one 
second  —  before  midnight  on  the  doomsday  clock 
that  cooperative  security  is  fatally  missing  from  our 
toolbox.  Today,  for  nations  or  subregions,  no  seconds 
would be available to rectify that deficit. 
The international community has created innovative 
ways to overcome the gravity preventing us from moving 
towards  entry  into  force.  We  know  that  there  are  too 
many  tasks  and  too  few  hands.  To  overcome  that,  we 
have created an open source of growing universalization 
and  verification,  supported  by  mass  collaboration  in 
science and technology through scientific conferences 
12-59543
3
A/67/PV.40
and joint research and underpinned with unprecedented 
mass  education  —  mass,  open,  online-course 
education — whereby this year the organization enrolled 
four times more people than the size of the organization 
itself.  To  translate  that  into  United  Nations  numbers, 
that would mean educating half a million people a year.
I  am  sure  that,  15  years  after  the  creation  of  the 
Commission, the international community will pledge 
to  overcome  the  last  obstacles  impeding  entry  into 
force.  The  one  and  only  force  that  can  remove  those 
obstacles is statesmanship. Allow me to cite President 
Kennedy’s  words  from  his  1962  space  effort  speech: 
“We  choose  to  go  to  the  moon  in  this  decade,  and  do 
the other things, not because they are easy, but because 
they are hard.” Those words are as relevant to today as 
they  were  50  years  ago,  now  at  a  time  when  we  once 
again  must  overcome  through  statesmanship  what  is 
holding us back.
The President: I now give the floor to the Director-
General  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical  Weapons,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmet 
Üzümcü, to present the report of the Organization. 
Mr.  Üzümcü  (Organization  for  the  Prohibition 
of  Chemical  Weapons):  Please  accept,  Sir,  my 
congratulations  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. 
The  annual  report  of  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW)  on  its 
activities  and  programmes  and  on  the  implementation 
of  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  (CWC)  in  2010 
and the draft report for 2011 have been circulated (see 
A/67/209). I will summarize the salient aspects of our 
work, which over the years has made the OPCW one of 
the most successful examples of multilateralism. I will 
also call attention to the need to sustain our collective 
efforts to ensure that the organization will adapt so as 
to deal effectively with future challenges.
Fifteen years ago a new chapter was opened in the 
history of disarmament. The first-ever treaty to establish 
a  complete  ban  on  an  entire  category  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  under  international  verification  had 
come  into  effect.  As  a  legal  document,  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  was  in  itself  a  remarkable 
achievement.  The  complex  machinery  and  mechanics 
of  verification  included  in  the  Convention  were  then 
transformed into an operational regime. With the hard 
work  of  scores  of  men  and  women,  supported  by  the 
political will consistently shown by States parties, we 
stand today poised to realize the vision of a world that 
is free from the threat of chemical weapons. 
the 
This  year  we  commemorated 
fifteenth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Convention. 
Among  the  various  events  organized  during  the  year, 
we  celebrated  that  landmark  here  in  New  York  last 
month,  at  the  OPCW  high-level  meeting.  A  large 
number  of  States  parties  participated,  in  testimony 
to  their  steadfast  commitment  to  the  goals  of  the 
Convention.  The  meeting  also  underscored  the  value 
that  the  international  community  attaches  to  the 
Chemical  Weapons  Convention  as  one  of  the  most 
successful multilateral instruments in disarmament and 
non-proliferation.
I would especially like to express my appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, for his support of the event. His participation 
symbolized the continued support of the United Nations 
for the Convention, and it added strength to our mission 
to rid the world permanently of the threat of chemical 
weapons.
The  theme  of  the  OPCW  high-level  meeting  was 
“Fifteen  years  of  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention: 
celebrating  success,  committing  to  the  future”.  It 
is  not  often  that  a  project  in  disarmament  elicits 
acknowledgments of unqualified success. The members 
of  the  international  community  represented  here  at 
the  top  world  body  deserve  full  appreciation  for  their 
unfailing support for the implementation of the CWC. 
Another  strong  symbol  of  that  support  is  the  annual 
consensus resolution adopted by the General Assembly.
As  a  result  of  our  collective  endeavours,  the 
aspiration to a world free of chemical weapons is today 
closer to realization. In total, nearly 70,000 metric tons 
of category 1 chemical weapons have been declared by 
the possessor States. Of that amount, as of 31 October, 
nearly  55,000  metric  tons,  or  78  per  cent,  had  been 
destroyed  under  strict  verification  by  the  Technical 
Secretariat of the OPCW.
Given  the  large  quantity  of  toxic  agents,  the  high 
costs and the human and environmental considerations 
involved,  in  certain  cases  the  destruction  of  chemical 
weapons stockpiles has proved to be very challenging. 
The  two  major  possessor  States  —  the  Russian 
Federation  and  the  United  States  —  continue  to 
make  progress  towards  completing  the  destruction  of 
their  respective  stockpiles.  Libya,  which  stopped  the 
destruction  of  its  chemical  weapon  stocks  in  2011,  is 
4 
12-59543
likely to resume it in 2013. Those States, however, were 
not able to meet the final deadline for the destruction of 
their chemical weapons. 
During  the  sixteenth  session  of  the  Conference  of 
States  Parties,  held  last  year,  States  parties  agreed  on 
a  constructive  and  forward-looking  solution  to  enable 
them  to  continue  their  destruction  activities  under 
conditions  of  increased  transparency  and  enhanced 
reporting. In taking that decision, the Conference took 
into  account  the  steadfast  commitment  those  States 
parties had shown towards the complete destruction of 
their declared stockpiles. I have no doubt that they will 
also  fully  respect  the  spirit  of  that  decision  and  will 
steadily move to complete the task in the shortest time 
possible.
the 
The  destruction  of  chemical  weapons  abandoned 
by  Japan  on 
territory  of  China  continued 
throughout  the  year.  Both  China  and  Japan  reported 
that  the  mobile  destruction  facility  in  Nanjing  had 
completed the destruction of over 35,000 items. China 
and  Japan  continue  to  work  together  to  facilitate  the 
redeployment  of  the  mobile  destruction  facility  from 
Nanjing to Wuhan and are preparing for test operations 
in  Shijiazhuang.  Preparations  are  also  ongoing  for 
the  start  of  the  excavation  and  recovery  operations  in 
Haerbaling.
Our verification efforts related to the prevention of 
the re-emergence of chemical weapons are continuing 
uninterrupted.  We  have  completed  more  than  2,300 
industry inspections, and we aim to gradually increase 
the focus, the intensity and the quality of our efforts in 
that area.
Over 98 per cent of the world’s chemical industry 
is  located  on  the  territory  of  States  parties  to  the 
Convention.  We  recognize  and  applaud  the  support 
of  the  world’s  chemical  industry  for  the  objectives  of 
the Convention. Such support boosts the Convention’s 
confidence-building function.
The  negotiators  of 
the  Chemical  Weapons 
Convention provided States parties with a four-pillared 
foundation. Beyond the two pillars of disarmament and 
non-proliferation, States parties joining the Convention 
agree  to  provide  one  another  with  assistance  and 
protection against chemical weapons and are committed 
to promoting the peaceful uses of chemistry under the 
umbrella of international cooperation activities. 
A/67/PV.40
Between  the  Convention’s  entry  into  force  and 
the  end  of  2011,  there  were  3,800  beneficiaries  of 
the  OPCW’s  international  cooperation  programmes. 
In  the  area  of  assistance  and  protection  against 
chemical  weapons,  the  OPCW  Technical  Secretariat 
organizes  courses  and  workshops  to  provide  training 
to Government experts and emergency response units. 
The  purpose  of  such  programmes  is  to  build  and 
develop national and regional capacities and emergency 
response  systems  against  the  use,  or  threat  of  use,  of 
chemical  weapons.  More  than  2,200  participants  have 
so far benefited from those programmes.
While those are achievements for which our States 
parties  can  rightly  take  credit,  we  must  also  remain 
cognizant  of  the  challenges  that  lie  ahead.  They  are 
organizational  as  well  as  strategic.  Thus  far,  a  major 
part  of  our  resources  has  been  dedicated  to  verifying 
the  destruction  of  chemical  weapons.  The  significant 
progress  already  registered  in  that  area  implies  a 
progressive phasing out of that activity. That will impact 
our  human  resource  requirements  and  force  internal 
changes  in  the  Secretariat.  The  task  ahead  of  us  is  to 
ensure that we are operationally effective and that our 
ability to respond to contingencies is unaffected. Such 
contingencies  include  the  responsibility  to  conduct 
challenge inspections at short notice and investigations 
of alleged use of chemical weapons when required.
An  overarching  objective  for  all  States  parties  is 
to ensure that the Convention will remain relevant and 
effective in accomplishing all its goals, and responsive 
to  future  challenges.  The  Convention  was  negotiated 
nearly  two  decades  ago.  Since  then,  science  and 
technology  have  seen  major  advances.  It  is  therefore 
crucial  that  we  take  stock  of  the  current  state  of  the 
science  and  production  technologies  that  are  covered 
by the Convention and adapt our industry verification 
regime accordingly. The Scientific Advisory Board of 
the OPCW is mandated to assess relevant scientific and 
technological  developments  and  advise  the  Director-
General  on  those  subjects.  I  am  confident  that  it  will 
play  its  part  in  creating  the  necessary  bridge  between 
science and policy.
Our  industry  verification  regime,  together  with 
data-monitoring  of  trade  in  relevant  chemicals,  is 
the  backbone  of  the  Convention’s  non-proliferation 
objectives.  Reinforcing  the  regime  is  necessary  to 
maintain confidence in the Convention’s effectiveness 
against 
re-emergence  of  chemical  weapons. 
Continually  refining  our  industry  verification  efforts 
the 
12-59543
5
A/67/PV.40
and  making  them  more  intense,  with  a  focus  on 
facilities  most  relevant  to  the  object  and  purpose  of 
the  Convention,  remain  a  crucial  undertaking  for 
the  CWC  community.  Another  important  aspect  that 
requires us to remain focused on industry verification 
is  the  rapid  evolution  of  the  global  chemical  industry. 
Developments  that  must  be  carefully  followed  are 
increasing overlaps and possible convergence between 
the  chemical  and  biological  sciences,  the  integration 
of chemical engineering into the life sciences, and the 
fusion between them and information technology. New 
technologies, such as nanotechnology and the creation 
of  new  chemical  manufacturing  methodologies,  must 
be  kept  under  study  and  review,  for  therein  lies  the 
potential for abuse.
Together with industry verification, the monitoring 
of imports and exports of relevant chemicals forms an 
essential  plank  of  the  Convention’s  non-proliferation 
regime. The CWC requires States parties to control and 
report annually to the OPCW on all exports and imports 
of  scheduled  chemicals  above  certain  thresholds. 
In  certain  cases,  trade  is  restricted  to  States  that  are 
not  parties  to  the  Convention.  With  the  information 
received  from  States  parties,  the  OPCW  implements 
a  monitoring  regime  for  the  exports  and  imports  of 
scheduled chemicals around the world. Such monitoring 
is  an  important  aspect  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Convention  and  will  remain  crucial  in  coming  years. 
States parties are expected to reinforce their domestic 
rules  and  procedures  as  part  of  an  enhanced  CWC 
enforcement effort.
However,  industry  verification  and  trade  controls 
are not the only means of promoting non-proliferation. 
Deterrence against the possible acquisition, development 
and  misuse  of  toxic  chemicals  and  their  precursors 
needs  to  be  firmly  and  efficiently  established  within 
the domestic jurisdiction of Member States. They have 
to  ensure  that  the  prohibitions  under  the  Convention 
are  translated  into  domestic  rules  applicable  to  any 
individual  or  other  entities  operating  within  their 
jurisdiction or control. 
We  still  have  a  considerable  way  to  go  before  we 
reach the stage where all States parties will establish the 
necessary  tools  for  effective  domestic  implementation 
of the Convention’s prohibitions and provisions. What 
is noteworthy, however, is that the institutional support 
provided  by  the  OPCW  through  a  variety  of  support 
programmes  is  having  a  positive  impact  on  its  States 
parties. The role of the European Union and other donors 
in supporting various programmes designed to improve 
the  implementation  of  the  Convention  worldwide  has 
been crucial in that endeavour.
is  universality.  With  188  members, 
Another  issue  that  is  vital  to  the  CWC’s  ultimate 
success 
the 
Convention has come close to but not has yet attained 
full  universality.  A  few  days  ago  the  Secretary-
General  and  I  jointly  addressed  letters  to  the  heads 
of State or Government of the eight countries that are 
not  yet  parties  to  the  Convention.  We  have  stressed 
how  imperative  it  is  that  they  join  the  Convention  as 
part  of  the  internationally  endorsed  goal  of  creating 
a  chemical-weapon-free  world.  That  shared  goal  has 
motivated every other nation to accept the obligations 
enshrined  in  the  Convention.  Whether  they  are  States 
possessing  chemical  weapons  or  those  with  nothing 
to  declare,  all  have  expended  energy  and  precious 
resources 
to 
this  vision.  It  is  naturally  disconcerting  to  them  that 
there  remain  a  few  who  choose  not  to  participate  in 
this project, which is of great significance in terms of 
both security and the noble humanitarian impulse it is 
designed to serve.
in  demonstrating 
their  commitment 
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
It therefore seems natural that concerns should be 
raised  regarding  the  possible  continued  existence  of 
chemical  weapons  in  certain  parts  of  the  world  after 
the declared possessors have completely destroyed their 
known stockpiles. A recent declaration by a country in 
the  Middle  East  concerning  possession  of  chemical 
weapons  flew  in  face  of  the  universally  accepted 
international norm that regards any use or threat of use 
of chemical weapons as unacceptable.
In the Middle East, three countries are not members 
of  the  Convention.  In  accordance  with  an  important 
decision adopted by the 2010 Review Conference of the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a 
conference  on  establishing  a  zone  free  from  weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East was scheduled 
for this year. The OPCW has been asked to contribute 
to  that  process.  As  a  first  step,  we  have  provided  our 
written input to the facilitator of that effort. We remain 
prepared to contribute further as required. It is my hope 
that that endeavour will serve to focus attention on the 
issue  of  the  Convention’s  universality  in  that  delicate 
region.  We  will  also  continue  our  efforts  with  other 
remaining  non-members,  a  task  in  which  we  can  be 
6 
12-59543
considerably  helped  by  those  States  parties  that  enjoy 
friendly  and  cooperative  relations  in  the  regions  to 
which the remaining countries belong.
It  is  expected  that  in  five  years  99  per  cent  of  all 
declared  chemical  weapon  stockpiles  will  have  been 
destroyed.  That  fact,  together  with  the  challenges 
I  have  just  enumerated,  will  require  a  refocusing 
of  our  resources  and  efforts  in  order  to  ensure  that 
the  Convention  will  remain  a  bulwark  against  the 
re-emergence  of  chemical  weapons.  At  the  same 
time,  we  have  to  be  responsive  to  the  expectations  of 
States parties, which are cognizant of the new security 
environment  and  the  challenges  it  creates.  The  threat 
posed by non-State actors is a major concern. The OPCW 
enjoys  a  number  of  advantages  in  its  ability  to  offer 
assistance  to  States  parties  dealing  with  such  threats. 
The discipline of a comprehensive and well-functioning 
regime  against  chemical  weapons  is  accompanied  by 
knowledge and expertise that is either available with us 
or is accessible. Our work with States parties and their 
national authorities creates channels of communication 
and networks that can facilitate national efforts in the 
larger  context  of  anti-terrorism  efforts  or  the  specific 
one of chemical safety and security issues — an area in 
which the number of our programmes is progressively 
increasing.
Security in the face of the wider notion of a chemical 
threat is also an area where OPCW’s cooperation with 
the  United  Nations  manifests  itself  in  concrete  terms, 
including  our  support  for  United  Nations  efforts  to 
implement Security Council resolution 1540 (2004) and 
for the work of the Counter-Terrorism Implementation 
Task  Force,  to  name  just  two  important  areas.  The 
OPCW also recently concluded with the United Nations 
a  Supplementary  Arrangement  to  its  Relationship 
Agreement. The Arrangement establishes the necessary 
modalities  for  conducting  an  investigation  of  alleged 
use  of  chemical  weapons  in  a  State  not  party  to  the 
Convention, if requested by the Secretary-General.
The  third  Review  Conference  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention,  which  will  be  held  in  April  of 
next  year,  will  provide  the  OPCW  with  an  important 
opportunity  to  continue  to  refine  its  priorities,  goals 
and  objectives  and  to  chart  a  course  for  the  mid-  to 
long-term  future.  Given  the  transition  that  awaits 
the  organization,  the  Review  Conference  obviously 
assumes critical importance.
A/67/PV.40
I  am  confident  that  the  General  Assembly,  where 
most  OPCW  States  parties  are  represented,  will 
continue  to  extend  its  full  support  to  our  continuing 
efforts  to  ensure  that  the  Convention  will  forever 
remain a solid barrier against the re-emergence or use 
of chemical weapons anywhere in the world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Kazakhstan  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.5.
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members of the Collective Security Treaty Organization 
(CSTO), namely, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic 
of  Belarus,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan.
The  CSTO  member  States  support  the  adoption 
of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.5,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Collective Security 
Treaty  Organization”.  Its  adoption  will  contribute  to 
further  strengthening  and  developing  cooperation 
between our two organizations for the benefit of peace 
and stability.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  basic 
multilateral  structure  for  promoting 
international 
relations  and  equitable  international  cooperation.  It 
has  the  universal  legitimacy  and  necessary  powers  to 
adequately  respond  to  the  diversity  of  contemporary 
challenges  and  threats.  An  integral  feature  of  the 
current  evolving  stage  of  international  relations  is 
the  growing  influence  of  regional  organizations.  We 
are  convinced  that  in  the  modern  world  the  effective 
work of regional structures is an important component 
in  creating  a  new  global  architecture.  Affiliated 
associations  and  organizations,  including  the  CSTO, 
make  a  significant  contribution  to  those  processes 
within the Commonwealth of Independent States.
The Collective Security Treaty Organization plays 
a fundamental role in ensuring peace and stability in the 
areas of its responsibilities. Having been established as 
a  political  and  legal  foundation  for  mutual  assistance 
to  address  external  aggression,  the  CSTO  for  the 
past  20  years  has  qualitatively  changed  and  become  a 
critical factor in the formation of the collective security 
system  in  Europe  and  Asia.  Today,  the  CSTO  is  a 
multifunctional structure with the potential to respond 
adequately to a wide range of threats and challenges in 
the modern world.
12-59543
7
A/67/PV.40
The  CSTO  makes  a  significant  contribution  to 
combating terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, organized 
crime  and  irregular  migration,  including  with  a  view 
to  consolidating  security  and  stability  in  Central 
Asia.  Those  activities,  undertaken  within  the  CSTO 
framework  by  member  States,  are  in  accordance  with 
the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
satisfaction 
We  note  with 
the  progressive 
development of cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization.  In 
December  2004,  the  CSTO  was  granted  observer 
status  in  the  General  Assembly.  The  importance 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
CSTO  was  underscored  in  resolution  64/256,  adopted 
in  March  2010,  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the CSTO, and was again expressed in the 
signing of the joint declaration on cooperation between 
our organizations.
In  2011  there  was  a  systematic  series  of  meetings 
between  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations 
and the Secretary-General of the CSTO. The close joint 
efforts of the CSTO with the United Nations Regional 
Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy,  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  point  to  further 
mutual support and progress. The CSTO has also been 
involved  in  implementing  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
The signing of the memorandum of understanding 
between  the  CSTO  secretariat  and  the  United  Nations 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, in September 
2010,  is  another  major  contribution  to  increasing 
solidarity between the United Nations and the Collective 
Security Treaty Organization. That document provides 
an  opportunity  for  practical  cooperation  in  promoting 
peace.
to  all 
We  are  grateful 
the  Member  States 
that  participated  in  drafting  and  supporting  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.5.  Adopting  it  by  consensus  will 
provide  an  important  impetus  to  further  enhancing 
the  comprehensive  cooperation  between 
two 
Organizations.
the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Ukraine to introduce draft resolution 
A/67/L.6.
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Ukraine):  On  behalf  of  my 
colleagues, the representatives of the 18 member States 
of the Central European Initiative (CEI), and on behalf 
of  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  —  Albania,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Italy,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and 
Montenegro  —  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.6, entitled “Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Central European Initiative”.
I  would  like  to  thank  representatives  for  their 
input  and  to  welcome  the personal  contribution  of  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  Central  European  Initiative, 
Ambassador Gerhard Pfanzelter, as well as the Central 
European  Initiative  secretariat  for 
their  valuable 
assistance in the drafting of this document.
The  year  2012  coincides  with  the  Ukrainian 
presidency  of  the  Central  European  Initiative.  We 
consider  the  draft  resolution  to  be  a  further  step 
after  our  organization  was  granted  observer  status  by 
resolution 66/111, of 9 December 2011.
Ukraine  and  the  CEI  member  States  attach  high 
importance  to  promoting  regional  cooperation  within 
the  framework  of  the  CEI  and  in  all  the  fields  of  its 
operations,  and  we  underline  its  importance  for 
cooperation  with  the  greater  Baltic,  Danube,  Adriatic 
and  Black  Sea  regions.  The  rationale  behind  the 
provisions of the draft resolution is that CEI endeavours 
to cooperate with all major international organizations 
and institutions. At present, we have working ties with 
more than 15 international and regional organizations.
Initiative 
acknowledges 
The Initiative cooperates with the United Nations, 
its  special  entities  and  other  relevant  international 
organizations.  The 
its 
commitment  in  contributing  to  a  wide  spectrum  of 
United Nations specialized programmes and initiatives, 
as well as the attainment of the Millennium Development 
Goals  at  the  regional  and  global  levels.  The  Initiative 
intends  to  maintain  its  current  momentum  and  to 
intensify  further  its  communication  and  collaborative 
action  with  the  United  Nations  on  issues  of  common 
interest.
On behalf of the CEI member States, I would like 
to  convey  to  the  General  Assembly  our  joint  plea  to 
support  by  consensus  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  the 
draft  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Central European Initiative.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  the  Netherlands  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.7.
8 
12-59543
A/67/PV.40
Mr.  Dorhout  (Netherlands):  I  have  the  honour  to 
take  the  floor  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/67/L.7, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”.  The  Netherlands,  which  is  host  country 
to  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons (OPCW), does so on behalf of approximately 
32 sponsors. The aim of this biennial draft resolution is 
to  highlight  the  importance  of  continued  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the OPCW.
The  OPCW  contributes  to  international  peace 
and  security  by  verifying  the  destruction  of  chemical 
weapons stockpiles, works to prevent the re-emergence 
of chemical weapons through industry inspections, and 
promotes  the  peaceful  use  of  chemistry  for  activities 
not  prohibited  by  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention, 
through,  inter  alia,  international  cooperation  and 
assistance.
At  present,  188  States  are  party  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention,  and  thus  are  members  of  the 
OPCW. There is good hope that further steps towards 
universalization will be taken in the near future. This 
year,  the  OPCW  celebrated  its  fifteenth  anniversary, 
with both a commemoration in The Hague and a high-
level meeting here at the United Nations on 1 October. 
In April next year, the third Review Conference of the 
Chemical  Weapons  Convention  will  be  convened  in 
The  Hague.  The  draft  resolution  makes  reference  to 
those  events,  in  addition  to  taking  note  of  the  annual 
report of the Organization.
I  express  the  hope  that,  as  on  previous  occasions, 
the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Costa  Rica  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.8.
The  CTBT  has  promoted  a  significant  increase  in 
international peace and security by prohibiting nuclear 
testing  and  the  development  of  nuclear  weapons.  In 
the 15 years since the CTBT was opened for signature 
and  ratification,  183  States  have  signed  and  157  have 
ratified it. That degree of support can be considered a 
true success in comparison to the majority of treaties. 
However, the CTBT has still not entered into force, as 
eight  annex  2  States  have  not  yet  ratified  it.  We  hope 
that,  in  the  near  future,  the  international  community 
will  be  able  to  attain  the  much-desired  goal  of  its 
entry  into  force  and  that  the  Treaty’s  legally  binding 
provisions will become reality. We have a duty to make 
all necessary efforts to achieve that end. In that context, 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory Commission for the CTBTO is essential.
Disarmament  and  non-proliferation  are  essential 
priorities  of  Costa  Rica’s  foreign  policy.  We  therefore 
welcome the development of the near-operational CTBT 
verification regime. We would like to acknowledge the 
intensive  work  and  the  achievements  attained  by  the 
Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission and the leadership of Tibor Tóth, Executive 
Secretary for the past seven and a half years. Mr. Tóth 
will  be  stepping  down  in  July  next  year,  but  we  are 
certain  that  both  his  legacy  and  the  memory  of  his 
tireless  efforts  will be  upheld.  We  wish  every  success 
to his successor, Mr. Lassina Zerbo of Burkina Faso.
Costa Rica thanks delegations for their support in 
co-sponsoring the draft resolution. We hope it will be 
adopted by consensus as a clear sign of the commitment 
of the Member States to the CTBT and its objectives.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  the  Russian  Federation  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/67/L.9/Rev.1.
for 
for 
introduce  draft 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It 
is  an  honour  for  Costa  Rica,  as  current  Chair  of  the 
the  Comprehensive 
Preparatory  Commission 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), 
to 
resolution  A/67/L.8,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization“. The aim of the 
draft  resolution  is  to  ensure  that  this  important  item 
remains on the agenda of the General Assembly, given 
the  leading  role  that  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  verification  regime  has  played  in 
nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. 
Mr.  Churkin 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf 
of  the  States  members  of  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Community  —  the  Republic  of  Belarus,  the  Republic 
of  Kazakhstan,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan  and  the  Russian  Federation  —  to  introduce 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.9/Rev.1,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Eurasian Economic 
Community”.  The  draft  resolution  is  based  on  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  sixty-third  and  sixty-fifth 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  reflects  the 
progress  made  in  developing  integrative  processes 
within the Eurasian space. 
12-59543
9
A/67/PV.40
Since 1 July 2011, there has been a fully operational 
customs union for Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, and 
on  1  January  2012,  17  agreements  entered  into  force 
establishing  the  single  economic  space.  Its  main  task 
is to ensure the free movement of services, capital and 
the work force. 
On  1  February  2012,  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Commission  began  its  work  as  the  single  permanent 
regulatory body of the customs union and of the single 
economic space. The significant step was the adoption 
by  Russia,  Belarus  and  Kazakhstan,  on  18  November 
2011,  of 
the  Declaration  on  Eurasian  Economic 
Integration, a kind of road map for further integration 
and cooperation in the form of a customs union and a 
single  economic  space.  That  lays  down  the  long-term 
goals  for  Eurasian  economic  integration,  including 
the declaration on establishing the Eurasian Economic 
Union by 1 January 2015. 
Having gained status as an observer in the General 
Assembly in 2003, the Eurasian Economic Community 
cooperates  closely  with  the  United  Nations  system 
on  most  of  its  mandates  and  areas  of  activity.  In  that 
regard, the draft resolution notes the progress made by 
the Eurasian Economic Community in cooperating with 
the  Eurasian  Economic  Commission,  the  Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United 
Nations  Industrial  Development  Organization,  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency 
and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development. 
importance 
The  States  members  of  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Community  attach  great 
to  regional 
economic integration based on the rules and principles 
of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  and  support  further 
efforts to strengthen mutually beneficial and supportive 
cooperation with the United Nations in order to address 
key issues being dealt with by our community.
We  would  like  to  thank  all  delegations  that 
participated in the work on the draft resolution, and we 
invite Member States to co-sponsor it. We look forward 
to the adoption of the draft resolution by consensus. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Sudan to introduce draft resolution 
A/67/L.10.
Mr. Osman (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): As Chair of 
the  Group  of  Arab  States  for  the  month  of November, 
it is my honour to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.10, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States”,  on  behalf  of  the 
following  countries:  Algeria,  Bahrain,  the  Comoros, 
Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, 
Mauritania,  Morocco,  Oman,  Palestine,  Qatar,  the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the Sudan, Tunisia, 
the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.
the 
importance 
of 
The  draft  resolution  before  the  General  Assembly 
emphasizes 
strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  system  and 
its  specialized  agencies,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
League of Arab States, on the other, aimed at realizing 
the  shared  goals  and  objectives  of  both  organizations. 
Similarly,  the  draft  resolution  states  that  the  General 
Assembly welcomes the Security Council’s convening 
of a high-level meeting on 26 September (see S/PV.6841) 
that  emphasized  the  value  of  activities  consistent 
with  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter;  it  also  welcomes 
the  presidential  statement 
that 
the  Council  issued  on  that  occasion  in  support  of  the 
intention of the United Nations and the League of Arab 
States  to  strengthen  their  cooperation  across  a  broad 
agenda of multilateral concerns.
(S/PRST/2012/20) 
The  draft  resolution  also  contains  a  request  by 
the  Assembly  that  the  United  Nations  and  the  League 
of  Arab  States  review  their  existing  cooperation 
mechanisms  and  put  forward  recommendations  and 
proposals for the purpose of strengthening and updating 
those  mechanisms.  I  call  on  the  General  Assembly  to 
adopt  draft  resolution  A/67/L.10  without  a  vote  and 
unanimously.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Belize  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.11.
Mrs. Coye-Felson (Belize): Speaking for Belize in 
its capacity as Chair of the Latin American Council of 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Economic  System 
(SELA), I have the honour to introduce draft resolution 
A/67/L.11,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic System”.
I wish, first of all, to make an oral correction to the 
draft resolution. The reference in the second preambular 
paragraph  to  “the  Latin  American  Economic  System” 
should  read  “the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic  System”.  Since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  the  Bahamas,  Barbados,  Bolivia,  Brazil, 
10 
12-59543
Colombia, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  Georgia, 
Guatemala, Jamaica and Nicaragua have joined its list 
of sponsors.
and  appreciates  the  support  of  the  General  Assembly 
for the further intensification and strengthening of its 
relationship with the United Nations.
A/67/PV.40
The  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Economic 
System  enjoys  a  membership  of  28  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  countries,  and  provides  a  forum  for 
those  countries  to  consult  and  coordinate  with  a  view 
to  aligning  their  positions  and  strategies  on  economic 
issues in international bodies or with third countries, as 
well as to consult on cooperation and integration among 
the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
SELA has counted on cooperation with the United 
Nations as a means to deliver on its regional agenda. In 
that regard, SELA has benefited, since its inception in 
1975, from collaboration with multiple United Nations 
entities,  including  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP),  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD),  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean,  UNESCO  and,  recently,  the  International 
Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction.  Formalizing  the 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies 
has  enabled  SELA  and  its  member  States  to  create  a 
dynamic and productive cooperation framework.
reflects 
The  draft 
resolution  before  us 
the 
implementation  status  of  the  cooperation  agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  SELA  for  the  period 
2008 through 2012. The types of cooperation that have 
taken  place  between  SELA  and  the  United  Nations 
system  range  from  participation  by  representatives  of 
various United Nations entities as speakers or guests at 
SELA’s  meetings  and  assemblies  to  joint  sponsorship 
and development of regional programmes, including the 
UNDP-UNCTAD-SELA  Joint  Regional  Programme 
for Trade, Investment and Development Issues in Latin 
America and the Caribbean for the biennium 2010-2012.
Over the past four years, United Nations agencies 
have participated in 78 regional meetings organized by 
SELA  on  issues  such  as  health,  regional  integration, 
trade,  development  cooperation,  responses  to  natural 
disaster,  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  public-
private  partnerships,  cyberlegislation  and  information 
technologies. The most recent of those meetings, one on 
regional cooperation in the area of food security, which 
was held last month in Belize, included the participation 
of  the  FAO  together  with  the  Pérez-Guerrero  Trust 
Fund  of  the  Group  of  77.  SELA  looks  forward  to 
continued cooperation with the United Nations system 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  thanks  all  Member 
States  for  supporting  this  draft  resolution  so  as  to 
enable its adoption without a vote.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Turkey to introduce draft resolutions 
A/67/L.12 and A/67/L.13.
Mr. Eler (Turkey): Turkey would like to introduce 
two draft resolutions on regional cooperation, namely, 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.12,  entitled,  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation  Organization”,  and  draft 
resolution 
A/67/L.13,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Economic Cooperation Organization”. 
Turkey strongly believes that strengthening cooperation 
between the United Nations and those two organizations 
will 
regional 
challenges  and  achieving  sustainable  development, 
while enhancing peace, stability and security.
further  contribute 
to  addressing 
The Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization 
(BSEC)  was  launched  20  years  ago  as  a  regional 
initiative,  with  a  vision  of  promoting  peace,  stability, 
dialogue  and  prosperity  in  the  Black  Sea  region  by 
means of economic cooperation. It represents a region 
of 350 million people with a foreign trade capacity of 
more  than  $300  billion  annually.  The  greater  Black 
Sea area is the second-largest source of oil and natural 
gas  in  the  world  and  has  rich  proven  reserves  of 
minerals. There are ample opportunities for increasing 
cooperation  between  BSEC  and  the  United  Nations, 
notably in the main priority areas for Turkey, the current 
Chair, such as transport, sustainable energy, trade and 
investment, education, science and technology, as well 
as  in  combating  organized  crime,  terrorism,  illegal 
migration and trafficking in human beings, drugs and 
weapons.
The  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO) 
is  an  intergovernmental  organization  involving  seven 
Asian  and  three  Eurasian  nations.  Over  the  past  two 
decades, it has worked to accelerate the pace of regional 
development  by  using  existing  infrastructure  and 
business links. ECO aims to make full use of available 
resources in addressing institutional and infrastructure 
deficits  in  the  region.  ECO  member  States  pursue 
United Nations goals by, among other things, removing 
trade barriers, promoting intra-regional trade, making 
12-59543
11
A/67/PV.40
effective  use  of 
their  regional  agricultural  and 
industrial  potential,  and  cooperating  in  combating 
narcotics.  ECO  member  States  are  generally  pleased 
with  United  Nations  efforts  to  extend  technical  and 
financial  assistance  to  it  and  to  encourage  continued 
support for it in priority areas, including energy, trade, 
transportation and drug control.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  thank  the  sponsors  and 
other Member States for their constructive engagement 
and  cooperation  during  the  informal  consultations  on 
the  two  draft  resolutions.  We  hope  that  they  will  be 
adopted by consensus.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Kyrgyzstan  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.15.
Mr. Kydyrov (Kyrgyzstan): At the outset, I would 
like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations” 
(A/67/280),  which  gives  us  good  insights  into  recent 
developments  in  the  area  of  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  international  organizations, 
including the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
and  my  own 
On behalf of the sponsors representing the member 
States  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
(SCO) —  China,  Kazakhstan,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Tajikistan,  Uzbekistan 
country, 
Kyrgyzstan  —  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.15,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization”.  The  draft  resolution  is  based  on  the 
previous  General  Assembly  resolution  65/124,  but 
contains  several  new  elements  reflecting  the  recent 
activities of the organization as well as the development 
of its cooperation with the United Nations.
The  new  elements  in  the  preambular  part,  among 
others, highlight the following efforts and aspirations of 
the member States of the SCO: to build the SCO region 
into  a  region  of  lasting  peace,  friendship,  prosperity 
and harmony; to promote stability and security and to 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security;  to  support  the  building  of  a  world  free 
of  nuclear  weapons,  including  in  Central  Asia;  to 
promote  cooperation  in  counter-terrorism,  including 
through  the  Regional  Anti-Terrorist  Structure  of  the 
SCO; to continue to support the Afghan people in their 
construction  of  Afghanistan;  to  address  international 
information  security  and  to  promote  cooperation  with 
other regional organizations.
The new provisions also welcome the memorandum 
of  understanding  between  the  Secretariat  of  the  SCO 
and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
(UNODC),  which  seeks  to  effectively  address  the 
production,  trade  and  trafficking  of  drugs  originating 
in  Afghanistan  and 
the  protocol  on  cooperation 
between UNODC and the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist 
Structure. 
the 
implementation  of  the  2011-2016  Anti-Drug  Strategy 
and Action Plan of the SCO as an effective mechanism 
for regional cooperation in combating drugs.
importance  of 
the 
It 
recognizes 
The  updated  paragraph  1  of  the  draft  resolution 
acknowledges the important role of the SCO in securing 
peace and sustainable development, advancing regional 
cooperation  and  strengthening  good-neighbourliness 
and mutual trust and takes note of the relevant activities 
of the SCO.
The draft resolution is the result of several rounds 
of informal consultations conducted by Kyrgyzstan in 
its  capacity  as  the  current  Chair  of  the  organization. 
We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
delegations  for  their  active  participation  and  valuable 
contributions to the text.
In  conclusion,  let  me  express  the  sincere  hope  of 
the sponsors that the draft resolution will once again be 
adopted unanimously, as was the case of the resolutions 
of 2009 and 2010.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique) (spoke in Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP), whose member 
States are Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, 
Portugal, Sao Tomé and Principe, Timor-Leste and my 
own country, Mozambique. I wish to remind members of 
the General Assembly of the relevance of the Portuguese 
language in international affairs, unifying 240 million 
people  in  eight  countries  and  four  continents,  and  to 
highlight  CPLP’s  political  commitment  to  promote 
the  use  of  Portuguese  in  international  and  regional 
organizations,  including  the  United  Nations  and  its 
agencies, funds and programmes.
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
on the cooperation between the United Nations and the 
CPLP  (see  A/67/280),  reflecting  the  positive  effects 
of joint actions that have materialized over the course 
12 
12-59543
of  the  past  two  years.  Resolution  65/139  adopted  by 
the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  in  2010,  noted 
with appreciation that that dynamism also reflects the 
strengthened partnerships among the member States of 
the  Community  and  the  United  Nations,  including  its 
agencies.
The  United  Nations  system  continued  to  be  an 
important  partner,  actively  pursuing  its  cooperative 
ties  with  our  community  through  concerted  political 
and  diplomatic  actions.  Similarly,  that  cooperation  is 
expressly  visible  in  several  vital  areas  that  contribute 
greatly to the development of our countries, particularly 
in  the  sectors  of  health,  education,  agriculture,  public 
administration,  and  science  and  technology,  among 
others.
As  part  of 
its  political  coordination, 
the 
Community and its member States are deeply involved 
in  coordinating  efforts  with  the  United  Nations  and 
other international partners aimed at restoring respect 
for  human  rights,  democratic  institutions  and  the  rule 
of  law  in  Guinea-Bissau.  In  that  regard,  we  recall 
Security  Council  resolution  2048  (2012)  and  the  need 
to harmonize, under the auspices of the United Nations, 
the positions of the relevant regional and international 
partners  in  order  to  promote  Guinea-Bissau’s  return 
to  constitutional  order  through  an  inclusive  political 
process, to which the CPLP remains fully committed.
Bearing  in  mind  the  challenges  facing  the  world 
today  and  taking  into  consideration  the  guidelines 
established  by  the  United  Nations  with  regard  to 
poverty eradication and the achievement of sustainable 
development, the CPLP member States have undertaken 
important  initiatives  aimed  at  improving  the  lives 
of  their  citizens.  It  was  in  that  context  that  the  ninth 
Conference  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
CPLP,  which  was  held  in  Maputo  on  20  July  on  the 
theme “The CPLP and the challenges of food security 
and  nutrition,”  reaffirmed  the  commitment  of  the 
Community  to  the  implementation  of  the  human  right 
to adequate food.
Another 
important 
development  was 
the 
agreement  of  principles  for  the  establishment  of  the 
International  Centre  for  Research  in  Climate  Change 
for Portuguese-Speaking Countries and Africa, signed 
in  Bragança,  Portugal,  on  19  November  2010,  whose 
main objective is the promotion of applied research in 
environmental  geosciences  within  the  Community.  It 
was decided that the headquarters of the Centre would 
A/67/PV.40
be  in  Cape  Verde.  Those  are  very  important  actions 
in  which  CPLP  member  States  would  like  to  seek  the 
involvement of the United Nations system.
Allow  me  to  take  the  opportunity  to  mention 
that  the  CPLP  member  States  will,  in  the  near  future, 
submit to the current session a draft resolution on the 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
CPLP”,  for  which  we  humbly  ask  the  support  of  all 
States Members of the United Nations.
I would like to conclude my remarks by reiterating 
the  determination  of  the  CPLP  to  strengthen  its 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  in  the  pursuit  of 
common  objectives,  including  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  as  well  as  our 
commitment  to  continue  to  play  a  positive  role  in 
shaping the post-2015 development agenda of the United 
Nations  under  the  framework  reached  at  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. 
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the  honour 
of  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  members  of  the  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  (PIF)  and  to  join  others  in  thanking 
the  President  for  convening  today’s  debate  and  the 
Secretary-General for his report (A/67/280).
The two years since our last debate on this agenda 
item  have  been  significant  for  relations  between  the 
members  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  and  the  United 
Nations. In 2011, the Pacific Islands Forum celebrated 
its  fortieth  anniversary  at  its  annual  Forum  Leaders 
meeting in Auckland, New Zealand. Over the past four 
decades, the Forum has made a profound contribution 
to regional integration and cooperation and has helped 
develop  a  common  vision  and  coordinated  action 
towards  achieving  sustainable  development,  poverty 
alleviation and the maintenance of peace and security 
in the Pacific.
The United Nations has been an important partner 
in  those  endeavours,  and  it  is  fitting  that  the  fortieth 
anniversary meeting was also marked by a historic visit 
to  the  Forum  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations  –  the  first-ever  such  visit,  after  four  decades 
of  invitations.  Forum  Leaders  are  profoundly  grateful 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  making  the  long  journey 
to  our  region  and  equally  grateful  that  he  also  took 
the  time  to  also  visit  several  other  Forum  members, 
including  two  of  the  smallest  and  most  vulnerable 
members of our regional family. 
12-59543
13
A/67/PV.40
To those who have not experienced it at first hand, 
it  is  impossible  to  adequately  convey  the  reality  of 
the  challenges  of  size  and  isolation  and  the  profound 
vulnerability  faced  by  the  small  island  developing 
States in our region. Similarly, it is difficult to explain 
to  those  who  have  not  witnessed  it  the  grave  and 
imminent threat already posed by climate change to the 
livelihoods, the security and indeed the very existence 
of many Pacific communities. We thank the Secretary-
General  for  taking  the  time  to  bear  personal  witness 
to  those  realities  and  for  bringing  those  experiences 
back  to  New  York  and  to  the  broader  United  Nations 
membership.
The  Secretary-General’s  visit  was  also  the  setting 
for the first-ever joint statement between a Secretary-
General of the United Nations and Forum Leaders. That 
statement clearly set out key priorities for Forum States 
at  the  United  Nations,  identified  areas  for  enhanced 
cooperation and provided a framework for more regular 
and meaningful high-level engagement between Forum 
members and the United Nations.
In  September  of 
first 
this  year  we  witnessed 
another  historic 
for  United  Nations-PIF 
relations — the first-ever summit between PIF leaders 
and  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  in 
New York. That meeting also included participation by 
a  number  of  Under-Secretaries-General  and  the  heads 
of several United Nations agencies active in our region. 
It concluded with another joint statement, which set out 
in  even  greater  detail  areas  in  which  Forum  members 
would like to deepen our engagement with the United 
Nations.
Many of the issues identified in those discussions 
in 
terms  of  ensuring  effective  United  Nations 
engagement  in  our  region  will  be  familiar  to  small 
States everywhere, not least the challenge of ensuring 
an adequate and effective United Nations presence on 
the ground and of promoting coordinated action across 
the whole United Nations system in a way that is fully 
aligned with national and regional needs and priorities. 
Among the other issues identified in those discussions 
were  the  difficulties  that  small  States  face  in  trying 
to  meet  onerous  international  reporting  obligations 
and  the  importance  for  all  Member  States,  regardless 
of  size,  of  adequate  data  and  statistics  collection  as 
indicators to guide national development efforts.
In the coming months, we look forward to working 
with our United Nations system partners to take those 
discussions forward and to scheduling another meeting 
with  the  Secretary-General  to  review  progress  at  the 
earliest  opportunity.  The  challenges  faced  by  Pacific 
island  developing  States  are  severe,  but  significant 
strides  have  been  made  in  recent  years  in  ensuring 
that  a  Pacific  voice  is  heard  loud  and  clear  on  issues 
of vital importance to Forum members. In addition to 
our  cooperation  through  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum, 
many Forum members have worked through groupings 
such as Pacific small island developing States and the 
Alliance of Small Island States to ensure that our region, 
regarded by many as being at the edge of the world but 
by us as home, maintains a voice in global discussions 
that have a profound impact on our collective fate. We 
will ensure that the voice of the Pacific continues to be 
heard loud and clear.
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening today’s important debate on the cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations.  In  my  capacity  as  the  representative  of 
Ethiopia and speaking on behalf of the Intergovernmental 
Authority on Development (IGAD), I would also like to 
extend  my  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
informative report on this agenda item (A/67/280). 
In recent years, we have witnessed an encouraging 
development  in  the  increased  cooperation  between 
United Nations and regional organizations. Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union 
at  both  the  strategic  and  the  operational  levels  are  an 
important  part  of  that  emerging  trend.  We  are  indeed 
pleased  to  note  the  positive  evolution  in  the  relations 
between  the  United  Nations,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
the  African  Union  (AU)  and  African  subregional 
organizations, such as IGAD, on the other. 
the 
intention 
Ethiopia  welcomes 
to  consider 
further  steps  to  promote  closer  cooperation.  We 
note  with  appreciation  that,  in  the  last  few  years, 
significant  strides  have  been  made  in  joint  preventive 
diplomacy  and  peacemaking  activities.  That  welcome 
development  has  been  ongoing  since  2010,  when  the 
Joint  Task  Force  on  Peace  and  Security  was  launched 
by  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Chairperson  of  the 
African  Union  Commission.  Although  more  needs  to 
be done in all areas, particularly in Somalia, much has 
been  accomplished  through  cooperation  between  the 
two organizations in Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan 
and in other situations. 
14 
12-59543
It  is  clear,  for  instance,  that  the  AU  relies  deeply 
on  its  close  working  relationship  with  subregional 
organizations,  such  as  IGAD.  It  is  critical,  therefore, 
that, in the process of enhancing cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations,  close 
attention  be  paid  to  the  principle  of  subsidiarity  and 
the  flexible  application  of  the  underlying  principles 
governing the cooperation between the United Nations 
and regional organizations. That is critical, particularly 
in the area of the prevention and resolution of conflicts 
and in the area of mounting peace support missions.
We  are  indeed  pleased  with  the  much-improved 
dialogue  between  the  Peace  and  Security  Council  of 
the AU and the Security Council of the United Nations. 
The 
latest  developments  have  been  encouraging. 
However, for there to be a truly productive cooperation 
between the United Nations and the African Union and 
its subregional organizations, including with respect to 
the broader issues of development, it is critical that the 
United Nations Office to the African Union, which was 
established in 2010, be more effective. That Office has 
already proved that its creation has added value to the 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations,  but  much 
remains to be done in that area.
Let  me  conclude  by  underscoring  one  critical 
point  relating  to  where  Africa  is  at  present  in  its 
efforts  to  make  progress  in  eradicating  poverty,  one 
of  the  overarching  objectives  of  the  international 
community,  as  was  reiterated  yet  again  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development.  The 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  AU 
should  make  a  difference  in  that  regard,  particularly 
focusing on the least developed countries, the majority 
of  which  are  in  Africa.  Closer  cooperation  among  the 
United Nations, the AU and subregional organizations 
should be strengthened in those areas as well.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  54/5  of  8  October  1999,  I  now  call  on  the 
Secretary-General of the Organization of the Black Sea 
Economic Cooperation.
Mr.  Tvircun  (Organization  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation):  Allow  me  to  point  to  some 
of  the  important  developments  in  the  Organization  of 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) since the 
adoption of resolution 65/128 on 13 December 2010. The 
Organization  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
celebrated  its  twentieth  anniversary  in  June.  At  the 
twentieth  anniversary  summit  of  the  Organization 
A/67/PV.40
in  Istanbul,  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
the  member  States  of  the  Organization  adopted  a 
declaration reiterating their conviction that multilateral 
economic cooperation contributes to enhancing peace, 
stability  and  security  to  the  benefit  of  the  Black  Sea 
region. 
In  today’s  globalized  world,  BSEC  needs  to  be 
responsive to the challenges of the evolving international 
environment.  The  threats  and  challenges  differ  from 
those  of  the  past,  when  the  concept  of  security  meant 
the  prevention  of  conflict  and  war  between  States. 
Today  the  international  community  is  faced  with  new 
security threats and challenges, which not only threaten 
the  security  of  States  but  also  human  security,  and 
therefore they require urgent action. 
BSEC  is  viewed  by  the  international  community 
as  an  anchor  of  cooperation  in  the  Black  Sea  area.  In 
addition  to  12  member  States,  we  have  17  observers, 
16  sectoral  dialogue  partners  and  a  number  of  other 
partners  in  the  region  and  beyond.  Over  the  course 
of 20 years, BSEC has become the most inclusive and 
comprehensive organization in the wider Black Sea area 
and  a  forum  for  discussion  and  cooperation  in  a  wide 
range  of  areas.  Much  has  been  done  and  is  currently 
under way in those spheres. Agreements and common 
action  plans  on  key  issues  have  been  elaborated.  That 
fosters  a  spirit  of  dialogue  and  cooperation  in  our 
region. 
The  BSEC  summit  also  endorsed  the  new  Black 
Sea  Economic  Agenda  Towards  an  Enhanced  BSEC 
Partnership,  a  strategic  document  by  which  member 
States  reiterated  their  commitment  to  enhance  the 
economic  missions  of  BSEC  and  to  implement  the 
economic agenda, in accordance with their guidelines 
and priorities. 
BSEC has been a driving force in elaborating and 
realizing  giant  concrete  regional  projects,  particularly 
in  the  field  of  transport,  which  will  contribute  to  the 
development of Euro-Asian transport links. Within that 
framework, the memorandum of understanding for the 
coordination  and  development  of  the  Black  Sea  Ring 
Highway and the memorandum of understanding on the 
development of the Motorways of the Sea of the Black 
Sea region have been concluded, and they entered into 
force in late 2008. In addition, a project to facilitate the 
transport of raw materials in the Black Sea region was 
launched in 2010.
12-59543
15
A/67/PV.40
BSEC 
to  promoting 
is  committed 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  on 
fruitful 
cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies, in particular to the development of practical 
and  results-oriented  projects  in  areas  of  common 
interest.  It  continues  to  contribute  to  the  attainment 
of 
the 
national,  regional  and  global  levels  by  implementing 
sustainable development strategies based on a balanced 
and  harmonious  relationship  between  social  needs, 
economic  activities  and  environmental  protection, 
as  indicated  in  documents  adopted  at  various  United 
Nations  platforms,  such  as 
the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012.
and 
The 
continued 
Sea  Trade 
implementation 
Investment 
of 
the 
Black 
Promotion 
Programme  —  the  first  partnership  project  between 
BSEC and the United Nations Development Programme, 
launched  in  2006    —  represents  a  good  example  of 
concrete  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations. 
The fruitful cooperation between BSEC and the United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  is  the 
result  of  the  elaboration  and  adoption  in  2008  of  the 
BSEC  Regional  Action  Plan  for  Strengthening  the 
Criminal Justice Response to Trafficking in Persons in 
the Black Sea Region within the framework of the joint 
BSEC-UNODC project. 
BSEC became a member of the Group of Friends of 
the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations in 2009 in 
order to contribute to the fulfilment of the objectives of 
the  Alliance  by  promoting  projects  aimed  at  building 
bridges  among  diverse  cultures  and  communities  and 
fostering  cross-cultural  exchange  and  cooperation.  In 
the context of enhancing relations with the Alliance, we 
expect that the BSEC secretariat and the Alliance will 
sign  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on  cooperation 
in  the  near  future.  Their  established  partnership  and 
the  synergies  created  by  BSEC  and  other  regional 
organizations  represent  added  value  and  strength  to 
global cooperation, stability and prosperity. 
Last  but  not  least,  I  would  like  to  re-emphasize 
the importance of the intensified cooperation between 
the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization 
and  the  European  Union  and  to  pledge  our  readiness 
to  take  concrete  steps  for  the  development  of  a 
mutually  beneficial  partnership.  I  would  also  like  to 
invite  specialized  agencies  and  other  organizations 
and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system  to 
strengthen  cooperation  with  the  Organization  of  the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation in order to continue 
programmes  and  create  synergies  with  a  view  to 
preparing and implementing joint projects. 
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  pay  a  well-
deserved tribute to the Republic of Turkey for its efforts 
as Chair-in-Office of BSEC during the past six months 
and  for  preparing  the  draft  resolution  (A/67/L.12), 
which  I  hope  the  Assembly  will  adopt  by  consensus. 
I  also  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Black  Sea 
member States and other States Members of the United 
Nations that have supported the draft resolution.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 66/111 of 9 December 2011, I now call on the 
Secretary-General of the Central European Initiative.
Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Central  European  Initiative):  As 
Secretary-General  of  the  Central  European  Initiative 
(CEI), I am delighted to have this very special privilege 
of  addressing  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time 
on the topic of cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Central European Initiative. 
As  the  Assembly  knows,  the  Central  European 
Initiative  cherishes  its  relationship  with  the  United 
Nations,  and  we  are  proud  to  be  an  observer  in  the 
General  Assembly.  That  status  was  attained  last  year 
through  resolution  66/111,  of  9  December  2011.  We 
strongly believe that regional organizations need to be 
in tune with the global agenda, and we know that we all 
benefit from a close partnership with the United Nations. 
We are convinced that the successful work of regional 
organizations contributes to the overall success of the 
global  agenda  and  the  United  Nations.  This  was  also 
the  conclusion  of  the  first  global  meeting  of  regional 
organizations, organized by the World Economic Forum 
and  the  Government  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  in 
Dubai just a week ago, on 12 and 13 November. There 
was  a  strong  consensus  that  regional  organizations 
can  serve  as  powerful  catalysts  for  advancing  global 
cooperation and the global agenda.
The  Central  European  Initiative  is  the  oldest 
forum of intergovernmental cooperation in our region, 
established in November 1989 by Italy, Austria, Hungary 
and Yugoslavia. It has now become the largest regional 
initiative,  comprising  18  member  States  of  Central, 
Eastern  and  South-Eastern  Europe.  Our  membership 
includes  nine  European  Union  (EU)  and  nine  non-EU 
countries  and  therefore  puts  our  organization  in  a 
privileged  position  to  act  as  a  champion  of  regional 
cooperation  for  European  integration.  We  also  serve 
as a bridge between the Baltic, the Danube, the Black 
16 
12-59543
Sea  and  the  Adriatic.  It  goes  without  saying  that  we 
share the values of the European Union and the United 
Nations. 
Due to a unique blend of multilateral diplomacy and 
project orientation, we have become a unique player and 
partner in the region. The CEI designs and implements 
projects  in  partnership  with  the  European  Bank  for 
Reconstruction and Development, the European Union 
and  United  Nations  agencies  in  such  fields  as  energy, 
transport,  science  and  research,  regional  cooperation 
and culture. 
As the CEI develops those projects and programmes, 
it also seeks to strengthen its ties to the United Nations. 
Our  record  of  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
is  quite  impressive.  Our  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  over  the  past  years  has 
been  substantive  and  manifold.  For  example,  the  CEI 
cooperates with the Economic Commission for Europe 
in  the  area  of  enterprise  development,  particularly 
small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  and  with  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  in  the  area 
of  the  environment.  It  cooperates  with  the  United 
Nations  World  Tourism  Organization  and  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations, 
and  with  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Industrial  Development  Organization  in  the  area  of 
science and technology. 
But  the  CEI  also  has  close  ties  with  the  most 
important  European  organizations  and  institutions, 
such  as  the  European  Union,  the  European  Bank  for 
Reconstruction and Development, the Organization for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development,  the  Council 
of  Europe  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe. 
Last  but  not  least,  we  work  closely  with  all  major 
regional  organizations  and  forums  operating  within 
and beyond the Initiative’s region, such as the Adriatic 
and Ionian Initiative, the Organization of the Black Sea 
Economic  Cooperation  —  which  was  so  eloquently 
represented by the speaker preceding me — the Council 
of  the  Baltic  Sea  States,  the  Regional  Cooperation 
Council  and  the  South-East  European  Cooperation 
Process. 
We firmly believe that we should explore ways to 
enhance cooperation among regional organizations and 
in partnership with the United Nations. Our discussion 
today  represents  a  unique  opportunity  to  forge  a 
A/67/PV.40
strategic  partnership  between  regional  organizations 
and  the  United  Nations  in  pursuit  of  peace,  security, 
development and the rule of law. Therefore, the creation 
of  a  global  network  under  the  umbrella  of  the  United 
Nations might make sense. Such a global network would 
facilitate  exchanges  of  know-how  and  best  practices 
and would allow us to share experiences in projects and 
programmes in the various areas of activity. 
We  are  convinced  that  each  regional  organization 
has a comparative advantage to contribute to the global 
agenda, and I am also convinced that each one of us is 
contributing  to  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere 
gratitude  to  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Ukraine, Ambassador Yuriy Sergeyev, for all his efforts 
and  those  of  the  Ukrainian  Mission  to  promote  draft 
resolution A/67/L.6, which is before the Assembly. Our 
thanks  also  go,  of  course,  to  the  sponsors  and  to  all 
Member States that support this draft resolution.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 477 (V) of 1 November 1950, I now call on 
the Permanent Observer of the League of Arab States.
Mr.  Fathalla  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  have  the  honour,  in  my  capacity  as  the 
Permanent  Observer  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  to 
congratulate, on behalf of the League, Mr. Vuk Jeremić 
on  his  appointment  to  lead  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh session. He can count on the full support of the 
League of Arab States in his efforts. I would also like 
to welcome the Secretary-General’s efforts in guiding 
our  Organization  to  ensure  that  it  can  fully  discharge 
its responsibilities. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  devoting  an  entire 
chapter  —  that  is,  Chapter  VIII  —  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  to  regional  organizations  was  a 
significant  gesture,  and  one  that  has  proved  effective 
when  it  comes  to  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  organizations,  especially  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Arab  League  began  in  1950,  when  the  General 
Assembly,  at  its  fifth  session,  adopted  resolution  477 
(V) on 1 November of 1950, calling upon the Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations  to  ask  the  Secretary-
General of the League of Arab States to participate in the 
General Assembly sessions as an observer. Since then, 
12-59543
17
A/67/PV.40
relations between the two organizations have developed 
progressively and positively. Assembly resolution 36/24 
of 1981 reflects the progress that this cooperation has 
achieved  over  the  past  30  years.  The  Assembly  has 
reiterated the resolve of the United Nations to cooperate 
with  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  order  to  achieve 
the  desired  goals.  It  calls  on  the  Secretary-General 
to  continue  his  efforts  to  further  enhance  political, 
economic,  cultural  and  administrative  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League,  pursuant 
to the relevant Assembly resolutions. 
That  cooperation  was  enshrined  in  the  agreement 
signed  between  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the 
United Nations in 1989. Since then our cooperation has 
taken  a  variety  of  forms  through  various  mechanisms 
in  the  light  of  the  circumstances  that  we  have  faced. 
Our organizations now seek to cooperate on the basis of 
new developments and events in the Middle East since 
2010. 
A number of events have shaped the strengthening 
of  that  cooperation,  such  as  the  general  meeting  on 
cooperation  between  the  secretariats  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  their 
specialized  organizations,  held  in  Vienna  in  July  of 
this year, and the many biennial meetings held to build 
on  gains  and  to  assess  that  cooperation.  Twenty-eight 
organizations  and  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations, together with specialized Arab organizations, 
participated  in  that  meeting  in  order  to  identify  areas 
for Arab and international cooperation. The League of 
Arab States established contact with a number of focal 
points  and  held  a  number  of  coordination  meetings 
with specialized agencies and institutions of the United 
Nations. 
On  26  September,  on  the  sidelines  of  the  general 
debate of the General Assembly, the Security Council 
held a high-level meeting on the situation in the Middle 
East  (see  S/PV.6841).  At  its  conclusion,  a  presidential 
statement  reflecting  the  goal  of  enhanced  cooperation 
between  the  two  organizations  was  adopted.  The 
statement  recalls 
that  cooperation  with  regional 
organizations  in  order  to  ensure  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security could further enhance 
collective security. It establishes the following: 
“The Security Council recognizes and further 
encourages  the  efforts  by  the  League  of  Arab 
States  to  contribute  to  collective  endeavours  to 
settle  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East  peacefully  as 
well as to promoting international responses to the 
transformations experienced in the region...
“The  Security  Council  welcomes 
the 
intensifying  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  the 
wake  of  these  transformations  which  reflect  the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  all  peoples  in  the  region 
for  freedom,  political  participation  and  economic 
and  social  well-being  in  a  pluralistic  society.” 
(S/PRST/2012/20, p. 1)
The statement further establishes:
“The  Security  Council 
the 
importance  of  strengthening  cooperation  on 
capacity-building  with  the  League  of  Arab  States 
in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.
recognizes 
“The 
expresses 
Security  Council 
its 
determination  to  take  effective  steps  to  further 
enhance  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the League of Arab States, in accordance with 
Chapter VIII of the Charter.” (ibid., p. 3)
Despite the clear position of the United Nations on 
the  Palestinian  question  set  out  in  its  resolutions  and 
the positive statements of the Secretary-General, which 
recall  the  importance  of  the  principle  of  resolving 
the  Israel-Palestinian  conflict,  as  well  as  the  right  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination  and  to 
establish  their  State  on  the  basis  of  the  1967  borders, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  the  peace  process  has 
reached  a  stalemate.  A  comprehensive  settlement  that 
includes  all  stages  of  the  Middle  East  peace  process 
must  be  found.  That  stalemate  is  the  result  of  Israel’s 
insistence on continued actions to further colonize the 
occupied Palestinian territory and its active aggression 
of the past week against Gaza, further exacerbating the 
socioeconomic  and  environmental  situation  and  the 
destruction of properties and dwellings.
Although  the  Security  Council  convened  rapidly 
the day that the aggression began, to date we have seen 
no  measure  adopted  on  the  ground.  The  Council  has 
been  unable  to  adopt  any  resolution  or  presidential 
statement  that  reflects  its  earnest  resolve  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  which  is  its  primary 
responsibility. 
At  its  emergency  meeting  on  17  November,  the 
Council of Ministers of the Arab League was therefore 
compelled  to  condemn  the  Security  Council  for  its 
18 
12-59543
A/67/PV.40
failure  to  adopt  measures  to  put  an  end  to  Israel’s 
aggression  against  Gaza.  The  Council  of  Ministers 
called  on  the  Security  Council  to  fully  discharge  its 
responsibilities  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, as stipulated in the Charter, and to 
adopt the measures necessary to end Israel’s continued 
onslaught.  The  presidential  statement  adopted  at 
the  high-level  meeting  of  the  Security  Council  of 
26 September must be implemented.
We hope that the Council will act rapidly in order 
to  meet  Arab  demands  and  to  ensure  cooperation 
between our two organizations. The Palestinian people 
hope  to  see  concrete  measures  being  adopted  on  the 
ground to enable them to fully exercise their inalienable 
right  to  self-determination,  as  a  result  of  the  common 
responsibility of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States.
The Arab League has sought to cooperate with the 
United  Nations  in  order  to  try  to  resolve  the  Syrian 
crisis. The international community must also strive to 
put an end to the bloodshed and to launch a transitional 
phase  that  gives  rise  to  a  democratic  system,  in  line 
with the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people. A 
political solution to which all parties can commit must 
be  found  by  building  on  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Brahimi, 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States for Syria.
The  Security  Council  must  provide  a  positive 
response  to  the  decisions  taken  by  the  Ministers  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  the  European  Union  and  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States  through  the  adoption  of  the 
Cairo declaration at a meeting on 3 November.
The United Nations and the League of Arab States 
have agreed to continue their intensive efforts to support 
Yemen  in  the  transitional  phase  of  its  reconstruction. 
We  seek  to  promote  political,  socioeconomic  and 
legal reform in that country and to provide it with the 
necessary  technical  expertise  to  train  personnel  in 
various areas. 
The  League  of  Arab  States  is  following  the 
developments on the ground in Libya with great concern. 
In  that  connection,  the  international  community  must 
shoulder  its  responsibilities  in  a  positive  manner.  It 
must  work  effectively  with  the  Libyan  Government 
to  address  the  challenges  that  Libya  faces  by  fully 
supporting  the  Libyan  people  in  the  reconstruction 
process  and  by  providing  the  necessary  technical 
expertise to help train personnel and to build capacity 
in  all  areas.  Moreover,  there  must  be  further  support 
for  building  capacity  in  the  army  and  the  police  and 
for  efforts  to  ensure  disarmament  and  the  retrieval  of 
weapons throughout Libya. 
Given their geographical location and their ethnic 
and  social  composition,  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan 
are  of  particular  importance  in  the  Arab  and  African 
world  and  therefore  must  cooperate.  They  must  avoid 
conflict and must refrain from acts of aggression. The 
Arab world does not wish to see our Sudanese brothers 
fall  back  into  a  conflict  situation,  and  that  is  why  the 
United  Nations,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the 
African  Union  must  cooperate  in  order  to  help  them 
find  the  necessary  solutions  that  are  acceptable  to  all 
and to address all pending matters so that the country’s 
national interests are given top priority. 
The  League  of  Arab  States  has  proposed  and 
supported the humanitarian initiative in the Blue Nile 
and Southern Kordofan States, and the African Union 
and  United  Nations  have  followed  suit.  We  therefore 
call  for  further  cooperation  and  coordination  between 
those  three  organizations  in  order  to  implement  that 
initiative. 
The  cooperation  between  the  African  Union,  the 
United  Nations,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  IGAD 
has made it possible to conclude the transitional phase 
in  Somalia.  The  international  community  must  now 
provide  Somalia  with  all  forms  of  support,  whether 
political, financial or technical, in particular following 
the successful conclusion of the transitional phase. 
The current priority issues for the Arab world, and 
in particular for the League of Arab States, are common 
issues of concern to the League and the United Nations 
in the light of the current circumstances in our region, 
namely  the  global  financial  and  economic  crises,  the 
food crisis, the energy crisis and climate change. That 
is why the first Arab Economic and Social Development 
Summit, held in 2009, and the second Summit, held in 
2011, highlighted those goals. The same applies to the 
third Summit, to be held in 2013, which the Secretary-
General  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  is  currently 
preparing  for  by  calling  upon  the  United  Nations  to 
participate in it. 
Finally,  the  League  of  Arab  States  cooperates 
with  the  United  Nations  in  many  areas,  including  in 
combating  narcotics,  human  trafficking,  organized 
crime,  terrorism,  corruption  and  modernizing  our 
criminal  justice  systems.  We  would  like  to  deepen 
12-59543
19
A/67/PV.40
our  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  the  legal 
sphere in order to strengthen our coordination in those 
areas. We must further strengthen technical support to 
national efforts for the ratification of legal instruments 
pertaining  to  the  fight  against  terrorism,  corruption 
and  trafficking  in  persons,  and  strengthen  the  legal 
implementation  of  those  instruments.  The  necessary 
training must be provided in the area of criminal justice 
by enhancing the mechanisms for technical assistance.
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
the 
representative  of  the  Sudan,  who  introduced  draft 
resolution A/67/L.10 on the topic. We are very pleased 
with it, and we call upon the General Assembly to adopt 
it by consensus. 
like 
to 
thank 
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  35/2  of  13  October  1980,  I  now  give  the 
floor  to  the  observer  for  the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative Organization.
Mr.  Lee 
(Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization):  On  behalf  of  the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative  Organization  (AALCO),  I  am  very 
pleased to have this opportunity to report to the General 
Assembly  on  the  cooperative  activities  undertaken  by 
AALCO in the past two years. 
The Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization 
is  the  institutional  outcome  of  the  historic  Bandung 
Conference, held in 1955. It comprises 47 African and 
Asian members across the two continents. Its principal 
role is to serve as a catalyst to promote the development 
and application of international law. 
AALCO  has  been  a  permanent  observer  to  the 
United  Nations  since  1980,  when 
the  Assembly 
recognized  the  importance  of  AALCO’s  work  in  the 
field  of  the  development  of  the  law  of  the  sea.  Since 
its establishment in 1956, AALCO has been constantly 
working  towards  the  progressive  development  and 
codification of international law and the strengthening 
of the rule of law in international affairs. As an advisory 
body to the 47 member States, it ensures interregional 
cooperation  and  exchanges  of  information  and  views 
on  matters  of  common  concern  in  international  legal 
matters.  In  those  areas,  AALCO  closely  follows 
and  promotes  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
International  Law  Commission  (ILC),  the  United 
Nations  Commission  on  International  Trade  Law  and 
other relevant agencies. I would like to highlight a few 
topics and activities undertaken by AALCO in the past 
two years. 
First,  I  turn  to  the  work  of  the  International  Law 
Commission.  AALCO  analyses  the  work  of  the  ILC 
and  subsequently  forwards  the  views  of  the  member 
States  to  the  Commission.  That  has  helped  to  foster  a 
closer relationship between the two bodies. It has also 
become customary for both bodies to be represented at 
each  other’s  sessions.  At  its  fiftieth  session,  AALCO 
requested  its  Secretary-General  to  devote  more  time 
to  the  work  of  the  ILC,  and  an  intersessional  meeting 
was therefore held to discuss some of the topics being 
considered  by  the  ILC.  They  include  the  protection 
of  persons  in  the  event  of  disaster,  the  immunity  of 
State  officials  from  foreign  criminal  jurisdiction  and 
the proposed new topics of the ILC. Those topics were 
again considered at the Abuja session this year.
Alongside  the  legal  advice  meeting  in  October 
2011,  a  joint  meeting  of  AALCO  and  the  ILC  was 
held  to  discuss  some  of  the  topics  being  examined  by 
the  ILC,  which  included  the  expulsion  of  aliens,  the 
responsibilities  of  international  organizations  and  the 
protection  of  persons  in  the  event  of  disasters.  Many 
governmental  legal  advisers  from  outside  Africa  and 
Asia also attended the meeting.
Now I turn to the area of the law of the sea. The law of 
the sea constitutes an important part of AALCO’s work. 
Its contribution to the negotiations on and the drafting 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
is well-known. AALCO championed, for example, the 
concept of exclusive economic zones and helped to have 
that concept codified in the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea. In commemoration of the thirtieth 
anniversary of the signing of the Convention, AALCO 
organized  a  workshop  on  the  mapping  of  maritime 
baselines  by  satellite  or  other  means  in  May  2012.  In 
order  to  stimulate  innovative  thinking  on  combating 
piracy and to identify countermeasures against piracy, 
AALCO organized a meeting to discuss the adequacy 
of  international  legal  responses  to  piracy  in  the  Gulf 
of Guinea and off the West African coast. The United 
Nations  work  on  drug  control  was  also  considered  in 
that connection.
I  now  turn  to  the  issue  of  international  terrorism, 
which  has  been  considered  an  important  subject  in 
the programme of work of AALCO. We held a special 
meeting to discuss the subject, and the issues discussed 
included  the  difficulties  in  reaching  a  definition  of 
the  term  “terrorism”  and  an  emphasis  on  the  need  for 
international  legal  cooperation  in  criminal  matters 
to  combat  terrorism.  The  problem  of  countering 
20 
12-59543
the  financing  of  international  terrorism  was  also 
considered. 
I now turn to the issues of the trafficking in persons 
and  the  smuggling  of  migrants.  Those  are  important 
issues,  as  they  involve  serious  aspects  of  organized 
crime  that  affect  many  countries.  Human  trafficking 
affects national security and human rights and fosters 
illicit  transnational  migration.  Coordinated  efforts  to 
combat  that  menace  are  required.  Therefore,  in  2011, 
AALCO convened a meeting to consider the adequacy 
of the legal framework for combating human trafficking 
and the exploitation and abuse of migrants. The work of 
UNICEF in protecting children was also considered in 
that context.
Arbitration has in recent years become a preferred 
method of alternative dispute resolution in international 
commercial transactions in Asia and in Africa. AALCO 
has therefore established regional arbitration centres to 
facilitate  that  process.  A  meeting  was  held  to  discuss 
recent developments in the United Nations Commission 
on International Trade Law’s work in that area, as well 
as  the  revitalization  process  of  AALCO’s  regional 
arbitration  centres.  Participants  also  exchanged 
experiences  and  compared  difficulties  encountered  in 
that context.
to  consider 
in  July  2011 
International  criminal  jurisdiction  is  a  subject 
to  which  AALCO  attaches  high  importance.  Legal 
experts  convened 
the 
following  important  issues:  the  preconditions  for 
exercising  International  Criminal  Court  jurisdiction; 
the  interpretation  of  article  98  of  the  Rome  Statute 
in  relation  to  bilateral  immunity  agreements;  the 
principle  of  complementarity  and  its  application;  the 
criteria for the selection of situations and the opening 
of investigations; and, finally, the relationship between 
peace and justice.
AALCO  has  also  organized  training  programmes 
in international trade and humanitarian law. The main 
objective  of  the  training  programmes  has  been  to 
provide practical and theoretical knowledge on selected 
topics  of  international  trade  law  and  international 
humanitarian  law  through  interactive  discussion.  To 
facilitate  wider  dissemination  of  international  law, 
AALCO  publishes  both  a  yearbook  and  a  journal  of 
international law.
All  of 
the 
and 
programmes  are  intended  to  strengthen  AALCO’s 
relationship with the United Nations, particularly in the 
aforementioned 
activities 
A/67/PV.40
field  of  the  progressive  development  and  codification 
of international law. AALCO is determined to continue 
its  close  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  It  pays 
tribute to the work of the General Assembly and strongly 
supports the Assembly in all aspects of its work.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  121  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (w). 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/67/L.5, A/67/L.6, A/67/L.7, A/67/L.8, A/67/L.9/Rev.1, 
A/67/L.10,  A/67/L.11,  A/67/L.12,  A/67/L.13  and 
A/67/L.15. Explanations of vote after the voting will be 
made after the adoption of the draft resolutions.
Draft resolution A/67/L.5 is entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Collective Security 
Treaty Organization”.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/67/L.5?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.5  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/6).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.6 is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Central European Initiative”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following  delegations  have  also  become  sponsors  of 
A/67/L.6:  Austria,  Belarus,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Croatia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Georgia,  Hungary,  Italy, 
Montenegro,  Poland,  Romania,  Serbia,  Slovakia  and 
Slovenia.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.6?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.6  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/7).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  A/67/L.7 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
12-59543
21
A/67/PV.40
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  listed  in  document  A/67/L.7,  the 
following  delegations  have  also  become  sponsors  of 
A/67/L.7:  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Cambodia,  Canada,  Chile, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia, 
Lithuania,  Malta,  Mexico,  Montenegro,  Norway, 
Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Turkey and the United States of America.
Ireland, 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.7?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.7  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/8).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.8 is 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  listed  in  document  A/67/L.8,  the 
following  delegations  have  also  become  sponsors  of 
A/67/L.8:  Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Australia, 
Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Chile, 
Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Lesotho,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, the 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, the Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  the  United  States of 
America and Uruguay.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.8?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.8  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/9).
The  Acting  President:  Draft 
resolution 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  Eurasian  Economic 
A/67/L.9/Rev.1 
the  United  Nations  and 
Community”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
Armenia  has  become  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution 
A.67/L.9/Rev.1.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.9/Rev.1?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.9/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 67/10).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.10 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the League of Arab States”. May I take it that the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.10?
Draft resolution A/67/L.10 was adopted (resolution 
67/11 ).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.11, 
as orally corrected, is entitled “Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Latin American and Caribbean 
Economic System”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution and in 
addition to those delegations listed in the document and 
during  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  Haiti 
and Jamaica have become sponsors of draft resolution 
A.67/L.11.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.11, as orally corrected?
22 
12-59543
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.11,  as  orally  corrected, 
was adopted (resolution 67/12).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.12 
is entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
draft  resolution  A.67/L.12:  Armenia,  France,  Israel, 
Montenegro,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Serbia, 
Slovenia and Spain.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.12?
Draft resolution A/67/L.12 was adopted (resolution 
67/13).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.13 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Economic Cooperation Organization”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
Turkmenistan has become a sponsor of draft resolution 
A.67/L.13.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.13?
Draft resolution A/67/L.13 was adopted (resolution 
67/14).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.15 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization”.  May  I 
take it that the General Assembly decides to adopt draft 
resolution A/67/L.15?
Draft resolution A/67/L.15 was adopted (resolution 
67/15).
A/67/PV.40
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus):  With  regard  to  resolution 
67/14,  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization”,  which  has 
just  been  adopted,  my  delegation  wishes  to  state  for 
the record that Cyprus has disassociated itself from the 
consensus on that resolution for the following reasons.
First, in paragraph 2, the resolution takes note of the 
Baku Declaration, issued at the twelfth summit meeting 
of the heads of State and Government of member States 
of  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization,  held  on 
16 October 2012 in Azerbaijan. The Baku Declaration 
endorses  the  report  by  the  Council  of  Ministers  at  its 
twentieth meeting and instructs the Secretary General 
of  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  to  ensure 
the full implementation of that report. 
We have been informed that that report recommends 
that a so-called Turkish Cypriot State be given the status 
of observer to the Economic Cooperation Organization. 
The  Baku  Declaration  is,  in  effect,  calling  on  the 
Secretary  General  of  that  organization  to  act  against 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions 
regarding  Cyprus.  I  recall  in  that  connection,  in 
particular,  Security  Council  resolutions  541  (1983) 
and  550  (1984),  which  state  that  the  declaration  of  a 
purported secession of part of the Republic of Cyprus 
is  legally  invalid  and  call  for  its  withdrawal.  In  those 
resolutions,  the  Security  Council  condemned  all  such 
secessionist  acts  and  called  on  all  States  to  respect 
the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity 
of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  and  not  to  recognize  any 
Cypriot State other than the Republic of Cyprus. It also 
called on all States not to facilitate or in any way assist 
the secessionist entity.
I  also  recall  General  Assembly  resolutions  on 
Cyprus, specifically resolutions 3212 (XXIX), of 1974, 
and  37/253,  of  1983,  also  calling  upon  all  States  to 
respect  the  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial 
integrity of the Republic of Cyprus.
My  delegation  reiterates  those  calls  by  the  main 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  to  all  member  States 
of 
the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization.  We 
strongly  urge  them  and  the  Secretary  General  of 
the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  not  to  act 
12-59543
23
A/67/PV.40
against  United  Nations  resolutions  by  implementing 
the  recommendation  to  accord  observer  status  to  a 
secessionist entity.
We  have  decided  not  to  break  the  consensus  on 
that  cooperation  resolution,  based  on  the  good  faith 
and spirit of cooperation demonstrated by its sponsors 
during the informal negotiations on the text. We hope 
that that same spirit will be demonstrated in response 
to our call on ECO and its member States to re-evaluate 
their position on the issue we have raised and, in view 
of their cooperation with the United Nations, to act in 
compliance with its Charter.
Mr.  Cenzer  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  welcomes  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional organizations such as the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization.  We  also  support 
international  engagement  in  developing  consensus  on 
appropriate  cyberspace  behaviour,  based  on  existing 
principles  of  international  law.  States  must  unite 
around the common goal of preserving and enhancing 
the  benefits  of  information  technologies  by  ensuring 
their  security  and  integrity,  while  also  maintaining 
an  environment  that  promotes  efficiency,  innovation, 
economic prosperity, free trade and respect for human 
rights.  In  its  current  form,  resolution  67/15  does  not 
meet  those  criteria.  The  United  States  has  therefore 
dissociated itself from the consensus on that resolution.
Mr.  Genest  (Canada):  Canada  agreed  to  join  the 
consensus  on  the  resolution  on  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization  (resolution  67/15).  We  would,  however, 
like  to  reiterate  our  concerns  about  the  introduction 
of  contentious  language  into  what  is  supposed  to  be 
a  procedural  resolution  reaffirming  the  importance 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization.  We  regret  that 
development  and,  in  that  regard,  Canada  would  like 
to  formally  dissociate  itself  from  the  language  in  the 
sixteenth  preambular  paragraph  regarding  the  efforts 
of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  to  address 
international  information  security,  a  concept  that  we 
oppose and that does not belong in a General Assembly 
resolution of that nature.
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  who  wishes  to  speak 
in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  remind  him  that 
statements  made  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats. 
Mr.  Hallak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The League of Arab States has made itself part 
of  the  problem,  not  part  of  the  solution,  owing  to  its 
early  attempts  to  internationalize  the  Syrian  crisis  by 
calling  for  external  intervention  aimed  at  destroying 
Syria as a country and as a people. That is something 
that  runs  contrary  to  the  most  basic  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  flagrantly 
contravenes  the  obligations  of  Arab  countries  and  the 
Arab League secretariat to comply with the Arab Joint 
Defence Agreement.
The  League  of  Arab  States  has  not  respected  the 
conclusions  drawn  by  the  group  of  Arab  observers 
led  by  General  Al-Dabi,  and  withdrew  the  Arab 
observers  in  order  to  undermine  the  Arab  solution. 
The Arab League is not authorized either by the Syrian 
Government  or  by  the  Syrian  Arab  people  to  speak 
about the future of Syria on their behalf. It is shameful 
that the League continues to insist through its appeals 
to the so-called international community to guarantee 
peace,  security  and  stability  in  Syria,  at  a  time  when 
the efforts of the League — if there really is a League 
of Arab States — should be focused on mobilizing that 
same international community to protect the Palestinian 
people from Israeli aggression.
Since  the  emergency  meeting  of  Arab  foreign 
affairs  ministers  from  all  the  members  of  the  League 
of  Arab  States  two  days  ago,  the  Lebanese  Foreign 
Minister  has  called  for  a  halt  to  the  normalization  of 
relations with Israel and for the severing of diplomatic 
relations with that country. Of course, we have seen no 
implementation  of  that  call  on  the  part  of  those  Arab 
States that have relations with Israel. We have also not 
seen  the  representative  of  the  League  of  Arab  States 
here at the United Nations talk about the importance of 
implementing those two calls.
It seems that the League of Arab States is suffering 
from  colour  blindness;  it  can  no  longer  distinguish 
between  friends,  enemies  and  brothers.  From  this 
rostrum, we call on the League and its representatives to 
refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Syria, 
since  they  no  longer  consider  Syria  to  be  part  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  and  not  to  incite  the  so-called 
international  community  against  Syria’s  Government 
and people at a time when the international community 
should be focusing on dealing with Israel’s aggression 
against the Palestinian people.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
24 
12-59543
consideration of sub-items (d), (f), (j), (k), (m), (n), (o), 
(t), (u) and (w) of agenda item 121?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  appeal 
to  those  Member  States  intending  to  submit  draft 
resolutions on the remaining sub-items to do so as soon 
as possible
Agenda item 111
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/559)
The Acting President: In paragraph 7 of its report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary  Questions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning  on  1  January  2013:  Ms.  Jasminka  Dinić 
(Croatia),  Mr.  Conrod  Hunte  (Antigua  and  Barbuda), 
Mr.  Mohanad  Ali  Omran  (Iraq),  Mr.  Babou  Sene 
(Senegal) and Mr. Tesfa Alem Seyoum (Eritrea).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to appoint Ms. Jasminka Dinić, Mr. Conrod 
Hunte, Mr. Mohanad Ali Omran, Mr. Babou Sene and 
Mr.  Tesfa  Alem  Seyoum  as  members  of  the  Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2013?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/560)
The Acting President: In paragraph 4 of its report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term 
of  office  beginning  on  1  January  2013:  Mr.  Andrzej 
Abraszewski (Poland), Mr. Syed Yawar Ali (Pakistan), 
Mr.  Ihor  Humennyi  (Ukraine),  Ms.  Susan  McLurg 
(United States of America), Mr. Josiel Motumisi Tawana 
(South Africa) and Mr. Kazuo Watanabe (Japan).
A/67/PV.40
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint Mr. Andrzej Abraszewski, Mr. Syed Yawar 
Ali, Mr. Ihor Humennyi, Ms. Susan McLurg, Mr. Josiel 
Motumisi Tawana and Mr. Kazuo Watanabe as members 
of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a  three-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2013?
It was so decided.
(c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/561)
The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 
recommends  in  paragraph  5  of  the  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm  the  reappointment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  Ms.  Linah  Mohohlo  (Botswana) 
as a regular member of the Investments Committee for 
a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2013 
and confirm the reappointment of Mr. Emilio Cárdenas 
(Argentina) as a regular member of the Committee for 
a one-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2013.
the  reappointment  by 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  confirm 
the  Secretary-
General  of  Ms.  Linah  Mohohlo  as  a  regular  member 
of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a  three-year  term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2013 and to confirm 
the reappointment of Mr. Emilio Cárdenas as a regular 
member of the Committee for a one-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2013?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  the 
same  report,  the  Fifth  Committee  also  recommends 
that  the  General  Assembly  reappoint  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet 
(Switzerland)  and  appoint  Mr.  Gumersindo  Oliveros 
(Spain) and Ms. Cecilia Reyes (Philippines) as ad hoc 
members of the Investments Committee for a one-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2013.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
confirm  the  reappointment  of  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  as  well 
as  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Gumersindo  Oliveros  and 
Ms. Cecilia Reyes as ad hoc members of the Investments 
Committee for a one-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2013?
It was so decided.
12-59543
25
A/67/PV.40
(d) Appointment of members of the International 
Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/562)
The Acting President: In paragraph 4 of the report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  International  Civil  Service  Commission  for 
a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2013:  Mr.  Fatih  Bouayad-Agha  (Algeria);  Mr.  Sergei 
Garmonin (Russian Federation); Mr. Mohamed Mijarul 
Quayes (Bangladesh); Mr. Wang Xiaochu (China); and 
Mr. El Hassane Zahid (Morocco).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint Mr. Fatih Bouayad-Agha, Mr. Sergei Garmonin, 
Mr. Mohamed Mijarul Quayes, Mr. Wang Xiaochu and 
Mr. El Hassane Zahid as members of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2013?
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  as  members 
or  alternate  members  of  the  United  Nations  Staff 
Pension  Committee  for  a  four-year  term  of  office 
beginning  on  1  January  2013:  Mr.  Dmitry  Chumakov 
(Russian  Federation);  Ms.  Valeria  María  González 
Posse 
(Japan); 
Mr.  Gerhard  Küntzle  (Germany);  Mr.  Lovemore 
Mazemo  (Zimbabwe);  Mr.  Philip  Richard  Okanda 
Owade (Kenya); Mr. Mustafizur Rahman (Bangladesh); 
and Mr. Thomas Repasch, Jr. (United States of America).
(Argentina);  Mr.  Hitoshi  Kozaki 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Dmitry  Chumakov,  Ms.  Valeria  María 
González  Posse,  Mr.  Hitoshi  Kozaki,  Mr.  Gerhard 
Küntzle,  Mr.  Lovemore  Mazemo,  Mr.  Philip  Richard 
Okanda  Owade,  Mr.  Mustafizur  Rahman  and 
Mr.  Thomas  Repasch,  Jr.,  as  members  or  alternate 
members  of 
the  United  Nations  Staff  Pension 
Committee for a four-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2013?
It was so decided.
It was so decided.
(e)  Appointment of members and alternate 
members of the United Nations Staff 
Pension Committee
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-items (a) to (e) of agenda item 111?
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/563)
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
26 
12-59543
