United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
25th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 17 October 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.25
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda items 63 and 13
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/204)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/205)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The President: I am greatly honoured to address the 
Assembly this morning in support of strengthening the 
United  Nations  engagement  with  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  I  believe  that 
ensuring  Africa’s  development  should  be  a  strategic 
task  for  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  NEPAD  is 
an  excellent  platform  on  which  we  can  move  forward 
together, for it has established itself as a truly credible 
international  partner  in  providing  a  realistic  vision 
and  policy  framework  for  the  continent’s  renewal  and 
development  in  the  twenty-first  century.  As  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  fully  endorse  NEPAD’s 
work  as  an  African-owned  and  African-led  blueprint 
for the future.
In my previous capacity, I was privileged to travel 
to Africa on almost 40 different occasions for bilateral 
visits  or  to  attend  ministerial  meetings  and  summits 
of  the  African  Union.  For  me,  Africa  is  a  place  of 
enormous potential and endurance. It has shown great 
determination to overcome seemingly insurmountable 
obstacles, including centuries of exploitation unique in 
the annals of human history.
As  many  African  States  celebrate  five  decades 
of  their  independence,  allow  me  to  ref lect  back  for  a 
moment on the role the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) 
played in the continent’s quest to affirm its dignity on 
the world stage. Perhaps no foreign policy achievement 
in  my  nation’s  history  fills  me  with  as  much  pride 
as  the  role  that  we  played  in  NAM.  For  me,  its  1961 
inaugural  summit  in  Belgrade  represents  the  moment 
when  the  empowerment  of  the  majority  of  the  human 
race  became  irreversible.  At  its  birth,  the  Movement 
asserted the aim of establishing what the first Belgrade 
Declaration termed a “new order based on cooperation 
between  nations,  founded  on  freedom,  equality,  and 
social justice for the promotion of prosperity”.
I have cherished this legacy throughout my career 
thus far. As President of the General Assembly, I want to 
continue to build on this way of engaging with Africa, 
encouraging  African  solutions  to  African  challenges. 
The United Nations has become an important actor in 
the  efforts  to  achieve  the  full  political  and  economic 
potential  of  the  continent,  thanks  in  large  part  to  the 
hard  work  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
Adviser on Africa.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12 55213 (E)
*1255213*
A/67/PV.25
Somalia’s eight-year political transition came to an 
end with the election of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as 
President, opening a new phase of peacebuilding in the 
country. The Sudan and South Sudan are negotiating a 
series of agreements to fully normalize their relations. 
These  are  two  encouraging  trends,  and,  thankfully, 
there are many more.
Yet  the  grave  security  and  humanitarian  situation 
in  the  Sahel  remains  truly  alarming.  I  believe  it 
requires  our  urgent  attention.  The  United  Nations 
recently adopted a resilience action plan for the Sahel. 
Combining  short-,  medium-  and  long-term  goals,  it  is 
designed to enable the region to overcome a persistent 
pattern of recurring and increasingly acute crises.
One of the most dangerous of these is the threat of 
secession. In Mali, terrorists have taken over some of the 
country’s  northern  territories,  displacing  hundreds  of 
thousands and impacting the stability of neighbouring 
countries. We must strongly support Mali’s sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity,  as  well  as  that  of  every  other 
Member State. This includes the countries of the Great 
Lakes  region,  another  worrying  area.  With  all  due 
respect  to  existing  efforts  to  ameliorate  the  crisis,  I 
do not think that we are devoting enough resources to 
addressing  the  complex  challenges  facing  that  part  of 
the  world.  As  President,  I  will  work  with  all  relevant 
stakeholders to help generate the political will necessary 
for peace and security to fully take hold.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) must 
remain at the core of our shared vision for a prosperous, 
peaceful and equitable Africa. We hear predictions that 
a number of countries will not achieve the MDGs by the 
2015  deadline.  I  believe,  however,  that  by  redoubling 
our  efforts,  the  targets  can  still  be  largely  met.  I  look 
forward to hearing from African delegations on what the 
General Assembly can do to ensure expedited progress 
over  the  next  three  years.  One  of  the  most  important 
questions we face, in my view, is how to overcome the 
lack  of  fulfilment  of  monetary  commitments,  as  per 
resolution 66/293.
We  also  have  to  keep  looking  at  the  longer  term. 
That is why the General Assembly will need to focus on 
the post-2015 agenda, especially as it applies to Africa. 
This  body  has  been  mandated  to  implement  what  was 
agreed  by  world  leaders  in  June  in  Rio  de  Janeiro, 
Brazil. As President, I will push preparations for a high-
level forum, to be convened at beginning of the sixty-
eighth session. I will also engage with Member States 
on the establishment of a working group to define a list 
of sustainable development goals for consideration and 
adoption by the plenary.
African  concerns,  and  those  of  the  rest  of  the 
developing  world,  should  be  high  on  the  agenda, 
including  those  that  fall  within  NEPAD’s  six  areas 
of 
focus,  starting  with  youth  employment  and 
infrastructure expansion. I also wish to underscore the 
importance  of  ensuring  that  our  efforts  and  those  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  are 
mutually reinforcing and complementary.
Additional  resources  will  no  doubt  be  needed  in 
order to successfully implement the conclusions of the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(Rio+20).  I  will  prioritize  the  establishment  of  an 
intergovernmental process, under the framework of the 
General Assembly and in line with the mandate this body 
was given in Rio, to recommend options for an effective 
financing strategy. I believe that moving forward in the 
bold undertaking envisaged by the Rio+20 Conference 
not  only  complements  but  will  decisively  reinforce 
all  other  efforts  to  strengthen  international  peace  and 
security, especially in the African context.
A  number  of  African  countries  are  the  hardest-
hit  victims  of  the  global  economic  crisis.  Despite 
this  troubling  reality,  growth  rates  in  many  parts 
of  the  continent  have  been  resilient.  Over  the  past 
several  years,  trade  and  investment  have  expanded, 
the  continent-wide  internal  market  has  been  built 
up,  and  macroeconomic  indicators  have  improved. 
By  any  measure,  this  progress  is  unprecedented  and 
remarkable.
Yet  much  more  needs  to  be  done  in  a  number  of 
areas. That includes finding solutions on how to lessen 
the  difference  in  living  standards  between  urban  and 
rural populations and properly addressing the increasing 
disparities  among  the  continent’s  economies.  To  be 
even  more  effective,  I  believe  the  various  assistance 
mechanisms  should  more  closely  ref lect  NEPAD’s 
agenda  and  those  of  the  individual  African  Member 
States. The voices of those in need must be heard loud 
and  clear.  What  they  say  has  to  serve  as  a  significant 
guidepost for our way forward.
To  bridge  the  gap  between  the  promise  of  Africa 
and  the  reality  on  the  ground,  I  believe  the  United 
Nations must continue to give priority to the continent’s 
singular  needs.  The  United  Nations  agencies, 
programmes  and  entities  need  to  become  engaged,  as 
2 
12 55213
never before, in the task of supporting African nations 
to  unlock  their  full  potential.  In  my  view,  the  overall 
credibility  of  this  Organization  may  well  stand  or  fall 
depending  on  whether  it  can  help  fulfil  what  one  of 
the world’s greatest living statesmen, Nelson Mandela, 
once  defined  his  dream  as  an  Africa  that  is  at  peace 
with  itself,  the  dream  of  realizing  the  unity  whereby 
African  leaders  combine  in  their  efforts  to  solve,  for 
good, the problems of this continent.
Mr.  Asselborn  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
Mr. President — my dear friend Vuk Jeremić — allow me 
to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for the reports guiding our work today, and to welcome 
Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz,  Under-Secretary-General  and 
Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  to  whom  I  wish  every 
success in his new role.
important  elements 
for  Africa’s  Development 
in 
The  reports  before  us  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205) 
complement  each  other  well,  given  that  the  New 
(NEPAD) 
Partnership 
contains  some 
terms  of 
responding  to  the  question  of  promoting  sustainable 
peace  and  development  in  Africa.  Furthermore,  the 
improvement of public health, notably by combating the 
scourge of malaria, is a vital contribution in promoting 
the well-being of peoples and laying the foundation for 
sustainable development.
In that regard, it is particularly welcome that at the 
end of the last session, the General Assembly adopted 
by  consensus  resolution  66/293,  which  establishes  a 
monitoring  mechanism  to  review  commitments  made 
towards  Africa’s  development.  It  is  naturally  within 
the United Nations — by definition, the most inclusive 
and legitimate multilateral forum — that it is possible 
to  ensure  the  consistency  of  all  processes  deployed 
globally  and  multilaterally  in  favour  of  development, 
and  more  particularly  in  favour  of  Africa.  Among 
those  initiatives,  NEPAD  occupies  a  special  place,  in 
the  sense  that  it  presents  a  collective  African  vision 
of  development  and  of  the  integration  of  the  African 
continent into the world economy.
In  2011,  despite  the  global  crisis,  the  African 
continent distinguished itself as one of the regions with 
the  most  continuous  growth  rates  in  the  world;  and  
The  Economist    was  on  target  in  dedicating  a  special 
issue to the subject of “Africa rising” in December 2011. 
Indeed,  when  one  considers  the  future,  the  economic 
outlook  remains  optimistic  despite  important  regional 
disparities.
A/67/PV.25
Africa  is  the  world’s  youngest  continent  in  terms 
of  the  median  age  of  its  population,  which  is  growing 
rapidly  and  will  reach  2  billion  by  2050,  when  the 
majority  will  be  under  25  years  old.  That  situation  is 
certainly a major challenge, but it is also a tremendous 
opportunity.  Therefore, 
the  promotion  of  decent 
employment,  particularly  for  young  people,  must 
remain  a  key  element  of  the  strategies  implemented 
by  NEPAD.  This,  too,  is  why,  for  many  years  now, 
Luxembourg  has  placed  particular  stress  on  capacity-
building and vocational training for young people in its 
development  cooperation  programmes  for  the  African 
continent.
The report before us shows the significant progress 
achieved  by  African  Governments  in  the  sectoral 
application  of  NEPAD.  In  that  context,  I  would 
particularly note governance, where an ever-increasing 
number  of  countries  participate  in  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism.  In  parallel,  important  progress 
has been made in the area of infrastructure to promote 
regional  integration,  and  with  respect  to  information 
technologies.  Luxembourg 
and 
to 
actively  supports  African  Union  programmes 
improve 
linking  all  of 
the 
continent’s capitals and major population hubs, as well 
as initiatives promoting regional integration in Africa.
internet  connectivity 
communications 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  numerous  African 
countries  continue  to  make  progress  towards  the 
goal  of  allocating  10  per  cent  of  their  budget  to 
agriculture,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Maputo Declaration on Agriculture and Food Security. 
Those  significant  efforts  contribute  directly  to  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and 
notably  towards  achieving  Goal  1,  which  is  to  reduce 
the number of those suffering from hunger by half.
As  a  multilateral  instrument,  NEPAD  follows  a 
logic  based  on  the  principles  of  mutual  accountability 
and partnership, by underlining the commitments made 
both by development partners and by African countries.
I wish to underscore that the fight against poverty 
is  a  stated  priority  of  Luxembourg.  Since  the  year 
2000,  Luxembourg  has  reached  the  target  set  by  the 
United  Nations  by  dedicating  at  least  0.7  per  cent  of 
its gross national income (GNI) to official development 
assistance (ODA). In 2009 and 2010, our ODA surpassed 
the  threshold  of  1  per  cent  of  GNI.  The  Government 
of  Luxembourg 
that 
effort,  despite  budgetary  constraints.  Our  assistance 
is  benefiting  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  in 
is  determined 
to  maintain 
12 55213
3
A/67/PV.25
particular. Here again, we surpass the target set by the 
United Nations, by allocating more than 0.20 per cent of 
our GNI to LDCs, most of which — as is known — are 
in Africa.
The  report  on  the  causes  of  conf lict  and  the 
promotion  of  a  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development in Africa underlines that the continent has 
shown mixed results in the past year. A number of grave 
crises have marred an otherwise positive overall trend. 
By  taking  into  account  last  year’s  popular  movements 
in  North  Africa,  the  report  underscores  the  obligation 
to give renewed attention to models of governance and 
democratic  evolution,  as  well  as  to  the  necessity  of 
inclusive  economic  development  which  gives  priority 
to the creation of decent jobs.
Allow me to concentrate on one aspect in particular 
of the report of the Secretary-General, namely, exclusion. 
Exclusion  is  one  of  the  main  triggers  of  conf lict  and 
hinders sustainable development. Our Head of State said 
as  much  in  this  very  Hall  in  the  general  debate,  when 
he stated, “to ensure lasting peace, one must tackle the 
root  causes  of  conf licts”.  He  cited  among  those  root 
causes in particular “social inequalities resulting from 
persistent poverty”(A/67/PV.9, p. 11). Luxembourg fully 
subscribes  to  the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary-
General  encouraging  African  Governments,  with 
the  help  of  the  United  Nations  system,  to  survey  and 
implement  participatory  and  equitable  policies,  which 
reduce  inequalities  of  access  to  basic  social  services 
and  economic  opportunities,  in  particular  for  young 
people, women and other marginalized groups.
For  its  part,  Luxembourg  has  for  many  years 
been  supporting  initiatives  by  African  civil  society 
aimed  at  ensuring  effective  citizen  participation  by 
vulnerable  groups,  notably  women  and  young  people. 
Luxembourg’s  experience 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  further  strengthened  our  conviction 
that 
is  equally  relevant  for 
peacebuilding  efforts,  in  order  to  avoid  a  relapse  into 
violence.
the  recommendation 
in 
Luxembourg welcomes the efforts made in the fight 
against  malaria.  Our  objective  must  be  its  complete 
eradication  in  all  developing  countries,  especially  in 
Africa, by 2015, in conformity with resolution 66/289, 
adopted  by  the  Assembly  at  the  past  session,  with 
Luxembourg  as  one  of  the  sponsors.  Time  is  short. 
To  achieve  Millennium  Development  Goal  6,  we  need 
renewed  commitment  by  all  stakeholders,  within  the 
framework of a global and consistent approach.
Luxembourg  is  answering  that  call  by  giving 
priority  to  the  strengthening  of  health  systems  in 
the  partner  countries  of  its  development  cooperation 
policy.  We  supplement  that  approach  by  partnering 
with multilateral stakeholders such as the World Health 
Organization,  whose  activities  in  the  fight  against 
malaria  and  tropical  disease  research  programme  we 
support  with  an  annual  contribution  of  €3  million. 
Similarly,  our  annual  voluntary  contribution  to  the 
budget of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and  Malaria  amounts  to  €2.5  million.  We  need  to  be 
creative  and  innovative,  not  only  when  it  comes  to 
the  financing  of  access  to  prevention  and  treatment 
of malaria but also so as not to lose sight of the wider 
context in which the disease evolves and to strengthen 
national health systems in a sustainable manner.
taking 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  underlining  that 
Luxembourg’s  commitment  to  Africa  is  proof  of 
our  conviction  that  we  must  adopt  a  holistic  and 
multidimensional  approach, 
into  account 
development  issues,  peacebuilding  issues  and  issues 
related  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. We must recognize the intrinsic links among 
security,  development  and  respect  for  human  rights 
and the rule of law. All of those elements deserve clear 
focus as we embark together on defining the post-2015 
development agenda.
Mrs.  Kaur  (India):  I  am  honoured  to  address  the 
Assembly at today’s joint debate on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development,  progress  in  implementation 
and  international  support,  and  the  Decade  to  Roll 
Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries.  Allow  me  to 
convey  our  sincerest  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  timely  and  extremely  informative 
reports  on  the  agenda  items  under  discussion  today 
(A/67/204 and A/67/205).
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  articulates  both  a  vision  and  a  strategic 
socioeconomic  development  framework  for  Africa. 
India  applauds  the  progress  achieved  by  Africa  in  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD  priorities  over  the  past  10 
years  through  multisectoral  initiatives  in  agriculture, 
infrastructure,  health,  education,  science,  information 
technology and the environment.
However,  despite  those  positive  strides,  serious 
challenges  remain  to  be  addressed  before  the  African 
continent  can  achieve  all-round  development  and 
prosperity.  Extreme  poverty,  hunger,  lack  of  adequate 
nutrition,  conf licts  and  other  ills  continue  to  shackle 
4 
12 55213
the  tremendous  potential  of  the  African  people.  It  is 
therefore  important  to  acknowledge  that  addressing 
Africa’s development needs and challenges requires an 
unwavering commitment backed by resolute action, not 
only  from  within  Africa  but,  equally  important,  from 
outside the continent.
transfer 
including 
cooperation, 
It  is  imperative  that  the  international  community 
remain  resolute  in  its  support  for  Africa  through 
sustained 
of 
technology and resources and an enabling international 
environment. As pointed out in the Secretary-General’s 
report, as a proportion of the total global aid allocation 
in  2011  provided  by  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation and Development, Africa’s share remained 
virtually unchanged at a mere 37 per cent. Indeed, to date 
Africa  has  received  only  half  of  the  pledged  increase 
made at the Group of Eight Summit in Gleneagles. The 
international  community  therefore  needs  to  urgently 
address that gaping gap between promise and delivery. 
In  these  times  of  political  uncertainty  and  economic 
meltdown,  it  is  more  incumbent  than  ever  on  the 
continent’s development partners to stay the course and 
help African countries achieve their development goals.
The  India-Africa  relationship  is  based  on  firm 
historical  foundations  and  over 
the  decades  has 
grown  into  one  of  the  most  productive  and  durable 
partnerships.  Our  similar  historical  experiences  have 
engendered  a  common  world  view.  Understanding 
and  sensitivity  to  each  other’s  strengths,  requirements 
and  constraints  have  given  our  partnership  lasting 
strength and resilience. India is today on a path of rapid 
economic growth. Africa is also witnessing a phase of 
robust resurgence. Some of the world’s fastest-growing 
economies  are  in  Africa,  and  Africa  is  blessed  with 
a  young  and  dynamic  population.  We  have  therefore, 
together  with  our  African  friends,  transformed  our 
age-old  and  traditional  bond  into  an  enduring  and 
multidimensional relationship.
Our  partnership  with  Africa  is  aligned  with  the 
priorities  integral  to  the  development  goals  of  Africa 
and is built on the foundations of mutual equality and 
common  benefit.  At  the  Second  India-Africa  Forum 
Summit in 2011, India committed $5 billion for the next 
three years in lines of credit to help our African partners 
achieve their development goals. We also committed an 
additional $700 million to establish new institutions and 
training programmes, in consultation with the African 
Union  and  its  institutions. We  also  decided  to  support 
the development of a new Ethio-Djibouti railway line in 
A/67/PV.25
the amount of $300 million, in keeping with NEPAD’s 
priority of infrastructure development.
Following the success of the Pan-African e-Network 
Project,  we  are  working  on  the  establishment  of  an 
India-Africa  virtual  university,  which  will  help  to 
meet  some  of  the  demand  in  Africa  for  higher  studies 
in Indian institutions. We are making available 10,000 
new  scholarships  to  the  university  exclusively  for 
African  students.  Our  total  commitment  until  2014 
by  way  of  scholarships  to  African  students,  including 
under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation 
Programme, stands at more than 22,000. To strengthen 
trade  and  investment  f lows,  in  May  we  launched  the 
India  Africa  Business  Council,  whose  core  sectors 
of  cooperation  include  agriculture,  manufacturing, 
pharmaceuticals, 
petroleum 
and  natural  gas,  Internet  technology  and  Internet 
technology-enabled 
services, 
including microfinance, energy, roads and railways.
textiles,  mining, 
financial 
services, 
Given  the  sheer  potential  of  untapped  trade,  we 
have  raised  our  bilateral  trade  target  to  $90  billion 
by 2015 from the $70 billion target set earlier. We are 
already  making  available  duty-free  and  quota-free 
market access for goods from 34 of the least developed 
countries  (LDCs)  in  Africa,  which  covers  94  per  cent 
of  India’s  total  tariff  lines  and  provides  preferential 
market  access  on  tariff  lines  that  add  up  to  92.5  per 
cent of the global exports of all LDCs. Moreover, under 
the  India-Brazil-South  Africa  Facility  for  Hunger  and 
Poverty  Alleviation  trust  fund,  we  have  completed 
several  successful  projects  in  Burundi,  Cape  Verde, 
Guinea-Bissau  and  Sierra  Leone  for  strengthening 
infrastructure and capacity-building.
like  malaria,  HIV  and 
India’s  capacity-building  partnership  with  Africa 
includes  training  for  medical  specialists  to  tackle 
pandemics 
tuberculosis. 
Our  private  sector  has 
in 
pharmaceutical  manufacturing  facilities  in  several 
African  countries.  We  remain  committed  to  the 
complete  elimination  of  malaria  and  would  like  to 
thank the Secretary-General for adopting that as one of 
his top priorities.
invested  substantially 
India’s  engagement  with  Africa  is  built  on  a 
strong  focus  on  comprehensive  capacity-building, 
contributing  to  human  resource  development  and 
facilitating greater intra-African cooperation. We have 
redirected  our  age-old  bonds  of  friendship  to  respond 
to  the  contemporary  aspirations  of  our  peoples  and 
are  building  a  partnership  that  is  increasingly  being 
12 55213
5
A/67/PV.25
cited  as  the  beacon  of  South-South  cooperation.  That 
partnership,  indeed,  has  the  potential  to  strengthen 
global governance systems and democratize multilateral 
institutions.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  quote  the  words  of 
my Prime Minister, Mr. Manmohan Singh:
“The twenty-first century is often described as 
the Asian century. India wishes to see the twenty-
first century as the century of Asia and Africa, with 
the  people  of  the  two  continents  working  together 
to promote inclusive globalization. Events in India 
and  Africa  in  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  century 
changed the world. Today, we have a second chance 
to  take  charge  of  our  own  destiny  and  give  new 
meaning  to  the  concept  of  sustainable,  equitable 
and environment-friendly development.”
Mr. Maalim (United Republic of Tanzania): Despite 
a century of scientific progress in preventing, treating 
and understanding the malaria parasite and its means of 
reproduction, malaria continues to be one of the world’s 
most  burdensome  diseases.  Malaria  is  concentrated  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa  and  disproportionately  affects  the 
rural  poor.  Rural  households  in  sub-Saharan  Africa 
are mostly engaged in agricultural production. Malaria 
infection  has  a  significant  negative  impact  on  such 
agricultural  households,  because  it  is  both  costly  to 
treat and damaging to household production due to loss 
of labour. In Tanzania, malaria remains one of the major 
health challenges. In mainland Tanzania, it is a leading 
cause  of  outpatient  and  inpatient  hospital  visits,  such 
that between 30 and 40 per cent of all outpatient visits 
are  attributable  to  malaria.  People  die  from  malaria 
every day, mainly children and pregnant women.
Our  Government  has  implemented  several  efforts 
to  address  malaria.  Between  2008  and  May  2012  we 
succeeded  in  reducing  its  prevalence  among  young 
children  by  44  per  cent.  In  Zanzibar,  deaths  from 
malaria are near zero. Our challenge in Zanzibar is to 
sustain  that  achievement.  For  mainland  Tanzania,  we 
are  replicating  lessons  learned  in  Zanzibar,  such  as 
residual  spraying  on  malaria  breeding  sites;  making 
long-term insecticide-treated nets available at every bed 
site;  and  providing  early  treatment  for  those  infected, 
as well as control and surveillance aimed at preventing 
re-emergence and epidemics.
We  have  registered  significant  progress  with  the 
availability  of  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets. 
In  order  to  cover  every  sleeping  space  with  treated 
nets  as  quickly  as  possible,  the  Government  made  a 
deliberate decision to give free nets to all children and 
then  to  every  household.  This  progress,  coupled  with 
targeted  applications  of  indoor  residual  spraying  and 
modest  increases  in  access  to  intermittent  preventive 
therapy,  rapid  diagnosis  tests,  and  artemisinin-based 
combination  therapies  (ACTs),  has  resulted  in  visible 
reductions in rates of malaria cases, hospital admissions 
and deaths.
In  combating  malaria,  we  already  know  what 
interventions and tools are needed. We also know what 
works and what does not. It is important to follow the 
recommendations  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO) on banning the use of monotherapies, although 
that  requires  making  the  right  combination  therapies 
available  at  affordable  prices.  In  Tanzania,  ACTs  are 
available  in  the  public  sector  at  no  cost  to  pregnant 
women  and  children  and  at  an  affordable  price  for 
some  other  groups.  In  the  private  sector,  the  price  for 
a  course  of  treatment  is  high,  which  is  a  hindrance 
to  the  majority  of  the  patients  seeking  treatment  in 
private  health  centres.  In  that  regard,  the  Government 
is  partnering  with  the  Affordable  Medicines  Facility, 
a  subsidy  mechanism  of  the  Global  Fund,  to  support 
affordable ACTs to both sectors.
In our view, Governments should consider reducing 
or waiving taxes and tariffs for nets and other products 
needed for malaria control, both to reduce the price of 
the products for consumers and to stimulate free trade 
in  those  products.  Tanzania  was  the  first  country  in 
Africa to do so. Eliminating such taxes and tariffs helps 
to  reduce  import  delays  and  lowers  prices  in  both  the 
public  and  the  private  sectors.  The  budget  benefit  to 
health far outweighs the revenue loss.
In spite of the very positive advances we have made, 
numerous challenges remain. Certainly, success in the 
fight  against  malaria  requires  two  things:  leadership 
and  resources.  African  leaders,  through  the  African 
Leaders  Malaria  Alliance  (ALMA),  are  providing  the 
leadership and are working together to combat malaria. 
However,  we  face  a  huge  resource  gap.  We  all  know 
that  malaria  is  a  curable  disease.  Nonetheless,  at  this 
point, and rightly so, our focus has been on prevention, 
as it is cheaper and easier. But establishing an effective 
treatment  infrastructure  is  also  critical.  Access  to 
prompt, effective treatment is a key element to success 
in  fighting  malaria.  And  that  access  means  having 
health-care facilities as well as health-care workers to 
diagnose  the  disease  and  administer  medication.  That 
6 
12 55213
is  where  our  problem  lies.  Most  of  our  Governments 
in  the  developing  world  do  not  have  the  ability  to 
guarantee access to treatment to the majority of people, 
particularly  in  rural  areas,  where  people  suffer  from 
malaria without knowing it.
In the meantime, the Government has embarked on 
a comprehensive programme to deal with the question 
of access to health care. We are building a dispensary 
in every village and a health-care centre in every ward. 
This  programme  will  certainly  be  instrumental  to  the 
success of our anti-malaria effort, as it will guarantee 
prompt  diagnosis  and  treatment.  In  the  end,  as  we  all 
know,  such  programmes  need  massive  resources,  and 
the  Government  cannot  do  it  alone.  We  need  support 
and partnership from the international community and 
the private sector.
We  are  winning  the  battle  against  malaria.  With 
three  years  remaining  until  2015,  we  must  make 
greater  efforts  to  reach  and  even  exceed  the  targets 
we  have  set  for  ourselves.  We  must  not  only  achieve 
universal  coverage  with  effective  interventions,  we 
must  also  work  to  remove  stumbling  blocks  and 
bottlenecks  that  render  our  efforts  less  effective.  We 
should  recommit,  individually  and  collectively,  to 
the  Abuja  targets  that  we  set  ourselves.  We  should 
act  on  the  WHO  recommendations  on  banning  the 
marketing  and  use  of  monotherapies.  We  should  also 
find ways of accelerating the procurement of drugs and 
commodities.  Indeed,  we  must  do  whatever  we  can  to 
win the battle against malaria. We thank the secretariat 
of ALMA and the Special Envoy for Malaria, UNICEF 
and the World Bank for their efforts in helping member 
States accelerate the procurement process. We implore 
them to continue their efforts.
Mr. Haase (Australia): Thank you, Sir, for presiding 
over  this  joint  debate.  I  also  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his reports (A/67/204 and A/67/205).
impressive  achievements 
It is appropriate, as we mark Africa Week and the 
International  Day  for  the  Eradication  of  Poverty,  and 
as we enter the second decade of the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  that  we  recall 
NEPAD’s 
in  promoting 
development  and  growth  in  Africa.  It  is  also  a  time 
to  consider  how  much  work  remains  to  be  done  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
in  many  countries,  an  issue  on  which  the  Australian 
Prime Minister, as co-Chair of the Secretary-General’s 
MDG Advocacy Group, is highly focused. As we know, 
security and development are inextricably linked, and it 
A/67/PV.25
is essential that, as we look to formulate the post-2015 
development agenda, we keep the lessons and needs of 
development in Africa firmly in focus.
Australia  is  highly  optimistic  about  Africa.  We 
recognize its growing role and leadership. It is a credit 
to the leaders and people of Africa that 11 of the world’s 
fastest-growing  economies  are  African.  Australia  is  a 
growing partner for Africa. Our development assistance 
has  tripled  since  2007  and  continues  to  increase.  This 
development  cooperation  is  focused  on  supporting 
African  priorities,  including  the  priorities  expressed 
through NEPAD.
Australia  seeks  to  make  a  practical  and  focused 
contribution  in  areas  where  we  have  expertise  and 
experience: agriculture and food security, maternal and 
child  health,  water  and  sanitation,  mining  governance 
and  human  resource  capacity-building.  As  a  growing 
donor,  we  support  the  establishment  of  the  NEPAD 
Planning and Coordination Agency and its integration 
into the processes and structures of the African Union. 
NEPAD  assists  us  to  set  priorities  and  coordinate 
with  other  initiatives  in  Africa  at  the  national  and 
regional 
levels.  NEPAD’s  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme,  for  example, 
has helped Australia focus our food security assistance, 
coordinating with others and avoiding duplication.
The  droughts  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Sahel 
have  devastating  impacts.  We  encourage  NEPAD  to 
work  with  African  Governments  and  the  international 
community to develop new strategies to respond to the 
impact  of  climate  change  on  food  production  and  to 
continue to build long-term resilience to crises. Overall, 
Australia  has  pledged  $150  million  to  improve  food 
security  in  Africa,  including  through  the  Australian 
International  Food  Security  Centre,  which  is  set  to 
open an office in Nairobi.
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Australia  understands  the  blessings  and  curses 
of  natural  resource  endowment.  We  are  seeking  to 
share the lessons we have learned, through Australia’s 
$127 million Mining for Development initiative, which 
is  helping  African  countries  to  maximize  the  benefits 
and opportunities of their mining sectors. Australia is 
also working with the African Union and the Economic 
Commission  for  Africa  to  promote  the  Africa  Mining 
Vision  2050  and  to  assist  in  the  establishment  of  the 
African mining development centre.
12 55213
7
A/67/PV.25
Further  enhancing  Africa’s  development  outlook 
requires  stronger  partnership  from  the  international 
community. We international partners need to do what 
we say. We are therefore pleased with the establishment 
of  a  monitoring  mechanism  to  review  commitments 
made towards Africa’s development.
Agricultural  trade  liberalization,  combined  with 
effective  aid  for  trade,  will  assist  Africa  to  trade  its 
way  out  of  poverty.  Australia  is  concerned  with  the 
stalling  of  the  Doha  Round  and  will  continue  to  press 
robustly for an ambitious, comprehensive outcome that 
liberalizes  agricultural  trade.  NEPAD  can  continue  to 
play a useful role in supporting improved intraregional 
trade,  which  remains  too  low.  We  also  fully  support 
NEPAD  playing  an  enhanced  role  in  undertaking 
appropriate reforms to attract private-sector investment 
and  partnerships  in  order  to  support  much-needed 
infrastructure development.
I  turn  now  to  the  issue  of  malaria.  Despite  recent 
progress,  there  are  still  more  than  200  million  cases 
of  malaria  globally  each  year.  Africa  is  hardest  hit. 
Australia  has  been  working  to  help  African  nations 
battle  malaria,  including  through  our  long-standing 
support for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and  Malaria,  to  which  Australia  has  contributed 
$250  million  since  2004  and  committed  another 
$170  million  by  2015.  Malaria  is  also  undermining 
development  and  causing  human  suffering  in  the 
Asia-Pacific  region,  where  there  are  approximately 
30 million cases each year, and where we are working, 
through the Asia-Pacific Malaria Elimination Network, 
to address this scourge.
The gains the global community has made in terms 
of  malaria  are  at  risk.  Resistance  to  the  drugs  used  to 
treat malaria is emerging in the Mekong region of South-
East  Asia.  These  drugs  are  our  last  line  of  defence.  If 
we cannot work together quickly to contain resistance, 
there  is  a  real  threat  that  malaria  will  spread  beyond 
Asia,  with  many  more  thousands  of  lives  lost.  It  is  in 
all  of  our  interests  to  contain  drug  resistance.  This  is 
the focus of an international conference to be held later 
this  month  in  Sydney,  hosted  by  Australia’s  Foreign 
Minister  and  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General for Malaria.
Realizing  Africa’s  development  potential  and 
combating malaria require increased collective efforts 
that  draw  on  the  strengths  of  national  Governments, 
regional  organizations  such  as  the  African  Union, 
international  organizations,  the  private  sector  and 
civil  society,  efforts  where  partnerships  are  key.  The 
Assembly  may  rest  assured  of  Australia’s  strong 
partnership as we work collectively towards these goals.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon):  I  have  the 
pleasure to deliver, on behalf of the African Group, this 
statement  on  three  items  of  paramount  importance  to 
our continent’s quest for peace and development.
This 
important  debate  coincides  with 
the 
International  Day  for  the  Eradication  of  Poverty.  It 
should  therefore  serve  as  a  stark  reminder  to  all  of  us 
that, despite the progress made in lifting millions out of 
poverty around the world, too many of our fellow human 
beings remain trapped in conditions of abject poverty. 
Therefore, we need to intensify our efforts for the full 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  commitments 
to  Africa  with  regard  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 
60/1),  the  2008  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for 
Development  (resolution  63/239,  annex),  the  2008 
political  declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs 
(resolution 63/1), the Outcome of the 2009 Conference 
on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  its 
Impact  on  Development  (resolution  63/303,  annex), 
the  Istanbul  Declaration  adopted  at  the  Fourth  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, 
held in 2011, and, last but not least, the implementation 
of  the  outcome  document  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
of  the  2012  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20).
The  African  Group  expresses  its  appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  substantive  reports 
under  consideration  today:  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development:  tenth  consolidated  progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support” 
(A/67/204)  and  “Causes  of  conf lict  and  the  promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa” (A/67/205). Those reports ref lect the increasing 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  support  to 
the  African  Union,  including  through  the  NEPAD 
Agency,  the  regional  economic  communities,  the 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and  other  regional 
and  subregional  actors  in  the  field,  coordinated  and 
supported  by  the  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  on  Africa  and  by  his  Office.  However,  the 
African Group would be keen to see some improvement 
in the reports’ contents. Indeed, the reports submitted 
to  the  Assembly  have  been  too  descriptive  thus  far. 
Consequently, the Group encourages the Secretariat to 
explore ways to present more analytical and evaluative 
8 
12 55213
reports in the future, in the light of predetermined goals 
and objectives.
climate  change  and  in  many  other  aspects  that  are 
delaying the meeting of Africa’s developmental needs.
A/67/PV.25
The  African  Group  also  expresses  its  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  wise 
decision  to  implement  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions  by  maintaining  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser on Africa as a separate and independent office 
within  the  Secretariat,  through  the  appointment  of  an 
experienced  Under-Secretary-General  as  his  Special 
Adviser on Africa. That decision, no doubt, will enhance 
the  interaction  between  the  African  Group  and  the 
United Nations system through the Special Adviser and 
his  Office  to  ensure  intensified  support  of  the  United 
Nations  system  to  African  efforts  in  development  and 
peace and security. The African Group expects that the 
decision will be the first step in a series of decisions to 
enhance the ability of Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa to undertake its important mandate effectively.
its 
As  NEPAD  enters 
second  decade  of 
implementation,  prospects  for  Africa’s  development 
appear  even  brighter.  With  great  political  will,  the 
African  nations  can  make  sizeable  gains  in  various 
NEPAD priority sectors. Progress made by the African 
countries in agriculture, infrastructure, information and 
communication technology and governance has shown 
that  Africa  is  meeting  the  challenge  and  fulfilling  its 
share of the bargain. 
However,  owing  to  resource  gaps  and  capacity 
constraints, international support should be intensified 
to complement Africa’s own efforts. The African Group 
is  confident  that  despite  the  economic  and  financial 
crisis  affecting  all  of  us,  our  partners  in  development 
will  push  further  in  implementing  their  part  of  the 
partnership.
In  that  vein,  the  African  Group  stresses  that 
intensified  efforts  are  much  needed  to  achieve  the 
progress  required  in  many  areas:  first,  in  official 
development  assistance,  particularly  as  committed 
to  in  the  2005  summit  of  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8) 
in  Gleneagles;  secondly,  in  agriculture  and  food 
security,  particularly  as  committed  to  at  the  G-8 
Summits  in  L’Aquila  and  in  Maryland;  thirdly,  in 
vigorously  addressing  Africa’s  debt  problems  through 
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative 
and  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative;  fourthly, 
in  effectively  addressing  the  decline  in  foreign  direct 
investment  inf lows  to  Africa;  and  fifthly,  in  pushing 
forward  on  issues  of  trade  barriers,  food  security  and 
Looking to the future, the African Group attaches 
great importance to the implementation of the outcome 
document of Rio+20. The sustainable development goals 
should  duly  respect  the  African  priorities  as  ref lected 
in NEPAD and supplemented by the African consensus 
that  emerged  at  summit  level  before  the  Conference. 
The  means  of  implementation  to  be  negotiated  should 
ensure  that  the  financial  means  necessary  to  achieve 
sustainable  development,  including  the  sustainable 
development  goals,  will  be  provided  to  Africa  as  a 
priority.
The  African  Group  also  stresses  the  urgent  need 
to activate the monitoring mechanism that the General 
Assembly  established  by  resolution  66/293  to  ensure 
mutual  accountability  and  partnership,  focusing  on 
the  follow-up  of  the  implementation  of  commitments 
made  by  the  African  nations  and  by  our  partners  in 
development.  It  would  require  extensive  efforts  to 
collect  the  data  that  is  required  to  ensure  accuracy. 
As the Office of the Special Adviser is mandated with 
that task, the African Group trusts that the Secretary-
General,  in  full  compliance  with  the  resolution,  will 
make  available  the  necessary  resources  to  ensure  the 
success of the mechanism from within the Organization’s 
existing  resources,  and  not  from  the  existing  limited 
resources of the Office of the Special Adviser.
Another  important  issue  that  requires  greater 
attention  is  the  preparatory  process  for  the  post-2015 
development agenda. The African Group believes that 
that  process  should  be  built  around  the  successes  and 
failures of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
in a manner that would not allow us to lose sight of the 
unfulfilled commitments to Africa in the achievement 
of  the  MDGs.  The  preparatory  process  in  New  York 
should  be  streamlined  with  the  preparatory  process  at 
the regional level, so that the post-2015 developmental 
agenda  becomes  peoples-centred,  thus  ensuring  its 
success.
In all of those future processes, the African Group 
believes that African States and the Office of the Special 
Adviser  should  be  appropriately  involved,  so  as  to 
ensure synergy between the regional and international 
dimensions. That would also require that the Secretary-
General enhance that Office’s ability to undertake that 
responsibility,  including  through  additional  financial 
means.
12 55213
9
A/67/PV.25
On  the  causes  of  conf lict  and  the  promotion  of 
durable  peace  in  Africa,  it  must  be  noted  that  Africa 
has  seen  many  positive  steps  towards  consolidating 
democracy.  Twenty-three  African  countries  will  have 
held  democratic  elections  between  August  2011  and 
March  2013.  In  addition,  the  progress  made  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and Sierra 
Leone  towards  solidifying  democratic  governance 
is  a  source  of  pride.  Most  significantly  this  year,  the 
constitutional  referendum  and  elections  in  Somalia 
were  successfully  concluded  and  agreements  were 
reached between the Sudan and South Sudan on many 
of the pending issues.
However, progress on elections and democracy has 
not  been  without  challenges.  Democratic  processes  in 
Mali and Guinea-Bissau were stalled after coups d’état 
in March and April, respectively. We highly appreciate 
the  support  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Security 
Council  for  the  efforts  of  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic Community of West African States and other 
parties  involved  in  the  search  for  a  solution.  In  that 
context,  the  African  Group  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s initiative to convene four high-level meetings 
on the situation in the Sahel region, Somalia, the Sudan 
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Despite 
that  remarkable  progress,  significant 
efforts  are  needed  to  eradicate  factors  of  instability 
and  that  cause  the  weakening  of  States,  such  as  the 
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  the 
increasing drug trafficking — two phenomena that feed 
terrorism, criminality and corruption.
Today,  Africa  has  both  opportunities  and 
challenges.  Let  us  capitalize  on  the  opportunities  and 
face the challenges. The African Group is committed to 
doing so and counts on the support of the international 
community for a better future for Africa and its peoples.
I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  in  my  capacity  as 
representative of Cameroon.
(spoke in French)
First, I thank the Secretary-General for the reports 
under  consideration  today  and  in  particular  for  the 
progress achieved. 
In line with previous sessions, I will endeavour to 
provide a somewhat simple view that is also consistent 
with  what  I  believe  has  happened  over  the  past  year. 
I  will  limit  myself  to  a  few  salient  points  in  order  to 
place them in relation to the causes of conf lict and the 
promotion of durable peace and development in Africa.
international  organizations  and 
We  welcome  the  measures  undertaken  by  the 
the 
regional  and 
United  Nations  system,  as  well  as 
the  African 
countries themselves, in the sectors identified, namely, 
infrastructure,  agriculture  and  food  security,  health, 
education,  tourism,  information  and  communications 
technology,  science  and  technology.  While  progress 
has  been  achieved  in  those  sectors,  we  note  with  the 
Secretary-General  that  in  spite  of  the  increase  in  the 
official  development  assistance  provided  to  Africa 
since 2004, that inf lux is well below pledges.
With  regard  to  debt  in  particular,  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  does  indeed  point  out  that  the  debt 
burden  of  African  countries  has  been  considerably 
reduced 
the 
global  and  bilateral  levels.  But  at  the  same  time,  debt 
sustainability  came  under  pressure  as  a  result  of  the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  with  the  drop  in 
foreign direct investment inf lows to Africa.
implemented  at 
through 
initiatives 
That  picture  is  in  complete  contrast  with  the 
assessment  of  NEPAD.  It  ref lects  the  reality  of  a 
difficult  economic  situation  that  lends  itself  to  the 
development of factors favourable to the emergence of 
conf licts. As stated so well in the Secretary-General’s 
report,
“the ... exclusion of significant portions of society 
from institutions of political governance and from 
access  to  ...  economic  assets  and  social  services 
is  not  only  one  of  the  main  triggers  of  conf lict, 
but  it  also  makes  it  difficult  to  attain  sustainable 
development” (A/67/205, para. 3). 
That assertion by the Secretary-General makes obvious 
the issue of exclusion — or inclusion, according to the 
angle from which we tackle the problem. 
In the Secretary-General’s report two specific items 
attracted  our  attention:  sustained  economic  growth 
and  sustainable  development,  and  the  management  of 
diversity. Both have been taken as means of preventing 
conf licts and promoting durable peace. With regard to 
economic  policies  and  access  to  resources,  Cameroon 
launched  a  few  years  ago  a  policy  called  Grand 
Achievements,  which  concerns  infrastructure,  growth 
and  jobs.  In  addition  to  the  industrial  jobs  created 
through that enormous programme, young people have 
also benefited from recruitment for 25,000 posts in the 
civil service.
10 
12 55213
I  conclude  by  saying  that  from  an  economic 
standpoint,  my  country  is  doing  everything  it  can  to 
promote  citizen  participation  in  the  national  political 
life  without  distinction  as  to  ethnic  or  religious 
background.  At  the  level  of  local  groups,  the  current 
decentralization programme also promotes the broadest 
citizen participation possible. 
Those  are  the  efforts  undertaken  by  my  country 
to  tackle  the  root  causes  of  conf licts  and  to  promote 
sustainable peace and development in Cameroon, in our 
subregion and in Africa.
Mrs. Jusu (Sierra Leone): At the outset, allow me 
to compliment the Secretary-General for his instructive 
and  forward-looking  reports  on  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  progress  on 
implementation  and  international  support  (A/67/204) 
and on causes of conf lict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa (A/67/205). 
My  delegation  also  expresses  its  appreciation  of 
Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz,  Under-Secretary-General  and 
Special Adviser on Africa, and his dedicated team for 
their advisory and advocacy work in promoting Africa’s 
development  agenda.  Let  me  also  thank  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Assane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer of the NEPAD 
Planning and Coordinating Agency, for his leadership, 
drive and innovative approach in ensuring progress in 
the implementation of the key priorities of NEPAD.
Sierra Leone attaches great importance to NEPAD, 
as it is a collective vision and strategic socioeconomic 
development  framework  aimed  at  generating  broad-
based,  sustained  and  equitable  economic  growth  that 
allows Africa to reduce poverty and to better integrate 
into  the  global  economy.  It  is  in  that  context  that  the 
fourteenth  ordinary  session  of  the  Assembly  of  the 
African  Union  integrated  NEPAD  into  the  structures 
and  processes  of  the  African  Union.  That  decision 
added  further  impetus  to  the  role  of  NEPAD  as  the 
continent’s f lagship development programme.
To  that  end,  African  countries,  with  the  support 
of  the  international  community,  have  continued  to 
take  policy  actions  to  implement  the  NEPAD  sectoral 
priorities  and  enhance  their  prospects  of  attaining  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  we 
take  note  of  the  positive  indication  in  the  report  that, 
despite the global economic slowdown and the lingering 
impact  of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD. We therefore commend the NEPAD Planning 
A/67/PV.25
and  Coordinating  Agency  for  its  continued  efforts  in 
generating fresh momentum and new dynamism in the 
implementation of the NEPAD priority activities.
With  accelerated  growth  over  the  last  decade, 
improvement  in  governance,  the  spectre  of  conf licts 
receding and improvement in leadership, it is clear that 
Africa  is  at  a  critical  turning  point.  Steady  progress 
is  also  recorded  in  malaria  control  and  prevention 
mechanisms,  with  many  households  sleeping  under 
treated  mosquito  bed  nets.  Some  African  heads  of 
State, including the President of Sierra Leone, made a 
further  commitment  to  reach  the  Secretary-General’s 
goal  of  ensuring  universal  access  to  malaria  control 
interventions and launched the African Leaders Malaria 
Alliance  with  the  goal  of  ending  preventable  malaria 
deaths by 2015.
However,  we  note  that  the  progress  made  so 
far  continues  to  have  less  impact  in  the  face  of  the 
deepening  effects  of  an  unprecedented  economic  and 
financial  crisis  and  the  effects  of  climate  change —  a 
crisis that undoubtedly has had a much graver impact on 
the developing world, in particular the least developed 
countries, most of which are in Africa.
The integration of NEPAD into the African Union 
provides a window for strategic partnership to explore 
areas  of  cooperation  in  order  to  address  such  global 
challenges as the debt issue, climate change, trade and 
regional integration, and sustainable development.
We  are  heartened  by  the  ongoing  implementation 
of  NEPAD  projects  ranging  from  the  Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme, 
infrastructure,  environment,  gender  mainstreaming 
and  education 
training 
information  and 
communications technologies.
in 
to 
At  the  level  of  governance,  advances  in  the 
implementation of the African Peer Review Mechanism 
demonstrate  Africa’s  resolve  and  commitment 
to 
promoting  democracy,  good  governance,  peace  and 
stability  on  the  continent.  We  are  also  encouraged  by 
the increase in the number of countries that have joined 
the  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  and  we  commend  its 
consolidation as the African Union f lagship programme 
on governance.
in  development,  we  should  continue 
In  order  to  build  on  these  gains  and  make  further 
strides 
to 
increase  domestic  savings  and  lessen  dependence  on 
foreign  aid.  We  should  continue  to  invest  further  in 
science,  technology  and  innovation  in  order  to  take 
12 55213
11
A/67/PV.25
full  advantage  of  progress  in  those  areas,  including 
in  increasing  value  addition  in  natural  resources, 
job  creation,  investment  in  infrastructure  and  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  In  that  regard,  foreign  direct  investment 
aimed  at  creating  public-private  partnerships  and  a 
vibrant  private  sector  continues  to  be  a  viable  option 
in addressing unemployment and underemployment, as 
well as in promoting socioeconomic development. 
Africa’s  share  of  the  world  agricultural  market 
continues  to  be  extremely  low  and  has  decreased  in 
recent  years.  We  therefore  urge  development  partners 
to  take  bold  steps  to  conclude  trade  negotiations 
with  development  dimensions,  which  would  reduce 
trade-distorting  subsidies  for  agricultural  products, 
increase  access  to  markets  for  African  farmers  and 
phase  out  barriers  to  trade  at  the  national  and  global 
levels.
My  delegation  also  calls  on  NEPAD  to  focus  on 
improving  Africa’s  global  standing  and  enhancing 
linkages  with 
the  continent’s  regional  economic 
communities.
There  is  increasing  awareness  that  responsibility 
for peace and security in Africa, including the capacity 
to  address  the  root  causes  of  conf lict  and  to  resolve 
conf licts  in  a  peaceful  manner,  lies  primarily  with 
African  countries  themselves.  The  African  Union 
and  the  subregional  organizations  have  undertaken  to 
strengthen  their  capacity  in  conf lict  prevention  and 
resolution.  While  those  efforts  are  ongoing,  we  are 
also  witnessing  a  new  wave  of  challenges,  including 
transnational organized crime, the proliferation of small 
arms  and  light  weapons,  terrorism,  piracy,  issues  of 
governance and human rights and threats to democracy, 
drought,  famine  and  corruption.  Furthermore,  while 
reducing extreme poverty and hunger remains our main 
development challenge, most African countries are also 
grappling  with  the  problems  of  youth  unemployment, 
climate  change  and  inadequate  productive  capacity. 
Those  challenges  continue  to  frustrate  their  efforts  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
In 
internationally 
keeping  with 
agreed 
development  outcome  documents  — 
including 
those  on  the  MDGs  (resolution  55/2),  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) and the Istanbul Programme 
of  Action  (A/CONF.219/3/Rev.1)  —  we  also  urge 
development  partners  to  meet  their  commitments 
and  deliver  on  the  pledges  made  in  Busan  at  the 
High-level  Forum  on  Aid  Effectiveness  to  achieve  an 
official  development  assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent 
and  0.15  per  cent  for  developing  and  least  developed 
countries, respectively.
In 2002, Sierra Leone emerged from a decade-long 
civil  conf lict  to  become  a  country  that  is  cited  as  a 
success  story  for  United  Nations  peacebuilding  and 
peace consolidation efforts. Despite the major challenges 
we  still  face,  Sierra  Leone  is  seen  as  a  good  example 
of  how  a  country  can  move  from  conf lict  to  a  stable 
and peaceful democracy. Today, with support from our 
development  partners,  we  have  introduced  policies  to 
accelerate  our  interventions  in  the  productive  sectors, 
expand our infrastructure, protect the environment and 
improve social safety nets.
To  ensure  durable  peace,  it  is  vital  to  forge 
coordinated  partnerships  aimed  at  strengthening 
a  country’s  capacity  to  respond  to  the  crises  and 
security  threats  associated  with  those  challenges, 
particularly  in  conf lict  and  post-conf lict  countries. 
There  is  a  clear  need  to  step  up  efforts  to  improve 
early-warning  systems  for  impending  threats  to  peace 
and  stability  in  Africa.  In  that  context,  my  delegation 
commends  the  2010  comprehensive  review  (A/65/152) 
of  the  implementation  of  the  1998  recommendations 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conf lict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa  (A/52/871),  in  the  light  of  new 
and  emerging  issues  affecting  human  security  in 
Africa.  My  delegation  also  notes  the  policy  proposals 
and recommendations in the Secretary-General’s most 
recent report, in document A/67/205.
In  order  to  position  our  development  within 
a 
focused,  coherent  and  prioritized 
framework, 
in  2008  we  developed  the  Agenda  for  Change,  a 
five-year  development  framework  that  is  our  second-
generation  poverty  reduction  strategy  paper,  with 
which  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  United 
Nations  country  team  and  other  development  partners 
have  realigned  their  strategies.  This  development 
and  peacebuilding  framework  sets  clear  priorities 
that  target  the  drivers  of  growth  and  the  necessary 
conditions  for  sustainable  development  in  key  areas 
such  as  energy,  agriculture,  transport,  health,  youth 
employment,  gender  and  education.  The  strategies  for 
developing these priorities include, among other things, 
improving  the  capacity  of  public  services,  enhancing 
public-  and  private-sector  partnerships  and  enhancing 
good governance at all levels, including in our domestic 
12 
12 55213
financial  system.  As  a  result,  we  have  increased  grid-
distributed  electricity  some  tenfold  and  are  on  course 
to  develop  hydropower  and  biomass  sources  as  the 
core  of  our  energy  mix.  Agricultural  productivity  has 
increased,  with  improvements  in  food  sufficiency, 
security  and  nutrition.  Indeed,  Sierra  Leone’s  efforts 
have  been  recognized  with  the  President,  Ernest  Bai 
Koroma, and the Minister of Agriculture being named 
the Comprehensive African Agricultural Development 
Programme Champions of Africa.
Our  free  health-care  programme  for  lactating  and 
pregnant women and children under 5 years of age has 
significantly reduced  — by half — infant and maternal 
mortality in a little over a year, since its launch. Having 
started  by  signing  gender  acts  into  law,  we  have  also 
just  recently  passed  a  sexual  offences  act  to  protect 
women against the most widespread abuse and violation 
of  rights  in  our  country.  We  have  also  introduced 
free  malaria  treatment  for  all  age  groups  in  all  public 
health  facilities  when  the  disease  is  confirmed  by  the 
use of rapid diagnostic tests. Malaria control has seen 
significant progress, especially in the area of prevention 
through the use of long-lasting insecticide-treated nets.
In  education,  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary 
enrolment  has  risen  significantly,  and  the  quality  of 
the results of our candidates in external exams is also 
seriously improving. We have reduced barriers to doing 
business.  We  launched  the  largest  road-construction 
programme in the history of Sierra Leone, privatized our 
seaport  and  substantially  upgraded  our  airport.  Those 
achievements  and  the  highly  favourable  private-sector 
investment  incentives  have  resulted  in  substantially 
increased foreign direct investments over the years.
the 
Notwithstanding 
insecurity  and  poverty, 
foregoing,  Sierra  Leone 
continues  to  face  multiple  challenges  in  building 
capacities in the public and private sectors, addressing 
unemployment  among  youth,  improving  health  care, 
reducing  food 
increasing 
investment  in  education,  providing  access  to  safe 
drinking  water  for  everyone,  meeting  the  increasing 
demand for sustained information and communications 
technologies,  and  bringing  sustainable  energy  to  all. 
In  the  current  global  economic  climate,  Sierra  Leone, 
like  many  other  countries,  continues  to  be  affected 
in  its  quest  to  attract  substantial  donor  support  for  its 
development projects.
To  achieve  our  common  vision,  bold  actions  are 
required  from  all  of  us.  In  particular,  international 
support  from  traditional  and  non-traditional  donors 
A/67/PV.25
and  the  promotion  of  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation  are  critical 
to  achieving  sustainable 
development.  To  achieve  progress  and  to  remain  in 
line  with  country-specific  priorities,  there  is  a  need 
for  technology  transfer  and  greater  investment  in 
infrastructure,  agriculture  and  social  facilities  and 
services. There is also a need for further incentives for 
foreign direct investment.
We  are 
secured. 
Increased 
inspired  by 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative  and  congratulate 
the High-level Group for the work done and the financial 
commitments 
private-sector 
participation in energy delivery is a prerequisite to the 
achievement  of  sustainable  development.  The  private 
sector needs, therefore, to develop risk-mitigation tools 
and instruments that will encourage private capital to be 
allocated without sacrificing the need for efficiency and 
appropriate  returns.  The  private  sector  must,  in  turn, 
look  at  the  long-term  predictable  income  streams  that 
the energy sector offers and not ignore the stability that 
most  developing  countries  and  emerging  democracies 
now  enjoy.  In  that  manner,  they  can  price  their  risks 
reasonably.  Energy  remains  an  important  engine  of 
growth and development, a key to enhancing productive 
capacity and a catalyst for job creation. In that regard, 
we  are  committed  to  intensifying  our  cooperation  in 
the context of triangular and South-South cooperation 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  productive  capacity  of 
vulnerable members of the global community, most of 
whom reside in Africa.
In conclusion, allow me to reiterate Sierra Leone’s 
commitment  to  furthering  the  objectives  of  NEPAD, 
the  promotion  of  good  governance,  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development on the continent.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Beviglia  Zampetti  (European  Union):  I 
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  acceding 
country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement.
At  the  third  Africa-European  Union  Summit  held 
in  November  2010,  EU  and  African  leaders  renewed 
12 55213
13
A/67/PV.25
their  commitment  to  working  together  to  tackle 
global  challenges,  namely,  climate  change,  conf lict 
prevention  and  good  governance,  inter  alia,  and  to 
address  energy,  infrastructure,  food  security  and  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as a priority. 
They  emphasized  the  need  to  encourage  investment, 
growth  and  employment,  in  particular  for  youth.  The 
EU recognizes the essential role played by the African 
Union and its New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD)  programme  in  the  definition  of  continental 
policy  frameworks  and  programmes,  respecting  in 
full the notions of subsidiarity and ownership, and the 
programme’s role as a monitor of commitments towards 
African development needs.
Support  from  the  international  community  must 
be  aimed  at  assisting  African  institutions  and  African 
countries  to  develop  their  own  capacities  to  promote 
continental,  regional  and  national  projects  and  to 
mobilize  the  necessary  resources  for  the  priorities 
identified.  Our  aim  is  to  support  Africa’s  political 
and  economic  integration  through  enhanced  trade, 
a  strengthened  political  partnership  and  increased 
cooperation in promising new areas, as well as to foster 
institutional capacity-building at the national, regional 
and continental levels.
We  view  the  Joint  Africa-EU  Strategy  adopted 
at  the  2007  Summit  as  a  strategic  framework  for  our 
steadily  expanding  cooperation  and  dialogue  with 
Africa.  The  partnership  is  guided  by  the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  unity  of  Africa,  the  interdependence 
between Africa and Europe, shared values and interests, 
and joint ownership and responsibilities. Those are also 
core principles of the African Union and NEPAD. 
We  welcome  the  progress  made  by  the  African 
Union  in  addressing  the  many  security  challenges  in 
the continent, both through African-led peace-support 
operations  and  the  establishment  of  its  Peace  and 
Security  Architecture.  The  EU  has  supported  those 
processes  with  more  than  €1  billion  since  2004.  We 
look  forward  to  replicating  that  success  story  in 
other  promising  areas  of  common  interest,  such  as 
governance, energy, climate and environment, science 
and  technology,  and  information  and  communications 
technologies.  We  will  therefore  continue  to  follow 
closely  the  African-owned  policy  frameworks  and 
to  support  their  implementation,  particularly  in  the 
context of the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership.
Africa continues to face a huge burden of potentially 
preventable  and  treatable  diseases,  which  cause  death 
and  untold  suffering  while  simultaneously  blocking 
economic  development  and  damaging  the  continent’s 
social fabric. We know that malaria — alongside other 
diseases such as HIV/AIDS — inf licts a heavy burden 
on  Africa,  particularly  on  women,  children  and  the 
most  vulnerable.  Significant  progress  has  been  made 
in the global fight against that disease in recent years, 
including  in  Africa.  Experience  has  shown  how  long-
lasting  insecticidal  mosquito  nets,  rapid  diagnostic 
testing, 
combination 
treatment  and  indoor  spraying  with  insecticides  can 
achieve  impressive  results  when  those  actions  are 
underpinned  by  strong  and  effective  health  systems. 
But  progress  will  be  rapidly  reversed  if  we  relax  our 
joint efforts. There is still much to do in order to drive 
down even further the number of cases and deaths due 
to malaria. That cannot be achieved without sustained 
investment and political will.
artemisinin-based 
effective 
As  the  world’s  largest  donor,  both  in  general 
and  in  the  health  sector  in  particular,  the  EU  and  its 
member  States  will  continue  to  lead  the  international 
community’s  collective  efforts 
target  malaria, 
always  seeking  the  most  efficient  modes  of  delivery 
and working through national Governments, the Global 
Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the 
United Nations system and other relevant organizations 
and  mechanisms, 
non-governmental 
organizations and the Roll Back Malaria Partnership.
including 
to 
Combating  diseases  such  as  malaria,  through 
strengthened  national  health  systems,  is,  in  our  view, 
one of the most effective ways to alleviate poverty and 
promote  equitable  and  sustainable  economic  growth. 
We  need  to  further  invest  in  workers  in  the  health 
professions  and  build  capacity  in  order  to  ensure 
equitable access to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and 
care,  which  will  help  us  accelerate  progress  towards 
the achievement of MDG 4 on child health, MDG 5 on 
maternal health and MDG 6 on combating H1V/AIDS, 
malaria and other diseases. The EU continues to work 
closely  with  African  Governments  to  enable  them  to 
fulfil their commitment to allocate 15 per cent of their 
State  budgets  to  health,  in  line  with  the  2001  Abuja 
Declaration.
Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  the  EU  and 
its  member  States  remain  committed  to  supporting 
Africa and Africans in their quest for peace, democratic 
governance, human rights and sustainable development.
14 
12 55213
I would like to remind the Assembly that we are not 
distributing copies of this statement, but it can be found 
on the EU delegation website.
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  In  today’s  debate  on  the 
“New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress in 
implementation and international support” and “Causes 
of  conf lict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa”, I am both pleased 
and honoured to continue the Caribbean Community’s 
tradition of expressed support for the African continent 
and its peoples in their effort as a collective to achieve 
sustainable  peace,  economic  growth  and  social  and 
political development.
The golden thread that joins the Caribbean to Africa 
is spun by ties of culture and history, shared struggles 
and  common  aspirations.  It  is  partly  in  recognition 
of  this  connection  that  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  was  privileged  to  participate  in,  and 
be  represented  at  the  level  of  Prime  Minister  at,  the 
first  Global  African  Diaspora  Summit,  held  last  May 
in  Johannesburg,  South  Africa.  The  Summit,  which 
was  held  under  the  theme  “Towards  the  realization  of 
a  united,  integrated  Africa  and  its  Diaspora”,  speaks 
to  the  mutual  affiliation  between  the  citizens  of  the 
continent  and  the  diaspora.  At  the  forum,  leaders 
and  representatives  of  Africa,  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  nations  and  other  members  of  the  diaspora 
gathered  together  to  recognize  and  celebrate  the 
diverse  and  rich  threads  of  the  diaspora,  which  are 
continuously interwoven into the single tapestry that is 
Africa. It is our hope as the Caribbean Community that 
the  momentum  and  expectations  of  the  Summit  will 
contribute to the emergence of a stronger Africa in the 
twenty-first century.
The Caribbean Community takes this opportunity to 
reaffirm its commitment to strengthening collaboration 
with  Africa  aimed  at  achieving  the  enhanced  levels 
of  development  envisioned  by  both  our  regions.  In 
pursuit of this goal, the Community’s membership has, 
at  a  policy  level,  embarked  on  practical  engagement 
with  the  African  region.  This  has  materialized  in  an 
increase of diplomatic representation in African States 
such  as  South  Africa  and  Nigeria  and  in  technical 
and  economic  cooperation.  It  is  also  witnessed  in 
the  manifest  commitment  to  greater  exchange  and 
partnership  among  the  secretariats  of  CARICOM,  the 
African  Union  and  the  South  African  Development 
Community.
A/67/PV.25
the 
Furthermore, 
ties  of  history  and  shared 
struggles  to  which  I  referred  give  a  special  quality 
to  the  collaboration  that  is  taking  place  between  the 
Caribbean Community and Africa in the establishment 
at  United  Nations  Headquarters  of  a  permanent 
memorial  in  honour  of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade,  as  an  acknowledgement  of  a 
dark period in our common history.
CARICOM delegations have paid special attention 
to  the  contents  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  in 
document A/67/204, which describes the current status 
of  the  effort  to  implement  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  to  incorporate 
its  priorities  into  the  regional  development  effort. 
Our  States  are  encouraged  by  the  story  of  promise 
and  of  hope  that  seems  to  emerge  from  the  pages  of 
this  document.  We  see  at  work  a  new  dynamic  that 
has  effectively  replaced  the  traditional  stereotypical 
image of Africa as a continent of poverty and despair. 
CARICOM  is  proud  to  see  the  level  of  dedication  and 
commitment of African countries in the implementation 
of their development agenda through economic reform, 
enhancing  governance  and  tackling  conf licts.  Our 
Community acknowledges and is heartened by Africa’s 
notable strides in the achievement of political stability, 
the  promotion  of  economic  and  social  development 
and  the  strengthening  of  mechanisms  for  inclusive 
participation.
But Africa’s story is not one of unqualified optimism. 
Achieving  sustainable  development  and  durable  peace 
remains a challenge for the States of the region, many 
of  which,  despite  significant  efforts,  are  likely  to  fall 
short  of  attaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
by the 2015 deadline. More concerted action is needed 
to  support  the  continent  in  its  effort  to  cope  with  the 
manifest challenges which persist. Greater attention is 
required  to  critical  areas  such  as  poverty  eradication, 
food  security,  health  care,  education,  governance, 
infrastructure,  and  information  and  communication 
technology in order to provide the economic, social and 
physical security that impacts the most vulnerable and 
highly dependent groups.
We  recognize  further  the  need  to  support  the 
framework  for  peacebuilding  and  conf lict  prevention 
and resolution in Africa in order to create the enabling 
environment  required  for  sustained,  inclusive  and 
equitable  economic  growth  and  for  strengthening 
democracy.  We  believe  that  there  must  be  continued 
efforts  to  buttress  the  African  States  in  their  resolve 
12 55213
15
A/67/PV.25
to  build  the  capacity  of  the  most  vulnerable  groups 
with  a  view  to  enhancing  human  capital,  reducing 
vulnerability,  promoting 
and  positively 
dealing  with  issues  that  engender  conf lict  and  stymie 
development.
equity 
The  persistent  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis  has  impacted  on  the  level  of  international 
cooperation  and  the  provision  of  aid  to  developing 
States such as those in Africa. We nonetheless call on 
the international community and financial institutions 
to  stay  the  course  and  help  strengthen  the  platform 
of  engagement  between  Africa  and  her  development 
partners.  While  we  acknowledge 
importance 
of  multilateral  mechanisms,  we  note  that  for  these 
partnerships  to  succeed,  the  mutual  interests  and 
concerns of all parties must be considered. At the same 
time,  as  developing  States  we  must  be  able  to  draw 
on  one  another’s  strengths.  It  is  in  this  context  that 
South-South  cooperation  and  partnerships  are  also  an 
essential  part  of  the  international  response,  offering 
viable opportunities to countries in their individual and 
collective  pursuit  of  sustained  economic  growth  and 
sustainable development.
the 
Where  climate  change  is  concerned,  while  at 
one  level  the  particular  geography  of  Africa,  on  the 
one  hand,  and  of    the  CARICOM  area,  on  the  other, 
makes for differing manifestations of the effects of this 
phenomenon,  there  is  another  level  at  which  we  are 
both  victims.  An  urgent,  comprehensive  and  effective 
global  response  is  needed  sooner  rather  than  later. 
We  therefore  call  for  a  speedy  delivery  of  fast-start 
financing and the fulfilment of pledged commitments.
The  Caribbean  Community  remains  encouraged 
by  Africa’s  vision  and  steadfastness  in  pursuing  a 
strategy  for  development,  as  manifested  in  NEPAD. 
We  commend  Africa  for  their  collective  drive  in 
commanding  ownership  of  their  development  process. 
Our  region  wishes  to  reaffirm  our  solidarity  with 
the  peoples  of  Africa  as  they  aspire  to  equitable 
development and durable peace. 
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Egypt 
is  speaking  today  as  a  country  that  was  among  the 
founding members of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). My statement also ref lects the 
position  of  the  Group  of  Arab  States,  which  Egypt  is 
highly honoured to be chairing this month.
At 
express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
the  outset, 
I  wish 
to 
(A/67/204  and  A/67/205).  I  also  wish  to  associate 
myself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  today  by  the 
representative  of  Cameroon  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group.
The adoption of NEPAD a decade ago underscored 
the resolve of African countries to collectively address 
the  scourges  of  poverty  and  marginalization  that  our 
continent  had  suffered  for  long  decades  through  a 
common vision based on African needs and priorities. 
As one of the five founding countries of NEPAD, Egypt 
is proud of the progress made in the main areas of that 
African  initiative’s  development  agenda,  in  particular 
agriculture  and  food  security, 
infrastructure  and 
regional  integration,  human  development,  information 
and communications technology and the empowerment 
of  women.  Moreover,  31  countries  have  now  joined 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  which  ref lects 
Africa’s commitment to promote good governance and 
respect for human rights.
Our meeting today takes place a few months after the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. 
Its  outcome  document  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
reiterates the international community’s commitment to 
fully implementing NEPAD and to tackling the specific 
development challenges facing Africa, in particular by 
fulfilling all the commitments made in various forums 
to  support  Africa’s  development.  Egypt  believes  that, 
in order to consolidate the progress towards achieving 
NEPAD’s  main  objectives,  African  Governments 
must  step  up  their  efforts  to  mobilize  more  domestic 
resources  to  finance  development  and  to  build  on  the 
sound  macroeconomic  policies  that  are  enabling  the 
continent’s countries to mitigate the adverse impacts of 
the world financial crisis on development achievements 
made  before  the  crisis.  African  countries  must  also 
strive  to  extend  social  partnerships  to  cover  larger 
segments of African populations.
Furthermore, 
achieving  NEPAD’s  objectives 
undoubtedly  requires  the  international  community  to 
create an environment conducive to supporting national 
efforts  through  fairer  trade  terms  and  by  alleviating 
the  debt  burden  on  African  countries,  including 
middle-income  countries,  by 
foreign 
direct  investment  inf lows  and  by  enhancing  Africa’s 
participation in international economic decision-making 
processes. In that regard, we look forward to the Group 
of Eight (G-8) resuming its engagement with NEPAD. 
We expect the incoming Chair of the Group, the United 
Kingdom,  to  extend  an  invitation  to  the  leaders  of 
increasing 
16 
12 55213
NEPAD’s  founding  countries  to  participate  in  a  joint 
annual  meeting  on  the  margins  of  the  G-8  summit, 
which was not convened this year. Egypt will continue 
to work with other African countries and with the Group 
of Arab States and development partners to strengthen 
international support to NEPAD, including through the 
United  Nations  and  other  international  organizations 
and forums.
Notwithstanding  the  significant  progress  made 
by  Africa  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security,  our 
continent  still  faces  genuine  challenges,  including 
unconstitutional  changes  of  Governments,  terrorism 
and  organized  crime,  as  well  as  piracy  and  armed 
robbery  at  sea.  African  countries  also  face  challenges 
in promoting respect for human rights and in addressing 
social  exclusion.  The  Group  of  Arab  States,  including 
Egypt, agrees with the Secretary-General that effective 
management by African countries of the diversity that 
characterizes their communities is crucial to achieving 
political stability and sustainable development.
The  convening  of  several  summits  and  high-level 
meetings on African issues on the margins of the high-
level  segment  of  the  sixty-seventh  General  Assembly 
session  underscores  the  depth  of  the  challenges  faced 
by  Africa  in  consolidating  peace  and  stability.  Those 
meetings  also  ref lect  the  importance  that  the  United 
Nations  attaches  to  overcoming  those  challenges. 
Egypt  and  the  Arab  Group  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
high-level  meetings  showed  progress  in  resolving  the 
outstanding issues between the Sudan and South Sudan 
and towards enhancing peace and stability in Somalia. 
Furthermore, 
international 
community’s  commitment  to  addressing  the  situation 
in the Sahel region, in eastern Democratic Republic of 
the Congo and in the Great Lakes region.
they  demonstrate 
the 
(AU)  and 
Such  meetings  are  a  testimony  to  the  growing 
partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union 
subregional  African 
organizations in addressing the challenges of peace and 
security  in  Africa,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions 
of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
As  a  part  of  its  efforts  to  coordinate  that  partnership, 
Egypt  will  host  the  third  High-level  Retreat  on  the 
Promotion  of  Peace,  Security  and  Stability  in  Africa 
during  the  first  week  of  November.  The  Retreat  will 
bring  together  United  Nations  special  representatives 
and  African  Union  envoys  to  Africa.  During  our 
presidency  of  the  AU  Peace  and  Security  Council 
last  month,  Egypt  organized  a  joint,  ministerial-level 
A/67/PV.25
meeting of the Council and the Council of the League 
of  Arab  States  in  order  to  coordinate  the  positions  of 
the  two  organizations  on  peace  and  security  issues  of 
common interest.
that 
Egypt  believes 
the  appointment  of  a 
Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Africa 
demonstrates  the  importance  that  the  United  Nations 
attaches  to  African  issues.  Egypt  is  proud  that  one 
of  our  eminent  Egyptians  has  been  appointed  by  the 
Secretary-General to occupy such an important position. 
We congratulate Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz on his 
assumption of that post. We underscore the importance 
of  allocating  adequate  resources  to  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Adviser  on  Africa  so  as  to  enable  it  to  fulfil 
its  mandate,  including  the  continuing  implementation 
of  the  monitoring  mechanism  to  review  commitments 
made  towards  Africa’s  development,  established  by 
resolution 66/293.
The international community has made significant 
progress in eliminating malaria in developing countries, 
in particular in Africa. We have been able to eradicate 
that  disease  in  nearly  half  the  countries  in  the  world. 
The international community must continue to provide 
its  technical  and  financial  support  for  anti-malaria 
programmes in African countries by improving access 
to  prevention  measures  and  proper  treatment  and  by 
supporting  our  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015,  in  particular  Goal  6,  on 
combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases.
Egypt 
reaffirms 
role  of 
the  vital 
initiatives 
regional 
and  subregional  organizations  and 
in 
strengthening  that  work.  We  underscore  the  need  for 
international  support  to  ensure  the  success  of  such 
projects,  in  particular  the  African  Leaders  Malaria 
Alliance.  That  initiative  was  established  to  support 
the  efforts  of  African  Governments,  but  further 
international support is needed, particularly in the areas 
of  prevention,  access  to  medicines  and  the  necessary 
diagnostic  techniques.  We  welcome  the  launching  of 
the African Union’s Roadmap for Shared Responsibility 
and  Global  Solidarity  for  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  during  the  high-level  segment  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  September.  The  Roadmap  reaffirms 
Africa’s  ownership  of  its  efforts  and  initiatives  to 
overcome the challenges that it still faces in the health 
care sector and with regard to the health of its people.
The success of our efforts to combat and eliminate 
malaria is directly linked to resolving the trade-related 
aspects  of  the  intellectual  property  rights  of  existing 
12 55213
17
A/67/PV.25
trade-related 
modern  malaria  medications  and  vaccines  currently 
available and those being developed. There is no doubt 
that  the  international  community  has  a  responsibility 
to  address  such 
issues.  Developed 
countries  should  assume  the  financial  burden  to  their 
pharmaceutical  companies  of  reduced 
intellectual 
property  rights  and  at  least  subsidize  the  royalties 
charged  by  their  companies  in  connection    with  the 
use of medicines in order to ensure the effectiveness of 
efforts to eliminate malaria and to thwart the risk of its 
continued proliferation.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Egypt  will  continue  to  work  with  Member  States,  as 
well as with development partners and sisterly African 
countries,  to  enhance  international  support  to  Africa 
and  to  reinstate  the  African  priorities  in  the  United 
Nations development agenda now and in the future, as 
well as in the context of the post-2015 programmes.
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like 
first to express my gratitude to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  reports  entitled  “New  Partnership 
for  African  Development:  tenth  consolidated  progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support” 
(A/67/204) and “Causes of conf lict and the promotion of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa” 
(A/67/205).
Both  reports  offer  us  very  useful  documentation 
that  sheds  light  on  the  constant  support  of  the  United 
Nations to Africa and various pan-African institutions, 
as  well  as  on  the  achievements  on  the  part  of 
organizations in the United Nations system with regard 
to  the  implementation  of  various  decisions  taken  by 
the  General  Assembly  and  other  outcome  documents 
of  international  conferences,  as  well  as  the  priorities 
decided  through  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  action  of  African 
partnerships in the process.
NEPAD,  as  is  well  known,  has  for  a  decade 
embodied  the  shared  vision  of  development  in  the 
African  continent  that  serves  as  the  foundation  for 
the  promotion  of  a  programme  of  regional  political 
and  economic  integration.  Based  on  that  platform 
and  the  commitment  of  the  African  continent,  the 
African  political  leadership  is  working  to  overcome 
the  challenges  that  have  inhibited  the  achievement  of 
peace  and  security,  regional  integration,  growth  and 
sustainable development, the eradication of poverty, and 
the integration of Africa in the process of globalization.
The  world  is  now  undergoing  major  upheavals, 
which  have  not  spared  Africa.  Africa  has  been  able 
to  overcome  the  burdens  of  its  history,  and  in  spite 
of adversity and obstacles, it has for the past 20 years 
achieved  significant  progress.  At  least  we  now  know 
that the African continent has all of the assets needed 
to make progress, and NEPAD has prepared it for that 
change.
In  spite  of 
the  global  economic  slowdown, 
exacerbated  by  the  negative  impact  of  the  debt  crisis, 
especially that caused by European sovereign debt, the 
strategic  framework  offered  by  NEPAD  has  enabled 
African  countries 
to  make  encouraging  progress 
in  various  areas  of  peace  and  security,  sustainable 
development,  new  technologies  of  information  and 
communications,  and  health  and  education.  Most 
notably, agriculture, considered to be the most important 
subsector  for  ensuring  rapid  economic  growth  in  the 
region,  has  shown  significant  progress,  thanks  to  the 
comprehensive  African  agricultural  development 
programme. It has also, in certain countries, improved 
the prospects for attaining the Millennium Development 
Goals.
The continued commitment to working towards the 
implementation of the sectoral priorities under NEPAD 
has  made  it  possible  to  achieve  significant  growth 
through regional and subregional initiatives, especially 
in  infrastructure.  With  that  in  mind,  the  Republic  of 
the Congo has devoted itself resolutely to a programme 
of  integrative  projects  in  line  with  NEPAD  priorities 
and has focused on those sectors that fuel development, 
namely, energy and transport.
The  only  means  of  ensuring  positive  results  and 
making  sure  that  they  have  lasting  effects  is  if  we 
promote  peace  and  security.  Promoting  peace  and 
security and reinforcing governance and institutions are 
some of the priorities in NEPAD. Thirty-one States have 
joined the peer review mechanism and have established 
self-assessment  rules  for  Africa  for  good  governance 
through  the  concepts  of  democracy  and  political 
governance, of governance and economic management, 
and  of  socioeconomic  development,  which  testifies  to 
their commitment to good governance and democracy. 
Aware  of  the  implications  of  good  governance  for 
development,  the  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  been 
involved  in  that  self-assessment  evaluation  process 
since its inception in 2003. Certainly major challenges 
remain, but the evolution towards good governance has 
18 
12 55213
now  become  an  irreversible  process  that  deserves  our 
continued support.
My delegation would also like to express our sincere 
appreciation  for  the  continued  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  for  Africa 
and  its  relevant  institutions  in  the  areas  of  peace  and 
security. While endorsing the recommendations of the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  causes  of  conf licts 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
stress  the  need  for  a  more  integrated  approach  with 
regard to the issues of peace, security and development, 
while appealing for a more thorough consideration that 
would seek other possible causes of conf lict and crises 
besides the poor management of diversity described in 
the report.
At  a  time  when  our  attention  is  turned  to  the 
elaboration of the post-2015 agenda and the sustainable 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  we  believe  that  it  is 
wise to stress the need to see both processes reinforce 
and  mutually  complement  each  other  in  a  coordinated 
and consistent manner, without abandoning the original 
development  goals  that  we  have  not  yet  managed  to 
achieve.  It  is  also  up  to  us  to  ensure  that,  in  doing 
so,  the  goals  that  we  establish  ref lect  the  priorities  of 
NEPAD  and  Africa.  We  are  certain  that  the  future  of 
Africa  means  that  African  States  must  take  control  of 
their own development. There can be no doubt, on the 
eve of the second decade of NEPAD, that Africa must 
consolidate its leadership in the implementation of the 
new agenda. There can be no other alternative. 
Nevertheless, 
the  profound  changes  we  are 
observing  on  the  African  continent  cannot  be  ignored 
by  our  partners,  which  must  accompany  Africa  in  an 
equitable partnership, because NEPAD also symbolizes 
a  new  kind  of  partnership  that  African  countries  have 
established  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  The  constraints 
we  are  facing,  individually  and  together,  are  multiple 
and  quite  complex.  We  are  not  always  capable  of 
overcoming them individually. Now is the time to recall 
the  numerous  unfulfilled  promises  and  commitments 
that have not yet been met by our development partners.
I  would  like  to  conclude  with  the  comment  that 
we  all  have  implied  today.  There  is  every  indication 
that Africa has become a key player in the twenty-first 
century  and  can  contribute  to  the  globalization  of  our 
world.  The  destiny  of  Africa  is  now  linked  to  that  of 
the rest of the world. That means that other regions and 
the entire international community must be involved in 
A/67/PV.25
specific  actions.  At  the  same  time,  Africa  must  boost 
its  capacity  to  persevere  in  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD in order to become a viable partner. That is a 
commitment that has never been refuted by the African 
leadership.
Ms.  Saban  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/67/204)  on 
the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the report entitled 
“2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing 
Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”  (A/66/169).  We 
appreciate the opportunity to address them together.
The  United  States  strongly  supports  Africa’s 
ongoing  efforts  to  generate  broad-based,  sustained 
and  equitable  economic  growth,  which  will  allow 
African countries to reduce poverty and integrate into 
the  global  economy.  The  United  States  has  supported 
and  will  continue  to  support  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development as the African States’ collective 
vision  and  strategic  framework  for  socioeconomic 
development in Africa.
NEPAD 
is  bearing  fruit.  As 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  notes,  there  has  been  real  progress 
by  African  States  and  their  partners,  as  evidenced  by 
increasing economic growth, exports and foreign direct 
investment.  According  to  World  Bank  data  released 
earlier  this  month,  sub-Saharan  Africa  is  expected 
to  grow  at  the  rate  of  4.8  per  cent  in  2012,  broadly 
unchanged  from  the  4.9  per  cent  growth  rate  in  2011 
and largely on track despite setbacks in other regions. 
African  exports  rebounded  well  in  the  first  quarter  of 
2012, growing at an annual pace of 32 per cent, up from 
the 11 per cent pace recorded in the last quarter of 2011. 
Moreover, a third of African economies will grow at or 
above 6 per cent, a longer-term trend based on continued 
strong  investor  interest  in  the  region,  with  $31  billion 
in foreign direct investment inf lows expected this year, 
despite difficult global conditions.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s  conclusion 
that creating the conditions for sustained and inclusive 
economic  growth  will  permit  African  populations  to 
benefit  more  broadly  from  better  incomes  and  living 
standards.  To  that  end,  the  United  States  supports 
NEPAD priorities for democratization, good governance 
and  economic  transparency,  as  well  as  its  activities  to 
enhance regional and national level infrastructure and 
food security and nutrition. So much will depend upon 
active public-private partnerships.
12 55213
19
A/67/PV.25
In  response  to  Africa’s  urgent  food  security  and 
nutrition challenges, the United States Feed the Future 
Initiative has pledged over $3.5 billion over a three-year 
period  to  assist  countries  in  southern,  eastern,  and 
western Africa to boost regional agricultural capacity, 
increase  private-sector  investment  in  agriculture  and 
integrate  national  and  regional  markets  to  improve 
efficiency and the ability to respond to crises.
and international support”, adopted earlier this year. It 
did  so  in  support  of  the  African-owned  and  African-
led  initiative,  especially  with  respect  to  the  important 
areas  of  agriculture,  infrastructure,  education,  health, 
the empowerment of women and the environment. We 
anticipate that a draft resolution will be submitted to the 
Assembly at the current session, and we look forward to 
keeping the focus on Africa and its special needs.
Another  initiative,  the  New  Alliance  for  Food 
Security and Nutrition, was launched by Group of Eight 
(G-8)  and  African  leaders  together  at  the  May  G-8 
Summit. It is a shared commitment to achieve sustained 
and  inclusive  agricultural  growth  in  Africa,  with  the 
goal of raising 50 million people out of poverty over the 
next  10  years.  To  that  end,  international  and  African 
private  companies  have  pledged  over  $3.5  billion  to 
agricultural and nutritional investments in Africa. More 
generally, we are encouraged by the efforts of African 
States to create an enabling business environment that 
includes  infrastructure  development.  That  is  critical 
for  attracting  domestic  investment  and  encouraging  a 
vibrant private sector. 
We 
commend 
the  NEPAD  Planning 
and 
Coordinating  Agency  for  its  efforts,  working  with 
the  African  Union,  the  United  Nations,  and  the 
African  Development  Bank,  to  drive  and  secure  such 
infrastructure improvements across the continent. Such 
activities  in  support  of  public-private  partnerships 
demonstrate  the  recognition  that  official  development 
assistance alone will not reap the desired results.
Public-private  partnerships  in  other  critical  areas 
in Africa, such as education, are also moving forward 
apace.  The  UNESCO  Global  Partnership  for  Girls’ 
and  Women’s  Education,  which  the  United  States 
co-launched, 
leverages  public-private  partnerships 
to  address  gender  disparities  and  to  provide  quality 
education for women and girls. It is showing success in 
Ethiopia, Tanzania, Kenya, Lesotho and Senegal.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s  conclusion 
that, in a resource-constrained environment, the several 
dozen United Nations entities and affiliates must work 
alongside  their  African  partners  to  make  efficient 
and  effective  use  of  resources,  in  step  with  national 
blueprints  and  regional  programmes  and  in  line  with 
NEPAD’s collective vision.
The  United  States 
the  consensus  on 
resolution  66/286,  entitled  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development:  progress  in  implementation 
joined 
Today, the Assembly is also addressing the agenda 
item entitled “2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”.  The 
United States is committed to addressing the prevention 
and  treatment  of  malaria  so  as  to  improve  the  health 
and  well-being  of  citizens  living  in  malaria-endemic 
settings,  particularly  young  children  and  pregnant 
women, those most affected by that devastating disease. 
We  further  recognize  the  negative  impact  of 
malaria  on  household  incomes  and  economic  and 
social  development  in  affected  countries.  Although 
the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  has  concluded,  the 
disease  persists.  We  must  continue  to  support  malaria 
prevention, treatment and control efforts.
President  Obama’s  Malaria  Initiative  and  our 
contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria are part of the critical effort. 
The  goal  of  the  Initiative  is  to  achieve  Africa-wide 
impact  by  halving  the  burden  of  malaria  in  70  per 
cent  of  the  at-risk  populations  in  sub-Saharan  Africa. 
Through  the  Initiative,  which  is  a  core  component  of 
President  Obama’s  Global  Health  Initiative,  we  are 
meeting  our  commitment  to  substantially  increase 
funding to combat malaria to $5 billion over six years, 
starting  in  2009.  Between  2009  and  2012,  the  United 
States more than doubled its funding to expand malaria 
prevention  and  treatment,  from  $300  million  to  over 
$600  million.  In  2011  alone,  the  President’s  Malaria 
Initiative programming protected 58 million individuals 
in 19 focus countries in Africa and the Greater Mekong 
subregion of South-East Asia.
The  Global  Fund  is  a  key  vehicle  for  sharing 
responsibility  and  the  world’s  largest  external  source 
of  finance  for  malaria-control  programmes,  providing 
three fourths of all international financing. The United 
States  is  the  largest  donor  to  the  Global  Fund,  having 
contributed  more  than  $7.1  billion  of  the  $19.1  billion 
in  public  and  private  funding  received  to  date.  The 
United States contribution to the Global Fund supports 
in-country  capacity-building  and  health 
system 
strengthening  as  well  as  direct  service  delivery.  We 
20 
12 55213
encourage  all  donor  and  recipient  nations  to  support 
global  malaria-control  efforts  through  appropriate 
financial 
political 
commitments.
contributions 
and 
stronger 
The  Assembly’s  most  recent  malaria  resolution, 
“Consolidating  gains  and  accelerating  efforts 
to 
control and eliminate malaria in developing countries, 
particularly  in  Africa,  by  2015”  (resolution  66/289), 
adopted  by  consensus  in  September,  acknowledged 
the  progress  made  in  parts  of  Africa  in  reversing  the 
malaria epidemic and the importance of strengthening 
health systems. It also recognized that increased global 
and  national  investments  in  malaria  control  have 
yielded significant results and that some countries were 
moving towards malaria’s elimination. 
However,  many  countries  still  have  high  burdens 
of  malaria,  requiring  a  rapid  increase  in  prevention 
and  control  efforts.  Towards  that  goal,  the  resolution 
called  on  Member  States,  particularly  malaria-
endemic countries, to strengthen national policies and 
operational  plans,  with  a  view  to  scaling  up  efforts  to 
achieve internationally agreed malaria targets for 2015. 
We  urge  affected  nations,  especially  those  in  Africa, 
to  increase  their  own  domestic  spending  on  malaria 
control as part of their overall plans to boost the share 
of their national budgets devoted to health.
Mr. Prosor (Israel): I speak to the Assembly today 
as  someone  who  had  the  privilege  of  spending  part 
of  my  childhood  growing  up  in  Africa,  while  Africa 
itself  was  growing  up.  My  understanding  of  Africa  is 
not  based  on  textbooks,  or  movies,  or  safaris.  I  speak 
from  personal  experience.  As  a  young  child  living  in 
what  was  then  Tanganyika,  I  remember  vividly  the 
excitement  that  went  along  with  independence  —  and 
the strong desire of the African people to take control 
of their destiny.
Africa  and  Israel  share  a  deep  connection  —  one 
that dates back thousands of years. Both the Ethiopian 
and  Jewish  traditions  tell  the  story  of  the  Queen  of 
Sheba. After hearing about the wisdom of Israel’s King 
Solomon, she embarked on a three-year journey to meet 
the only ruler at the time who could match her intellect, 
ambition and visionary leadership. The story was a sign 
of things to come. Today, the women of Africa carry the 
same determination and spirit. They are pioneers who 
spearhead the progress of their nations, from President 
Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf  in  Liberia  to  Foreign  Minister 
Louise  Mushikiwabo  in  Rwanda  to  the  late  Nobel 
laureate Wangari Maathai in Kenya.
A/67/PV.25
Strong, empowered women are a key component for 
the success for both the Israeli and African societies. As 
I think about it, it occurs to me that, if the top echelons 
of  Arab  Governments  were  filled  with  empowered 
women  with  the  same  frequency,  I  am  confident  that 
we would have a very different situation in the Middle 
East today. 
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  is 
an  initiative  led  by  Africans  for  Africa.  In  fact,  Israel 
has supported that approach for more than five decades. 
In  1958,  Golda  Meir,  then  serving  as  Israel’s  Foreign 
Minister, undertook a historic visit to the continent. At 
the time, Israel was in its infancy. We were a developing 
nation facing a range of overwhelming challenges. Yet 
she  saw  assistance  to  newly  independent  nations  of 
Africa  as  an  imperative.  She  sent  thousands  of  Israeli 
experts of every sort — scientists, doctors, engineers, 
teachers and irrigation experts — to work hand in hand 
with their African counterparts. 
Since that time, our development work in Africa has 
blossomed into an extensive programme of cooperation, 
covering  a  wide  range  of  sectors.  In  Ghana,  Israeli 
health  clinics  have  drastically  improved  maternal  and 
baby  health.  In  Senegal,  our  drip  irrigation  system  is 
increasing crop yields and enriching the lives of farmers. 
In Cameroon, Israeli doctors recently set up our eighth 
Eye  Camp,  performing  free  life-changing  surgery 
on  dozens  of  patients.  In  Kenya,  Israel  is  partnering 
with  Germany  to  improve  wastewater  treatment  and 
introduce  new  technology  into  the  tilapia  fisheries  of 
Lake Victoria. Those efforts are also benefiting people 
in Tanzania and Uganda.
The  medieval  Jewish  philosopher  Maimonides 
taught that we reach the highest level of righteousness 
when  we  give  other  people  the  means  to  sustain 
themselves.  That  principle  underlies  Israel’s  approach 
to  development  and  our  commitment  to  promoting 
entrepreneurship  in  all  corners  of  the  world.  We 
believe  that  that  is  one  of  the  greatest  tools  for  global 
development.  By  unlocking  minds,  we  can  inspire 
change.  As  President  Kagame  of  Rwanda  said, 
entrepreneurship is the surest way for a nation to meet 
its goals and develop prosperity for the greatest number 
of people. Building entrepreneurial cultures empowers 
people  with  the  skills  and  opportunities  to  solve 
problems around them, unleashing waves of innovative 
ideas and solutions.
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
is  about  supporting  Africa  as  its  people  turn  ideas 
12 55213
21
A/67/PV.25
into  action  and  problems  into  solutions.  As  someone 
who  had  the  opportunity  to  witness  at  first  hand  the 
resourcefulness  and  resolve  of  the  African  people, 
I  strongly  believe  that  every  African  problem  has  an 
African solution. An old African proverb says, “If you 
can talk you can sing, if you can walk you can dance”. 
The  vast  promise  of  Africa  is  clear.  And  to  be  true 
partners, the members of the international community 
must hear the distinctive sound of the African continent, 
feel its beat and move to its rhythm.
Mr.  Khan  (Indonesia):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to 
associate my delegation with the statement made by the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China. Indonesia would also like to commend the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  today’s  agenda 
items (A/67/204 and A/67/205).
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) is a ref lection of Africa’s renewed spirit for 
sustainable  development,  durable  peace  and  stability. 
Indonesia  therefore  welcomes  and  supports  NEPAD’s 
vision as an important progressive step for the continent 
and  the  world.  A  little  over  a  decade  after  NEPAD 
was  launched,  there  has  been  very  encouraging  and 
noteworthy progress by many African countries. Seeing 
that  progress  in  Africa  provides  increased  confidence 
and hope about what can be achieved there.
strengthen  capacity, 
Africa  has  taken  important  steps  to  practice 
good  governance, 
improve 
macroeconomic  frameworks  for  development  and 
build  infrastructure.  It  is  important  to  support  those 
homegrown  efforts  intended  to  expand  and  upgrade 
Africa’s linkages with the world economy and to create 
sustained  peace  on  the  continent.  Africa  will  also 
benefit  immeasurably  from  an  enabling  international 
environment conducive to its development. Ensuring an 
equitable global trading and financial system is central 
to creating such an environment.
Global  partnership  and  international  support  are 
imperative  to  NEPAD’s  success.  They  enable  Africa 
to maximize its potential for growth and development. 
Bilateral and triangular cooperation, as well as South-
South  cooperation,  are  important  components  of  the 
global  partnership.  We  should  not  forget  that  public-
private  and  private-private  partnerships  play  an 
important role in expanding Africa’s creative capacities. 
International  support  must  also  include  financing  for 
the  successful  implementation  of  various  domestic 
initiatives.
Other  mechanisms  can  contribute  to  Africa’s 
development  as  well.  With  that  in  mind,  Indonesia, 
through  the  New  Asian-African  Strategic  Partnership, 
has  built  a  solid  base  for  extensive  cooperation  with 
Africa,  especially  in  terms  of  trade  and  investment, 
tourism,  information  and  communications  technology 
and the environment. Indonesia has assisted in capacity-
building  in  the  field  of  agriculture  and  food  security. 
Appropriate  technology  has  been  transferred,  and  we 
are continuously working with a number of countries in 
Africa to develop rice fields with varieties that suit the 
continent’s weather and farming conditions.
The magnitude of Africa’s development challenges 
demands  ever-increasing  support  and  commitment. 
The  public  health  threat  from  malaria  and  other 
communicable diseases has not diminished. Eliminating 
malaria  in  most  developing  countries,  particularly  in 
Africa, remains a daunting challenge owing to limited 
capacities,  knowledge  and  resources.  The  transfer  of 
technology  and  capacity-building  need  therefore  to  be 
further developed and broadened, including by working 
within the South-South cooperation framework, among 
other models.
Managing  a  pandemic  disease  such  as  malaria 
takes  a  great  deal  of  resources.  Indonesia  recognizes 
that  global  action  is  indispensable  for  effectiveness 
at  the  national  level.  First,  it  is  important  that  any 
malaria eradication programme be community-driven. 
A  crucial  priority  is  to  raise  awareness  of  the  issues 
surrounding malaria among all key components of the 
community,  including  the  private  sector.  Secondly,  in 
order  to  achieve  optimum  results,  malaria  eradication 
programmes must have clear, precise and timely targets. 
Thirdly,  to  prevent  resistance  to  malaria,  anti-malaria 
drugs  should  be  used  correctly  under  the  supervision 
of  health-care  personnel.  Malaria  patients  must  have 
access to a high-quality diagnosis and early treatment. 
Safe,  high-quality  and  affordable  anti-malarial  drugs 
should  be  accessible  to  all  those  who  need  them. 
Last  but  not  least,  bilateral,  regional  and  multilateral 
partnerships, including public and private partnerships, 
should  be  encouraged  and  strengthened  to  achieve  a 
malaria-free world.
At  the  national  level,  my  country  has  taken  the 
necessary measures to achieve a malaria-free Indonesia 
by  2030.  On  the  occasion  of  the  commemoration  of 
World  Malaria  Day  in  April,  Indonesia  launched  the 
national Roll Back Malaria Partnership, which supports 
its national malaria strategic plan for 2012-2014.
22 
12 55213
A/67/PV.25
Indonesia is heartened to learn that the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  causes  of  conf lict  and  the 
promotion of durable peace and sustainable development 
in  Africa  (A/67/205)  provides  explicit  references  to 
the  nexus  between  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
It  also  stresses  the  attainment  of  durable  peace  in  the 
region  through  conf lict  prevention.  Indonesia  has 
been  not  only  a  steadfast  supporter  and  advocate  of 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  conf lict  prevention, 
but  also  a  key  contributor  to  various  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions. On post-conf lict peacebuilding 
issues, Indonesia has undertaken work both within and 
outside the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC). We have 
been implementing conf lict prevention at home, as well 
as in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations region.
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  report  contains 
information,  although  brief,  on  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on civilian capacity in the aftermath 
of  conf lict  (A/66/311),  which  is  being  used  as  a  basis 
to  develop  and  to  implement  capacity  development 
guidance tools in order to strengthen the linkage among 
humanitarian  intervention,  development  and  conf lict 
prevention.  Through  the  follow-up  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  a  valuable  platform  is  provided  for 
bringing  conf lict  analysis  and  peacebuilding  into 
regular development programming.
Indonesia stresses upholding the national ownership 
principle,  in  particular  in  the  PBC’s  engagement  with 
the six countries of its country configurations, many of 
which have progressed in their national peacebuilding. 
We commend their persistence in and focus on advancing 
peacebuilding  in  their  respective  countries,  working 
together  with  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
with  the  support  of  the  international  community  and 
the United Nations.
It  is  important  to  keep  in  mind  that  Africa  should 
and  must  be  given  a  chance  to  find  solutions  that 
specifically  address  its  own  situation.  We  believe 
that  the  nature  of  the  international  community’s 
development  support  to  Africa  must  be  adequate  and 
sustainable. Africa desires such a partnership in order 
to  overcome  its  historical  constraints  and  enable  it  to 
enjoy the freedoms of free nations.
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  Today’s  debate 
comes at a critical stage on the African continent. This 
year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  establishment 
of  the  African  Union  (AU),  and  the  first-ever  female 
Chair of the organization assumed office only two days 
ago.
Almost  half  a  century  ago,  the  Organization  of 
African Unity (OAU) was established with the primary 
mandate  to  liberate  the  continent  from  the  scourges 
of  colonization,  imperialism  and  apartheid  and  to 
promote  unity  and  solidarity  among  African  States. 
The  decolonization  and  liberation  of  Africa  did  not 
come  on  a  silver  platter  but  were  won  through  the 
gallant  struggles  of  ordinary  and  heroic  people  on  the 
continent.
With  many  countries  achieving 
independence 
and,  ultimately,  a  democratic  transition,  and  with  the 
ushering  in  of  a  new  era  in  South  Africa  in  1994,  it 
became  necessary  for  the  OAU  to  transform  and  to 
reclaim  its  rightful  place  in  global  affairs.  Therefore, 
with  the  formation  of  the  African  Union,  African 
countries began to look into new ways to deal with the 
complex challenges of poverty, underdevelopment and 
conf licts that faced the continent.
The  African  Union  set  up  the  African  Peace  and 
Security  Architecture,  aimed  at  engaging  in  conf lict 
prevention, resolution and post-conf lict reconstruction. 
The  Peace  and  Security  Architecture 
includes 
mechanisms  such  as  the  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
the continental early warning system, the Panel of the 
Wise  as  an  enhanced  mediation  capacity,  the  African 
Standby  Force  and  the  African  Union  Post-Conf lict 
Reconstruction  and  Development  Framework. 
It 
establishes a wide range of basic norms and values, all 
aimed at engaging in conf lict prevention and resolution 
and post-conf lict reconstruction.
On  the  economic  and  development  front,  it  was 
critical  that  the  continent  should  come  up  with  a  new 
approach to define its relationship with the world. In that 
context, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD) provided a new dynamism and vision to the 
African agenda for peace and development. It signified 
Africa’s  willingness,  capacity  and  determination 
to  assume  full  control  of  its  destiny.  As  an  African-
owned  and  African-driven  political,  economic  and 
social development blueprint for the continent’s future, 
NEPAD  was  welcomed  by  the  entire  international 
community,  including  the  General  Assembly.  For  that 
reason, continued concerted efforts should be made to 
ensure its successful implementation on the ground by 
both Africans and international partners.
My  delegation  would  like  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports 
on  issues  affecting  Africa  under  discussion  today, 
including  NEPAD  (A/67/204),  causes  of  conf lict 
12 55213
23
A/67/PV.25
in  Africa  (A/67/205)  and  malaria.  Furthermore,  we 
would  like  to  reiterate  the  significance  of  the  support 
to  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  We 
recognize  that  NEPAD  remains  the  critical  blueprint 
for Africa’s development.
For  their  part,  African  countries,  through  the  AU 
and  in  their  national  capacities,  have  made  efforts  to 
ensure  that  the  necessary  conducive  environment 
for  the  success  of  NEPAD  exists.  On  the  political 
front,  African  countries  have  embraced  the  African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  a  positive  and  innovative 
approach  to  the  promotion  of  good  governance.  In 
that context, 30 African countries have acceded to the 
Mechanism, of which 12 have undergone peer reviews.
Several  United  Nations  reports  have  highlighted 
the  fact  that  the  majority  of  sub-Saharan  countries 
are  unlikely  to  achieve  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by 
the  2015  deadline.  The 
international  community  needs  to  work  with  African 
countries  to  ensure  that  concerted  efforts  are  made 
to  achieve  those  Goals.  In  that  context,  the  support  of 
international  partners  for  NEPAD  is  an  integral  part 
of  that  success.  Notwithstanding  the  many  challenges 
facing countries as a result of the recent global financial 
and economic downturn, international partners should 
continue to work with African countries to ensure that 
the  commitments  made  to  NEPAD  are  translated  into 
results on the ground.
In  taking  stock  of  the  level  and  rate  of  success 
of  cooperation  within  NEPAD,  we  have  no  doubt 
that  NEPAD  has  made  an  important  contribution 
to  accelerating  the  pace  of  development  in  African 
countries  and  to  promoting  their  participation  in  and 
enjoyment of the benefits of the international economic 
system. With the help of NEPAD, economies in Africa 
have  provided  opportunities  for  trade  and  investment 
with  each  other  and  have  played  an  important  role  in 
sharing  their  experience  and  expertise.  They  stand 
ready  to  help  one  another  in  the  attainment  of  the 
international  development  goals,  particularly 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  so  as  to  ensure 
sustainable development for all countries.
South  Africa  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  call  to 
strengthen  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  system  in 
furthering  NEPAD  cooperation.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
critical that the members of the international community 
work  together  so  as  to  enhance  the  NEPAD  vision  for 
Africa’s development. We also strongly believe that the 
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  has  a  special 
and critical role to play in that regard.
In  February  2010,  the  fourteenth  ordinary  session 
of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of 
the  African  Union  established  the  NEPAD  Planning 
and  Coordinating  Agency  as  a  technical  body  of  the 
African  Union  and  fully  integrated  NEPAD  into  the 
structures and processes of the AU. NEPAD has entered 
its  implementation  phase.  NEPAD  implementation 
is  also  critical  in  the  context  of  following  up  the 
outcome  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
and  considering  its  concerns,  including  droughts, 
desertification  and  land  degradation.  Our  continent’s 
development  priorities,  embedded  in  NEPAD,  need  to 
be incorporated into the new development agenda.
The  sixteenth  session  of 
the  African  Union 
Assembly  endorsed  seven  regional 
infrastructure 
projects, covering the five AU regions, all  championed 
by  Heads  of  State  and  Government  under 
the 
Presidential  Infrastructure  Champion  Initiative.  It  is 
the  intention  of  the  Initiative  to  provide  leadership  to 
unlock strategic and catalytic interventions in support 
of physical interconnectivity among the various regions 
and  States  in  Africa.  The  interventions  will  facilitate 
the  free  movement  of  goods,  services,  people,  factors 
of  production  and  investment,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
integration  of  the  continent  into  the  global  economic 
zone. 
its  part, 
Initiative.  For 
Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa,  is  the  Chair  of  the  Presidential  Infrastructure 
Champion 
the  United 
Nations  should  continue  to  support  efforts  to  boost 
intra-African  trade,  by  assisting  African  countries 
and  regional  economic  communities  to  move  forward 
in  implementing  the  continent’s  regional  integration 
agenda  and  to  fast-track  the  establishment  of  the  pan-
African  free  trade  zone.  Such  support  could  cover  the 
provision of technical analysis, research and capacity-
building  in  harmonizing  regulations  and  mobilizing 
support and resources in the areas of trade facilitation, 
transport and infrastructure.
My delegation concurs with the Secretary-General’s 
report  in  that  the  development  partners  should  fulfil 
the existing commitments to increase the quantity and 
effectiveness of development assistance.
We  salute  the  Secretary-General  in  selecting 
malaria  as  one  of  the  priorities  of  his  second  mandate 
24 
12 55213
in  office.  Let  me  commend  the  work  done  by  the 
Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership;  the  African  Leaders 
Malaria  Alliance;  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  Malaria;  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria;  World  Bank;  the  World 
Health  Organization;  the  United  Nations  Children’s 
Fund; and other partners, in their assistance in the fight 
against malaria.
We  are  committed  to  increasing  our  domestic 
investment to combat malaria and support subregional 
economic  developmental  blocks  in  order  to  improve 
coordination and collaboration with our neighbours to 
eliminate  malaria  across  our  borders.  In  that  regard, 
we  call  on  international  partners  to  complement  our 
national and subregional resources in the fight against 
malaria and to assist us in building capacity to sustain 
the gains we have made thus far.
To  sustain  the  momentum  that  has  been  achieved, 
we need to accelerate cross-border malaria intervention, 
enhance  active  case-based  malaria  surveillance  to 
screen  populations  harbouring  malaria  parasites  and 
provide treatment to cure and stop further transmission. 
In addition, we need to expand our research on malaria 
by focusing on the development of new drugs, such as 
the  recently  announced  compound  under  development 
at the University of Cape Town in South Africa.
South  Africa  continues  to  support  the  use  of 
DDT  for  indoor  residual  spraying  as  it  has  proved  to 
be  effective  in  many  areas  and  has  contributed  to  a 
huge  decline  in  malaria  cases  in  the  country.  Those 
countries that choose to use it are directly contributing 
to  addressing  the  cause  and  not  only  dealing  with  the 
effect  of  the  disease.  Therefore,  until  such  time  as  an 
effective and affordable alternative to DDT is available 
to developing countries, the use of residual spraying to 
eradicate the disease should be allowed.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly resolution 2011 (XX) of 11 October 1965 and 
decision  56/475  of  15  August  2002,  I  now  call  on  the 
observer for the African Union.
for  Africa’s  Development 
Mr.  Mayaki  (African  Union):  On  behalf  of 
the  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  of  the  New 
Partnership 
(NEPAD), 
allow  me  first  to  convey  my  warmest  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  as  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
I  trust  that  his  experience  and  energy  will  contribute 
to the promotion of meaningful global cooperation and 
A/67/PV.25
continuing support of the United Nations system in the 
implementation of the African agenda.
The  General  Assembly  debate  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  to  Africa’s  development,  particularly  in 
bringing about the settlement of international disputes 
by peaceful means. In contributing to the debate, I recall 
that during the last decade, NEPAD has played a critical 
role  in  promoting  democracy  and  good  governance 
through  its  f lagship  programme,  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism.  That  monitoring  mechanism  is 
unique in the world for advancing good governance and 
best practices among political peers.
Since  its  inception,  NEPAD  has  inspired  sector 
policy  frameworks  and  programmes  to  guide  African 
renewal.  In  particular,  the  African  Union  has  adopted 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme 
for 
Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA), thereby 
helping to change the livelihoods of African people.
the  Programme 
(CAADP)  and 
sustainable 
growth 
is  key 
and 
Infrastructure  development 
for 
the 
continent’s 
regional 
integration.  In  demonstrating  political  commitment, 
African  leaders  recently  adopted  the  Presidential 
Infrastructure  Champion  Initiative  to  fast-track  the 
implementation  of  seven  regional  projects.  The  set 
targets  of  PIDA  are  to  develop  37,000  kilometres  of 
highways,  30,000  kilometres  of  railways  and  16,000 
kilometres of interconnected power lines, among other 
things, by 2040. The expected impact is to facilitate the 
movement  of  persons,  goods  and  services  throughout 
the  continent.  To  that  effect,  the  NEPAD  Agency,  as 
the  executing  entity  of  PIDA,  is  working  towards  the 
facilitation and coordination of development corridors, 
the promotion of sustainable energy and the expansion 
of Africa’s digital economy.
Agriculture and food security are a key focus area 
for NEPAD. Through CAADP, which will celebrate 10 
years  in  2013,  we  are  promoting  investment  planning 
in  agriculture  for  increased  public-  and  private-sector 
participation.  We  are  also  building  the  necessary 
partnership  support  through  the  Scaling  Up  Nutrition 
initiative  and  the  Group  of  Eight’s  New  Alliance  for 
Nutrition  and  Food  Security,  to  achieve  Millennium 
Development Goal 1. To attain our targets, we actively 
collaborate  with  regional  economic  communities, 
development banks, civil society and the private sector 
to implement NEPAD programmes.
12 55213
25
A/67/PV.25
Africa is determined to maintain its macroeconomic 
reforms  and  growth  path.  Indeed,  Africa  has  grown 
impressively over the last 10 years, registering growth 
rates of over 5 per cent per year. The continent continues 
to exceed the global growth average, thereby exhibiting 
a  favourable  economic  trend.  For  Africa  to  sustain 
its  transformation  agenda,  it  is  committed  to  moving 
towards double-digit growth that is both inclusive and 
equitable.
One  of  the  most  critical  factors  in  the  changing 
development  landscape  is  the  primacy  of  domestic 
resources  for  our  development.  In  that  context,  our 
leaders  emphasized  that  mobilization  of  domestic 
resources  by  African  Governments  is  critical  for  the 
implementation  of  regional  projects  that  have  been 
prioritized  through  NEPAD.  In  that  respect,  NEPAD 
is  collaborating  with  the  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission  for  Africa  (UNECA),  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme and the African Development 
Bank  to  come  up  with  appropriate  mechanisms  for 
domestic resource mobilization and utilization. We are 
also engaging stakeholders on reducing illicit financial 
f lows,  which  constitute  a  huge  drain  on  Africa’s 
resources.
In  the  recent  past,  Africa  has  been  reducing 
barriers  that  hinder  regional  integration,  particularly 
for  intra-African  trade.  Today,  the  continent  is  more 
private-sector and investment friendly. In 2010, the total 
foreign  direct  investment  was  more  than  $55  billion, 
which  is  five  times  larger  than  a  decade  ago.  In  2011, 
private equity firms raised $1.5 billion for projects on 
the continent. A key component of that transformation 
is  the  fact  that  the  African  private  sector  itself  is 
investing more in the continent.
Through 
the  African  Union, 
the  continent 
actively  engaged  with  the  international  community 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20). We applaud the adoption of the 
Rio+20  outcome  document  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
and  its  affirmation  of  NEPAD  as  Africa’s  sustainable 
development  framework.  We  further  welcome  the 
call  on  the  international  community  to  enhance  its 
support  and  to  fulfil  its  commitments  to  advancing 
action  in  areas  that  are  critical  to  Africa’s  sustainable 
development.
We hope to see the implementation of the framework 
for  action,  with  the  use  of  regional  institutions  as 
follow-up  mechanisms.  We  affirm  that  NEPAD  is 
ready to work with the United Nations system and the 
international  community  as  a  whole  to  improve  the 
coherence and coordination of sustainable development 
programmes and policies. The participation of women, 
youth  and  other  stakeholder  groups  in  that  process  is 
also critical.
Today, as we observe the International Day for the 
Eradication  of  Poverty,  NEPAD  reiterates  its  sound 
commitment  to  combating  poverty  in  Africa.  Overall, 
African  countries  have  made  significant  progress 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, 
even  though  not  all  targets  will  be  met  by  2015.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  must  take  into  account 
the sustainability of Africa’s growth and development. 
As  the  African  Union  f lagship  programme,  NEPAD 
will  therefore  promote  sustainable  development  goals 
that  combine  economic,  social  and  environmental 
solutions.  In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  sustainable 
development goals will unleash the potential for Africa 
to achieve its ambition as a pillar of global growth.
Before concluding, I wish to commend the quality 
of  our  relationship  with  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser  on  Africa,  under  the  able  leadership  of 
Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz.  It  is  essential  that  the 
Office  continue  to  play  its  lead  role  in  supporting  the 
implementation of NEPAD through the United Nations 
global platform. Equally, UNECA, the United Nations 
Development  Programme  and  other  United  Nations 
agencies  have  been  critical  in  supporting  NEPAD 
over  the  years.  We  will  continue  to  work  towards 
consolidating  our  partnership  with  the  international 
community, represented here at the United Nations.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  make  the 
following  announcements  concerning  the  work  of  the 
plenary. 
The  consideration  of  agenda 
item  38,  “The 
situation  in  Afghanistan”,  originally  scheduled  for 
Thursday, 8 November, has been postponed to Tuesday, 
27 November. 
In addition, the joint debate on the following items, 
originally  scheduled  for  Tuesday,  27  November,  has 
been moved to Wednesday, 28 November: agenda item 
14, “Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related  fields”;  agenda  item  113,  “Follow-up  to  the 
26 
12 55213
outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit”;  sub-item  (a)  of 
agenda item 118, “Strengthening of the United Nations 
system”, and sub-item (b) of agenda item 118, “Central 
role of the United Nations system in global governance”; 
and agenda item 119, “United Nations reform: measures 
and proposals”. 
Finally,  agenda  item  117,  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters”,  originally 
scheduled  for  Monday,  3  December,  will  now  be 
considered on Thursday, 15 November in a joint debate 
with agenda item 30, “Report of the Security Council”.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
A/67/PV.25
12 55213
27
