United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
56th plenary meeting
Friday, 14 December 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.56
Ofﬁ cial Records
President:
Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Reports of the Sixth Committee
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will 
consider the reports of the Sixth Committee on agenda 
items 76 to 84, 105, 116, 131 and 165 to 170. 
I  request  the  Rapporteur  of  the  Sixth  Committee, 
Mr.  Pham  Quang  Hieu  of  Viet  Nam,  to  introduce  the 
reports of the Committee in one intervention.
Mr.  Pham  (Viet  Nam),  Rapporteur  of  the  Sixth 
Committee: I have the honour to introduce the reports 
of  the  Sixth  Committee  on  its  work  during  the  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly. The Assembly 
allocated  to  the  Committee  17  substantive  and  three 
procedural  agenda  items.  Except  for  the  item  relating 
to  the  election  of  officers,  all  these  agenda  items  fall 
under  three  headings,  corresponding  to  the  priorities 
of the Organization, namely, “Promotion of justice and 
international law”; “Drug control, crime prevention and 
combating international terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations”;  and  “Organizational,  administrative 
and other matters”.
I will introduce the reports of the Sixth Committee 
on  the  various  items  in  the  order  in  which  they  fall 
under these three headings.
I shall begin with the first heading, “Promotion of 
justice  and  international  law”,  under  which  the  Sixth 
Committee considered nine agenda items and adopted 
11 draft resolutions.
The  Sixth  Committee  considered  agenda  item  76, 
“Criminal  accountability  of  United  Nations  officials 
and  experts  on  mission”.  The  report  on  this  agenda 
item is contained in document A/67/464, and the draft 
resolution  recommended  to  the  General  Assembly  for 
adoption is reproduced in paragraph 9 thereof. The draft 
resolution  confirms  the  various  measures,  adopted  in 
previous  resolutions,  aimed  at  ensuring  the  criminal 
accountability of United Nations officials and experts 
on mission, and preserves the reporting mechanisms set 
forth in those resolutions.
Under  the  terms  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
Assembly would also include the item in the provisional 
agenda of the sixty-eighth session, while deciding that 
the  consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Group  of  Legal 
Experts,  in  particular  its  legal  aspects,  would  be 
continued at the seventieth session in the context of a 
working group of the Sixth Committee.
The report on agenda item 77, “Report of the United 
Nations  Commission  on  International  Trade  Law  on 
the  work  of  its  forty-fifth  session”,  is  contained  in 
document A/67/465. The Sixth Committee recommends 
two  draft  resolutions  for  adoption  by  the  General 
Assembly,  which  are  reproduced  in  the  report.  Under 
the  terms  of  draft  resolution  I,  the  General  Assembly 
would  commend  the  Commission  for  finalization  and 
adoption of a Guide to Enactment of the United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law Model Law on 
Public Procurement and its recommendations to assist 
arbiter  institutions  and  other  interested  bodies  with 
regard to arbitration under the Commission’s Arbitration 
Rules as revised in 2010. Draft resolution II pertains to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64939 (E)
*1264939*
A/67/PV.56
these recommendations, of which the Assembly would 
recommend the use in the settlement of disputes arising 
in the context of international commercial arbitration.
The  report  on  agenda  item  78,  “United  Nations 
Programme  of  Assistance  in  the  Teaching,  Study, 
Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International 
Law”,  is  to  be  found  in  document  A/67/466,  and  the 
draft resolution recommended to the General Assembly 
for adoption is reproduced in paragraph 7 thereof. Under 
the terms of the draft resolution, the General Assembly 
would reaffirm that the Programme constitutes a core 
activity of the United Nations and that there is an increase 
in demand for international law training, which creates 
new  challenges  for  the  Programme.  The  Assembly 
would authorize the Secretary-General to carry out the 
activities  specified  in  his  reports  on  the  Programme 
in  2013;  reiterate  its  request  to  the  Secretary-General 
to  provide  to  the  programme  budget  for  2014-2015 
the  resources  necessary  for  the  Programme  to  ensure 
its  continued  effectiveness  and  further  development; 
and  to  decide  to  consider  the  viability  of  voluntary 
contributions as a sustainable method for funding the 
United Nations Regional Courses in International Law 
and the Audiovisual Library of International Law and 
the need to provide a more reliable funding method.
The  report  on  agenda  item  79,  “Report  of  the 
International  Law  Commission  on  the  work  of  its 
sixty-third  and  sixty-fourth  sessions”,  is  contained 
in  document  A/67/467,  and 
the  draft  resolution 
recommended to the General Assembly for adoption is 
reproduced in paragraph 8 of the report. Under the draft 
resolution, the General Assembly would, among other 
things, express its appreciation to the Commission for 
the  work  accomplished  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  in 
particular for the completion of the first reading of the 
draft articles on the expulsion of aliens. The Assembly 
would also decide that the consideration of chapter IV 
of the report of the International Law Commission on 
the work of its sixty-third session (A/66/10, paragraphs 
51  to  76,  and  A/66/10/Add.1),  dealing  with  the  topic 
“Reservations  to  treaties”,  would  be  continued  at  the 
sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  during 
the  consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Commission  on 
the  work  of  its  sixty-fifth  session.  Furthermore,  the 
Assembly  would  take  note  with  appreciation  of  the 
inclusion by the Commission of two new topics in its 
programme  of  work,  namely,  the  topics  “Formation 
and  evidence  of  customary  international  law”  and 
“Provisional  application  of  treaties”,  and  encourage 
the  Commission  to  continue  the  examination  of  the 
topics  that  are  in  its  long-term  programme  of  work; 
invite  the  Commission  to  continue  to  give  priority  to 
the  topics  “Immunity  of  State  officials  from  foreign 
criminal jurisdiction” and “The obligation to extradite 
or prosecute (aut dedere aut judicare)”; and take note 
of the tentative work programme of the Commission for 
the remainder of the five-year period.
The  Sixth  Committee  also  considered  agenda 
item  80,  “Status  of  the  Protocols  Additional  to  the 
Geneva  Conventions  of  1949  and  relating  to  the 
protection  of  victims  of  armed  conflicts”.  The  report 
on this agenda item is contained in document A/67/468, 
and  the  draft  resolution  recommended  to  the  General 
Assembly  for  adoption  is  reproduced  in  paragraph  8 
thereof.
The  report  on  agenda  item  81,  “Consideration  of 
effective measures to enhance the protection, security 
and  safety  of  diplomatic  and  consular  missions  and 
representatives”,  is  contained  in  document  A/67/469, 
and  the  draft  resolution  recommended  to  the  General 
Assembly for adoption is reproduced in paragraph 7 of 
the report.
The  report  on  agenda  item  82,  “Report  of  the 
Special  Committee  on  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  on  the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the 
Organization”,  is  contained  in  document  A/67/470. 
The two draft resolutions recommended to the General 
Assembly for adoption appear in paragraph 12 thereof. 
Under  the  terms  of  draft  resolution  I,  the  Assembly 
would  encourage  all  Member  States  to  commemorate 
the thirtieth anniversary of the adoption of the Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes.  Under  draft  resolution  II,  the  Assembly 
would  request  the  Special  Committee  to  continue  its 
consideration of all proposals concerning the question 
of the maintenance of international peace and security 
and  of  the  questions  of  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations related 
to assistance to third States affected by the application 
of sanctions, and to continue to consider, on a priority 
basis,  ways  and  means  of  improving  the  Committee’s 
working methods and enhancing its efficiency.
The  report  on  agenda  item  83,  “The  rule  of  law 
at  the  national  and  international  levels”,  is  contained 
in  document  A/67/471.  Under  the  terms  of  the  draft 
resolution  recommended  to  the  General  Assembly 
for  adoption,  the  Assembly  would,  inter  alia,  recall 
its  high-level  meeting  held  on  the  topic  during  the 
high-level  segment  of  the  present  session,  and  the 
2 
12-64939
Declaration  adopted  at  that  meeting.  The  Assembly 
would also decide to include the item in the provisional 
agenda of its sixty-eighth session and to invite Member 
States to focus their comments in the upcoming Sixth 
Committee debates on the subtopics “The rule of law 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes” 
at the sixty-eighth session and “Sharing States’ national 
practices  in  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  through 
access to justice” at the sixty-ninth session.
recommended 
The  report  on  agenda  item  84,  “The  scope  and 
application  of  the  principle  of  universal  jurisdiction”, 
is  contained  in  document  A/67/472.  Under  the  draft 
resolution 
is 
reproduced  in  paragraph  9  of  the  report,  the  General 
Assembly would decide that the Sixth Committee shall 
continue  its  consideration  of  the  matter  next  year, 
including  in  the  context  of  a  working  group  of  the 
Sixth  Committee,  which  would  undertake  a  thorough 
discussion of the item.
for  adoption,  which 
The Sixth Committee adopted the draft resolutions 
under the first heading without a vote, and it is my hope 
that the General Assembly will be in a position to do 
the same.
I shall now turn to the heading “Drug control, crime 
prevention and combating international terrorism in all 
its forms and manifestations”. 
The  Sixth  Committee  considered  agenda  item 
105,  “Measures  to  eliminate  international  terrorism”, 
under  this  heading.  The  relevant  report  is  contained 
in  document  A/67/473,  and 
the  draft  resolution 
recommended  to  the  General  Assembly  for  adoption 
is  reproduced  in  paragraph  10  thereof.  Should  the 
Assembly  adopt  the  draft  resolution,  it  would,  inter 
alia,  decide  that  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  established 
by  General  Assembly  resolution  51/210  shall  meet 
from  8  to  12  April  2013  in  order  to,  on  an  expedited 
basis,  continue  to  elaborate  the  draft  comprehensive 
convention  on  international  terrorism  and  to  discuss 
the  item  included  in  its  agenda  by  resolution  54/110 
concerning  the  question  of  convening  a  high-level 
conference  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations. 
Future  meetings  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  would  be 
decided  upon  subject  to  substantive  progress  in  its 
work. 
The Sixth Committee adopted the draft resolution 
without a vote, and it is my hope that the Assembly will 
be  able  to  do  the  same.  Following  previous  practice, 
when  an  Ad  Hoc  Committee  is  anticipated  to  report 
A/67/PV.56
back  during  a  session  in  the  event  of  progress,  the 
present  item  will  remain  open  in  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly.
Under the third and final heading, “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”, the Sixth Committee 
considered  seven  substantive  and  two  procedural 
items.  It  should  be  recalled  that  agenda  item  141, 
“Administration of justice at the United Nations”, was 
allocated both to the Fifth and Sixth Committees. The 
views of the Sixth Committee on this item are reflected 
in  a  letter,  dated  23  October  2012,  addressed  by  the 
Chairman  of  the  Sixth  Committee  to  the  President  of 
the General Assembly. That letter appears as an annex 
to document A/C.5/67/9.
The  report  on  agenda  item  165,  “Report  of  the 
Committee  on  Relations  with  the  Host  Country”, 
is  contained  in  document  A/67/477,  and  the  draft 
resolution  recommended  to  the  General  Assembly  for 
adoption appears in paragraph 8 of the report.
Furthermore, the Sixth Committee considered five 
requests for observer status in the General Assembly. It 
recommended that the General Assembly grant observer 
status to the Andean Development Corporation, under 
agenda item 168, and to the European Organization for 
Nuclear Research, under agenda item 170.
that 
The  Sixth  Committee  recommended 
the 
General  Assembly  defer  decisions  on  the  requests  for 
observer  status  in  the  Assembly  for  the  Cooperation 
Council of Turkic-speaking States, under agenda item 
166;  the  International  Conference  of  Asian  Political 
Parties,  under  agenda  item  167;  and  the  International 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  under  agenda  item  169,  to 
the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  Assembly.  The  reports 
concerning  each  of  the  requests  for  observer  status 
are found in documents A/67/480, A/67/556, A/67/478, 
A/67/479  and  A/67/481,  respectively.  The  relevant 
draft resolutions and draft decisions are reproduced in 
paragraph 7 of documents A/67/480 and A/67/556, and 
in  paragraph  8  of  documents  A/67/478,  A/67/479  and 
A/67/481.
Under  the  third  heading,  the  Sixth  Committee 
also considered two procedural items, namely, agenda 
item  116,  “Revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly”,  and  agenda 
item  131,  “Programme 
planning”. The report under agenda item 116, containing 
the  provisional  programme  of  work  of  the  Sixth 
Committee  at  the  sixty-eighth  session,  is  to  be  found 
in document A/67/474. The draft decision by which the 
12-64939
3
A/67/PV.56
General  Assembly  would  take  note  of  the  provisional 
programme  of  work  is  reproduced  in  paragraph  7  of 
the report. The report on agenda item 131 is contained 
in  document  A/67/475,  and  no  further  action  by  the 
General Assembly is recommended.
The  draft  resolutions  and  draft  decisions  relating 
to the agenda items under this third heading were also 
adopted  by  the  Sixth  Committee  without  a  vote,  and 
it  is  my  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will  be  in  a 
position to do the same.
Finally,  I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  there 
is  no  report  in  respect  of  agenda  item  5,  “Election  of 
the officers of the Main Committees”. Consistent with 
previous  practice,  the  election  of  the  officers  of  the 
Sixth  Committee  for  the  sixty-eighth  session  will  be 
taken  up  at  a  later  stage  in  the  course  of  the  current 
session.
This  concludes  my  introduction  of  the  reports  of 
the  Sixth  Committee.  Let  me  take  this  opportunity 
to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Chairman  of  the  Sixth 
Committee,  Mr.  Yuriy  Sergeyev  of  Ukraine,  for  his 
dedicated  work  and  for  the  commendable  leadership 
that  he  provided  to  the  Committee,  and  the  other 
members of the Bureau — Mr. Martin Huth of Germany, 
Mr. Gonzalo Bonifaz of Peru and Mr. Ismail Chekkori 
of Morocco — for their cooperation. I also wish to thank 
all  representatives  and  colleagues  for  their  valuable 
contributions  to  the  success  of  the  session.  Finally,  I 
would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to 
the secretariat of the Sixth Committee, backed by the 
Codification  Division  of  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs, 
for  its  efficient  and  valuable  support  and  for  the 
competent and professional advice provided throughout 
the session.
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66 
of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General 
Assembly decides not to discuss the reports of the Sixth 
Committee that are before it today.
It was so decided.
The President: Statements will therefore be limited 
to  explanations  of  vote.  The  positions  of  delegations 
regarding the recommendations of the Sixth Committee 
have been made clear in the Committee and are reflected 
in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of 
decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that: 
“When the same draft resolution is considered 
in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary  meeting,  a 
delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its 
vote only once, that is, either in the Committee or 
in  plenary  meeting,  unless  that  delegation’s  vote 
in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the 
Committee.” 
May I also remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
to 
the 
recommendations contained in the reports of the Sixth 
Committee,  I  should  like  to  advise  representatives 
that  we  are  going  to  proceed  to  take  decisions  in  the 
same manner as was done in the Committee, unless the 
Secretariat  is  notified  otherwise  in  advance.  I  should 
therefore hope that we may proceed to adopt without a 
vote those recommendations that were adopted without 
a vote in the Committee.
Before  we  begin 
take  action  on 
Members  are  reminded  that  additional  sponsors 
are no longer accepted now that draft resolutions and 
decisions  have  been  adopted  by  the  Committee.  Any 
clarification about sponsorship should be addressed to 
the Secretary of the Committee.
Agenda item 76
Criminal accountability of United Nations officials 
and experts on mission
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/464)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 9 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/88).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 76?
It was so decided.
4 
12-64939
Agenda item 77
Report of the United Nations Commission on 
International Trade Law on the work of its  
forty-fifth session
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/465)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  two 
draft resolutions recommended by the Sixth Committee 
in paragraph 10 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on draft resolutions I and II, one by one.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Report of the United 
Nations Commission on International Trade Law on the 
work  of  its  forty-fifth  session”.  The  Sixth  Committee 
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 67/89).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  II  is  entitled 
“Recommendations  to  assist  arbitral  institutions  and 
other interested bodies with regard to arbitration under 
the Arbitration Rules of the United Nations Commission 
on  International  Trade  Law  as  revised  in  2010”.  The 
Sixth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take 
it the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 67/90).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 77?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 78
United Nations Programme of Assistance in 
the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider 
Appreciation of International Law
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/466)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted 
it  without  a  vote.  May  I  consider  that  the  Assembly 
wishes to do likewise? 
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/91).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 78?
A/67/PV.56
It was so decided.
Agenda item 79
Report of the International Law Commission on the 
work of its sixty-third and sixty-fourth sessions
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/467)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/92).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 79?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 80
Status of the Protocols Additional to the Geneva 
Conventions of 1949 and relating to the protection 
of victims of armed conflicts
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/468)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/93).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 80?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 81
Consideration of effective measures to enhance the 
protection, security and safety of diplomatic and 
consular missions and representatives
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/469)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision 
12-64939
5
A/67/PV.56
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/94).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 81?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/97).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 83?
It was so decided.
It was so decided.
Agenda item 82
Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of 
the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the 
Role of the Organization
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/470)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  two 
draft resolutions recommended by the Sixth Committee 
in  paragraph  12  of  its  report.  We  will  now  take  a 
decision on draft resolutions I and II.
Draft resolution I is entitled “Thirtieth anniversary 
of the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of 
International Disputes”. The Sixth Committee adopted 
it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 67/95).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  II  is  entitled 
“Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  on  the  Strengthening  of  the  Role 
of the Organization”. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 67/96).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 82?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 83
The rule of law at the national and international 
levels
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/471)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision 
Agenda item 84
The scope and application of the principle of 
universal jurisdiction
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/472)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 9 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted 
it  without  a  vote.  May  I  consider  that  the  Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/98).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 84?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 105
Measures to eliminate international terrorism
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/473)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 10 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/99). 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 105?
It was so decided. 
6 
12-64939
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/474)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
decision  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take action on the 
draft decision, entitled “Provisional programme of work 
of the Sixth Committee for the sixty-eighth session of 
the General Assembly”. The Sixth Committee adopted 
it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
The draft decision was adopted.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
116.
Agenda item 131 (continued)
Programme planning 
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/475)
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly wishes to take note of the report of the Sixth 
Committee?
It was so decided.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 131.
Agenda item 165
Report of the Committee on Relations with the  
Host Country 
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/477)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 8 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/100). 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 165?
It was so decided.
A/67/PV.56
Agenda item 166
Observer status for the Cooperation Council of 
Turkic-speaking States in the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/478)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
draft  decision  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee 
in  paragraph  8  of  its  report.  We  will  now  take  action 
on the draft decision. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 166?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 167
Observer status for the International Conference of 
Asian Political Parties in the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/479)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
draft  decision  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee 
in  paragraph  8  of  its  report.  We  will  now  take  action 
on the draft decision. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 167?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 168
Observer status for the Andean Development 
Corporation in the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/480)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
12-64939
7
A/67/PV.56
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/101). 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 168?
of  the  Bureau,  the  Secretary  of  the  Committee  and 
representatives for a job manifestly well done. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration of all the reports of the Sixth Committee 
before it.
It was so decided.
Agenda item 169
Observer status for the International Chamber of 
Commerce in the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/481)
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
draft  decision  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee 
in  paragraph  8  of  its  report.  We  will  now  take  action 
on the draft decision. The Sixth Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 169?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 170
Observer status for the European Organization for 
Nuclear Research in the General Assembly
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/67/556)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Sixth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report. We will now take a decision 
on the draft resolution. The Sixth Committee adopted 
the draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the 
Assembly wishes to do the same? 
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
67/102). 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 170?
It was so decided.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I would like to thank Mr. Yuriy Sergeyev of Ukraine, 
Chairman  of  the  Sixth  Committee,  the  members 
Agenda item 110 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(a) Election of seven members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General 
(A/67/125/Rev.1/Add.1)
The  President:  Pursuant  to  decision  42/450,  of 
17  December  1987,  and  upon  their  nomination  by 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  Assembly 
elects  the  members  of  the  Committee  for  Programme 
and  Coordination.  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its 
34th plenary meeting held, on 12 November, the General 
Assembly elected five members to the Committee for a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2013.
Members  will  also  recall  that  by  its  decisions 
2012/201  A  and  B,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
postponed  the  nomination  of  one  member  from  Latin 
American and Caribbean States and one member from 
Western European and other States for a term beginning 
on 1 January 2013 and expiring on 31 December 2015.
In  that  connection,  the  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
note by the Secretary-General contained in document 
A/67/125/Rev.1/Add.1.  As  indicated  in  that  document, 
by  its  decision  2012/201  C  of  26  November  2012,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  nominated  El  Salvador 
to  fill  an  outstanding  vacancy  in  the  Committee  for 
a  term  beginning  on  1  January  2013  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2015.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
all elections should be held by secret ballot and there 
shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should  like  to 
recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly  decision 
34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing  with  the 
secret  ballot  for  elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when 
the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the  number 
of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard,  unless 
a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a  given 
election. In the absence of such a request, may I take it 
that the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on 
the basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
8 
12-64939
It was so decided.
The  President:  May  I  therefore  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  wishes  to  declare  El  Salvador  elected 
a  member  of  the  Committee  for  Programme  and 
Coordination for a term of office beginning on 1 January 
2013 and expiring on 31 December 2015?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Members  are  reminded  that  the 
Economic and Social Council postponed the nomination 
of  one  member  from  the  Group  of  Western  European 
and other States for a term beginning on 1 January 2013 
and expiring on 31 December 2015. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 110.
(b) Election of thirty members of the  
United Nations Commission on International 
Trade Law
Letter dated 7 November 2012 from the 
Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic 
to the United Nations addressed to the President 
of the General Assembly (A/67/572)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its 
37th  plenary  meeting,  on  14  November,  the  General 
Assembly elected the following 29 States as members 
of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  International 
Trade Law for a six-year term of office beginning on 
8  July  2013:  Armenia,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  China, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, 
Germany,  Greece,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Indonesia, 
Japan, Kuwait, Liberia, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Namibia, Panama, the Republic of Korea, the Russian 
Federation,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Switzerland,  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
and Zambia. Therefore, those 29 States are not eligible 
for election.
Members  will  also  recall  that  there  remains  one 
seat to be filled from among the Western European and 
other States.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  as  of 
8  July  2013,  the  following  States  will  continue  to  be 
represented  on  the  Commission:  Algeria,  Argentina, 
Australia,  Austria,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Georgia, 
India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy, Jordan, 
Kenya,  Mauritius,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  the 
Philippines, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, 
A/67/PV.56
the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela. Therefore, those 30 States are 
also not eligible for election.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election  of  one  member  to  replace  those  members 
whose terms of office will expire on 7 July 2013.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
the election shall be held by secret ballot and there shall 
be no nominations.
I  should  like  to  recall,  however,  paragraph  16  of 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to this election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  President:  With  regard  to  candidatures,  I 
should  like  to  inform  members  that,  for  the  one  seat 
from among the Western European and other States, the 
Group has endorsed Canada.
Since  there  is  one  candidate  from  the  regional 
Group and one seat to be filled from that Group, may 
I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  wishes  to  declare 
Canada elected for a six-year term of office beginning 
on 8 July 2013?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  would  now  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to document A/67/572, in which 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Czech  Republic 
to  the  United  Nations  informs  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  that,  according  to  the  agreement 
among the members of the Group of Eastern European 
States to rotate their membership in the United Nations 
Commission  on  International  Trade  Law  among 
themselves,  the  Czech  Republic  shall  relinquish  its 
seat  in  favour  of  Belarus  on  the  last  day  prior  to  the 
beginning of the forty-sixth session of the Commission, 
in July 2013.
As  a  result,  a  vacancy  has  occurred  and  a  new 
member must therefore be elected to fill the unexpired 
term of office of the Czech Republic that will commence 
12-64939
9
A/67/PV.56
on 8 July 2013, the first day of the forty-sixth session of 
the Commission.
day prior to the beginning of the forty-ninth session of 
the Commission in 2016?
May I take it that the Assembly decides to declare 
Belarus a member of the United Nations Commission 
on  International  Trade  Law  for  a  term  of  office 
beginning the first day of the forty-sixth session of the 
Commission, on 8 July 2013, and expiring on the last 
It was so decided.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda 
item 110.
The meeting was adjourned at 11.05 a.m.
10 
12-64939
