United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
11th plenary meeting
A/67/PV.11
Ofﬁ cial Records
Wednesday, 26 September 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Benmehidi 
(Algeria), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Kiribati
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President  Tong:  I  bring  warm  greetings  from  the 
people of Kiribati, on whose behalf I am privileged to 
address  this  body  once  again.  I  join  with  those  who 
have gone before me in congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić 
on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session. We find ourselves in challenging 
times. The work ahead of us during this session ref lects 
those challenges. I am confident, however, that, under 
his able leadership, this Organization will continue its 
work  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  for  all  members 
of  our  global  community,  in  particular  those  who  are 
most vulnerable.
Let me also take this opportunity to acknowledge 
with  appreciation  the  commendable  leadership  of  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  during 
the most recent session of the General Assembly.
I also recognize the unwavering dedication of our 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon.  With  his  hand 
on  the  tiller,  he  continues  to  steer  our  Organization 
through  the  complex  realities  and  challenges  facing 
our world today towards our objectives. In particular, I 
would like to acknowledge with deep appreciation his 
personal  commitment  to  the  issue  of  climate  change 
and  the  plight  of  the  most  vulnerable.  We  in  Kiribati 
welcomed 
to  our  country 
last  year,  during  the  first  visit  ever  by  anyone  in  his 
position to our part of the world. We were grateful for 
the  opportunity  to  show  him  firsthand  the  challenges 
of living on the front lines of climate change.
the  Secretary-General 
In  the  President’s  opening  statement  yesterday 
(see A/67/PV.6), he reminded us that the core function 
of  the  Organization  is  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security. It is important that we all ref lect on what we 
have  done  as  individuals  to  achieve  a  more  peaceful, 
secure  and  better  world.  We  must  ask  ourselves  if 
what we are doing is in the collective interest of all the 
peoples of this world or of just a select few. We must 
look at our efforts as leaders of this global family and 
ask  ourselves  if  we  are  doing  the  right  thing  for  our 
children and their children.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52219 (E)
*1252219*
A/67/PV.11
I  firmly  believe  that,  with  all  the  information 
available  to  us  today,  we  should  know  exactly  what 
needs  to  be  done.  We  know  what  we  have  to  do  but, 
for whatever reason, we lack the courage, the fortitude 
and the vision to do it. We lack a sense of responsibility 
for  each  other.  We  are  not  willing  to  step  out  of  our 
comfort zone and make the necessary sacrifices for the 
security and future of all members of our international 
community.
It  is  never  too  late  to  do  the  right  thing.  History 
shows many examples where global action has resulted 
in global good. We have managed to secure a relatively 
more  peaceful  world.  We  have  been  able  to  address 
some of the major injustices of the past. We have come 
together  to  face  down  those  who  seek  to  achieve  their 
objectives  through  terrorist  means.  However,  we  must 
remain vigilant, as new and emerging forms of security 
threats  and  injustices  are  cropping  up  to  threaten  our 
global family.
This will be the seventh time I have had the honour 
to address the Assembly in my nine years as President 
of  my  country.  Each  time  I  have  sought  to  convey  the 
same  message.  Each  time  I  have  spoken  of  the  real 
and  existential  threat  to  my  nation.  Each  time  I  have 
reminded  the  Assembly  of  the  need  for  urgent  action 
to  address  climate  change  and  sea  level  rise  so  as  to 
ensure the long-term survival of nations like Kiribati.
I frequently find myself watching my grandchildren 
and wondering what sort of a future we shall be leaving 
them.  For  their  sake,  climate  change  is  an  issue  that  I 
will continue to talk about for as long as I have breath in 
my body. This is a critical issue for the survival of our 
people and for all of humanity. It remains the greatest 
moral challenge of our time.
Whether  or  not  we  are  willing  to  acknowledge  it, 
climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  are  the  result  of  the 
unsustainable use of our planet’s resources. Economic 
growth at all costs must not be our mantra, particularly 
when  it  is  those  who  will  benefit  the  least  from  this 
growth  who  will  pay  the  ultimate  price.  The  Earth  is 
not ours to do with as we please. We are merely trustees 
for  future  generations,  and  we  ignore  this  reality  at 
their peril.
the Security Council. I applaud the commitment of our 
Secretary-General to this particular security threat, but 
he needs the support of all nations to take the necessary 
action to address it.
We  must  step  up  our  collective  efforts  to  mitigate 
global greenhouse-gas emissions. We continue to urge 
major greenhouse-gas emitters to do their part. We also 
urge  development  partners  to  provide  the  appropriate 
level  of  resources  and  technology  to  enable  us  to  deal 
with the current and future impacts of climate change 
and sea-level rise.
While we are taking adaptative measures to ensure 
that Kiribati remains habitable for as long as possible, 
we  are  also  preparing  for  a  future  when  our  islands 
may  no  longer  be  able  to  sustain  our  population.  We 
are  looking  to  improve  the  skills  of  our  people  to  a 
level  where  they  will  be  able  to  compete  for  jobs  in 
the international labour market. We want our people to 
have the option to migrate with dignity, should that be 
a necessary choice in the future, and all the science is 
telling us that that is a real possibility.
We note some positive progress made at the recent 
climate  change  talks  in  Bangkok,  building  on  the 
decisions  made  in  Durban  last  year.  However,  action 
has  been  too  slow  in  coming.  We  inch  along,  when 
it  is  great  strides  that  are  needed.  On  those  issues 
where we have consensus, we believe the international 
community  must  move  to  implement  agreed  action 
without  delay,  while  we  continue  our  discussions  on 
those  matters  that  remain  contentious.  If  we  wait  for 
agreement on everything, then it is going to be a very 
long wait and a long process.
It  should  not  come  as  a  surprise  that  we  are  off-
track  on  many  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  While  other  countries  are  focusing 
their resources on their efforts to meet the MDGs, we, 
the  most  vulnerable  countries,  continue  to  spend  a 
disproportionate level of our limited resources fighting 
the onslaught of the rising seas and storm surges on our 
homes, livelihoods and public infrastructure. That is a 
costly  exercise  that  we  cannot  afford.  We  continue  to 
rely on the goodwill of our partners and members of our 
global community in that regard.
The Organization was founded on the fundamental 
principle  of  sovereign  equality.  Security 
issues 
affecting  each  of  us  must  be  given  due  recognition. 
We are grateful that the General Assembly agrees that 
climate  change  is  a  matter  warranting  the  attention  of 
We are a nation of water. We are a very-large-ocean 
State.  We  believe  that,  given  the  right  support,  we 
can  achieve  sustainable  development  through  the 
utilization  of  the  available  resources  of  our  vast 
exclusive economic zone. We believe that, in so doing, 
2 
12-52219
we can reduce our reliance on development assistance. 
I also believe that we may even be able to do away with 
development  assistance  altogether,  if  we  are  provided 
with the support we need now to develop our capacity 
to harvest and process our own resources.
Fisheries remain a major economic resource for my 
country,  providing  between  40  and  50  per  cent  of  our 
revenue.  Our  aspiration  is  to  maximize  returns  from 
that resource, given the current rate of return of between 
5  and  8  per  cent  after  landed  value  alone.  We  have 
started  establishing  our  fish-processing  plant  through 
a public/private partnership. Seabed mining is another 
potential  source  of  revenue.  However,  we  are  mindful 
of  the  need  to  take  a  precautionary  approach  towards 
that  particular  industry,  given  the  potential  damage  it 
could cause to our pristine marine environment.
We  acknowledge  the  fundamental  role  of  our 
environment  as  a  pillar  of  sustainable  development. 
Maintaining  the  health  and  biodiversity  of  our  oceans 
and  ecosystems  will  be  critical.  Our  contribution  to 
those  efforts  is  the  Phoenix  Islands  Protected  Area, 
which  was  once  the  world’s  largest  marine  protected 
area.  We  have  set  aside  that  area  as  a  haven  for 
marine  biodiversity,  and  that  is  our  gift  to  humanity 
in  recognition  of  the  value  of  protecting  our  common 
heritage.
Ocean  conservation  is  beyond  the  resources  of 
any  single  country.  Collaboration  on  cross-border 
initiatives  is  therefore  essential  to  advancing  our 
efforts  in  that  regard.  At  the  recent  Pacific  Islands 
Forum  meeting  in  the  Cook  Islands,  the  United  States 
and Kiribati announced plans to collaborate in building 
links  between  our  adjoining  marine  parks  in  the 
Phoenix  Islands,  under  the  umbrella  of  the  Phoenix 
Ocean  Arc.  That  effort  is  our  joint  contribution  to  the 
Pacific  Oceanscape  Framework.  We  want  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  invite  the  international  community  to 
partner with us in that endeavour.
Our message to the international community is that 
conservation  of  biodiversity  and  marine  ecosystems 
in  the  Pacific  is  not  only  important  to  the  sustainable 
development of Pacific island people. It is also of vital 
importance  to  the  rest  of  the  global  community.  The 
international community needs to support those efforts, 
not as a hand-out but as an investment for this planet’s 
future generations.
In  June,  we  met  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  to  review  our 
progress  20  years  on  from  the  1992  Earth  Summit. 
A/67/PV.11
Twenty years ago, we agreed that the protection of our 
global environment was critical for our future survival 
and  that  the  pursuit  of  development  must  be  based  on 
the  long-term  sustainability  of  our  natural  resources. 
Unfortunately,  our  track  record  in  delivering  on  our 
undertakings  has  not  been  good.  In  fact,  in  many 
respects, our environment is worse off today than it was 
20  years  ago.  The  fine  balance  keeping  our  planetary 
ecosystem  together  has  been  adversely  affected  by 
our pursuit of individual benefits at the expense of the 
collective  good.  While  some  members  of  our  global 
family  continue  to  benefit  from  the  unsustainable 
exploitation  of  resources,  others  are  having  to  pay  the 
ultimate  price.  We  do  not  believe  that  there  is  justice 
in that.
We renewed our commitment in June to achieving 
the  future  we  want.  That  future  will  require  our 
Organization  to  evolve  to  ref lect  the  realities  of  our 
time,  a  time  in  which  new  and  emerging  security 
threats  and  injustices,  such  as  climate  change,  are 
challenging the credibility of our international system 
of  governance;  a  time  in  which  the  future  survival 
of  some  nations  is  seriously  in  question;  and  a  time 
when all those countries with the ability to do so must 
contribute  to  the  prevention  of  such  a  calamity  or  be 
forever judged by history. If we are to provide a secure, 
peaceful  and  prosperous  future  for  our  children,  then 
we must go beyond business as usual and deliver now. 
In fact, we should have delivered yesterday.
We  accept  the  reality  that,  during  these  uncertain 
times, there is a need for the United Nations to remain 
as  relevant  and  responsive  as  possible  to  the  ever-
changing  needs  and  challenges  of  this  world.  In  our 
discussions earlier this morning, I was most encouraged 
to  be  assured  by  the  Secretary-General’s  commitment 
to ensuring that our Organization will undergo reforms 
in  order  to  become  more  efficient,  more  transparent 
and more accountable. We also welcome the Secretary-
General’s proposal to strengthen partnerships with civil 
society and the private sector. 
In fact, I believe that such a partnership must begin 
at the community and national levels before extending 
to the regional and international levels. 
The  fundamental  fabric  that  binds  us  together  as 
a  family  and  as  humanity  is  unravelling  at  the  seams. 
Maintaining  security  and  ensuring  the  survival  of 
people  in  conf lict  areas,  particularly  in  the  Middle 
East and North Africa, remain a major challenge to our 
Organization.  Let  us  pray  for  the  sake  of  those  on  the 
12-52219
3
A/67/PV.11
front line of the major global challenges that a greater 
understanding and stability will prevail. 
It  is  gratifying  to  note  the  continued  easing  of 
tension  and  the  improvement  of  relations  across  the 
Taiwan  Straits.  We  also  welcome  the  inclusion  of 
countries such as Taiwan in the international activities 
of  the  World  Health  Assembly.  We  hope  that  a 
similar  understanding  will  prevail  in  respect  of  other 
international institutions and processes so that Taiwan 
can  participate  and  contribute  meaningfully  for  the 
good of humanity.
As  we  chart  the  path  towards  the  future  that  we 
want,  we  must  address  the  fundamental  threats  to  the 
very existence of the members of this family of nations. 
As  a  family,  we  must  guarantee  the  survival  of  the 
members  of  our  community.  Climate  change  must  be 
resolved before it is too late for those countries on the 
front line and, indeed, the whole of humanity.
We need compassionate, visionary and responsible 
leadership  at  this  time  in  order  to  direct  our  path 
towards  a  more  secure  and  just  future.  We  owe  it  to 
our children and their children’s children to act and act 
soon. So let us pray that God will give us the common 
sense to do the right thing for the future of humanity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe.
Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  G.  Mugabe, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Mugabe:  On  behalf  of  my  delegation 
and  myself,  may  I  extend  to  Mr.  Jeremić  our  warmest 
congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  His 
extensive experience in both regional and international 
affairs  will  undoubtedly  enrich  the  debate  and  the 
proceedings during this session. I wish to assure him of 
the full cooperation of Zimbabwe as he discharges the 
onerous duties of that high office.
If  I  may  be  allowed,  I  would  like  to  preface  my 
speech with a reference to the most glowing and moving 
speech that we heard from the President of the United 
States  yesterday  (see  A/67/PV.6),  the  significance  of 
which was to get us to condemn the tragic death of the 
United States Ambassador to Libya. I am sure that we 
were all moved and that we all agree that it was, indeed, 
an appalling event that we all condemn. 
A  year  ago,  we  saw  the  barbaric  and  brutal  death 
of  the  Head  of  State  of  Libya,  which  is  a  member  of 
the  African  Union.  His  death  occurred  in  a  context  in 
which  NATO  was  operating  supposedly  in  order  to 
protect civilians. As we join the United States in spirit 
in condemning the Ambassador’s death, will the United 
States also join us in condemning the barbaric death of 
the Head of State of Libya, Al-Qadhafi? 
That  great  and  tragic  loss  to  Africa  occurred  in 
circumstances in which NATO had sought the authority 
of  the  Security  Council  under  Chapter  VII  to  operate 
in  Libya  in  the  protection  of  civilians,  who  were  said 
to be at the mercy of the Government of Libya, led by 
Colonel Al-Qadhafi. The mission was strictly to protect 
civilians,  but  it  became  a  brutal  hunt  for  Al-Qadhafi 
and his family. NATO caught up with them. Al-Qadhafi 
and  some  of  his  children  suffered  the  brutal  deaths 
about which we know. 
As the United States President spoke, I am sure that 
that he was aware that his country, as a NATO Power, 
had,  alongside  the  other  NATO  Powers,  the  authority 
under Chapter VII to operate in Libya in order to protect 
civilians.  But  is  that  what  the  operation  turned  out  to 
be?  In  a  very  dishonest  manner,  we  saw  the  authority 
entrusted under Chapter VII being used as a weapon in 
order to rout a whole family and to commit the murders 
that occurred in that country. Bombs were hurled in a 
callous manner. Quite a number of civilians died. Was 
that the protection they had sought under Chapter VII 
of the Charter? So the death of Al-Qadhafi must be seen 
in  the  same  tragic  vein  as  the  death  of  Chris  Stevens. 
We condemn both.
4 
12-52219
A/67/PV.11
Let  me  begin  by  reaffirming  the  rightful  and 
important role of the United Nations in the management 
of issues affecting international peace and security. In 
the quest for a more just and equitable international order, 
Zimbabwe  remains  strongly  opposed  to  unilateralism 
and committed to multilateralism. We would therefore 
like  to  see  a  United  Nations  that  continues  to  be  a 
guarantor  of  world  peace  and  security  and  a  bulwark 
in  the  fight  for  justice  and  equality  among  nations.  It 
behoves us all, therefore, to take the necessary steps to 
ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is  not  marginalized  on 
international issues.
Equally  important,  the  United  Nations  must,  in 
future, never allow itself to be abused, as it was in the 
case  I  referred  to  earlier,  when  NATO  sought  under 
Chapter VII authority to protect civilians, but it did not 
turn out to be that. In the future, the Security Council 
must  never  allow  itself  to  be  abused  by  any  Member 
State or group of States that seeks to achieve parochial, 
partisan  goals.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
clearly  stipulates  that  it  is  an  international  body  that 
should work for the good of all the peoples of the world, 
big and small.
We recognize that there are existing and emerging 
threats  and  challenges  that  continue  to  frustrate  our 
individual  and  collective  efforts  to  attain  greater 
economic  development  and  social  progress,  as  well 
as  peace  and  security.  But  the  increasing  trend 
among  the  NATO  member  States,  inspired  by  the 
arrogant  belief  that  they  are  the  most  powerful 
among  us  —  demonstrated  in  their  recent  resort  to 
unilateralism  and  military  hegemony  in  Libya  —  is 
the very antithesis of the basic principles of the United 
Nations. In the case of Libya, the African Union and its 
peacemaking role was defied, ignored and humiliated. 
The African Union sought dialogue between the Libyan 
authorities  and  the  so-called  revolutionaries.  May  we 
urge  the  international  community  to  collectively  nip 
this dangerous and unwelcome aggressive development 
in the bud before it festers.
In  that  regard,  the  theme  that  the  President  has 
chosen for this session — “Bringing about adjustment 
or settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful means” — is very appropriate. This is what we 
in the African Union stress — the settlement of disputes 
in  a  peaceful  way,  through  dialogue.  The  warmongers 
of our world have done us enough harm. Wherever they 
have  imposed  themselves,  chaos  in place  of peace  has 
been the result. One example was the situation created 
by the Bush-Blair illegal campaign in Iraq — an illegal 
campaign  undertaken  because  it  was  alleged  that 
Saddam  Hussein  had  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
when  it  was  well  known  to  those  two  and  their 
Governments that he did not have such weapons — and, 
indeed,  after  invading  Iraq,  creating  much  havoc  and 
getting  rid  of  Saddam  Hussein,  they  admitted  that  he 
had no weapons of mass destruction. So why had they 
attacked  Iraq  in  the  first  place?  Why  did  they  seek  to 
get  rid  of  Saddam  Hussein?  Was  it  merely  because  he 
was a dictator, as they alleged? No, he was the head of 
a country that sat on tons and tons of oil. It was oil they 
required,  and  we  saw  companies  —  indeed,  one  such 
company  was  headed  by  a  brother  of  Bush —  rushing 
to suck oil from Iraq.
That is also what happened with Libya. The situation 
they  created  in  Iraq  has  now  brought  about  greater 
instability than there ever was. We have Sunnis rising 
against  Shias,  and  vice  versa,  let  alone  the  disastrous 
economic consequences of that unlawful invasion. The 
economy  is  unstable,  society  unstable,  and  people  are 
fighting  one  another.  Libya  has  been  made  equally 
unstable after NATO’s deceitful intervention under the 
sham cover of Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the phony principle of the responsibility to 
protect. I listened to the speech made by the Secretary-
General.  He  made  reference  to  that  principle.  It  is 
one  that  can  be  abused,  and  it  has  been  abused.  And, 
anyway, it is still being debated.
Zimbabwe ﬁ rmly believes in the peaceful settlement 
of disputes between and among States in a manner that 
is  consistent  with  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, much more must be done to prevent 
conf licts from erupting in the first place, and to prevent 
relapses  once  a  situation  has  been  stabilized.  Beyond 
deploying  adequate  resources  for  managing  conf licts, 
it is important to address their underlying causes, and 
to pursue, more proactively, a comprehensive approach 
focusing  on  conf lict  prevention,  peacebuilding, 
peace-maintenance  and  development.  In  pursuing  thst 
cause,  my  delegation  strongly  believes  that  adherence 
to the Charter of the United Nations should be a solemn 
obligation of all Member States.
We  have  noticed,  with  deep  regret,  that  the 
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  dealing  with 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  have,  on  occasion, 
been  ignored  by  the  Security  Council.  In  contrast, 
there  appears  to  be  an  insatiable  appetite  for  war, 
12-52219
5
A/67/PV.11
embargoes,  sanctions  and  other  punitive  actions,  even 
on matters that are better resolved through multilateral 
cooperation  and  dialogue.  Instead  of  resorting  to  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes, we are daily witnessing 
a  situation  where  might  is  now  right.  We  have  said, 
“Well, yes, those who are powerful might hang on the 
principle that might is right”, but certainly right is also 
might. 
We need to take stock of the inspiring Preamble to 
the United Nations Charter, where the plenipotentiaries 
who  met  in  San  Francisco  in  1945  undertook  to  “save 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. That 
is  especially  pertinent  at  present,  when  global  events 
represent  a  radical  departure  from  that  solemn  and 
noble  San  Francisco  declaration.  What  do  the  NATO 
alliance members have to say about that, one may ask.
It  is  therefore  important  that  the  Security  Council 
should respect and support the decisions, processes and 
priorities of regional organizations. In contrast, recent 
events — as has already been stated — particularly with 
reference to Africa, have demonstrated the scant regard 
that the United Nations and certain powerful members 
of the international community give to the pivotal role of 
regional  organizations.  Effective  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  will 
become viable and sustainable only when developed on 
the  basis  of  mutual  respect  and  support,  as  well  as  on 
shared responsibility and commitment.
It  is  regrettable  to  note  that  certain  unacceptable 
concepts  are  currently  being  foisted  on  the  United 
Nations membership in the absence of intergovernmental 
mandates.  For  instance,  there  is  no  agreement  yet  on 
the concept of  the responsibility to protect, especially 
with respect to the circumstances under which it might 
be invoked. We are concerned by the clear and growing 
evidence  that  the  concept  of  responsibility  to  protect 
has  begun  to  be  applied  and  seriously  abused,  thus 
inevitably compromising and undermining the cardinal 
principle  of  the  sovereignty  of  States  and  the  United 
Nations  Charter  principles  of  territorial  integrity  and 
non-interference in the domestic affairs of countries.
For  the  international  community  to  successfully 
deal  with  global  economic,  social,  security  and 
environmental challenges, the existence of international 
institutions  to  handle  them  and  a  culture  of  genuine 
multilateralism  are  critical.  The  United  Nations, 
its  specialized  agencies  and  international  financial 
institutions  are  the  only  instruments  available  for 
responding effectively to the global challenges we face 
in  the  global  village.  It  is  therefore  critical  that  those 
structures  be  reformed  and  realigned  in  response  to 
both global challenges and our contemporary realities, 
in  order  to  enable  them  to  better  serve  our  collective 
interests.
This  Assembly  is  the  most  representative  organ 
within  the  United  Nations  family.  We  must  therefore 
dedicate ourselves to finding consensus on measures to 
revitalize it so that it fulfils its mandate in accordance 
with the provisions of the Charter. We wish to reiterate 
our  deep  concern  that  the  mandate,  powers  and 
jurisdiction  of  the  General  Assembly  are  shrinking 
as  a  consequence  of  the  Security  Council’s  gradual 
encroachment on the Assembly’s areas of competence. 
That, in our view, upsets the delicate balance envisaged 
under 
the  overall 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  system.  The 
General  Assembly  must  remain  the  main  deliberative, 
policy-making organ of the United Nations.
the  Charter  and  undermines 
We have been seized with the debate on the reform of 
the Security Council for far too long. My delegation fully 
supports the current intergovernmental negotiations on 
the reform and expansion of the Council. However, we 
wish  to  caution  against  an  open-ended  approach  that 
short-changes  those  of  us  from  regions  that  are  not 
represented at all among the permanent membership of 
the Council. Zimbabwe stands by Africa’s demand for 
two  permanent  seats,  complete  with  a  veto  if  the  veto 
is  to  be  retained,  plus  two  additional  non-permanent 
seats, as clearly articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus 
and the Sirte Declaration. 
For  how  long  will  the  international  community 
continue to ignore the aspirations of a whole continent 
of 54 countries? We shall not be bought off with empty 
promises, nor shall we accept some cosmetic tinkering 
with  the  Security  Council  disguised  as  reform.  It  is 
indeed a travesty of justice that the African continent, 
which  accounts  for  almost  a  third  of  the  membership 
represented  in  this  Assembly,  has  no  permanent 
representation in the Council. Is that good governance? 
Is that democracy? And is that justice?
My  delegation 
condemns  unreservedly 
the 
economic  sanctions  imposed  against  my  country  and 
people in an unjustified effort to deny them the chance 
to fully benefit from their natural resource endowment. 
We wish to remind those who have maintained sanctions 
against us that there is international consensus — fully 
supported  by 
the  Southern  African  Development 
6 
12-52219
Community,  the  African  Union,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and the rest of the progressive world — that 
these sanctions must go. We hope they will go. 
Allow me to conclude by reaffirming Zimbabwe’s 
commitment  to  the  principles  that  have  brought  us 
together  in  the  United  Nations  for  the  last  67  years. 
My  country  is  confident  that  in  this  inextricably 
interdependent world, our commitment to the common 
good,  which  the  Organization  embodies,  will  be 
resolute and enduring. Zimbabwe will continue to stand 
firm  and  to  condemn  unilateralism,  the  imposition  of 
unwarranted  and  illegal  sanctions  on  nations  and  the 
unwarranted  extraterritorial  application  of  national 
laws.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Robert  G.  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, President 
of the Republic of Haiti
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Haiti.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of    the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly, 
President of  the Republic of Haiti, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Martelly (spoke in French): I come here 
to the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly to 
bring, on behalf of the Haitian people, my contribution 
to the debate that today brings together representatives 
of all peoples of the world. 
The  election  of  Mr.  Jeremić  to  the  Assembly 
presidency  is  for  me  a  clear  message  that  the  small 
States Members of the United Nations can play a major 
role  and  make  their  contribution  to  peace,  even  in  the 
global context of a sluggish economy. On behalf of the 
Haitian  delegation,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  him 
for having raised and encouraged the theme for today’s 
A/67/PV.11
debate,  which,  unfortunately,  is  a  concern  of  many 
Members of the great family of the United Nations.
Also  permit  me  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  dynamism, 
wisdom,  good  judgement,  vision  and  courage  he  has 
shown more than once in managing extremely sensitive 
international situations. I also would like to especially 
thank him for the particular attention he has bestowed 
on my country, Haiti.
Since  my  accession  to  power,  the  Haiti  I  love 
has  attempted,  in  intent  and  in  deeds  —  with  many 
ups  and  downs,  no  doubt  with  successes  and  some 
mistakes — to emerge from its difficulties. I have been 
strongly dedicated to that effort. I can imagine that, with 
the impetus provided, results will be forthcoming in a 
matter of months or years. How could it be otherwise? 
Haiti today, the Haiti that I have the mission of serving, 
has  understood  that  as  long  as  there  are  quarrels, 
frustrations, poverty, underdevelopment and inequality, 
the world in general and Haiti in particular will never 
be protected from problems and controversies. As long 
as things are bad within nations, they will be tempted to 
turn to their neighbours and seek quarrels. Throughout 
long centuries of world history examples have not been 
lacking. That is why we say today that, while it is good 
to  seek  peaceful  solutions  to  international  disputes,  it 
would perhaps be wiser to try to prevent them. 
As  long  as  access  to  water  and  to  major  markets, 
or  just  compensation  for  raw  materials  and  sound 
economic  competitiveness  are  not  available  to  us,  we 
will  continue  to  have  conf licts.  As  long  as  we  at  the 
United Nations do not pool our efforts so that access to 
health and to jobs and respect for differences become a 
reality, we will continue to face conf licts, and we will 
be reduced to painfully seeking peaceful solutions.
We  champion  gender  equality  and  we  promote 
democracy. We daily attempt to apply equal treatment 
for  all  under  the  law.  Respect  for  the  environment 
is  inscribed  in  our  programme  of  Government.    In 
my  view,  those  are  the  parameters  that  prevent 
uncontrolled  migrations,  climate  change,  useless 
wars,  religion-related  massacres,  ethnic  conf licts  and 
terrorism. 
In our common quest for harmony in a world with 
different cultures and diverse religions, we must allow 
our  national  dreams  to  emerge.  Those  dreams  can  be 
summed up as offering the possibility to every man and 
every  woman,  regardless  of  color,  religion  or  political 
12-52219
7
A/67/PV.11
preference, to live in peace and to rear their children in 
dignity.
the  indispensable  precondition  for  any  development 
policy.
to  help 
The  Haiti  of  Toussaint  Louverture,  over  two 
centuries ago, already understood that. Those national 
dreams,  however,  will  not  see  the  light  of  day  if  the 
commitments  made 
the  development  of 
countries  like  ours  are  not  implemented,  if  prejudice 
and suspicions of all kinds regarding the have-nots still 
prevail. In order to prevent those differences, we must 
regard  others  in  a  different  way,  with  eyes  purified, 
I  would  say,  at  the  Pool  of  Siloam.  Haiti  continues  to 
suffer from being regarded in the old way.
On  the  eve  of  Haiti’s  presidency  of  the  Caribbean 
Community, I repeat that with good faith and goodwill, 
things  can  change,  because  our  destinies,  whatever 
side  we  may  be  on,  are  intimately  intertwined.  In  a 
world where the global trend is towards the forming of 
economic  and  social  blocs,  the  great  can  remain  great 
only  if  they  know  how  to  transform  the  multiplicity 
of  children  of  the  planet  into  a  single  great  social  and 
economic family, respectful of the cultural and religious 
traditions of all, without exclusion.
Therefore  the  necessary  dialogue  must  prevail 
among us, not the dialogue of the deaf in which we have 
been powerlessly enmeshed for decades. We must have 
real  exchanges  and  negotiations  that  alone  can  put  an 
end  to  the  interminable  conf licts,  which  have  brought 
families grief and disrupted the peace of the world.
History  has  taught  us  that  there  is  no  justice  or 
equality  in  international  relations.  History  has  also 
taught us that every nation looks after its own interests. 
The establishment of the United Nations kindled hope 
among peoples that things could be different. We cannot 
let  that  f lame  die.  Within  any  family  in  general  and 
within  the  family  of  the  United  Nations  in  particular, 
there cannot be great and small, giants and dwarfs, but 
equal  beings  with  interests  to  defend  and  opinions  to 
express  on  the  basis  of  forward-looking  relationships, 
relationships marked by liberty, equality, fraternity and 
the pursuit of happiness for all.
But  let  us  not  be  misled:  the  best  foundation  for 
peace  in  the  world,  for  prosperity  and  for  defeating 
poverty  will  always  be  democracy.  Under  my 
leadership,  Haiti  has  understood  that  and  is  making 
active use of democracy to strengthen previously weak 
or  ineffectual  local  institutions.  Haiti  has  understood 
that only veritable democracy can bring stability: it is 
I  wish  to  sincerely  reiterate  from  this  rostrum  the 
urgent  need  we  all  must  face  to  stop  fighting  and  to 
work  instead  to  protect  the  assets  we  share  on  this 
planet  —  to  work  together  to  reduce  and  manage  the 
risks  and  disasters  besetting  the  world,  ruining  our 
economies and hindering development. 
To my colleagues, the leaders of the world, I wish 
to recall that our respective peoples have chosen us and 
entrusted to us the mandate of building a better world 
where no one will be left alone, where our children will 
finally be able to grow up in peace.
The  words  of  Victor  Hugo  come 
to  mind, 
pronounced  at  the  Peace  Congress  in  1847:  “The  day 
will come when there will be no battlefields other than 
markets open to trade and minds open to ideas.”
Those  are  my  wishes  for  the  assembly  of  nations. 
May the good Lord give us His blessings and enlighten 
us.  May  He  bless  the  city  of  New  York,  which  is 
receiving  us  so  warmly,  and  grant  us  the  wisdom  and 
capacity  to  work  towards  a  more  beautiful  and  more 
just world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Haiti for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia.
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President 
of the Republic of Latvia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Bērziņš:  I  commend  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  immense  efforts  in  leading  the  United 
8 
12-52219
Nations  and  its  Secretariat  to  fulfil  its  mission  and 
implement  the  tasks  with  which  the  Organization  is 
charged. The theme of this session is very timely. The 
United Nations plays a leading role in the settlement of 
disputes by peaceful means. It possesses the legal and 
institutional framework to do so.
States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  have 
committed themselves to the principles contained in the 
Charter.  The  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  therefore 
primarily depends on the determination of the national 
and international leaders. Only if they are determined 
can 
international 
organizations  and  institutions  arrive  at  decisions  and 
take action.
the  United  Nations  and  other 
Let  me  speak  about  some  concrete  challenges 
that  require  strong  will  and  decisive  action  by  the 
international community. The conf lict in Syria threatens 
security and stability in the whole region and beyond. 
Latvia  urges  all  members  of  the  Security  Council  to 
find  the  political  will  to  unite  and  resolve  that  crisis. 
The lives of innocent people must be protected.
The  risk  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  is  one  of  the  most  serious  global  threats. 
The  international  community  should  be  united  in  its 
commitment to prevent it. Latvia is seriously concerned 
about the potential use of Syria’s stockpiles of chemical 
weapons.
We  deplore  the  lack  of  progress  in  dialogue  with 
Iran on the nature of its nuclear programme. We believe 
that  its  full  cooperation  to  clarify  all  outstanding 
questions is needed.
We  call  for  strengthening  the  efforts  to  reach  the 
goals  of  the  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  and  its  action  plan.  In  that  regard, 
we  applaud  the  steps  taken  by  the  United  States  and 
Russia  towards  global  disarmament  and  transparency. 
We hope that they will trigger further efforts to reduce 
the reliance on nuclear weapons.
Latvia  also  welcomes  the  consensus  outcome  of 
the  second  Review  Conference  on  Small  Arms  and 
Light Weapons. We should redouble our efforts to find 
solutions on the Arms Trade Treaty as soon as possible.
the 
Latvia  welcomes 
increasingly  active  role 
played  by  regional  organizations  such  as  the  African 
Union  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of conf licts. 
A/67/PV.11
European  regional  organizations  have  also  been 
actively  working  towards  the  resolution  of  protracted 
conf licts  in  the  wider  Europe.  We  see  a  positive 
trend  towards  a  political  settlement  in  Transnistria, 
Republic of Moldova. However, only with progress on 
the  withdrawal  of  foreign  troops  will  any  settlement 
be  sustainable.  A  multinational  peacekeeping  mission 
with an international mandate could be a rational way 
forward.
The  consequences  of  the  conf lict  in  Georgia  in 
2008  will  have  a  long-lasting  effect  on  the  security 
situation in the region. The European Union Monitoring 
Mission  in  Georgia  is  presently  the  only  international 
player  that  monitors  the  implementation  of  the  six-
point agreement. Gaining actual access to the occupied 
territories  would  contribute  to  lasting  progress.  In 
addition,  the  restoration  of  a  meaningful  presence  of 
the United Nations in Georgia is needed.
We  remain  concerned  about  the  increasing  number 
of  incidents  at  the  contact  line  in  Nagorno-Karabakh. 
The conf licting sides should abstain from hostile public 
rhetoric and should concentrate on confidence-building 
measures.  The  conduct  of  major  military  exercises  in 
that volatile region should be avoided.
Afghanistan  has  been  at  the  centre  of  the  world’s 
attention  for  much  more  than  a  decade.  We  believe 
that the international community is fully committed to 
assisting  the  Afghan  Government  in  strengthening  its 
public administration and the National Security Forces.
Latvia will continue its involvement in the European 
Union  (EU)  and  NATO  missions  in  Afghanistan.  We 
also intend to participate in the missions after 2014. In 
addition, Latvia will provide a financial contribution to 
the international fund in support of the Afghan National 
Security Forces.
The  future  of  Afghanistan  is  closely  linked  to 
economic  development  and  regional  cooperation. 
We  encourage  the  full  engagement  of  the  Central 
Asian  countries  in  discussions  on  the  region’s  future. 
Afghanistan has the potential to become a regional hub 
for transportation and transit. Using our experience as 
an  entry  point  to  the  Northern  Distribution  Network, 
Latvia  is  already  engaged  in  training  Afghan  experts 
in the areas of transportation and anti-drug trafficking. 
The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  has 
focused  leaders’  attention  on  immediate  measures  to 
overcome it, often diverting their attention from long-
12-52219
9
A/67/PV.11
term  global  challenges.  The  world  economy  remains 
fragile,  even  if  some  positive  trends  can  be  observed. 
Latvia welcomes all efforts to stabilize the situation in 
the  eurozone  and  supports  recent  steps  in  that  regard. 
We  are  working  hard  to  be  part  of  the  solution  and  to 
become a net contributor to global economic stability. 
Latvia  participates  in  capacity-building  in  several 
conf lict and post-conf lict countries. We actively support 
nations  in  transition  in  their  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
rule  of  law. We  welcome  the  fact  that  those  issues are 
now  part  of  the  Secretary-General’s  five-year  Action 
Agenda and we are committed to their implementation.
Latvia’s  own  gross  national  product  grew  more 
than  5.5  per  cent  in  2011.  That  positive  trend  is  set  to 
continue in 2012. Over the past decade, we have achieved 
significant  progress  with  respect  to  both  income  and 
structural convergence. The quality of governance and 
economic  structures  in  Latvia  is  comparable  to  that 
of  the  member  countries  of  the  Office  of  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD).  Looking  to 
the  OECD’s  expected  enlargement,  Latvia  is  ready  to 
offer its experience with transition and with the kind of 
decisive  reforms  that  are  leading  us  to  recovery  from 
the recent crisis. 
Overall,  Latvia  has  emerged  from  the  downturn 
stronger  and  more  competitive,  with  a  balanced 
economy  and  a  positive  business  environment  that 
positions us well for the next growth cycle. Above all, 
the  sustainability  of  economic  health  must  go  hand 
in  hand  with  the  process  of  incorporation  into  the 
eurozone.  Latvia  believes  that  the  challenges  can  be 
overcome and aims to introduce the euro in 2014.
International peace and security are closely linked 
with  two  other  pillars  of  the  United  Nations,  namely, 
development  and  human  rights.  Latvia  welcomes  the 
establishment  of  the  high-level  panel  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  We  are  pleased  that  the  EU’s 
Commissioner  for  Development,  Mr.  Andris  Piebalgs 
of Latvia, will contribute to the panel’s work.
The  current 
framework  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  has  revitalized  global  action  on 
development and improved its effectiveness. Latvia’s EU 
presidency in 2015 will evaluate the progress achieved 
and  contribute  actively  to  the  agreement  on  post-2015 
framework,  which  should  remain  people-centred, 
focused, time-bound and simple.
In recent years we have witnessed a growing number 
of  people  in  many  countries  demanding  freedom  and 
justice.  The  international  community  must  support 
their aspirations. We must help build stable democratic 
institutions  and  establish  the  rule  of  law.  We  believe 
that  respect  for  human  rights,  good  governance  and 
inclusive  economic  development  will  help  to  prevent 
future conf licts.
that 
and 
economic 
Latvia  believes 
social 
development  will  benefit  from  the  introduction  of  the 
principles of open Government. Civil society in Latvia 
actively participates in the decision-making process at 
all stages and levels. 
Latvia  fully  supports  the  work  of  a  strong  and 
effective Human Rights Council. We have put forward 
our candidacy for the elections to the Council in 2014.
In  order  to  keep  pace  with  the  modern  world,  the 
United  Nations  needs  to  change.  The  time  has  come 
to  start  real  negotiations  on  reforming  the  Security 
Council. We support the enlargement of the Council in 
both the permanent and the non-permanent membership 
categories.  Any  enlargement  of  the  Council  should 
include  at  least  one  new  non-permanent  seat  for  the 
Eastern European Group.
The world is going through a period of turbulence, 
as shown by recent violent events in the Middle East.
We  strongly  condemn  the  attacks  on  diplomatic 
missions  in  several  countries  as  unacceptable.  Latvia 
fully supports the freedom of association and the right 
to demonstrate peacefully. We deplore any attempts to 
use religion to fuel extremism and violence. Tolerance 
and respect for our differences are the key to preventing 
conf licts  and  violence,  both  in  our  communities  and 
internationally.
Finally,  Latvia  looks  forward  to  a  fruitful  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly. Let us address 
the challenges with true political will.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Latvia  for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
10 
12-52219
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Constitutional  President  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  meetings  we  hold  at  the  United  Nations  are 
always  very  important  events  at  which  we  debate 
social,  environmental,  political  and  economic  issues 
throughout  the  world.  I  commend  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  having  chosen  as  our  central 
theme  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  throughout 
the world.
I wish to take the great opportunity of my presence 
here  today  at  the  United  Nations  to  inform  the 
Assembly  about  a  dispute  between  Chile  and  Bolivia. 
In  1879,  as  the  result  of  an  unjust  war  —  an  unjust 
invasion  —  masterminded  by  Chilean  oligarchical 
interests,  with 
transnational 
corporations with an eye on Bolivia’s natural resources, 
we lost our corridor to the Pacific Ocean.
the  participation  of 
Bolivia  was  founded  in  1825  and  lost  access  to  the 
sea in 1879. In the early 1900s, a treaty was signed that 
has not been complied with. It is for that reason that I 
have  come  here  to  take  advantage  of  the  theme  of  our 
debate, the peaceful settlement of disputes, to say that 
major  disputes  among  States  have  been  resolved  and 
injustices rectified through the resolve and goodwill of 
the relevant authorities.
Chile  cannot  disregard  Bolivia’s  rights  or  the 
pronouncements  of  an  entire  continent,  much  less 
prolong  indefinitely  our  forcibly  imposed  landlocked 
status. An unjust, imposed and non-implemented treaty 
cannot be allowed to continue to harm a people that is 
only  calling  for  justice  and  for  an  end  to  its  country’s 
status as a landlocked country.
The  intangibility  of  treaties  means  that  they  are 
not  dogma.  Treaties,  like  all  other  creations  of  human 
A/67/PV.11
beings, can be changed. I say that because when we state 
that  Chile  must  return  our  sea  corridor,  we  are  asked, 
what  treaty?  I  therefore  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to speak of a treaty signed in 1903 between the United 
States and Panama on the Panama Canal. 
In 1903, a treaty on the Panama Canal was signed  
under which the United States was authorized to build the 
Panama Canal and received sovereignty, in perpetuity, 
over  the  territories  on  both  sides  of  the  Canal  and  the 
area  of  the  Canal.  In  other  words,  according  to  the 
Treaty of 1903, that country would be the owner for all 
eternity of the Panama Canal. However, a renegotiated 
treaty  was  signed  in  1977  that  gradually  transferred 
sovereignty over the Canal zone from the United States 
to Panama, and in 1999 Panama recovered control and 
administration of the Canal through the Panama Canal 
Authority.
How did the United States return the Panama Canal 
to  Panama  when,  through  the  first  treaty,  it  had  to  be 
the  owner  of  the  Canal  in  perpetuity?  And  how  is  it 
possible for Chile not to return Bolivia’s sea corridor? 
I  wish  also  to  take  this  opportunity  to  say  that 
today, in this millennium, is a time of integration and 
of focus on the protection of humankind, not a time of 
domestic or external colonialism. That is why I wish to 
reaffirm once again that the Malvinas are for Argentina 
and the sea is for Bolivia. These demands, conf licts and 
disputes have to be resolved peacefully, and Bolivia is 
a peace-loving country, in keeping with the State’s new 
political Constitution.
Bolivia  appeals  once  again  to  the  Government  of 
Chile, here before the Assembly, to resolve definitively 
the  issue  of  our  landlocked  status  through  peaceful 
settlement  mechanisms.  We  call  on  the  international 
community to support us in that endeavour, so that this 
conf lict, which does great harm to the integration of the 
American continent, may finally come to an end.
Among  the  Bolivian  people,  among  children  and 
grandparents alike, there is a strong sense of the need 
to recover our sea corridor. Bolivia was born with a sea, 
and it is not possible that oligarchies and transnational 
companies,  in  order  to  plunder  our  natural  resources, 
can be allowed also to wrest from us our territory. We 
need the support of all those at the helm of the United 
Nations to put an end to a historical injustice on the part 
of international Powers.
12-52219
11
A/67/PV.11
Yesterday  I  listened  to  the  various  statements  on 
issues  related  to  democracy,  human  rights  and  peace, 
and I feel that the statements we make here as Presidents 
show  that  we  agree  in  theory.  All  of  us  here  are  great 
defenders of human rights who want peace and defend 
democracy. But we are divided. The United Nations is 
not united, and that makes a great difference. I listened 
very  carefully  to  the  statement  made  by  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon telling us that we have to change 
the world. We very much agree that we have to change 
the  world.  But  how  can  we  change  the  world  if  we  do 
not  change  the  United  Nations?  How  can  the  United 
Nations  be  responsible  for  interventionism  on  many 
continents?
I have listened to two or three addresses by several 
countries, and I was very pleased. There seems to be a 
rebellion on the part of States against powers, authority 
and capitalism. I am very pleased, because when I came 
here for the first time in 2006, only the countries of the 
Bolivarian Alliance for the Countries of Our America, 
with  great  ideological,  political  and  programmatic 
clarity,  stated  that  everything  was  for  the  people.  I 
know some countries on other continents — very timid 
and fearful countries — feel that today are losing their 
fear of the Powers. I would like to say to them, to their 
representatives  and  to  their  Presidents  that  we  should 
not  be  afraid.  We  should  not  be  afraid  of  empires  or 
capitalism.  Capitalism  and  imperialism  are  not  the 
solution to life or to humanity.
We  are  living  in  times  of  the  crisis  of  capitalism, 
of  a  crisis  in  food.  I  remember  when  I  was  still  a 
trade  union  leader,  we  conducted  campaigns  to  have 
the  external  debt  of  underdeveloped  countries  —  at 
that  time,  they  were  called  underdeveloped  countries, 
instead  of  developing  countries  —  cancelled.  Now  I 
realize that our debt as poor countries can be paid, but 
the  debts  of  capitalism  are  impossible  to  pay.  That  is 
what the world we are living in today shows. 
We  speak  here  of  democracy.  We  have  to  defend 
democracy  and,  in  order  to  do  that,  we  have  to 
intervene in some countries. But if we really wanted to 
be democratic, we would respect all of the resolutions 
of the United Nations. Just to cite an example, does the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  respect 
United  Nations  resolutions  on  the  economic  embargo 
against Cuba? It has never respected them. That is due 
to pride on the part of the rulers, not of the American 
people.  The  rulers  are  never  going  to  respect  those 
resolutions,  but  they  speak  of  democracy  and  of 
defending democracy. 
In that connection, I must express our full backing for 
the Cuban people. Their commander, former President 
Fidel  Castro,  the  most  caring  person  in  the  world  that 
I  have  ever  known  —  and  I  admire  that  revolutionary 
people — is, despite the embargo, engaged in continuous 
battle at the side of his people. It is not possible that in the 
twenty-first  century  an  economic  embargo  continues 
against  the  Cuban  people,  a  genocidal  embargo  that 
has  failed  and  which  violates  the  rights  of  an  entire 
people.  The  embargo  has  been  condemned  by  almost 
all  of  humankind  and  the  international  community, 
including  the  allies  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
for  its  extraterritorial  character  and  its  imposition  in 
violation of humanitarian and international law. Bolivia 
also denounces the unjust inclusion of Cuba on the list 
unilaterally assembled by the United States in its report 
entitled  “State  Sponsors  of  Terrorism”,  the  purpose  of 
which is to justify the embargo and continue imposing 
new  sanctions  on  the  regime  and  the  people  of  Cuba. 
What  authority  does  the  Government  of  the  United 
States have to include a country in the list of terrorist 
countries?  Do  not  all  the  peoples  of  the  world  realize 
that  the  number  one  terrorist  country  practicing  State 
terrorism  is  the  Government  of  the  United  States? 
There have been so many interventions, so many dead 
and  wounded,  so  much  killing —  under  the  pretext  of 
defending democracy. 
Moments  ago,  a  fellow  president  spoke  about  an 
intervention  in  Libya  to  restore  democracy,  which  is 
a  lie.  They  intervened  in  Libya  not  for  its  people  but 
to  recover  oil  for  the  Powers.  We  have  to  be  sincere 
and  straightforward  with  humankind,  but  where  there 
are  presidents  who  stay  in  power  without  practicing 
democracy  but  are 
in  favour  of  capitalism  and 
imperialism,  there  is  no  intervention  because  they  are 
allies of the United States Government; they are allies 
of the empire; they are allies of capitalism. Where there 
are natural resources, like oil, in the hands of the people, 
they have to intervene under any pretext — terrorism, 
dictatorship or drug trafficking — all of it to recover or 
to plunder the natural resources.
Furthermore, I would also like to launch an appeal 
for  the  immediate  release  of  five  Cuban  anti-terrorist 
political  prisoners  in  the  United  States.  Their  release 
would  show  a  political  will  to  defend  human  rights. 
The President of the United States could release them; 
the  power  to  do  so  is  in  his  hands.  I  hope  that  justice 
12 
12-52219
will be done to our five Cuban brothers, who have been 
imprisoned unjustly.
In truth, I do not understand it when the presidents 
who  speak  in  defence  of  human  rights  are  never  the 
ones  who  respect  human,  either  within  or  outside 
their  own  countries.  I  do  not  understand  how  one  can 
speak  of  peace  while  there  are  economic  inequalities 
in  the  world.  While  there  is  an  economic  policy  that 
concentrates  capital  in  the  hands  of  a  few  and  which 
impoverishes  many,  there  will  never  be  justice,  there 
will never be peace or respect for human rights. Indeed, 
the  economic  models  that  concentrate  capital  in  a  few 
hands provoke injustice and create uprisings.
I  feel  that  now  is  the  best  time  —  I  am  referring 
to  various  meetings  at  the  United  Nations  —  to  gain 
better understanding of the situation of all the peoples 
of  the  world.  We  had  requested  the  revision  of  some 
important  international  treaties  concerning  a  very 
important  product  for  the  indigenous  peoples  of  the 
Andean region, the coca leaf. Although the coca leaf has 
medicinal  and  ritual  properties,  it  has  been  penalized 
under  the  1961  Single  Convention  on  Narcotic  Drugs. 
Therefore, Bolivia, which wishes to remain faithful to 
its commitment to fight drug trafficking, has requested 
adherence to the Single Convention with a reservation 
that  preserves  the  right  to  use  coca  leaf  for  cultural 
purposes,  especially  medicinal  purposes,  within  our 
territory. 
In  some  states  of  the  United  States,  it  is  legal  to 
sell cocaine, but the United States does not allow us to 
consume coca leaf — which is not cocaine. I welcome 
the  support  for  the  proposal  on  the  part  of  many 
countries of the continent and the world — non-aligned 
countries — recognizing, after thousands of years, the 
consumption of coca leaf as legal. I respectfully request 
that  the  Assembly,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  United 
Nations, correct a historical prejudicial act.
Unfortunately,  since  there  is  an  illegal  market  for 
coca leaf, that is, a market for cocaine or drugs, a portion 
of the harvest is diverted to the illegal market — but we 
are fighting that. We in Bolivia say that there will be no 
free cultivation of coca, but there cannot be zero coca 
leaf. 
I commend the United Nations for issuing a report a 
few weeks ago affirming that, for the first time, Bolivia 
had reduced the cultivation of coca by more than 12 per 
cent.  That  is  a  Government  achievement  without  any 
dead  or  wounded;  previously,  that  kind  of  reduction 
A/67/PV.11
resulted  in  many  dead  and  wounded.  Now,  while 
maintaining  respect  for  human  rights  and  appealing 
to  the  conscience  of  my  coca-producing  brothers  and 
sisters, we have had a net reduction. 
Coca  cultivation  has  increased  in  some  countries, 
which are subsequently decertified by the United States 
of America. But the United States has also decertified 
a country like Bolivia, even though it has reduced the 
cultivation of coca by 12 per cent. Do we then have to 
plant more coca for the Government of the United States 
to  certify  us?  One  cannot  understand  it.  Of  course, 
since  we  are  an  anti-capitalist  and  anti-imperialist 
people and Government, we have been decertified. That 
decertification is a political statement; it does not take 
into  account  the  efforts  made  by  the  Bolivian  people 
through its Government.
We  are  not  interested  in  whether  we  are  certified 
or  not.  That  is  the  least  of  it.  What  we  are  interested 
in  is  the  United  Nations  data.  Honestly,  the  United 
Nations  works  in  a  transparent  manner  to  recognize 
the work that our Government has done to reduce coca 
cultivation. 
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  talk 
about  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
Bolivia was previously a little-known country that had 
been  abandoned,  living  on  foreign  aid.  We  welcomed 
foreign  aid.  I  would  just  like  to  present  what  we  have 
achieved since we took charge in Bolivia, in the context 
of the MDGs. 
Bolivia  was  supposed  to  reduce  extreme  poverty 
to  24.1  per  cent  by  2015.  I  would  like  to  report  that, 
by  2011,  we  had  reduced  extreme  poverty  to  20  per 
cent. We have a plan. By the time Bolivia celebrates its 
bicentennial, we will have eradicated extreme poverty. 
The numbers from international organizations confirm 
that, last year, 10 per cent of the population went from 
extreme poverty to the middle class. That is 1 million 
Bolivians. 
The second figure to note is that, according to the 
MDG  targets,  78.5  per  cent  of  the  population  should 
have  access  to  safe  drinking  water  by  2015.  I  would 
like to say that, as a result of our programme, this year 
we reached 78.5 per cent of the country, especially the 
indigenous  rural  communities.  We  have  a  programme 
called  “My  Water”  to  promote  greater  investments 
in  water.  What  I  did  personally  was  to  bring  together 
all  of  the  projects  on  safe  drinking  water  or  water  for 
irrigation  from  every  municipality  in  the  country.  For 
the  second  year  in  a  row,  we  have  invested  $300,000 
12-52219
13
A/67/PV.11
per  municipality,  and  that  has  been  rather  helpful,  in 
addition  to  other  programmes  by  the  Ministry  of  the 
Environment  and  Water,  in  particular  in  cities  and  in 
rural areas. Those programmes for drinking water mean 
that  we  have  achieved  our  goal  in  2012,  not  in  2015. 
Hopefully, by 2015 we will have achieved 90 or 100 per 
cent drinking water coverage. That is our programme.
Another of the Goals pertains to coverage in terms 
of  hospital  births.  The  MDG  target  for  2015  is  70  per 
cent. I am here to report that by 2009 we had achieved 
70 per cent coverage, not to mention  other programmes 
such  as  the  one  that  provides  subsidies  for  pregnant 
women  and  children  under  the  age  of  two.  We  are 
making good progress, although with slow steps. 
Why  has  there  been  such  rapid  change?  Social 
programmes and structural changes have allowed us to 
change  Bolivia.  One  example  is  telecommunications. 
Bolivia  has  339  municipalities.  In  2006,  telephone 
coverage or mobile phone coverage in rural areas existed 
in  only  90  municipalities.  The  day  after  tomorrow,  I 
am  going  to  inaugurate  mobile  communication  in  the 
last  municipality,  the  furthest  from  the  cities,  in  the 
Bolivian Amazon. Now my brothers and sisters living 
in  rural  areas  have  telephones  or  mobile  phones  in  all 
339  municipalities.  Entel,  our  telephone  service,  had 
been privatized. We    took  it back,  nationalized  it,  and 
began to invest in it in order to provide better service. 
in  Bolivia 
We  have  made  progress  for  the  following  reason. 
As  President,  I  received  a  mandate  from  the  Bolivian 
people to recover or nationalize our natural resources. 
The  biggest  company 
is  Yacimientos 
Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB). For 20 years, 
neoliberal Governments worked to privatize our natural 
resources.  They  sold  our  natural  resources,  especially 
oil, to transnational corporations. Bolivia received  only 
18  per  cent  of  all  the  profits,  while  82  per  cent  went 
to  transnational  corporations.  In  addition,  what  did 
the  contracts  signed  by  neoliberal  Governments  say? 
Who was the owner? The oil transnational corporations 
acquired  the  right  of  ownership  at  the  mouth  of  the 
well.  The  Governments  would  tell  us  that  the  oil  and 
gas  continued  to  be  ours  as  long  as  it  was  under  the 
ground.  But  once  it  came  to  the  mouth  of  the  well,  it 
belonged to the transnational corporations. We fought, 
we mobilized, we raised awareness among the Bolivian 
people as to the importance of retaking or nationalizing 
that natural resource. On 1 May 2006, we nationalized 
that industry without any misgivings. 
That  act  changed  the  national  economy.  In  2006, 
our  international  reserves  stood  at  $1.7  billion.  Our 
international reserves now stand at more than $13 billion. 
In 2005, YPFB had $300 million in revenue. This year, 
it  has  $3.5  billion.  In  2005,  total  public  investments 
amounted  to  $600  million.  Out  of  that  $600  million, 
70  per  cent  came  from  aid  and  loans  and  only  30  per 
cent  came  from  the  national  treasury.  This  year  State 
investments  will  amount  to  approximately  $6  billion, 
with  an  additional  $6  billion  in  private  investments. 
How did that change come about in such a short period 
of time? 
Of  course,  Bolivia  is  a  small  country.  But  we 
have  managed  to  change  our  national  economy.  That 
is  why  I  say  to  countries  whose  natural  resources, 
including oil and gas, are still in private hands that my 
recommendation is for them to nationalize and recover 
their  natural  resources.  Natural  resources  cannot 
belong to transnational corporations; they belong to the 
peoples of the world, under State administration. 
they  cannot  be 
I  would  also  like  to  say  that  there  have  been 
social  changes.  Through  a  constituent  assembly,  we 
have  guaranteed  basic  services  as  a  human  right. 
Consequently, 
in  private  hands. 
It  is  a  task  for  the  State.  Water,  electricity  and 
communications  —  we  have  nationalized  them  and 
turned them into human rights. It is very important that 
those  basic  services  be  human  rights.  While  we  still 
have some problems in Bolivia with electricity, we will 
continue  to  work  to  ensure  that  that  basic  service  is  a 
human right as well. 
I  am  here  to  share  our  brief  experience  with 
Governments,  presidents,  ambassadors  and  prime 
ministers. Where there is the will to change, there will 
be change. It depends to a large extent on willingness, 
constant  efforts  to  educate  our  people  and  transparent 
work.  Of  course,  we  still  have  so  many  demands  to 
meet  —  sometimes,  too,  exaggerated  demands  from  a 
particular  social  sector  or  region  —  but  regardless  of 
our  interests  or  claims,  our  homeland  and  humankind 
as a whole come first.
Dealing  as  we  are  with  the  problems  we  have  in 
Bolivia and the world with climate issues, I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  an  invitation  to  an 
international  meeting  on  21  December  to  greet  a  new 
era,  an  invitation  to  the  celebration  of  the  end  of  the 
cycle of non-time and the beginning of a new cycle of 
equilibrium  and  harmony  for  Mother  Earth.  It  would 
14 
12-52219
take  too  long  here  to  go  into  the  knowledge  of  our 
indigenous brothers in Mexico, Guatemala, Bolivia and 
Ecuador, but basically we are issuing this invitation to a 
virtual — and actual — debate on the following topics.
First,  the  global  crisis  of  sapitalism;  second,  the 
crisis of civilization — world Government, capitalism, 
socialism,  community  and  the  culture  of  life;  third, 
the  crisis  of  climate  —  human  beings’  relationship  to 
nature;  fourth,  the  energy  of  community  and  change; 
fifth,  awareness  of  Mother  Earth;  sixth,  recovering 
ancestral practices and customs and the natural cosmic 
calendar; seventh, living the right way as a solution to 
the global crisis — because once again we affirm that 
we cannot live better by plundering natural resources, 
and that is a profound debate that we should have with 
the whole world; eighth, food sovereignty and security 
through food sovereignty; ninth, integration — through 
brotherhood,  community,  economy,  complementarity, 
the  right  to  communication,  and  community  learning 
for  life;  the  new  human  being  with  an  integrated 
identity; complementarity; self-knowledge, awakening 
and, of course, health, which is so important.
I  would  like  to  say  that  according  to  the  Mayan 
calendar,  21  December  marks  the  end  of  the  non-time 
and  the  beginning  of  time.  It  is  the  end  of  the 
macha  —  the  darkness  —  and  the  beginning  of  the 
pacha — communitarianism; it is the end of selfishness 
and  the  beginning  of  brotherhood;  it  is  the  end  of 
individualism  and  the  beginning  of  collectivism.  As 
scientists  know  very  well,  21  December  this  year 
marks  the  end  of  the  era  of  anthropocentrism  and  the 
beginning  of  biocentrism.  It  is  the  end  of  hatred  and 
the beginning of love, the end of lies and the beginning 
of truth, the end of sadness and the beginning of joy, it 
is the end of division and the beginning of unity. This 
is  a  theme  to  be  developed,  and  that  is  why  we  invite 
all those here, those who are betting on humankind, to 
share their experiences for the good of humankind.
As always, I would like to thank the President for 
these  debates  at  the  United  Nations.  We  are  always 
thinking  about  new  generations  and  about  the  good 
of  humankind,  although  sometimes  sectoral  interests 
intrude — but as representatives who come here from 
time to time, we have an obligation to think about how 
to  shoulder  our  responsibilities,  and  that  means,  as 
someone  said  just  now,  bringing  an  end  to  the  powers 
that be. This is not a time when we can continue to praise 
those powers; we are living in a time when peoples must 
be freed and where we must constantly seek economic 
A/67/PV.11
and social equality for all human beings, a time to bring 
dignity to every citizen.
I  would  like  to  commend  those  statements  that 
questioned interventionism, military bases and troops. 
There  will  be  social  peace  only  when  we  change  such 
political  and  economic  policies  and  put  an  end  to 
military bases and interventionism. My respect goes to 
those  who  resist  military  intervention  by  the  Powers, 
which  is  not  a  solution.  That  is  something  we  have 
learned, and that is why we hope that these debates will 
serve to help us think about life and humanity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Constitutional President 
of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  for  the  statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Ms. Isatou Njie-Saidy, 
Vice-President and Minister for Women’s 
Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President and Minister for 
Women’s Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia.
Ms. Isatou Njie-Saidy, Vice-President and Minister 
for Women’s Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Isatou  Njie-Saidy, 
Vice-President and Minister for Women’s Affairs of the 
Republic of the Gambia, and inviting her to address the 
General Assembly.
Ms.  Njie-Saidy  (Gambia):  I  have  the  singular 
honour  of  reading  the  statement  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Al Hadji Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, the President of the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  who  would  have  loved  to  be 
here today but was unable to so, owing to unavoidable 
circumstances. However, he sends his best wishes to all 
present. I will now read his statement.
“First  and  foremost,  I 
the 
Almighty,  for  making  another  annual  gathering 
of  world  leaders  possible.  I  would  first  like  to 
thank  Allah, 
12-52219
15
A/67/PV.11
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  and 
wish  him  success  in  his  tenure  as  he  manages  the 
affairs of the Assembly. Let me also pay tribute to 
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
tireless  leadership  and  sterling  contribution  to  the 
creation of a better world for all.
“Our  world  unquestionably  continues  to  be 
plagued by numerous challenges that can be solved 
only  through  our  collective  response.  Multilateral 
diplomacy  and  institutions  surely  offer  the  best 
hope yet for tackling our development conundrums, 
protracted  conflicts  and  man-made  and  natural 
disasters.
“Peace  and  security  will  always  remain  a 
cornerstone of the Organization and for that reason 
my  delegation  is  concerned  with  the  matter  and 
welcomes  the  President’s  choice  of  the  theme 
‘Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international  disputes  or  situations  by  peaceful 
means’.
“As we speak, many conflicts are raging around 
the  world  in  ways  that  challenge  the  credibility 
and  clout  of  the  Organization.  The  paralysis 
displayed by our common security mechanisms, for 
example, is astounding. Geopolitical interests have 
trampled  the  goodwill  and  humanitarian  concerns 
that  should  compel  us  all  to  address  those  raging 
infernos — be they in the Middle East, Asia, Africa 
or elsewhere. Our collective security will continue 
to  be  undermined  by  geopolitical  considerations, 
unless  and  until  we  find  the  courage  to  reform  the 
Security  Council.  Ongoing  conflicts,  for  example 
in  Mali,  Guinea-Bissau  and  Syria,  are  all  recent 
cases in point. The Security Council should not be 
the  stumbling  block  in  the  way  of  the  settlement 
of  disputes  by  peaceful  or  other  means.  Rather,  it 
should be a more helpful institution.
“My  delegation  is  fully  aware  of  the  need  for 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  some  of  the  conflicts 
in  Africa,  but  we  are  equally  aware  of  the  need 
for  robust  action  in  dealing  with  the  spoilers  and 
merchants  of  death  and  misery  in  the  continent. 
The  Economic  Community  of  West African  States 
is  working  to  find  solutions  to  all  those  conflicts 
but needs, of course, the support of the international 
community.
“We  see  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  as 
a  partner  and  enabler  of  decisive  action,  but  time 
is  running  out.  The  elements  of  doom  have  been 
emboldened  by  our  inaction.  The  United  Nations 
and the United Nations Office for West Africa must 
work  decisively  to  address  the  conflicts  in  Mali 
and Guinea-Bissau without delay. The engagement 
of  the  African  Union  (AU)  will  undoubtedly  be 
crucial.  Terrorists,  drug  dealers  and  organized 
criminal networks should be stopped in their tracks 
at all costs before it is too late.
“The relevance of the Organization has at times 
been  questioned,  but  one  element  that  remains 
unchallenged  is  its  character  as  the  best  forum 
for  confronting  global  challenges.  As  we  convene 
to  discuss  the  issues  of  climate  change,  economic 
crises,  financial  turmoil,  food  insecurity,  conflicts, 
fighting disease and poverty, or the special interests 
of Africa, the convening power of the United Nations 
confers  a  legitimacy  that  is  indeed  unparalleled 
elsewhere.
“As developing countries, we therefore believe 
in the work that this Organization of ours does, and 
it is for that reason that we will support the efforts of 
the President of the General Assembly to revitalize 
it — as the voice for the voiceless.
“We  also  use  this  forum  to  call  on  the 
international  financial  institutions  to  open  up 
and  embrace  overdue  reforms.  They  should  be 
transparent  and  inclusive  and  raise  the  profile 
of  their  smallest  members,  such  as  low-income 
countries or least developed countries (LDCs). We 
call on them to embrace the Istanbul Programme of 
Action for LDCs.
“The  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action  must  not 
become  a  string  of  broken  promises,  unfulfilled 
commitments  and  weak  resource  mobilization, 
as  happened  with  its  predecessors.  As  LDCs  we 
are  ready  to  hold  ourselves  accountable  for  the 
implementation  of  the  commitments  we  made  in 
Istanbul. We are equally ready to meet the targets set 
out in the Programme. It is therefore our collective 
hope,  expectation  and  belief  that  our  partners  and 
the  rest  of  the  international  community  will  also 
fulfil  their  commitments  and  uphold  their  part  of 
the  bargain.  Let  us  work  together  to  bring  about 
the graduation of half of the LDCs by 2020, in line 
with the target we set ourselves. It is achievable if 
we all forge the appropriate global partnerships for 
resource mobilization.
16 
12-52219
“The scorecard on the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) shows that, while some achievements 
have been made with regard to some of the Goals, a 
great deal still remains to be achieved. My country 
has achieved some of the key elements of the MDGs 
and is on track to meet all of them. In view of the 
fact  that  2015  is  just  around  the  corner,  we  need 
to  do  more  to  mobilize  the  remaining  resources 
required to further improve the critical links needed 
for success on the achievement of the MDGs.
“Critical to the achievement of the MDGs will 
be  the  scaling  up  of  resources  by  enhancing  the 
global  partnerships  that  we  have  forged  for  the 
Goals.  We  must  mobilize  the  modest  resources 
that  are  needed  so  that  2015  will  not  be  another 
unfulfilled milestone.
“The United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20) has defined the mechanisms 
through  which  sustainable  development  goals 
should be negotiated and agreed upon. It is our hope 
that  the  consultations  on  the  post-Rio  mechanisms 
will  be  inclusive,  transparent  and  representative. 
Beyond  managing  the  depleting  resources  of  the 
Earth, we must all push for ambitious and realistic 
goals  and  targets  on  sustainable  food,  water  and 
energy. We must also take into account the special 
situations  of  LDCs  and  other  vulnerable  groups  of 
countries.
“My  delegation  is  of  the  strong  belief  that,  in 
the euphoria for sustainable development goals, the 
drive  towards  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  must 
not  be  compromised  in  any  way.  We  must  hold 
ourselves  accountable  for  meeting  the  Goals  by 
2015,  and  not  try  to  shift  the  goalposts  when  the 
deadline is close at hand. We must also lay a solid 
groundwork for the post-2015 development agenda.
“For developing countries to continue to benefit 
from the appreciable growth they are experiencing 
and  in  order  not  to  compromise  their  capacities 
to  provide  education,  health  care  and  other  social 
services  to  their  peoples,  debt  cancellation  or 
forgiveness  is  still  a  key  element.  Debt  servicing 
still  poses  a  major  threat  to  our  ability  to  attain 
sustainable growth. It is our belief that our partners 
and the Bretton Woods institutions should consider 
the further extension of the Heavily Indebted Poor 
Countries Initiative.
A/67/PV.11
“As we strive in the Sahel to deal with drought 
and  the  crop  failure  of  the  past  year,  allow  me 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  laudable 
efforts,  as  we  heard  today,  through  his  initiative 
for the Sahel and for his plans to assist the region, 
including  Mali.  We  thank  him  for  that  initiative, 
which we look forward to seeing realized. We also 
thank  all  our  development partners  for  the  support 
they have rendered, both to my Government and to 
the  Sahel.  We  are  grateful  for  their  solidarity  and 
humanitarian  support.  In  view  of  the  perennial 
nature  of  food  insecurity  in  our  region,  it  is  my 
humble  and  considered  view  that  the  international 
community  needs  to  do  more  to  render  greater 
support to the agricultural sector of our economies.
“The role of the small-scale farmer needs to be 
boosted, and we must, through global partnerships, 
fast-track the numerous agricultural initiatives that 
have been announced to support African agriculture. 
Agricultural systems across Africa need to be made 
more  resilient  in  terms  of  inputs,  technological 
know-how,  scientific  research  and  the  setting  up 
of  related  training  institutions. The African  farmer 
needs  to  benefit  from  modern  farming  techniques 
and  technology.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  Government  and  people  of  Australia 
for  their  outstanding  generosity  towards  boosting 
agriculture and food security in Africa.
“With 
the  establishment  of  UN-Women, 
the  United  Nations  took  a  great  step  forward 
in  mainstreaming  the  gender  dimension  into  its 
work.  As  an  ardent  supporter  of  women’s  rights 
and  participation  in  all  sectors  of  society,  I  must 
commend  UN-Women  for  the  way  it  has  been 
evolving. We  look  forward  to  the  establishment  of 
its regional offices. We will work with all concerned 
to  advance  the  promotion  of  the  rights  of  women 
and girls, once we assume our position as a member 
of  the  Executive  Board.  Advancing  the  welfare  of 
women,  which  starts  with  girls  as  future  women, 
will always be a priority for my Government. 
“Africa  is  indeed  witnessing  a  revolution  in 
information  and  communications 
technology, 
which  is  a  critical  sector  for  us.  Our  considered 
view  is  that,  with  the  completion  of  the  Africa 
Coast  to  Europe  submarine  cable  network,  there 
will be an even greater transformation in that very 
important  sector.  It  should  further  help  to  increase 
12-52219
17
A/67/PV.11
the transfer of critical technology for the economic 
advancement of our peoples.
now,  we  hope,  equally  be  shown  in  Mali  and 
Guinea-Bissau.
“In  that  project  we  see  a  great  opportunity  for 
South-South  and  North-South  cooperation  in  ways 
that  will  revolutionize  education,  agriculture  and 
the  provision  of  health  care,  among  other  areas. 
We  therefore  call  on  our  partners  to  support  the 
growth  of  the  information  and  communications 
technology  sector  with  a  view  to  enhancing  our 
productive  capacity,  while  also  generating  youth 
employment,  since  youth  unemployment  is  one  of 
the greatest threats to humankind and to our social 
and  economic  advancement.  We  must  therefore 
form  partnerships  across  the  globe  to  address  that 
dangerous phenomenon, which is a disaster waiting 
to happen. 
“Allow  me  to  address  some  recent  conflicts 
that  threaten  the  peace  and  stability  of Africa  and 
the  world  at  large.  Our  youth,  for  example,  are 
being sucked into conflicts and a life of crime, with 
their  productive  talents  being  wasted.  Our  modest 
gains  are  being  wiped  out  through  instability,  and 
even  our  societal  cohesion  is  seriously  threatened. 
If  we  do  not  act  fast  now,  we  risk  creating  more 
upheavals,  which  will  overwhelm  our  capacity  to 
contain  them.  The  international  community  will 
therefore pay a very high price if it does not wake 
up from its slumber and solve the situations in Mali 
and Guinea-Bissau that I highlighted earlier.
“In  West  Africa,  our  ongoing 
security 
challenges  are  being  compounded  by 
such 
situations.  ECOWAS  should  not  be  left  alone  to 
shoulder the burden of those conflicts. I am elated 
by the fact that, this morning, the issues of Mali, the 
entire  Sahel  and  the  Maghreb  were  discussed. The 
AU  and  ECOWAS  are  ready,  and  I  hope  that  the 
international  community,  particularly  the  Security 
Council,  is  also  ready.  The  AU  is  ready  to  act  to 
salvage  the  situations  in  Mali  and  Guinea-Bissau. 
The Security Council must, as I have said, act with 
a sense of greater urgency. We cannot let terrorists, 
drug dealers and organized criminal gangs establish 
a sanctuary in our backyard.
“In  line  with  our  foreign  policy,  the  Gambia 
stands ready, as always, to contribute meaningfully 
to  the  settlement  of  such  conflicts.  The  level  of 
steadfastness  shown  in  solving  the  conflicts  in 
Liberia  and  Sierra  Leone  some  years  ago  must 
“The  situation  in  Darfur  continues  to  occupy 
the attention of my delegation, as well. We call for 
more  dialogue  in  finding  a  lasting  solution  to  that 
major conflict. We are equally concerned about the 
lingering  conflict  between  the  Sudan  and  South 
Sudan.  Dialogue  is  essential,  and  is  the  only  way 
forward  to  solve  that  conflict.  The  parties  must 
implement  the  recommendations  of  the  African 
Union  High-level  Implementation  Panel  and  those 
of the road map.
the 
same  magnanimity 
“As  they  embark  on  settling  the  outstanding 
to 
issues,  we  urge  our  brothers  and  sisters 
demonstrate 
and 
extraordinary  statesmanship  that  characterized  the 
establishment of the independence of South Sudan. 
They should remember that they will be neighbours 
forever and, as such, are mutually dependent upon 
each other for their national security.
“Let  me  commend  the  forces  of  the  African 
Union Mission in Somalia, the United Nations and 
the  African  Union  for  the  progress  that  they  are 
making in Somalia. The pressure must be sustained 
until all of Somalia is liberated and is placed under 
the  sole  authority  of  the  Somali  Government. 
Insecurity  and  piracy  must  be  stamped  out.  The 
spoilers must be denied sanctuary, lest they continue 
destabilizing the whole of the Horn of Africa.
“As we dwell on such situations, we are equally 
concerned  about  the  conflicts  ravaging  the  Middle 
East. Afghanistan, for example, has been in a state 
of  unrest  for  too  long.  It  is  time  that  Afghans  be 
given  enough  space  and  capacity  to  solve  their 
problems. Home-grown and inclusive dialogue and 
national reconciliation are the best way forward to 
lasting peace and stability in that country.
“We  all  witnessed  the  dramatic  and  historic 
events  that  have  recently  transformed  parts  of  the 
Middle East and Africa. It is therefore our hope that 
those  transformations  will  endure  and  will  nurture 
the  ideals  of  peace,  security,  development  and 
democracy. We  must  not  lose  sight  of  some  of  the 
negative concomitant effects of those upheavals, as 
is currently evident in Syria.
“My  delegation  believes  that  the  Annan  plan 
could  have  brought  about  stability  and  could  have 
18 
12-52219
provided the space for dialogue among the parties, 
if  it  had  been  given  a  chance.  It  seems  that  there 
is  lack  of  goodwill  and  trust  among  the  parties, 
as  well  as  the  invisible  hand  of  external  elements 
determined  to  achieve  a  particular  outcome.  Syria 
is  now  a  deeply  divided  society.  The  international 
community  is  partly  to  blame  on  account  of  its 
inaction.
inevitable. 
“The Palestinian situation is indeed deplorable. 
It  has  deteriorated  to  the  point  that  a  one-State 
solution  may  be 
In  defiance  of 
international  law,  human  decency  and  restraint, 
Israel, the occupying Power, is imposing a de facto 
situation  on  Palestinians  through  its  despicable 
settlement  activity  and  land  seizures.  The  sad 
reality  is  that  it  is  the  mechanisms  of  the  Security 
Council, which are constantly invoked, that further 
delay  or  stifle  the  action  necessary  to  bring  about 
lasting  peace 
Israel’s  excesses, 
namely, the land seizures, settlement activity, mass 
imprisonment  of  Palestinians,  denial  of  revenue, 
maiming  and  murder  of  Palestinians  by  the  State 
apparatus  and  many  others,  must  be  halted.  The 
truth is bitter when told, but it will set us all free.
in  Palestine. 
“Let  me  also  address  some  burning  political 
issues of our time. The embargo imposed on Cuba 
by  the  United  States  50  years  ago  is  still  in  place 
for  no  justifiable  reason.  Even  if  perhaps  it  made 
sense  at  the  time,  keeping  it  in  place  today  does 
not make any sense at all. It is shameful that, in the 
twenty-first  century,  a  Cold  War  relic  remains  the 
main  stumbling  block  between  the  establishment 
of  good-neighbourly  relations  and  the  rejection  of 
empty  political  cacophony  in  some  quarters.  We 
therefore  call  upon  the  United  States  to  lift  the 
embargo  and  throw  it  into  the  dustbin  of  history, 
where it rightfully belongs.
“My  delegation  would  also  like  to  use  this 
rostrum  to  appeal  to  the  collective  membership  of 
the  United  Nations,  including  China,  to  contribute 
to  opening  the  avenues  for  Taiwan’s  membership 
in  the  various  funds,  agencies,  treaty  bodies 
and  programmes.  That  would  only  enhance  the 
effectiveness of those bodies for our mutual benefit. 
The  world,  not  only Taiwan,  stands  to  benefit. We 
all agree that Taiwan is a key player in technology, 
international trade, politics and many other areas. It 
has  enduring  ties  with  China. We  therefore  appeal 
for the practical extension of the rapport that Taiwan 
A/67/PV.11
has  with  China  to  the  international  stage.  China 
conducts  trade,  business  and  tourism  with Taiwan. 
As I speak, both are engaging in discussing a range 
of  bilateral  issues.  The  rest  of  the  international 
community,  including  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations,  should  follow  suit.  Avenues  for 
dialogue must be opened.
“The  stalled  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
is  disheartening  and  even  dangerous.  Year  in  and 
year  out,  we  come  to  the  General  Assembly.  We 
meet  in  various  forums  to  discuss  the  issues.  We 
hold  dialogues  and  exchanges  and  come  up  with 
proposals.  Then  we  get  nowhere.  I  will  mention 
what  Kofi Annan  said  at  the  time  of  launching  his 
well-known  report  “In  larger  freedom:  towards 
development,  security  and  human  rights  for  all” 
(A/59/2005),  namely,  that  no  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  is  complete  without  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. I think that is critical. It is as valid 
now  as  it  was  when  it  was  said  seven  years  ago. 
The  resistance  to  change  should  come  to  an  end. 
The  paralysis  of  the  reform  agenda  must  come  to 
an end. We cannot afford as a group to be in a state 
of  coma  when  larger  regional  interests,  especially 
those of Africa, are at stake and get shunted around 
or jettisoned. Africa needs to be at the table and we 
will not budge on that demand, as previous speakers 
have said and as our heads of State have reiterated 
here.  We  must  reform  or  risk  delegitimizing  the 
actions taken, and the decisions made, in the name 
of our collective security.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
“Allow  me,  at  this  point,  to  recognize  the 
appointment  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson, 
the  new  Deputy  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  have  confidence  in  his  abilities 
and  experience  as  an  astute  statesman.  We  are 
also  aware  of  his  keen  interest  in  Africa  and  his 
engagement  with  our  continent  at  various  periods 
in his diplomatic life. We therefore look forward to 
jointly  advancing  the  special  needs  of Africa  with 
him under the guidance of the Secretary-General.
“On  a  final  note,  it  is  my  hope  that  the  next 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  will  consider 
other  themes  beyond  that  of  peace  and  security, 
although  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  peace  and 
12-52219
19
A/67/PV.11
security are critical. Where possible an intermarriage 
of themes might also be considered.”
I wish all members a successful General Assembly 
session.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  and  Minister  for  Women’s  Affairs    of 
the  Republic  of  the  Gambia  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Ms. Isatou Njie-Saidy, Vice-President and Minister 
for Women’s Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of 
the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium.
Mr. Elio di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elio 
di  Rupo,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Belgium, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Di Rupo (Belgium) (spoke in French): First of 
all,  on  behalf  of  my  country,  I  would  like  to  welcome 
the  broad  vision  and  the  pertinence  of  the  ideas  put 
forward by the Secretary-General.
I  come  from  Belgium,  one  of  the  six  founding 
countries of the European Union (EU), a multicultural 
union  of  500  million  people  who,  as  President  Obama 
has reminded us, live in peace — something that I wish 
for  the  entire  world  —  after  experiencing  horrifying 
wars.
Belgium  provides  a  unique  setting  for  political 
decisions  and  international  meetings.  Brussels  is 
the  capital  of  Europe  and  also  the  seat  of  NATO 
headquarters.  We  are  naturally  open  to  the  world.  I 
myself come from the city of Mons, which will be the 
European  cultural  capital  in  2015.  In  2014,  Belgium 
will  solemnly  commemorate  the  centennial  of  the 
start  of  the  sad  and  painful  First  World  War.  We  will 
do  so  in  memory  of  the  young  people  from  more  than 
50 countries who, on our territory, defended the ideals 
of  peace  and  freedom.  In  2013,  Antwerp  will  host  the 
World Outgames, a gathering of tolerance and diversity, 
while the city of Liège is a candidate to host the World’s 
Fair in 2017. All those international events have a single 
goal: to bring us closer together and to mobilize around 
universal values.
For  my  country,  respect  for  life  and  human  rights 
is fundamental. Whether we speak of the rights of the 
child, of women or of refugees, or of the struggle against 
all  forms  of  discrimination,  a  single  principle  guides 
my country: the effective equality of all human beings, 
regardless of status or beliefs. In that light, Belgium will 
join  Slovenia  in  sponsoring  a  draft  resolution  against 
racial discrimination. I hope members will support it. 
All heads of State and ministers share an immense 
collective responsibility to ensure that women become 
equal  to  men  worldwide  at  the  political,  social  and 
economic  levels;  to  ensure  that  little  girls  are  no 
longer  subjected  to  circumcision;  and  that  acts  of 
violence  against  women  are  systematically  fought  and 
eliminated. 
In  my  country,  women  head  three  ministries:  the 
Ministry  of  Justice,    the  Ministry  of  the  Interior  and 
the  Ministry  of  the  Police.  Significant  efforts  have 
also  been  made  to  more  effectively  combat  domestic 
violence.  Our  national  laws  prohibit  and  punish  all 
forms of discrimination, whether on the basis of gender 
or that of claimed race, disability or sexual orientation. 
In  my  country,  both  marriage  and  adoption  are  open 
to  same-sex  couples.  Those  are  grounds  for  pride  in 
Belgium. 
With the support of several countries of the European 
Union,  Belgium  invites  members  to  take  vigorous, 
concerted  action  in  various  realms  of  social  life.  I  am 
thinking first and foremost of the decriminalization of 
sexual  orientation  and  the  promotion  of  the  rights  of 
lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and  transgender  people.  In  that 
regard, I welcome the initiative of UNESCO to counter 
homophobia in schools.
For  my  country,  freedom  of  religion,  which  is  to 
say  the  freedom  to  practise  or  not  practise  a  religion,  
is  fundamental.  Belgium  unequivocally  condemns 
Islamophobia.  We  just  as  firmly  condemn  violence, 
which  is  unacceptable  in  all  cases.  We  believe  that 
human  beings  should  be  free  to  think  what  they  wish 
and  be  able  to  express  their  indignation  without  ever 
resorting  to  violence.  Diplomatic  missions  should  be 
inviolable throughout the world. It is not by oppressing 
human  beings  or  promoting  violence 
the 
that 
20 
12-52219
fundamental challenges of prosperity, the well-being of 
citizens and peace will be resolved.  
Belgium 
importance 
attaches  particular 
to 
strengthening the rule of law throughout the world.  The 
reason for that is simple: in my country we are convinced 
that  the  rule  of  law  is  necessary  for  development  and 
prosperity. It contributes to a better world, because the 
purpose  of  the  rule  of  law  is  to  enable  every  human 
being  to  live,  f lourish  and  love  in  complete  freedom. 
For  that  reason,  and  in  the  spirit  of  mutual  human 
respect,  we  support  the  principle  of  the  responsibility 
to  protect  victims  of  violence  wherever  they  are.  In 
the  same  spirit,  Belgium  responded  to  the  Secretary-
General’s call by instituting 17 specific projects.
The rule of law and the enforcement of respect for 
human  rights  require  us  to  step  up  the  fight  against 
impunity.  Belgium  will  continue  its  policy  of  active 
cooperation with international criminal tribunals. The 
action of the International Criminal Court will help to 
usher in an era of responsibility. It is incumbent upon all 
States  to  cooperate  with  the  Court.  Belgium,  together 
with  Slovenia  and  the  Netherlands,  calls  on  all  States 
represented  here  to  improve  international  cooperation 
in mutual legal assistance and extradition. 
As 
the  President  of  Brazil  pointed  out 
(see  A/67/PV.6),  the  effects  of  the  economic  crisis 
and  financial  speculation  are  felt  by  every  household. 
When  the  balance  sheets  of  banks  represent  300  per 
cent,  400  per  cent  or  600  per  cent  of  gross  domestic 
product — indeed, even more in some countries — we 
should not be surprised that there is a direct link between 
bank  management  and  the  economic  and  budgetary 
health of sovereign States. In many countries in-depth 
studies have been carried out and decisions taken, but 
clearly that is not enough. That is because the financial 
world operates in line with the rhythm of its own peculiar 
logic.  Here  at  the  United  States  the  phenomenon  is 
better  understood  than  elsewhere.  Programme  trading 
dominates  financial  exchanges.  The  software  reacts  a 
million  times  faster  than  human  traders,  buying  and 
selling thousands of shares every millionth of a second. 
We must work together here at the international level to 
establish oversight mechanisms for the financial world, 
with a view to ensuring that it again assists more in job 
creation  and  that  it    steers  clear  of  risky  management 
practices that compromise the economic and budgetary 
health of nations. 
In Belgium we are working on the issue nationally 
and  within  the  eurozone.  But  an  agreed  international 
A/67/PV.11
approach  is  becoming  indispensable.  Beyond  such 
in-depth reforms in the banking and financial sectors, 
let us also dare to tax financial transactions. It is high 
time  that  income  derived  from  that  source  be  used  to 
promote prosperity for our people. 
The  Assembly  is  committed  to  the  follow-up 
to  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development. We can never underline enough that we 
must break with an economic development model that 
devours natural resources and energy. Belgium supports 
the  Secretary-General’s  Sustainable  Energy  for  All 
initiative.  It  also  stresses  the  importance  of  merging 
within one process the Millennium Development Goals 
and the sustainable development goals.
I would like to turn to some regional issues that my 
country  finds  especially  disturbing  and  tragic.  In  the 
Great Lakes region, the situation in the eastern part of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  resurgent 
violence  and  the  Mouvement  du  23  Mars  rebellion 
greatly  concern  the  Belgian  Government,  especially 
because  of  their  serious  impact  on  local  populations. 
We see images of massacres, rape, forced recruitment, 
including  of  children,  pillaging,  400,000  internally 
displaced persons — all of it completely unacceptable. 
Belgium  calls  upon  the  countries  of  the  region  to 
redouble  their  efforts  to  put  an  end  to  the  current 
rebellion. We also call for a response to the root causes 
of instability in the Great Lakes region. We commend 
the Secretary-General’s attention to the region and his 
initiative  in  calling  a  high-level  meeting  tomorrow 
on  the  crisis.  Our  Foreign  Minister  will  attend,  and 
Belgium stands ready to do what it can to help. 
The territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  must  categorically  be  respected.  All 
external  support  for  the  rebels  must  stop.  Let  us  not 
delude  ourselves.  Denying  the  facts  does  not  make 
them disappear. The facts on the ground give the lie to 
all denials. Belgium calls on all countries in the Great 
Lakes region to pledge to respect the sovereignty of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Belgium also urges 
the  Congolese  authorities  to  institute  the  necessary 
reforms  in  the  army  and  the  police  to  re-establish  the 
rule  of  law  in  the  whole  of  its  territory,  including, 
obviously, the eastern part. 
I  dearly  hope  that  reason  will  prevail.  Belgium  is 
ready to work to help restore trust among the countries 
of the region. We furthermore hope that direct relations 
between the President of the Democratic Republic of the 
12-52219
21
A/67/PV.11
Congo and the President of Rwanda can be established 
and that it will speed progress towards a solution. 
As  to  Syria,  we  are  all  deeply  concerned  by  the 
deteriorating  situation  of  an  impasse  on  the  ground, 
and  a  political  impasse  as  well.  We  are  appalled  by 
the  posture  of  a  regime  that  kills  its  own  citizens. 
Beyond  the  30,000  dead  there  are  at  least  250,000 
refugees  in  neighbouring  countries,  and  even  more 
internally displaced. How is it that the collective human 
conscience is not in agreement to stop the massacre? I 
say respectfully to the members of the Security Council 
that we cannot knowingly allow such human suffering 
to  go  on.  Unless  we  take  action  we  are  complicit  in 
crimes against humanity. 
Belgium  has  faith  in  and  supports  Joint  Special 
Representative Lakhdar Brahimi. Belgium also supports 
the efforts by Arab countries and hopes that they will 
be successful. We must all hope for a political solution. 
One thing is certain. Bashar Al-Assad must leave. The 
regime has lost all legitimacy. Given the urgency of the 
situation  and  the  approaching  winter,  Belgium  urges 
the international community to take concrete steps on 
the  humanitarian  front  and  to  come  to  the  aid  of  the 
millions of people affected. Humanitarian concerns are 
our highest priority. The Belgian Government provides 
financial support for humanitarian aid to the refugees.
In  that  connection,  I  will  allow  myself  to  insist 
that  my  country  demands  earnestly  that  a  solution  be 
found  to  enable  humanitarian  organizations  to  carry 
out  their  work,  particularly  in  hospitals,  in  line  with 
international humanitarian law. I believe that both the 
Chinese and Russian authorities will be able to join us 
in those objectives.
I  have  another  comment  concerning  the  region;  I 
wish to mention the Israeli-Palestinian conf lict. Belgium 
favours  the  rapid  resumption  of  negotiations  aimed 
at  finding  a  solution  based  on  the  coexistence  of  two 
States — the State of Israel and a State of Palestine that 
is independent, democratic, united and viable — living 
together in peace, security and prosperity.  We also wish 
to state very clearly our opposition to the continuation 
of colonization.
My country believes that multilateralism is the only 
way to improve conditions of our planet. Belgium is the 
fifteenth largest contributor to the United Nations. 
Let  us  have  the  courage  and  strength  to  agree  to 
free  humankind  from  wars  and  social  injustices,  and 
support  its  development.  I  invite  all  of  us  to  spur  our 
awareness. Let us demonstrate together our capacity to 
act.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium for the statement 
he has just made.
The  Honourable  Elio  di  Rupo,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Belgium,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by The Honourable Cheick Modibo 
Diarra, Prime Minister of the Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Mali.
The  Honourable  Cheick  Modibo  Diarra,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Cheick 
Modibo Diarra, Prime Minister of the Republic of Mali, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Diarra (Mali) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  pay  well-deserved  tribute  to  Chris 
Stevens  and  his  colleagues,  who  died  in  Benghazi  for 
the same ideals as those of our common Organization, 
the United Nations. 
Next,  I  wish  to  convey  the  warm  congratulations 
of  the  Malian  delegation  on  the  outstanding  election 
of  the  new  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  That 
choice confirms the recognition, were such needed, of 
his  qualities  as  a  skilled  diplomat.  It  is  also  a  tribute 
to  his  country,  Serbia,  which  maintains  friendly  and 
cooperative  relations  with  my  country.  The  President 
of the General Assembly can be assured of the Malian 
delegation’s  complete  readiness  to  work  with  him  for 
the full success of his mandate.
In the same spirit, I express my great appreciation 
to  his  distinguished  predecessor,  Ambassador  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the excellent manner in which 
he led the work of the previous session. I also take this 
opportunity to pay  warm tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his ongoing commitment to the ideals 
of the Organization.
22 
12-52219
The  settlement  of 
international  disputes  by 
peaceful  means,  which  the  President  proposed  as  the 
central  theme  of  the  general  debate,  is  timely,  as  it 
is  a  part  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, whose relevant provisions aim to limit hotbeds 
of tension through negotiation, mediation, conciliation, 
arbitration,  judicial  settlement,  resort  to  regional 
arrangements or agreements, or through other peaceful 
means.  The  subject  is  quite  current,  in  the  light  of 
the  many  crises  and  conf licts  that  seriously  threaten 
international peace and security. 
The  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful  means  is 
particularly  important  for  my  country,  Mali,  as  it  is  a 
country  that  is  firmly  attached  to  the  ideals  of  peace 
and  stability.  Despite  that,  today  it  is  undergoing  one 
of the most difficult periods in its history. Its northern 
part  has  been  occupied  by  armed  groups  consisting 
of  fundamentalist  terrorists,  drug  traffickers  and 
criminals  of  every  other  sort.  The  most  fundamental 
human  rights  are  being  violated  continuously  by  a 
horde of heartless and lawless vandals.
The  Government  of  Mali  has  just  requested  the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  consider  those  odious 
acts,  which  are  no  more  and  no  less  than  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  Whipping,  amputation, 
summary  execution,  rape,  stoning  and  looting  and 
destruction  of  cultural  and  historical  monuments  and 
sites are the daily lot of the aff licted and helpless people 
of northern Mali.
That  sad  situation  led  the  interim  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Mali  to  request,  on  1  September,  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  for 
assistance  in  recovering  the  occupied  territories  and 
fighting terrorism. Similar requests have been made to 
the  Security  Council  through  the  Secretary-General, 
as well as to the French Republic, the United States of 
America, the African Union and the European Union.
However,  I  would  like  to  firmly  emphasize  that  a 
lasting  solution  to  the  situation  in  the  Sahel  requires 
stronger  and  more  dynamic  cooperation  among  the 
States  of  the  Sahel-Saharan  region.  In  that  vein,  the 
Government of Mali remains in favour of the convening 
of a meeting of heads of State and Government of the 
Sahel  region,  with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations 
and  other  partners,  in  order  to  support  and  strengthen 
capacities  and 
the  arrangement  for  coordinating 
existing regional mechanisms.
A/67/PV.11
In  the  specific  case  of  our  common  area,  the 
neighbouring  countries  of  Algeria,  Mali,  Mauritania 
and  the  Niger  have  set  up  mechanisms,  such  as  the 
joint  operational  military  staff  committee  based  in 
Tamanrasset, Algeria, and others involving joint patrols 
and the right of pursuit. But we must recognize that those 
mechanisms need to be fully operational. In that regard, 
I would like to call for the support of the international 
community for their effective implementation.
My  delegation  would  like  to  strongly  emphasize 
that the aggression and occupation in the northern part 
of Mali is a major collateral consequence of the Libyan 
crisis,  as  indicated  in  the  report  of  the  joint  United 
Nations/African Union mission to assess the impact of 
the Libyan crisis in the Sahel region (see S/2012/42). 
The  Security  Council  considered  that  report  in 
January (see S/PV.6709).
The  presence  today  of  terrorist  groups  of  various 
nationalities  on  our  soil  and  in  the  Sahel  region  is  a 
situation  that  should  mobilize  the  entire  international 
community  to  take  joint,  rapid  and  effective  action, 
because  that  threat  knows  no  bounds.  Here  I  should 
like to reiterate the determination of the Government of 
Mali to continue the work that it has begun jointly with 
other  core  countries  in  the  framework  of  the  combat 
against  terrorism,  transnational  organized  crime  and 
irredentist,  subversive  forces  in  the  Sahelo-Saharan 
region.
In  parallel  with  that  approach,  I  should  like  to 
reaffirm  the  commitment  undertaken  by  the  interim 
President  and  the  Government  of  Mali  to  negotiate 
with  our  compatriots  who  are  not  terrorists.  I  have 
said  it  before  and  I  will  say  it  again  from  this  United 
Nations rostrum: we in Mali are not afraid or ashamed 
of negotiating, but we will not negotiate with terrorists. 
We  are  not  prepared  to  negotiate  issues  that  call  into 
question  the  integrity  of  our  territory  and  the  secular 
nature of the country.
in  a  deterioration 
The situation in northern Mali due to the occupation 
has  resulted 
in  humanitarian 
conditions,  which  were  already  precarious  owing  to 
the f low of internally displaced persons and of people 
seeking  refuge  in  neighbouring  countries.  Because  of 
the  crisis,  more  than  350,000  people  have  had  to  f lee 
northern  Mali,  including  84,000  internally  displaced 
persons and more than 268,000 others who are refugees 
in neighbouring countries. The crisis has also hampered 
access  to  education  for  more  than  560,000  school-age 
12-52219
23
A/67/PV.11
children,  300,000  of  whom  were  in  school  before  the 
crisis began.
There has also been damage to educational facilities 
and equipment. In addition, 85 per cent of all teachers 
and 10,000 pupils have been displaced to the south, and 
50,000  school-age  children  are  now  in  neighbouring 
countries. Furthermore, schools have been occupied by 
f lood-affected people in the south.
As the Assembly is aware, Mali is facing tremendous 
humanitarian  needs  in  terms  of  housing,  food,  health, 
education and nutrition for refugees, displaced persons 
and  wage  earners.  During  his  stay  in  the  region,  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees stated 
on 31 July 2012 that the crisis in Mali was “one of the 
most  neglected  humanitarian  situations  in  the  world”. 
He said that from an appeal for $153 million, his Office 
had  received  only  about  $49  million  to  deal  with  that 
humanitarian crisis.
The  Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian 
Affairs,  Ms.  Valerie  Amos  noted  during  her  visit  to 
Mali  in  August  that  $213  million  was  needed  to  deal 
with the humanitarian crisis that is currently affecting 
my country. That shows that the humanitarian situation 
is continuing to deteriorate, thus increasing the cost of 
intervention.
Here  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  gratitude  of  the 
people  and  the  Government  of  Mali  to  all  brotherly 
countries  and  all  partners  of  goodwill  for  their 
hospitality  in  hosting  our  compatriots  and  for  their 
generous  contributions.  I  therefore  call  for  a  greater 
mobilization  by  all  of  Mali’s  partners  and  friends  as 
well as the coordination of aid for Mali nationals who 
are displaced or refugees.
Our Government of National Unity was established 
on  20  August  2012,  with  the  fundamental  mission  of 
quickly  liberating  the  northern  regions  of  the  country 
and  of  holding  democratic,  transparent,  just  and 
credible elections. With a view to recovering territorial 
integrity, we are calling for the adoption by the Security 
Council of a resolution authorizing, under Chapter VII 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  intervention  by 
an international military force so as to help the Malian 
army to retake and ensure the security of our national 
territory.
The  Government  of  Mali  would  like  to  see  the 
immediate arrival of such a force to support the defence 
and security forces of Mali in carrying out their noble 
mission  of  recovering  and  maintaining  our  territorial 
integrity  and  of  protecting  persons  and  property.  The 
people  of  Mali  continue  to  hope  that  the  members  of 
the Security Council will give due consideration to that 
request.
I  should  therefore  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate the gratitude of the people and the Government 
of  Mali  to  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States, the African Union and to the United Nations for 
their ongoing efforts to put a lasting end to the crisis in 
Mali, which also threatens the stability of the subregion 
and of Africa, and even beyond.
Our  meetings  are  taking  place  at  a  time  when 
developing countries are facing many major challenges, 
in  particular  the  consequences  of  the  economic  and 
financial crisis, the burden of external debt and a decline 
in development assistance. There is therefore a need to 
undertake  a  more  in-depth  dialogue  on  new  strategies 
aimed  at  mobilizing  additional  stable  and  predictable 
resources  so  as  to  ensure  financing  for  development 
programmes  and  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, in particular in the areas of health, 
education, food security and the environment.
Climate change is one of the major challenges facing 
the world. The very survival of our planet is threatened 
by natural disasters caused by that phenomenon, which 
is  seriously  affecting  living  conditions  in  countries  of 
the Sahel such as mine through, inter alia, the inexorable 
advance of the desert; the silting of rivers, in particular 
the  river  Niger;  ecosystem  deterioration;  f loods;  and 
problematic precipitation patterns. 
I should like to highlight the need to find appropriate 
responses to this serious situation so as to avert tragic 
repercussions  for  sustainable  development  in  the  most 
vulnerable countries.
The United Nations has a pivotal role to play in the 
building of a new world order that is based on justice, 
solidarity  and  sustainable  development.  In  order  to 
tackle  current  and  future  challenges,  it  is  important 
that  the  current  mode  of  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations be reviewed so as to take into account the new 
configuration  of  the  world,  which  is  fundamentally 
different  from  that  which  prevailed  at  the  time  of  its 
founding.  Such  a  review  should,  inter  alia,  make  it 
possible to correct the historical imbalance that results 
in  the  continued  exclusion  of  Africa  from  the  limited 
circle  of  the  countries  that  are  permanent  members  of 
the Security Council.
24 
12-52219
A/67/PV.11
To  conclude,  I  hope  that  all  present  will  agree 
with me that the situation in Mali is a manifestation of 
security problems in the Sahel and that it should be dealt 
with  comprehensively  through  the  appropriate  United 
Nations mechanisms. It is therefore urgent to act, first 
of all to put an end to the suffering of the people of Mali, 
and secondly to prevent the development of a similar or 
worse situation for other peoples in the Sahel, or even 
the rest of the world.
It is also urgent to act because criminal and terrorist 
activities  in  northern  Mali  and  the  security  risks  that 
they pose for the entire subregion are in the long term a 
serious threat to the rest of the world. 
Finally, it is urgent to act so as to resume cooperation 
with  our  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  so  as  to 
consolidate a republic based on secular and democratic 
values.
Today  my  people  are  seriously  affected.  But 
Malians have not lost hope, because they are convinced 
of  the  support  of  other  nations,  whose  leaders  and 
respresentatives are here. Malians in both the north and 
the  south  legitimately  await  their  active  solidarity  to 
emerge  from  the  crisis.  My  people  are  convinced  that 
their  appeal  for  international  solidarity  will  be  heard 
and  followed  up  with  appropriate  measures.  Malians 
know that nations have the means. They look forward to 
decisive and diligent action. At stake is the stability and 
security of our subregion, of Africa and of the world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Mali  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr.  Cheick  Modibo  Diarra,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Mali, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Bazoum, Minister 
of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation,  African 
Integration  and  Nigeriens  Abroad  of  the  Republic  of 
the Niger.
Mr.  Bazoum  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
first  like  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session on his election. I 
also wish to congratulate his country for that success, 
which  allows  him  to  manage  the  Organization  during 
his  term  of  office.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
the  outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, whose term of office was a very 
busy  one.  Lastly,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the tireless work that he 
has  undertaken  through  the  programme  he  submitted 
for the next five years and through which he particularly 
focuses  on  sustainable  development,  peace,  security 
and the participation of women and young people.
Sad  reality  shows  us  that  some  people,  using  the 
freedom  of  expression  that  is  guaranteed  in  their  own 
countries, have believed that that freedom includes the 
right  to  publish  cartoons  and  to  produce  a  video  that 
insults Islam. Those acts are comparable to anti-Semitic 
acts  or  racist  acts  in  general  by  those  who  reject  any 
differences and insist on making that a rule of conduct. 
We firmly condemn those actions, which are hurtful and 
offensive  for  Muslims.  But  however  disgraceful  they 
may be, they cannot justify the outbreak of violence we 
have seen, especially those against diplomatic missions. 
In particular, we condemn the murderous attack against 
the United States diplomatic mission in Benghazi, and 
we  repeat  here  the  sincere  condolences  of  the  people 
and  Government  of  the  Niger  to  the  American  people 
and  Government.  We  reassert  that  Islam,  a  religion  of 
balance and moderation, cannot provide a basis for such 
hateful responses. Those who, in the name of Islam, are 
behaving like savage hordes discredit this great religion 
and,  in  doing  so,  are  behaving  exactly  like  those  they 
claim to denounce.
The sad facts that I have just referred to demonstrate 
the  wisdom  of  the  theme  the  President  chose  to  place 
at  the  centre  of  his  mandate,  that  is,  “Bringing  about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means”. The peaceful settlement 
of disputes, we may recall, was the theme of the general 
debate  at  the  sixty-sixth  session.  Between  the  two 
sessions,  the  position  of  my  country  on  the  issue  has 
not changed. 
At the sixty-sixth session, my country’s President, 
Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, said from this rostrum: “We 
might have thought that the end of the Cold War would 
open the way to an age of full and lasting peace around 
the  world”  (A/66/PV.20,  p.  17).  Unfortunately,  because 
there  was  no  ability,  or  perhaps  not  even  the  will,  to 
attack the evil at its roots, the hope for a world without 
conf lict recedes like the horizon as one approaches it. 
The root of the evil is bad governance, politically and 
economically.  The  promises  of  liberty,  equality  and 
justice,  of  the  rule  of  law  and  solidarity  —  promises 
that  were  made  to  people  both  globally  and  at  the 
national level — have still not been upheld.  The lack of 
12-52219
25
A/67/PV.11
any  regulation  of  the  global  economy,  the  domination 
of  banks,  unfair  trade  and  the  growth  of  inequalities 
between  and  within  nations  are  factors  of  disorder, 
crises and conf licts that disrupt world peace. The rise 
of  terrorism  and  the  increasingly  strong  probability 
of  criminal  forces  controlling  great  areas  will  worsen 
tensions throughout the world.
Anticipating  international  conf licts  and  disputes 
is  the  best  way  to  prevent  them.  As  international 
economic competition can lead to war, the anticipation 
of  crises  should  create  specific  conditions  for  global 
economic  growth  that  benefits  all.  To  do  that,  there 
should be mechanisms to regulate the global economy 
with  the  goal,  among  others,  of  ending  the  hegemony 
of  financial  capital  and  unfair  trade.  The  end  of  the 
hegemony of financial capital should allow us to direct 
available  financial  resources  towards  investments  in 
the real economy rather than towards speculation.
The  end  of  unfair  trade  will  allow  countries  that 
produce  raw  materials,  such  as  the  Niger,  to  draw 
greater  benefit  from  them,  particularly  through  the 
change that generates added value. If a country such as 
mine were able to get a fair price for its raw materials 
and to establish real control over their exploitation, then 
the Millennium Development Goals could be achieved 
by 2015. That is one of the ambitions of the programme 
for the renaissance of the Niger that President Issoufou 
presented. 
On  the  basis  of  that  programme,  the  Government 
has just drawn up an economic and social development 
plan for 2012 to 2015. For financing the programme, the 
Niger is organizing a donors’ meeting to be held in Paris 
on 13 and 14 November. The 3N initiative — Nigeriens 
Nourishing  Nigeriens  —  is  an  integral  and  important 
part of the plan. I take the opportunity here to invite all 
partners  of  the  Niger,  both  bilateral  and  multilateral, 
both public and private, to take an active part.
Allow  me  also  to  take  the  opportunity  to  thank 
all  those  who  have  responded  positively  to  the  appeal 
that  our  President  launched  here  on  23  September 
2011  during  his  address  to  the  Asembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth  session,  calling  for  assistance  to  the  people  of 
the  Niger  following  that  year’s  mediocre  harvest.  The 
mobilization of the people and the Government, as well 
as  all  our  partners,  enabled  us  to  prevent  the  drought 
from leading to famine, while creating the conditions to 
prepare for the 2012-2013 harvest. The results are very 
promising despite the recent f looding in the country.
It  is  said  that  history  has  more  imagination  than 
do  men,  because  events  often  escape  the  control  of 
those  who  cause  them.  It  is  my  hope  that  this  saying 
will  not  apply  to  the  Arab  Spring,  which  has  created 
turmoil from which we hope good will come. Allow me 
to recall the fact that at the Group of Eight Summit in 
Deauville on 26 May 2011, President Issoufou drew the 
attention of the Heads of State and Government present 
on the need for them not to lose sight of the foreseeable 
consequences of a Libyan conf lict in the Sahel-Saharan 
region.
His  fears  were  unfortunately  confirmed  with 
the  outbreak  of  the  rebellion  in  Mali  on  17  January, 
triggered  by  elements  from  Libya  and  followed  by 
the  coup  d’état  of  22  March,  which  dealt  democracy 
a  severe  blow  while  enabling  the  occupation  of  two 
thirds  of  Malian  territory,  not  just  by  external  forces, 
some  of  them  from  Libya,  but  also  by  terrorists  and 
criminal  organizations  specializing  in  various  types 
of  trafficking,  particularly  drugs.  In  our  view,  the 
current  situation  in  Mali  constitutes  a  serious  threat 
to  the  security  and  stability  of  the  member  countries 
of  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  as  well  as  the  countries  in  the  thick  of 
things.
The ambition of the jihadists who have subjugated 
northern Mali, destroying the patrimonial historic sites 
of  Timbuktu,  cutting  off  hands  and  forcing  women 
to  wear  the  burka,  is  to  conquer  the  whole  of  West 
Africa and the Maghreb. Once they have achieved that 
goal,  will  they  stop  there?  Of  course  not.  They  will 
immediately  go  on  to  attack  Europe  and  the  whole  of 
the rest of the world. This is therefore a global threat, 
and the response should be global, too.
It must be immediate and unhesitating, because we 
know well that postponing a fight always puts one at a 
disadvantage.  Therefore  the  international  community, 
and  the  Security  Council  in  particular,  has  a  duty  to 
take responsibility for the crisis in Mali without delay 
in  order  to  restore  a  united,  democratic  and  secular 
Mali. An operational concept for military intervention 
should be drawn up and adopted within the framework 
of a coalition that should include troops from ECOWAS 
member  States  as  well  as  from  the  countries  involved 
and  from  other  African  countries  wishing  to  take 
part.  Such  an  operation  should  receive  the  firm  and 
determined  support  of  the  friends  of  Mali  and  Africa 
among the great Powers. It should be carried out through 
a Security Council resolution in a framework based on 
26 
12-52219
A/67/PV.11
the current efforts of ECOWAS but better coordinated 
with  and  controlled  by  the  African  Union  through  its 
Peace and Security Council.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Titus  Corlăţean,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Romania.
Mr.  Corlăţean  (Romania)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  gives  us  a 
complete picture of today’s world with all its challenges 
and  opportunities.  We  can  also  glimpse  various  paths 
opening  up  before  us  to  help  us  meet  the  needs  of 
humankind and of nations. 
I  would  like  to  focus  on  the  three  main  areas  of 
activity  of  the  United  Nations  —  peace  and  security; 
development; and human rights, democracy and the rule 
of law. In our approach we believe that the realities of the 
last decade have confirmed the profound and complex 
interdependence that exists between these areas. There 
is  no  peace  and  security  without  development  and 
respect for human rights and democracy. Development 
is a catalyst for democracy and respect for human rights, 
and,  at  the  same  time,  an  essential  factor  for  peace 
and  security.  In  their  turn,  respect  for  human  rights, 
democracy and the rule of law strengthen development 
and create the conditions for lasting peace and security.
(spoke in English)
New  situations  of  internal  instability,  civil  strife 
and insecurity, with spillover effects, have arisen in the 
Middle East and other regions. It is regrettable that the 
new session of the Assembly is beginning in the shadow 
of  the  sorrow  over  the  recent  events  in  Benghazi. 
Attacks on diplomatic representatives are unacceptable 
for any reason. Diplomats are bridges between cultures, 
links  among  nations.  Their  inviolability  is  part  of 
ancient  custom.  I  strongly  condemn  the  attacks  and 
offer  my  sincere  condolences  to  the  families  of  the 
victims.  The  perpetrators  must  be  brought  to  justice 
through a fair and equitable trial. At the same time, the 
ideals  of  democracy  must  be  preserved.  Stability  and 
the  rule  of  law  should  be  the  future  pillars  of  society 
in  Libya  and  elsewhere.  We  are  firmly  committed  to 
supporting  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
to  consolidate  stability  and  security,  tolerance  and 
religious understanding.
Throughout 2012 we have been confronted with the 
dire  effects  of  the  crisis  in  Syria,  where  human  rights 
violations  are  now  rampant.  The  Syrian  Government 
must  comply  with  its  international  commitments  and 
obligations  relating  to  human  rights.  Justice  must  be 
done in all cases of violations of human rights and all 
those  who  are  guilty  must  be  permitted  a  fair  trial, 
even if it was not something they allowed their victims. 
Romania  has  stated  throughout  that  it  is  imperative 
that  the  international  community  curb  the  escalating 
violence  in  Syria;  and  of  course  we  favour  a  political 
solution.
In that regard, I would like to voice our firm support 
for  the  mission  of  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi  in  his  new 
capacity as Special Representative of the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States for Syria. We were also 
a  wholehearted  supporter  of  the  full  implementation 
of  the  Joint  Special  Envoy’s  six-point  plan  for  Syria 
and,  similarly,  gave  full  and  direct  support  to  the 
activitiees  of  the  United  Nations  Supervision  Mission 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic.  In  that  context,  I  would 
like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  Romanian  monitors 
were  part  of  its  structure.  I  strongly  believe  that  the 
only  future  for  Syria  must  be  an  inclusive  one  for  all 
Syrians,  irrespective  of  religion  or  ethnic  group.  Any 
other option would be nothing less than a nightmare.
The time has come for a more structured response 
on the part of the United Nations, based on a consensus 
approach  by  the  Security  Council.  Obviously,  we 
cannot  and  should  not  allow  violence  to  prevail  when 
people  in  Syria  rely  on  our  capacity  to  offer  stability 
and  predictability  and  when  regional  stability  and 
security are at stake.
Recent  developments  in  the  area  of  peace  and 
security,  at  both  the  global  and  regional  levels,  do 
not  offer  many  reasons  for  optimism.  The  year  2012 
has  seen  limited  progress  with  the  Middle  East  peace 
process. The expectations raised by the statement of the 
Quartet for the Middle East on 23 September 2011 will 
remain unfulfilled as long as direct Israeli-Palestinian 
negotiations are not resumed.
Romania  is  a  strong  supporter  of  all  efforts  to 
achieve  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East. 
We  support  all  the  initiatives  of  the  Quartet  and  the 
full  implementation  of  the  road  map’s  vision  of  two 
States,  Israeli  and  Palestinian,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security.  We  are  also  concerned  about  the 
lack  of  progress  in  finding  negotiated  solutions  to 
protracted  conf licts  in  the  Black  Sea  region,  such  as 
those  in  Transnistria  and  Nagorno  Karabakh  and  that 
in Georgia involving Abkhazia and South Ossetia. We 
12-52219
27
A/67/PV.11
must  all  keep  our  attention  focused  on  these  unsettled 
situations.  Meanwhile,  we  express  our  satisfaction 
with the efforts carried out over the past 12 months by 
the  special  representatives  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
European Union and the Organization for Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe.
Over  the  past  year,  the  Security  Council  reacted 
promptly  to  new  crises  by  adopting  resolutions  aimed 
at preventing the escalation of conf lict or calling for the 
re-establishment of constitutional order or for efforts by 
all  the  parties  involved  to  find  negotiated  solutions  to 
new problems. The resolutions adopted have not always 
met expectations. In spite of the fact that the mandates 
of several United Nations peacekeeping missions were 
extended, little progress was made.
Under the auspices of the United Nations, through 
a joint innovative and intellectual effort, the conceptual 
approach has been enlarged to include human security, 
the  responsibility  to  protect,  and  mediation.  There 
is  still  a  long  way  to  go  before  those  concepts  are 
operational.  When  the  time  comes,  Romania  stands 
ready to implement them.
civil 
organizations, 
New  categories  of  participants  must  be  included 
in  our  common  endeavour.  Beside  Governments, 
non-governmental 
society, 
parliaments  and  local  communities  are  already  acting 
to  identify  optimal  solutions.  Based  on  my  previous 
experience  as  Chairman  of 
the  Foreign  Affairs 
Committee  of  the  Senate,  I  consider  that  the  role  of 
parliaments  as  elected  bodies  could  be  increased  in 
prevention  activities  or  in  efforts  to  settle  existing 
conf licts.  In  that  respect,  cooperation  and  interaction 
between  the  United  Nations,  national  parliaments  and 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union in peacebuilding efforts 
is highly relevant.
Over  the  past  15  years,  my  country  has  taken  a 
keen  interest  in,  and  offered  important  contributions 
to, civilian and military missions under United Nations 
mandates.  Today  Romania  is  honoured  and  proud  to 
have contributed in a consistent way to various United 
Nations operations. I pay my deepest respect to the men 
and  women  of  Romania  who  have  lost  or  risked  their 
lives  in  conf lict  areas,  as  well  as  to  all  the  military, 
police,  gendarmes  and  civilian  personnel  serving  all 
over  the  world  to  bring  peace  and  security  under  the 
f lag of the United Nations.
As  I  have  already  mentioned,  development  is 
equally a major area of interest, action and cooperation 
within  the  United  Nations.  One  area  where  we  could 
find solutions within the United Nations framework is 
improving the functioning of the banking and financial 
systems  and  institutions.  National  and  international 
banking  and  financial  institutions  should  become 
ever greater partners for Governments — a part of the 
solution  to  the  economic  crises  confronting  countries 
and regions.
Young  people  are  the  future  of  our  nations  and  of 
our world. The United Nations has, in the past, takem 
up the problems facing younger generations, including 
through programmes of action adopted by the General 
Assembly.  The  time  has  come  to  revisit  this  area  of 
interest to assess the achievements as well as the steps 
to  be  taken  in  order  to  meet  the  current  expectations 
and needs of youth.
We should reconsider from a broader perspective the 
vital role of the education sector in providing support, 
especially  but  not  exclusively,  to  young  people.  Such 
support  should  include  universal  access  for  younger 
generations to education; professional training allowing 
rapid  and  efficient  integration  into  the  labour  market; 
and participation in, and contribution to, the shaping of 
future societies in all the countries, especially in those 
in transition.
For many years now, water has been a major concern 
as climate change affects its availability in all regions. 
Water, our planet’s most precious resource, must not be 
allowed  to  become  our  most  disputed  resource  and  a 
source of bitter conf lict.
Our attention should be focused on the follow-up to 
and  implementation  of  the  decisions  recently  adopted 
by  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development.  Relevant  resolutions  on  enhancement 
of 
sustainable 
development,  agreement  on  sustainable  development 
goals, and determination of certain  financial aspects of 
the achievement of those goals are expected by all of us.
institutional 
the 
framework 
for 
(spoke in French)
I should like to share some thoughts relating to the 
area  of  human  rights,  which  is  of  growing  relevance 
for  our  cooperation  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations.  International  cooperation  and  discussions 
promoting  human  rights  received  renewed  momentum 
with  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Council  since  it  began 
its work, Romania has contributed to the development 
28 
12-52219
and adoption of its working methods, based on a more 
analytical approach as well as on in-depth cooperation 
and  interactive  dialogue  with  Member  States.  The 
main  objective  of  the  Romanian  presidency  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  2007  was  to  strengthen 
and  more  actively  promote  human  rights  at  the  global 
level.  We  believe  that  the  universal  periodic  review 
is  an  appropriate  instrument  for  implementing  the 
international  protection  of  human  rights  in  all  its 
aspects.  It  can  also  respond  to  new  human  rights 
challenges, such as those posed by the Internet.
This  spring  in  Geneva,  Romania,  together  with 
Morocco, Norway, Peru, Qatar and Tunisia, promoted a 
draft resolution entitled “Human rights, democracy and 
the rule of law”, which was sponsored by 124 countries 
from  all  regional  groups.  The  broad  support  for  the 
resolution,  and  the  large  number  of  Member  States 
that  supported  its  adoption  by  the  Council,  confirms 
the  interest  of  Member  States  in  this  subject.  We  saw 
a broad recognition of the close interlinkage of human 
rights, democracy and the rule of law. We would like to 
see  in  the  near  future  the  same  approach  taken  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  form  of  a  similar  resolution. 
In that respect, Romania is ready to set to work and to 
act together with other interested Member States.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm my country’s 
commitment  to  the  principles  and  values  promoted 
and  constantly  enhanced  by  the  United  Nations.  We 
recognize that there is no alternative to the framework 
of  cooperation  offered  by  the  United  Nations  system, 
which  aims  to  resolve  the  complex  and  interrelated 
problems  of  our  day.  Reforming  and  adapting  the 
system to the new realities of the world depends entirely 
upon us as Member States. It depends on our political 
will as political leaders. By doing so, we will meet the 
expectations of our peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Daniel Kablan Duncan, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of  Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr.  Duncan  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in  French): 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane  Ouattara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  who  was  not  able  to 
be  here  today,  wishes  me  to  express,  on  behalf  of  the 
people  and  Government  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  warmest 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić 
on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I 
would  like  to  assure Mr.Jeremić  of  the  full  support  of 
A/67/PV.11
the  Ivorian  delegation  for  the  success  of  his  mandate. 
I  would  also  like  to  convey  to  his  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  my 
delegation’s satisfaction with the work undertaken and 
the encouraging results achieved under his presidency. 
His commitment to our common cause has allowed the 
Organization  to  fully  play  the  role  conferred  upon  it 
by  the  United  Nations  Charter.  I  wish  to  reiterate  to 
His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  my 
sincere thanks for his determined commitment and for 
his  persistent  quest  for  peace  throughout  the  world. 
I  reiterate  to  him  once  again  the  infinite  gratitude  of 
my  President  and  the  entire  nation  for  his  unfailing 
commitment  to  Côte  d’Ivoire.  Through  the  Secretary-
General,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  all  the  civil 
and  military  personnel  of  the  United  Nations  for  their 
tireless efforts on behalf of peace and security.
The theme chosen for this session, “Bringing about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  by  peaceful  means”,  follows  on  from 
the  theme  of  the  previous  session.  In  particular,  it 
ref lects  the  essence  of  the  ideals  of  the  San  Francisco 
Conference, which led to the birth of the Organization. 
The  purposes  ascribed  to  the  United  Nations  in  its 
Charter  can  be  summarized  by  the  triptych  of  peace, 
liberty  and  development.  To  achieve  those  Charter 
purposes,  the  founding  fathers  of  the  Organization 
established a system of collective security on the basis 
of  two  major  principles:  the  prohibition  of  recourse 
to  the  use  of  force  in  international  relations  and  the 
obligation to settle disputes peacefully.
Now more than ever, we must enhance our collective 
security system and ensure that it has all the necessary 
resources to be effective. For his part, the President of 
Côte d’Ivoire is committed to strictly following a policy 
of  peace  and  dialogue.  These  are  principles  that  were 
enshrined  as  cardinal  virtues,  through  trial  by  fire, 
by  the  late  President,  Mr.  Félix  Houphouët-Boigny, 
who  won  a  place  in  the  history  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  and 
indeed of the African continent, through his pragmatic 
approach to the settlement of conf lict through dialogue. 
For that reason, President Allassane Ouattara spares 
no efforts in seeking lasting solutions, both nationally in 
the post-electoral crisis in Côte d’Ivoire, and regionally, 
especially  with  regard  to  the  situations  in  Mali  and 
Guinea-Bissau.  Indeed,  the  security  of  West  Africa  is 
seriously  challenged  by  military  and  political  crises 
orchestrated by military, rebel or terrorist movements, 
particularly in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. 
12-52219
29
A/67/PV.11
The Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS),  which  has  always  promoted  the  path  of 
negotiation highlighted by the theme of this session, is 
working tirelessly to ensure a positive outcome to those 
crises  and  to  ensure  the  restoration  of  constitutional 
order  and  democracy  in  Mali  and  Guinea-Bissau. 
While  the  situation  has  considerably  improved  in 
Guinea-Bissau, the one in Mali continues to be of major 
concern. Rebel movements linked to terrorist networks 
continue to occupy the main towns in the north of that 
country,  which  they  are  now  pillaging  and  destroying 
with total impunity. 
Determined to put an end to this abusive occupation 
of  the  north  of  Mali,  ECOWAS  plans  to  deploy  a 
military force at the request of the Government of Mali 
to help the Malian army efficiently fulfil its sovereign 
mission  of  defending  the  territorial  integrity  of  the 
country.  The  establishment  and  deployment  of  such  a 
force  requires  major  support  from  the  African  Union, 
the  United  Nations  and  all  development  partners. 
Indeed, the presence of groups with links to terrorists 
in northern Mali is a genuine threat, which could lead, 
if  nothing  is  done,  to  the  implosion  of  the  entire West 
African region and the Sahel. 
When  we  look  at  the  non-State  players  involved 
in  the  current  conf licts  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  Mali, 
particularly  the  terrorist  networks  and  armed  groups 
linked  to  transnational  crime  and  piracy  in  the  Gulf 
of  Guinea,  we  note  how  incomplete  the  current 
instruments  for  resolving  these  crises  are,  based  as 
they  are  on  negotiation  and  mediation.  Today,  there  is 
no questioning the fact that the resurgence of terrorism 
in  the  Sahel  region  in  general  and  in  northern  Mali 
in  particular  has  created  a  sanctuary,  a  lawless  zone. 
Western  Africa  faces  other  dangerous  threats  to  the 
security  of  not  only  the  region  itself  but  also  other 
regions, perhaps even Europe.
Eradicating these problems requires concerted and 
diligent  action  by  ECOWAS,  the  African  Union  and 
the United Nations. I am pleased to note the creation of 
the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre, which is 
financed  and  hosted  by  Saudi  Arabia.  I  also  welcome 
the proposal made by the Secretary-General to appoint 
a  United  Nations  counter-terrorism  coordinator,  and  I 
would like to assure him of Côte d’Ivoire’s full support.
Transnational  crime,  drug 
trafficking,  human 
trafficking,  piracy  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  and  the 
destruction of the environment are threats to the world 
in general and to Africa in particular. The International 
Maritime Organization, in its 2010 annual report, quite 
rightly said that the West African coast is one of the six 
main centres of piracy in the world. Responsibility for 
the  measures  to  be  taken  to  deal  with  these  scourges 
lies first and foremost with the States of the subregion 
and the principal subregional organizations. 
In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the  fact  that  the  forty-
first  ECOWAS  Summit,  held  in  Yamoussoukro  on 
28  and  29  June,  decided  to  convene  a  joint  summit  of 
West  African  and  Central  African  States  to  take  joint 
measures on piracy and organized transnational crime 
in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolution 2039 (2012). 
However,  despite  the  goodwill  of  the  countries  of 
the subregion, they cannot, on their own, deal with the 
threats facing maritime security. My country welcomes 
the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General  to  facilitate  the 
organization of a summit of heads of State of the region 
to enable them to draw up a regional strategy to combat 
maritime piracy, together with the African Union. 
Côte  d’Ivoire, 
that 
sincerely  hopes 
like  many  other  African  and 
non-African  States, 
the 
Organization  will  be  able  to  adopt  in  the  near  future 
a  legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty,  following  the 
efforts  made  by  all  parties  to  reach  a  consensus.  The 
international  community  must  not  lose  the  historic 
opportunity  it  has  to  better  regulate,  if  not  outright 
prohibit,  a  trade  that  causes  500,000  deaths  each  year 
and  that  is  the  main  cause  of  violations  of  human 
rights  and  the  destabilization  of  our  States,  as  well  as 
worsening  conditions  for  our  people,  and,  above  all, 
poses  a  constant  threat  to  regional  and  international 
peace  and  security.  With  respect  to  the  links  between 
economic development and the environment, the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
held  in  June  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  shows  what  we  can 
accomplish  when  we  work  together  to  build  a  better 
world  for  current  generations  and  those  to  come.  The 
combined  crises  in  food,  energy  and  the  environment 
threaten the peace and security of all humankind.  Yet 
we  have  the  means  to  achieve  a  world  free  of  famine 
and hunger.  It is within our capabilities.
Allow  me  to  stress  that,  with  respect  to  the 
international system, Côte d’Ivoire urges all delegations, 
as  we  take  up  the  eighth  round  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  concerning  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, to show f lexibility and a spirit of compromise. 
30 
12-52219
It is important to act quickly, because the composition 
of the Council is the keystone of our collective security 
system,  and  in  that  light  its  composition  should  be 
designed to maximize efficiency.   
In  order  for  the  Security  Council  to  be  truly 
effective  in  its  decisions,  since  it  devotes  two-thirds 
of  its  time  to  the  African  continent,  we  consider  it 
more critical than ever for Africa to hold a permanent 
seat  with  the  right  of  veto,  in  accordance  with  the 
recommendations  defined  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
Taking  duly  into  account  the  wishes  of  African  heads 
of  State  and  Government,  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  could  represent  a  historical  opportunity  that 
the  international  community  should  seize  in  order  to 
repair an anomaly in international relations. With that 
in  mind,  I  hope  that  the  forthcoming  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform will be crowned with success, 
yielding a Council that truly represents the realities of 
our shared history and our contemporary world.
I would like now to make some remarks about the 
situation  in  my  country.  Thanks  to  the  most  valuable 
support of the international community, especially the 
United  Nations,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  emerged  from  the 
military and political crisis that rocked the foundations 
of  its  economic  and  social  development  for  nearly 
a  decade.    Resolutely  committed  to  the  path  of  post-
conf lict  reconstruction,  and  with  the  aim  of  national 
cohesion,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  made  considerable 
progress  in  the  political,  economic,    social,  security 
and  humanitarian  spheres  since  21  May  2011,  the 
official  date  on  which  President  Ouattara  assumed 
the  presidency  of  the  Republic.  Those  results  were 
made  possible  by  the  determination  of  the  Ivorian 
Government  to  implement  the  three  central  priorities 
defined by the President when he took office. 
First,  on  security  and  stability,  significant  joint 
efforts  by  the  Government  and  the  United  Nations 
Operation in Côte d’Ivoire lead to improvements in the 
situation,  even  in  the  west  of  the  country,  which  has 
been the most problematic area.  
Secondly, national reconciliation has been effected 
through  the  National  Commission  for  Dialogue,  Truth 
and  Reconciliation,  which  has  been  serving  as  the 
standing body for maintaining political dialogue. 
Reconstruction  and  economic  renewal  are  already 
off  to  a  good  start,  with  an  estimated  growth  of  more 
than 8 per cent in the gross national product for 2012. 
The  economic  situation  has  greatly  improved,  thanks 
to the support of our development partners, especially 
A/67/PV.11
after  we  met  the  goals  of  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries Initiative in June.
The  resulting  drop  in  our  foreign  debt  and  the 
adoption of our national development plan for the period 
2012-2015 allow Côte d’Ivoire to hope that we can reach 
the  double-digit  economic  growth  rate  necessary  for 
our  country  to  become  an  emerging  country  by  2020, 
as envisioned by President Ouattara. 
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  say  that  Côte 
d’Ivoire notes that the President of the General Assembly 
at the previous session opened an informal interactive 
dialogue, at the level of the United Nations, on the issue 
of the responsibility to protect.  In the aftermath of that 
useful  forum  and  in  the  light  of  the  lessons  learned, 
Côte d’Ivoire, following the example of the Secretary-
General, believes that the principle of the responsibility 
to  protect  has  achieved  sufficient  maturity  and  that 
what remains to be done now is to implement it.  
On  that  basis,  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  and  the  Global  Centre  for  the 
Responsibility to Protect jointly held a regional forum 
in Abuja devoted to that concept. A similar meeting is 
scheduled  to  take  place  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  at  the  end  of 
this year.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the gratitude 
of President Ouattara, his Government and the Ivorian 
people to the United Nations and the entire international 
community for their commitment to peace and stability 
in Côte d’Ivoire. That constitutes to be the precondition 
for development. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Moukoko  Mbonjo, 
Minister  for  External  Relations  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon.
Mr.  Moukoko  Mbonjo  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in 
French): I speak on behalf of Mr. Paul Biya, President 
of the Republic of Cameroon, who has had to remain in 
Cameroon  owing  to  painful  circumstances.  He  asked 
me to read the following statement.
“Allow me, first of all, to warmly congratulate 
the  President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
The  experience  he  brings  as  former  head  of  the 
diplomatic corps of his country leads me to believe 
that he, like his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  will  lead  the  discussions  with  the 
requisite  agility  and  talent.  I  would  also  like  to 
12-52219
31
A/67/PV.11
express to Mr. Al-Nasser my country’s appreciation 
for his action as President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-sixth session. 
“Finally,  I  would  like  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his devotion to serving the ideals 
of the Organization.
“This  has  been  an  active  year  for 
the 
Organization.  We  have  held  major  meetings  to 
discuss  the  important  questions  of  the  day  and 
examined  the  most  appropriate  course  of  action  to 
address them. Allow me to return to two of them.
“First  of  all,  there  is  Rio+20,  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which  was  held  in  June  2012  to  commemorate  the 
twentieth anniversary of the historic Earth Summit. 
The meeting enabled us to define the future we want 
to leave our children.
“I  am  pleased  that  the  vision  adopted  at  the 
end  of  the  meeting  recognizes  the  need  to  further 
incorporate at all levels of activities the economic, 
social  and  environmental  aspects  of  sustainable 
development.  If  we  want  to  leave  a  liveable  world 
to future generations, the green economy seems the 
most  effective  way  of  ensuring  that  development 
meets  the  needs  of  populations  while  at  the  same 
time preserving the environment. 
“For  our  part,  Cameroon  has  already  begun 
actions in that respect. We intend to work further to 
preserve our natural capital and to seek low-carbon 
solutions,  as  well  as  to  promote  production  and 
consumption patterns that are sustainable.
“In  our  view,  progress  towards  the  green 
economy  must  be  gradual  and  enjoy  the  support 
of  the  international  community.  In  that  respect, 
the  document  adopted  at  the  end  of  the  Rio 
Conference committed the international community 
to  upholding  the  many  obligations  that  had  been 
undertaken  with  respect  to  Africa  in  terms  of 
sustainable development, while ensuring, inter alia, 
appropriate  technology  transfer.  The  international 
financial 
the  United  Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) 
are called upon to strengthen their activities to that 
end. That is a significant step forward.
institutions  and 
“The second important meeting that we should 
note  is  the  thirteenth  quadrennial  session  held  by 
UNCTAD in Doha, Qatar. Less commented upon by 
the media than the Rio meeting, that session aimed 
to curb the excesses of globalization and to refocus 
it on development. Globalization, because of what it 
has brought to the development of trade, economic 
and technological progress and the rapprochement of 
cultures, can be considered a positive phenomenon. 
The  fact  remains,  however,  that  because  of  poor 
management  and  poor  regulation,  it  was  unable  to 
prevent economic crises and relegated problems of 
underdevelopment  to  the  backburner.  UNCTAD, 
after the Doha meeting, was reinforced in its role in 
terms of trade and development, which is something 
to be welcomed.
“Since 2008, we have seen a slowdown in global 
economic activity. Industrialized countries, be they 
European  Union  or  the  United  States  or  Japan, 
have, to varying degrees, been experiencing serious 
difficulties  —  slower  growth  or  even  recession, 
increased  debt  and  public  deficits,  imbalances 
in  foreign  trade,  and  so  on.  Emerging  countries 
themselves,  which  had  seen  high  growth  rates, 
have been experiencing a slowdown as well. As to 
developing countries, even if they continue to make 
moderate progress, they fear the effects of a crash of 
the global economy and a possible contagion.
“A  few  moments  ago  I  said  that  globalization, 
even if it does have some positive aspects, has not 
achieved  its  main  objective,  that  is,  ensuring  the 
harmonious  functioning  of  the  global  economy 
and  global  finance  while  taking  into  account  the 
interests  of  all  concerned  parties.  That  relative 
failure  has  revealed  an  urgent  need  for  regulation. 
Right now it is hard to see how and when that need 
can be met.
“Major  forums,  such  as  the  Group  of  20,  of 
which industrialized countries make up the majority, 
and  the  World  Trade  Organization  have,  for  their 
part,  discussed  several  times  the  question  of  the 
global  economy  and  outlined  solutions  that  could 
re-establish an overall balance. But it has to be said  
that, given the scale of the task, the lack of available 
resources  and  the  difficulties  that  major  countries 
themselves are having to face, the discussions have 
not  always  been  followed  by  action.  From  that 
standpoint,  the  international  community  seems  to 
be  going  through  a  period  of  doubt  and  concern. 
Every one of us is aware that urgent and large-scale 
action  is  required,  but,  preoccupied  with  our  own 
32 
12-52219
problems, we seem to be in a state of paralysis and 
unable to take the decisions that need to be taken. 
“The  obvious  risk  is  one  of  a  return  to 
protectionism  —  a  temptation  that  is  already 
evident.  If  we  believe  the  signs,  that  could  only 
bring temporary respite and in time could exacerbate 
the  recession.  African  countries,  and  Cameroon 
in  particular,  which  have  undergone  a  long  crisis 
marked  by  declines  in  gross  domestic  product, 
the  harsh  discipline  of  structural  adjustment  plans 
and  the  worsening  of  social  hardship,  are  in  a 
good  position  to  evaluate  the  consequences  of 
a  deterioration  of  the  economy.  That  is  why  they 
place  their  hopes  in  a  broad  consultation  with  a 
view to the comprehensive regulation of economic 
and financial flows that would take into account the 
situation of the different categories of countries and 
provide opportunities for international solidarity to 
play a role.
“For  its  part,  Cameroon  has  drawn  lessons 
from the current situation. Back on its feet, thanks 
to  the  sacrifices  of  its  population  and  relieved  of 
the  weight  of  their  debt  by  external  partners,  the 
economy  of  Cameroon  is  now  focused  on  taking 
advantage  of  its  natural  resources.  Well  endowed 
by  nature,  my  country  intends  to  develop  modern 
agriculture  in  order  to  consolidate  its  food  self-
sufficiency  and  encourage  exports.  Also,  aware 
that its industrialization requires the availability of 
sufficient energy, we have set in motion a programme 
to  exploit  our  vast  hydroelectric  potential.  Finally, 
several mining projects, together with the building 
of  adequate  road  transport  and  port  infrastructure, 
are  under  way.  We  hope  to  make  progress  on  the 
road  to  development  and  the  improvement  of  the 
living conditions of our population.
“I  would  now  like  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  the  President’s  choice  of  theme  for  the  general 
debate,  namely,  ‘Bringing  about  adjustment  or 
settlement of international disputes or situations by 
peaceful means’. That subject follows on from last 
year’s theme and enables us to revisit the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  to  remind  ourselves  of  the 
values  that  it  promotes  and  that  should  guide  our 
actions.
“The  theme  recalls  recalls  the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Organization,  which  are,  inter 
alia,  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
A/67/PV.11
security through the adoption of effective collective 
measures  and  the  settlement  by  peaceful  means 
of  disputes  which  could  lead  to  a  breakdown  of 
peace,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  justice 
and international law. That reminder is not without 
value at the present moment, when tensions persist 
in the Sahel, especially in Mali, when the Sudan and 
South  Sudan  struggle  to  normalize  relations,  and 
when  Syria  is  ravaged  by  internal  conflict.  Those 
tensions  highlight  the  risk  of  force  being  used  to 
resolve differences.
“The  use  of  force  can  be  justified  in  some 
cases, such as to respond to international terrorism, 
violations  of  human  rights  and  democracy,  threats 
to  the  security  of  persons  or  violations  of  the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States. 
However,  it  is  clear  that,  before  resorting  to  that 
extreme,  peaceful  means  must  first  be  used  to 
resolve disputes, so as to avoid setting off a vicious 
circle of violence and retaliation. Far be it from me 
to indulge in utopianism. There are situations when 
military  intervention  is  perhaps  inevitable.  But  it 
is  our  responsibility  to  reduce  to  the  minimum  the 
likelihood of military action by taking a maximum 
of  precautions.  In  any  case,  clearly  the  preferred 
way to settle disputes is still through prevention and 
negotiation. 
“For  the  greater  part  of  international  public 
opinion,  the  United  Nations  embodies  the  noblest 
human values and the hope for a future in keeping 
with the ideals of peace, security and development, 
as  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Let 
us  strive  to  keep  that  hope  from  being  yet  again 
betrayed.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antoine  Gambi,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Central Africans Abroad of the 
Central African Republic.
Mr.  Gambi  (Central  African  Republic)  (spoke  in 
French): It is a genuine honour and pleasure for me to 
take  the  f loor  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall  to  report 
on the great interest that the Central African Republic 
takes  in  the  major  international  issues  of  concern  to 
everyone here.
However,  before  doing  so,  I  would  like,  on 
behalf  of  my  whole  delegation,  to  extend  my  warm 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session 
12-52219
33
A/67/PV.11
and  to  assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation  in  his  noble 
and demanding work. I would also like to commend the 
excellent work done under the presidency of Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  during  the  sixty-sixth  session.  I 
wholeheartedly express my deepest thanks to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  particular  attention  he 
focuses  on  our  post-conf lict  country,  where  the  quest 
to  achieve  and  build  peace  remains  a  major  challenge 
on  the  road  to  reconstruction  and  development.  I  also 
commend  his  tireless  efforts  to  strengthen  the  role  of 
the United Nations and to consolidate ever more firmly 
the moral authority of the Organization.
Before conveying our assessments and perspectives 
on  the  main  recurring  themes  of  the  general  debate, 
which  constitute  a  litany  of  global  concerns,  let  me 
first  say  that  my  country  welcomes  the  initiative  in 
convening  at  the  outset  of  the  current  session  the 
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National 
and  International  Levels.  That  is  an  issue  of  critical 
importance,  considering  that  the  rule  of  law  itself  is 
being  harshly  put  to  the  test  all  over  the  world.  All 
States and all international institutions should strive to 
promote  the  rule  of  law  at  both  the  national  and  the 
international levels. Strengthening the rule of law and 
democratic  institutions  is  of  the  utmost  importance, 
because  they  represent  the  guardians  of  sovereignty 
and peaceful coexistence. 
The  real  battle  at  the  national  and  international 
levels is to enforce respect for the rule of law wherever 
chaos prevails. Many challenges remain in maintaining 
the rule of law. Hotspots persist and old conf licts erupt 
anew in many parts of the world, causing tragedy and 
threatening to unravel the rule of law. 
In  Africa  the  rule  of  law  is  particularly  at  risk  of 
breaking  down,  threatened  by  tensions,  disputes  and 
conf licts in a number of high-tension areas, especially 
Mali,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the 
Sudan,  South  Sudan  and  Somalia.  The  same  applies 
to other crises all over the world, carrying untold risk 
to  governance  and  stability  within  countries,  not  to 
mention to international relations. 
The  Government  of  the  Central  African  Republic 
goes  to  great  lengths  to  support  efforts  to  promote 
the  rule  of  law,  justice  and  transparency  through  its 
management  of  the  national  institutions  charged  with 
enforcing  the  rule  of  law.  Without  peace  and  stability 
at the global and regional levels, national security and 
stability are out of the question, and therefore so is the 
rule of law.
All around the globe we hear cries for freedom and 
democracy. Since 1989 the world has been in a period 
of change that has sparked much political fire in Africa.
With the international transformations of the 1990s, 
many  African  States,  including  the  Central  African 
Republic,  have  begun  to  move  towards  democratizing 
their  political  systems.  Democracy,  good  governance 
and  human  rights  are  interdependent. We  can  say  that 
there  can  be  no  rule  of  law  unless  those  values  are 
respected,  both  by  Governments  and  the  governed. 
The  support  and  programmes  designed  to  respond  to 
citizen’s  expectations  must  take  those  shared  values 
into  account,  and  the  Government  of  the  Central 
African Republic strives to achieve that every day. The 
Central  African  Republic  has  returned  to  democratic 
practices,  and  there  is  no  question  that  through  the 
evolving democratic process efforts have been made to 
improve  the  management  of  public  affairs  politically, 
economically  and  socially.  But  we  must  admit  that 
much remains to be done, and it is something that the 
international community must commit to collectively.
My  country’s  commitment  to  human  rights  has 
been demonstrated, not only through its full accession 
to many if not almost all, of the relevant international 
and regional instruments, but also in practice, through 
its encouragement of those rights. Under the leadership 
of  General  François  Bozizé,  President  of  the  Republic 
and  Head  of  State,  we  adopted  a  new  Constitution  on 
27  December  2004.  The  Constitution  enshrines  the 
principles  of  good  governance,  maintains  the  rule 
of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights,  and  broadens 
the  scope  of  individual  and  collective  liberties.  The 
Constitution  also  provides  for  recognition  of  the 
principle that international conventions ratified by the 
Central African Republic take precedence over national 
legislation, thus encouraging the harmonization of our 
laws with our international commitments.
In expressing its political will within the framework 
of the defence of civic and political rights protected by 
the African Charter of Human and Peoples’ Rights, the 
Central  African  Republic  implements  the  provisions 
of  that  Charter,  which  have  been  incorporated  into  its 
laws. The Government is also making efforts to protect 
and  encourage  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  women  and 
children  and  minorities,  through  social  policies  that 
benefit them.
34 
12-52219
We are aware that the press is the fourth estate in 
every  democracy.  In  order  to  guarantee  the  exercise 
of  the  freedom  of  the  press  in  the  Central  African 
Republic,  the  Government  enacted,  on  22  February 
2005,  Ordinance  No.  05002,  concerning  freedom  of 
communication,  which  relaxes  the  laws  concerning 
press offences, notably by replacing prison terms with 
ordinary  fines  for  any  contravention  of  the  laws  in 
question.
In an effort to avoid post-electoral political crises, 
the  Government,  the  political  parties  —  both  the 
majority and the opposition parties — trade unions and 
civil society are currently reviewing the electoral code 
in order to correct dysfunctional areas that were noted 
during  the  election  campaigns  of  January  2011.  The 
work  being  done  will  enable  Central  African  political 
actors to undertake reforms and essential improvements 
for  the  next  electoral  cycle  in  a  spirit  of  dialogue  and 
consensus.
The  state  of  the  world  should  make  us  aware  of 
the  urgent  need  to  strengthen  multilateralism  in  order 
to  avoid  the  collective  disaster  we  face,  if  we  do  not 
speedily  come  up  with  appropriate  and  agreed-on 
solutions  to  our  global  problems.  The  fundamental 
goals  of  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  continue  to  be  held 
hostage to the policy of the double standard, along with 
the  discriminatory  practices  and  lack  of  respect  for 
commitments undertaken on the part of certain nuclear 
Powers.
the  biased 
The  fight  against  terrorism  and  violations  of 
human  rights  around  the  world,  which  is  approached 
selectively,  and 
implementation  of 
international  humanitarian  law  has  given  rise  to 
legitimate doubts as to whether those noble causes are 
being exploited for political ends. That calls for action 
by  the  Organization.  Issues  of  climate  change  and  the 
protection of the natural world also demand a changed 
approach  that  takes  into  account  the  aspirations  of  all 
peoples.  Floods  and  energy  and  drought-induced  food 
crises  continue  in  some  parts  of  the  world,  and  such 
crucial  issues  require  greater  mobilization  on  the  part 
of the international community.
This  year  we  will  renew  the  debate  on  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  system,  while  putting 
particular  emphasis  on  the  global  governance  that  it 
embodies.  The  Organization  remains  the  keystone  of 
the new world order and the conscience of humankind. 
A/67/PV.11
That is why the need is greater than ever for a United 
Nations  that  can  take  on  a  more  leading  role  in  that 
global  governance,  a  groundbreaking  organization 
that  will  be  at  the  forefront  of  actions  promoting  an 
inclusive  framework  and  global  and  lasting  solutions 
to all the crises that trouble our world and have direct 
repercussions for human rights.
and 
and  growing 
Increasing  multipolarization 
economic 
globalization,  the  recent  evolution  of  world  economic 
governance 
cooperation  between 
emerging  countries  have  all  presented  valuable 
development  opportunities  to  many  countries  around 
the world. The United Nations is the most universal and 
representative intergovernmental organization with the 
greatest authority, and it is the most important platform 
for achieving multilateralism. Since its establishment it 
has played a huge and irreplaceable role in maintaining 
world  peace,  promoting  shared  development  and 
strengthening  international  cooperation.  In  today’s 
world its role must be reinforced, not weakened.
The  Central  African  Republic  will  continue  to 
support the essential and rational reform of the United 
Nations  in  line  with  the  evolution  of  the  international 
situation,  in  order  to  increase  its  authority  and 
effectiveness,  strengthen  its  capacity  to  deal  with 
new  threats  and  challenges  and  better  implement 
the  mandates  entrusted  to  it  by  the  Charter.  Both 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
necessary  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to 
meet the legitimate aspirations of developing countries, 
in particular in Africa, are certainly valid.
The  issue  of  civilian  resources  needed  in  post-
conf lict  situations  takes  us  back  to  the  Organization’s 
initial purpose: to be a centre for the coordinated efforts 
of nations to maintain international peace and security 
through peaceful means. The Charter has given rise to 
two  texts  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes:  the 
General Assembly Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement of International Disputes of 1982 (resolution 
37/10, annex) and the 1988 Declaration on the Prevention 
and  Removal  of  Disputes  and  Situations  Which  May 
Threaten  International  Peace  and  Security  and  on  the 
Role  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  Field  (resolution 
43/51, annex). We could also mention resolution 47/120, 
entitled  “An  Agenda  for  Peace”,  drawn  up  following 
the summit meeting of the Security Council in January 
1992  convened  to  establish  a  doctrine  of  preventive 
diplomacy  in  order  to  anticipate  crises  or  to  facilitate 
their  settlement  through  the  mechanisms  of  good 
12-52219
35
A/67/PV.11
offices, mediators and special envoys of the Secretary-
General supported by the Mediation Support Unit.
In  that  context,  the  Government  of  the  Central 
African  Republic  welcomes 
the  African  Union’s 
launching of the African Solidarity Initiative in July. Its 
aim is to mobilize contributions of all kinds in support of 
the various reconstruction phases in African countries 
emerging from conf lict. Post-conf lict reconstruction is 
complex  and  requires  short-,  medium-  and  long-term 
programmes  to  prevent  violence  from  escalating  and 
the  reoccurrence  of  violent  conf lict  and  to  strengthen 
and consolidate a lasting peace.
Under  the  presidency  of  President  Bozizé,  the 
Central African Republic, a post-conf lict country that 
owes  much  to  the  virtues  of  dialogue,  quickly  noted 
the  significance  of  such  a  tool  in  the  prevention  and 
settlement  of  national  crises.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to draw the international community’s attention to 
the fact that the Central African Government has made 
the  issue  of  mediation  a  priority  concern  in  its  work 
plan. To that end, it established the National Mediation 
Council.
We  should  perhaps  go  further  in  establishing 
civilian  mediation  bodies  for  the  restoration  of  peace, 
whose  members  would  be  charged  with  visiting  the 
warring parties in order to establish dialogue between 
them  and  to  help  them  to  settle  their  disputes  through 
peaceful means.
The  Central  African  Republic  affirms  that  there 
can  be  no  rule  of  law  without  respect  for  and  the 
promotion  of  rights  and  freedoms,  including  that  of 
religion, which should be practiced without extremism, 
the  consequences  of  which  often  lead  to  a  clash  of 
civilizations. Regional and international meetings have 
taken place in the context of the dialogue of civilizations. 
However,  violence  and  intolerance  continue  to  affect 
social relations.
This  is  the  place  to  express  to  the  American 
people  the  sincere  condolences  of  the  Central  African 
Government  over  the  attacks  on  the  United  States 
consulate  in  Benghazi,  which  led  to  the  death  of 
innocent victims. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting. 
I  now  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  who  wishes  to  speak  in  exercise  the 
right of reply. 
I  would  like  to  remind  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  statement 
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Sahraei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This 
morning,  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  friendly  State  of 
Kuwait  referred  in  his  statement  to  the  three  Iranian 
islands  located  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  In  that  regard,  I 
would like to state the following.
The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
reiterates its full sovereignty over the Iranian islands of 
Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb in the Persian 
Gulf and categorically rejects any claim to the contrary. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran underlines that measures 
taken by Iranian officials regarding those islands have 
always been conducted on the basis of the principle of 
the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran.
My country has always pursued a policy of friendship 
and  good-neighbourliness  with  all  neighbouring 
countries. In that context, Iran stands ready to discuss 
the  issue  bilaterally  with  the  relevant  officials  in  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
relations  in  various  fields  and,  accordingly,  to  resolve 
any  possible  misunderstanding  by  the  other  party.  As 
has  been  regularly  reiterated,  the  territorial  integrity 
and sovereignty of Iran regarding those islands are not 
negotiable. 
In relation to the references made in the statements 
of  a  few  delegations,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
wishes  to  stress  that  the  only  correct  and  historically 
and  universally  recognized  name  for  the  sea  between 
Iran and the Arabian Peninsula is the Persian Gulf. Any 
use of fabricated or incomplete names for that body of 
water is therefore completely groundless and absolutely 
unacceptable  and  bears  no  legal,  geographical  or 
political value.
The meeting rose at 10.40 p.m.
36 
12-52219
