United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
34th plenary meeting
Monday, 12 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.34
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 110
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other elections
(a) Election of seven members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination 
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/125/Rev.1)
The  President:  Pursuant  to  General  Assembly 
decision  42/450  of  17  December  1987  and  upon 
nomination  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the 
Assembly  elects  the  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme and Coordination.
The Assembly has before it document A/67/125/Rev.1, 
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and 
Social Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee that 
will occur as a result of the expiration on 31 December 
2012  of  the  terms  of  office  of  the  Comoros,  France, 
Haiti,  Israel,  Namibia,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  These  States  are 
eligible for immediate re-election.
I should like to remind members that, after 1 January 
2013, the following States will remain members of the 
Committee: Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Belarus,  Benin,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  China, 
Cuba,  Eritrea,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Malaysia, 
Pakistan,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Uruguay  and  Zimbabwe.  Therefore,  these 
23 States are not eligible in this election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and Social Council: Botswana and the United Republic 
of  Tanzania  for  the  two  seats  among  the  African 
States;  the  Russian  Federation  for  the  one  seat  among 
the  Eastern  European  States;  Peru  for  one  of  the  two 
seats among the Latin American and Caribbean States; 
and France for one of the two seats among the Western 
European and other States.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
all elections shall be held by secret ballot and there shall 
be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should  like  to  recall 
paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly  decision  34/401, 
whereby the practice of dispensing with the secret ballot 
for  elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of 
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be 
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation 
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  number  of  States  nominated 
from  among  the  African  States,  the  Eastern  European 
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and 
the  Western  European  and  other  States  is  equal  to  or 
less  than  the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled  in  each  of 
those groups. 
May  I  therefore  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes 
to  declare  those  States  nominated  by  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  —  Botswana,  France,  Peru, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-58495 (E)
*1258495*
A/67/PV.34
the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania  —  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme  and  Coordination  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2013?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  congratulate  the  States  that 
have  just  been  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme and Coordination.
Members  are  reminded  that  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  postponed  the  nomination  of  one 
member from the Latin American and Caribbean States 
and one member from the Western European and other 
States  for  election  for  a  three-year  term  beginning  on 
1  January  2013.  The  General  Assembly  will  be  in  a 
position to act on these vacancies upon nomination by 
the Economic and Social Council.
We  have 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 110.
(d) Election of 18 members of the Human 
Rights Council 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed with the election of 18 members of the Human 
Rights Council to replace those members whose term of 
office expires on 31 December 2012.
The 18 outgoing members are Bangladesh, Belgium, 
Cameroon,  China,  Cuba,  Djibouti,  Hungary,  Jordan, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Nigeria,  Norway,  the 
Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, the United 
States of America and Uruguay.
In  accordance  with  paragraph  7  of  General 
Assembly  resolution  60/251  of  15  March  2006,  these 
Member  States  are  eligible  for  immediate  re-election, 
except  those  that  have  served  two  consecutive  terms, 
namely, Bangladesh, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, 
Jordan,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Nigeria, 
the  Russian 
Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal and Uruguay.
The  18  vacant  seats  should  be  distributed  among 
the regional groups as follows: five seats for the African 
States; five seats for the Asia-Pacific States; two seats 
for  the  Eastern  European  States;  three  seats  for  the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States;  and  three  seats 
for the Western European and other States.
In accordance with resolution 60/251, membership 
in  the  Council  shall  be  open  to  all  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations,  and  the  members  of  the  Council 
shall serve for a period of three years. The members of 
the  Council  shall  be  elected  directly  and  individually, 
by secret ballot, by the majority of the members of the 
General  Assembly.  Accordingly,  97  votes  constitute 
a  majority  in  the  General  Assembly,  which  has  a 
membership of 193 States.
In accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of resolution 
65/281 of 17 June 2011, beginning in 2013, the Human 
Rights  Council  will  start  its  yearly  membership  cycle 
on 1 January and, as a transitional measure, the period 
of  office  of  members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
ending in June 2012, June 2013 and June 2014 has been 
exceptionally  extended  until  the  end  of  the  respective 
calendar year.
The following States will continue to be members 
of the Human Rights Council: Angola, Austria, Benin, 
Botswana, Burkina Faso, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, the 
Czech Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, 
Italy,  Kuwait,  Libya,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mauritania, 
Peru,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Qatar,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Spain,  Switzerland,  Thailand  and 
Uganda. 
The  names  of  these  States,  therefore,  should  not 
appear on the ballot papers.
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant rules of procedure of the General Assembly on 
elections. For this election, rules 92 and 94 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly shall be applied. 
Consistent  with 
the  practice  of 
the  General 
Assembly, if more than the required number of Member 
States  have  obtained  the  votes  of  the  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  on  the  same  ballot,  those 
Member  States  that  have  obtained  the  largest  number 
of votes above the required majority will be considered 
as elected, up to the number of seats to be filled. Also, 
consistent  with  past  practice,  in  case  due  to  a  tie  vote 
it should become necessary to determine one candidate 
to  be  elected  or  that  will  proceed  to  the  next  round  of 
restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
those procedures?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  Accordingly,  the  election  shall  be 
held by secret ballot and there shall be no nominations.
2 
12-58495
Again,  I  should  like  to  repeat  that  the  18  vacant 
seats  are  to  be  filled  from  among  the  regional  groups 
as follows: five seats from among the Group of African 
States, five seats from among the Group of Asia-Pacific 
States,  two  seats  from  among  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States, three seats from among the Group of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  three  seats 
from among the Group of Western European and other 
States. The ballot papers ref lect that pattern.
In addition, I have been informed by the Secretariat 
that  the  voluntary  pledges  and  commitments  made  by 
Member  States  in  accordance  with  paragraph  8  of 
resolution  60/251  were  accordingly  issued  as  official 
documents  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no  representative 
shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order on 
the actual conduct of the voting.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers marked “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E” will now be 
distributed. Each ballot paper is assigned to one of the 
five regional groups and has the corresponding number 
of blank lines for the seats assigned to that region.
I  request  representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot 
papers  and  to  write  on  them  the  names  of  the  States 
for which they wish to vote. A ballot paper containing 
more names from the relevant region than the number 
of  seats  assigned  to  it  will  be  declared  invalid.  A 
ballot  will  also  be  declared  invalid  if  all  the  names  of 
the  Member  States  on  that  ballot  do  not  belong  to  the 
relevant  region.  If  a  ballot  paper  of  a  region  includes 
both  the  names  of  Member  States  that  belong  to  and 
that are from outside of that region, the ballot remains 
valid  but  only  the  names  of  the  Member  States  that 
belong to the relevant region will be counted. If a ballot 
paper  contains  names  of  Member  States  that  are  not 
eligible for re-election or that are currently members of 
the  Council,  the  ballot  remains  valid  but  those  names 
will not be counted.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Ms.  Ruski 
(Bulgaria),  Mr.  Louis  (Colombia),  Mr.  Weydert 
(Luxembourg),  Mr.  Yadamsuren 
(Mongolia), 
Ms.  Ashipala  (Namibia),  Ms.  Al-Sweel  (Saudi 
Arabia),  Mr.  Kvas  (Ukraine)  and  Mr.  Silwamba 
(Zambia) acted as tellers. 
A/67/PV.34
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
Mr. Beck (Palau), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.45  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.50 a.m. 
The  Acting  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is 
as follows:
Group A — African States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Gabon 
Côte d’Ivoire 
Sierra Leone 
Kenya 
Ethiopia 
Sudan 
Tanzania 
Rwanda 
Group B — Asian States 
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
United Arab Emirates 
Kazakhstan 
Japan 
Republic of Korea 
Pakistan 
Group C — Eastern European States 
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Estonia 
Montenegro 
193
0
193
2
191
97
187
183
182
180
178
4
1
1
193 
0
193
2
191
97
184
183
182
176
171
193
1
192
5
187
97
184
182
12-58495
3
A/67/PV.34
Group D — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 
193
1
192
3
189
97
Brazil 
Argentina 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of ) 
Bolivia (Plurinational State of ) 
Panama 
184
176
154
2
1
Group E — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
193
1
192
2
190
97
United States of America 
Germany 
Ireland 
131
127
124
Greece 
Sweden 
Netherlands 
78
75
1
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
largest  number  of  votes  of  the  members  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  following  18  States  were 
elected members of the Human Rights Council for 
a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2013:  Argentina,  Brazil,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Germany, 
Ireland,  Japan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Montenegro,  Pakistan,  the 
Republic  of Korea,  Sierra Leone,  the  United Arab 
Emirates,  the  United  States  of  America  and  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
The Acting President: I congratulate those States 
that  have  been  elected  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  I  thank  the  tellers  for  their  assistance  in  this 
election. 
  The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration of sub-item (d) of agenda item 110. 
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
4 
12-58495
