United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
31st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 6 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.31
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Gaspar Martins 
(Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 71 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/67/4)
Mr.  Weisleder  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The Costa Rican delegation thanks Judge Peter Tomka, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his 
report on the Court’s work (A/67/4) and for his presence 
here in the Assembly today. 
This  is  an  apt  occasion  to  reiterate  our  country’s 
absolute  belief  in  the  rule  of  law,  our  respect  for  the 
instruments and institutions of international law and our 
commitment scrupulously to respect and abide by all of 
their decisions. Costa Rica attaches great importance to 
the International Court of Justice. In keeping with that 
respect,  we  have  recognized  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction since 1973.
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
is  one  of  the  principal  reasons  for  being  of  the  United 
Nations.  As  the  sole  international  court  with  global 
jurisdiction and one of the principal organs of the United 
Nations, the Court, in its work to settle such disputes, is 
a fundamental tool for the maintenance of international 
peace and security. It is therefore the responsibility of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  States  Members  to  support 
the Court in its work. To deliver that support, the United 
Nations must provide the Court sufficient resources for 
it to process the cases brought before it effectively and 
with complete procedural and juridical independence. 
We are pleased that the Organization’s support and 
the Court’s diligent efforts have succeeded in clearing 
the accumulated backlog in cases to be heard, and that 
now that the written phase of processing cases has been 
concluded  we  may  now  move  on  expeditiously  to  the 
oral phase.
Still more important in the cause of strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  Court  itself  is  for  all  States 
without exception to respect its rulings and provisional 
measures.  Such  a  categorical,  good-faith  respect 
is  essential  to  ensuring  the  integrity  of  cases  and 
solidifying  the  key  role  of  the  Court  in  maintaining 
justice and peace.
Along  those  lines,  Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  fact 
that  the  Declaration  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(resolution 67/1), held on 24 September, underlined both 
the importance of the Court and the absolute necessity 
of abiding by its decisions.
Lastly,  I  want  to  congratulate  Judges  Owada, 
Tomka  and  Xue  on  their  re-election,  as  well  as  Judge 
Gaja  on  his  election.  We  commend  the  Court  for  its 
efficient and transparent work, and we reiterate our full 
confidence in its continuing efforts to bolster peace and 
justice in carrying out its duties.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-57486 (E)
*1257486*
A/67/PV.31
Mr. Panin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
We would like to thank the President of the International 
Court of Justice, Mr. Peter Tomka, for his briefing.
The  Organization’s  calendar  year  began  with  the 
holding  of  the  landmark  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels, 
held on 24 September. That was a complex event whose 
outcome,  which  garnered  conf licting  assessments 
from States, will be discussed for a long time to come. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
has  proved  to  be  one  of  those  rare  cases  about  which 
States were unanimous during the High-level Meeting 
in  giving  positive  assessments.  In  that  connection,  I 
cannot fail to say a few words about the significance of 
the Court, not only as a key body in resolving disputes 
between States but as a body that plays a special role in 
strengthening the rule of law in international relations. 
As  is  rightly  noted  in  the  report  of  the  Court 
(A/67/4), all the work of that organ is aimed at promoting 
the  rule  of  law.  Today  the  Court  not  only  settles  land 
and  maritime  border  disputes  between  neighbouring 
States  —  as  it  primarily  did  during  the  early  period 
of  its  existence  —  but  its  caseload  also  includes 
international  concerns  spanning  a  range  of  issues 
from  States’  jurisdictional  immunity  to  questions  of 
territorial  integrity.  In  adjudicating  such  complicated 
international issues, the Court is creating international 
law and actively furthering its broader recognition and 
dissemination.
Today  the  International  Court  of  Justice’s  work  is 
in  one  of  the  most  active  phases  in  its  history.  It  has 
considered  15  contentious  cases  and  one  adviosry 
procedure.  It  has  produced  decisions  on  some  very 
complex  issues,  the  most  interesting  of  which  are 
the  judgements  in  the  case  concerning  Jurisdictional 
Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v.  Italy:  Greece 
intervening),
the 
extraordinarily important principle of the supremacy of 
the jurisdictional immunity of sovereign States, and the 
case concerning Questions relating to the Obligation to 
Prosecute or Extradite (Belgium v. Senegal), in which 
the  prosecute-or-extradite  principle  was  powerfully 
elaborated.
the  Court  affirmed 
in  which 
Noting  the  steady  upward  trend  in  the  Court’s 
caseload  and  the  momentum  of  its  proceedings,  we 
welcome the efforts of its leaders aimed at optimizing 
its  legal  processes.  The  simultaneous  consideration  of 
cases, the great pace of proceedings in the chambers, the 
regular  updating  of  practical  procedures  and  working 
methods,  the  speedier  consideration  of  incidental 
cases  relating  to  provisional  measures,  applications 
for  permission  to  intervene  and  other  measures  —  all 
of  that  has  enabled  the  Court  to  speed  up  its  ability 
to  deliver  judgements  without  hindering  their  quality. 
That  modernization  of  the  chief  judicial  body  of  the 
United  Nations  also  changes  the  attitude  that  States 
have  to  it.  It  is  evident  that  in  the  eyes  of  States  the 
Court is gradually becoming more modern and is seen 
as the proper body for settling international disputes.
When  it  comes  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law 
it  is  precisely  such  genuinely  functioning  bodies  as 
the  International  Court  of  justice,  with  its  universal 
recognition  and  the  trust  of  States,  that  should  be 
strengthened  and  supported;  we  should  not  try  to 
introduce  a  proliferation  of  new,  dubious  bodies 
with  unclear  status  and  confused  mandates.  In  that 
connection,  we  are  pleased  that  in  the  budget  period 
under  review  we  have  been  able  to  resolve  various 
financial  and  staffing  problems  for  the  Court.  We 
believe that the issues of providing additional funding 
for  the  Court,  modernizing  its  legal  processes  and 
supporting  its  judges’  special  status  should  be  settled 
without  delay.  For  our  part,  we  are  prepared  to  make 
every effort necessary to achieving that goal.
We  are  convinced  that  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  will  remain  a  model  of  an  objective  and 
independent international judiciary whose authoritative 
opinion on the most complex issues will always help to 
strengthen international law.
Mrs.  Martínez  Lievano  (Mexico)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Mexico  would  like  to 
express  its  deep  appreciation  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  for  the  hard  work  accomplished  this 
year. We also thank the Court’s President, Judge Peter 
Tomka, who a few days ago (see A/67/PV.29) presented 
a  report  (A/67/4)  that  gives  a  clear  picture  of  the 
disputes  currently  before  the  Court  and  demonstrates 
its universal nature.
We would also like to congratulate Judge Tomka and 
Judge  Bernardo  Sepúlveda-Amor  on  their  respective 
elections as President and Vice-President of the Court. 
The election of Judge Sepúlveda-Amor, a distinguished 
Mexican jurist, makes us proud. Mexico would also like 
to express its appreciation to the Registrar of the Court, 
Mr. Philippe Couvreur, for his excellent performance.
In this brief statement, Mexico wishes to highlight 
the  great  legal  value  of  the  Court’s  decisions,  both 
2 
12-57486
for  the  parties  concerned  in  the  disputes  and  for  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  The  Court  plays 
an  essential  role  in  the  development  of  international 
law,  particularly  in  leading  a  dialogue  with  other 
jurisdictional  bodies, 
international 
law  and  preventing  its  fragmentation.  In  that  regard, 
we  deem  particularly  relevant  the  recent  judgements 
in  which  the  Court  cited  precedents  derived  from 
other  tribunals’  jurisdiction,  such  as  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the European and 
Inter-American Courts of Human Rights.
thus  enriching 
Our  delegation  would  also  like  to  call  on  the 
General Assembly to provide the Court with the means 
necessary for its optimal performance as the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations.
the 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  Declaration 
adopted  at  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of 
Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels  in 
September  (resolution  67/1)  is  a  clear  demonstration 
of 
to 
strengthening international law and one that recognizes 
the important contribution of the International Court of 
Justice to strengthening the rule of law. In that context, 
we call on States that have not yet done so to accept the 
Court’s jurisdiction.
international  community’s  commitment 
Mr. Errázuriz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Allow me 
to convey my delegation’s greetings to the President of 
the International Court of Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, 
who  presented  a  comprehensive  report  covering  the 
period from 1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 (A/67/4).
We value the great responsibility of the International 
Court  of  Justice  and  its  work  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  President’s  report 
clearly ref lects that tradition and deserves our gratitude. 
We are members of the international community and we 
share with it the respect for the Court’s institutionality, 
its  mission  and  its  work,  which  ref lects  the  primacy 
of  international  law.  We  join  with  those  who  have 
highlighted the fundamental task as a consultative body 
that  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  has  entrusted 
to  the  Court,  a  function  that  it  has  discharged  with 
exemplary  clarity  and  commitment,  bringing,  through 
its decisions, security and stability to the Organization 
and to States as whole.
We  note  in  particular  the  contribution  the  Court 
makes  to  relations  between  States  on  the  basis  of 
the  application  of  international  law  and  by  adding 
to  its  effectiveness.  The  Court  is  an  essential  part  of 
A/67/PV.31
the  international  legal  system.  States  recognize  and 
appreciate its leading role and the assurances it provides 
to  all  the  members  of  the  international  community 
within its purview.
As  the  President  pointed  out,  the  Court’s  purview 
is  based  on  multilateral  and  bilateral  treaties  and  on 
States’  unilateral  declarations,  all  of  it  in  accordance 
with the system as laid down in the Rome Statute. The 
Court’s  judicial  resolution  of  disputes  embodies  one 
of  the  essential  goals  of  the  international  legal  order 
concerning  the  stability  of  relations  between  States 
and guarantees of existing standards. We are convinced 
that,  in  the  framework  of  international  peace  and 
security, the Court contributes to strengthening relations 
between States and to establishing an international legal 
order that respects the law, together with the rule of law 
and respect for human rights, adapting the fundamental 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to  the 
requirements of contemporary life. 
We  join  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  principal 
legal organ of the system, in expressing our respect and 
support  for  the  Court.  We  trust  that  the  Organization 
will  continue  to  ensure  the  Court’s  autonomy  and  to 
provide  the  necessary  human  and  material  resources, 
as required for its legal duties and important functions. 
My  country  greatly  appreciates  the  dissemination 
of  public  information  that  the  Court  undertakes  with 
regard  to  its  work  and  its  outreach  with  regard  to  its 
teachings and activities. We hope that resources will be 
made available to continue in that direction, providing 
the  Court  with  the  means  and  technological  resources 
for  that  purpose.  We  know  how  much  the  Court  is 
doing to disseminate information about its work and to 
support the efforts of those who consult its documents. 
That effort will surely ensure that international law is 
enforced. We want to make our contribution to ensuring 
that will always be the case when it comes to relations 
among States.
In conclusion, I would like to say that we recognize 
the  valuable  work  of  the  Court  that  Judge  Tomka 
presides  over,  which  aligns  itself  with  the  observance 
of  international  law  as  a  requirement  and  sentiment, 
contributing to its effectiveness and its implementation.
Mr. Tladi (South Africa): Allow me to congratulate 
Judge  Peter  Tomka  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  as  well  as  to  thank 
him  for  his  statement  made  last  Thursday  (see  A/67/
PV.29). I also thank the Court for its report (A/67/4). In 
12-57486
3
A/67/PV.31
addition, I wish to thank all the members of the Court 
for  their  work  over  the  reporting  period.  And  I  wish 
to congratulate the new members of the Court, Judges 
Sebutinde,  Gaja  and  Bhandari,  on  their  first-time 
election to the Court. I also extend our congratulations 
to  Judges  Owada,  Tomka  and  Xue  Hanqin  on  their 
re-election.
This year, the focus of the United Nations has been 
on rule-of-law issues. In January, during South Africa’s 
presidency of the Security Council, the Council held a 
debate  at  which  it  adopted  a  presidential  statement  on 
the rule of law (S/PRST/2012/1). Only two weeks ago, 
the Council also held a debate on the rule of law focused 
on the relationship between the International Criminal 
Court  and  the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.6849).  On 
24  September,  the  General  Assembly  held  a  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International Levels, at which a Declaration was adopted 
by heads of State and Government (resolution 67/1).
An  important  focus  of  those  United  Nations 
rule-of-law-related  activities  has  been  the  work  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  South  Africa’s  own 
participation  in  the  activities  has  been  to  highlight 
the  important  and  critical  role  that  the  Court  can  play 
in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  in  advancing 
the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations 
by  providing  a  forum  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  In  that  regard,  the  Declaration  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  recognizes  the  positive  contribution  of 
the  Court  to  the  adjudication  of  disputes  and  to  the 
promotion of the rule of law. Similarly, in its presidential 
statement,  the  Security  Council  emphasized  the  key 
role of the Court in adjudicating disputes and the value 
of  its  work  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security.
The  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  is 
indispensable  for  durable  peace  and  security,  cannot 
f lourish  in  a  world  in  which  all  States  have  a  near 
limitless right to interpret international law as they deem 
fit.  My  delegation  has,  countless  times,  stressed  the 
need  to  avoid  auto-interpretation  and  auto-application 
of  international  law.  In  that  regard,  the  Court  can 
play an important role in being the final arbiter on the 
content of international law.
As we all know, the Court plays its important role 
not only in the context of the settlement of disputes in 
cases brought by States, but also through the provision 
of  advisory  opinions.  We  are  therefore  pleased  that, 
over  the  years,  the  Court  has  had  an  opportunity  to 
clarify a number of important legal principles relevant 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  including  through 
its  advisory  opinion  on  the  Legal  consequences  of 
the  construction  of  a  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory  (see  A/ES-10/273)  and  many  other  advisory 
opinions. In that regard, I refer to advisory opinions to 
stress  that  South  Africa  will,  as  appropriate,  support 
the  referral  of  questions  of  law  to  the  International 
Court of Justice for such opinions.
Turning to the current work of the Court during the 
reporting  period,  we  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Court 
was very active and productive, holding three hearings, 
delivering an advisory opinion and handing down four 
judgements,  including  one  or  two  much-anticipated 
ones. While we do not wish to pronounce ourselves on 
judgements made by the Court, we would like to make 
some observations on the importance of some of those 
cases for the development of a rich body of law.
While the Court’s judgement in the case Questions 
relating  to  the  Obligation  to  Prosecute  or  Extradite 
(Belgium  v.  Senegal)  was  restricted  to  the  obligation 
as  contained  in  article  7  of  the  Convention  against 
Torture, we note that the formulation of the aut dedere 
aut judicare principle in the Convention closely follows 
the  trend  ref lected  in  The  Hague  Convention  for  the 
Suppression  of  Unlawful  Seizure  of  Aircraft,  namely, 
that the custodial State shall, if it does not extradite the 
individual  in  question,  be  obliged,  without  exception, 
to  submit  the  case  to  its  authority —  a  trend  followed 
in  the  more  recent  articulation  of  the  principle  and, 
indeed, a point that is alluded to in paragraph 90 of the 
judgement of the Court and more elaborately canvassed 
in the separate opinion of Judge Yusuf. We are pleased 
that the Court has clarified the nature of the obligation, 
which  is  something  that  has  been  the  subject  of  much 
discussion,  by  holding  that  the  primary  obligation 
implied  by  aut  dedere  principle  is  the  obligation  to 
prosecute,  while  extradition  is  an  option  offered  to  a 
State by the Convention.
The  Court’s  judgement  in  the  case  Questions 
relating  to  the  Obligation  to  Prosecute  or  Extradite 
(Belgium v. Senegal) was also insightful in its conclusion 
that  the  prohibition  against  torture  was  a  peremptory 
norm  of  international  law  —  ius  cogens.  While  the 
Court’s judgement is not definitive, the Court seems to 
be suggesting that the fact that the prohibition against 
torture is ius cogens does not, in and of itself, activate 
the aut dedere aut judicare obligation. 
4 
12-57486
The question of the legal consequences, or perhaps 
implication,  of  ius  cogens  norms  is  another  question 
of  importance  in  contemporary  international  law  that 
affects  such  important  topics  as  immunities,  and  even 
universal jurisdiction. We have noted that the Court, in 
paragraph 93 of its judgement in the case Jurisdictional 
Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v.  Italy:  Greece 
intervening)  addresses  that  question  by  noting  the 
differences between procedural norms and substantive 
norms. That view can be contrasted with Judge Cançado 
Trindade’s dissenting opinion, as well as the joint separate 
opinion of Judges Higgins, Kooijmans and Buergenthal, 
in 
the  case  Arrest  Warrant  of  11  April  2000 
(Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  v.  Belgium). 
Indeed, in the case Questions relating to the Obligation 
to  Prosecute  or  Extradite  (Belgium  v.  Senegal), 
Judge  Cançado  Trindade  expressed  the  view  that  the 
articulation  of  a  norm  as  ius  cogens  had  the  effect  of 
creating  an  obligation  of  result,  and  not  just  one  of 
conduct.
Moreover,  while  the  separate  opinion  of  Judge 
Bennounna  and  the  dissenting  opinions  of  Judges 
Yusuf  and  Gaja  do  not  directly  address  the  question 
of the interaction between ius cogens and other norms 
of  international  law,  the  sentiments  expressed  therein 
about  the  interaction  of  norms  of  international  law 
appear  more  in  tune  with  Judge  Higgins,  Kooijmans 
and Buergenthal’s separate opinion and Judge Cançado 
Trindade’s separate opinion with respect to ius cogens 
and its relationship with other norms.
How does the latter approach, which is intuitively 
attractive,  compare  with  the  Court’s  treatment  of  the 
relationship between substantive and procedural norms 
in the context of ius cogens? We are hopeful that, over 
the coming years, the various judgements and opinions 
of the Court will contribute to a thorough examination 
of those and other issues of importance to international 
law.
The  richness  of  the  judgements  of  the  Court,  as 
well  as  the  individual  opinions  of  the  members  of  the 
Court, are proof of the contribution, recognized in the 
high-level Declaration, that the Court has made to the 
rule of law.
Allow  us,  finally  to  congratulate  the  Court  on 
the  renovation  of  the  Great  Hall  of  Justice,  which  we 
are  sure  will  continue  to  serve  as  the  monument  of 
international justice.
A/67/PV.31
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the Plurinational State 
of  Bolivia,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for 
the  excellent  report  presented  by  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Peter  Tomka 
(A/67/4), which covers the Court’s work from 1 August 
2011 to 31 July 2012. 
In  the  International  Court  of  Justice  the  United 
Nations  has  the  principal  reference  for  what  the 
international  community  considers  to  be  universal 
justice.  Its  main  contribution  is  its  function  as  a 
mechanism  for  the  peaceful,  fair  and  legal  settlement 
of  disputes  —  a  civilized  way  of  handling  disputes 
between States. Progress in international law has made 
it  possible  to  reject  outdated  practices  such  as  the 
unilateral  imposition  of  measures  by  strong  States  on 
weaker  ones,  as  well  as  to  prohibit  the  threat  or  use 
of force and the conquest of territory by neighbouring 
States.  The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the 
main  judicial  body  of  the  United  Nations,  clearly  acts 
as  guarantor,  protecting  States  threatened  by  such 
contentious  practices.  In  that  context,  it  is  important 
to  highlight 
that 
crystallize those principles of international law, which 
in  turn  form  the  foundations  of  the  Court’s  rulings.  It 
is  precisely  for  that  reason  that  Bolivia  reiterates  its 
support  for  the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes  (resolution  37/10, 
annex),  adopted  on  15  November  1982.  In  Section  II, 
paragraph 5, the Declaration states that:
the  United  Nations  resolutions 
“Recourse  to  judicial  settlement  of  legal  disputes, 
particularly  referral  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, should not be considered an unfriendly act 
between States.”
There  has  been  a  healthy  trend  in  the  conduct 
of  States  towards  submitting  their  disputes  to  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction.  Members  of  the  international 
community  have  gone  even  further,  not  only  working 
to  resolve  differences  peacefully  but  even  seeking 
through  peaceful  settlements  to  improve  relationships 
of friendship, political relations and trade links, in the 
spirit of the Manila Declaration. 
Bolivia  agrees  with 
the  opinion  voiced  by 
other  delegations  during  the  general  debate  of  this 
sixty-seventh  session  to  heed  the  wise  call  by  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  to  seek  to  bring  about  the 
settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations  by 
peaceful  means.  The  Court’s  most  prominent  work 
12-57486
5
A/67/PV.31
was  also  highlighted  during  the  recently  held  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
and  International  Levels.  The  Declaration  adopted  at 
the  Meeting  (resolution  67/1)  recognized  the  positive 
contribution made by the International Court of Justice 
and  reaffirmed  the  obligation  of  States  to  respect  and 
comply with the judgements and rulings of the Court.
The vast majority of the members of the international 
community  ardently  desire  that  the  mechanism  for 
the  judicial  settlement  of  disputes  —  which  the 
International Court of Justice has the responsibility to 
implement — be universally accepted, with ever more 
States  recognizing  its  jurisdiction  and  honouring  its 
fundamental  role  in  maintaining  international  peace. 
In  that  connection,  we  call  on  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  to  recognize  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
and  to  see  its  judgements  as  a  reaffirmation  of  the 
primacy of international law.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  would  first 
of  all  like  to  congratulate  Judge  Peter  Tomka  on  his 
well-deserved election as President of the International 
Court  of  Justice. We  also  congratulate  the  new judges 
on their elections to the Court.
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  (A/67/4),  which  contains  a  comprehensive 
presentation  on  the  activities  of  the  Court  during  the 
period under review. The dual role of the Court as the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  a 
court of unique and universal jurisdiction enables it to 
render impartial decisions in the peaceful settlement of 
disputes. Over the years, the Court has not only served 
in advancing international peace and security through 
its  rulings  and  judicial  notices  but  also  contributed 
immensely to the corpus of international jurisprudence. 
The  Court’s  judgements  and  advice  invariably  have 
had  salutary  effects  on  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security in all regions.
to 
In that connection, we note the contribution of the 
Court  towards  the  delineation  of  land  and  maritime 
borders between Nigeria and the Republic of Cameroon, 
which  contributed  significantly 
the  peaceful 
resolution  of  the  problem.  On  10  October  2002,  the 
Court ruled on the ceding of the Bakassi Peninsula to 
the Republic of Cameroon after Nigeria submitted to the 
Court’s jurisdiction. That marked a significant turning 
point  in  the  history  of  Nigeria.  In  the  period  since, 
Nigeria has not only maintained its utmost respect for 
the rule of law by implementing the decision in full but 
has  also  adhered  to  its  international  commitment  to 
respect its neighbour’s borders and territorial integrity, 
in  the  interest  of  promoting  international  peace  and 
security.
the 
implementation  of 
Nigeria  has  always  chosen  the  path  of  dialogue 
and  negotiations  in  the  settlement  of  regional  and 
international  disputes.  We  firmly  believe  that  other 
States  should  do  likewise.  Nigeria  also  faithfully 
pursued 
the  Green  Tree 
Agreement, including the dismantling of all its civil and 
military structures in territories ceded to Cameroon. It 
is our hope that vestiges of problems, especially those 
related  to  the  resettlement  of  displaced  communities 
and  human  rights  and  humanitarian  concerns,  will 
be  addressed  constructively  in  the  coming  weeks  and 
months,  in  order  lay  to  rest  the  outstanding  issues 
between our two countries.
Despite  such  successes,  we  note  that  things  have 
not  always  progressed  satisfactorily  in  relation  to  the 
Court’s activities. Last year, for instance, we witnessed 
several  contentious  cases  that  came  before  the  Court, 
cutting  across  all  stratums,  such  as  territorial  and 
maritime delimitation, violations of territorial integrity, 
racial  discrimination,  violations  of  human  rights  and 
the  interpretation  and  application  of  international 
conventions and treaties, among others. In spite of the 
challenges,  we  commend  the  Court’s  discharge  of  its 
responsibilities  in  the  delivery  of  judgments  —  six 
orders  and  public  hearings  in  five  contentious  cases 
during  the  period  were  delivered.  We  also  note  the 
initiation  of  two  new  cases  before  the  Court  and  a 
request for an advisory opinion, which we are confident 
will be delivered with competence, professionalism and 
objectivity.
The  revitalization  of  the  procedures  and  working 
methods  of  the  Court  over  the  years  has  ensured  that 
it  operates  with  the  maximum  level  of  efficiency  and 
transparency.  The  initiatives  and  innovations  that 
were introduced by the Court that led to the successful 
elimination  of  its  backlog  of  cases  and  improved  the 
management of both its human and material resources 
must be commended. 
In  the  face  of  heightened  security  challenges, 
especially those posed by global terrorism, my delegation 
supports the  notion that there is a need for the General 
Assembly to approve, within its resource capacity, the 
allocation of additional funds for the Court to establish 
a security assistant post, so as to strengthen the existing 
security  team  while  improving  other  security  sectors. 
In addition, we support the appointment of more legal 
6 
12-57486
officers  to  handle  the  increasing  number  of  cases 
referred  to  the  Court.  We  note  the  need  to  adequately 
address  the  myriad  administrative  requests  through 
proper budgeting.
means  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  if  the 
need  arises.  The  Court  itself  is  one  such  means  or,  as 
the  President  of  the  Court  put  it  in  his  introduction,  a 
forum of choice.
A/67/PV.31
Nigeria  reiterates  that  the  recourse  to  the  Charter 
provision  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
and  embracing  the  jurisdictional  authority  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  including  referrals  to 
the  Court  for  advisory  opinions,  are  all  strategies  in 
strengthening  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
that  respect,  the  stagnation  in  the  number  of  States  to 
have  recognized  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court,  which  remains  at  67,  with  some  States  having 
registered reservations thereto, after six decades is not 
particularly  encouraging.  An  opportunity  to  garner 
support for the Court was presented during this year’s 
High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National 
and International Levels for States that have not made 
declarations of recognition of the Court to do so. 
Most important, in view of the signiﬁ cant role played 
by the Court in the consolidation of international law, we 
feel that States that have registered reservations should 
be  called  upon  to  withdraw  them.  The  introduction  of 
voluntary pledges made during the High-level Meeting 
was aimed at satisfying the need for States to strengthen 
their resolve to uphold rule-of-law activities at both the 
national and international levels.
Mrs.  Kazragienė  (Lithuania):  Allow  me 
to 
begin  by  thanking  Judge  Peter  Tomka,  President  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  introducing 
the  Court’s  annual  report  (A/67/4)  last  week.  As  is 
evident  from  the  report,  the  Court  made  significant 
efforts during the reporting period in ensuring both the 
competence and efficiency in its judicial activities. We 
note  with  appreciation  that,  notwithstanding  the  wide 
variety  of  legal  topics  and  the  growing  factual,  legal 
and procedural complexity, the Court has successfully 
coped  with  its  workload  and  delivered  four  important 
judgments,  as  well  as  handing  down  an  advisory 
opinion.  Moreover,  it  managed  to  clear  its  backlog  of 
cases, thus providing room for hearing new cases in a 
timely manner.
The  greater  role  of  the  Court  is  largely  dependent 
on the members of the international community. One of 
the primary features of the domain of international law 
in  which  the  Court  operates  is  that  it  is  driven  by  the 
willingness of States, the main actors of the international 
community, and relies upon their voluntary acceptance 
of  commitments.  The  same  applies  to  their  choice  of 
We  see  a  great  opportunity  during  the  current 
session of the General Assembly to advance reliance on 
the Court. The Court’s fundamental role in maintaining 
and  strengthening  the  legitimacy  of  international 
relations  was  manifested  during  both  the  High-level 
Meeting on the Rule of Law and the general debate of 
the  General  Assembly,  as  they  focused  on  the  themes 
pertinent  to  the  purpose  and  activities  of  the  Court. 
We  hope  that  that  momentum  will  continue  to  build 
and translate into more decisive actions. We think that 
will  be  significant  in  increasing  the  importance  of 
international justice.
Lithuania 
is  pleased 
to 
to  contribute 
the 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Court.  During  this 
year’s United Nations treaty event, Lithuania deposited 
with the Secretary-General its declaration recognizing 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  as  compulsory  under 
Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court, 
bringing the total number of States that have done so to 
68.  Lithuania  also  deposited  instruments  of  accession 
to  the  Optional  Protocols  to  the  Vienna  Convention 
on  Diplomatic  Relations  and  the  Vienna  Convention 
on  Consular  Relations  concerning  the  Compulsory 
Settlement  of  Disputes,  which  were  added  to  the  long 
list of treaties in respect to which Lithuania had already 
recognized the Court’s jurisdiction.
That  was  a  logical  step  for  my  country,  as  it 
dovetails  with  the  long-standing  legal  tradition  rooted 
in  the  Permanent  Court  of  International  Justice,  the 
judicial  body  of  the  League  of  Nations.  Basing  its 
statehood  on  the  right  of  the  self-determination  of  its 
people, the Lithuanian State had no choice but to follow 
the ideas of the rule of law and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes  in  its  international  relations.  International 
justice provided at least titular security guarantees for 
the  young  nation.  Not  surprisingly,  Lithuania  was  one 
of the first to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the 
Permanent Court when it signed the optional clause of 
the Permanent Court’s Statute in 1922.
The faith of the Lithuanian Government in reliance 
on  international  justice  was  rewarded  in  full.  The 
Lithuanian  State  defended  its  legitimate  place  among 
independent  nations  and  successfully  stood  up  for  its 
interests in all three cases before the Permanent Court. 
The  three  cases,  all  related  to  different  aspects  of 
12-57486
7
A/67/PV.31
the  territorial  rearrangements  that  followed  the  First 
World  War,  provide  much  valuable  material  for  both 
a  historical  examination  of  international  relations 
in  Europe  between  the  two  World  Wars  and  a  legal 
analysis of the Permanent Court’s judgments, as well as 
the development of international law in general.
No  less  important,  the  recent  recognition  of  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  was  a  constitutional  requirement,  as  it  follows 
constitutional  principles  of  Lithuania  that  necessitate 
respect for universally recognized principles and norms 
of international law and contributing to the creation of 
the international order based on law and justice.
Lithuania  accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction 
of the Court September. We invite all States that have 
not yet done so to do so and thereby join the voluntary 
system  of  the  compulsory  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful  means  and  in  accordance  with  international 
law.
Mrs. Niang (Senegal) (spoke in French): I would like 
at the outset to thank the President of the International 
Court of Justice, Judge Peter Tomka, for his substantive 
and  comprehensive  report  on  the  Court’s  work  during 
the  period  under  consideration  (A/67/4).  I  would  also 
like to thank the entire staff of the Court and to express 
my  delegation’s  gratitude  for  the  chance  to  take  part 
yet again in this annual meeting to consider the Court’s 
annual report.
Senegal sees this meeting as an apt occasion to pay 
homage to the Court’s constructive efforts in promoting 
the  ideals  of  peace  and  justice  that  lie  at  the  very 
foundation of the United Nations. Promoting respect for 
the rule of law and the peaceful settlements of disputes 
is essential to creating a fairer and more peaceful world. 
It  is  for  that  reason  that,  by  promoting  international 
justice, developing international law and safeguarding 
international  peace  and  security,  the  International 
Court of Justice has particular responsibility and plays 
a  crucial  role  in  bringing  about  a  peaceful  and  just 
world. In that context, I would like to recall the words in 
Article 1 of the Charter, which state that the settlement 
of disputes “by peaceful means, and in conformity with 
the principles of justice and international law” is one of 
the fundamental goals of the United Nations. 
Senegal  attaches  great  importance  to  promoting 
justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  We  reiterate  the  trust 
we  place  in  the  Court,  as  clearly  ref lected  in  our 
recognition  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction,  in 
accordance  with  Article  36  of  its  Statute.  Moreover, 
we welcome the large number of cases submitted to the 
Court,  which  is  proof  of  the  increasing  belief  around 
the world in the primacy of the law and the importance 
States place on the peaceful settlement of disputes. The 
critically  important  role  of  the  Court  as  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations and the forum for 
the peaceful settlement of disputes is self-evident in the 
growing  trust  in  the  Court  by  States,  which  more  and 
more submit to the wisdom of the judges. 
In promoting legal solutions to differences and the 
rule  of  law  in  general  the  Court  both  contributes  to 
peaceful relations among States and fosters respect for 
the rule of law at the international level. Furthermore, 
the  Court’s 
judgments  on  various 
situations constitute a body of jurisprudence and legal 
reasoning that serves to enrich, codify and standardize 
international law. 
rulings  and 
For  the  Court  to  continue  to  fulfil  its  noble  task, 
however,  it  must  be  provided  with  adequate  means. 
The  Court  has  not  been  spared  the  shortages  endemic 
to  international  legal  mechanisms.  Another  major 
concern that should always receive our full attention is 
the small number of Member States to have recognized 
the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction.  Today,  only  66 
States,  accounting  for  34 per  cent  of  our  membership, 
have done so. That situation undermines the legitimacy 
of the Court and the global application of its rulings. In 
that  context,  we  commend  and  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  decision,  outlined  in  his  report  A/66/749,  of 
16  March  2012,  to  launch  an  international  campaign 
for  global  recognition  of  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction. 
To conclude, my delegation would like to underscore 
its  full  support  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  to  commend  its  laudable  work  in  promoting  the 
settlement  of  disputes  between  States  by  legal  and 
peaceful means.
Ms. Prince (United States of America): We would 
like  to  thank  President  Tomka  for  his  leadership  as 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  for 
his  report  on  its  activities  (A/67/4),  including  on  the 
very  important  cases  on  which  the  Court  rendered 
decisions during the past year. The International Court 
of  Justice  is  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  Preamble  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations underscores the determination of its drafters to 
establish conditions under which justice and respect for 
the obligations arising from treaties and other sources 
8 
12-57486
of international law can be maintained. That goal lies at 
the core of the Charter system, in particular of the role 
of the Court. 
The General Assembly itself, in its Declaration of 
the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National 
and  International  Levels,  adopted  on  24  September 
(resolution 67/1), underscored the positive contribution 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  including  in 
adjudicating disputes among States and the value of its 
work for the promotion of the rule of law. In addition, 
the  Security  Council,  in  its  presidential  statement  on 
the rule of law issued earlier this year (S/PRST/2012/1), 
similarly emphasized the key role of the Court and the 
value of its work. 
It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  we  can  see  the 
real  importance  of  the  renewed  willingness  of  States 
over  the  past  two  decades  to  turn  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  to  resolve  their  disputes  peacefully. 
As  President  Tomka  has  noted,  just  since  1990,  the 
Court has more than doubled its rate of decisions. The 
increasing caseload demonstrates the appreciation that 
States, and the international community more broadly, 
have  for  the  value  of  the  Court’s  work.  It  is  against 
that  backdrop  that  we  can  see  the  real  importance  of 
the  fact  that  under  President  Tomka’s  leadership  the 
Court  has  been  able  to  clear  its  backlog  of  cases  and 
of  the  effort  of  the  Court  to  ensure  that  States  will 
be  able  to  move  promptly  to  the  oral  stage  as  soon  as 
they  complete  their  written  exchanges.  Such  efforts 
contribute  immeasurably  to  the  confidence  States  can 
have in bringing cases to the Court and, in turn, to the 
ability  of  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate  in  helping  to 
ensure the peaceful resolution of disputes. 
For its part, the United States applauds such efforts. 
It takes this opportunity to express its pleasure with the 
successes  of  the  Court  in  fulfilling  its  key  role  in  the 
United Nations system, together with the other Charter 
organs,  in  the peaceful  resolution  of  disputes between 
States. The United States is pleased to add its voice to 
the many today who have emphasized the success of the 
Court’s work.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 71.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
of 
consideration 
conclude 
its 
Assembly 
to 
agenda item 71?
It was so decided.
A/67/PV.31
Agenda item 74 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/308)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/378)
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Marhic  (European  Union):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and 
its  member  States.  The  acceding  country  Croatia;  the 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Iceland  and  Serbia;  the 
countries  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and  potential  candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina; as well as Georgia, align themselves with 
this statement.
We  thank  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
for  its  eighth  annual  report  to  the  United  Nations  (see 
A/67/308),  which  covers  the  period  from  1  August 
2011  to  31  July  2012.  During  the  reporting  period, 
Cape Verde, Guatemala, Maldives, the Philippines and 
Vanuatu  deposited  their  instruments  of  ratification 
or  accession  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  bringing 
the  number  of  States 
parties  to  121.  We  welcome  the  new  members.  We 
also  welcome  the  announcement  made  by  Haiti  in  the 
context  of  the  recently  held  High-level  Meeting  of the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
and  International  Levels  concerning  its  intention  to 
ratify  the  Rome  Statute.  We  praise  the  decision  of  the 
Government of Côte d’Ivoire to commit to ratifying the 
same  treaty  following  the  reform  of  its  constitutional 
framework.
This year, we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the 
entry into force of the Rome Statute. Notwithstanding 
discussions  on  what  can  be  done  better,  the  Court  is 
an  unprecedented  success.  Earlier  this  year,  the  Court 
issued  its  first  verdict  and  sentence  in  the  case  The 
Prosecutor  v.  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo.  That  judgment 
is  a  milestone  for  international  criminal  justice  and 
constitutes  a  significant  achievement  for  the  Court. 
It  demonstrated  that  perpetrators  cannot  act  with 
impunity  and  it  raised  awareness  of  the  fact  that 
enlisting  and  conscripting  children  under  the  age  of 
15 as soldiers and using them to participate actively in 
combat was a war crime. The case also marked the first 
occasion for the Court to pronounce itself on principles 
and procedures to be applied with regard to reparations.
12-57486
9
A/67/PV.31
The recent report by the ICC describes the efforts 
that the Court has made in fulfilling its mission. It also 
describes  the  challenges  that  the  ICC  is  facing.  One 
main  challenge  continues  to  be  the  universality  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  The  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes must be made accountable for their actions. We 
therefore  need  to  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  make 
the  Rome  Statute  truly  universal,  as  well  as  to  extend 
the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the 
International Criminal Court. The worst crimes should 
not  go  unpunished,  no  matter  where  or  by  whom  they 
are committed.
Another 
remains 
fundamental  challenge 
the 
necessity to ensure cooperation with the Court, and in 
particular how to react to instances of non-cooperation 
by States that are in violation of their obligations with 
regard to the ICC. Without State cooperation, the ICC 
cannot  fulfil  its  mandate.  That  applies  to  all  States 
parties to the Rome Statute, as well as when the Security 
Council  refers  a  situation  to  the  Court  in  accordance 
with Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Of  the  23  individuals  against  whom  the  ICC 
currently  has  open  cases,  12  are  currently  absconding 
from  justice  and  some  have  done  so  for  several  years. 
That  stif les  the  ICC’s  capacity  to  deliver  justice. 
Non-cooperation  with  the  Court  in  respect  of  the 
execution  of  arrest  warrants  constitutes  a  violation 
of  international  obligations.  The  EU  and  its  member 
States underline the importance of consistent action to 
encourage the full cooperation of States with the ICC, 
including the prompt execution of arrest warrants.
The  primary  responsibility  for  bringing  offenders 
to  justice  lies  with  States  themselves,  in  conformity 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
Complementarity is a core principle in the Rome Statute; 
in order to make it operational, all States parties need 
to  prepare  and  adopt  effective  national  legislation  to 
implement the Rome Statute in their national systems.
their  cooperation  with,  and  assistance  to,  the  ICC. 
On  their  part,  the  European  Union  and  its  member 
States  undertake  to  pursue  their  efforts  in  the  area  of 
combating  impunity,  notably  by  giving  the  Court  full 
diplomatic support.
Our  common  goal  is  clear:  to  further  strengthen 
the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  We  will  continue  to 
encourage the widest possible participation in the Rome 
Statute.  We  are  dedicated  to  preserving  the  integrity 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  to  supporting  the  independence 
of  the  Court  and  to  ensuring  cooperation  with  it.  We 
are also committed to fully implementing the principle 
of complementarity, enshrined in the Rome Statute, by 
facilitating the effective and efficient interplay between 
national justice systems and the ICC in the fight against 
impunity.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago): I have the honour 
to  make  this  intervention  on  behalf  of  the  14  member 
States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
CARICOM  is  proud  of  the  strides  made  by  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) over the past decade 
as  the  only  permanent  international  criminal  tribunal 
established  to  prosecute  those  accused  of  committing 
grave crimes of concern to the international community.
As a region, CARICOM is proud of its role in the 
establishment of that important institution, which goes 
back to 1989. At that time, many did not share our vision 
for a permanent international court to assist in bringing 
to justice the most notorious of international criminals, 
as  well  as  to  serve  as  a  vehicle  to  assist  in  promoting 
global  peace  and  security.  We  are  humbled  that  many 
now share that vision.
The Court is on its way to achieving universality. In 
a relatively short time, 121 States have become parties 
to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 
That number includes 11 States parties from within the 
CARICOM region.
The EU and its member States are firm supporters 
of  the  ICC.  In  particular,  we  are  committed  to 
continuing  to  give  high  priority  to  the  fight  against 
impunity in the context of our development cooperation 
and  technical  assistance  to  partner  countries,  within 
the broader framework of strengthening the rule of law 
and advancing legal and institutional reforms, not least 
in post-conf lict peacebuilding processes.
Despite  its  detractors,  it  is  difficult  to  rebut  that 
the  ICC  has  lived  up  to  its  mandate  under  the  Rome 
Statute.  It  has  become  a  beacon  of  hope  for  all  those 
victims  of  heinous  crimes  who  are  seeking  justice. 
Those include innocent children who call for justice for 
acts committed by criminals who have shown no regard 
for  international  humanitarian  law  and  international 
human rights law.
We  welcome  the  actions  undertaken  by  States, 
international organizations and civil society to increase 
CARICOM  compliments  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President  of  the  ICC,  for  his  address  to  the  General 
10 
12-57486
Assembly  (see  A/67/PV.29),  in  keeping  with  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (A/58/874, 
annex). That Agreement has benefited the international 
community in its pursuit of justice for victims of serious 
crimes, which affront all humankind. We also welcome 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  this  important 
subject.
As  a  result  of  the  symbiotic  relationship  that 
exists  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC,  it  is 
CARICOM’s  expectation  that  long  before  the  ICC 
celebrates its twentieth anniversary, the United Nations 
would  honour  fully  its  obligations  under  Article  115, 
paragraph (b) of the Rome Statute to meet the expenses 
of  the  Court  associated  with  referrals  by  the  Security 
Council. In our view, those expenses should not subsist 
solely on the voluntary contributions of Member States.
Over the past year, the Court witnessed the election 
of a new Prosecutor in the person of Ms. Fatou Bensouda. 
Her election has demonstrated the importance that States 
parties attach to the achievement of gender equality in 
the  election  and  appointment  of  qualified  individuals 
to  key  positions  in  the  ICC.  We  have  full  confidence 
in  the  ability  of  Prosecutor  Bensouda  to  carry  out  her 
duties  with  the  same  degree  of  professionalism  and 
enthusiasm  as  her  illustrious  predecessor,  Mr.  Luis 
Moreno-Ocampo.
CARICOM  is  also  very  pleased  that  the  Court 
continues to uphold democratic traditions as far as the 
election  of  judges  is  concerned.  That  was  witnessed 
during  the  last  session  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties with the election of six judges, including Judge 
Anthony Carmona of Trinidad and Tobago. CARICOM 
is indeed honoured that to date it has contributed three 
of its nationals to the bench of the ICC.
During  the  last  year  as  well,  we  observed  with 
tremendous  appreciation  the  continued  work  of  the 
Court  to  bring  to  justice  several  accused  persons  in 
numerous  situations  referred  to  the  institution.  Most 
importantly, CARICOM welcomes the verdict rendered 
on 14 March 2012, in which the ICC found Mr. Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo  guilty  of  the  enlistment,  conscription 
and  use  of  children  under  the  age  of  15  to  participate 
actively in hostilities in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo between September 2002 and August 2003.
We  are  further  satisfied  that  at  each  stage  of  the 
proceedings,  the  ICC  adhered  to  all  of  the  tenets 
associated  with  the  conduct  of  an  impartial  trial.  In 
A/67/PV.31
addition  to  the  sentencing  of  Mr.  Lubanga  Dyilo, 
CARICOM  also  pays  tribute  to  the  Court  on  its 
landmark  decision  on  reparations  for  victims.  That 
particular decision is comprehensive in scope, as it also 
establishes principles relating to reparations.
It is our hope that in the near future the ICC will be 
in a position to commence the trials of other individuals 
who are accused of committing crimes under article 5 
of the Rome Statute. In order to achieve that objective, 
however,  the  relevant  entities  must  honour  their 
legally  binding  obligations  to  execute  the  outstanding 
arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Court  and  to  arrest  and 
surrender to the ICC those individuals who continue to 
evade justice. We wish to remind those that have failed 
to  honour  their  obligations  that  they  are  contributing 
to a culture of impunity that does not only prevent the 
dispensing of justice, but also serves to undermine the 
rule of law.
Cooperation  with  the  ICC  is  at  the  centre  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  It  does  not  fall  only  to  States  parties, 
but  also  to  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially  as  it  relates  to  referrals  by  the  Security 
Council. Those who argue that the ICC is an obstacle to 
achieving  lasting  peace  and  security  in  some  quarters 
must be reminded that, consistent with the doctrine of 
complementarity,  which  is  embedded  in  the  Statute, 
the jurisdiction of the ICC is invoked only when States 
are unable or unwilling to prosecute those individuals 
accused  of  perpetrating  the  most  severe  crimes  of 
concern  to  the  global  community.  In  other  words,  no 
individual or State should fear the ICC, because it is a 
court of last resort. CARICOM is satisfied that in its 10 
years of operation the ICC has rosbustly adhered to that 
cardinal principle.
The  Declaration  (resolution  67/1)  adopted  at  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels, 
convened  at  the  General  Assembly  in  September, 
recognized  the  significant  contribution  of  the  ICC  to 
the  promotion  of  international  justice  and  the  rule  of 
law.  CARICOM  is  hopeful  that  that  recognition  will 
serve as a catalyst for more States to ratify or accede to 
the Rome Statute, as well as a means for deepening the 
relationship between the United Nations and the ICC.
With  the  imminent  cessation  of  operations  of 
the  ad  hoc  criminal  tribunals,  the  global  community 
must  fully  embrace  the  ICC  as  the  only  permanent 
international  tribunal  dedicated  to  the  prosecution  of 
all individuals, without distinction as to rank or status, 
12-57486
11
A/67/PV.31
who commit international crimes that have the potential 
to undermine the political and economic order of States.
commitment  to  ensuring  accountability  for  the  worst 
crimes known to humankind.
CARICOM  remains  committed  to  the  progressive 
development  of  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations and the ICC as part of our overall support for 
the  maintenance  of  an  international  regime  based  on 
respect for the inalienable human rights of individuals, 
respect  for  the  territorial  integrity  of  States  and  the 
need  to  bring  to  justice  to  those  who  commit  serious 
breaches of the provisions of the Rome Statute which, 
in our view, represent customary international law.
Ms.  Burgstaller  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries — Denmark, 
Finland, Iceland, Norway and my own country, Sweden.
Let me start by thanking the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual  report  to  the  United 
Nations  (see  A/67/308).  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the  ICC,  for  his 
comprehensive  presentation  elaborating  on  key  issues 
in the report. It is evident from the report and President 
Song’s introduction that the Court’s activities continue 
to increase.
A highlight of the reporting period was the delivery 
of the ICC’s first judgment, in March, in the case The 
Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo. The verdict was 
a milestone for international criminal justice and raised 
awareness  about  the  plight  of  child  soldiers.  It  must 
serve  as  an  important  deterrent  against  such  crimes. 
The Court also took a guiding decision on the principles 
for  reparations.  The  rights  of  victims  to  reparations 
and  to  participate  in  the  Court’s  proceedings  are 
unique  features  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Victims’  issues 
are a key issue for the Nordic countries, especially for 
victims  of  the  scourge  of  gender-based  violence.  We 
encourage States to contribute to the ICC’s Trust Fund 
for Victims. Increased resources for the Fund enable us 
to  make  victims’  rights  real.  Furthermore,  we  should 
constructively  seek  justice  dividends  from  the  ICC’s 
work that could make a broader positive impact in war-
torn countries.
The  quest 
for  universal  adherence 
to,  and 
implementation  of,  the  Rome  Statute  continues.  We 
note  with  pleasure  that  during  the  reporting  period 
Cape  Verde,  Guatemala,  Maldives,  the  Philippines 
and  Vanuatu  became  States  parties,  bringing  the  total 
number to 121. The Nordic countries warmly welcome 
the  five  new  ICC  countries  and  salute  their  firm 
The 10-year anniversary of the ICC was celebrated 
worldwide, including in the Nordic countries, where its 
political and popular support remains strong. Although 
we  believe  that  the  Court  is  a  success  and  that  it  has 
lived  up  to,  if  not  exceeded,  the  high  expectations  we 
had 10 years ago, there are, alas, recurring incidents of 
States failing to cooperate with the ICC and increased 
pressure on the resources available to the Court.
It  is  a  cause  for  concern  that  the  number  of 
outstanding arrest warrants is growing each year. States 
parties have a legal obligation under the Rome Statute 
to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Court.  Therefore,  we  urge 
all States parties to strengthen their efforts to execute 
the orders of the Court and to abstain from inviting and 
receiving suspects who are subject to an arrest warrant 
by  the  ICC.  All  States  should  also  fully  comply  with 
their obligations under the Charter of the United Nations 
and with Security Council resolutions 1593 (2005) and 
1970  (2011),  which  urge  States  and  organizations  to 
fully  cooperate  with  the  ICC  in  the  Darfur  and  Libya 
situations.  We  call  in  particular  on    the  Sudanese  and 
Libyan authorities to comply with their respective legal 
obligations under those resolutions.
The  crisis  this  summer  when  four  ICC  staff 
members were detained during a mission conducted in 
Zintan highlights the importance of the legal protection 
of the Court’s staff during travel to situation countries 
or  elsewhere.  On  that  note,  we  stress  the  need  for  all 
States parties and non-States parties alike that have not 
yet done so to ratify and fully observe the Agreement 
on  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  International 
Criminal Court as a matter of priority.
The  mandate  of  the  ICC  is  to  hold  perpetrators 
for  crimes  under  the  Statute  to  account  by  exercising 
criminal  jurisdiction  in  fair  and  efficient  trials,  with 
victims’  interest  duly  taken  into  account.  Delivering 
justice is a valuable end in itself, but we must not forget 
the broader role of the ICC in fostering the principles of 
the rule of law and respect for universal human rights. 
Being independent does not mean that the Court stands 
alone.  It  should  be  seen  as  part  of  a  global  system  of 
governance  where  the  United  Nations,  States  and 
other  relevant  organizations  work  together  to  close 
the  impunity  gap  for  perpetrators  under  international 
criminal law.
12 
12-57486
In that regard, we would also like to highlight the 
need for cooperation with the Office of the Prosecutor 
with regard to preliminary examinations.
According to the Rome Statute, the mandate of the 
ICC is subject to the principle of complementarity. It is 
States that have the primary responsibility to investigate 
and prosecute ICC crimes. The ICC is thus a Court of 
last  resort.  We  must,  however,  acknowledge  that  for 
many  States  there  is  a  lack  of  resources  and  capacity 
to exercise genuine criminal law proceedings for such 
complex  and  large-scale  crimes  as  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes. The Nordic countries 
are prepared to assist those States parties that are willing 
to  enhance  their  national  legal  capacities  in  this field. 
One concrete example of complementarity engagement 
is  Justice  Rapid  Response,  which  is  a  supporting 
mechanism for providing States and organizations with 
criminal  justice  professionals  trained  for  international 
investigations who can be rapidly deployed, for instance 
to  commissions  of  inquiry  established  by  the  Human 
Rights Council.
Let  me  conclude  by  pledging  that  the  Nordic 
countries  will  remain  principal  supporters  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  are  committed 
to  continue  working  for  the  Court’s  effectiveness, 
professionalism,  independence  and  integrity.  Those 
are  prerequisites  for  the  ICC’s  ability  to  achieve 
accountability and meaningful justice for victims.
Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Hussein  (Jordan): 
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  my 
colleagues  from  Liechtenstein,  Ambassador  Christian 
Wenaweser, and Costa Rica, His Excellency Mr. Bruno 
Stagno Ugarte, as well as on my own behalf — the three 
of us being former Presidents of the Assembly of States 
Parties to the Rome Statute.
This  year’s  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  (see  A/67/308),  presented  by  President 
Sang-Hyun  Song  some  10  years  after  the  entry  into 
force of the Rome Statute, gives us a unique opportunity 
to  take  stock  of  where  we  stand  and,  in  particular, 
to  identify  the  challenges  we  face,  in  particular  in 
connection  with  the  cooperation  between  the  Court 
and  the  United  Nations.  Key  among  those  challenges 
is  certainly  making  the  complementary  nature  of  the 
ICC understood and acted upon accordingly. It is often 
emphasized that the Court is an institution of last resort 
and that national jurisdictions have primacy in dealing 
with the crimes over which the Court has jurisdiction. 
A/67/PV.31
The open debate in the Security Council two weeks ago 
(see  S/PV.6849)  provides  ample  evidence  of  that.  But 
it  is  nevertheless  often  not  understood  that  the  Rome 
Statute does in fact create not just another international 
tribunal with a seat in The Hague, but rather a system of 
accountability of potentially global reach. That system, 
which builds on that most basic international consensus 
that  we  ensure  accountability  for  the  most  serious 
crimes  under  international  law,  will  work  effectively 
only  if  all  stakeholders  play  their  part.  That  leads,  in 
particular, the following several points.
First,  all  States,  whether  parties  to  the  Statute 
or  not,  are  called  upon  to  help  strengthen  national 
judiciaries  in  order  to  enable  them  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  in  accordance  with  international  standards. 
Very  important  parts  of  the  United  Nations  system 
and  relevant  United  Nations  programmes  are  already 
active  in  that  area,  although,  ideally,  there  should  be 
just one United Nations department that provides legal 
and  judicial  advice  and  capacity  to  any  Member  State 
seeking it, whether a State party or not.
Secondly, complementarity also entails cooperation 
with  the  ICC,  in  particular  where  the  Court  has 
jurisdiction and has opened an investigation. A special 
situation  in  that  respect  can  arise  when  the  State  in 
question is required to cooperate with the Court under 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
In  those  situations  where  the  Security  Council  has 
referred a situation to the Court, the Council must also 
play its role in ensuring cooperation and an appropriate 
complementarity  dialogue  between  the  Court  and  the 
State concerned.
Thirdly,  States  parties  will  have 
to  engage 
in  a  discussion  on  some  of  the  difficult  questions 
that  have  arisen  in  the  context  of  such  situations 
involving  complementarity  to  show  ownership  of  the 
accountability system we have created together. It is no 
longer enough to invoke complementarity; we also have 
to do our part to make it work in practice. There is a lot 
of  room  for  us  to  be  more  creative  than  we  have  been 
in the past.
Embracing  and  understanding  complementarity 
is  an  inevitable  step  in  our  progress  towards  a  truly 
universal  accountability  system.  But  it  is  also  the  key 
to  understanding  that  the  success  and  impact  of  the 
Court cannot be measured against the number of trials 
held and convictions handed down, as some of us still 
do. Nevertheless, trials will of course always be a core 
function of the Court. The conclusion of the trial against 
12-57486
13
A/67/PV.31
Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo  should  be  a  moment  for  us  to 
try  to  enhance  the  efficiency  of  judicial  proceedings. 
The  lessons  learned  from  the  trial,  combined  with 
those  we  can  draw  from  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  whose 
work  is  closing  down,  offers  enormous  potential  in 
that respect. Clearly, expediting judicial proceedings is 
in  the  interest  of  due  process  and  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Court  alike.  We  hope  that  we  will  see  a  dialogue 
between  States  and  Court  officials  on  the  basis  of  the 
experience  accumulated  over  the  past  two  decades 
and,  as  a  result,  agreement  on  a  range  of  measures  to 
improve the proceedings before the Court.
Even the most efficient proceedings do not help if 
an individual indicted by the Court is not arrested. That 
situation  still  prevails  with  respect  to  12  outstanding 
arrest warrants, including the first ones ever issued by 
the  Court.  Cooperation  by  States  is  key  with  respect 
to every aspect of the work of the Court, but nowhere 
more  important  than  in  the  area  of  arrests.  The  past 
years  have  seen  very  important  advances  towards  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute,  as  its  membership 
has reached critical mass and is approaching two-thirds 
of  the  membership  of  the  Assembly.  Nevertheless,  we 
need  to  make  sure  that  we  deepen  the  support  for  the 
Court,  in  addition  to  broadening  it.  Most  important, 
we  must  pursue  accountability  in  a  consistent  and 
persistent manner. The work before the Assembly gives 
ample opportunity for doing so, almost on a daily basis. 
Too often, we squander those opportunities.
More  so  than  other  areas,  international  criminal 
justice tends to be plagued by controversial discussions 
about budgetary issues. It is not easy to explain why that 
is, in particular because international criminal justice is 
not expensive. For some $150 million per year, we have 
established  a  functioning,  professional,  independent 
Court  that  constitutes  probably  the  most  significant 
advance  in  the  global  architecture  of  international 
organizations  in  the  past  few  years.  But  certainly,  we 
must address the criticism, by making the Court more 
efficient  and  more  accountable  for  administrative 
matters.  We  understand  that  those  discussions  are  on 
a good path.
There is one aspect, though, that only the Assembly 
can  address:  the  financing  of  investigations  mandated 
by  the  Security  Council.  In  referring  situations  to  the 
Court,  the  Council  de  facto  seizes  the  opportunity 
offered  by  the  Rome  Statute  to  use  the  Court  as  a 
substitute for an ad hoc tribunal — which the Council 
also  has  the  mandate  to  establish,  of  course,  but  at 
significantly  higher  costs.  In  practice,  the  Council 
has  made  referrals  to  the  ICC  without  putting  the 
financial burden on the United Nations membership, as 
it  rightfully  should  have,  both  in  accordance  with  the 
Rome Statute and the Relationship Agreement between 
the  Court  and  the  United  Nations.  We  hope  that  that 
practice will be changed in the near future so that the 
relationship between the two organizations becomes a 
real partnership. The States parties should not have to 
continue bearing the costs of the decisions arising from 
Security Council decisions.
Let  me  conclude  with  some  brief  remarks  on 
the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute  that  States 
parties  adopted  by  consensus  at  the  Kampala  Review 
Conference.  The  amendments  on 
the  crime  of 
aggression  in  particular  are  of  direct  and  immediate 
relevance to the Assembly. The prohibition of the illegal 
use of force, which is at the core of the Charter of the 
United Nations, has finally been given its complement 
in  international  criminal  justice.  As  early  as  2017,  the 
Court  can  exercise  its  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression — the worst forms of the illegal use of force, 
carried out by persons in leadership positions — once 
30  States  have  ratified  the  Kampala  amendments 
and  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  has  decided  to 
activate the regime. The Kampala consensus is firmly 
based  on,  and  would  not  have  been  possible  without, 
resolution 3314 (XXIX), on the topic of aggression. We 
hope that members of the Assembly will therefore look 
favourably  at  the  possibility  of  ratifying  the  Kampala 
amendments  and  to  help  the  Court  achieve  what  was 
started in the Hall almost 40 years ago with the adoption 
of resolution 3314 (XXIX).
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand 
(CANZ).  We  reiterate  our  strong  support  for  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) and the critical role 
it plays in ensuring accountability for the most serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community. 
States  of  course  have  the  primary  responsibility  to 
prosecute  such  crimes  committed  on  their  territory  or 
by  their  nationals.  However,  as  a  Court  of  last  resort, 
the  ICC  has  jurisdiction  to  act  where  domestic  courts 
are  unwilling  or  unable  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
such crimes.
This is the tenth anniversary of the entry into force 
of the Rome Statute. CANZ commends all bodies of the 
Court on their contribution to the establishment of the 
Court  as  a  significant  part  of  the  international  justice 
14 
12-57486
architecture.  The  international  community  can  take 
great pride in the progress achieved since the adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute.  Today,  the  Court  is  a  fully 
functioning institution. Those committed to providing 
it  with  political  and  diplomatic  support  have  grown 
from the 60 States parties required to bring the Rome 
Statute into force, to — as Trinidad and Tobago, Sweden 
and  others  have  reminded  us  —  a  community  of  121 
States. CANZ welcomes the progress towards universal 
accession  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  strengthened 
prospect  of  justice  for  victims  that  such  universal 
accession would represent. We encourage States not yet 
party to the Statute to join us in taking a strong stand 
against impunity by acceding to the Statute.
In  its  tenth  year,  the  delivery  of  the  Court’s  first 
judgment,  followed  by  decisions  on  sentencing  and 
reparations,  were  milestones  for  the  Court,  and  we 
congratulate  all  those  involved.  We  welcome  the 
fact  that  the  trial  of  the  Court’s  second  case  has  also 
been  completed.  We  await  the  outcome  of  the  Trial 
Chamber’s deliberations. We also welcome the fact that 
two further cases are in the trial phase and the issuance 
of two new arrest warrants this year.
CANZ  also  takes  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the 
ICC’s  new  Prosecutor,  Ms.  Fatou  Bensouda.  We  have 
every  confidence  that  she  will  provide  outstanding 
leadership as the Office of the Prosecutor enters the next 
phase of the Court’s development. While applauding the 
Court’s substantial achievements over the past decade, 
CANZ recognizes that it faces ongoing challenges. The 
detention  of  four  staff  members  in  June  highlighted 
the risks that the Court staff face in carrying out their 
functions.  As  the  2012  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (see  A/67/308)  emphasizes,  the  Court 
must rely heavily on the cooperation of the international 
community  in  order  to  carry  out  those  functions 
effectively. 
the  surrender  of  accused  persons, 
The  cooperation  of  States  is  particularly  required 
in  relation  to  the  enforcement  of  international  arrest 
warrants, 
the 
allocation  of  adequate  resources  and  the  protection  of 
victims  and  witnesses.  CANZ  acknowledges  that  the 
non-execution  of  the  Court’s  requests  may  impede  its 
ability to carry out its mandate. 
We  therefore  call  on  all  States  to  cooperate  fully 
with  the  Court  and  its  processes.  In  particular,  we 
call  on  both  States  parties  and  non-States  parties  that 
are  subject  to  obligations  under  Security  Council 
resolutions  to  act  on  the  outstanding  arrest  warrants 
A/67/PV.31
issued by the ICC. We encourage States parties to arrest 
indicted  persons  if,  for  whatever  reason,  such  persons 
arrive on their territory.
The  effectiveness  of  the  ICC  is  also  dependent  on 
the  support  of  the  Security  Council.  CANZ  believes 
that  when  the  Council  makes  a  referral  to  the  ICC,  it 
should do so with a clear commitment to follow through 
and to ensure that the Court receives all the necessary 
support. We encourage the Council to consider how it 
could better support the work of the Court.
It  is  clear  that  the  ICC  has  a  hugely  valuable  role 
to play on behalf of the international community in its 
efforts  to  deter  the  most  serious  crimes  and  to  ensure 
accountability  for  such  crimes.  Canada,  Australia  and 
New  Zealand  remain  deeply  committed  to  providing 
the Court with unwavering support. We look forward to 
working with all States parties to advance our common 
cause  of  ensuring  that  the  perpetrators  of  the  most 
serious  crimes  of  international  concern  are  truly  held 
to account.
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Cuba  takes  note  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  contained  in  the  note 
by  the  Secretary-General  (A/67/308)  and  wishes  to 
reiterate  its  commitment  to  fighting  impunity  for 
crimes that affect the international community. 
The  events  of  recent  years  are  irrefutable  proof 
of  the  lack  of  independence  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  largely  as  a  result  of  the  provisions 
of  article  16  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  broad  and 
unfair  powers  granted  to  the  Security  Council  with 
regard to the Court’s work. Besides distorting the basis 
of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  that  violates  the  principle 
of  the  independence  of  jurisdictional  bodies  and  of 
transparency and impartiality in the administration of 
justice. 
The referrals to the Court by the Security Council, 
in  particular  those  of  heads  of  State  in  office,  affirm 
the  negative  trend  that  our  country  has  condemned 
on  various  occasions.  Such  referrals  by  the  Security 
Council  are  a  constant  violation  of  international  law 
and are an attack on developing countries in the name 
of  fighting  impunity.  For  that  reason,  Cuba  reiterates 
its  position  in  favour  of  establishing  an  impartial, 
non-selective, effective and fair international criminal 
jurisdiction that complements national justice systems 
and  that  is  truly  independent,  and  therefore  free  from 
12-57486
15
A/67/PV.31
subordination  to  political  interests  that  may  distort  its 
essence.
Issues  related  to  such  matters  were  not  settled  by 
the  outcomes  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  held  in  Kampala  from  31  May  to  11  June 
2010. As a body of international criminal jurisdiction, 
the  Court  remains  subject  to  the  Security  Council’s 
illegal,  anti-democratic  and  outrageous  decisions, 
which are contrary to international law. As a result of 
the  behaviour  of  some  of  its  permanent  members,  the 
Council continues to provide complete impunity to the 
real perpetrators of crimes and massacres of concern to 
the international community. 
It  is  regrettable  that  Security  Council  resolutions 
provide that crimes committed by the forces of Powers 
that  are  Council  members  and  that  are  not  party  to 
the  Rome  Statute  remain  beyond  investigation.  Such 
references are offensive to the international community. 
They  demonstrate  the  political  double  standards  with 
which that organ operates and ignore the principles by 
which the International Criminal Court should function.
The delegation of Cuba reiterates that the activities 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  cannot  disregard 
international treaties and the principles of international 
law.  The  Court  must  respect  the  principle  of  law 
regarding the consent of a State to be bound by a treaty, 
enshrined in article 11 of the Vienna Convention on the 
Law of Treaties, of 23 May 1969.
Cuba  wishes  to  reiterate  its  serious  concern  about 
the precedent being established by the Court’s decisions 
to  initiate  criminal  trials  against  nationals  of  States 
that  are  not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  that  have 
not  even  accepted  its  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with 
article  12  of  the  Convention.  The  jurisdiction  of  the 
International Criminal Court must remain independent 
of  the  political  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  and  must 
always  operate  in  a  complementary  way  to  national 
criminal jurisdictions. 
The people of Cuba have suffered the most diverse 
forms  of  aggression  for  50  years.  The  harassment  and 
aggressiveness of the Government of the United States 
have  injured  our  killed  thousands  of  our  country’s 
people.  Hundreds  of  families  have  lost  their  children, 
parents and siblings, and untold economic and financial 
assets.
However, the definition of the crime of aggression 
adopted at the Kampala Conference by no means takes 
into  account  every  aspect  that  I  have  mentioned.  The 
crime of aggression should be broadly defined in such 
a  way  that  it  covers  all  forms  of  aggression  that  are 
manifested  in  relations  between  States,  which  in  no 
way  are  limited  to  the  use  of  armed  force  but  equally 
affect  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  or  political 
independence of States. 
Our  country  reaffirms  its  readiness  to  fight 
international 
impunity.  We  remain  committed 
criminal  justice,  to  adhering  to  the  principles  of 
transparency,  independence  and  impartiality,  and  to 
fully implementing and respecting international law.
to 
Mr.  Sul  Kyung-hoon  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset, my delegation would like to express its sincere 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  The  Honourable  Judge  Sang-
Hyun  Song,  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the 
activities  of  the  Court  in  the  past  year  (see  A/67/308). 
In particular, my delegation highly commends the fact 
that  the  joint  effort  of  the  Presidency,  the  Chambers, 
the Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry has firmly 
laid  solid  foundations  for  the  effective  functioning  of 
the Court. 
We  warmly  welcome  the  notable  achievements  of 
the  Court  in  its  involvement  with  several  situations 
in  countries  in  Africa.  Among  other  things,  we  take 
particular note of the fact that the Court has succeeded 
in  reaching  a  historic  decision  in  the  case  of  The 
Prosecutor  v.  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo  this  year.  It 
was  the  first  judgment  that  included  a  final  order  and 
sentence,  as  well  as  reparations  for  the  victims.  We 
believe  that  the  case  effectively  shows  that  the  ICC  is 
now  firmly  established  to  ensure  justice  for  heinous 
crimes.
We may recall that, during our debate over the draft 
of the Rome Statute, some of us took a rather skeptical 
stance  towards  the  establishment  of  a  permanent 
court  to  pursue  international  criminal  justice.  Since 
its  entry  into  force,  in  2002,  however,  the  number  of 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  has  steadily  grown 
to 121. During the past year, five new members joined 
as States parties. We hope that the momentum towards 
universality will continue in the forthcoming years.
It is also worthwhile to note that the ICC has provided 
substantial  technical  assistance  to  other  tribunals, 
including  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone  and  the 
Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon.  Such  contributions  not 
only  help  to  ensure  the  effective  functioning  of  those 
16 
12-57486
tribunals, but also indicate the ICC’s improved capacity 
to become a hub for the international justice system.
The  International  Criminal  Court  was  established 
to  end  impunity  against  the  gravest  crimes,  such  as 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and 
the  crime  of  aggression.  The  effective  functioning 
of  the  Court  will  greatly  contribute  to  preventing 
those  heinous  crimes,  thus  laying  the  foundation  for 
sustainable peace.
Despite the Court’s remarkable achievements and its 
constructive role in strengthening the tribunal system, 
there is still a lot more to do to fulfil its mandate, which 
will  not  be  achieved  by  the  efforts  of  the  ICC  alone. 
In that context, my delegation welcomes the increasing 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  as  described  in 
part IV of the ICC report. We hope that that cooperative 
relationship will be further strengthened.
Without  a  doubt,  it  will  be  critical  for  the  Court 
to garner firm support and cooperation from all States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Without  their  full 
cooperation,  the  ICC  would  be  unable,  inter  alia,  to 
execute outstanding arrest warrants for perpetrators or 
conduct thorough investigations.
At the same time, the Court’s effective functioning 
will be in the interest of the entire membership of the 
United  Nations,  as  it  plays  an  instrumental  role  in 
upholding  the  rule  of  law,  which  is  one  of  the  main 
principles  underpinning  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
respect,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  full 
support for the effective and efficient operation of the 
Court.
Mr. Stuerchler Gonzenbach (Switzerland) (spoke 
in  French):  My  delegation  would  first  like  to  thank 
President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  introducing  the  eighth 
annual  report  (see  A/67/308)  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  We  also  wish  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  all  of  the  staff  members  of  the  Court 
for their work and daily efforts in fulfilling their tasks, 
which  continue  to  grow  and  recently  resulted  in  the 
Court’s first judgment.
Not only must the Court work tirelessly to advance 
the vision of the Rome Statute, but as Members of the 
United Nations we must do the same. As my delegation 
argued  during  the  Security  Council’s  open  debate  on 
peace  and  security  (S/PV.6849  (Resumption  1))  of 
17  October,  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
United  Nations  have  mutually  reinforcing,  rather  than 
conf licting, mandates. 
A/67/PV.31
Recently,  the  Government  of  Mali  expressed  its 
hope that the Security Council would request a possible 
international military force to support efforts to bring 
to  justice  perpetrators  of  serious  crimes,  especially 
those  likely  to  be  prosecuted  before  the  ICC.  That 
will  require  us  to  do  everything  possible  in  order  to 
maximize  synergies  between  the  two  institutions. 
Instead  of  understanding  peace  and  justice  as  two 
separate  things,  we  must  see  them  as  two  sides  of  the 
same coin.
Peace  should  not,  and  cannot,  be  achieved  at  the 
expense  of  justice.  Switzerland  continues  to  believe 
that  the  situation  in  the  Syrian  Arabic  Republic 
should  be  referred  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Crimes 
committed  in  Syria,  irrespective  of  by  whom,  must 
not  go  unpunished.  We  note  that  a  growing  number 
of  Member  States  support  our  initiative  to  address  a 
letter  to  the  Security  Council  on  Syria. We  encourage 
Member States that have not yet done so to join in our 
effort.
A referral to the Court is necessary not only because 
of  the  grave  crimes  committed  in  Syria;  it  would  also 
clearly  demonstrate  the  Council’s  commitment  to 
the  fight  against  impunity.  In  order  to  enhance  the 
deterrent  effect  of  international  criminal  justice,  the 
Council  should  adopt  a  consistent  referral  policy  and 
determinedly follow up on referrals. A decision by the 
Security Council to refer a situation to the Court should 
not signal the end of the Council’s commitment to the 
fight against impunity but, rather, the beginning. 
I  have  two  additional  points  to  make.  First,  the 
United  Nations  should  consider  funding  for  the  Court 
for  referrals,  as  provided  for  in  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC. 
Secondly, it should be noted that the Rome Statute does 
not provide for exceptional situations, such as referrals 
involving nationals from non-State parties.
With respect to the broader relationship between the 
United Nations and the Court, my delegation welcomes 
the  report  (A/67/378/Add.1)  of  the  Secretary-General 
on  the  implementation  of  article  3  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement,  in  which  he  expresses  his  determination 
to  limit  to  absolutely  essential  contacts  the  contact 
of  United  Nations  officials  with  persons  who  are  the 
subject  of  arrest  warrants.  That  policy  is  important  in 
strengthening the credibility of both the United Nations 
and the Court in the fight against impunity.
12-57486
17
A/67/PV.31
The Court should be able to count on our full support 
here at the United Nations as well as in our countries. 
Cooperation by States is fundamental. In that respect, 
we  regret  that  the  high  number  of  outstanding  arrest 
warrants  overshadows  the  many  positive  examples  of 
cooperation. We urge all States to increase their efforts 
to bring suspects to justice. The International  Criminal 
Court  must  also  be  able  to  count  on  effective  national 
implementation  legislation  in  each  State  party.  The 
complementarity provided for in the Rome Statute will 
be  effective  only  if  States  equip  themselves  with  the 
capacity  to  prosecute  before  their  national  authorities 
perpetrators of crimes covered by the ICC.
Switzerland recently ratified the Agreement on the 
Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal 
Court and is currently preparing to ratify the Kampala 
amendments to the Rome Statute. 
We 
commend 
the  prompt 
ratifications  of 
Liechtenstein,  San  Marino  and  Samoa.  We  hope  that 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression 
will  be  activated  as  early  as  2017.  The  consensus 
reached  in  Kampala  was  a  historic  one.  We  must  now 
work  to  give  it  effect  as  soon  as  possible.  Switzerland 
also  congratulates  Grenada,  Tunisia,  the  Philippines,  
Maldives,  Cape  Verde,  Vanuatu  and  Guatemala  on 
their  ratifications  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  the  past  two 
years,  thereby  bringing  the  number  of  States  parties 
to  121  —  almost  two  thirds  of  the  United  Nations 
membership.
With  a  view  to  the  upcoming  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to the Rome Statute, my delegation would like 
to  emphasize  that  our  commitment  to  the  Court  and 
its  mission  is  not  only  purely  political;  it  can  also  be 
gauged by our financial support.
Finally,  at  the  recent  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(A/67/PV.3),  Heads  of  State  and  Government  from  all 
regions of the world declared by consensus: 
the  role  of 
the  International 
“We  recognize 
Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral  system  that  aims 
to  end  impunity  and  establish  the  rule  of  law.” 
(resolution 67/1, para. 23) 
We  all  represent  the  multilateral  system  on  which 
the  Court  depends.  We  all  benefit  from  a  strong  and 
effective Court. Therefore, we should all do our utmost 
to support this valuable institution.
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania):  I  would  like  to 
begin  by  thanking  the  International  Criminal  Court 
for  all  its  hard  work,  as  comprehensively  ref lected  in 
its  eighth  annual  report  (A/67/308),  submitted  to  the 
General  Assembly  in  accordance  with  article  6  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court (ICC).
The  report  reveals  the  significant  progress  that 
has  marked  this  tenth  anniversary  year  of  activity  of 
the  ICC,  which  is  illustrated,  among  other  important 
developments, by the first verdict and sentence delivered 
by the Court, in the case of The Prosecutor v. Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo,  and  by  the  completion  of  the  trial  in 
a  second  case,  The  Prosecutor  v.  Germain  Katanga 
and  Mathieu  Ngudjolo  Chui.  This  also  proves  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  has  become  not  only  a 
community  of  States  or  ideals,  but  a  fully  functional 
institution.
the 
ICC’s 
despite 
However, 
indisputable 
achievements,  this  anniversary  should  also  serve  as 
an  opportunity  for  ongoing  ref lection  on  finding  the 
best  ways  to  face  and  overcome  the  challenges  ahead 
and  efficiently  combat  impunity  related  to  the  most 
serious crimes under international law. We believe that 
the  assessment  should  take  into  account,  among  other 
aspects,  best  practices  and  lessons  learned  from  the 
experiences related to the activities of the international 
ad hoc tribunals and special courts. In that respect, we 
look forward to the debates of the forthcoming Assembly 
of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC, in The 
Hague, which represents an excellent opportunity for a 
fruitful exchange of views on the topic.
We  would  like  to  welcome  the  States  —  Cape 
Verde,  Guatemala,  Maldives,  the  Philippines  and 
Vanuatu — that have become party to the Rome Statute 
during the reporting year. The number of States parties 
to  this  essential  treaty  has  grown  significantly  to  121. 
However, despite the growing membership of the Rome 
Statue, we firmly believe that the quest for universality 
should  continue,  and  in  that  respect  we  encourage  all 
States to become party to the Rome Statute. 
It  is  our  belief  that  strengthening  the  ICC  by 
achieving universality is the most powerful preventive 
approach  to  compliance  with  the  most  important 
norms of international law, and will reduce the risk of 
impunity.  Given  its  capacity  as  former  Vice-President 
of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
and  current  facilitator  on  the  universality  and  full 
implementation  of  the  Statute,  Romania  remains  fully 
18 
12-57486
committed  to  promoting  the  universality  of  the  ICC 
among States. We can be counted on.
The report of the Court also illustrates the essential 
part  that  States  continue  to  play  in  so  many  respects 
and  their  major  role  in  helping  the  Court  to  fulfil  its 
mandate.  Full  and  rapid  cooperation  with  the  Court, 
including  by  execution  of  arrest  warrants,  remains 
crucial  for  the  effectiveness  of  the  ICC  Statute.  The 
adoption  of  adequate  national  legislation  is  critical 
to  an  effective  fight  against  impunity.  The  consistent 
financial  commitment  of  the  States  is  also  needed  in 
order to ensure the Court’s optimal functioning, while 
consistent public and diplomatic support for its activity 
strengthens its position.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  Romania’s  full 
support  to  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  by 
endorsing  the  conclusion  of  the  report  on  the  ICC’s 
need  for  the  strong,  consistent  and  ongoing  support 
of  States  and  the  international  community  in  order  to 
fulfil its mandate.
Ms.  Millicay  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina  acknowledges  and  thanks  the  President  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Justice  Sang-
Hyun  Song,  for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Court  to 
the General Assembly (A/67/308).
The  Rome  Statute  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  are  among  the  most  notable  achievements  of 
multilateral  diplomacy,  and  their  contribution  to  the 
fight  against  impunity  for  crimes  against  humanity, 
genocide and war crimes is evident. A little more than 
a  decade  after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
Court  is  a  fully  functioning  permanent  international 
criminal tribunal.
This year finds the Rome Statute and the ICC much 
stronger.  To  date,  121  States  have  become  party  to 
the  Statute.  In  that  respect,  I  would  like  to  welcome 
Guatemala.  Another  positive  development 
the 
ratification of the amendments to the Rome Statute by 
Liechtenstein and Samoa.
is 
Regarding  the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
we note that the modification of article 8 added certain 
crimes  to  the  war  crimes  committed  in  the  context 
of  armed  conf licts  of  a  non-international  character. 
Such  amendments  entail  a  step  forward  in  the  fight 
against  impunity  regarding  violations  of  international 
humanitarian law. 
A/67/PV.31
However,  it  was  the  amendment  on  the  crime  of 
aggression  that  determined  the  historic  significance 
of  the  2010  Kampala  Review  Conference.  With  the 
definition of the crime of and the conditions necessary 
for  the  Court  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction,  we  fulfilled 
the  mandate  of  the  Rome  Statute  with  regard  to  the 
crime of aggression. The Court will be able to exercise 
its  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  one  year 
after  the  ratification  or  acceptance  of  the  amendment 
by  30  States  parties.  Once  they  have  done  so,  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  will  be  activated  starting  in  2017, 
in accordance with the amendment.
to  ratifying 
States  parties  must  commit 
the 
amendments  adopted  in  Kampala  as  soon  as  possible. 
Argentina is actively working on that process internally, 
with  a  view  to  ratifying  the  amendments  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  are  pleased  that  other  States  parties  are 
making similar efforts.
This year marks the tenth anniversary of the entry 
into force of the Statute, and hence the establishment of 
the International Criminal Court. The Court is today a 
mature permanent tribunal and the centre of the criminal 
justice  system  of  the  international  community.  On  the 
occasion of the tenth anniversary, we should like to pay 
tribute to the negotiators of the Rome Statute from all 
countries for having made the major contribution to the 
rule of law that is the International Criminal Court; to 
the  first  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Luis  Moreno-Ocampo;  and 
to  the  current  and  past  judges  for  their  courage  and 
commitment  to  the  fight  against  impunity.  On  this 
tenth  anniversary,  the  international  community  must 
recognize the value of the Court and take stock of the 
ways  in  which  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
can improve their participation.
Since  the  Rome  Statute  entered  into  force,  the 
need  for  accountability  for  crimes  under  the  Statute’s 
jurisdiction  has  been 
tangible 
manner  into  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Security  Council  has  also  incorporated  the  ICC  in 
its  considerations  on  concrete  situations.  All  this  has 
strengthened  the  fight  against  impunity.  At  the  same 
time, some challenges remain. 
incorporated 
in  a 
judicial 
Mutual  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Court  is  crucial,  with  full  respect  for  the 
Court’s 
independence.  The  question  of 
non-essential  contacts  with  persons  for  whom  the 
Court has issued arrest warrants should be part of the 
cooperation between the Court and the United Nations 
provided  for  in  the  Relationship  Agreement.  But  it  is 
12-57486
19
A/67/PV.31
cooperation  on  the  part  of  States  that  is  fundamental 
to the Court’s ability to fully comply with its mandate. 
A  permanent  international  justice  system  of  necessity 
requires cooperation on the part of all States Members 
of the United Nations. Every Member State, whether it 
is party to the Rome Statute or not, must cooperate with 
the  Court,  and  that  obligation  is  particularly  relevant 
with regard to arrest warrants.
Regarding referrals made by the Security Council, 
Argentina  believes  that  the  Council  cannot  merely 
take note of the reports of the Prosecutor or the Court 
without following up on compliance with the obligation 
to  cooperate  with  the  Court  or  on  situations  on  the 
ground, such as the detention of ICC staff some months 
ago. Argentina is convinced that establishing some kind 
of  follow-up  mechanism  for  situations  referred  to  the 
Court  would  substantially  contribute  to  the  Council’s 
responsible collaboration with it.
Other issues of concern to my delegation are, first, 
the clause that, as in the two referrals that have already 
been made, seeks to exempt nationals of States that are 
not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  from  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  Court  for  acts  or  omissions  related  to  operations 
established or authorized by the Security Council. This 
could  allow  the  action  of  a  political  entity  to  weaken 
the Court’s ability to render independent and impartial 
justice  by  seeking  to  create  an  exception  not  provided 
for in the Rome Statute. This could affect the credibility 
of the Security Council and of the Court itself.
The other issue that concerns us, and that was also 
raised by the two referrals, could have a serious effect 
on the Court. By establishing that the expenses derived 
from  referrals  will  be  defrayed  not  by  the  United 
Nations  but  by  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
the Council is contravening article 115 (b) of the Rome 
Statute  and  article  13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement. 
With  an  increasing  number  of  cases,  pressure  on  the 
resources available to the Court has grown; in practical 
terms, failure to address the financing of referrals could 
threaten the viability of the Court over the long term.
Argentina  wishes  to  emphasize  that  the  fight 
against impunity is a goal shared by the States parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  United  Nations.  But  that 
objective  must  be  accompanied  by  a  commitment  to 
providing the Court with the means necessary to fulfil 
its  mandate.  Such  commitment  is  not  foreign  to  the 
United  Nations,  as  it  has  been  addressed  with  regard 
to  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  established  by  the  Security 
Council.  We  must  now  address  it  with  regard  to  the 
International  Criminal  Court. 
regarding 
the  financial  resources  to  be  provided  by  the  United 
Nations under article 115 of the Statute would only have 
a negative effect on the current cases before the Court 
and on action taken proprio motu by the Prosecutor.
Inaction 
This  year,  which  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the International Criminal Court, Argentina would like 
to  reiterate  that  the  Court  represents  an  outstanding 
contribution  to  the  fight  against  impunity.  I  would 
recall,  as  the  preamble  of  the  Kampala  Declaration 
states,
“the noble mission and the role of the International 
Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral  system  that  aims 
to end impunity, establish the rule of law, promote 
and encourage respect for human rights and achieve 
sustainable peace, in accordance with international 
law and the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations”.
Once again, I reiterate Argentina’s ﬁ rm commitment 
to the International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  I  would  first  like  to  thank 
President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  his  comprehensive  and 
in-depth  report  (A/67/308)  on  the  invaluable  work  of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC). My delegation 
would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  for  his  able 
leadership of the Court.
Japan attaches great importance to the central role 
of the ICC in ending impunity and enhancing the rule 
of  law  at  the  international  level.  That  role  is  closely 
linked  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security  through  its  efforts  to  achieve  justice  and 
prevent  heinous  crimes  and  other  grave  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law. 
We  should  recall  that  there  is  now  a  serious  call  for  a 
referral of the situation in Syria to the ICC.
This  year,  which  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the  ICC  has 
made significant progress. In March, it issued the first 
judgment in the Lubanga case, in which a warlord accused 
of recruiting and using child soldiers was convicted and 
sentenced. Japan welcomes this significant step towards 
a fully operational international criminal justice system 
and the development of international criminal law.
In  the  past  10  years,  the  ICC’s  credibility  has 
increased around the world. As noted in the President’s 
report,  the  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
20 
12-57486
Statute  grew  from  115  to  121  during  the  reporting 
period. Japan would particularly like to extend a warm 
welcome to the Republic of Vanuatu, which became the 
eighteenth  Asia-Pacific  member  of  the  ICC  at  the  end 
of 2011. Japan reaffirms its commitment to continuing 
to encourage those Asia-Pacific States that have not yet 
done  so  to  ratify  or  accede  to  the  Statute  by  offering 
its  assistance  in  developing  legal  systems  and  human 
resources.
While 
commending 
the  Court’s 
invaluable 
achievements,  my  delegation  notes  that  the  past  10 
years  have  left  us  with  some  challenges  that  we  may 
have  to  tackle  over  the  next  decade.  One  of  the  major 
challenges  facing  the  ICC  is  how  to  gain  States’ 
cooperation  in  fulfilling  the  mandate  given  it  by  the 
Rome Statute. Effective implementation of the Statute 
can  be  achieved  only  on  the  basis  of  full  cooperation 
by States. Japan calls on all States parties to cooperate 
fully with the ICC in accordance with their obligation 
under  the  Rome  Statute.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like 
to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  Ambassador 
Tiina  Intelmann,  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  for  her  tireless  efforts  in 
addressing this issue.
the  Court  and 
In  cases  where  situations  in  a  non-State  party  are 
referred  to  the  Court  by  Security  Council  resolutions, 
cooperation  between 
the  Council 
is  crucial.  In  that  connection,  we  recall  the  ICC’s 
experience  in  the  cases  of  Darfur  and  Libya.  Lack  of 
cooperation  can  not  only  result  in  a  failure  to  indict 
perpetrators of serious crimes, but also undermine the 
Court’s credibility by betraying the expectations of the 
victims  and  the  international  community.  Japan  also 
expects  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the  Court 
and  the  Security  Council,  including  on  the  financial 
implications of the Council’s referrals, to deepen.
Another element I want to highlight is the efficiency 
of  the  Court.  The  fact  that  its  judicial  independence 
is  sacrosanct  does  not  render  the  Court  immune  to 
investigation of its management. We must address this 
issue  with  a  view  to  striking  a  good  balance  between 
the need for strict financial discipline and the provision 
for  procedural  legitimacy  that  a  criminal  institution 
requires.  In  that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the  fact  that 
States  parties  are  engaged  in  constructive  discussions 
on the budget in preparation for the coming Assembly 
of States Parties, and as the leading contributor would 
like  to  continue  to  assist  the  Court  in  its  efforts  to 
improve its management.
A/67/PV.31
Finally, Japan hopes that the ICC will continue its 
work in the fight against impunity and further enhance 
its  credibility.  Japan  is  determined  to  continue  its 
support of the ICC and to contribute to the maintenance 
of international peace and security.
Mr.  Silva  (Brazil):  I  join  others  in  thanking  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his address and presentation 
of the eighth report of the Court to the General Assembly 
(A/67/308). I commend him and the other judges of the 
Court on their decisive role in contributing to the rule 
of law and to the development of international criminal 
law.
Brazil  remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  the 
Rome  Statute  and  to  the  cause  of  justice  it  promotes 
by establishing the first permanent, treaty-based court 
to  try  individuals  accused  of  having  committed  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  international  concern.  On  the 
independence of such an important judicial institution 
lies the foundation of its legitimacy in bringing accused 
persons  to  justice,  with  fairness  and  with  full  respect 
for their rights.
Brazil believes that the values enshrined in the Rome 
Statute are truly universal in nature, and we have always 
been staunch supporters of the Court’s universality. In 
that  regard,  we  note  with  satisfaction  that,  during  the 
period  covered  by  the  report,  Cape  Verde,  a  member 
of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
Guatemala,  the  Philippines  and  Vanuatu  deposited 
instruments  of  ratification  or  accession,  bringing  the 
total  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to 
121. We warmly welcome all of them, and we hope that 
more States, of all sizes and on all continents, will ratify 
the Rome Statute in the near future. In South America, 
as  is  well  known,  all  countries  are  parties  to  the  ICC 
and strong supporters of the Court’s contribution to the 
cause of international justice.
In  2012,  we  celebrate  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Earlier  this 
year,  on  11  June,  the  Ministers  of  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  (UNASUR) 
adopted a special declaration on the tenth anniversary 
of the ICC, underscoring the great importance that the 
countries  of  the  region  attach  to  the  Court.  UNASUR 
countries  also  highlighted  the  success  of  and  their 
active  participation  in  the  first  Review  Conference  of 
the Rome Statute, which took place in Kampala in 2010, 
and  adopted  by  consensus  the  amendments  related  to 
12-57486
21
A/67/PV.31
the crime of aggression and to the inclusion of the use 
of  certain  means  as  war  crimes.  The  activation  of  the 
Kampala  amendments  in  2017  will  represent  a  major 
contribution  to  completing  the  international  criminal 
justice system adopted in Rome in 1998.
I should also like to highlight that the Organization 
of American States also adopted a resolution on 4 June, 
renewing  the  appeal  to  its  member  States  that  are  not 
yet  parties  to  the  ICC  to  ratify  or  accede  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  The  resolution  also  sent  a  strong  message  of 
political support to the Court.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  issued  its 
first judgment, in the case of The Prosecutor v. Thomas 
Lubanga Dyilo, in March. That represents an important 
step for the victims of the crimes and sends a message 
of  hope  to  all  those  who  seek  accountability  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  international  concern.  The 
period covered by the report also shows that the Court 
is seized of seven open situations. The fact that there are 
currently outstanding requests for arrest and surrender 
issued by the Court against 12 individuals reminds us of 
the  crucial  importance  of  cooperation,  which  involves 
States parties and non-parties to the Statute, as well as 
international, regional and subregional organizations.
Brazil  attaches  particular  importance  to  efforts 
aimed  at  reinforcing  rule-of-law  activities  that  focus 
on  prevention  and  that  support  the  domestic  capacity 
of  States  to  prosecute  serious  crimes.  States  have  a 
sovereign responsibility to deliver justice and promote 
law  enforcement  in  an  environment  of  strong  national 
institutions. They must be supported in their efforts so 
that the Court can function as a last resort.
The  next  Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  hold  a 
thematic debate under the rubric “Tenth anniversary of 
the entry into force of the Rome Statute: the challenges 
ahead”.  It  will  certainly  benefit  from  the  insights 
and  comments  made  during  a  very  interesting  and 
important debate, held a few weeks ago in the Security 
Council, on peace and justice, with a special focus on 
the role of the International Criminal Court, convened 
by the Guatemalan presidency of the Security Council 
(see  S/PV.6849).  We  commend  the  Government  of 
Guatemala for that initiative. 
On  that  occasion,  Brazil  and  many  other  States 
parties  to  the  ICC  had  the  opportunity  to  elaborate 
on  the  role  the  Court  plays  in  fostering  international 
criminal  accountability  and  sustainable  peace.  Brazil 
defended  the  idea  that  when  the  Security  Council 
decides to pursue the referral track, based upon article 
13  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute,  it  must  do  so  rigorously 
and  consistently,  following  a  principled  and  coherent 
approach, thereby avoiding the risks of double standards 
and  selectivity.  Also  importantly,  Brazil  reiterated  its 
commitment  to  the  integrity  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
its firm opposition to any form of exemption of certain 
categories  of  individuals  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
ICC.
At  a  time  when  the  States  parties  are  negotiating 
the  budget  that  will  be  approved  by  the  upcoming 
Assembly,  we  would  like  to  recall  the  very  important 
issue of the financial burden of decisions of the Security 
Council to refer situations to the International Criminal 
Court. Security Council referrals may entail formidable 
expenses to the ICC, and such financial responsibility 
should  be  borne  by  the  international  community  as  a 
whole  with  funds  provided  by  the  United  Nations, 
subject to the approval of the General Assembly.
In  its  10  years  of  existence,  the  ICC  has  already 
demonstrated  its  importance  in  furthering  justice 
and  in  contributing  to  world  peace.  Brazil  takes  this 
opportunity  to  express  once  again  our  full  support  to 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  our  appreciation 
to President Song.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
thanks  President  San-Hyun  Song  and  his  team  at  The 
Hague  for  their  comprehensive  report  on  the  work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  the  past  year 
(A/67/308).
We  join  this  debate  to  affirm  the  commitment  of 
the  Philippine  Government  and  the  Filipino  people  to 
fighting impunity anywhere in the word. For us, genuine 
global peace cannot be possible if it is not anchored in the 
principles underlying international criminal justice. As 
long as there is impunity, the international community 
will always condemn the most serious crimes of concern 
to  the  international  community  in  the  strongest  terms 
possible. The international community will ensure that 
the perpetrators account for their crimes. By so doing, 
the international community will affirm that there will 
be no peace without justice, not just for our generation 
but also for generations yet to come. For the greater part 
of human history, that was not even possible. But it is 
possible now because for the past decade we have had 
the International Criminal Court.
The current reporting period has been a milestone 
year  for  international  law  in  general  and  international 
22 
12-57486
criminal justice in particular. On 24 September, for the 
first  time  since  international  law  created  the  United 
Nations  67  years  ago,  we  finally  devoted  a  High-
level  Meeting  to  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and 
International Levels. 
We  adopted  a  Declaration  (resolution  67/1)  that 
recognizes that, across and beyond the United Nations 
system, we have the institutions, the working methods 
and  the  relationships  to  make  the  rule  of  law  relevant 
to peace and security, human rights and development. 
One  of  those  institutions  is  none  other  than  the 
Court. In paragraph 23 of the Declaration, we recognize 
its role in a multilateral system that aims to end impunity 
and  establish  the  rule  of  law.  Our  goal  is  universality. 
In the current reporting period,  the Philippines became 
the  117th  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  thank 
those countries that have commended and congratulated 
us  and  other  countries  for  that  decision.  Now  we  join 
the call for many more countries, particularly from the 
Asia-Pacific region, similarly to ratify or accede to the 
Rome Statute.
Our ratiﬁ cation of the Rome Statute was the logical 
follow-up  to  the  enactment  in  2010  by  the  Philippine 
Congress  of  Republic  Act  No.  9851,  also  known  as 
the  Philippine  Act  on  Crimes  Against  International 
Humanitarian  Law,  Genocide,  and  Other  Crimes 
Against  Humanity.  The  law  incorporates  many  of  the 
obligations of international humanitarian law and of the 
Rome Statute into the domestic law of the Philippines.
Also  during  this  period,  Ms.  Miriam  Defensor 
Santiago  of  the  Philippines  was  elected  as  a  judge 
of  the  Court.  Her  election  brings  women  judges  to 
a  majority  of  13  out  of  24  judges.  We  reiterate  our 
gratitude for the invaluable support of States parties to 
her candidacy. With Fatou Bensouda’s election in June 
as  Chief  Prosecutor,  the  Philippines  is  confident  that 
international criminal justice will be safer in women’s 
hands.
Perhaps more important to note is the first judgment 
and sentence handed down by the Court. On 14 March, 
after  a  three-year  trial,  Thomas  Lubanga  was  found 
guilty  of  war  crimes,  specifically  for  the  recruitment 
of child soldiers, as specified by President Sang-Hyun 
Song. Thus, those who have committed or are thinking 
of  committing  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity 
or  war  crimes  should  take  heed.  Crime  does  not  pay. 
There is nowhere to hide. Sooner or later, offenders will 
A/67/PV.31
answer  to  the  law.  If  national  courts  cannot  try  them, 
the International Criminal Court will be ready for them.
We pay close attention to developments in the other 
judicial proceedings in six situations, investigations in 
seven situations and preliminary examinations in nine 
countries.
As  we  know  only  too  well,  the  work  of  justice 
is  never  easy.  With  respect  to  the  Court,  we  are 
relieved  that  the  four  members  of  its  staff  were  able 
to  safely  depart  from  their  mission  in  Libya.  For  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  justice  can  be 
particularly  difficult  in  countries  devastated  by  the 
cycle  of  violence  and  conf lict,  whether  sectarian  or 
otherwise. National jurisdiction is the first defence and 
the first bulwark against criminal impunity. The Court, 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
should  help  these  countries  to  build  their  domestic 
capacities, including through such technical assistance 
as  the  training  of  judges,  prosecutors,  the  police  and 
the military.
is  essential 
Human  resource  development 
to 
devising  country-specific  systems  for  the  protection 
of  citizens  and  their  human  rights.  At  the  same  time, 
States parties must ensure that our respective criminal 
justice  systems  are  transparent,  fair,  effective  and 
relatively  speedy,  allowing  for  the  prosecution  of  the 
crimes contemplated by the Rome Statute.
To  conclude, 
in  anticipation  of 
the  eleventh 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
scheduled for later this month in The Hague, we call on 
all  United  Nations  States  Members,  all  States  parties 
and even those that are not yet States parties to sustain 
the momentum of this milestone year for international 
criminal  justice  by  supporting  the  work  of  the  Court 
through adequate resources, including moral, political, 
diplomatic and, most of all, financial resources.
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  All  of  us 
respect international justice and give it high priority. It 
is indispensable to our efforts to establish international 
peace and security. The United Nations was established 
for that very reason. However, and regrettably, we find 
that  the  Organization,  which  we  hope  will  establish 
and enforce international justice and spare the whole of 
humankind the scourge of war, is limited in its ability 
to even condemn aggression. That is the greatest crime 
condemned by the Charter of the United Nations. 
12-57486
23
A/67/PV.31
In  this  context,  I  regret  to  say  that  my  country 
was  subjected  to  a  treacherous  act  of  aggression  on 
24  October  by  the  Zionist  entity.  The  Israeli  air  force 
attacked a military plant producing conventional arms 
and ammunition in my country. The treacherous attack 
destroyed the military plant, killed a number of innocent 
people, and demolished a number of houses in the area 
surrounding the factory. It led to huge material loss, in 
addition to the senseless loss of innocent human life. 
We have heard no words spoken about those events 
in this international Organization. Today in the General 
Assembly,  one  of  its  principal  organs,  we  have  heard 
no condemnation of that act of aggression, even though 
it  has  been  condemned  by  a  large  number  of  regional 
organizations  and  political  groups.  What  kind  of 
international justice are we talking about? The United 
Nations is unable to condemn aggression. 
Moreover,  new  entities  have  failed  to  prove  their 
credibility in the service of international justice. They 
have  objected  to  the  noble  concept  of  international 
justice  and  set  it  aside,  relegating  it  to  the  intricacies 
of politics. The best example of that is the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  In  our  opinion,  it  was  born 
handicapped because it mixed that noble concept with 
the complexities of politics and politicized international 
justice.
My  delegation  has  read  the  report  of  the  ICC 
covering  the  activities  of  the  Court  during  the  period 
from  August  2011  to  July  2012  (A/67/308),  which  was 
submitted to the General Assembly on the basis of the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  ICC.  It  actually  provides  nothing  new.  On  the 
contrary, it clearly indicates the increasing deviation of 
the Court from the goal of its work and shows it being 
affected by political considerations. 
the 
that 
countries 
Therefore, 
participated 
the  United  Nations  Diplomatic  Conference 
in 
of  Plenipotentiaries  on 
the  Establishment  of  an 
International  Criminal  Court  in  order  to  reach  an 
understanding  on  the  concept  of  impunity  and  the 
maintenance  of  justice  have  reservations  concerning 
the  ICC’s  approach  to  implementing  its  Statute  and 
discharging its mandate. 
The relationship between the Security Council and 
the  ICC  is  subject  to  many  doubts  and  caveats,  which 
took shape at the time of the 1998 Conference in Rome. 
This was clearly expressed in the statement by the Arab 
Group  and  has  been  reiterated  since  then.  At  the  time 
Security  Council  resolution  1593  (2005)  was  being 
deliberated,  some  members  of  the  Council  expressed 
divergent  views  on  the  relationship  between  the  ICC 
and  the  Council.  This  is  shown  by  the  report  of  the 
ICC  before  the  Assembly  in  its  attempt  to  explain  the 
Court’s failure to discharge its task in Palestine and in 
illogical claims cloaked in laws and regulations.
The references in paragraph 90 of the report lead us 
to caution against the politicization of the Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC, 
as well as any effort to turn the United Nations and its 
missions and peacekeeping operations into instruments 
in  the  hands  of  certain  inf luential  Powers  and  into  a 
secretariat  for  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  and  its 
policies,  which  are  not  approved  by  the  international 
community.  We  stress  that  the  specialized  work  of 
the  United  Nations,  which  is  based  on  the  will  of  its 
Members  and  on  international  or  bilateral  agreements 
with 
the  sole 
responsibility  of  the  Organization  and  its  Members. 
Any  other  arrangement  runs  counter  to  the  terms  of 
reference  agreed  upon  between  the  United  Nations 
and  its  Members,  especially  insofar  as  peacekeeping 
operations are concerned. 
individual  countries,  should  be 
The references in paragraph 95 of the report to the 
detention of four staff members of the Court in Zintan, 
Libya, by the competent authorities are yet further proof 
of  the  failure  of  the  Court  to  respect  the  sovereignty 
of  States.  They  even  indicate  a  clear  violation  of  the 
national laws of countries. 
It is clearly evident from what we have stated that 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  ICC  and  the 
United  Nations  is  defective.  In  the  framework  of  the 
reform  of  the  international  Organization  in  general, 
and of the Security Council in particular, we call for a 
review of that Agreement.
The delegation of the Sudan would like to express 
its full and firm confidence that peace-loving countries, 
guided  by  the  true  values  of  justice,  freedom  and 
equality, will not allow justice to be politicized in this 
way  or  the  Court  to  be  diverted  from  the  purpose  for 
which it was established. We are solidly confident that 
the  majority  of  Member  States,  including  the  parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute,  fully  realize  the  justness  and 
soundness of the Sudan’s position. This is obvious from 
the support given to the Sudan by the geographical and 
political  groups  to  which  it  belongs.  We  are  confident 
that  the  conscience  of  peoples  is  truly  aware  of  the 
hegemony  of  inf luential  States  over  the  Court  and  its 
24 
12-57486
A/67/PV.31
targeting of African leaders and the African continent 
in  a  manner  that  recalls  the  loathsome  imperialism  of 
all, given that most of those tried by the Court are from 
Africa.  At  the  same  time,  the  Court  is  unable  to  deal 
with many of the crimes committed in Palestine, Iraq, 
Afghanistan and many other places around the world.
In  conclusion,  the  just  nature  of  the  Sudanese 
judiciary  is  a  guarantee  of  justice.  The  Sudanese 
judiciary  has  long  historical  experience  beyond  our 
borders,  and  we  are  therefore  more  than  capable  and 
qualified  to  ensure  justice  in  my  country,  a  task  for 
which we have sole responsibility.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work  of  the 
First  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its 
2nd  plenary  meeting,  on  21  September,  the  General 
Assembly approved the recommendation of the General 
Committee  that  the  First  Committee  would  complete 
its work by Wednesday, 7 November 2012. However, I 
have been informed by the Chair of the First Committee 
that the Committee requests an extension of its work to 
Friday,  9  November,  in  view  of  the  significant  impact 
of Hurricane Sandy on the work of the Committee. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  agenda  item  for  this 
meeting. 
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees to extend the work of the First Committee until 
Friday, 9 November? 
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
12-57486
25
