United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
52nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 11 December 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.52
Ofﬁ cial Records
President:
Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/79, 
A/67/79/Corr.1, A/67/79/Add.1 and Add.2)
Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole (A/67/87)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.21)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/315)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.22)
Mr. Salam (Egypt): At the outset, Egypt expresses 
its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Secretariat’s  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law 
of  the  Sea  for  preparing  the  reports  related  to  the 
status  of  oceans  and  seas  (A/67/79,  A/67/79/Corr.1, 
A/69/79 Add.1 and Add.2) and to sustainable fisheries 
(A/67/315).
Despite the extensive efforts of the United Nations to 
address the challenges regarding the state of the oceans 
and  seas,  considerable  challenges  remain,  as  human 
activities  are  taking  a  continuing  toll  on  the  viability 
of marine ecosystems. Marine pollution is still a major 
concern. The high number of offshore drilling incidents 
and leakages indicates that the marine environment is 
highly vulnerable to pollution resulting from accidents 
linked to activities at sea.
Egypt  emphasizes  the  need  to  further  enhance 
efforts  and  programmes  seeking  to  tackle  the  threats 
caused  by  higher  sea  temperatures,  sea-level  rise 
caused  by  climate  change  and  ocean  acidification 
to  marine  life,  coastal  and  island  communities  and 
national  economies.  At  the  core  of  those  efforts  lies 
the  need  to  build  the  capacity  of  States  to  implement 
relevant international instruments, particularly through 
channelling  additional  funding  to  support  efforts  to 
mitigate  and  adapt  to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change.
We  further  emphasize  the  importance  of  work  at 
the  international  level  to  strengthen  and  develop  the 
field  of  marine  scientific  research,  particularly  in  the 
context of the International Seabed Authority, and the 
study of the effects of mining activities on the marine 
environment at sea bottom. 
Additional progress is needed in resolving disputes 
concerning  maritime  boundary  delimitation, 
in 
particular those with a potential to become sources of 
tension  and  conflict.  The  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  provides  a  sound 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64324 (E)
*1264324*
A/67/PV.52
basis  for  such  situations,  and  Member  States  should 
avail  themselves  to  the  fullest  extent  possible  of  the 
international  judicial  bodies  such  as  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the International 
Court of Justice.
Turning to maritime security, Egypt notes with great 
relief the reduction in reported incidents of piracy and 
armed robbery against ships off the coasts of Somalia 
during  the  first  six  months  of  2012,  in  comparison 
with  past  years.  The  reduction  in  such  attacks  could 
be partially attributed to a number of factors, such as 
the  application  of  best  management  practices  by  the 
shipping  industry  and  a  continuing  naval  presence. 
However,  such  international  efforts  have  so  far  dealt 
with  only  one  part  of  the  problem,  as  the  focus  is  on 
combating  acts  of  piracy  at  sea  instead  of  directing 
greater attention to the fundamental underlying causes 
on  the  mainland.  Egypt  has  warned  against  a  partial 
approach  and  has  always  emphasized,  particularly 
through  its  participation  in  the  Contact  Group  on 
Piracy  off  the  Coast  of  Somalia  and  its  chairmanship 
of  the  Working  Group  on  Electronic  Commerce,  the 
importance  of  adopting  a  comprehensive  approach 
that takes into account the root causes of the problem 
and  addresses  its  political,  security,  economic  and 
humanitarian dimensions in Somalia.
Moreover, we also express our continued concern 
about the incidents of piracy and armed robbery against 
ships in the Gulf of Guinea, off West Africa, and the 
adverse  effects  that  such  incidents  have  on  African 
maritime trade. We call on the international community 
to give due attention to that issue. 
As  for  sustainable  fisheries,  Egypt  emphasizes 
the  need  for  more  efforts  to  protect  endangered  fish 
species,  fight  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing, and refrain from destructive fishing practices 
on the seabed.
Egypt reaffirms that the States parties to the 1995 
Fisheries  Agreement  should  review  its  provisions  to 
take into consideration the reservations by non-parties, 
especially  developing  countries, 
those 
provisions  relating  to  boarding  and  searching  fishing 
vessels. That would enable the latter group of countries 
to become parties and to enhance cooperation in order 
to  protect  sustainable  fisheries  and  to  work  for  their 
development.
including 
As this year marks the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening  for  signature  of  UNCLOS,  Egypt  reiterates 
its  conviction  as  to  the  overarching  significance  of 
the  Convention  in  the  strengthening  of  international 
peace  and  security,  international  cooperation  and  the 
sustainable development of the oceans and seas.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
welcomes and is greatly encouraged by the importance 
that  the  General  Assembly  continues  to  give  to  the 
issue of oceans and the law of the sea. This meeting, 
held immediately following our commemoration of the 
thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature  of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
highlights the importance of the Convention. 
We note with appreciation the report of the Secretary-
General on oceans and the law of the sea, contained in 
documents A/67/79, A/67/79/Corr.1, A/67/79Add.1 and 
Add.2, as well as the report on the work of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group of the Whole, contained in document 
A/67/87.  Those  documents  present  the  various  efforts 
and the latest developments relating to oceans and the 
law of the sea in a comprehensive and detailed manner.
This session’s draft resolution on oceans and the law 
of the sea (A/67/L.21), which we will consider today, is 
a testament to the continued interest and value placed 
by Member States in the sustainable use of oceans and 
their resources, anchored on the rule of law.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea is heralded as the constitution of the oceans, in that 
it establishes the legal framework governing all aspects 
of ocean use and development. It establishes a legal order 
that guarantees and safeguards not only the exercise of 
those  rights  but,  just  as  important,  compliance  with 
obligations.  In  a  world  of  competing  interests  and  of 
nations  with  varying  degrees  of  political,  economic 
or  military  stature,  that  legal  framework  is  not  just 
important but absolutely necessary. It gives nations an 
equal voice and provides nations an equal legal footing.
As  an  archipelago  and  a  maritime  nation  that 
relies  on  the  oceans  for  its  continued  development, 
the  Philippines  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to 
a  just,  orderly  and  meaningful  legal  regime  for  our 
seas and oceans. We note the continuing development 
of  international  law  as  it  relates  to  ocean  use  and 
jurisdiction, through the decisions of the International 
Tribunal  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  await  with  keen 
interest the decisions of the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the  International  Seabed 
Authority.  We  note  the  recent  relevant  decisions  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  likewise  look 
2 
12-64324
A/67/PV.52
The  Secretary-General’s  report  highlights 
forward to next year’s Meeting of States Parties to the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, as it 
holds promise for a meaningful discussion on law of the 
sea issues involving States parties and observers alike.
the 
increasing  cooperative  activities,  cross-cutting  in  all 
regions and sectors from marine scientific research and 
marine environmental protection to search-and-rescue 
at sea and combating piracy and other maritime crimes. 
That is clear evidence that States parties are conscious 
of the governing principle expressed in the Convention 
that the problems of ocean space are closely interrelated 
and need to be considered as a whole.
Despite  all  efforts  at  cooperation,  however, 
problems  still  exist  in  many  areas.  Marine  pollution 
and  destructive  fishing  methods  continue  to  threaten 
the fragile ocean environment. Piracy remains a threat 
to the safety of navigation, and other maritime crimes 
continue  to  threaten  our  security.  All  nations  are 
continually challenged by the oceans and even by the 
application and development of international norms and 
conventions governing its uses and the management of 
its resources and environment.
The Philippines welcomes the fact that in this year’s 
omnibus draft resolution on oceans and the law of the 
sea  (A/67/L.21),  attention  is  once  again  drawn  to  the 
impact of piracy on the safety and welfare of seafarers. 
Indeed,  piracy  is  a  menace  to  the  world.  It  disrupts 
global trade and poses genuine security threats. It has a 
direct impact on the lives of seafarers and their families. 
The  Philippines,  with  an  estimated  350,000  sailors, 
accounts for nearly a quarter of the world’s seafarers. 
We  know  full  well  how  each  incident  of  piracy  cuts 
through the lives of every seafarer and his family. We 
welcome the attention given to capacity-building with 
regard to the safety and security of seafarers.
The  Philippines  also  welcomes  the  developments 
on  the  marine  environment  and  marine  resources 
reflected  in  Section  X  of  the  draft  resolution.  It  also 
gives attention to the outcomes of the United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in “The future 
we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  particularly  to 
the  concern  that  the  health  of  the  oceans  and  marine 
biodiversity are negatively affected by marine pollution 
from  a  number  of  marine  and  land-based  resources. 
International  marine  scientists  have  widely  regarded 
the  Philippines’  waters  as  a  centre  of  global  marine 
biodiversity.  It  is  in  everyone’s  interests  that  such 
diversity  be  protected  from  those  who  ignore  their 
responsibilities, to the detriment of our generation and 
posterity.
As  the  Secretary-General  points  out  in  his  report 
(A/67/79),  the  importance  of  marine  biodiversity, 
including  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  for 
global food security and for healthy, functioning marine 
ecosystems,  economic  prosperity  and  sustainable 
livelihoods cannot be overstated. We welcome the first 
meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group, convened in May in accordance with paragraph 
168 of resolution 66/231, with a view to ensuring that the 
legal  framework  for  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction effectively addresses these issues.
The  Philippines  notes  that  certain  advances  have 
been  made  on  key  issues  and  concerns  in  today’s 
draft resolution, and wishes to highlight the continued 
importance of its Section V, on the peaceful settlement 
of disputes. UNCLOS has never been more important 
than  today  for  developing  countries  such  as  our  own, 
when  overlapping  maritime  claims  in  our  part  of  the 
world threaten us as never before. It provides a proper 
and  proven  mechanism  for  peacefully  resolving  such 
claims  so  as  to  ensure  global  and  regional  peace  and 
cooperation  and  stability  in  the  just  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  natural  resources.  We  believe  that  the 
rules-based approach in UNCLOS is the way forward 
in addressing maritime disputes, including in our own 
region.
The theme of our session this year is the adjustment 
or  settlement  of  international  disputes  by  peaceful 
means.  This  year  we  also  commemorate  the  thirtieth 
anniversary of the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes.  Against  this 
backdrop,  we  are  afforded  a  singular  opportunity  to 
renew our pledge and demonstrate our commitment to 
abide by our obligations as responsible members of the 
international community. It is on that demonstration of 
commitment to the rule of law that the success of the 
Convention rests. On that demonstration of commitment 
to the rule of law rests the success of all our efforts to 
secure for ourselves and posterity the benefits derived 
from the responsible use of our world’s oceans.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation for the statement made in the 51st meeting 
by the Permanent Representative of Palau on behalf of 
the Pacific Islands Forum, which mentioned the effects 
of climate change and related issues, such as sea-level 
rise.  We  saw  such  effects  in  Typhoon  Bopha,  which 
12-64324
3
A/67/PV.52
struck  my  country  recently,  causing  great  loss  of  life 
and property. Indeed, ocean experts and experts on the 
law of the sea should definitely consider this issue as 
something that needs to be addressed. 
As  a  country  that  has  a  keen  interest  in  the 
oceans and their resources, the Philippines once again 
expresses its commitment to being a constructive and 
active partner in this draft resolution, fully aware of the 
promise it holds for the maintenance of legal order on 
the oceans and for our responsibility and duty to ensure 
that we comply with it.
Ms.  Prince  (United  States  of  America):  My 
delegation  has  the  honour  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea (A/67/L.21) 
and on sustainable fisheries (A/67/L.22).
As the host country, we were pleased to participate 
in  yesterday’s  commemoration  of 
thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  and  we 
are  pleased  to  have  the  floor  today  to  discuss  related 
matters: the annual draft resolutions on oceans and the 
law of the sea and on sustainable fisheries.
the 
As  the  world  community  recognized  in  Rio  this 
past  summer,  oceans,  seas  and  coastal  areas  form  an 
integrated  and  essential  component  of  the  Earth’s 
ecosystem  and  are  critical  to  sustaining  it.  In  fact, 
healthy  oceans  and  coasts,  and  their  resources,  are 
necessary  for  global  prosperity.  International  law,  as 
reflected  in  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
provides the legal framework for the conservation and 
sustainable use of the oceans and their resources. The 
annual  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  oceans  and 
fisheries that we are debating today serve as important 
opportunities for the global community to identify key 
marine-related  issues  and  develop  constructive  ways 
forward to address them.
We  would  like  to  highlight  two  aspects  of  this 
year’s draft resolution on oceans. 
First, we are very pleased that the draft resolution 
reflects  the  many  important  oceans  commitments 
in  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  “The  future 
we want” (resolution 66/288, annex). We believe those 
commitments demonstrate the importance of the oceans 
and their resources for sustainable development. 
In particular, we look forward to further work on 
initiatives  to  address  ocean  acidification,  including 
the International Atomic Energy Agency’s new Ocean 
Acidification 
International  Coordination  Centre, 
in  Monaco.  We  believe  it  is  critical  to  increasing 
international  collaboration  on  ocean  acidification 
research, monitoring and observation, particularly with 
regard  to  the  effects  of  acidification  on  shell-forming 
organisms, marine biodiversity and food security. That 
new  Coordination  Centre  will  serve  as  an  important 
means to develop a more comprehensive understanding 
of  the  global  effects  of  ocean  acidification.  Also  in 
that  regard,  we  were  very  pleased  by  the  selection  of 
the  topic  of  the  impacts  of  ocean  acidification  on  the 
marine  environment  for  next  year’s  United  Nations 
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  look  forward  to  fruitful 
exchanges on this important matter in that forum.
The  second  important  aspect  of  this  year’s  ocean 
resolution that we wish to highlight relates to progress 
towards  the  highly  anticipated  publication  of  the 
first  global  integrated  marine  assessment,  or  the 
world  ocean  assessment,  under  the  Regular  Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socio-economic 
Aspects.  The  Regular  Process  was  established  at  the 
2002  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Johannesburg. It is an initiative we have all endorsed, 
through the General Assembly, as a means to improve 
our  understanding  of  the  oceans  and  the  efficacy  of 
the  decisions  we  make  to  conserve  and  manage  its 
resources. We were pleased to host, last month, a very 
successful  world  oceans  assessment  workshop  for  the 
wider Caribbean. 
We  recognize  and  appreciate  the  hard  work  and 
dedication  of  the  Group  of  Experts  of  the  Regular 
Process.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  all  of  our 
partners  to  establish  a  robust  pool  of  experts  from 
around  the  globe  to  write  and  review  that  ground-
breaking report on the state of the oceans by 2014.
We  would  also  like  to  highlight  two  key  aspects 
in  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries 
(A/67/L.22).
First,  we  are  pleased  that  it  reflects  the  many 
important  commitments  with  regard  to  fisheries, 
conservation and management in the outcome document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, 
annex).  We  believe  those  commitments  demonstrate 
the  importance  of  sustainable  fisheries  resources 
for  small-scale  fisherfolk  and  women  fish  workers, 
4 
12-64324
indigenous  peoples,  developing  countries  and  small 
island  developing  States.  In  addition,  they  illustrate 
the  importance  for  the  international  community  of 
working collaboratively to eliminate illegal, unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing,  to  ensure  transparency  and 
accountability  in  fisheries  management  by  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations,  and  to  enhance 
protection  of  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  from 
significant adverse impacts.
the  sustainable 
their 
For  several  years, 
fisheries 
resolutions have urged States to ensure the conservation 
and  management  of  sharks  and 
long-term 
sustainable use. Therefore, the second important aspect 
of the draft resolution that we wish to highlight is that it 
notes with satisfaction the adoption of the Conservation 
Plan  for 
the  Memorandum  of  Understanding  on 
the  Conservation  of  Migratory  Sharks,  under  the 
Convention  on  Migratory  Species  of  Wild  Animals. 
The United States places significant importance on that 
development and very much welcomes the recognition 
by the General Assembly of the important action taken 
by the signatories to that agreement.
The  United  States  would  like  to  thank  Director 
Sergey  Tarasenko  and  the  staff  of  the  Division  for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their expertise 
and  support  on  both  resolutions.  We  would  also 
like  to  thank  Ambassador  Eden  Charles  of  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  for  his  coordination  of  the  oceans  draft 
resolution and Ms. Alice Revell of New Zealand for her 
coordination of the fisheries draft resolution. Both did 
an outstanding job.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing 
appreciation for delegations’ hard work and cooperation 
in crafting both resolutions. It is our hope that that spirit 
of cooperation will characterize our efforts to address 
the numerous and complex issues that lie ahead in the 
new year.
Mr.  Le  Hoai  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  Viet  Nam  joins 
other  delegations  in  commending  the  outstanding 
developments in the management and utilization of the 
oceans and seas in the framework of the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) in various 
parts  of  the  world.  In  full  acknowledgement  of  the 
critical role of the oceans and seas in providing global 
food security and sustaining economic prosperity and 
the well-being of many nations in the world, Viet Nam 
supports  the  continued  due  attention  of  the  General 
Assembly to the promotion of the sustainable use and 
development of the oceans and seas and their resources.
A/67/PV.52
We would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
the  comprehensive  reports  contained  in  documents 
A/67/79 and A/67/79/Add.1, which provide the Assembly 
with an excellent review of the developments related to 
ocean affairs and the law of the sea in the past year for 
its discussions on the agenda item.
My  delegation  appreciates  the  outcome  of  the 
hard  work  done  in  the  past  year  by  the  mechanisms 
established by the General Assembly in connection with 
this item. We encourage the Assembly to consider and 
endorse the recommendations and outcomes of the fifth 
meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group to study issues relating to the conservation and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction, the thirteenth meeting of 
the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative 
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  and  the 
third  meeting  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  of  the 
Whole on the Regular Process for Global Reporting and 
Assessment  of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment, 
including  Socioeconomic  Aspects.  We  also  note  with 
appreciation the achievements of the bodies established 
by  UNCLOS,  including  the  International  Seabed 
Authority,  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law 
of  the  Sea  and  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf.
We  gather  here  today  to  celebrate  the  thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of UNCLOS, 
which was undoubtedly an outstanding outcome of the 
progressive codification of international law of the sea. 
UNCLOS embodies the aspiration of the international 
community  for  a  just  international  legal  order  in  the 
oceans and has received almost universal acceptance. 
The  constitution  for  the  oceans,  as  it  has  been  aptly 
termed,  sets  out  a  comprehensive  legal  framework 
within which all activities in the oceans and seas must 
be  carried  out.  It  constitutes  the  principal  basis  for 
the maintenance of peace and stability, the promotion 
of  maritime  economic  development  and  the  rational 
exploitation  and  conservation  of  marine  natural 
resources  and  the  environment  in  all  maritime  areas 
under or beyond national jurisdiction. 
In  addition,  UNCLOS  sets  up  a  new  mechanism 
of  dispute  settlement,  which  offers  the  States  parties 
additional important means of peaceful solution to their 
disputes in relation to the interpretation and application 
of the Convention.
UNCLOS  provides  a  fine  balance  of  rights  and 
duties of States parties. It does not allow reservations 
12-64324
5
A/67/PV.52
to  be  made  to  any  provision.  States  parties  to  the 
Convention are therefore obliged to implement it fully, 
in good faith and in a responsible manner. They are to 
respect  the  legitimate  rights  to  which  coastal  States 
parties are entitled in their territorial seas, contiguous 
zone,  exclusive  economic  zone  and  continental  shelf. 
They  are  to  cooperate  in  the  development  of  marine 
scientific research, the optimum exploitation of living 
resources and conservation of the marine environment, 
and to manage the international seabed in the interest 
of mankind.
immediately  after 
Viet Nam actively and constructively participated 
in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of 
the Sea in Montego Bay, Jamaica. Viet Nam was among 
the 100 States to sign the Convention on 10 December 
1982, 
its 
ratification of UNCLOS in 1994, Viet Nam has made 
great efforts to implement the Convention, as shown in 
the report on Viet Nam’s implementation of UNCLOS 
submitted  to  the  Secretary-General  for  circulation  as 
an official document of the sixty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly under agenda item 75 (a), “Oceans 
and the law of the sea”. 
its  adoption.  Since 
in 
line  with 
Furthermore, 
the  provisions  of 
UNCLOS and related State practices, Viet Nam adopted 
the Law of the Sea of Viet Nam in June. The Law is a 
significant legislative effort to harmonize the provisions 
of UNCLOS into our national law, contributing to the 
improvement  of  the  national  legal  framework  relating 
to  the  sea  and  the  islands  of  Viet  Nam.  For  the  first 
time,  we  have  a  law  of  the  highest  legal  effect  under 
the  Constitution  that  contains  a  comprehensive  legal 
regime for Viet Nam’s maritime zones and islands. The 
Law of the Sea of Viet Nam provides the country and 
foreign entities and individuals operating in the marine 
areas under Viet Nam’s jurisdiction a fundamental legal 
basis for the use, management and protection of marine 
areas  and  resources,  including  cooperative  activities 
with other countries on marine economic development. 
As  a  country  with  3,260  kilometres  of  coastline 
facing the South China Sea, known as the Eastern Sea in 
Vietnamese, Viet Nam’s interest in the sea is significant. 
We  care  very  dearly  about  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and stability, including maritime security, as well as the 
promotion of prosperity and friendly cooperation in the 
South China Sea in accordance with international law, 
in  particular  UNCLOS.  In  that  connection,  Viet  Nam 
calls  on  all  signatory  States  to  fully  implement,  and 
other States to support the implementation of, the 2002 
Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China 
Sea  adopted  by  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) and China and the 2012 statement of 
ASEAN  Foreign  Ministers  on  its  Six-Point  Principles 
on the South China Sea. Viet Nam stands ready to work 
towards  the  early  conclusion  of  a  code  of  conduct  in 
the South China Sea, with a view to further promoting 
peace, stability and cooperation in the region.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  “The 
future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), the outcome 
document  adopted  by  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20  Conference)  in 
June, pays particular attention to issues related to the 
oceans, their resources and the threats facing them. In 
doing so, that important document highlights the vital 
political  aspect  of  the  General  Assembly’s  role  in  its 
annual deliberations on oceans and the law of the sea. 
The statements made at the commemorative meetings 
held  in  this  Hall  on  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea recall the commitment of States to that true 
constitution of the oceans.
celebrated 
event  by  hosting 
the  colloquium  “The  Law  of  the  Sea  30,  Years 
After  Montego  Bay:  Economic  Opportunities  and 
Environmental  Challenges”  last  October.  This  year, 
various innovative initiatives were also submitted and 
implemented.  The  World  Bank  launched  the  Global 
Partnership for Oceans and submitted the Declaration 
for  Healthy  and  Productive  Oceans  to  Help  Reduce 
Poverty  to  the  Rio+20  Conference.  The  international 
exposition  in  Yeosu,  Republic  of  Korea,  under  the 
theme of “The Living Ocean and Coast”, provided the 
framework  for  the  third  edition  of  the  Monaco  Blue 
Initiative on the theme of “Marine Protected Areas: a 
win-win for biodiversity and economic development”. 
Such  areas  are  useful  tools  in  combating  overfishing 
and reconstituting fish stocks.
Monaco 
that 
In  a  protected  and 
regulated  environment, 
sustainable  tourism,  aquaculture  and  development 
activities  can  be  undertaken  successfully  without 
harming the environment.  The Yeosu exposition also 
saw the launching of the Secretary-General’s “Oceans 
Compact — Healthy Oceans for Prosperity” initiative.
Under the leadership of His Serene Highness Prince 
Albert II, the Principality of Monaco is continuing its 
long-standing  commitment  and  redoubling  its  efforts 
to  promote  awareness  of  the  need  to  protect  oceans 
on  account  of  their  vital  role  in  ensuring  sustainable 
6 
12-64324
strategic 
importance  of 
development.  The 
the 
contribution  of  oceans  in  the  areas  of  food  security, 
tourism,  the  protection  of  marine  biodiversity  and 
energy compels us to implement the parameters of a blue 
economy. It also requires that, together, we appreciate 
the  social,  economic  and  environmental  value  of  the 
oceans  and  organize  our  cooperation  in  line  with  the 
realities that we all face.
To that end and in the post-2015 context, Monaco 
will support the defining of a sustainable development 
goal  on  the  oceans,  which  should  unify  our  action. 
Such cooperation should be established with all actors, 
including the private sector, and should be based on the 
knowledge provided by the scientific community.
We  can  only  note  that,  every  year,  there  is  an 
increasing  need  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate 
change, in particular ocean acidification. The issue of 
ocean acidification, which has appeared in the General 
Assembly  resolution  since 
its  sixty-first  session, 
receives increased attention this year. The Government 
of  Monaco  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  Ocean 
Acidification International Coordination Centre within 
the  Environmental  Laboratories  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in  Monaco.  The 
setting up of the Centre was declared by the American 
authorities and the IAEA on the margins of the Rio+20 
Conference.
That cooperation platform will make it possible to 
better understand acidification, to deepen research, to 
follow  developments  in  various  regions  of  the  world 
that  are  not  affected  in  the  same  way  and  to  define 
solutions for the most vulnerable organisms, including 
crustaceans and corals.
The  second 
International  Workshop  on 
the 
acidification  of  oceans,  held  in  Monaco  from  11  to 
13 November, was devoted to the socioeconomic impact 
of ocean acidification on fishing and aquaculture. Fifty-
five  experts  from  19  countries  and  representatives  of 
international organizations met at the invitation of the 
IAEA  and  of  the  Scientific  Centre  of  Monaco,  which 
has  been  working  on  ocean  acidification  for  several 
years.
We  also  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Open-Ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea has been extended for a new period of two 
years and that its fourteenth meeting in June 2013 will 
focus on the effects of ocean acidification on the marine 
environment.
A/67/PV.52
The  Principality  of  Monaco  supports  the  urgency 
stated in Rio of taking a decision before the end of the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly on drawing 
up an international instrument on the conservation and 
sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas 
beyond national jurisdiction in the context of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
I would like to warmly thank the representatives of 
Trinidad and Tobago and New Zealand, who efficiently 
conducted the consultations on the two draft resolutions 
that Monaco sponsors (A/67/L.21 and A/67/L.22). Our 
thanks  also  go  to  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and 
the Law of the Sea, the specialized institutions of the 
United Nations and the other bodies working in the area 
of oceans and the law of the sea, whose work provide 
the basis for our annual debates. 
Mr.  Yamazaki  (Japan):  Let  me  first  join  other 
representatives  in  thanking  the  coordinators  of  the 
two  draft  resolutions  (A/67/L.21  and  A/67/L.22), 
Ambassador  Eden  Charles,  Deputy  Permanent 
Representative of Trinidad and Tobago, and Ms. Alice 
Revell,  Legal  Adviser  of  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
New Zealand, for their tremendous work. I also wish to 
thank all Member States that have worked together in a 
spirit of cooperation during the informal consultations 
on the draft resolutions. My appreciation also goes to 
the United Nations Secretariat for its assistance.
With regard to agenda item 75 (a), entitled “Oceans 
and the law of the sea”, Japan would like to point out 
that  it  is  a  maritime  State  surrounded  by  water  and 
dependent on maritime transport for nearly all imports 
of  energy  resources,  including  oil  and  minerals.  The 
adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.21,  which  deals 
with  crucial  issues  for  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security in the world, such as the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes,  the  freedom  of  navigation,  safety  at  sea 
and  compliance  with  international  laws,  including 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS), is extremely important to maritime States, 
such  as  Japan,  and  to  the  international  community  as 
a whole. In that regard, Japan is pleased to co-sponsor 
that  draft  resolution,  which  is  entitled  “Oceans  and 
the law of the sea”. Japan would also like to take this 
opportunity to welcome the accession of Ecuador and 
Swaziland to UNCLOS.
With  respect  to  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Law of the Sea, Japan highly appreciates the important 
role  played  by  the  Tribunal  in  terms  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  as  well  as  the  maintenance 
12-64324
7
A/67/PV.52
and  development  of  the  rule  of  the  law  at  sea.  Japan 
welcomes  the  fact  that  cases  have  been  continually 
submitted  to  the  Tribunal  since  its  establishment. 
Japan  also  welcomes  the  Tribunal’s  first  maritime 
delimitation judgement, which was delivered in March 
of this year, following the first advisory opinion of the 
Seabed  Disputes  Chamber  of  the  Tribunal,  issued  in 
February 2011, pursuant to a request by the Council of 
the International Seabed Authority. Japan is pleased to 
see that the Tribunal’s work covers various fields. Japan 
is committed to continuing its contribution to and full 
support for the valuable work of the Tribunal, under the 
leadership of President Yanai.
With regard to the International Seabed Authority, 
Japan welcomes the adoption in July of the Regulations 
on  Prospecting  and  Exploration 
for  Cobalt-rich 
Ferromanganese  Crusts  in  the  Area,  following  the 
adoption  of  the  Regulations  on  Prospecting  and 
Exploration  for  Polymetallic  Nodules  in  the  Area 
in  2000  and  the  Regulations  for  Prospecting  and 
Exploration for Polymetallic Sulphides in the Area in 
2010.
approach 
between 
exploration 
In  view  of  the  importance  of  ensuring  a  well-
and 
balanced 
environmental  protection  in  the  Area,  Japan  highly 
values the workshops on such issues organized by the 
Authority.  Japan  has  been  supporting  the  activities 
undertaken by the Authority in various ways, including 
through the Japanese contractor for the exploration of 
polymetallic nodules and other relevant organizations. 
I would like to affirm Japan’s intention to continue its 
support to the Authority.
With regard to the Commission on the Limits of the 
Continental Shelf, I wish to pay tribute to its consistent 
work  on  a  total  of  61  submissions,  which  has  led  to 
the adoption of 18 recommendations, including on the 
submission  of  Japan.  In  the  light  of  the  considerable 
number  of  submissions,  Japan  is  confident  that  the 
several measures adopted by the Commission, including 
on the extended duration of the Commission’s sessions 
in  2013,  on  the  basis  of  decisions  taken  through  last 
year’s  resolution  under  this  agenda  item  (resolution 
66/231),  will  help  solve  the  Commission’s  workload 
issue.
Following its pledge at the twenty-second Meeting 
of States Parties to UNCLOS, held in June, Japan made 
an additional disbursement of approximately $352,000 
to the trust fund at the end of November for the purpose 
of defraying the costs of participation in its meetings 
by  members  of  the  Commission  from  developing 
States.  Japan  firmly  believes  that  through  voluntary 
contributions  to  the  trust  funds  by  State  parties  and 
the steady implementation of the measures decided last 
year  to  solve  the  issue  of  the  heavy  workload  of  the 
Commission, the smooth and expeditious consideration 
of submissions by the Commission, to which members 
were newly elected in June, will be possible.
Regarding the maritime safety and security issue, 
piracy off the coast of Somalia and in the Gulf of Aden, 
which  is  now  spreading  to  areas  off  the  East  Africa 
coast and the Indian Ocean, continues to pose a serious 
threat  to  maritime  security.  Japan  is  of  the  view  that 
a  multilayered  approach  that  includes  assistance  to 
maritime  enforcement  capacity-building  in  Somalia 
and  its  neighbouring  countries  and  other  medium-  to 
long-term efforts to strengthen stability in Somalia, in 
addition to operations by naval vessels, must be pursued 
to suppress piracy.
Japan has currently deployed escort ships and patrol 
aircraft  to  the  region,  and  works  together  with  other 
countries to deal with piracy. In addition, Japan has so far 
disbursed $14.6 million and $3.5 million, respectively, 
to  the  International  Maritime  Organization  Djibouti 
Code  of  Conduct  Trust  Fund,  which  is  a  multi-donor 
trust fund that Japan initiated, and to the Trust Fund to 
Support Initiatives of States Countering Piracy off the 
Coast of Somalia. Japan also continues to play a leading 
role within the framework of the Regional Cooperation 
Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery 
against Ships in Asia. 
With  regard  to  agenda  item  75  (b),  entitled 
“Sustainable fisheries”, Japan would like to state that, as 
a responsible fishing State and a State party to UNCLOS 
and  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of 
the  Provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to 
the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish 
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  Japan  is 
committed to addressing the promotion of sustainable 
the  conservation  and  management 
use 
of  marine 
the  appropriate 
conservation of the marine ecosystem, in cooperation 
with the parties concerned, through bilateral fisheries 
agreements, the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the United Nations and regional fisheries management 
organizations.
living  resources  and 
through 
Japan  welcomes  recent  developments 
the 
management of high-seas bottom fishing, including the 
in 
8 
12-64324
A/67/PV.52
conclusion  of  arrangements  establishing  new  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations,  which  reflects 
earlier  resolutions  on  sustainable  fisheries,  especially 
those  adopted  in  2006  and  2009.  Japan  will  further 
promote  the  management  of  high-seas  bottom  fishing 
by mobilizing support for the earliest entry into force 
of those arrangements in cooperation with other parties 
and related organizations.
Before  concluding,  Japan  wishes  to  express  its 
hope  that  the  two  draft  resolutions  before  us,  which 
are the result of intensive negotiations among Member 
States  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  during  the  informal 
consultations,  will  be  duly  adopted  at  this  session  of 
the General Assembly.
Mr. Panin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
We speak with special feeling in today’s meeting on the 
issue of the international law of the sea, on the occasion 
of the thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
in  1982.  We  echo  words  spoken  yesterday  and  today 
on  the  historic  significance  of  the  Convention  and  its 
role in ensuring effective international cooperation in 
the use of the world’s oceans. We pay tribute to those 
who  were  present  at  the  birth  of  the  Convention  and 
contributed to its drafting.
Given  the  number  of  parties  to  the  Convention 
from  all  regions  of  the  world,  it  can  be  said  without 
doubt  that  this  international  treaty,  encompassing  all 
aspects  of  marine  activity,  has  become  a  genuinely 
global  instrument.  It  is  important  that  we  vigilantly 
maintain  the  integrity  of  the  legal  regime  established 
by  the  Convention  and  the  multilateral,  conscientious 
implementation of its provisions, in the interest of stable 
and predictable relations among States in maritime and 
marine matters.
Of course, the world is changing. It is developing, 
and international law is also developing. Recently, we 
have  heard  ideas  about  expanding  some  provisions  of 
the Convention. In some cases, those ideas are based on 
situations that actually exist, and we must not back away 
from making comprehensive, in-depth studies of such 
proposals. At the same time, however, we must refrain 
from taking steps that would change the Convention’s 
time-tested norms. 
We  must  also  bear  in  mind  that  the  Convention 
was adopted as a package decision and a multifaceted 
document  that  reflects  a  very  delicate  balance  of 
interests.  The  Convention  was  intentionally  made 
to  ensure 
that 
flexible 
it  could  be  successfully 
implemented  in  practice  over  an  extended  period  of 
time. Today, we can say with pride that the principles 
on which that universal international document is based 
have proved their worth. The Convention is a living and 
contemporary  instrument  of  great  importance  to  the 
international community. 
The  significance  of 
to 
the  world’s  oceans  for 
humankind  continues 
is  highly 
increase. 
important today to ensure the sustainability of marine 
activity,  maritime  safety,  the  management  of  marine 
resources, and a healthy marine environment for future 
generations.  We  stress  that  States  themselves  should 
play  the  main  role  in  addressing  problems.  The  scale 
and complexity of the problems we face in this sphere 
require us to focus our efforts on developing a unifying 
agenda. In that context, we note the understanding on 
marine  issues  that  was  achieved  during  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio 
de Janeiro in June. 
It 
The Russian Federation calls for the conservation 
and sustainable use of marine resources, in accordance 
with the Convention. At the same time, in the absence 
of  reliable  science  and  a  solid  legal  basis  we  cannot 
support  initiatives  that  may  lead  to  the  arbitrary 
limitation of marine activities. 
We welcome the progress achieved in the Ad Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to  study  issues 
relating  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction.  We  suggest  that  the  Group  should  be 
the  primary  forum  for  reviewing  issues  of  biological 
ocean resources. We welcome the General Assembly’s 
decision  to  hold  two  thematic  workshops  in  2013  to 
work  towards  a  better  understanding  of  problems  in 
that sphere.
The  successful  functioning  of  the  bodies  set  up 
pursuant to the Convention inspires hope. States must 
take  further  measures  to  create  favourable  conditions 
for  their  work.  In  that  regard,  particular  attention 
should be given to the Commission on the Limits of the 
Continental Shelf, which has a considerable workload. 
In our view, the Commission is fulfilling its functions 
very  well,  and  we  commend  the  measures  aimed  at 
speeding  up  the  processing  of  State  communications 
without any loss in the quality of the reviews.
We note the high quality of the work of the Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  under 
12-64324
9
A/67/PV.52
Director Sergey Tarasenko. We believe that, given the 
increased workload of the Division and other relevant 
entities,  States  should  offer  additional  support.  We 
welcome  the  increasing  activity  of  the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  demonstrates 
the  trust  States  place  in  the  Tribunal  as  an  effective 
instrument of international justice. We highly commend 
its contribution to developing jurisprudence on the law 
of the sea and the positive trend in its work. We hope 
that will continue in the future. 
The Russian Federation pays particular attention to 
measures  to  conserve  and  manage  fish  resources.  We 
welcome  the  increase  in  measures  to  combat  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing. We are pleased to 
note the consistent steps being taken to bolster controls 
by flag States, and the increasingly effective measures 
implemented  by  port  States.  The  Russian  Federation 
will  continue  to  actively  participate  in  measures  to 
protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, both on its own 
and within the framework of relevant regional fisheries 
management organizations.
In conclusion, we thank Ambassador Eden Charles 
and  Ms.  Alice  Revell,  coordinators  of  the  informal 
consultations on draft resolution A/67/L.21 on oceans 
and the law of the sea and draft resolution A/67/L.22 on 
sustainable fisheries, for their work to create consensus. 
Mrs.  Daniel  (Nauru):  At  the  outset,  let  me  align 
my  delegation  with 
the  statements  delivered  by 
the  representative  of  Palau  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific 
Island  Forum  and  by  the  representative  of  Samoa  on 
behalf  of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
(see A/67/PV.51).
The  topic  of  this  meeting  is  an  important  one  to 
Nauru.  Marine  and  coastal  resources  are  critical  to 
our  economy,  our  food  security  and  our  culture.  The 
sustainable  use  of  our  marine  resources  is  one  of  our 
primary tools for eradicating poverty, and we hope to 
ensure healthy oceans and access to their resources not 
only  for  ourselves  but  for  future  generations  as  well. 
Unfortunately, there are many challenges to that hope.
Marine,  ocean,  coastal  and  fisheries  resources 
are the foundations of the economies of Pacific small 
island developing States (SIDS) and represent a critical 
pathway to future growth. However, current benefits to 
the Pacific from the utilization of those resources are 
inequitable,  as  is  the  conservation  burden.  That  must 
change.
The  capacity  of  developing  States, 
including 
the  least  developed  among  them,  and  of  small  island 
developing States to participate in straddling and highly 
migratory  fisheries  has  to  be  built  or  enhanced,  and 
we  must  take  the  measures  necessary  for  developing 
States  participating  in  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations  to  enjoy  a  greater  and  fairer  share  of 
fishing  opportunities.  To  that  end,  we  look  forward 
to  the  identification  and  mainstreaming  by  2014  of 
strategies  that  will  assist  our  people  to  realize  the 
benefits  of  sustainable  fisheries,  including  through 
improved market access. We remind all of the need to 
ensure  access  to  fisheries  and  markets  for  countries 
like Nauru, as agreed to in the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks,  and  reiterated  in  draft  resolution  A/67/L.22, 
on  sustainable  fisheries,  which  we  have  come  here  to 
adopt.
The 2014 timeline for that work will be especially 
important, given the upcoming International Conference 
on SIDS to be held that year in the Pacific. As noted in 
draft resolution A/67/L.21, the omnibus text on oceans 
and  the  law  of  the  sea,  the  Conference  will  consider, 
among  other  issues,  the  challenges  SIDS  face  in  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  resources 
and in the preservation of the marine environment. We 
thank  our  neighbour  Samoa  for  hosting  that  historic 
meeting, and we look forward to working with others 
to ensure its success.
We  are  deeply  concerned  by 
the  numerous 
pressures being put on the oceans. One critical example 
is  overfishing.  Scientists  have  repeatedly  stated  that 
overfishing is one of the major threats to ocean health. 
Illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  further 
exacerbates 
threat,  while  destructive  fishing 
practices  such  as  bottom  trawling  cause  enormous 
damage to marine ecosystems. 
the 
The issues are not new, but innovative approaches, 
renewed  commitment  and  urgent  implementation  of 
strategies  to  combat  unsustainable  and  destructive 
fishing must be at the forefront of building a resilient 
ocean,  thereby  safeguarding  food  security  and  a 
sustainable  future  for  countries  like  Nauru.  We  are 
therefore pleased that the international community has 
committed to maintaining or restoring stocks to levels 
that  can  produce  maximum  sustainable  yield  by  the 
10 
12-64324
2015  deadline,  as  agreed  to  under  the  Johannesburg 
Plan of Implementation. We hope that those will not be 
empty words.
We in Nauru are proud that the biomass of all the 
highly migratory and straddling fish stocks assessed by 
the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission 
(WCPFC)  are  above  the  levels  capable  of  producing 
maximum  sustainable  yield,  as  qualified  by  relevant 
environmental and other factors, and that none of those 
tropical regional fish stocks require rebuilding, thanks 
largely to effective cooperation among coastal States of 
the region. 
We  do,  however,  have  concerns  that  the  biomass 
of  bigeye  tuna  might  be  reduced  below  maximum 
sustainable  yield  by  2015  if  high  levels  of  fishing 
mortality continue on the tropical Pacific high seas. We 
hope that the collective membership of the WCPFC will 
follow the lead of the parties to the Nauru Agreement in 
imposing compulsory limits on the vessels under their 
jurisdiction,  particularly  longliners.  The  nations  that 
are parties to the Nauru Agreement will be applying an 
overall effort to limit longline fishing in their combined 
exclusive economic zones — an area of nearly 14 million 
square kilometres — from 1 January 2013.
Another issue of deep concern is ocean acidification. 
The  combined  impacts  of  climate  change  —  namely, 
sea-level  rise,  increased  sea-surface  temperature  and 
intensified  storm  activity  —  and  the  adverse  effects 
of  ocean  acidification  caused  by  increased  dissolved 
carbon  dioxide  heighten  the  threat  to  ocean  health. 
Coral  reef  ecosystems  are  particularly  susceptible  to 
climate change and ocean acidification and may be the 
first  marine  ecosystems  to  collapse  without  urgent, 
increased mitigation action.
Urgent  and  deep  reductions  in  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  are  a  global  imperative.  In  addition,  given 
existing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and 
oceans,  building  the  resilience  of  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems  to  the  impacts  of  climate  change  and 
ocean acidification is essential to enabling sustainable 
development and eradicating poverty. We look forward 
to  the  increased  focus  on  that  issue  at  the  upcoming 
meeting  of  the  Informal  Consultative  Process  on 
Oceans and the Law of the Sea.
We would also like to highlight the new text in this 
year’s  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  on  the 
need to quantify and control the use of large-scale fish 
aggregating  devices,  which  are  man-made  structures 
A/67/PV.52
that provide shelter for fish in the open ocean. Setting 
purse-seine nets around these devices often results in 
catches  of  juvenile  bigeye  tuna  that  have  not  yet  had 
a  chance  to  breed,  contributing  to  overfishing  of  the 
species.  In  the  context  of  its  national  plan  of  action, 
Nauru is proud to state that we were among the first to 
institute controls on industrial fish-aggregating devices. 
We are pleased to see that the international community 
now  also  recognizes  the  need  to  quantify  and  control 
the  use  of  these  devices,  and  we  look  forward  to  the 
implementation of such action.
One of our biggest problems at the moment is not 
with highly migratory and straddling stocks — which 
we  feel  are  coming  under  control  in  the  tropical 
western Pacific — but with artisanal reef fisheries. The 
information needs of those local fisheries are of an order 
of magnitude more complex than those of tuna fisheries, 
and yet in our region the development resources devoted 
to them by the international community are, in fact, of 
an order of magnitude less. 
Those  are  national  issues  and,  of  course,  require 
national  action,  but  we  would  ask  that  international 
initiatives  and  regional  agencies  not  lose  sight  of  the 
fisheries  that  are  so  important  to  our  people  at  the 
local  level  and  that  they  not  concentrate  their  efforts 
exclusively  upon  the  straddling  and  highly  migratory 
fisheries, with respect to which they can get the most 
recognition or obtain the easiest wins. 
I am not talking about increased basic research on 
reef ecosystems; we have enough species lists to last us 
a lifetime. What we need is more attention to fishing 
itself —  building  systems  that  work  at  the  local  level 
by  talking  to  fishers,  compiling  hard  information  on 
their activities and needs, and helping them to work out 
socially applicable solutions to any overfishing that is 
identified. We would urge that those considerations be 
taken under advisement in the work of our partners and 
of the United Nations system.
In  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  “The 
Future  We  Want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  leaders 
committed  themselves  to  protecting  and  restoring 
the  health,  productivity  and  resilience  of  oceans  and 
marine  ecosystems,  enabling  their  conservation  and 
sustainable use for present and future generations. We 
believe that we will have moved in the correct direction 
with the adoption of the draft resolutions here today. We 
look  forward  to  further  advancing  that  work  through 
12-64324
11
A/67/PV.52
the eventual adoption of a sustainable development goal 
on oceans.
Mr.  Li  Baodong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
Oceans  and  seas  cover  71  per  cent  of  the  Earth’s 
surface  and  are  closely  linked  to  the  survival  and 
development  of  humankind.  The  maritime  order  is  a 
significant  component  of  the  international  order.  As 
an important legal document governing contemporary 
international  maritime  order, 
the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  with 
due regard for the sovereignty of all States, establishes 
norms  on  fundamental  maritime  issues,  including  the 
legal  status  of  various  parts  of  the  ocean,  the  rights 
and  obligations  of  States,  the  utilization  of  maritime 
resources, environmental protection of the oceans and 
seas, maritime demarcation and dispute settlement.
In  a  stroke  of  creative  genius,  it  has  designated 
international seabed areas beyond national jurisdictions 
as the common heritage of humankind and established 
institutions, such as the International Seabed Authority, 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
(CLCS) and the International Tribunal for the Law of the 
Sea (ITLOS), to effectively manage the exploitation of 
international seabed resources, the delimitation of the 
outer limits of the continental shelf, and the settlement 
of  maritime  disputes.  The  Convention  affirms  that 
matters not regulated by it continue to be governed by 
the rules and principles of basic international law, thus 
ensuring its inclusiveness and openness.
To  date,  the  Convention  has  earned  worldwide 
recognition and has been widely supported and upheld 
by  the  international  community.  On  the  occasion  of 
the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening for signature of the Convention, I wish to pay 
the highest tribute to those who contributed to the birth 
of  the  Convention,  particularly  the  late  Ambassador 
Arvid Pardo of Malta and the late Ambassador Hamilton 
Shirley Amerasinghe, of Sri Lanka. 
I wish to take the opportunity to elaborate on China’s 
position and views on various aspects of the oceans and 
the law of the sea. First, China highly commends the 
CLCS for its contribution to the balanced handling of 
the legitimate rights and interests of coastal States and 
the  overall  interests  of  the  international  community. 
We support the Commission’s ongoing fulfilment of its 
mandate in accordance with the Convention and its own 
rules of procedure, in order to maintain the quality and 
professionalism of its consideration of submissions. We 
call on the international community to continue to assist 
the Commission in finding appropriate solutions to the 
problems related to its workload, and we congratulate 
its members on their election. 
Secondly, the Chinese delegation congratulates the 
International  Seabed  Authority  on  its  achievements 
over  the  past  year,  and  Mr.  Nii  Allotey  Odunton  on 
his  re-election  as  Secretary-General  of  the  Authority. 
The Chinese Government has continuously and firmly 
supported the work of the Authority and the effective 
and  full  participation  of  developing  countries  in 
international seabed affairs. 
In July, China made a further donation of $20,000 
to the Authority’s voluntary trust fund to facilitate the 
participation  of  developing  countries  in  meetings  of 
the Legal and Technical Commission and the Finance 
Committee.  Last  month,  a  Chinese  research  institute 
and  the  Authority  jointly  convened  an  international 
workshop in Beijing on the implementation of article 8 
of the Convention. The Authority has begun formulating 
regulations  on  the  exploitation  of  resources  in  the 
Area. China is of the view that such formulating work 
should be progressive, aligned with technological and 
industrial advances, and reflect an appropriate balance 
between 
resource  utilization  and  environmental 
protection, and between exploitation interests and those 
of the international community as a whole.
Thirdly,  China  notes  the  increasing  activities  of 
the  ITLOS  in  terms  of  both  its  caseload  and  number 
of decisions, the increasing topical coverage of cases, 
and  the  Tribunal’s  growing  influence,  which  indicate 
that  the  judicial  body  has  entered  a  new  phase  of 
comprehensive  implemention  of  its  mandate  under 
the Convention. The Tribunal is also playing an active 
part  in  assisting  the  capacity-building  of  developing 
countries,  which  China  greatly  appreciates.  China 
values and supports the important role of the Tribunal 
in the peaceful settlement of maritime disputes, and the 
maintenance  of  the  international  maritime  order  and 
in  raising  awareness  on  issues  concerning  the  law  of 
the  oceans  and  seas.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
efforts of the Tribunal to enhance the capacity-building 
of developing countries.
Fourthly, the Chinese side supports the adoption by 
the General Assembly of the concrete recommendations 
of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group to 
study issues related to the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of 
national  jurisdiction.  China  is  of  the  view  that  since 
the  high  seas  and  international  seabed  Area  involve 
12 
12-64324
the interests of the entire international community, the 
proper handling of marine biodiversity of those areas is 
crucial to the maintenance of an equitable and rational 
international  maritime  order.  Relevant  work  should 
therefore proceed incrementally and fully accommodate 
the 
legitimate  needs  of  all  countries,  especially 
developing countries, for marine bioresources. 
In  addition,  China  notes  with  satisfaction  the 
establishment  of  the  institutional  framework  of  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic Aspects, as well as the positive progress 
on various aspects of the Regular Process. Under United 
Nations auspices, in February China hosted a workshop 
in  Sanya  on  the  eastern  and  south-eastern  Asia  seas, 
thereby  contributing  to  regional  capacity-building  in 
marine environmental assessment. China considers the 
smooth progress of the Regular Process important and 
looks forward to its anticipated outcomes. We support 
enhancing the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea as the secretariat of the Regular Process.
Fifthly, China continues to attach high importance 
to  the  issue  of  greenhouse-gas  emissions  from  ships, 
and  has  taken  note  of  the  relevant  work  carried  out 
by  the  International  Maritime  Organization.  China 
believes  that  the  key  to  addressing  that  question  is 
to  uphold  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  established  by  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. At present, 
work  on  that  issue  should  focus  on  facilitating  the 
technological  advancement  of  developing  countries 
through technology transfer and capacity-building with 
a view to improving the energy efficiency of ships.
Sixthly, as a responsible fishing nation, China takes an 
active part in the work of various international fisheries 
organizations  and  is  committed  to  strengthening  the 
conservation  and  management  of  fisheries  resources. 
China  will  continue  to  work  with  the  countries 
concerned to promote the development and refinement 
of the international fisheries management regime and 
the regulation of fishing activities in order to achieve 
the  sustainable  use  of  marine  bioresources,  conserve 
the marine ecological balance, and ensure the sharing 
of fisheries benefits by all countries. 
China advocates enhanced international cooperation 
and coordination in line with the spirit of the Convention 
in order to safeguard the peace, security and openness 
of the oceans and to promote the common development 
of  all  countries.  We  advocate  the  establishment  and 
A/67/PV.52
maintenance  of  a  harmonious  maritime  order  under 
which  the  international  community  must  emphasize 
both the proper protection of the ocean and its rational 
use;  strike  a  balance  between  the  interests  of  coastal 
States  and  the  overall  interests  of  the  international 
community; properly accommodate the legitimate rights 
and  freedoms  of  all  countries,  especially  developing 
countries,  landlocked  countries  and  geographically 
disadvantaged countries, with respect to the use of the 
ocean; and promote the peaceful settlement of maritime 
disputes in accordance with the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and of international 
law, including the UNCLOS.
China  has  consistently  pursued  an  independent 
foreign  policy  of  peace  and  good-neighbourliness 
by  building 
friendships  and  partnerships  with 
neighbouring countries.
As to international insular and maritime disputes, 
China  maintains  its  position  that  sovereign  States 
directly  concerned  should  seek  a  peaceful  settlement 
through  friendly  consultation  and  negotiation  based 
on international law, including the Convention. China 
believes that establishing and maintaining a harmonious 
maritime order will enable all countries to benefit from 
the  opportunities  offered  by  the  ocean,  seek  common 
responses  to  the  challenges  of  the  ocean,  and  further 
the  common  development  of  marine  areas.  In  that 
context, such order is in the interest of the international 
community as a whole.
Finally,  I  thank  Ambassador  Eden  Charles  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Ms.  Alice  Revell  of  New 
Zealand  for  their  contributions  as  facilitators  of  draft 
resolutions A/67/L.21 and A/67/L.22. 
Mr.  Shapoval  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  extensive 
and helpful report on the subject of oceans and the law 
of the sea (A/67/79). Aligning itself with the statement 
of  the  European  Union,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
take the floor in its national capacity.
the 
These  days,  we  are  celebrating 
thirtieth 
anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  1982 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS).  I  am  proud  that  my  delegation  is  among 
those  that  have  put  their  signatures  to  that  historic 
document,  which  has  indeed  become  a  constitution 
for  the  oceans.  An  affirmative  answer  will  respond 
to  the  question  raised  by  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh 
of  Singapore  30  years  ago:  yes,  the  Convention  has 
12-64324
13
A/67/PV.52
stood  the  test  of  time.  Moreover,  that  monumental 
achievement  of  the  international  community  is  about 
to  achieve  universality,  with  164  States  parties  as  of 
today. I would like to reiterate my country’s strongest 
commitment  to  the  Convention  as  a  comprehensive 
legal  framework  covering  all  aspects  of  the  activities 
related to oceans and seas.
I  now  turn  to  the  draft  resolutions  before  us 
today.  Ukraine  is  grateful  to  all  delegations  for  their 
cooperation  during  the  consultations.  We  appreciate 
the  fact  that  this  year’s  omnibus  draft  resolution  on 
oceans and the law of the sea (A/67/L.21) highlights the 
importance  of  keeping  up  efforts  aimed  at  providing 
safety and security in international maritime shipping. 
One of the major challenges in this field is piracy 
and armed robbery at sea. Although considerable gains 
have  been  made  thus  far  in  combating  this  threat,  a 
lot of work is still ahead of us. Noting that the current 
declining  trend  in  the  number  of  attacks  is  reversible 
and  predominantly  dependent  on  the  international 
naval patrol, my country has decided to make its own 
contribution  in  this  regard.  The  decision  has  been 
taken by the Government of Ukraine to send the frigate 
Hetman Sahaidachny, a flagship of the Ukrainian Naval 
Forces, to the waters off the Horn of Africa as a part of 
NATO Operation Ocean Shield. The frigate, equipped 
with  a  deck  helicopter,  is  currently  undergoing  final 
preparations to head for the waters off the Somali coast.
The fight again piracy cannot be successful without 
the  fight  against  impunity  for  its  perpetrators  and 
organizers. In this respect, Ukraine welcomes the fact 
that this year’s draft resolution once again encourages 
Member  States  to  make  efforts  to  bring  pirates  and 
their  sponsors  to  justice.  Current  statistics  in  this 
respect  are  very  encouraging;  1,186  individuals  are 
being prosecuted or awaiting prosecution in 21 States. 
Building  on  this  initial  success  will  not  be  possible 
without a sufficient legal basis for the apprehension and 
prosecution of those who are alleged to have committed 
those  crimes.  International  law,  as  reflected  in  the 
Convention,  enables  us  to  apprehend  and  prosecute 
pirates.  The  key  role  in  this  process  is  played  by  our 
national legislation. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  is  very  pleased 
that,  upon  its  proposal,  the  omnibus  draft  resolution 
calls upon States to actively cooperate with a view to 
developing  their  national  anti-piracy  legislation.  Our 
national  legal  tools  have  to  correspond  to  the  current 
challenges and threats to maritime safety and security, 
of  which  piracy  is  the  most  pressing.  Ukraine  stands 
ready to further actively engage in this subject matter 
within the framework of the United Nations and other 
competent  entities,  and  welcomes  Member  States’ 
initiatives and suggestions in this regard.
As  one  of  the  major  States  of  seafarers’  origin, 
Ukraine notes with appreciation that the comprehensive 
annual resolution on the law of the sea has continuously 
encouraged Member States, the International Maritime 
Organization,  the  International  Labour  Organization 
and  other  actors 
to  develop  measures  aimed  at 
protecting  the  welfare  of  seafarers  who  are  victims 
of  pirates,  including  measures  for  their  post-incident 
treatment  and  reintegration  into  society.  We  highly 
appreciate the work carried out in this field, including 
the  development  of  guidance  to  address  care  for 
seafarers who have suffered from attacks and capture 
by pirates. We urge flag States and ship owners to do 
their utmost in ensuring the security of crew members.
Our  highest  appreciation  goes  to  the  Division  for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for providing us 
excellent  conference  services  and  support  throughout 
the  year.  We  are  also  profoundly  grateful  to  the 
coordinators of both draft resolutions for their valuable 
stewardship during the negotiations. 
Mr. Neo (Singapore): My delegation is privileged 
to address the General Assembly under agenda item 75, 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. We thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  on  oceans  and 
the law of the sea (A/67/79) and on sustainable fisheries 
(A/67/315).  We  also  thank  the  coordinators  of  draft 
resolutions  A/67/L.21  and  A/67/L.22,  Ambassador 
Eden  Charles  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Ms.  Alice 
Revell of New Zealand, for their able stewardship of the 
consultations. We also express our appreciation to the 
staff of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of 
the Sea for their support on these drafts.
Yesterday,  the  General  Assembly  commemorated 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). 
Singapore is grateful that our own Ambassador Tommy 
Koh was given the honour of presiding over the Third 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
which  gave  birth  to  that  constitution  of  the  oceans, 
which has stood for three decades.
In  many  ways,  UNCLOS  created  a  new  global 
order.  It  struck  a  balance  between  increasing  the 
jurisdictional  claims  of  coastal  States  over  adjacent 
14 
12-64324
sea  areas  and  preserving  the  important  rights  of  the 
international  community  in  areas  claimed  by  coastal 
States, including the freedom of navigation. UNCLOS 
also  entrenched  the  concept  of  the  common  heritage 
of humankind in international law, which safeguarded 
the collective rights of nations over parts of the oceans 
that  were  beyond  claims  that  coastal  States  could 
legitimately  make.  Just  as  importantly,  UNCLOS 
established  a  comprehensive  set  of  dispute-settlement 
mechanisms 
their 
differences  peacefully  through  bilateral  negotiations, 
arbitration  or 
third-party  adjudication.  That  has 
helped  to  maintain  peace,  order  and  discipline  in  the 
governance of our oceans.
that  enabled  States 
to  resolve 
My delegation welcomes the two new ratifications 
of  the  Convention  during  the  period  under  review, 
bringing  the  total  number  of  parties  to  164.  For  the 
most  part,  the  Convention  already  reflects  customary 
international 
the 
minority  of  non-party  member  States  to  give  serious 
consideration to accession so that the Convention will 
achieve universal membership.
law.  However,  we  encourage 
Singapore  is  committed  to  the  full  and  complete 
implementation  of  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  are  a  small 
island nation strategically located at the junction of the 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore and the South China 
Sea, the gateway between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
We are also one of the three littoral States bordering the 
Straits  of  Malacca  and  Singapore.  As  our  total  trade 
is three times our gross domestic product, freedom of 
navigation is of critical importance to Singapore. 
Today, 90 per cent of global trade is carried by sea. 
About half of that passes through the Straits of Malacca 
and Singapore. It is therefore in the interest of all States 
to continue to preserve the freedom of navigation and 
passage  rights  through  these  and  other  waters,  and 
even more so in these uncertain economic times, as the 
freedom of navigation has a direct and tangible impact 
on global trade.
New  possibilities  and  challenges  have  emerged 
since  the  adoption  of  UNCLOS  30  years  ago.  New 
technologies  have  made  possible  the  exploration  and 
exploitation  of  resources  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction.  At  the  same  time,  increasing  coastal 
populations  have  put  pressure  on  coastal  and  marine 
ecosystems. Some of these challenges may prompt fresh 
debate  over  the  sufficiency  or  proper  application  of 
UNCLOS. The international community has to respond 
to  these  challenges  in  a  way  that  maintains  not  only 
A/67/PV.52
the balance of uses in the oceans and seas, but also the 
peaceful order that we have enjoyed therein. We must 
resist the temptation to put undue emphasis on certain 
aspects of the Convention that may be of keen national 
interest at a particular point of time, and risk reading 
into  the  Convention  interpretations  that  the  drafters 
never intended.
We must therefore remind ourselves that UNCLOS 
was drafted as a package, and no selectivity should be 
exercised in its application. It is critical to maintain the 
indivisibility of the Convention, which is the sole and 
overarching legal framework for the oceans and seas. 
Some of the new challenges we face are explicitly dealt 
with in the Convention’s text; others are not. But it is 
my delegation’s firm view that the Convention contains 
both  the  core  set  of  principles  that  should  be  applied 
and the necessary scope for us to successfully address 
all emerging issues relating to the oceans and seas.
The international community reached an important 
and  significant  milestone  on  sustainable  development 
in June this year in Rio de Janeiro. Our leaders agreed 
to  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288, annex), which built on the Rio Declaration on 
Environment and Development and on Agenda 21. Our 
leaders  committed  to  addressing,  on  an  urgent  basis, 
the  issue  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction,  including  by  taking  a  decision  on  the 
development  of  an  international  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
implement 
their  obligations  under 
Our  leaders  also  urged  all  parties  to  UNCLOS 
to 
the 
fully 
Convention, recognizing that we should be careful not 
to undermine freedom of navigation and other equally 
important interests. It bears repeating that the careful 
compromises  embodied  in  UNCLOS  have  served  us 
well. As the international community charts the future 
of  our  oceans,  it  is  imperative  that  we  do  so  without 
undermining the integrity of the Convention.
Mrs. Mørch Smith (Norway): The United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  sets 
forth the legal order for the world’s seas and oceans. It 
provides a solid foundation for the peaceful, responsible 
and predictable management of the oceans. The peaceful 
and sustainable use of the oceans and sound fisheries 
management remain key priorities for Norway.
12-64324
15
A/67/PV.52
is  global 
Another  Norwegian  priority 
food 
security.  Oceans  are  critical  to  global  food  security, 
and  sustainable  and  responsible  marine  management 
is of vital importance if the oceans are to continue to 
be a source of human food. Norway supports measures 
to  strengthen  sustainable  fisheries  management  and 
actions to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems from 
destructive  fishing  practices.  The  regional  fisheries 
management  organizations  play  a  key  role  in  that 
context. 
We welcome the adoption of the outcome document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex)  earlier  this 
year, which stressed the crucial role of healthy marine 
ecosystems,  sustainable  fisheries  and  sustainable 
aquaculture  for  food  security  and  nutrition  and  in 
providing for the livelihoods of millions of people. The 
General  Assembly  emphasizes  those  important  issues 
in  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries 
(A/67/L.22) and encourages the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations to give due priority 
to those issues in its future work. 
Over the past few years, we have become concerned 
about the connections between international organized 
crime  and  fisheries  crime.  We  support  the  ongoing 
work of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
and  INTERPOL,  and  welcome  the  fact  that  there  is 
greater awareness of those links in General Assembly 
discussions.
It is essential to protect biological diversity in order 
to  maintain  the  living  networks  and  systems  that  are 
the basis of our existence. There is an urgent need to 
implement  effective  measures  to  combat  threats  to 
marine  biodiversity.  It  is  important  to  underline  that 
this also applies to areas under national jurisdiction and 
that every coastal State is responsible for implementing 
effective measures. 
We welcome the work of the Ad Hoc Open-ended 
Informal Working Group to study issues relating to the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction.  We 
support and remain committed to the decision taken in 
Rio earlier this year to address on an urgent basis the 
issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine 
biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  It 
is  important  that  all  negative  impacts  on  biodiversity 
be  examined.  Furthermore,  possible  gaps  in  the  legal 
framework  and  in  the  implementation  of  existing 
instruments should be identified, and a decision should 
be taken on the possible development of an international 
instrument under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. We welcome the opportunity to address 
those issues further at the inter-sessional workshops in 
May 2013 and at the meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended 
Informal Working Group in August 2013.
Norway firmly believes that regional organizations 
play a crucial part in protecting marine biodiversity in 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. Impacts on marine 
biodiversity may differ from region to region; different 
challenges  require  different  solutions.  Priority  should 
be  given  to  improving  the  effectiveness  of  regional 
management bodies.
Norway is concerned about the impact on the marine 
environment of increased concentrations of greenhouse 
gases in the atmosphere. We know that elevated levels 
of anthropogenic carbon dioxide in the atmosphere are 
rapidly  changing  ocean  chemistry,  leading  to  ocean 
acidification.  This  may  have  dramatic  consequences 
for  the  marine  environment  and  ecosystems.  There 
is  a  need  for  a  fuller  understanding  of  the  effects  of 
ocean acidification on marine organisms. The outcome 
document  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development calls for support for initiatives 
that address that issue. Norway therefore supports the 
proposal for the United Nations Open-ended Informal 
Consultative  Process  to  focus  on  ocean  acidification 
during discussions at its fourteenth meeting.
Mr. Sharma (India): At the outset, I wish to take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President  for  convening 
this meeting to consider agenda item 75, “Oceans and 
the law of the sea”, which holds great significance for 
the international community as a whole.
the  United  Nations  commemorates 
This year, the subject of oceans occupies a special 
place  as 
the 
thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. I congratulate the 
international community on this occasion.
Oceans  play  a  vital  role  in  supporting  life  on 
Earth.  The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development held in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, in June, entitled “The future we want” 
(resolution 66/288, annex), recognized oceans and seas 
as  integrated  and  essential  components  of  the  Earth’s 
ecosystem that are critical to sustaining it. That will be 
possible, however, only through the proper management 
and  use  of  ocean  resources  and  the  preservation  and 
16 
12-64324
protection  of  the  marine  environment.  The  oceans 
are facing a number of challenges that include illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing,  the  deterioration 
of  the  marine  environment,  biodiversity  loss,  climate 
change,  and  problems  related  to  maritime  safety  and 
security, including acts of piracy.
We would like to express our serious concern over 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea,  particularly  off  the 
coast of Somalia. Piracy is a grave threat to freedom of 
the seas, maritime trade and the security of maritime 
shipping.  It  endangers  the  lives  of  seafarers,  affects 
national security and territorial integrity, and hampers 
the economic development of nations. India is actively 
cooperating  with 
to  combat 
piracy and armed robbery at sea. We support the joint 
and  concerted  efforts  of  the  international  community 
to  tackle  that  menace.  In  that  regard,  we  express  our 
deep appreciation to the Contact Group on Piracy off 
the  Coast  of  Somalia  which,  since  its  establishment 
in January 2009, has served as an excellent forum for 
international cooperation and coordination in the fight 
against piracy off the coast of Somalia.
international  efforts 
The 1982 United Nations Law of the Sea Convention 
is  the  key  international  instrument  governing  ocean 
affairs.  It  sets  out  the  legal  framework  for  activities 
in  oceans  and  seas  and  is  of  strategic  importance  as 
the basis for national, regional and global action in the 
marine sector. With 164 parties, the Convention enjoys 
near-universal  acceptance.  Swaziland  and  Ecuador 
became  the  latest  States  to  accede  after  joining  the 
Convention on 24 September.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/67/79)  and  its  two  addenda  on  issues  concerning 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  also  welcome  the 
report  (A/67/120)  of  the  co-Chairs  of  the  thirteenth 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, 
during  which  deliberations  were  held  on  the  topic  of 
marine renewable energies. 
The  oceans  have 
significant  potential 
for 
contributing  to  meeting  energy  needs,  improving 
economic  well-being  and  reducing  greenhouse-gas 
emissions. However, while marine renewable energies 
offer  opportunities,  they  also  pose  environmental 
and  economic  challenges,  especially  to  developing 
countries,  including  in  the  areas  of  the  conduct  of 
scientific  research  and  acquisition  of  technological 
knowledge, which can be successful only with effective 
international cooperation and coordination.
A/67/PV.52
We welcome the report on the work of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  the  Regular  Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socioeconomic 
Aspects (A/67/87). We commend the Working Group’s 
efforts  towards  producing  the  first  global  integrated 
assessment of the state of the marine environment and 
look forward to its completion by 2014. We also welcome 
the  report  of  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended 
Informal Working Group to study issues relating to the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  and 
co-Chairs’  summary  of  discussions  (A/67/95,  annex). 
The  meetings  have  revealed  a  number  of  gaps  in  the 
regulation,  implementation,  governance,  coordination 
and information-sharing in the current regime for the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
in areas beyond national jurisdiction. We are confident 
that the Informal Working Group’s efforts will help to 
find ways and means for filling those gaps, including 
through developing a legal framework.
effective 
institutions 
established 
The 
the 
and  unhindered 
functioning 
of 
under 
the 
Convention — the International Seabed Authority, the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf — is 
key to achieving the goal of the fair and equitable use 
of  oceans  and  their  resources,  including  through  the 
effective  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress 
made  by  those  institutions  in  their  respective  areas, 
and support all efforts towards ensuring their smooth 
functioning. While we are fully aware of, and concerned 
about,  the  heavy  workload  of  the  Commission  on  the 
Limits of the Continental Shelf due to the great number 
of claims submitted, we are hopeful that increasing the 
nunmber of the Commission’s work weeks will help it 
to manage.
In  addition  to  the  initiatives  and  processes  that 
exist  under  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
for  the  implementation  of  its  provisions,  and  the 
studies  being  undertaken  in  various  working  groups 
mandated by the General Assembly, this year we have 
also  noted  the  launch  of  the  Secretary-General’s  new 
“Oceans Compact  — Healthy Oceans for Prosperity”. 
It  is  important  that  the  initiative’s  requirements  and 
objectives  be  established  through  open  and  regular 
consultation with Member States. We would also like 
12-64324
17
A/67/PV.52
to  stress  that  any  duplication  of  the  work  of  ongoing 
initiatives and processes should be avoided.
I  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Eden  Charles, 
the Deputy Permanent Representative of Trinidad and 
Tobago,  who  has  very  ably  coordinated  this  year’s 
consultations  for  the  draft  omnibus  resolution  on 
oceans and the law of the sea (A/67/L.21). It addresses 
a  wide  range  of  issues,  including  those  concerning 
the  implementation  of  the  Convention  and  related 
agreements, 
safety 
and  security,  marine  scientific  research,  the  marine 
environment and marine resources.
capacity-building,  maritime 
the 
We  would  also  like  to  thank  Ms.  Alice  Revell 
of  New  Zealand  for  successfully  coordinating  the 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/67/L.22).  The  fishery  sector  occupies  an 
important  place  in  the  socioeconomic  development 
of  a  great  number  of  countries,  including  India.  We 
support 
international  community’s  concerted 
efforts towards achieving sustainable fisheries by, inter 
alia, adopting measures to prevent and combat illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  by  effectively 
implementing  the  1995  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and 
the  relevant  instruments  at  the  regional  level,  and  by 
preventing overfishing. We consider the role of the Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
to  be  crucial  in  conserving  fishery  resources  and  the 
management and development of fisheries.
Our thanks also go to the whole staff of the Division 
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, particularly 
its Director, Mr. Tarasenko, for all its arrangements for 
the meetings and its constructive cooperation.
India, given its geography as a country, with a vast 
coastline  and  numerous  islands,  has  a  traditional  and 
abiding  interest  in  maritime  and  ocean  affairs.  It  is  a 
party to the Convention, the Implementing Agreement, 
and the Fish Stocks Agreement. We take a keen interest 
in  all  matters  pertaining  to  ocean  affairs  and  believe 
it  is  in  the  interests  of  the  international  community 
as  a  whole  to  continue  to  cooperate  fully  in  the 
efforts  towards  ensuring  the  proper  management  and 
sustainable use of the oceans and seas.
Mrs. Chigiyal (Micronesia): The Federated States 
of Micronesia aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the representative of Samoa on behalf of the Pacific 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS),  as  well  as  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Palau  on 
behalf of the Pacific Island Forum countries.
At the outset, my delegation would like to express its 
sincere gratitude to the Division of Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea for its important work and unwavering support 
in  facilitating  the  work  of  the  informal  negotiations. 
We  are  also  grateful  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
comprehensive  annual  reports  on  oceans  and  the  law 
of the sea (A/67/79, A/67/79/Corr.1, A/67/79/Add.1 and 
A/67/79/Add.2).  We  give  special  thanks  to  the  two 
coordinators,  Ambassador  Eden  Charles  of  Trinidad 
and Tobago and Ms. Alice Revell of New Zealand, for 
conducting the informal consultations on the two draft 
resolutions  before  us  (A/67/L.21  and  A/67/L.22).  My 
delegation is a proud sponsor of them.
This  year  marks  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
opening  for  signature  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law 
of the Sea (UNCLOS). It remains as valid today as it 
was  30  years  ago.  Indeed,  we  have  much  to  celebrate 
in  having  achieved  substantial  progress  in  the  areas 
of  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  can  rightly  use 
this  occasion  to  honour  those  individuals  and  parties 
who  had  the  wisdom  and  foresight  to  get  nations  to 
commit to what is now known as the “constitution for 
the oceans”.
Micronesia is part of a blue continent. The oceans 
bring  us  together  and  sustain  us,  and  their  resources 
enrich  us.  They  are  part  of  our  homeland,  and  our 
people’s  livelihood,  culture  and  way  of  living  depend 
on a blue economy. 
Of increasing and serious concern is the health of 
the oceans. Pollution and the transboundary movement 
of hazardous waste negatively impact our oceans. The 
adverse impacts of climate change, including rising water 
temperature, influence the movement of our fish stocks 
from our waters, and ocean acidification is eroding our 
coral  reefs.  Destructive  fishing  methods —  including 
overfishing  and  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing — require States to cooperate in taking greater 
enforcement measures. 
We  must  therefore  treat  our  oceans  accordingly 
and  defend  them  just  as  strongly.  In  that  regard, 
my  delegation  urges  all  Member  States  to  fulfil  the 
commitments  they  made  in  June  in  Rio.  The  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  affirmed  the  important  role  the  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  plays  in  achieving  sustainable 
development.  We  welcome  the  new  elements  in  this 
year’s draft resolutions, which ensure the conservation 
and sustainable use of the oceans and their resources.
18 
12-64324
My  delegation  joins  many  others  in  repeating 
the  call  made  at  Rio+20  to  address  issues  relating 
to  biological  diversity 
in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction,  which  need  to  be  addressed  through  an 
implementing  agreement  under  UNCLOS  as  soon  as 
possible. We are convinced that this will provide legal 
certainty  in  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biodiversity  in  the  high  seas,  thereby  earning 
legitimacy and credibility.
Given 
the  vulnerability  and 
limited  capacity 
of  Micronesia  as  a  small  island  developing  State, 
we  particularly  welcome  the  references  in  the  draft 
resolutions stressing the need to identify and mainstream 
strategies by 2014 that assist SIDS in developing their 
capacity  to  conserve,  sustainably  manage  and  realize 
the  benefits  of  sustainable  fisheries.  The  invitation 
to  States  and  international  financial  institutions  to 
develop  special  financial  mechanisms  or  instruments 
to assist SIDS in developing their national capacity to 
exploit fisheries resources must also be recognized and 
commended.
In our part of the Pacific, we have taken the lead 
in  preserving  healthy  fish  stocks  and  protecting  our 
environment.  We  have  created  innovative  tools  to 
keep our stocks at a level producing at least maximum 
sustainable  yield  based  on  the  best  available  science. 
We encourage our partners to join us in that endeavour. 
The  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement  are  taking  that 
responsible approach, and we encourage other regions 
of the world to follow suit.
In  2014,  the  Third  International  Conference  on 
SIDS will be held in our Pacific island neighbour, the 
Independent State of Samoa. Micronesia looks forward 
to discussions on how to further address the challenges 
faced  by  small  island  developing  States,  including  in 
the area of conservation and sustainable use of ocean 
resources.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  emphasize  that  we  are 
all  responsible  for  the  future  health  of  our  oceans. 
Engaging actively in the sustainable use, management 
and  conservation  of  the  world’s  oceans  is  not  just  a 
practical, but also a moral obligation that we all need 
to fulfil. 
Mr.  Shihab  (Maldives):  I  am  delighted  to  be 
making this statement today on behalf of the delegation 
of Maldives under agenda item 75, “Oceans and the law 
of the sea”. At the outset, I would like to express our 
appreciation to the Division for Ocean Affairs and the 
A/67/PV.52
Law of the Sea for its continued support and dedicated 
work on oceans issues.
The  Maldives  would  first  like  to  begin  by  taking 
note  of  this  year’s  debate  on  this  agenda  item,  which 
coincides with the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the twentieth anniversary 
of the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development. These two anniversaries remind us of the 
importance of emphasizing the linkage between those 
two fields, as well as the need to stress the importance 
of conservation and the sustainable use of the oceans.
The  Maldives, 
like  many  other  small 
island 
developing  States,  is  a  coastal  State  whose  economy 
depends on its marine resources. Given that tourism and 
fisheries remain our two biggest industries, preserving 
our  oceans  constitutes  the  basis  for  our  country’s 
economic, social and environmental development. We 
are pleased that the section on the oceans and seas of 
the outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex) of the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(Rio+20) took note of the importance of oceans and the 
legal framework provided by UNCLOS. The provisions 
on sustainable tourism and the protection of coral reefs 
are  particularly  welcome,  as  the  Maldives  continues 
to  fight  the  effects  of  anthropogenic  climate  change, 
which  include  sea-level  rise,  coastal  erosion,  ocean 
acidification  and  coral  bleaching.  We  remain  deeply 
concerned  about  overfishing;  illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  fishing;  discards,  by-catch  and  perverse 
Government subsidies; ineffective fisheries governance; 
overcapacity and biodiversity loss.
in 
initiative, 
launched  on  12  August 
The  Maldives  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
ocean 
the 
Republic of Korea, to deliver oceans-related mandates 
consistent  with  Rio’s  outcome  document  in  a  more 
coherent  and  effective  manner.  We  hope  that  this 
initiative will create a platform for all stakeholders at 
the national and international levels to collaborate and 
accelerate progress in the achievement of our common 
goals.  Preserving  the  oceans  through  protection  and 
sustainable use is vital to the well-being of our future 
generations.
The  Maldives  is  deeply  concerned  that  current 
international efforts are not enough to meet the target 
of restoring fish stocks to their maximum sustainable 
yields  by  2015,  including  the  reversal  of  biodiversity 
loss  in  the  oceans  and  the  elimination  of  destructive 
fishing  practices  decided  in  the  World  Summit  on 
12-64324
19
A/67/PV.52
Sustainable  Development.  The  world  has  missed  the 
2010  target  to  achieve  a  significant  reduction  of  the 
current rate of biodiversity loss at the global, regional 
and national levels. Current trends show that the loss of 
species will continue throughout this century, with an 
increasing  risk  of  dramatic  shifts  in  ecosystems.  The 
Maldives  therefore  calls  upon  all  Member  States  to 
renew their political commitment to finding an urgent 
solution to biodiversity loss.
In  that  regard,  Maldives  declared  Baa  Atoll  a 
UNESCO  biosphere  reserve  on  28  June  2011.  The 
designation of Baa Atoll as a biosphere reserve signals 
the commitment of the people to managing it sustainably 
by  achieving  the  three  functions  of  the  biosphere 
reserve:  conservation,  sustainable  development  and 
learning. In addition, President Waheed announced at 
Rio+20 that we will make the whole of the Maldives a 
biosphere reserve by 2017. The initial work needed to 
achieve that ambitious goal is ongoing.
The  Maldives  believes  that  there  is  a  need  for 
further commitment on the part of States to enforcing 
regional  agreements  on  the  management  of  ocean 
resources.  This  could  provide  capacity  to  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations  and  make  them 
better equipped to ensure the sustainable management 
of  our  oceans.  Given  the  strategies  contained  in  the 
Oceans Compact, we are keen to see results that display 
an  increase  in  the  sustainable  management  of  ocean 
resources  and  a  general  improvement  in  the  health  of 
our oceans.
We  take  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
contained  in  document  A/67/79,  focusing  on  the 
importance  of  marine  renewable  energy.  The  report 
stresses  the  fact  that  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS) are well placed to benefit from ocean thermal 
energy  conversion  and  focuses  on  the  fact  that  there 
has been a requirement for the development of marine 
renewable energy since the United Nations Conference 
on Environment and Development, held in Rio in 1992. 
The  call  for  the  development  of  renewable  energy 
alternatives is, indeed, a viable option to escape climate 
change  and  rising  oil  prices  and  answers  increasing 
energy demands. Unfortunately, SIDS like the Maldives 
do not have sufficient resources to ensure a complete 
transition  to  a  green  economy  and  therefore  remain 
in  dire  need  of  outside  investment  to  develop  those 
renewable  energy  options,  which    could  sustain  the 
greening of our economy. For this reason, we reiterate 
our  urgent  call  for  assistance  in  the  development  of 
marine renewable energy.
In conclusion, the protection and sustainable use of 
marine resources for SIDS like the Maldives represent 
a key part of our sustainable development. It is by now 
a  well-recognized  fact  that  oceans  play  a  part  in  the 
economy of every State across the globe. It is therefore 
inexcusable  for  any  State  to  ignore  its  duty  to  ensure 
the protection of these resources and their sustainable 
use for the benefit of our future generations.
Ms. Flores (Honduras) (spoke in Spanish): We are 
extremely pleased to participate in this important debate 
devoted  to  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  especially 
as  we  consider  the  adoption  of  two  important  draft 
resolutions  on  the  subject  (A/67/L.21  and  A/67/L.22). 
My  delegation  also  wishes  to  express  its  satisfaction 
with regard to the ceremony that took place yesterday to 
commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, of which we are a party. We underscore 
importance  of  the  Agreement  for  the  Implementation 
of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to 
the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish 
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, which since 
1995 has maintained the regime for their conservation 
and sustainable development.
Honduras  confirms  its  support  for  the  draft 
resolutions  to  be  adopted  today.  In  that  regard,  and 
wishing to contribute to the conservation of our species, 
we recall that in 2011 we declared our national waters 
to be a sanctuary for the protection of the shark species. 
With regard to the United Nations Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  with  its  164  States  parties  and  a 
constantly developing normative system, we highlight 
that its provisions are implemented with the assistance 
of  several  organs,  including  the  International  Seabed 
Authority, which allows States parties to organize and 
control  activities  related  to  the  mineral  resources  of 
the  international  seabed;  the  International  Tribunal 
for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  Hamburg,  which  resolves 
disputes  over  the  interpretation  or  implementation  of 
the Convention; and the Commission on the Limits of 
the Continental Shelf, which contributes to establishing 
the outer limits of the continental shelf where that part 
of the submerged land of the territory of a coastal State 
extends  to  200  nautical  miles  from  its  coastline.  The 
Convention,  known  as  the  constitution  of  the  oceans, 
20 
12-64324
establishes  the  seabed  and  the  ocean  floor  as  the 
common heritage of mankind. 
In  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
on  these  issues  (A/67/79  and  A/67/315),  I  wish  to 
recall  his  important  message  during  the  first  official 
celebration of World Oceans Day, on 8 June 2009. “Our 
oceans, our responsibility” emphasizes our individual 
and collective duty to protect the marine environment 
and  carefully  manage  its  resources.  Safe,  healthy  and 
productive seas and oceans are integral to human well-
being, economic security and sustainable development. 
In  that  connection,  the  world’s  peace  and  security 
among  nations  and,  of  course,  among  coastal  States 
are vital to the social and economic development of our 
peoples. Everything that contributes to the development 
and promotion of trust among neighbouring countries 
and  peoples  undoubtedly  contributes  to  maintaining 
the peace that we so desire. For us, as founding States 
Members of the United Nations, the full implementation 
of the international legal norms on oceans is reflected 
in the judgments of the International Court of Justice. 
We  peace-loving  States  turn  unreservedly  to  those 
international  courts 
resolve  our  differences. 
Respectful of their binding decisions, we accept them 
without hesitation.
to 
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  at  the 
Managua summit on 4 December, following a regional 
presidential meeting among the three States that have 
a shared interest in the Gulf of Fonseca — Honduras, 
El  Salvador  and  Nicaragua  —  we  agreed  to  establish 
a trilateral commission for the purpose of maintaining 
the  Gulf  of  Fonseca  as  a  zone  of  peace,  sustainable 
development  and  security.  The  commission  will  be 
tasked  with  the  following  functions:  reviewing  the 
status  of  implementation  of  the  1992  Judgment  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  the  case  of  El 
Salvador v. Honduras; updating and implementation of 
the protocol on the role of naval forces in the Gulf of 
Fonseca,  in  order  to  guarantee  peace  and  tranquillity 
in  that  zone;  and  accelerating  the  execution  of  the 
integral development strategy for the Gulf of Fonseca, 
presenting  a  portfolio  of  projects  in  the  areas  of 
sustainable  economic  development,  environment  and 
security,  with  the  aim  of  mobilizing  the  resources 
necessary for their implementation. The Ministries of 
Foreign Affairs of the respective countries shall preside 
over the trinational commission and shall jointly agree 
on the composition of its working groups and present a 
preliminary report to the Presidents within 90 days. The 
three States declared that the international community 
A/67/PV.52
shall  be  informed  that  all  matters  relating  to  the 
Gulf  of  Fonseca  shall  be  addressed  by  the  trinational 
commission. The declaration was signed by the heads 
of State of Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua.
One of the major challenges we face in the twenty-
first century is protecting the oceans, which are a source 
of  life.  Climate  change,  pollution,  destructive  fishing 
practices,  ocean  acidification  and  the  extraction  of 
marine species, which cause biodiversity loss and hurt 
the ecosystem, all affect the survival and the well-being 
of our planet. A world that wishes to live in harmony 
must  pool  its  efforts  and  coordinate  its  political  will 
in  order  to  guarantee  that  its  resources  will  be  used 
in  the  framework  of  sustainable  and  balanced  ocean 
development that, in meeting present and future needs, 
husbands  the  wealth  of  the  sea  as  a  legacy  of  future 
generations.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  51/6  of  24  October  1996,  I  now  call  on 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  International  Seabed 
Authority.
Mr.  Odunton  (International  Seabed  Authority): 
Allow me first of all to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-seventh 
session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  I  have  every 
confidence in his ability to guide the Assembly to its 
successful conclusion. 
I wish to refer to the two draft resolutions before 
the General Assembly (A/66/L.21 and A/66/L.22) and 
express  my  appreciation  to  Member  States  for  their 
references  to  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed 
Authority  contained  in  draft  resolution  A/67/L.21, 
especially under part VI, which is entitled “The Area”. 
I also express appreciation for the very comprehensive 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/67/79),  which  as 
always  provides  detailed  background  material  for  our 
consideration.  I  wish  to  commend  the  Division  for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for its continued 
outstanding  efforts  in  the  preparation  of  this  report 
over the years. 
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.21  welcomes  two  major 
achievements  of  the  Authority  during  2012.  The  first 
is the adoption by the Council at the eighteenth session 
of  the  Authority  of  the  regulations  for  prospecting 
and  exploration  for  cobalt-rich  ferromanganese  crusts 
in the Area. I am pleased to say that after many years 
of  debate  and  negotiation,  those  regulations  were 
adopted by consensus. The adoption of the regulations 
12-64324
21
A/67/PV.52
completes  the  Authority’s  regulatory  code  governing 
prospecting  and  exploration  for  the  three  main  types 
of mineral resources found in the Area. I believe that it 
is a significant achievement. Since the adoption of the 
regulations, two applications for exploration for cobalt-
rich  ferromanganese  crusts  have  already  been  filed. 
They  will  be  considered  by  the  Legal  and  Technical 
Commission  at  its  meeting  in  February  2013  and 
subsequently  by  the  Council  at  its  nineteenth  session 
in July 2013.
The second major achievement, also referred to in 
paragraph 48 of the draft resolution, was the decision by 
the Council of the Authority to recognize the designation 
of  nine  representative  areas  in  the  nodule-bearing 
province  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  covering  1.6  million 
square  miles  as  areas  of  particular  environmental 
interest where no activity should take place.
The  draft  resolution  also  refers  to  the  rapid 
increase  in  exploration  activity  that  has  taken  place 
in  the  past  two  years.  In  2012,  five  new  applications 
for  exploration  contracts  were  approved  by 
the 
Council  of  the  Authority,  bringing  the  total  number 
of  active  exploration  contracts  in  the  Area  to  17.  The 
applications approved in 2012 included applications by 
State  and  private-sector  enterprises  sponsored  by  the 
following States parties: Belgium, France, Kiribati, the 
Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom. I wish to 
congratulate  those  States  and  their  sponsored  entities 
on  their  decision  to  join  the  growing  group  of  States 
with active exploration interests in the seabed beyond 
national  jurisdiction  and  to  foster  the  development  of 
the common heritage of humankind. 
As  envisaged  by  the  framers  of  the  Convention, 
contractors  with  the  Authority  include  States  parties, 
State  enterprises  sponsored  by  States  parties  and 
private-sector  interests  sponsored  by  States  parties. 
Sponsoring  States  include  not  only  the  developed 
industrialized  States  but  also  developing  States, 
taking  advantage  of  the  provisions  of  Part  XI  that 
were  designed  to  allow  them  equal  access  to  seabed 
resources.  This  is  an  important  achievement  that 
demonstrates that the system set out in the Convention 
and in 1994 Implementation Agreement work.
In  2011,  the  Authority  approved  the  first-ever 
contracts  for  exploration  for  polymetallic  sulfides 
in  the  Area.  Contracts  were  awarded  to  entities 
sponsored  by  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the 
Russian  Federation.  I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that,  in  Moscow  on  30  October,  I  had  the  honour  to 
sign  a  15-year  exploration  contract  for  polymetallic 
sulfides  exploration  in  the  Area  with  the  Ministry 
of  Natural  Resources  and  the  Environment  of  the 
Russian  Federation.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to congratulate the Government and the people of the 
Russian Federation on that important achievement.
With  the  increased  pace  of  activity  in  the  Area, 
much  work  lies  ahead  for  the  Authority  in  order  for 
it to succeed in its task of managing the resources of 
the Area for the benefit of humankind as a whole. That 
includes  the  task  of  developing  fair  and  reasonable 
financial terms for the future exploitation of minerals. 
It  is  thus  more  important  than  ever  that  all  States 
parties attend the annual meetings of the Assembly and 
Council and participate fully in all aspects of the work 
of the Authority. I therefore look forward to the widest 
possible participation by all members in the nineteenth 
session of the Authority in July 2013.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  54/195,  of  17  December  1999,  I 
now call on the observer for the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature. 
Mr.  Cohen 
(International  Union 
the 
Conservation  of  Nature):  The  International  Union  for 
Conservation  of  Nature  (IUCN)  welcomes  the  draft 
resolutions  put  forward  for  the  General  Assembly’s 
consideration this year (A/67/L.21 and A/67/L.22). 
for 
to  sustainable  development  and 
We  were  encouraged  that  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  and  high-level  representatives,  meeting 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro  from  20  to  22  June,  with  the  full 
participation  of  civil  society,  renewed  a  global 
commitment 
to 
ensuring  the  promotion  of  an  economically,  socially 
and  environmentally  sustainable  future  for  the  planet 
and  for  present  and  future  generations.  The  outcome 
document,  entitled  “The  future  we  want”,  adopted 
by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  and  high-level 
representatives  in  Rio  and  subsequently  endorsed 
by  the  General  Assembly  through  resolution  66/288, 
includes  many  important  paragraphs  with  respect  to 
the  world’s  oceans.  It  notes  that  oceans  and  coastal 
areas  form  an  integrated  and  essential  component  of 
the Earth’s ecosystem. Also noted is the need to ensure 
the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans and 
seas and of their resources for sustainable development, 
including 
to  poverty 
eradication, sustained economic growth, food security 
and creation of sustainable livelihoods and decent work, 
while at the same time protecting biodiversity and the 
their  contributions 
through 
22 
12-64324
marine  environment  and  addressing  the  impacts  of 
climate change. 
Leaders  committed  to  protecting  and  restoring 
the  health,  productivity  and  resilience  of  oceans  and 
marine  ecosystems,  maintaining  their  biodiversity, 
enabling  their  conservation  and  sustainable  use  for 
present and future generations, and effectively applying 
an ecosystem approach and a precautionary approach in 
the management of oceans. The importance of capacity-
building to ensure that developing countries are able to 
benefit from the conservation and sustainable use of the 
oceans was recognized. 
IUCN  members  met  this  year  at  the  World 
Conservation  Congress  in  Jeju,  Republic  of  Korea, 
from  6  to  15  September  and  adopted  resolutions  and 
recommendations to guide the governance of the Union 
for  the  next  four  years.  Under  the  Jeju  declaration, 
entitled “Nature+: Towards a New Era of Conservation, 
Sustainability  and  Nature-based  Solutions”,  it  was 
noted  that  the  conservation  of  biological  diversity  is 
vitally important to human life. Nature is a major part 
of the solution to some of our most pressing challenges 
in climate change, food security, economic and social 
development  and  sustainable  energy.  Nature-based 
solutions  build  upon  the  proven  contribution  of  well-
managed  and  diverse  ecosystems  to  enhance  human 
resilience  and 
to  provide  additional  development 
opportunities  for  all.  At  Jeju,  our  members  adopted 
a  number  of  resolutions  with  respect  to  oceans, 
their  conservation,  management  and  equitable  and 
sustainable use. 
In  “The  future  we  want”,  the  importance  of  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  was  explicitly 
recognized.  Leaders  and  Governments  committed  to 
building  on  work  done  under  the  auspices  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to  study 
issues relating to the conservation and sustainable use 
of marine biological diversity beyond areas of national 
jurisdiction,  and  to  addressing  the  issue  on  an  urgent 
basis  before  the  end  of  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  including  by  taking  a  decision  on 
the  development  of  an  international  instrument  under 
the Convention. 
In  Jeju,  our  Members  called  on  States 
to 
address  ocean  governance  gaps  in  the  protection 
and  conservation  of  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction through the negotiation of a new 
implementing  agreement  for  the  protection  of  high-
A/67/PV.52
seas  biodiversity.  Such  an  agreement  could  identify, 
designate  and  effectively  manage  a  global  network 
of  fully  comprehensive,  adequate  and  representative 
high-seas  marine  protected  areas,  including  reserves 
and other effective spatial management areas. It could 
require  comprehensive  prior  environmental  impact 
assessments and strategic environmental assessments, 
together  with  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  marine 
environment.  It  could  ensure  the  provision  of,  access 
to and dissemination of information and transparency 
in  decision-making  processes.  It  could  consider  the 
question of the sharing of benefits derived from marine 
genetic resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction 
and require application of the precautionary approach, 
as  set  out  in  principle  15  of  the  Rio  Declaration  on 
Environment  and  Development,  and  the  ecosystem 
approach in decision-making and management. It could 
call for the effective monitoring, control, surveillance 
and compliance and enforcement measures that ought to 
be implemented to support the long-term conservation 
and sustainable use of high seas biodiversity.
In “The future we want”, it is noted with concern 
that  the  health  of  oceans  and  marine  biodiversity  are 
negatively  affected  by  marine  pollution,  including 
marine  debris,  especially  plastics,  and  by  persistent 
organic  pollutants,  heavy  metals  and  nitrogen-based 
compounds, from a number of marine and land-based 
sources. Leaders committed to taking action to achieve 
significant  reductions  in  marine  debris  in  order  to 
prevent  harm  to  the  coastal  and  marine  environment 
by 2025. 
My delegation hopes that significant reductions can 
be achieved much earlier in order to protect the marine 
environment and its biodiversity. In that regard, I note 
that the Global Partnership for Oceans, established by 
the World Bank and in which IUCN is a partner, will 
be working to reduce pollution to levels not detrimental 
to  ecosystem  function  and  biodiversity,  and  will  be 
supporting the implementation of the global programme 
of action to reduce pollution, particularly from marine 
litter, waste water and excess nutrients.
In  “The  future  we  want”,  concern  is  expressed 
about  the  impacts  of  ocean  acidification  and  climate 
change  on  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems  and 
resources.  The  document  reiterates  the  need  to  work 
collectively  to  prevent  further  ocean  acidification,  to 
enhance  the  resilience  of  marine  ecosystems  and  of 
communities  whose  livelihoods  depend  on  them,  and 
to  support  marine  scientific  research,  monitoring  and 
12-64324
23
A/67/PV.52
fisheries 
observation  of  ocean  acidification  and  its  effects  on 
particularly vulnerable ecosystems. In that regard, my 
delegation stresses the importance of protecting coral 
reefs and natural blue carbon sinks, such as mangroves, 
sea  grasses  and  salt  marshes,  through  the  careful 
application to coastal and marine areas of ecosystem-
based  management,  the  creation  of  resilient  networks 
of marine protected areas and effective marine spatial 
planning.  We  welcome  discussion  during  the  United 
Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process 
next  year  of  the  impact  of  ocean  acidification  on  the 
marine environment, including socioeconomic impacts. 
“The  future  we  want”  also  addresses  various 
important 
issues.  My  delegation  urges 
immediate  action  to  meet  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation  target  to  maintain  or  restore  fish 
stocks to levels that can produce maximum sustainable 
yield  by  2015.  To  do  so  —  or  even  to  approach  the 
target  —  will  require  immediate  action,  including 
by  reducing  or  suspending  fishing  catch  and  fishing 
effort  to  an  extent  commensurate  with  the  status  of 
the relevant fish stocks. We note the need to carefully 
manage by-catch, discards and other adverse ecosystem 
impacts from fisheries, including through the effective 
use of impact assessments. We note the need to protect 
vulnerable marine ecosystems from significant adverse 
impacts. All fishing should be subject to the collection 
and sharing of data, to allow for proper assessment of 
the effects of fishing effort on the marine environment 
and  for  the  provision  of  scientific  advice  for  future 
activities.  States  should  eliminate  subsidies 
that 
contribute  to  overcapacity  and  overfishing,  as  those 
activities are not sustainable.
regional 
to  conduct 
In  “The  future  we  want”,  leaders  recognize  the 
need  for  transparency  and  accountability  in  fisheries 
management  by 
fisheries  management 
organizations (RFMOs). Welcoming efforts undertaken 
by  RFMOs 
independent  performance 
reviews, my delegation urges all RFMOs to undertake 
such reviews and to make publicly available the results 
and  any  actions  taken  to  address  those  results.  The 
General Assembly may wish to consider the adequacy 
and outcomes of the reviews and to provide advice as to 
how they may be strengthened and improved.
In  “The  future  we  want”,  leaders  affirm  the 
importance  of  area-based  conservation  measures, 
including  marine  protected  areas.  Aichi  Biodiversity 
Target 11 states: 
“By 2020 ... 10 per cent of coastal and marine 
areas, especially areas of particular importance for 
biodiversity and ecosystem services, are conserved 
through  effectively  and  equitably  managed, 
ecologically  representative  and  well-connected 
systems of protected areas and other effective area-
based conservation measures.”
IUCN’s  members  at  Jeju  emphasized  the  importance 
of  achieving  that  Target,  through  the  establishment 
of  representative  networks  of  marine  protected  areas, 
ranging  from  no-take  reserves  to  multiple  use  zones, 
where  the  pressures  of  extractive  use  on  marine 
species  and  habitats  are  minimized,  consistent  with 
international  law,  including  customary  international 
law, as reflected in the Convention, and based on the best 
scientific information available. They also stressed the 
importance of developing other effective management 
and protection tools to complement those efforts in the 
oceans,  addressing  areas  within  and  beyond  national 
jurisdiction, as appropriate.
IUCN members in Jeju welcomed progress towards 
completion  of  the  first  global  integrated  assessment 
of  the  state  of  the  marine  environment  by  2014,  and 
welcomed  the  sharing  of  information,  data  and  best 
practices through that process.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard 
the 
last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  75  and  its 
sub-items (a) and (b).
The Assembly will now consider draft resolutions 
A/67/L.21 and A/67/L.22.
I  shall  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative 
who wishes to speak in explanation of vote before the 
voting. May I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
Ms.  Diaz  Mendoza  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  wishes 
to address the draft resolution contained in document 
A/67/L.21,  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  under 
agenda  item  75  (a),  which  is  before  the  General 
Assembly for consideration. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  recall  once  again 
that  Venezuela  is  not  a  party  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  For 
this  reason,  the  norms  mentioned  in  that  instrument, 
24 
12-64324
those 
including 
that  could  be  characterized  as 
customary  law,  are  not  applicable,  except  for  those 
that  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  recognizes 
expressly. We reiterate that Venezuela is not a party to 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS)  since  it  cannot  contravene  fundamental 
principles and basic rights to which it adheres and that 
remain valid and relevant to this day. 
Venezuela has fulfilled its international obligations 
under  the  law  of  the  sea.  It  has  advocated  the 
comprehensive development of the law of the sea with 
a view to ensuring justice and has emphasized that all 
negotiations  related  to  that  law  should  reflect  criteria 
and  principles  related  to  sustainable  development  and 
the  preservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  marine 
environment  and  its  resources  for  future  generations. 
In  that  spirit,  my  delegation  has  cooperated  with 
efforts to promote coordination on matters pertaining 
to  the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  in  accordance 
with international law, and in that regard participated 
constructively in consultations on the draft resolution. 
However, and despite the efforts and the flexibility 
shown by some delegations to ensure that the text of the 
draft resolution would reflect the concerns and interests 
of all Member States and allow for the legal freedom 
of  States  not  parties  to  UNCLOS,  the  text  produced 
during  the  recently  concluded  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process does not reflect the consensus of 
all Member States on issues pertaining to oceans and 
the law of the sea. In particular, it was not possible to 
reflect in the text those issues that could affect sensitive 
interests of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
Therefore, in this statement my delegation ratifies 
its historical position on the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea, which it has expressed in various 
international  forums,  that  this  instrument  should  not 
be  considered  the  sole  legal  framework  governing  all 
activities related to oceans and seas, and that it cannot 
be  characterized  as  a  universal  instrument.  Thus, 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  believes  that, 
although  the  text  before  us  contains  elements  that  we 
are able to endorse, it also contains elements that led my 
country to withhold support from the outcome document 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20), 
including  matters  relating  to  marine  biodiversity  that 
are reflected in section XI, and particularly paragraphs 
181 and 183, of the draft resolution. 
A/67/PV.52
to 
the 
sustainable 
resources 
In  this  regard,  my  country  attaches  the  highest 
exploitation  of 
importance 
biodiversity-related 
national 
jurisdiction being governed by a distinct international 
instrument  that  is  separate  from  UNCLOS  and  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity.  My  delegation 
expresses its hope that future decisions on the subject, 
including the negotiation of a multilateral instrument, 
will be guided by a spirit of inclusion. 
beyond 
The  delegation  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela reiterates the arguments put forward in the 
most  recent  Consultative  Process,  which  are  closely 
related  to  the  reasons  that  prevented  and  continue 
to  prevent  my  country  from  being  a  party  to  the 
Convention. In this regard, our lack of objection to the 
texts adopted at Rio+20 and other aspects of the draft 
resolution cannot be interpreted as a change of position 
on the part of my country towards UNCLOS, including, 
inter alia, its relevance with regard to the definition of 
a possible legal regime applicable to marine resources 
beyond national jurisdiction. 
Finally,  the  lack  of  consensus  on  various  issues 
addressed  in  the  draft  resolution,  not  to  mention 
practices that are contrary to jurisprudence, highlight 
the need to review any future updating of the terms of 
the  Convention,  including  a  review  of  those  matters 
that prevent this instrument from being truly universal. 
There are new situations for it to address. The forced 
extension  of 
the  principles,  norms,  criteria  and 
procedures  of  UNCLOS  has  proved  at  the  very  least 
to  be  insufficient,  if  not  counterproductive.  This  has 
affected the development of a regime that should address 
the most important contemporary issues relating to the 
oceans and seas in an inclusive and equitable manner. 
In  view  of  all  of  this,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela will abstain in the voting.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
We turn first to draft resolution A/67/L.21, entitled 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I would like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/67/L.21,  the  following  countries  have 
12-64324
25
A/67/PV.52
become  sponsors:  Argentina,  Barbados,  Belgium, 
Cameroon,  Chile,  Greece,  Ecuador,  Honduras, 
Indonesia,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar, 
Malaysia,  Malta,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia, 
Montenegro,  the  Philippines,  Portugal,  the  Republic 
of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, Slovenia, South Africa, 
Sweden,  Tonga,  Ukraine  and  the  United  States  of 
America. 
The Acting President: A recorded  vote has  been 
requested. 
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina 
Faso, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland, 
France,  Germany,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guyana, 
Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall 
Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated 
States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nauru, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Palau, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  United  States  of  America,  Uruguay, 
Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia
the 
Against:
Turkey
26 
Abstaining:
Colombia,  Dominican  Republic,  El  Salvador, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.21  was  adopted  by  125 
votes to 1, with 4 abstentions (resolution 67/78).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Greece advised the 
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  Acting  President:  We  now  turn  to  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.22,  entitled  “Sustainable  fisheries, 
including 
the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, and related instruments ”. 
the  1995  Agreement  for 
through 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I would like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/67/L.22,  the  following  countries  have 
become 
sponsors:  Barbados,  Belgium,  Canada, 
Greece,  Honduras,  Madagascar,  the  Federated  States 
of  Micronesia,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  the  Philippines, 
Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Samoa,  Slovenia, 
Tonga, Ukraine and the United States of America. 
resolution  A/67/L.22  was 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.22?
adopted 
Draft 
(resolution 67/79).
The Acting President: I shall now give the floor  to 
those representatives who wish to speak in explanation 
of vote. May I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Diaz  Mendoza  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela would like to comment 
on  resolution  67/79,  which  the  General  Assembly  has 
just adopted under agenda item 75 (b), entitled “Oceans 
and the law of the sea: Sustainable fisheries, including 
through  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation 
of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to 
the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish 
12-64324
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, and related 
instruments”.
The topic of sustainable fisheries is a priority for my 
delegation and represents a sector of great importance. 
That is why significant initiatives have been undertaken 
to  promote  and 
the 
conservation,  protection  and  management  of  marine 
biological  resources  within  our  national  legislative 
framework,  which  seeks  to  harmonize  the  legal  order 
with the criteria applied in this sphere by the countries 
of the region.
implement  programmes  for 
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is not party 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea (UNCLOS), including the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks. The standards of those international instruments 
are not applicable in the national context, except where 
expressly  recognized  by  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela or where they may be so in the future.
However, for the sake of consensus, my delegation 
did  not  oppose  the  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries 
adopted  today.  The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 
nonetheless reaffirms its established position regarding 
UNCLOS and related agreements, wherefore we express 
our reservations on the content of the resolution.
Mr.  Martinsen  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  explanation  of  vote  refers  to  resolution  67/79,  on 
sustainable  fisheries.  While  Argentina  joined  in  the 
consensus  adoption  of  the  resolution,  I  wish  to  state 
once  again  that  none  of  the  recommendations  in  the 
text can be interpreted as meaning that the provisions 
of  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the 
Provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  can  be 
considered as binding on States that have not explicitly 
expressed their consent to fulfilling obligations under 
the Agreement.
The  resolution  we  have  just  adopted  contains 
paragraphs  relating  to  the  implementation  of  the 
the  Review  Conference  on 
recommendations  of 
the  Agreement.  Argentina 
those 
recommendations  cannot  be  considered  applicable, 
even as recommendations, to States that are not parties 
reiterates 
that 
A/67/PV.52
to  the  Agreement.  This  is  particularly  relevant  in  the 
case of States, including Argentina, that disassociated 
themselves from those recommendations. As it did at the 
sixty-sixth  session,  therefore,  Argentina  disassociates 
itself from the consensus reached by the Assembly with 
regard to the paragraphs of the resolution referring to 
the recommendations of the Review Conference on the 
1995 Agreement.
At  the  same  time,  Argentina  wishes  to  point  out 
that  current  international  law  allows  neither  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations  or  arrangements 
nor  their  member  States  to  adopt  any  measure  with 
respect  to  vessels  whose  flag  States  are  not  members 
of  such  organizations  or  arrangements  or  have  not 
expressly  consented 
that  such  measures  may  be 
applied to the vessels flying their flag. Nothing in the 
resolutions of the General Assembly, including that just 
adopted, can be interpreted as in any way contrary to 
that conclusion.
the  resolutions  of 
the  General  Assembly, 
In addition, conservation measures, the pursuit of 
scientific research, or any other activity recommended 
in 
in 
particular  resolution  61/105,  are  to  be  implemented 
within  the  irreplaceable  framework  of  international 
law  of  the  sea  already  in  force,  as  reflected  in  the 
Convention, including its article 77 and Part XIII. The 
implementation  of  such  resolutions  cannot  therefore 
be  claimed  as  an  alleged  justification  for  ignoring  or 
denying  the  rights  established  under  the  Convention, 
and  nothing  in  the  resolution  adopted  today  or  others 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  is  of  a  nature  to 
affect the sovereign rights of coastal States over their 
continental  shelf  or  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  by 
coastal States with regard to their continental shelf, in 
accordance with international law.
Paragraph  137  of  the  resolution  we  have  just 
adopted contains an extremely relevant reminder of that 
concept, as reflected in resolution 64/72 and subsequent 
resolutions. In that vein, paragraph 138 recognizes the 
adoption  by  coastal  States,  including  Argentina,  of 
measures to address the impacts of bottom fishing on 
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  in  the  whole  extent  of 
their continental shelf as well as their efforts to ensure 
compliance with those measures.
Finally,  we  reiterate  that  the  growing  differences 
concerning the contents of the resolution on sustainable 
fisheries  seriously  compromise  the  possibility  of  its 
consensus adoption in the future.
12-64324
27
A/67/PV.52
Mr.  Şahinol  (Turkey):  Turkey  voted  against 
resolution  67/78,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea”  under  agenda  item  75  (a).  I  would  like  to  recall 
that the reasons that have prevented Turkey from being 
a party to the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea remain valid. Turkey supports international 
efforts to establish a regime of the sea that is based on 
the principle of equity and acceptable to all States. 
However,  in  our  opinion  the  Convention  does  not 
provide sufficient safeguards for special geographical 
situations  and,  as  a  consequence,  does  not  take  into 
consideration  conflicting  interests  and  sensitivities 
arising  from  special  circumstances.  Furthermore, 
the  Convention  does  not  allow  States  to  register 
reservations to its articles. Although we agree with the 
Convention  in  its  general  intent  and  with  most  of  its 
provisions, we are unable to become a party to it owing 
to those prominent shortcomings. That being the case, 
we  cannot  support  a  resolution  that  calls  on  States  to 
become  parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  to  harmonize  their  national 
legislation with its provisions.
As  for  resolution  67/79  on  sustainable  fisheries, 
adopted  under  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  75,  I 
would  like  to  state  that  Turkey  is  committed  to  the 
conservation,  management  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine living resources, and attaches great importance 
to  regional  cooperation  to  that  end.  In  that  context, 
Turkey supported the resolution; however, we dissociate 
ourselves  from  references  made  in  the  resolution  to 
international instruments to which Turkey is not a party. 
Those references should therefore not be interpreted as 
representing any change in Turkey’s legal position with 
regard to those instruments.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  75  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b)?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
28 
12-64324
