United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
23rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 11 October 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.23
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda items 115 and 116
Agenda item 134 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/67/502)
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66 
of the rules of procedure, may I take it that the General 
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Fifth 
Committee  (A/67/502)  that  is  before  the  Assembly 
today?
It was so decided.
The President: Before we begin to take action on 
the recommendation contained in the report of the Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same 
manner as was done in the Fifth Committee.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Fifth Committee adopted 
the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Scale  of  assessments 
for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter” 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 67/2).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 134.
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly
The  President:  I  welcome  this  opportunity  to 
address  the  Assembly  at  the  start  of  the  debate  on 
how to further strengthen the authority of the General 
Assembly. This is the only body in which all countries 
come together as sovereign equals to advance the aims 
of the Charter of the United Nations. To be able to meet 
the expectations of humankind, we must continue with 
the process of revitalizing and modernizing it.
The topic we are focusing on today is not a new one. 
As early as in 1948, the General Assembly recognized 
for  the  first  time  the  need  to  adapt  to  changing 
circumstances. Near the end of the third session — in 
fact, one day after the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights  was  adopted —  an  additional  item  was  placed 
on the agenda of the plenary. It called for the creation 
of  an  ad  hoc  committee  to  consider  methods  and 
procedures which would enable the General Assembly 
to  discharge 
its  functions  more  effectively  and 
expeditiously.  Decades  later,  we  continue  to  try  to 
make headway in what has always been understood as 
a work in progress.
Let  me  begin  by 
thanking  Mr.  Alexander 
Lomaia,  Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia,  and 
Mrs. Susan Waffa-Ogoo, Permanent Representative of 
the Gambia, for leading the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-54292 (E)
*1254292*
A/67/PV.23
the Revitalization of the General Assembly during the 
sixty-sixth  session.  Its  report,  contained  in  document 
A/66/891,  together  with  resolution  66/294,  adopted  by 
consensus  on  the  final  day  of  that  session,  will  guide 
our deliberations over the coming year.
For  the  first  time,  the  two  agenda  items  being 
discussed  today  have  been  scheduled  to  immediately 
follow  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Organization.  This  was  done  to  highlight  their 
importance  for  the  General  Assembly.  I  believe  it  is 
critical  for  Member  States  to  consistently  implement 
that  which  has  already  been  agreed  in  the  Hall.  That 
should  be  a  core  principle  of  effective  multilateralism 
in the twenty-first century.
During this session, the Ad Hoc Working Group is 
mandated to review the inventory of General Assembly 
resolutions  on  revitalization,  and  to  issue  an  updated 
version  in  its  report  to  the  plenary.  It  is  my  sincere 
hope  that  the  findings  of  the  review  will  suggest 
that  we  are  moving  in  the  right  direction.  So  far,  we 
have  made  some  progress  in  a  number  of  areas  and, 
as  President,  I  will  work  tirelessly  to  ensure  that  the 
process  is  further  enhanced.  I  have  already  begun  to 
build  closer  relationships  with  the  other  main  bodies 
of the United Nations. I have started to exchange views 
with  the  Secretary-General,  the  Presidents  of  the 
Security  Council  and  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
and  the  Heads  of  various  United  Nations  entities  and 
specialized agencies, as well as with the Chairs of the 
Main  Committees.  Yesterday,  in  fact,  I  met  with  this 
last  group.  I  thanked  those  in  attendance  for  their 
commitment  to  our  shared  goals,  and  reiterated  my 
belief  that  their  deliberations  are  critical  to  advancing 
the plenary’s agenda.
The increasing number of informal thematic debates 
and  high-level  events  has  contributed  to  the  relevance 
of this body in addressing a growing number of global 
issues. As mandated by resolution 66/294, I will consult 
with Member States on the topics to be discussed, with 
a  view  to  achieving  results-oriented  outcomes  at  the 
sixty-seventh session. As President, I will continue the 
tradition  established  by  my  predecessors  and  convene 
informal  meetings  of  the  plenary  before  and  after 
Group of 20 (G-20) preparatory meetings, as well as the 
annual Heads of State or Government Summit.
In my view, however, we should work on increasing 
the  complementarity  of  both  policies  and  actions 
between  the  United  Nations  and  key  international 
economic  players.  It  is  with  this  in  mind  that  I  have 
proposed to launch a process leading to the establishment 
of  an  effective  consultative  framework  between  the 
General  Assembly  and  international  financial  and 
trade  institutions,  as  well  as  groupings  such  as  the 
G-20.  I  believe  that  if  we  do  this  in  the  right  way,  the 
key  actors’  decisions  can  actually  help  strengthen and 
further revitalize the General Assembly.
The  issue  before  us  today  has  been  on  the 
General  Assembly’s  agenda  for  decades,  and  some 
breakthroughs have been made. But I believe that much 
more  needs  to  be  done.  Let  us  take  a  step  back  for  a 
moment  and  consider  the  overall  context  in  which  the 
process of revitalization is taking place. Whether in the 
political, economic or technological realm, the world is 
becoming increasingly volatile and unpredictable. The 
overall  scope  and  rapidity  of  the  transformations  we 
face  are  unprecedented  in  the  annals  of  history.  This 
global trend is likely to continue well into the future.
The speed of the changes taking place outside these 
walls is increasingly outpacing the tempo of the changes 
we  are  able  to  agree  upon  in  this  building.  To  retain 
the capacity to change the world for the better, we will 
need to find the strength to keep changing ourselves.I 
am  afraid  that  we  are  confronted  with  the  choice  of 
either  adapting  to  the  new  times,  or  simply  being  left 
behind  to  watch  the  gap  between  our  duties  and  our 
capabilities  widen  by  the  day.  I  am  not  advocating 
haste or revolution, but I am trying to instil a sense of 
urgency. 
I have tremendous faith in the United Nations. It is 
doubtless the greatest humanist project of the twentieth 
century,  and  I  firmly  believe  that  its  greatness  should 
extend well into the twenty-first. But that is not going 
to happen by default. A bold action is needed. It is up 
to  the  Member  States  —  and  to  the  Member  States 
only  —  to  propose  and  decide  how  to  move  forward. 
I  was  elected  to  serve  them,  to  serve  the  General 
Assembly,  and  I  pledge  my  unwavering  commitment 
to  its  endeavours.  I  believe  we  all  are  in  favour  of 
revitalizing and thereby strengthening the authority of 
the  Assembly.  Yet,  as  the  nineteenth-century  Scottish 
social  commentator  Thomas  Carlyle  succinctly  put 
it,  conviction  is  worthless  unless  it  is  converted  into 
conduct. 
So let us conduct ourselves with the courage of our 
convictions.  Let  us  revitalize  this  institution  so  that 
it  remains,  in  the  words  of  the  Charter,  a  centre  for 
harmonizing the actions of nations. 
2 
12-54292
I 
thank 
(Algeria): 
Mr.  Benmehidi 
you, 
Mr. President, for convening this meeting. On behalf of 
the members of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), I 
would like to thank you, Sir, for the level of priority you 
intend to dedicate to the issue of the revitalization of the 
General  Assembly  and  for  having  taken  the  initiative 
to start with that important topic immediately after the 
report of the Secretary-General (A/67/1). You can count 
on  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  to  further  convey  the 
message thereof. 
At the outset, allow me to express the gratitude of the 
members of the Non-Aligned Movement to Ambassador 
Susan  Waffa-Ogoo,  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  Gambia,  and  Ambassador  Alexander  Lomaia, 
Permanent Representative of Georgia, for their tireless 
efforts  and  excellent  work  in  co-chairing  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly during the sixty-sixth session.
NAM  welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution  66/294 
last  September,  by  which  the  Assembly  established 
the  Working  Group  to  discuss  the  issues  related  to 
the  Assembly’s  revitalization  during  the  sixty-seventh 
session,  and  to  continue,  in  particular,  to  build  on  the 
progress  achieved  at  past  Assembly  sessions  and  on 
previous  resolutions,  and  to  assess  the  status  of  their 
implementation.
That  assessment  and  a  clear  identification  of  the 
underlying  causes  behind  any  lack  of  implementation 
are  of  utmost  importance  if  we  are  to  progressively 
eliminate  the  constraints  that  continue  to  prevent  the 
process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  from 
realizing its full potential. In that regard, the Movement 
reaffirms  the  validity  and  relevance  of  its  principled 
positions  related  to  the  process  and  reiterates  its 
willingness to contribute effectively and constructively 
to  the  activities  of  the  Working  Group  with  a  view  to 
identifying ways and means to strengthen the role and 
authority of the Assembly.
We  underline  that  the  revitalization  process  is  of 
a  political  nature,  aimed  mainly  at  strengthening  the 
role  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  in  the  wider 
United  Nations  system.  The  Movement 
therefore 
reiterates  the  importance  of  the  revitalization  of  the 
Assembly as an item that deserves consideration on an 
equal footing with other important topics and welcomes 
the President’s decision y to address it at the beginning 
of the current session, so that we can make better use of 
today’s deliberations in ourwork throughout the session. 
A/67/PV.23
In our view, new ideas on how to explore further ways 
and means of reinvigorating the process in order to give 
it a higher profile warrant our consideration.
The Non-Aligned Movement emphasizes the need to 
fully respect the functions and powers of each principal 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the  General 
Assembly,  and  to  maintain  the  balance  among  the 
organs within their respective Charter-based functions 
and  powers.  In  that  regard,  the  Security  Council  must 
fully  observe  all  Charter  provisions  as  well  as  all 
Assembly  resolutions  which  clarify  its  relationship 
with the Assembly and other principal organs.
NAM  reiterates  its  concern,  raised  at  previous 
sessions, about the continuous attempt by the Security 
Council to encroach upon the powers and prerogatives 
of the General Assembly. Article 24 of the Charter does 
not endow the Security Council with the competence to 
address issues that fall within the functions and powers 
of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social 
Council.
In  the  same  vein,  NAM  calls  on  the  Security 
Council  to  submit  a  more  explanatory,  comprehensive 
and analytical annual report to the General Assembly, 
assessing  the  work  of  the  Council.  Furthermore,  the 
Movement  is  convinced  that  activities  of  the  Special 
Committee  on  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
on  the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the  Organization 
will  contribute  greatly 
the  whole  process  of 
revitalization and supports the initiative of the creation 
of  an  open-ended  working  group  to  study  the  proper 
implementation  of  the  Charter  with  respect  to  the 
functional relationship of its main organs, in particular 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Economic and Social Council, as well as the initiative, 
under  the  aforementioned  Special  Committee,  on 
strengthening 
the  Organization  and 
enhancing its effectiveness.
the  role  of 
to 
its 
We  reaffirm  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly, including in questions related to international 
peace  and  security,  and 
intergovernmental, 
inclusive  and  democratic  character,  which  have 
immensely  contributed 
the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  and  the  goals 
of the Organization. The Movement also reaffirms the 
intergovernmental nature of the United Nations as such 
and underscores the necessity to consult with Member 
States  on  initiatives  and  activities  undertaken  within 
the Organization and the right of all Member States to 
the  promotion  of 
to 
12-54292
3
A/67/PV.23
express their positions before the Assembly at any time 
they wish to do so.
The  General  Assembly,  as 
the  policymaking 
organ of the Organization, holds the authority and the 
essential  role  of  drafting  the  framework,  upholding 
the  principles  and  identifying  the  objectives  of  the 
wider United Nations system and its numerous organs, 
agencies and programmes. Furthermore, the Assembly 
should  remain  the  principal  organ  that  reviews  the 
work  of  all  its  subsidiary  organs  and  bodies.  It  should 
maintain  its  role  and  mandate  in  setting  the  priorities 
of the United Nations in considering all budgetary and 
administrative issues and reforms, including its absolute 
authority to allocate and reallocate financial and human 
resources,  and  in  the  appointment  of  senior  officials 
of  the  Secretariat,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
and  relevant  Assembly  resolutions.  In  that  regard,  the 
prerogatives  of  the  Assembly,  as  the  chief  oversight 
organ  of  the  Organization,  including  on  management 
and procurement for peacekeeping operations, must be 
respected.
While  expressing  its  readiness  to  continue  to 
support  all  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen  the  central 
role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  NAM 
wishes  to  state  that  it  will  oppose  any  approach  that 
seeks  to  undermine  or  minimize  the  achievements  of 
the Assembly, diminish its current role and functioning 
or raise questions about its relevance and credibility.
It  is  clear  that  while  the  prerogatives  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  have  not  changed, 
his role and activities have evolved over the past years, 
in  adapting  to  the  growing  activities,  conferences 
and  initiatives  of  the  Assembly,  performing  official 
protocol  functions,  representing  the  Assembly  around 
the  world,  and  making  the  Assembly’s  work  better 
known and more visible. Therefore, the activities of the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  have 
increased drastically over the years. The agenda of the 
Assembly and consequently that of its President include 
a tremendous number of issues. 
The  expansion  of  activities  of 
the  General 
Assembly — including the yearly adoption of more or 
less 300 resolutions and decisions, the establishment of 
working groups and facilitations that convene meetings 
and consultations throughout the year — has made the 
President’s presence and active participation necessary 
during  the  whole  session.  The  Assembly’s  workload 
is no longer limited to the main part of its session but 
rather covers the whole period from the opening of the 
session  in  September  to  its  closing.  This  tremendous 
and  increasing  activity  should  of  course  be  matched 
with the necessary resources, both human and financial.
NAM  recalls  in  this  regard  that  resolution  66/294 
requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals, in 
the context of the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium  2014-2015,  to  review  the  budget  allocations 
to the Office of the President of General Assembly, and 
emphasizes the importance of ensuring the effectiveness 
of the Office, including through the strengthening of its 
institutional  memory.  While  noting  with  appreciation 
the progress already achieved in that regard, we are of 
the  view  that  a  particular  effort  should  be  devoted  to 
the  implementation  of  the  already  existing  resolutions 
on  this  matter,  as  well  as  to  identifying,  during  the 
upcoming discussions of the Working Group, ways and 
means  to  pursue  this  objective  progressively  and  with 
determination.
Among  other  prerogatives  and  mandates  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  selection  and  appointment  of 
Secretaries-General of the United Nations is of utmost 
importance. As for future Secretary-General mandates, 
NAM  reaffirms  the  need  for  the  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  be  transparent  to  and  inclusive 
of  all  Member  States  and  emphasizes,  therefore,  the 
need  for  the  Assembly’s  participation  in  the  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  to  be  more 
active,  effective  and  efficient,  in  conformity  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  accordance  with 
the provisions of its resolutions 51/241, 60/286, 64/301 
and  66/294.  NAM  stresses  the  importance  of  the  full 
implementation  of  those  resolutions  in  the  process  of 
the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-
General.
In  conclusion,  we  reaffirm  that  a  reinvigorated 
General Assembly, fully exerting its role and authority 
in a more responsive environment, would significantly 
contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  the  wider  United 
Nations system and to the improvement of international 
governance and enhancement of multilateralism.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr. Tricot (European Union): I have the honour to 
speak on behalf of the European Union and its member 
States.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
strongly  attached  to  effective  multilateralism,  with 
the  United  Nations  at  its  core.  In  this  context,  we  are 
4 
12-54292
committed  to  revitalization  and  to  supporting  efforts 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General Assembly, in line with the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  relevant  resolutions.  It  is  our  wish  that 
the  General  Assembly,  as  the  only  intergovernmental 
body with universal membership, be able to take up the 
challenge of conciliating legitimacy and efficiency in a 
context of emerging global challenges.
We believe that revitalization can be ensured only 
when  the  General  Assembly  takes  relevant  action 
on  issues  of  common  concern  to  the  international 
community. Ву doing so, it lives up to its role as one of 
the principal organs of the United Nations.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
welcome  the  adoption  of  resolution  66/294.  We  would 
like  to  stress  the  importance  of  the  implementation  of 
all  the  Assembly’s  resolutions,  including  those  on  the 
revitalization  of  its  work,  and  note  the  impact  of  such 
implementation  on  the  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency of the General Assembly. The revitalization 
of  the  Assembly’s  work  is  clearly  interlinked  with  the 
overall reform of the United Nations.
I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the 
European Union and its member States will continue to 
engage in a pragmatic manner in all future proceedings 
on the matter.
Mr. Advani (India): Let me begin by congratulating 
you,  Sir,  upon  your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. You 
carry  an  enormous  responsibility  on  your  shoulders, 
and I wish you the very best for the year ahead.
Many of us with long living memories thought that 
the decade that ended in 2010 was the most challenging 
the  international  community  had  witnessed  since  the 
Second  World  War.  But  today  we  know  better.  Never 
before has the need for enduring calm and certainty in 
international relations been felt as ardently as over the 
past few years. The political upheaval in West Asia, the 
Gulf and North Africa that began in early 2011 and is 
still continuing is unprecedented, in terms of both scale 
and impact. The ongoing global financial and economic 
crisis, which began in the developed world and spread 
southwards, has exposed the downside of globalization 
and seriously undermined the Cold War-era structures 
of global governance.
Our responses to the most challenging sociopolitical 
and  economic  crises  of  the  past  50  years  cannot  be 
patchy and half-hearted. The process should begin here 
A/67/PV.23
at the United Nations and must be guided by a sense of 
urgency.
Today,  I  was  listening  very  carefully  to  you,  Sir, 
when you made your introductory remarks, and I fully 
agree with what you had to say regarding the urgency 
of what we propose to do today. To quote what you said 
this morning: 
“I am afraid we are confronted with the choice 
of either adapting to new times or simply being left 
behind to watch the gap between our duties and our 
capabilities widen by the day. I am not advocating 
haste or revolution, but I am trying to instil a sense 
of urgency.”
The  ongoing  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  is 
certainly asking us to do this immediately. 
First and foremost, the deficit in global governance 
must  be  addressed.  The  Security  Council,  whose 
structure and set of governing norms harken back to the 
realities of the late 1940s, is, I stress, an anachronism. 
For the Council to ref lect current geopolitical realities, 
it  needs  to  be  expanded  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  A  reformed  Council  must 
include  countries  that  are  willing  to  bear  additional 
burdens  relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  and  be  able  to  sustain  worldwide 
campaigns  against  new  and  emerging  global  threats, 
including  terrorism  and  piracy.  That  is  exactly  what 
you  stressed,  Sir,  when  you  said  that  the  gap  between 
our duties and capabilities is widening by the day.
Next, we need to revitalize the General Assembly. 
We  need  to  change  it  from  a  mere  talking  shop  to  a 
place  where  transnational  issues  that  impact  each  and 
every one of us are addressed swiftly and truly global 
solutions  prescribed.  We  therefore  appreciate  the 
importance  that  you,  Sir,  have  attached  to  this  issue. 
You told Member States on the first day of the current 
session, on 18 September 2012: 
“To  revitalize  this  most  universal  of  multilateral 
institutions  is  to  renew  our  faith  not  only  in  the 
United Nations programmes and purposes, but also 
in  each  other.  Member  States  can  count  on  me  to 
assist and facilitate in advancing the revitalization 
agenda,  including  the  Security  Council  reform 
process” (A/67/PV.1, p. 3).
We  welcome  your  resolve,  Mr.  President.  You  can 
count on India’s support in this regard.
12-54292
5
A/67/PV.23
The  starting  point  of  my  delegation’s  position 
is  the  firm  belief  that  the  General  Assembly  can 
be  revitalized  only  when  its  position  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the  United  Nations  is  respected,  both  in  letter  and  in 
spirit. The Assembly should take the lead in setting the 
global agenda and restoring the centrality of the United 
Nations  in  the  formulation  of  multilateral  approaches 
to 
In  particular, 
revitalization  must  restore  the  primacy  of  the  United 
Nations in development matters.
transnational 
resolving 
issues. 
Without prejudging the proceedings of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group, which should start soon, I would like 
to  place  on  record  the  Indian  delegation’s  considered 
views  on  the  two  agenda  items  under  consideration 
today.
First  of  all,  it  is  critical  that  we  establish  a 
respectful  relationship  between  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council with regard to their respective 
mandates,  in  the  spirit  of  the  Charter.  The  Council 
should  not  encroach  upon  the  Assembly’s  mandate 
through extremely wide and permissive interpretations 
of  what  constitutes  a  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security, breaches of the peace and acts of aggression, 
and  of  the  situations  under  which  it  can  take  action 
under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  The  Assembly’s 
competence  in  areas  such  as  the  process  of  standard-
setting  and  codification  of  international  law  must  be 
scrupulously respected.
It is clear that the Council’s agenda is overburdened, 
to  say  the  least,  because  it  has  anointed  itself  with 
the  responsibility  of  dealing  with  issues  that,  though 
seemingly  important,  leave  it  with  less  time  to  deal 
with the real hotspots that constitute the real threats to 
international peace and security. The balance between 
the  Assembly  and  the  Council  is  only  one  of  the 
dimensions of what needs to be addressed.
Secondly,  the  Assembly,  we  believe,  must  have  a 
greater  say  in  the  process  of  selecting  the  Secretary-
General.  The  continued  circumscription  of 
the 
Assembly’s  role  and  responsibilities  in  the  process  of 
selecting and appointing the Secretary-General needs to 
change in the interests of the United Nations system in 
general and the Assembly’s prerogatives in particular.
We  could  also  identify  objective  criteria  for 
candidatures,  including  commitment  to  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter and extensive leadership, 
administrative  and  diplomatic  experience,  with  due 
regard  being  given  to  regional  rotation  and  gender 
equality.  It  would  be  equally  useful  and  practical  to 
encourage the formal presentation of candidatures in a 
manner that allows sufficient time for interaction with 
Member States and also requires candidates to present 
their views to all members of the General Assembly.
Thirdly,  the  Assembly  and  the  other  entities 
that  form  part  of  the  United  Nations  system  must 
ref lect  diplomatic  best  practices  in  their  day-to-day 
functioning.  They  have  a  lot  to  learn  from  Member 
States in this regard.
In  conclusion,  let  me  re-emphasize  the  need  to 
discuss substantive measures that would strengthen the 
role of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative, 
policy-making  and 
the 
international  community.  The  General  Assembly  can 
expect India’s constructive support and participation in 
these efforts.
representative  body  of 
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt):  Egypt  associates  itself  with 
the statement delivered earlier by the representative of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  Egypt’s 
appreciation of your decision, Mr. President, to include 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
at  the  top  of  your  priorities  during  the  sixty-seventh 
session, and for your pledge to assist in advancing the 
revitalization agenda.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  Gambia  and  Georgia  for  their 
efforts as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly 
during the sixty-sixth session, which led to the adoption 
of  resolution  66/294.  That  resolution  and  the  report 
(A/67/891)  represent  a  strong  basis  for  the  discussions 
during the current session.
The  increasing  challenges  facing  our  world  today 
require,  more  than  ever,  a  strong  and  responsive 
General  Assembly,  so  that  this  universal  body  may 
play  its  leading  role  in  global  governance  in  the 
political,  economical  and  social  spheres.  For  more 
than  two  decades,  Member  States  have  adopted  by 
consensus  resolutions  containing  specific  measures 
to  revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
main  deliberative,  policy-making  and  representative 
principal organ of the United Nations. These measures 
were not fully implemented, due to the lack of political 
6 
12-54292
will  to  ensure  that  the  Assembly  fulfils  its  mandate 
according to the Charter.
Egypt believes that the first step towards achieving 
tangible progress in the revitalization of the Assembly 
is  to  transform  decisions  into  actions.  The  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  should  continue  to  evaluate  the  status 
of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  all  previously 
adopted resolutions to identify the obstacles hindering 
their implementation, and then specify what should be 
done to overcome them. One of the main obstacles facing 
the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  Assembly  is  the 
Security Council’s continued encroachment on its role 
and functions. The Council tends to redefine the scope 
of  its  competence  through  a  broader  interpretation  of 
the  issues  that  may  constitute  a  threat  to  international 
peace and security.
We should strive to establish a mutually reinforcing 
and complementary relationship between the principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  not  sufficient  to 
claim that each individual body performs its functions 
in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  It  is  necessary  to 
promote greater coordination among them. The General 
Assembly should not be a mere forum for deliberations. 
It must also be a forum for finding solutions. It should 
assume a more proactive role in responding to emerging 
challenges  of  common  concern  to  the  international 
community. The adoption of resolutions 66/253 A and 
66/253  B  on  the  situation  in  Syria  shows  clearly  that 
the  Assembly  can  make  decisions  where  the  Council 
cannot.
As  the  current  Chair  of  the  Arab  Group,  Egypt, 
along  with  all  the  members  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, is eager to see the State of Palestine become 
a full Member of the United Nations. The least we can 
expect  at  this  stage  of  the  current  session  is  that  the 
General  Assembly  will  adopt  a  resolution  to  upgrade 
Palestine’s  status  to  that  of  a  non-member  observer 
State at the United Nations, proving that the Assembly 
supports the principles of justice and equality without 
selectivity or politicization.
Egypt  also  commends  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
choosing  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means” 
as the overarching theme for the sixty-seventh session of 
the General Assembly. It is completely consistent with 
the objective of strengthening the role of the Assembly 
in  the  areas  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
serving the noble cause of preventing new conf licts and 
resolving existing ones. The Assembly should continue 
A/67/PV.23
to increase the visibility of its work by interacting more 
with civil society, non-governmental organizations and 
the private sector.
Mr.  President,  your  Office  should  be  further 
strengthened  through  the  allocation  of  more  financial 
and  human  resources  from  the  United  Nations  regular 
budget so that it can keep up with the growing demands, 
workload  and  responsibilities  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly from one session to the next. It is not 
acceptable that the budget allocation for the Office has 
not increased since 1998. The establishment in 2010 of 
the Trust Fund in support of the Office of the President 
was not the best solution. No contribution was made to 
the  Trust  Fund  during  the  sixty-sixth  session.  That  is 
why  the  President’s  Office  should  not  have  to  rely  on 
voluntary contributions. Resources should be increased 
from within the regular budget in order not to affect the 
credibility or impartiality of the President’s position.
The  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General  is  yet  another  issue  of  great  interest  to  the 
wider  membership.  The  General  Assembly  should  be 
more involved at an early stage in the selection process 
and in identifying candidates for this key post.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly is linked to other processes under the wider 
umbrella  of  the  United  Nations  reform.  It  should  not 
be  considered  in  isolation  from  the  wider  context  of 
institutional  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  There  is  a 
dire need to address every element of the reform process 
with  equal  attention.  The  issue  of  the  revitalization 
of  the  Assembly  lies  at  the  core  of  that  process.  In 
conclusion,  I  would  particularly  like  to  thank  the 
President for his introduction of this item this morning, 
and  for  his  inspirational  statement.  I  would  also  like 
to assure him of the Egyptian delegation’s full support 
for  all  his  efforts  to  enhance  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  achieving  peace,  stability  and  prosperity 
for all.
Mr. Singh (Malaysia): On behalf of my delegation, 
I wish to thank the President for convening this meeting 
on  an  issue  that  is  of  particular  importance  to  us  and 
that  we  feel  strongly  about.  It  is  pleasing  to  note  that 
the President feels as strongly about it as we do. I would 
also  like  to  express  Malaysia’s  appreciation  to  the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the Gambia 
for their efforts and leadership in steering the Ad Hoc 
12-54292
7
A/67/PV.23
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the  General  Assembly  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-
sixth  session.  We  appreciate  the  convening  of  four 
separate thematic meetings that enabled Member States 
to clearly focus on various aspects of revitalization, one 
theme  at  a  time.  Those  discussions,  along  with  all  the 
efforts  by  Member  States,  culminated  in  the  report  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  (A/66/891),  for  which  we 
should also thank the co-Chairs. On that note, I wish to 
align my statement with that made by Algeria on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Year  after  year,  revitalization  remains  a  priority 
issue  for  the  General  Assembly.  Despite  the  attention 
it attracts, we have managed to achieve only qualified 
success  in  revitalizing  it.  Over  the  years,  we  have 
seen  some  improvements  in  the  Assembly’s  working 
methods,  but  they  are  minor.  We  have  still  failed  to 
address the real issue of why the General Assembly must 
be revitalized. We should not forget that the key word 
here  is  “revitalization”,  not  “minor  improvements”. 
The  General  Assembly  is  unquestionably  the  chief 
deliberative  policymaking  and  representative  organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  the  highest  authoritative 
body of the United Nations, since it represents all 193 
Member  States.  We  must  therefore  accord  it  the  role 
and authority it rightly deserves.
to  be 
the  biggest  stumbling  block 
My  delegation  firmly  believes  that  the  lack  of 
resolutions 
implementation  of  General  Assembly 
continues 
to 
enhancing  its  role  and  effectiveness.  We  reiterate 
that  no  other  weakness  of  the  General  Assembly 
undermines its relevance or effectiveness more than the 
failure  to  implement  resolutions.  Malaysia  commends 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s  decision  to  continue  its 
review of the Assembly’s resolutions on revitalization. 
We  look  forward  to  receiving  the  updated  inventory 
of  those  resolutions,  which  will  give  Member  States 
a  better  understanding  of  the  reasons  behind  the 
failure  to  implement  them.  The  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  could  then  discuss  the  issue  and  find  ways  to 
overcome problems so as to ensure that the resolutions 
are  implemented.  This  is  the  first  step  towards  the 
ultimate goal of realizing the full implementation of all 
Assembly resolutions.
take 
the 
to 
Malaysia  continues 
issue  of 
encroachment seriously. We cannot emphasize enough 
the  need  for  all  principal  organs,  especially  the  two 
leading  organs  —  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  —  to  faithfully  respect  each  other’s 
mandates,  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter. Both organs must work together in consultation 
and cooperation to create a more harmonious working 
relationship.  Encroachment  by  one  organ  on  the 
mandate of the other would severely affect not only the 
functioning  of  the  organ  itself,  but  the  entire  United 
Nations machinery.
It  is  obvious  that  the  role  and  activities  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  have  evolved 
significantly over the years. A greater number of issues 
and agenda items are now considered by the Assembly 
than  was  the  case  just  a  few  years  ago.  Furthermore, 
the  workload  of  the  General  Assembly  now  spans 
the  whole  year  rather  than  being  limited  to  its  main 
session.  It  is  therefore  only  natural  that  the  Office  of 
the  President  should  be  provided  with  the  additional 
resources required to enable the President to efficiently 
and effectively perform the role that has been entrusted 
to him or her by the United Nations Charter.
While  we  recognize  the  benefits  of  the  Trust 
Fund  established  to  assist  in  the  funding  of  the  work 
of  the  President  of  the  Assembly,  it  is  nonetheless 
important that the funding from the regular budget be 
increased  so  that  the  Office  of  the  President  will  no 
longer  be  dependent  on  the  Trust  Fund  and  voluntary 
contributions.  In  this  regard,  Malaysia  looks  forward 
to  proposals  to  review  the  budget  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the  biennium 
2014-2015.
On the subject of the appointment of the Secretary-
General,  Malaysia  firmly  believes  that  the  Assembly 
needs  to  play  a  more  meaningful  role  in  the  selection 
process. That process needs to be more transparent and 
inclusive of all Member States, as the Secretary-General 
represents  all  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and 
not  merely  the  members  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is 
therefore  important,  when  selecting  and  appointing 
the  Secretary-General  in  future,  to  implement  past 
resolutions, especially paragraphs 17 to 22 of the annex 
to resolution 60/286.
There  is  an  undeniable  need  to  focus  on  the 
substantive aspects of the revitalization process and to 
ensure that the General Assembly continues in its role 
as the principal policy-making and norm-setting organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  issue  of  the  revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly  has  been  the  subject  of 
plenary  debate  since  1991.  Given  the  number  of  years 
this  issue  has  been  considered,  it  is  high  time  that  all 
Member  States  approach  the  subject  with  openness 
8 
12-54292
A/67/PV.23
and the necessary political will to realize tangible and 
substantial progress. If the pace of reform continues to 
be  as  slow  as  it  has  been  in  the  past,  we  will  face  the 
awkward task of revitalizing the revitalization process. 
This is something we should certainly avoid.
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We are grateful to the President for convening 
today’s meeting. 
The  Russian  delegation  intends  to  continue  to 
participate  constructively  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly at this session. We hope that the work of this 
Group will be balanced, realistic and depoliticized and 
will  seek  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  General 
Assembly. All initiatives and proposals must be based 
on the principle of strict respect for the distribution of 
powers among the principal United Nations organs, as 
set out in the Charter. 
The  emphasis  in  the  work  of  the  Group  must  be 
placed on the issue of improving the working methods 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  streamlining  its  agenda. 
The  Assembly’s  programme  of  work  is  in  many  ways 
overburdened, and it would therefore be appropriate to 
review the possibility of transferring some of its agenda 
items  to  a  biennial  or  triennial  cycle.  It  would  also  be 
appropriate  to  lighten  the  workload  in  terms  of  high-
level  meetings  during  the  week  of  the  general  debate, 
when, due to the presence in New York of Heads of State 
and  Government  and  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
there  is  an  especially  busy  programme  of  events  and 
meetings, including bilateral meetings. We should limit 
the  number  of  high-level  meetings  during  that  period, 
and the remaining events should be evenly spread over 
the entire session of the Assembly. 
We  are  prepared  to  examine  proposals  to  enhance 
the institutional memory of the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  However,  we  would  point 
out  that,  as  with  any  proposal  that  has  financial 
implications  for  the  United  Nations  regular  budget, 
this  issue  must  receive  full  consideration,  in  line  with 
existing procedures, that is, in the Advisory Committee 
on  Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  and  the 
Fifth Committee. As to the General Assembly’s role in 
selecting and appointing the Secretary-General, Russia 
has  consistently  advocated  maintaining  the  current 
practice, based on Article 97 of the Charter, according 
to  which  the  Secretary-General  is  appointed  by  the 
General  Assembly  upon  the  recommendation  of  the 
Security Council. 
With  respect  to  the  implementation  of  General 
Assembly  resolutions,  it  seems  that,  to  a  large  extent, 
this  problem  is  related  to  the  degree  of  realism  and 
achievability  of  the  goals  and  provisions  of  the 
original  resolutions.  Before  a  decision  is  proposed,  it 
is important for us to ask ourselves how implementable 
it  is  in  principle.  Such  an  approach  should  also  be 
followed in the Group’s own work. We suggest that we 
adopt the line of “less is better”.
Mr.  Yaroshevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  Republic  of  Belarus  attaches  high  priority  to 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
support an enhanced role for the Assembly in resolving 
issues of international peace and security, in line with 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  and  we  want  to  maintain 
a  balance  between  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations in considering all issues on the United Nations 
agenda.  We  highlight  the  need  to  ensure  proper 
implementation  of  General  Assembly  resolutions,  to 
further enhance the role of the President of the Assembly 
and his Office, and to improve the methods for electing 
the Secretary-General and the working methods of the 
General Assembly.
The Belarus delegation commends the work of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. 
We are pleased to note the interactive debates that were 
held  with  the  Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees  of  the 
General Assembly and representatives of the Secretariat 
and the effective work of the Chairs in organizing the 
negotiation process.
This  year,  on  the  initiative  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  together  with  other  participants  in  the 
negotiating process, a very important step, in our view, 
was  taken  towards  enhancing  the  General  Assembly’s 
relevance  and  visibility.  We  can  now  can  see  it  quite 
clearly when we simply open the Journal of the United 
Nations.  Resolution  66/294,  for  the  first  time  in  many 
years,  established  the  order  in  which  the  principal 
organs  are  set  out  in  the  Journal,  in  line  with  Article 
7 of the Charter — that is, with the General Assembly 
first and then the Security Council. That is in line with 
the tradition that was followed in the early years of the 
Organization’s existence. 
With regard to the current session, the delegation of 
Belarus will continue to participate actively in the Ad 
Hoc Working Group. In particular, we believe that it is 
now urgently necessary to design and adopt mechanisms 
that  will  provide  clear  procedures  for  agreeing  on 
12-54292
9
A/67/PV.23
the  fielding  of  candidatures  for  the  Assembly’s  Main 
Committees and an order of rotation for the chairs and 
rapporteurs  from  the  regional  groups.  Adopting  such 
a  mechanism  will  facilitate  enhancing  the  role  and 
authority of the Assembly, streamline current practices 
and  establish  a  clear  mechanism  for  the  election  of 
Chairs  and  bureaux  of  the  Main  Committees.  We  call 
upon our partners to take an active part in working on 
the issue in order to achieve an effective and mutually 
acceptable decision.
Belarus  is  convinced  that  stepping  up  work  to 
revitalize  the  General  Assembly  will  also  help  us  to 
make  progress  in  the  work  of  the  Special  Committee 
on  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  on  the 
Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the  Organization.  In  that 
regard,  we  express  our  support  for  the  initiative  of 
Venezuela and Cuba, which is being considered in the 
framework of the Special Committee. Issues raised by 
our friends deserve serious and balanced examination, 
considering  the  functions  and  competencies  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  and  the 
substantive decisions taken by them.
It  is  strategically  important  that,  in  the  work  to 
reanimate  the  activities  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  be  followed,  as  the 
Charter establishes that universal organ in the primary 
role, with its higher f lexibility and capacity to promptly, 
appropriately and effectively respond to current issues 
of  international  life.  In  other  words,  the  Assembly 
should  be  the  world’s  “number  one  situation  room” 
and  should  be  considered  as  such.  In  that  connection, 
the Belarus delegation shares the view of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  stated  earlier  in  the  meeting 
that  the  General  Assembly  must  “adapt...  to  the  new 
times”. The world that is changing before our very eyes, 
with  globalization  and  technological  revolutions  and 
other types of revolutions, requires that the process of 
optimizing the work of the Assembly be a permanent, 
even uninterrupted, process.
Successful  businessmen  are  convinced  that  they 
have  to  work  every  minute  of  the  day  on  improving 
business  processes.  Businessmen  are 
responsible 
for  businesses  and  their  employees,  and  they  make 
profit  their  target.  All  of  us  regard  as  of  paramount 
importance  the  more  serious  and  important  values  of 
our  shared  responsibility,  which  is  unconditional  and 
far  greater.  Therefore  our  work  —  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly — must conform to the very highest 
contemporary  standards  of  efficacy,  quality  and 
practical results. 
the 
international  situation 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At 
is  undergoing 
present, 
complex  and  profound  changes.  Under 
the  new 
situation,  the  international  community  expects  the 
United  Nations  to  play  a  greater  role  in  safeguarding 
world  peace,  promoting  common  development  and 
strengthening  international  cooperation.  The  General 
Assembly  is  the  Organization’s  pre-eminent  policy 
deliberation body and one of its most important Charter 
bodies. The numerous Member States, particularly the 
developing  countries,  would  like  to  see  the  General 
Assembly  further  enhance  its  prestige  and  efficiency 
and better fulfil the duties entrusted to it by the Charter.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  bears 
on  the  vital  interests  of  all  Member  States  and  has 
important, far-reaching implications for enhancing the 
prestige  and  credibility  of  the  United  Nations.  China 
commends  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
making revitalization of the Assembly one of his priority 
items  and  supports  giving  full  play  to  the  Assembly’s 
policy  deliberation  function.  The  Assembly,  on  the 
basis  of  the  development  of  the  international  situation 
and targeting the salient challenges faced by the United 
Nations  in  all  fields,  should  emphasize  deliberating 
on  and  dealing  with  important  questions  of  common 
concern to Member States, particularly those involving 
the vital interests of the developing countries. 
The  General  Assembly  should  give  particular 
attention to, and step up efforts on, development issues 
so  as  to  play  a  greater  role  in  advancing  international 
cooperation  for  development.  It  should  strengthen  its 
arrangements  for  division  of  work  and  cooperation 
with  organs  such  as  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  so  that  each  can  deploy 
its full strength and step up information exchange and 
interaction. 
regarding 
On  matters 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security, the General Assembly 
should strengthen its coordination and cooperation with 
the  Security  Council,  on  the  basis  of  the  division  of 
work set out in the Charter. China supports improving 
the  Assembly’s  working  methods,  simplifying  its 
decision-making  procedures 
its 
efficiency.  Enhancing  the  quality  of  reports  and 
documents  should  be  emphasized.  Reports  should  be 
concise  and  clear,  and  analytical  recommendations 
should  be  well  targeted.  Pragmatic,  action-oriented 
and 
enhancing 
10 
12-54292
work  styles  should  be  developed.  Member  States 
should also respect the solemnity of General Assembly 
resolutions  and  ensure  their  full  implementation  so 
as  to  safeguard  the  authority  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Assembly. 
The  effective  functioning  of  the  Office  of  the 
President is an important guarantee of the smooth work 
of  the  Assembly.  China  supports  the  strengthening 
of  the  Office  of  the  President  in  both  manpower  and 
budgetary  terms,  particularly  in  order  to  resolve 
current difficulties faced by developing countries when 
carrying out the functions of the presidency.
The  numerous  Member  States  have  high  hopes 
for  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  China 
firmly  supports  the  President’s  efforts  to  that  end,  for 
a more effective role for the Assembly in the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  the  promotion  of  global 
development.  China  wishes  to  continue  to  advance 
the  implementation  of  the  series  of  resolutions  on  the 
revitalization of the Assembly within the framework of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work of the General Assembly. We hope that the work 
will move steadily forward on the basis of democratic 
consultations,  going  from  easier  to  more  difficult 
issues  in  an  orderly  and  gradual  manner.  China  will 
work  with  other  Member  States  for  good  progress  on 
the  important  agenda  item  of  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  during  the  current  session  of  the 
Assembly.
Mr. León González (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The 
delegation of Cuba endorses the statement made by the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement,  which  represents  the  position  of  120 
countries. We wish to add some remarks in our national 
capacity. 
First,  the  Cuban  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly for 
their commendable work during the sixty-sixth session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Under  their  leadership,  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  contributed  to  strengthening 
the  leading  role  that  the  General  Assembly  plays 
in  the  system  of  international  relations  and  in  the 
Organization.
It is unacceptable that numerous General Assembly 
resolutions,  despite  being  an 
important  body  of 
law,  have  not  been  implemented.  That  also  applies 
to  the  many  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
A/67/PV.23
General  Assembly,  whose  level  of  implementation  is 
unacceptably low despite their having been adopted by 
consensus.  As  we  have  stated  on  previous  occasions, 
the  task  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  cannot 
be  limited  to  speeches.  The  General  Assembly  enjoys 
all the legal prerogatives necessary to act. We therefore 
hope  that  this  year,  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  will 
adopt  a  broad  and  f lexible  agenda  aimed  at  achieving 
ambitious goals. 
The  General  Assembly  is  the  principal  organ  for 
deliberation, the adoption of policies and representation 
of the United Nations. Owing to its broad and democratic 
nature,  it  enjoys  legitimacy  and  great  prestige.  It  is 
the  maximum  expression  of  the  principle  of  sovereign 
equality among States. The revitalization of its work is 
an issue of the greatest importance.
The  main  obstacle  to  revitalizing  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  is  the  lack  of  political  will  on  the 
part  of  certain  States  that  attempt  to  put  their  narrow 
political  interests  above  the  views  of  the  majority. 
The  revitalization  issue  is  therefore  not  a  technical 
matter,  as  some  countries  would  have  us  believe,  but 
fundamentally a political issue. It is necessary to strike 
the appropriate balance among the principal organs of 
the United Nations, in accordance with the Charter.
My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  its  concern  over 
the  attempts  of  the  Security  Council  to  establish  legal 
norms and definitions, overlooking the fact that, under 
Article 13 of the Charter, the progressive development 
of  international  law  and  its  codification  are  the 
exclusive  responsibility  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Those dangerous trends and the increasing broadening 
of  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  beyond  its 
competence  must  immediately  cease  because  they  are 
clear violations of the provisions of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  restrict  the  debate,  transparency 
and  democratic  way  in  which  the  problems  of  today’s 
world should be addressed.
that 
transforms 
We would like to take this opportunity to urgently 
appeal  once  again  for  a  radical  reform  of  the  Security 
Council 
transparent, 
participatory  and  democratic  organ  demanded  by  the 
international  community.  The  action  of  the  Security 
Council and its members is subject to international law, 
in particular the Charter.
it 
into 
the 
We cannot speak of an Organization in consonance 
with the system of contemporary international relations 
without  reforming  the  Security  Council  and  placing 
12-54292
11
A/67/PV.23
the  General  Assembly  at  the  centre  of  debate  and 
multilateral  work.  The  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  essential  in  order  to  achieve  a  genuine 
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  cannot  be  satisfied 
with  our  work  until  the  General  Assembly  fully 
exercises all its functions and powers.
Cuba reiterates that only a universal and democratic 
organ,  such  as  the  General  Assembly,  can  tackle  the 
existing  global  problems,  whose  solutions  exceed  the 
limited  capacity  of  a  country  or  a  group  of  countries, 
however powerful they believe themselves to be.
Mr.  Khan  (Indonesia):  At  the  outset,  Indonesia 
thanks  the  President  for  convening  this  important 
debate on the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly,  which  it  fervently  supports.  Indonesia 
commends  his  strong  commitment  to  strengthening 
the General Assembly’s role in line with the Charter of 
the United Nations. We pledge our full support for his 
efforts and those of Member States towards realizing an 
effective Assembly.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
We  welcome  the  recent  adoption  of  resolution 
66/294, mandating the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  continue  its  work  on  the  issue  during  the  sixty-
seventh  session.  Resolution  66/294  underscores  the 
zeal  of  delegations  to  reinforce  the  gravity  of  the 
reform process of the Assembly as an invaluable United 
Nations principal organ. 
That  the  Assembly  alone  uniquely  ref lects  the 
aspirations  and  concerns  of  all  Member  States  must 
elevate  the  status  of  its  revitalization  efforts.  We  all 
need  to  participate  to  adequately  support  the  work 
on  strengthening  the  Assembly’s  role.  We  therefore 
stress  the  importance  of  this  year’s  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group continuing to build upon the results of previous 
sessions and how vital it is for us to support the Group 
as  it  carries  out  its  work.  Allow  me  to  make  a  few 
observations on advancing the work of that Group
First,  we  emphasize  updating  and  utilizing  the 
inventory  chart  annexed  to  the  annual  reports  of  the 
Ad Hoc Working Group. The chart has proved to be a 
valuable tool in systematically identifying, monitoring 
and proposing solutions to the issue of the Assembly’s 
revitalization.  While  my  delegation  is  mindful  of 
the  sensitive  nature  of  that  exercise,  with  its  obvious 
legal  and  budgetary 
political, 
is 
important for everyone to be aware of both the deficit 
and  the  progress  in  the  implementation  of  relevant 
United Nations resolutions and decisions on making the 
Assembly robust.
implications, 
it 
We therefore reiterate our request that the Secretariat 
update  the  chart  and  provide  the  Working  Group 
with  information  about  the  challenges  and  obstacles 
hindering  the  timely  and  concrete  implementation  of 
all relevant resolutions pertaining to the various themes 
stated in the inventory charts.
Regarding  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
heads  of  United  Nations  agencies  and  senior  officials 
of  the  Secretariat,  we  stress  that  their  selection  and 
appointment must also conform to the criteria of a more 
balanced geographical representation.
Secondly, we underline that a faithful implementation 
of  United  Nations  resolutions  is  vital  to  strengthening 
the  oversight  role  of  the  Assembly.  In  that  regard,  we 
concur  that  a  strong  oversight  role  of  the  Assembly  is 
needed in the management and procurement of United 
Nations peacekeeping operations, as well as in the wider 
United  Nations  system’s  post-conf lict  peacebuilding 
efforts, including in the areas of preventive diplomacy, 
conf lict resolution and mediation.
Indonesia  is  pleased  that  the  theme  of  this  year’s 
session  focuses  on  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful  means.  That  focus  should  be  sustained.  As 
we have already proposed, it would therefore be fitting 
that,  just  as  peacekeeping  issues  have  a  forum  in  the 
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations of the 
General  Assembly,  and  post-conf lict  peacebuilding 
issues  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC),  the 
issues of preventive diplomacy, mediation and peaceful 
conf lict resolution should also have a dedicated United 
Nations intergovernmental forum. We also believe that 
the Assembly, which is one of the parent bodies of the 
PBC, should play a more effective role in guiding and 
supporting the Commission’s work.
As my third and last point, I would submit that it is 
not for any shortage of resolutions or decisions that the 
Assembly has not yet fully claimed its Charter role as 
the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  chief ly  the  lack  of 
political  will  and  necessary  support  that  is  the  cause. 
The  many  mutually  shared  and  complex  problems  of 
our globalized world today will not be solved if we do 
not  come  together  and  strengthen  the  United  Nations 
12 
12-54292
multilateral  framework  that  we  ourselves  created  for 
that  purpose.  Let  us  rise  above  our  differences  and 
empower and support the Assembly to perform its work 
effectively.
I  affirm  Indonesia’s  readiness  to  work  actively 
and constructively with all delegations in our common 
endeavour  to  enhance  the  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
first  of  all  like  to  thank  the  Ambassadors  of  the 
Gambia  and  Georgia  for  their  efforts  as  co-Chairs  of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  sixty-sixth 
session.  While  aligning  ourselves  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
make the following remarks.
With regard to enhancing the role and the authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  my  country’s  delegation 
believes  that  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
Assembly is a key element in the comprehensive reform 
of the United Nations since, aside from the Assembly’s 
role  in  establishing  the  norms  and  codification  of 
international  law,  it  is  the  principal  deliberative  and 
decision-making  body  and  the  most  representative 
entity  of  the  Organization.  We  affirm  the  need  to 
continue  strengthening  the  work  and  the  role  of  that 
important  organ  by  stepping  up  our  efforts.  At  the 
same time, we must ensure that the relevant Assembly 
resolutions are implemented as a basic requirement for 
making progress in that area.
We believe that enhancing the role and authority of 
the Assembly means including urgent issues of common 
interest  to  the  international  community  in  its  agenda. 
We must also ensure that the Assembly adapts rapidly to 
the global changes so that it maintains its strength and 
effectiveness and is able to meet emerging challenges. 
At  the  same  time,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
Assembly  should  organize  thematic  debates.  Such 
debates are a forum for interaction, allowing exchanges 
of  views  on  current  issues  of  great  international 
importance to the Assembly. It would also enable us to 
interact  with  civil  society.  We  hope  that  such  debates 
will  continue  under  Mr.  Jeremić’s  presidency  of  the 
Assembly during this sixty-seventh session in order to 
achieve tangible and specific outcomes. 
Strengthening 
the 
Assembly  also  requires  that  its  role  in  maintaining 
the  role  and  authority  of 
A/67/PV.23
international  peace  and  security  be  recognized. 
Although  Articles  12  and  24  of  the  Charter  invest  the 
Security  Council  with  the  primary  responsibility  in 
that area, that responsibility should not be the Council’s 
sole  domain.  In  our  view,  the  Assembly  must  respond 
more rapidly to relevant issues that affect international 
peace and security. 
We  also  affirm  the  need  to  improve  the  quality 
and  content  of  the  annual  Security  Council  reports 
submitted  to  the  Assembly;  they  should  be  more 
analytical and comprehensive so as to reﬂ ect the context 
in  which  the  Council  resolutions  were  adopted  and  the 
situations in which the Council was unable to take any 
action.  Periodic  meetings  should  be  held  among  the 
heads of the principal organs of the United Nations, and 
Member States should be informed of the outcomes of 
those meetings on a regular basis. It is also important to 
promote  cooperation  and  coordination  and  exchanges 
of  information  between  the  Assembly  and  those 
organs  through  regular  and  transparent  mechanisms 
that  specifically  provide  for  the  participation  of  the 
countries directly affected.
With  regard  to  improving  the  working  methods 
of  the  Assembly,  my  delegation  believes  that,  while 
a  number  of  resolutions  have  been  adopted  with  a 
view  to  improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Main 
Committees and the convening of high-level meetings, 
it  is  nevertheless  important  to  study  thoroughly  some 
relevant  proposals,  such  as  the  need  to  streamline 
the  work  of  the  Committees,  with  the  support  of  all 
Member  States.  We  must  also  facilitate  the  access 
of  developing  countries  to  detailed  and  updated 
information  on  the  websites  of  the  Main  Committees 
and make such information available in all the official 
languages,  including  Arabic.  We  should  ensure  that 
resolutions,  reports  and  other  documents  are  concise 
and  that  there  is  an  exchange  of  best  practices  among 
the Committees, taking into account the specific nature 
of  each  Committee.  Arrangements  for  strengthening 
the  coordination  of  efforts  and  setting  up  schedules 
for  high-level  meetings  so  that  they  are  optimally 
distributed,  for  the  benefit  of  all,  should  also  be 
thoroughly considered.
Regarding the appointment of the Secretary-General 
and  the  senior  managers  of  the  Secretariat,  I  reiterate 
our  thanks  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
efforts to organize broader consultations with Member 
States, based on cooperation and transparency, in order 
to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization’s 
12-54292
13
A/67/PV.23
performance. We hope that during this session we will 
focus  on  improving  the  selection  process  for  senior 
managers of the Secretariat, while taking into account 
the  recommendations  set  out  in  the  report  of  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit (A/65/34), submitted during the sixty-
fifth session.
With  regard  to  strengthening  the  support  of  the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  we 
believe  that  it  is  necessary  to  provide  the  Office  with 
adequate  financial  and  human  resources  to  allow  the 
President of the Assembly to fulfil his function as well 
as  possible.  That  support  should  at  least  ref lect  the 
changes in the regular budget. We also stress the notion 
of  strengthening  the  Assembly’s  institutional  memory 
and benefiting from lessons learned, in the interest of a 
smooth transition from one presidency to the next.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my country’s 
support  for  resolution  66/294,  adopted  in  September, 
which  provides  for  the  establishment  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly. In our view, the priority of that 
Working  Group  should  be  to  assess  the  difficulties 
in  implementing  resolutions  so  that  the  revitalization 
process can move forward. 
Mr.  Pope (United  States  of  America):  The  United 
States would like to add its thanks to last year’s co-Chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly,  Ambassador 
Waffa-Ogoo  of  the  Gambia  and  Ambassador  Lomaia 
of  Georgia,  for  their  attention  to  this  issue  during  the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Their 
leadership culminated in the recently adopted resolution 
66/294, which serves as a basis for our continued work 
on the topic. We also offer the incoming co-Chairs our 
full support once they are named. We look forward to 
working  with  fellow  Member  States  as  we  consider 
the best options for revitalizing the General Assembly 
and build on the recommendations that we made to the 
Working Group this past session.
The  United  States  is  committed  to  multilateral 
engagement  and  a  strong  United  Nations  system.  We 
recognize  the  important  contributions  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  fulfilling  the  mission  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  hope  that  our  discussions  and  the  efforts 
of the Working Group will be constructive in allowing 
us to consider how we can improve working methods to 
better enable the Assembly to carry out its work.
We continue to advocate for measures to ensure the 
improved  efficiency,  effectiveness  and  transparency 
of the United Nations system. Therefore, streamlining 
and prioritizing the agenda and improving the practices 
and working methods of the Main Committees will be 
the primary focus of our interactions with the Working 
Group during the sixty-seventh session.
As  part  of  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly  remains  relevant,  we  should  also  encourage 
the  more  timely  publishing  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions  soon  after 
their  adoption.  Informing 
others  of  our  work  will  highlight  the  important  issues 
that  we  cover  and  would  encourage  more  expeditious 
implementation  of  General  Assembly  resolutions  by 
Member  States.  Just  as  providing  information  to  the 
world  outside  of  New  York  is  important,  the  General 
Assembly  would  be  better  served  by 
increased 
interaction  between  the  heads  of  the  principal  organs 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees and the President of the General Assembly.
That could perhaps be accomplished by exchanging 
views  and  priorities  at  the  start  of  each  new  General 
Assembly  session.  Greater  cooperation  and  increased 
coordination  among  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
are  critical  for  enabling  us  to  achieve  our  goal  of 
streamlining  agendas  and  reducing  wasteful  overlap. 
We  will  continue  to  work  with  other  delegations  on 
our  proposals  to  improve  working  methods,  such  as 
discontinuing  the  practice  of  adopting  resolutions  on 
outdated or obscure topics, merging or clustering items 
closely  related  in  substance,  proposing  comprehensive 
or  omnibus  resolutions,  and  encouraging  Member 
States to exercise greater discipline in their submission 
of  draft  resolutions,  that  is,  to  be  more  deliberate  in 
keeping  their  statements  succinct  and  to  focus  on  key 
themes.  We  encourage  Member  States  to  consider 
reviewing existing resolutions biennially or triennially, 
rather than annually, and to exercise greater discipline 
in their submission of draft resolutions.
We  also  propose  setting  deadlines  for  achieving 
objectives,  encouraging  General  Assembly  working 
groups to complete their work on time, and rationalizing 
the General Assembly’s meeting schedule to allow for 
widespread  Member  State  participation.  We  hope  to 
see  progress  on  those  goals  during  the  sixty-seventh 
session.
The roles of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council  in  selecting  the  Secretary-General  are  clearly 
defined  in  the  Charter.  The  General  Assembly  should 
14 
12-54292
A/67/PV.23
not,  as  a  priority  for  its  own  revitalization,  consider 
pursuing  changes  to  the  Council’s  role  in  selecting  a 
candidate for Secretary-General.
My  delegation  looks  forward  to  working  closely 
with  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  with 
our  counterparts  from  other  delegations  towards  a 
constructive dialogue on concrete reform.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, on his assumption 
of duties as President and to thank him for his leadership 
in advancing the revitalization agenda. I would also like 
to extend my sincere gratitude to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-sixth  session,  as  well  as  to  Mr.  Alexander 
Lomaia,  Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia,  and 
Mrs. Susan Waffa-Ogoo, Permanent Representative of 
Gambia,  who  served  as  co-Chairs  of  the  previous  Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of the General Assembly. Their initiative and dedicated 
work  culminated  in  a  report  (A/66/891)  that  included 
the  text  of  resolution  66/294,  which  was  adopted  by 
consensus on the final day of the previous session.
the  General  Assembly 
As  the  body  in  which  all  193  Member  States 
participate, 
is  universally 
recognized  as  the  most  representative  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  General  Assembly  is  mandated 
to  address  any  issue  and  questions  falling  under  its 
responsibility,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,  except 
as provided in Article 12.1.
During  the  course  of  this  year’s  general  debate, 
which was convened under the theme of “Bringing about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means”, we witnessed a number of 
thoughtful statements by dignitaries along with various 
side events on the full spectrum of international issues. 
That  demonstrated  once  again  the  importance  of  this 
body in multilateral diplomacy. The General Assembly 
can  offer  a  useful  forum  as  we  endeavour  to  adapt  to 
today’s complex society. In the words of Japanese Prime 
Minister  Yoshihiko  Noda’s  address  to  the  General 
Assembly on 26 September, we need “to give adequate 
consideration  to  future  generations  and  solve  disputes 
calmly by reason under rules” (A/67/PV.9, p. 47) . The 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  thus  of  high 
importance. Building upon mutual trust and confidence 
among Member States, we must make steady progress 
towards achieving feasible and realistic results on this 
matter.
During  this  first  week  of  substantive  debate  on 
individual  items  on  the  agenda  of  the  current  session, 
let  me  present  Japan’s  general  views  on  several  key 
issues.
First,  it  is  essential  to  strengthen  the  relations 
between the General Assembly and the other principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations.  With  respect  to  the 
Security  Council  in  particular,  while  the  Council 
bears  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security, the General Assembly 
may play a complementary role when the Council fails 
to  fully  exercise  its  functions,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic.  Such  functions  of  the  General 
Assembly  highlight  the  necessity  of  establishing  a 
better  relationship  between  the  two  organs.  Regular 
consultations  between  the  Presidents  of  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  would  be  one 
practical  way  of  proceeding  in  that  regard.  We  look 
forward to a debate on the annual report of the Security 
Council in November this year with a view to deepening 
discussions on the matter.
Secondly,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  its  public 
awareness, the General Assembly must demonstrate to 
the people of the world that it is an organ that is capable 
of  responding  adequately  to  emerging  challenges  of 
common  concern  and  of  producing  results-oriented 
outcomes. In that regard, thematic debates on relevant 
current  issues,  such  as  that  held  in  April  2012  on 
disaster risk reduction, are most welcome. That practice 
has  proved  to  be  a  useful  instrument  for  encouraging 
broader  and  more  f lexible  exchanges  of  views  outside 
the constraints of the formal agenda. Resolution 66/290 
on human security, adopted by consensus in September, 
is  another  notable  achievement  of 
the  General 
Assembly.  I  am  confident  that  the  General  Assembly 
will continue to make notable contributions to putting 
human security into practice.
The  useful  outcomes  produced  by  the  General 
Assembly lose their meaning if they are not implemented 
and 
followed  up.  Repeated  non-implementation 
of  General  Assembly  resolutions  would  over  time 
risk  diminishing  the  authority  of  the  Assembly.  My 
delegation  will  actively  participate  in  the  work  of  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly in conducting a review 
of  the  inventory  of  General  Assembly  resolutions  as 
agreed upon during the previous session.
Thirdly,  it  is  important  to  rationalize  the  work  of 
the General Assembly with a view to better enabling it 
12-54292
15
A/67/PV.23
to focus its activities on current challenges and events 
of  common  interest  to  the  international  community. 
It  is  appropriate,  therefore,  to  continue  to  consider 
ways  to  streamline  and  prioritize  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees.  Various 
possibilities,  such  as  having  biennial  or  triennial 
reviews  of  agenda  items  and  clustering  or  eliminating 
agenda  items,  should  be  given  proper  consideration, 
based on the relevant resolutions.
We also need to consider how to improve working 
methods  so  as  to  carry  out  the  Assembly’s  work 
efficiently. For instance, we recall that Member States 
were not able to reach consensus on the composition of a 
working group on sustainable development goals before 
the opening of the current session, as was mandated in 
the outcome document of the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex). 
The  question  of  the  underrepresentation  of  the  Asia-
Pacific  States,  in  terms  of  equitable  geographical 
representation, might also be posed in that regard.
In  the  light  of  the  considerable  importance  of  the 
issue,  Japan  looks  forward  to  having  constructive 
discussions  aimed  at  further  enhancing  the  role  of the 
General Assembly. I would like to reiterate once again 
Japan’s  commitment  to  making  an  active  contribution 
to that end.
Mr.  Mustafizur  Rahman  (Bangladesh):  I  am 
pleased  to  address  the  General  Assembly  plenary  in 
this joint debate. Allow me first of all to join previous 
speakers  in  thanking  Ambassador  Waffa-Ogoo  of  the 
Gambia  and  Ambassador  Lomaia  of  Georgia  for  their 
excellent work during the past session as the co-Chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly.  Their  joint 
stewardship  resulted  in  the  adoption  of  resolution 
66/294  in  September,  which  we  consider  to  be  a  very 
good basis for future discussion on the matter.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
critical  component  of  the  wider  reform  of  the  United 
Nations. The continued attention the issue is receiving 
indicates  the  collective  desire  of  the  United  Nations 
membership  to  see  the  General  Assembly  attain  its 
rightful  place  in  global  discourse.  We  are  aware  that 
reform  is  a  continuous  process,  but  we  cannot  discuss 
the  issue  ad  infinitum.  As  we  will  embark  on  another 
round of discussions soon, we must make sure that the 
exercise results, within a reasonable period of time, in 
decisions that can be implemented.
There  are  a  number  of  issues  relating  to  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  that  have  been 
discussed  at  length  over  the  past  years  and  have  been 
ref lected  in  the  relevant  resolutions.  The  views  and 
positions  of  my  delegation  are  generally  in  line  with 
the statement made by the representative of Algeria on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. I will, however, 
touch on a few points to reinforce our position.
the 
revitalization  of 
The  objective  of 
the 
Assembly  is  to  strengthen  its  role  and  position  as  the 
chief  deliberative, 
legislative,  policy-making  and 
representative  body  of  the  international  community. 
The  General  Assembly  should  take  the  lead  role 
in  setting  the  global  agenda  and  in  formulating 
multilateral approaches to solving global concerns. The 
General  Assembly  is  the  forum  in  which  all  members 
of  the  international  community  have  the  opportunity 
to  exchange  ideas  on  an  equal  footing  about  issues  of 
common  interest  and  where  global  consensus  can  be 
reached and solutions to challenges can be found. 
We recognize the importance of close cooperation 
and  coordination  among  the  principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations,  especially  among  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Security  Council.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
regular  meetings  being  held  between  the  heads  of 
those organs. That practice should continue in order to 
promote system-wide coherence and effectiveness. 
There  is  a  need  for  the  two  leading  organs  of  the 
United Nations, the General Assembly and the Security 
Council,  to  work  in  concert  and  create  a  harmonious 
relationship  for  maintaining  peace  and  security  and 
fostering development. In so doing, both organs should 
respect  each  other’s  mandates  as  provided  for  in  the 
Charter. We  are  concerned  about  the  encroachment  of 
the Security Council on the prerogatives of the General 
Assembly.  It  is  being  done  through  extremely  broad 
interpretations  of  Charter  provisions  on  threats  to 
international peace and security. 
Although  several  General  Assembly  resolutions 
have been adopted expressing concern on the issue, the 
encroachment  unfortunately  continues  and  has  even 
increased  in  recent  years.  In  our  view,  the  agenda  of 
the  Council  is  already  overburdened  with  real  threats 
to international peace and security, leaving it little time 
to  deal  with  peripheral  issues,  and  it  should  therefore 
desist from doing so.
16 
12-54292
The role and activities of the President of the General 
Assembly have significantly evolved over the years. It is 
essential to ensure sufficient and predictable financial 
and  human  resources  for  the  efficient  and  successful 
functioning of the Office of the President. We welcome 
the measures already adopted for its strengthening. We 
also  welcome  the  decision  to  allocate  dedicated  staff 
within  the  Secretariat  for  coordinating  the  transitions 
between Presidents. It is important that funding for the 
Office  from  the  regular  budget  be  increased,  so  as  to 
avoid  having  the  President  be  dependent  on  the  Trust 
Fund  and  on  voluntary  contributions  to  manage  the 
Office. In our view, such dependence would affect the 
credibility and impartiality of that important position.
The  General  Assembly  should  have  a  strong  role 
in  the  appointments  of  the  senior  management  of 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat.  The  selection  and 
appointment  process  of  the  Secretary-General  should 
be more transparent and inclusive. The process should 
involve  the  entire  membership  of  the  United  Nations. 
Many  resolutions  have  been  adopted  assigning  the 
General  Assembly  a  greater  role  in  the  process. 
We  regret  that  most  of  the  provisions  regarding  the 
selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General 
are  being  overlooked.  In  that  regard,  we  call  for  full 
implementation of the relevant provisions in considering 
future appointments.
The  objective  of  revitalization  is  to  render  the 
Assembly  more  efficient  and  effective.  It  will  require 
improvement of working methods and an adjustment of 
the agenda to meet current global realities. Discussions 
on  improving  working  methods  have  been  exhaustive, 
and  we  recognize  some  improvements.  We  appreciate 
the  convening  of  thematic  debates  and  high-level 
events  aimed  at  establishing  a  broad  international 
understanding of current issues. The General Committee 
also has an important role to play in considering ways 
and means to further improve the Assembly’s working 
methods and improve its efficiency. 
The  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  has  grown 
steadily in response to global demands and expectations. 
That  has  also  led  to  a  reduction  in  the  actual  time 
available  to  focus  on  any  particular  issue.  We  concur 
with  the  numerous  General  Assembly  resolutions  that 
call  for  rationalizing  and  streamlining  the  agenda  so 
that  we  can  pay  more  attention  to  priority  issues.  We 
support the biennialization, triennialization, clustering 
or  even  elimination  of  some  items,  while  preserving 
options to add new items.
A/67/PV.23
The  number  of  reports  requested  should  also  be 
rationalized, so as to improve the quality and precision 
of documents and to permit more focused deliberation. 
We suggest that all of those actions be undertaken with 
the  clear  consent  of  the  co-sponsoring  or  concerned 
States. There should be no attempt to employ artificial 
deadlines or so-called sunset clauses to remove an item 
without  prior  approval  of  the  General  Assembly  or 
consent of the concerned State.
improvement 
The issue of revitalization is a matter that requires 
political  will.  Technical 
is  possible 
through implementation of the proposals already made, 
but  a  true  revitalization  of  the  body  would  require 
genuine political will and openness. Let us garner such 
political  will  to  make  the  General  Assembly  a  truly 
deliberative  and  decision-making  body  for  the  benefit 
of all of humankind.
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  am 
pleased  that  the  General  Assembly  is  focusing  due 
attention  on  the  old  yet  crucially  important  issue  of 
the  revitalization  of  its  work  within  the  core  of  the 
working  agenda  of  this  sixty-seventh  session.  Let 
me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Ambassador 
Susan  Waffa-Ogoo,  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  Gambia,  and  Ambassador  Alexander  Lomaia, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia, 
their 
excellent stewardship of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly 
during  the  past  session,  leading  to  the  adoption  of 
resolution 66/294.
for 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
which,  we  believe,  introduced  a  number  of  key  points 
into this important debate. I would also like to make a 
few  additional  remarks  and  underline  some  points  of 
particular significance.
The General Assembly debate on the revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  Assembly,  held  in  December 
(see A/66/PV.70), ref lected the urgent need to strengthen 
the central role of the Assembly in addressing issues of 
genuine concern to the international community in the 
political, economic and social arenas. In that connection, 
Iran and all the members of the Non-Aligned Movement 
have  demonstrated  their  renewed  commitment  to 
engaging  in  a  meaningful  effort  to  reinforce  the  work 
of the General Assembly.
12-54292
17
A/67/PV.23
Since  1991,  we  have  adopted  20  resolutions 
containing specific measures aimed at revitalizing and 
enhancing the work of the General Assembly as the most 
representative and chief deliberative and policy-making 
principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Unfortunately, 
those  measures,  adopted  by  consensus,  have  not  been 
fully  implemented,  owing  mainly  to  the  lack  of  the 
political will needed to ensure that the Assembly plays 
its leading role in joint global governance. A thorough 
evaluation  of  the  status  of  implementation  of  General 
Assembly  resolutions  and  a  clear  identification  of  the 
underlying  reasons  for  their  lack  of  implementation 
are  therefore  crucial  to  gradually  eliminating  the 
constraints  that  still  prevent  the  revitalization  process 
from achieving its full potential.
The  fact  that  a  large  number  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  have  dealt  with  the  revitalization  of  the 
role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  clearly 
demonstrates  how  important  the  enhancement  of  the 
central role and authority of that organ is for the general 
membership.  The  Assembly  should  take  the  lead  in 
setting  the  global  agenda  and  restoring  the  credibility 
and centrality of the United Nations in the formulation 
of  multilateral  approaches  to  resolving  international 
issues. That was the role intended for the Assembly as 
expressed  in  Article  10  of  the  Charter,  namely,  that  it 
should discuss any questions or matters within the scope 
of the Charter or relating to the powers and functions of 
any of the organs provided for in the Charter. We should 
therefore increase our efforts to explore concrete ways 
and  means  towards  full  realization  of  the  Assembly’s 
functions and powers, as laid down in the Charter.
Regarding relations between the General Assembly 
and  the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
the relationship between the General Assembly and the 
Security  Council,  in  particular,  has  been  a  matter  of 
extensive debate, especially in the context of the various 
reform efforts, for many years. A considerable number 
of  Assembly  resolutions  have  established  various 
criteria  aimed  at  clarifying  the  relationship  between 
those  two  important  principal  organs.  The  Charter 
confers  important  functions  and  responsibilities  on 
both bodies. 
Nonetheless,  in  recent  years  we  have  witnessed 
numerous  cases  of  the  Security  Council’s  gradual  but 
persistent encroachment on the functions and powers of 
the Assembly and other organs, such as the Economic 
and  Social  Council.  We  are  particularly  concerned 
about 
the  Security  Council’s  practice  of  setting 
standards, making laws and establishing definitions in 
areas beyond its competence. Let me recall Article 13 of 
the Charter, according to which the General Assembly, 
as  the  only  universal  organ  representing  every  State 
Member of the United Nations, is primarily responsible 
for  the  progressive  development  of  international  law 
and its codification.
With  regard  to  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  and 
appointing the Secretary-General and in order to comply 
with  Article  97  of  the  Charter,  we  should  not  relegate 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  to  that  of  a  rubber 
stamp.  In  our  view,  there  is  a  strong  desire  among  a 
large  majority  of  the  Members  of  the  Organization  to 
articulate and improve the procedure for the selection of 
the Secretary-General by giving the General Assembly 
a more meaningful and determining role in it.
importance  of  strengthening 
At the same time, ensuring the effectiveness of the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly is also 
an important factor in enhancing the role and authority 
of  the  General  Assembly.  In  that  regard,  we  reiterate 
the 
institutional 
memory of the Office of the President by allocating to 
it  sufficient  human  and  financial  resources  from  the 
regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations,  so  as  to  enable 
all  Member  States,  developed  and  developing,  to  have 
an  equal  opportunity  to  assume  the  presidency  of  the 
Assembly efficiently and effectively.
the 
In  conclusion,  we  believe  that  focusing  only 
on  procedural  aspects  and  the  working  methods  of 
the  Assembly,  important  as  they  are,  will  not  lead 
to  the  comprehensive  improvement  in  its  work  that 
is  long  overdue.  For  that,  a  fundamental  shift,  an 
all-embracing  approach  and  a  vigorous  effort  are 
needed.  The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly, 
as  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  United 
Nations,  is  a  dynamic  and  continuing  process.  We 
should remain committed and constructive throughout 
that  ongoing  exercise,  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
the  role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly  as  the  most 
representative and chief deliberative and policymaking 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  My  delegation  stands 
ready to participate actively in the future deliberations 
to be held in that framework in a transparent, open and 
inclusive manner.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Nicaragua  would  like 
to  thank  the  President  for  organizing  this  meeting. 
the 
Nicaragua  endorses 
the  statement  made  by 
18 
12-54292
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, which expressed our position and that of the 
majority  of  the  States  Members  of  this  Organization. 
Our  delegation  reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to 
the  process  of  revitalizing  and  democratizing  the 
General  Assembly,  and  we  wish  to  continue  to  work 
constructively, so that the Assembly can be seen to be, 
in every aspect, the most representative and legitimate 
organ of the Organization.
As we have stated on various occasions, Nicaragua 
considers  the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations 
to  be  very  important;  in  order  to  achieve  that  goal 
we  must  continue  to  work  to  restore  the  authority  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  enable  it  to  function  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  standard-setting  and  democratic 
organ of the Organization. We believe that the process 
of  revitalizing  the  work  of  the  Assembly  must  be 
universal,  transparent  and  accountable,  arrived  at 
through  open  and 
inclusive  consultations,  which 
are  a  critical  component  of  United  Nations  reform, 
including reform of the Security Council. The Council 
cannot  continue  to  usurp  the  functions  and  powers 
of  the  General  Assembly.  The  process  of  electing  the 
Secretary-General is also very important.
Carrying  out  that  initiative  will  require  restoring 
and increasing the authority of the General Assembly, 
which  in  turn  will  require  restoring  its  functions 
and  jurisdiction  and  strengthening  its  relations  and 
collaboration  with  other  organs  of  the  Organization. 
Such  a  reinvigoration  of  the  General  Assembly  would 
make  it  able  to  answer  the  needs  of  all  193  Member 
States equally and fulfil the principle of the equality of 
all Members. 
A similar reinvigoration is essential for the Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  Measures 
must be taken and procedures put in place to augment 
its  human  and  financial  resources.  Every  State  should 
have  the  possibility  of  presiding  over  the  Assembly. 
Financial considerations should not be an impediment. 
Increased funding for the Office is therefore important 
to strengthening the General Assembly.
that 
The  Nicaraguan  delegation  believes 
the 
General  Assembly  should  more  rigorously  fulfil  its 
responsibilities  in  the  nomination  and  appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General,  and  should  engage  Member 
States’ participation in a more inclusive way. Likewise, 
all  Member  States  should  have  increased  input  into 
the  debate  about  and  the  election  of  candidates.  It  is 
A/67/PV.23
also  important  to  say  that  all  resolutions  adopted  by 
consensus on the revitalization of the Assembly should 
be implemented fully and as quickly as possible, so as 
to actually achieve that goal. 
We  must  rebuff  all  attempts  to  minimize  the 
achievements and importance of the General Assembly, 
to  diminish  its  role  and  functions  or  to  impugn  its 
relevance  and  credibility.  For  the  good  of  all  of  the 
peoples  we  represent,  the  voice  and  the  votes  of  all 
States  Members  of  the  Organization  should  be  ever 
more loudly heard. Nicaragua will continue to support 
all  efforts  to  strengthen  the  central  role  and  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  we  are  always  ready  to 
engage  in  constructive  debate  on  any  issue  that  will 
lead to improving the work of our Organization.
Mr.  Raza  Bashir  Tarar  (Pakistan):  We  thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this  debate,  which  deals  with  a  subject  of  paramount 
importance for Member States. Pakistan pledges its full 
support and cooperation.
We appreciate the work done by the two co-Chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  that 
of  their  predecessors.  We  also  align  ourselves  with 
the  statement  made  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.
In  the  past  two  decades,  much  effort  has  been 
directed  towards  the  shared  goal  of  revitalizing  this 
unique  and  universal  body.  It  has  been  a  worthwhile 
pursuit  for  several  reasons.  Together  we  have  made 
considerable progress in rationalizing and streamlining 
the  work  of  the  Committees.  Our  collective  effort  has 
led to increased financial savings and efficiency gains. 
We have also raised the profile of the General Assembly.
However, for many of us, the revitalization debate 
seems  to  be  losing  vitality.  Concerns  persist  over  a 
range  of  issues,  including  the  non-implementation  of 
resolutions, the growing encroachment by the Security 
Council on the role and authority of the Assembly, the 
marginalization  of  Assembly’s  role  in  the  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  and  others. 
Perhaps,  we  first  need  to  revitalize  the  revitalization 
debate.
As to the reform of the Security Council, it can be 
meaningful only if it is decided with the widest possible 
margin of agreement and in a spirit of compromise and 
f lexibility.  Any  exercise  in  reform  should  make  the 
12-54292
19
A/67/PV.23
Council more democratic and accountable to the general 
membership and not create new centres of privilege. 
In a new debate on revitalization, it would be useful 
to focus on two mutually reinforcing aspects, efficiency 
and efficacy. In some ways, considerable discussion has 
already taken place on improving the working methods 
of United Nations bodies, including the Assembly and 
its  Committees.  In  fact,  several  measures  have  been 
adopted,  including  a  more  streamlined  programme  of 
work, the biennialization or triennialization of agenda 
resolutions and the early selection of the Chairs of the 
Committees and Bureaus. 
However,  those  steps  have  essentially  focused 
on  efficiency  and  rationalization,  and  much  progress 
has  indeed  been  made  on  that  count.  Yet,  to  many  of 
us,  the  effectiveness  and  authority  of  the  Assembly 
seems  to  remain  a  largely  unfulfilled  task.  We  must 
therefore dig deeper and identify the real causes behind 
the  conundrum  whereby  efficiency  gains  seemingly 
continue  to  defeat  the  larger  political  imperative  of 
effectiveness. We look forward to a more focused debate 
on the correlation between the objectives of efficiency 
and effectiveness.
It  may  also  be  worthwhile  to  explore  new  ideas 
about how to bring more vigour, visibility and attention 
to the revitalization debate. We propose that the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  examine  the  possibility  of  convening 
a  high-level  meeting  in  the  future.  We  support  the 
Non-Aligned Movement’s suggestion in that regard and 
look forward to exchanging views within the Working 
Group.
Mr.  Workie  (Ethiopia):  At  the  outset,  allow 
me  to  join  others  in  commending  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  Gambia  and  Georgia  for  their 
very  hard  and  valuable  work  in  co-facilitating  the  Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  previous  session. 
Allow me also to align my delegation with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  General  Assembly  is  not  only  one  of  the 
principal organs of the United Nations but also its most 
representative  and  chief  deliberative,  policy-making 
body.  No  other  intergovernmental  body  in  the  world 
enjoys  such  a  universal  membership  or  covers  such 
a  broad  spectrum  of  issues  as  the  General  Assembly. 
That  breadth  of  membership  and  scope  has  a  direct 
impact on international peace and security.
We  strongly  believe  that  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly will help strengthen the determination 
of  Member  States  to  pursue  multilateralism,  which 
will, in turn, have a major and far-reaching impact on 
rebuilding  the  authority  and  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  system  as  a  whole.  In  that  regard,  we  wish  to 
underline the critical importance of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group,  and  we  urge  it  to  build  upon  its  progress  in 
previous  sessions.  To  that  end,  we  are  convinced  that 
resolutions 65/315 and 66/294 in particular, along with 
other  earlier  resolutions,  can  and  should  serve  as  the 
basis for the work of Ad Hoc Working Group.
As for the relationship of the General Assembly to 
the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  my 
delegation  is  of  the  view  that  it  remains  important  to 
improve  transparency,  the  exchange  of  information 
and cooperation. The General Assembly should benefit 
from information about meetings between the President 
of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  well  as  meetings 
involving the Chairs of subsidiary bodies. 
Periodic  briefings  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  his  recent  activities,  including  official 
travel, continue to be an appreciated practice and are a 
valuable source of information. We also appreciate the 
continued practice of holding periodic informal briefings 
by  the  Secretary-General  on  his  priorities,  travels  and 
most  recent  activities,  including  his  participation  in 
international meetings and events organized outside the 
United Nations, and we encourage him to continue with 
that practice.
On  the  issue  of  working  methods,  we  would  like 
to  stress  the  need  for  the  further  rationalization  and 
streamlining  of  the  agendas  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  its  Main  Committees,  so  as  to  better  define  the 
focus  and  avoid  duplication  in  our  deliberations.  In 
that  regard,  leadership  by  the  Chairs  and  the  Bureaux 
of  the  Main  Committees  is  of  particular  importance. 
Although  each  Main  Committee  is  master  of  its  own 
rules  of  procedure,  we  believe  that  streamlining  and 
standardizing  certain  rules  would  lead  to  greater 
efficient in the work of the Committees.
While  noting  with  appreciation 
the  progress 
achieved  so  far,  we  feel  that  debates  in  the  General 
Assembly  have  often  shown  duplication,  resulting 
in  the  adoption  of  overlapping  resolutions  without  an 
effective mechanism for assessing and evaluating their 
implementation,  with  the  result  that  the  assessment’s 
20 
12-54292
A/67/PV.23
relevance  or  effectiveness  in  helping  to  achieve  the 
desired outcomes is undermined. In that regard, we are 
in favour of launching the regular review of resolutions 
and decisions adopted previously by the Assembly and 
of making the necessary adjustments on the basis of the 
results stemming from their implementation.
The  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General is yet another issue of great interest to the wider 
membership.  Our  view  on  the  subject  is  that,  without 
prejudice  to  Article  97  of  the  Charter,  the  Assembly 
should  play  a  more  meaningful  role  in  the  process  of 
the selection and appointment of the Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  share  the  views  expressed 
by  others  that  there  must  be  substantive  interaction 
between the candidates and the Assembly and that due 
regard must continue to be given to regional rotation.
Ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  is  also  essential 
to  improving  the  role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly, 
including through enhancing the institutional memory 
of that Office. In that regard, resolution 66/294, which 
allocates  the  necessary  budget  to  and  strengthens 
the  human  resources  component  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  is  of  critical 
importance.
In  conclusion,  Ethiopia  is  ready,  as  in  the  past,  to 
extend  its  cooperation  and  looks  forward  to  doing  so 
by  working  with  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during 
the  current  session.  We  believe  that  the  continuation 
of  the  discussion  within  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
contributes to moving forward not only the process of 
the revitalization of the General Assembly but also the 
enhancement of the overall reform efforts of the United 
Nations system, including the Security Council.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on the agenda items 
before us. The Assembly has thus concluded this stage 
of its consideration of agenda items 115 and 116.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
12-54292
21
