United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
43rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 28 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.43
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Román-Morey 
(Peru), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda items 14, 113 and 119 (continued) 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of 
and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
(a) Notes by the Secretary-General (A/67/82 and 
A/67/270)
(b) Draft resolution (A/67/L.25)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
(a) Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/201 
and A/67/257)
(b) Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/373)
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
Mr. Och (Mongolia): First of all, I wish to extend my 
delegation’s great appreciation to the Secretary-General 
for his annual report (A/67/257) entitled “Accelerating 
progress towards the Millennium Development Goals”. 
I believe that our discussions, based on a thorough and 
comprehensive review and assessment of what has been 
achieved  and  which  goals  remain  out  of  reach,  will 
provoke new ideas on how we can scale up our efforts 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) and implementing other outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits.
As  we  can  see  from  the  report,  the  international 
community  should  undertake  targeted  and  scaled-
up  action  to  alleviate  the  burden  of  those  in  need  and 
should promptly implement all commitments under the 
global partnership for development in order to support 
national efforts, in particular commitments in the areas 
of aid, trade, debt relief and access to new technologies. 
According to the Secretary-General’s report, that means 
that  official  development  assistance  f lows  will  have 
to  be  more  than  doubled  in  order  to  meet  the  United 
Nations target of 0.7 per cent.
We  need  to  be  innovative  and  find  ways  to 
do  more  with  limited  resources.  In  our  efforts  to 
accelerate  progress  towards  the  MDGs,  we  need  to 
take  into  account  the  results  of  surveys  and  studies 
undertaken  by  various  United  Nations  agencies  and 
research  centres.  In  that  connection,  according  to  a 
report  launched  this  year  by  the  United  Nations  Fund 
for Population Activities — State of World Population 
2012  —  ensuring  the  availability  of  voluntary  family 
planning  to  everyone  in  developing  countries  would 
reduce the costs for maternal and newborn health care 
by  $11.3  billion  annually.  The  report  also  emphasizes 
that family planning is more than merely an economic 
issue  and  is  connected  to  human  rights  and  access  to 
education. It also estimates that 3 million fewer babies 
would die in their first year of life if 120 million more 
women had access to family planning.
My delegation also wishes to express its gratitude to 
the Director-General of the World Health Organization 
(WHO) for the report contained in document A/67/373, 
which  was  prepared  and  submitted  for  consideration 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-61412 (E)
*1261412*
A/67/PV.43
under  the  agenda  item  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit”.  That  report 
states  that  non-communicable  diseases  threaten  the 
population  and  fiscal  health  of  all  nations,  and  that 
greater  action  in  all  countries  and  by  all  stakeholders 
therefore remains imperative. The outcome document of 
the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development, 
future  we  want” 
(A/CONF.216/16),  also  acknowledges  that  the  global 
burden  of  non-communicable  diseases  constitutes  one 
of the major challenges for development today.
entitled 
“The 
It  is  obvious  that  the  primary  role  in,  and 
responsibility  for,  responding  to  the  challenge  of 
non-communicable  diseases  resides  with  national 
Governments.  But  the  complexity  of  the  challenges 
posed by such diseases calls for actions of a multisectoral 
nature  and  for  multi-stakeholder  partnerships  beyond 
Governments.  My  delegation 
therefore  believes 
that  the  five  models  for  global  partnerships  against 
non-communicable  diseases  proposed  in  the  report 
should be given due consideration.
The  report  provides 
interesting  examples  of 
cross-sectoral  Government  engagement  to  reduce  the 
risk  factors  for  non-communicable  diseases,  which 
are  tobacco  use,  physical  inactivity,  alcohol  abuse 
and  an  unhealthy  diet.  According  to  the  report,  a 
survey  conducted  by  WHO  in  2010  found  that  86  per 
cent  of  countries  have  some  form  of  partnerships  or 
collaborations for implementing key activities. Eighty-
three per cent of countries address tobacco use, 81 per 
cent  address  diabetes,  77  per  cent  address  unhealthy 
diet, 77 per cent address cancer and 75 per cent address 
physical inactivity.
traffic 
to  accidents, 
In Mongolia, particular efforts are also being made 
to reduce the risks of alcohol abuse, which has serious 
implications  for  our  country  and  the  health  of  future 
generations.  It  has  become  one  of  the  major  factors 
contributing 
injuries,  crime, 
violence  and  unemployment.  Studies  in  Mongolia 
have  shown  that  alcohol  abuse  is  also  associated  with 
poverty.  Our  efforts  in  that  regard  include,  among 
others,  the  nationwide  promotion  of  public  education 
against  alcohol  consumption  and  an  increase  in  the 
taxes  on  alcohol.  In  2011,  the  President  of  Mongolia 
issued  an  appeal  calling  for  abstention  from  alcohol, 
which received wide support from the Government, the 
private health sector and civil society organizations.
I  would  like  to  inform  this  body  that,  last  year, 
during  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  prevention  and 
control  of  non-communicable  diseases,  Mongolia 
put  forward  an  idea  for  developing  an  international 
convention  on  the  control  of  alcohol  consumption, 
similar to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco 
Control.  We  earnestly  hope  that  that  idea  will  receive 
due  consideration  within  the  framework  of  WHO 
in  the  coming  years.  My  Government  remains  fully 
committed to cooperating on that matter.
While  accelerating  our  efforts  towards  achieving 
all of the MDGs worldwide, we must also work on the 
United  Nations  development  agenda  beyond  2015.  My 
delegation  highly  appreciates  the  steps  undertaken  by 
the  Secretary-General  in  that  regard.  We  believe  that 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  System  Task  Team  on 
that topic greatly contributes to the ongoing processes 
of consultation at various levels. 
Four  interconnected  core  dimensions  proposed  by 
the Task Team can serve as the basis for the definition 
of  the  goals  and  targets  of  future  agendas.  To  support 
the  implementation  of  the  agenda,  as  the  Secretary-
General highlighted in his report, the global partnership 
for  development  would  need  to  be  strengthened  as  a 
responsibility  shared  by  all  countries  and  involving 
all  stakeholders  through  a  well-defined  accountability 
framework.  We  also  look  forward  to  the  report  of  the 
High-Level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  topic  in 
2013.
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  greener  and  more 
sustainable economic development should be adequately 
ref lected in the post-2015 development agenda in order 
to  address  the  widely  shared  need  to  work  towards 
a  single  unified  global  development  agenda  with 
sustainable  development  at  its  core.  We  also  support 
the  observation  that  we  should  have  an  inclusive, 
open  and  transparent  process  with  multi-stakeholder 
participation  through  national,  regional  and  global 
forums, other intergovernmental processes and special 
General  Assembly  meetings  on  development.  In  that 
respect, we are looking forward with great expectation 
to the outcome of a special event to be convened during 
the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
September 2013.
Our  national  implementation  of  the  MDGs  has 
been  evidenced  by  our  fourth  national  report,  which 
noted that 77.9 per cent of the targets had been met, thus 
providing a positive effect on the nation’s development.
Unfortunately,  regression  has  been  seen  in  terms 
of some of the targets, and it is expected that some will 
2 
12-61412
A/67/PV.43
not be met if the current pace continues. Those targets 
include  MDG  1,  on  halving  poverty,  and  MDG  7,  on 
ensuring environmental sustainability and eliminating 
pollution,  which  have  become  issues  of  concern  for 
every  Mongolian.  That  calls  for  stepped-up  national 
action  and  a  greater  focus  on  multilateral  partnership. 
Furthermore,  the  implementation  of  our  MDGs-based 
comprehensive  national  development  strategy  up  to 
2021 is expected to lay the foundation for strengthened, 
inclusive,  equitable  and  sustainable  development  in 
Mongolia beyond 2015.
In conclusion, may I reiterate my delegation’s strong 
resolve  to  work  together  with  fellow  Member  States 
towards  strengthening  the  United  Nations  system,  so 
that  it  remains  an  effective  centre  for  advancing  the 
development  agenda  around  the  world  in  the  years  to 
come.
Mr.  Wangchuk  (Bhutan):  I  shall  confine  my 
comments  to  agenda  item  14,  entitled  “Integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits in the economic, social and related fields”, and 
the follow-up to resolution 65/309. 
The  fundamental  goal  of  every  person  is  to  lead 
a  fulfilling,  meaningful  and  happy  life  is.  In  fact, 
that  is  what  makes  us  human.  It  was  therefore  fitting 
that, on 19 July 2011, through the unanimous adoption 
of  resolution  65/309,  entitled  “Happiness:  towards  a 
holistic  approach  to  development”,  this  body  resolved 
that  it  was  time  to  accept  well-being  and  happiness 
as  a  fundamental  and  universal  goal  that  binds  all 
of  humankind  with  a  common  vision  and  the  quest 
for  a  holistic,  sustainable  and  inclusive  approach  to 
development. 
A  few  months  ago,  the  General  Assembly  also 
declared 20 March as the International Day of Happiness 
(resolution  66/281).  That  day  is  an  opportunity  for 
humankind  to  celebrate  every  precious  component 
that  makes  life  worth  living  and  to  strive  for  genuine 
happiness.
Mandated  by  resolution  65/309,  Bhutan  was 
honoured to host a meeting on 2 April, at United Nations 
Headquarters, on the theme “Happiness and well-being: 
defining a new economic paradigm”. The meeting was a 
gathering of 800 extraordinary minds, including world 
leaders, members of academia and concerned citizens, 
moved  by  the  urgent  need  for  change  to  a  global  path 
that focuses more on human well-being and happiness.
Pursuant  to  the  recommendation  of  that  meeting, 
His  Majesty  King  Jigme  Khesar  Namgyel  Wangchuck 
established  an  international  expert  working  group, 
made up of 50 thought leaders of the world. They have 
been given the crucial responsibility of elaborating the 
details  of  the  proposed  new  development  approach  in 
the coming two years. Simultaneously, His Majesty the 
King  also  appointed  a  national  steering  committee  to 
guide and support the process. 
The working group will elaborate and reﬁ ne the four 
themes,  namely,  well-being  and  happiness,  ecological 
sustainability,  fair  distribution  and  the  efficient  use 
of  resources.  It  will  prepare  a  detailed  report  on  how 
the new development approach can work in practice. It 
will  also  explore  accounting  and  assessment  systems, 
regulatory  and  financial  mechanisms,  and 
trade, 
governance and institutional arrangements. We believe 
that  the  findings  will  complement  and  contribute  to 
the  current  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General’s  High-
level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  and  the  open  working 
group on sustainable development goals and the United 
Nations post-2015 development agenda.
We  welcome  with  appreciation  the  note  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  pursuit  of  well-being  and 
happiness,  which  is  available  via  the  website  of  the 
Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs.  We 
are  greatly  encouraged  by  the  number  of  initiatives 
undertaken  by  Member  States  and 
international 
organizations.
Bhutan  remains  fully  committed  to  the  promotion 
of  a  sustainable  and  progressive  human  civilization 
within a peaceful and secure environment. To advance 
that endeavour, Bhutan is prepared to further share its 
experience and modest development achievements. 
In that regard, Bhutan would like to initiate a draft 
procedural  resolution  on  well-being  and  happiness 
in  the  plenary  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly. The draft resolution will pursue the 
allocation of a new agenda sub-item on the topic under 
sustainable development. We seek the valuable support 
of the Assembly in adopting a consensus resolution to 
better  capture  the  importance  of  the  universal  goal  of 
every  human  being,  namely,  the  pursuit  of  well-being 
and happiness.
Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India): I take the f loor to 
speak on the report of the Secretary-General contained 
in  document  A/67/201.  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  and  to  compliment  him 
12-61412
3
A/67/PV.43
for his extremely informative and well analysed report 
on strengthening the institutional arrangements for the 
support  of  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.
for  Gender  Equality  and 
When  we  established  the  edifice  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women  (UN-Women),  last  year, 
through  resolution  64/289,  we  had  envisaged  it  to  be 
an  ambitious,  results-oriented  and  dynamic  entity 
advancing  the  cause  of  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment  globally.  Today,  as  we  near  the  second 
operational year of UN-Women, my delegation is happy 
to  note  the  significant  milestones  that  the  entity  has 
achieved under the dynamic leadership of Ms. Bachelet, 
in such a short span of time.
The  ways  in  which  UN-Women  has  been  able  to 
inf luence policy narratives across the globe, whether on 
issues such as women’s rights in developing countries, 
services  for  gender-based  violence  survivors  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  or  in  championing  the 
rights of indigenous women in Ecuador, have certainly 
achieved small, yet significant, milestones in a brief but 
important journey.
In  the  South  Asia  region,  UN-Women’s  work 
in  areas  ranging  from  political  participation  and 
leadership,  economic  empowerment,  ending  violence 
against women and gender responsive annual budgeting 
has  been  enabling  critical  factors  in  terms  of  shaping 
national policy narratives.
In  that  regard,  allow  me  to  place  on  record  the 
sincerest  appreciation  for  UN-Women  of  my  nodal 
Ministry,  namely, 
the  Ministry  of  Women  and 
Child  Development,  for  their  active  partnership  and 
constructive advice in the working group on our twelfth 
plan’s  chapter  on  women’s  agency  and  empowerment. 
Its  agenda  of  making  gender  equality  a  lived  reality 
finds  resonance  in  the  overall  policy  approach  of 
the  Government  of  India.  That  agenda  has  also  been 
outlined in the twelfth five-year plan of my country.
UN-Women,  in  partnership  with  the  Government 
of  India,  has  enabled  more  than  half  a  million  elected 
women representatives in five States of India to realize 
their rights and develop their leadership skills through 
the  Promoting  Women’s  Political  Leadership  and 
Governance  in  India  and  South  Asia  programme.  By 
the end of this year, nearly 365 million Indian women 
will  have  been  empowered  by  the  programme,  which 
is  designed  to  build  the  capacity  of  those  women. 
in 
They are now equipped with the knowledge and skills 
to  participate 
local  governance.  UN-Women’s 
programme  on 
the  Dalit  Women’s  Livelihood 
Accountability  Initiative  has  been  assessed  as  highly 
effective in increasing women’s access to entitlements 
provided as part of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural 
Employment Guarantee Act and in securing livelihoods 
for many underprivileged families.
In the field of political empowerment, in States with 
the largest proportion of women in the population, such 
as  Bihar  and  Orissa,  UN-Women  has  helped  women 
candidates  to  file  nominations  and  manage  electoral 
campaigns  in  local  Panchayat  elections  through  a 
campaign assisted by civil society partners.
In  terms  of  macropolicy  partnerships  within  the 
Government,  support  from  UN-Women  to  the  Gender 
Responsive  Budgeting 
the  Ministry 
of  Women  and  Child  Development  has  also  helped 
various ministries develop in-house expertise. Through 
UN-Women’s  training  programmes  and  continuous 
interaction,  more  than  500  Government  counterparts 
have been trained in gender budgeting.
initiative  of 
As  we  draw  close  to  the  end  of  the  second 
operational  year  of  UN-Women,  my  delegation  is 
satisfied to note the progress achieved by that entity as 
it  scales  up  its  operations  and  embarks  on  the  pursuit 
of  its  mandate.  While  we  are  fully  conscious  that  the 
task at hand is enormous, my delegation is encouraged 
by the progress made in reinstating the leading role of 
the United Nations in pursuing gender equality and the 
empowerment  of  women  under  the  able  leadership  of 
Ms. Michelle Bachelet.
India  is  home  to  more  than  500  million  women, 
and we are firmly convinced that ensuring the rightful 
place of women in society is not only a moral imperative 
but  also  an  essential  prerequisite  for  achieving  peace, 
prosperity and sustainable development.
in 
Our  well-recognized  success 
the  political 
empowerment of women is transforming the traditional 
and entrenched power dynamic in both rural and urban 
India.  Women  are  finding  their  rightful  place  in  all 
walks  of  professional  and  political  life,  ranging  from 
the  highest  echelons  of  the  corporate  empire  to  the 
Government  bureaucracy.  They  occupy  the  highest 
offices  in  India,  including,  at  present,  those  of  the 
Speaker of the lower house of Parliament and the leader 
of the opposition and, until a few months back, the Office 
of  the  President  of  India.  More  importantly,  today, 
4 
12-61412
more than 1 million women serve on local Government 
bodies, where they exercise decision-making authority 
on an almost daily basis.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  India’s  steadfast 
commitment  to  the  global,  regional  and  national 
efforts  to  achieve  gender  equality,  the  empowerment 
of  women  and  gender  mainstreaming,  as  outlined  in 
the  Secretary-General’s  report.  We  assure  members 
that  India  will  not  be  found  wanting  in  support  and 
cooperation in realizing the shared vision that Member 
States envisaged in the creation of UN-Women.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with resolution 57/32, of 19 November 2002, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union.
Mr.  Johnsson  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I  take 
the  f loor  to  speak  on  agenda  item  113,  on  the  follow-
up  to  the  outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit.  When 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  was 
adopted  in  2000,  it  was  greeted  with  great  hope.  An 
important  highlight  was,  of  course,  the  establishment 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as a set 
of  commitments  that  all  countries  could  realistically 
achieve within the span of 15 years.
With  only  three  years  left  until  the  target  date  for 
the implementation of the MDGs, the record is mixed. 
Globally,  some  of  the  Goals  appear  to  be  on  track  but 
the  picture  becomes  less  clear  the  moment  we  look  at 
the individual scorecards of most countries. With only 
a short time left before 2015, we cannot afford to waste 
a day. We must all collectively continue to work hard to 
fill significant gaps.
For  several  years  now,  the  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union  (IPU)  has  helped  raise  awareness  of  the  MDGs 
among  parliamentarians.  We  have  done  that  through 
a  number  of  debates  and  resolutions  that  provide  a 
consensus  approach  to  the  various  Goals.  We  have 
also  achieved  that  by  helping  parliaments  strengthen 
their  capacities  to  oversee  Government  action,  adopt 
enabling legislation and make budgetary decisions that 
are  in  alignment  with  the  development  priorities  of 
each country. 
While  recognizing  that  all  of  the  Goals  are 
important, we have chosen to focus particularly on the 
health-related  Goals,  that  is,  those  on  maternal  and 
child  mortality  and  HIV/AIDS,  which,  in  our  view, 
play  a  key  role  in  removing  a  number  of  significant 
A/67/PV.43
obstacles.  In  support  of  Goal  3,  on  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment,  we  continue  to  invest 
considerable  resources  in  promoting  the  participation 
of women in politics. We are also working to strengthen 
development cooperation as a key to the realization of 
the MDGs and, indeed, of the development agenda as a 
whole. That can be seen, for instance, in our very active 
engagement  within 
the  Development  Cooperation 
Forum and, more recently, in the Busan Partnership for 
Effective Development Cooperation.
Finally, and most critically, we have been working 
to evaluate some of the institutional mechanisms, such 
as  parliamentary  committees  or  caucuses,  which  may 
help parliaments organize their work around the MDGs 
through  their  key  functions  of  oversight,  legislation 
and  representation.  In  many  of  those  activities,  we 
have  enjoyed  a  good  partnership  with  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme and its Millennium Campaign.
While  acceleration  towards  achieving  the  MDGs 
must  remain  our  primary  obligation  at  this  critical 
junction,  it  is  also  important  to  take  stock  of  lessons 
that we should have learned by now as the international 
community  begins 
to  chart  a  new  post-2015 
development  framework.  From  the  IPU  perspective, 
the  most  important  lesson  has  been  that  of  ensuring 
the early involvement of parliaments in the shaping of 
development  goals.  That  is  critical  in  order  to  ensure 
national ownership and accountability across the board 
and will, eventually, also help support implementation 
through  the  whole  legislative  process.  That  is  why 
we  are  very  pleased  to  see  that  the  resolution  adopted 
in  June  on  interaction  between  the  United  Nations, 
national  parliaments  and  the  IPU  contains  a  clear 
reference  to  encouraging  parliaments  to  contribute  to 
the design of the next generation of development goals 
(resolution 66/261).
In order to deliver on that call, the IPU has begun 
to work with parliaments to facilitate their involvement 
in 
the  post-2015  development  consultations  now 
under  way,  both  globally  and  at  the  country  level.  We 
welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  of 
Eminent  Persons,  which  has  already  begun  its  work, 
as  well  as  the  open  working  group  that  is  tasked  with 
focusing specifically on a new generation of sustainable 
development goals. Pursuant to both of those processes, 
we  are  planning  a  series  of  consultations  with 
parliamentarians  that  will,  hopefully,  inject  a  strong 
parliamentary perspective into the deliberations.
12-61412
5
A/67/PV.43
Among  other  things,  the  IPU  is  working  with 
the  Millennium  Campaign  and  other  United  Nations 
partners  at  the  regional  and  the  subregional  levels  to 
help  gather  the  views  of  parliaments,  with  due  regard 
for regional particularities. Consultations have already 
taken place in Africa and are under way in Asia. Another 
important building block in the process is the 128th IPU 
Assembly, to be held in Ecuador in March of next year 
and  whose  theme  will  be  rethinking  the  development 
model  in  terms  of  well-being,  rather  than  in  terms  of 
economic  growth  alone.  Again,  in  cooperation  with 
our United Nations partners, we will use the Assembly 
in  Quito  to  compile  a  survey  of  parliamentarians  and 
to  discuss  specific  aspects  of  the  future  development 
framework  at  various  moments  during  the  general 
debate,  as  well  as  through  a  specialized  workshop. 
Meanwhile, we are looking for practical ways to engage 
parliamentarians  in  the  national  consultations  that  are 
expected to take place by the end of next March, as well 
as  in  a  number  of  electronic  consultations  that  are  in 
the pipeline at various United Nations sites. All of those 
efforts will culminate in next year’s joint parliamentary 
hearing at the United Nations, here in New York, where 
parliamentarians from around the world will review the 
concrete  proposals  that  are  expected  to  emerge  from 
the various United Nations processes.
As with Governments, the views of parliamentarians 
on  the  contents  of  a  post-2015  development  agenda 
can  be  expected  to  range  widely  both  in  scope  and 
in  direction.  However,  some  issues  have  already 
arisen  in  our  discussions,  namely,  the  central  roles  of 
democracy and development cooperation. The problem 
of development is not only economic but also political. 
Unequal access to and participation in decision-making, 
which  often  f lows  out  of  an  unequal  distribution  of 
incomes  and  wealth,  confrontational  politics  where 
the  winner  takes  all,  and  other  such  imbalances,  are 
the root caused of many development failures. Because 
democratic  governance  must  underpin  all  areas  of 
development policy, it must also then find expression in 
the  future  sustainable  development  goals  with  clearly 
defined  indicators  or  objectives.  We  propose  to  come 
back  to  the  General  Assembly  at  a  future  date  with 
some suggestions as to how that can be done.
Equally  important,  the  post-2015  development 
framework  will  have  to  be  accompanied  by  a  clear 
commitment  to  financing.  Just  as  the  MDGs  have 
been  handicapped  by  financing  of  both  poor  quality 
and  insufficient  quantity,  the  success  of  the  future 
sustainable  development  goals  will  depend  in  part  on 
the formulation of a successor goal to current MDG 8, 
on  developing  a  global  partnership  for  development. 
The  new  goal,  however  formulated,  will  of  course 
need  to  ref lect  the  current  landscape  of  development 
cooperation, with its multiplicity of public and private 
actors and corresponding f lows.
In conclusion, the next three years will be decisive, 
not only for the implementation of the current MDGs as 
a key platform of the original Millennium Declaration 
but  also  for  the  definition  of  a  common  vision  of  the 
future. As it became most evident at the Rio Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  last  June,  the  world 
community is at a turning point in more ways than one, 
and strong leadership will be required as we approach 
some  very  difficult  decisions.  The  Assembly  can  rest 
assured of the support of the IPU in the journey ahead.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with General Assembly resolution 58/83 of 
9  December  2003,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the 
International  Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral 
Assistance.
(International 
Institute 
Mr.  Tommasoli 
for 
Democracy and Electoral Assistance): The International 
Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral  Assistance 
(International  IDEA)  commends  Mongolia  for  the 
leadership  role  that  it  has  played  in  the  promotion  of 
the  draft  resolution  on  education  for  development 
(A/67/L.25),  and  welcomes 
the  consideration  of 
the  draft  resolution  and  its  adoption.  We  strongly 
support  the  draft  resolution’s  encouragement  of  the 
integration  of  education  for  democracy  into  national 
education  standards  and  the  development  of  national 
and  subnational  programmes  through  both  curricular 
and  extracurricular  activities.  Furthermore,  given  the 
mobility  of  students,  existing  regional  institutional 
education  frameworks  and  the  limited  harmonization 
of curricula, cooperation and collaboration in the field 
of education for democracy at the regional level should 
also be strengthened.
There is solid evidence that doing so can contribute 
to  citizens’  empowerment  and  their  participation 
in  political  life  and  policymaking  at  all  levels.  Our 
experience, as well as the work of many United Nations 
funds, agencies and programmes, and other international 
organizations,  shows  that  investing  in  education  is 
important  for  both  democracy  and  development.  It 
is  possibly  the  most  effective  way  of  simultaneously 
6 
12-61412
generating  impacts  on  human  development  and  the 
consolidation of democratic institutions and processes.
the 
The  truth  of  that  assertion  can  be  seen  from  two 
different  and  interlinked  perspectives:  the  right  to 
education  and  the  transformative  power  of  education 
for 
the  development  of  democratic  governance. 
As  regards  the  first  perspective,  any  democratic 
constitution  enshrines  and  guarantees 
right 
to  education.  That  is  a  fundamental  issue  for  the 
assessment  of  whether  economic  and  social  rights  are 
equally  guaranteed  for  all.  For  example,  the  state-of-
democracy  assessment  methodology  developed  by 
International IDEA and applied by citizens groups and 
organizations in over 20 countries, contains a question 
on how extensive and inclusive the right to education, 
including education in the rights and responsibilities of 
citizenship, is in a given country. As witnessed by the 
debates  on  the  constitutional  reforms  accompanying 
political  transitions,  not  least  in  the  Arab  region,  the 
constitutional  dimension  of  the  right  to  education  is 
one  of  the  most  important  issues  addressed.  It  has  a 
direct  impact  on  an  inclusive  concept  of  citizenship, 
especially in relation to gender equality.
The second perspective — the transformative power 
of education for democracy — is particularly important 
for  democracy-building  and  democracy  assistance.  In 
the electoral field it has a direct impact on democratic 
values,  practices  and  behaviours.  In  fact,  education 
for  democracy  is  directly  linked  to  voter  education 
and  therefore  contributes  to  one  of  most  visible  and 
traditional  forms  of  democratic  participation.  But 
it  is  equally  important  in  other  areas  of  democracy-
building,  like  parliamentary  support  and  political 
party  development.  In  fact,  education  for  democracy 
and  the  consolidation  of  a  democratic  constitutional 
culture  shape  the  institutions  and  the  substance  of 
democratic  dialogue  among  political  stakeholders.  It 
should ultimately contribute to effective legislative and 
executive  action  within  the  framework  of  democratic 
accountability.
International IDEA, in partnership with the United 
Nations  and  other  international  actors,  has  developed 
a  global  training  curriculum  on  electoral  processes, 
known  as  Building  Resources 
for  Democracy, 
Governance and Elections (BRIDGE), which is widely 
used  in  political  transitions  for  training  election 
administrators  using  adult  education  techniques.  It  is 
no coincidence that one of the key modules of BRIDGE 
focuses on civic education, covering such areas as the 
A/67/PV.43
rationale  for  citizen  participation  in  the  democratic 
processes;  strategies  for  increasing  the  participation 
of key stakeholder groups and beneficiaries, including 
youth, media, women, and people with disabilities; and 
techniques  for  identifying  the  different  educational 
needs  of  all  stakeholders  in  civic  education  processes 
by  considering  both  community-based  and  school-
based  civic  education.  That  example  underscores 
the  importance  of  adult  education  alongside  formal 
education for the attainment of the objectives set in the 
resolution that is being considered today. Education for 
democracy is, in fact, a lifelong endeavour.
In  conclusion,  International  IDEA  welcomes  the 
recognition  by  the  draft  resolution  that  education  is 
key to the strengthening of democratic institutions, the 
realization of human rights and the achievement of all 
international goals, including the MDGs. In the MDG 
context, education is an enabler at many levels. At the 
same time, education is also one of the goals of the MDG 
framework, with specific indicators and targets, and a 
crucial factor for the consolidation and development of 
democratic institutions and the achievement of the other 
MDGs. International IDEA thinks that the interlinkages 
between  education,  democratic  institutions  and  the 
MDGs should be further stressed in the ongoing policy 
debates regarding the post-2015 development agenda.
International 
to 
strengthening  its  partnership  with  the  United  Nations 
to promote education for democracy.
IDEA 
stands 
committed 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  consider 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.25,  entitled  “Education  for 
democracy”.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  In  connection  with 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.25,  entitled  “Education  for 
democracy”,  I  wish  to  put  on  record  the  following 
statement  of  financial  implications  on  behalf  of  the 
Secretary-General,  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the 
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
In  paragraphs  7  and  9  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
General  Assembly  would  invite  the  United  Nations 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  education  to 
seek,  in  close  cooperation  with  Member  States,  the 
views  of  Governments,  United  Nations  agencies 
12-61412
7
A/67/PV.43
and  programmes,  civil  society  and  other  relevant 
United  Nations  mandate  holders,  in  order  to  consider 
including,  in  his  next  report  to  the  General  Assembly 
at its sixty-ninth session, an update on Member States’ 
efforts  in  the  field  of  education  for  democracy;  and 
invite  Governments,  agencies  and  organizations  of 
the  United  Nations  system,  and  intergovernmental 
and  non-governmental  organizations, 
intensify 
their  efforts  to  promote  education  for  democracy; 
and  request  the  Secretary-General,  within  existing 
reporting obligations, to report to the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session  on  the  implementation  of  the 
present resolution.
to 
The  request  for  documentation  contained 
in 
paragraphs  7  and  9  will  constitute  an  addition  to  the 
documentation workload of the Department for General 
Assembly and Conference Management corresponding 
to  an  estimated  amount  of  $113,200,  which  would  be 
included  in  the  proposed  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium  2014-2015.  Hence  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/67/L.25  would 
not  entail  any  additional  appropriation  under  the 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/67/L.25.
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.25,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Austria,  Belgium, 
Costa  Rica,  Cyprus,  the  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  France,  Greece,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Latvia, 
Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  San 
Marino, Serbia, Slovenia, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/67/L.25?
Draft resolution A/67/L.25 was adopted (resolution 
67/18).
The  Acting  President 
in  Spanish): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda items 14, 113 and 119.
(spoke 
The meeting rose at 3.55 p.m.
8 
12-61412
