United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
35th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 13 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.35
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 41
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/118)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.2)
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  on 
agenda  item  41,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. I would 
like,  first  of  all,  to  acknowledge  the  presence  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  expresses  its  deep 
concern at the continuation of the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  unilaterally  imposed  for  half  a 
century  now  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba.
law, 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  states,  as  it  has 
done  on  many  occasions  before,  that  the  embargo 
against  Cuba  contravenes  the  fundamental  norms  of 
international 
law, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms  and 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States. 
Its  continued  imposition  violates  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  of  non-intervention 
and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs.
international  humanitarian 
The  measures  announced  by  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  two  years  ago  related  to  a  certain 
relaxation  of  restrictions  on  travel  and  the  transfer  of 
remittances  have  had  a  very  limited  effect  and  have 
not  changed  the  framework  of  laws,  regulations  and 
provisions  of  the  embargo,  which  is  still  in  place.  In 
fact, the embargo continues to impose severe economic 
and  financial  restrictions  on  Cuba.  The  embargo 
has  caused,  and  continues  to  cause,  a  high  degree  of 
economic and financial damage, has a negative impact 
on  the  welfare  and  well-being  of  the  people  of  Cuba 
and constitutes a very significant hindrance to Cuba’s 
economic and social development.
The  deepening  impact  of  the  ongoing  global 
economic and financial crisis and the continued embargo 
by  the  Government  of  the  United  States,  including 
by  imposing  sanctions  and  applying  extraterritorial 
national 
third  countries’  citizens, 
institutions  and  companies  that  establish  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  relations  with  Cuba,  will 
contribute to further aggravating the hardships for the 
people of Cuba.
laws  against 
Furthermore, 
the  embargo 
frustrates  efforts 
towards  the  achievement  of  all  the  internationally 
agreed  developed  goals,  including  the  all-important 
Millennium Development Goals, and negatively affects 
regional cooperation in the area.
The Group of 77 and China has always been firmly 
against the embargo. At the second South Summit, held 
in  Doha  in  2005,  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  firmly  rejected  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-58675 (E)
*1258675*
A/67/PV.35
imposition of laws and regulations with extraterritorial 
impact  and  all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic 
measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions  against 
developing countries, and called upon the Government 
of  the  United  States  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba, 
which,  in  addition  to  being  unilateral  and  contrary 
to  the  Charter,  international  law  and  the  principle  of 
good-neighbourliness, causes huge material losses and 
economic damage to the people of Cuba.
the 
Today,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like  to 
reiterate  once  again  its  long-standing  and  principled 
position  on  this  important  matter,  and  recalls  the 
ministerial  declaration  of 
thirty-sixth  annual 
meeting  of  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Group, held in New York in September. The Ministers 
firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and  regulations 
with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other  forms  of 
coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral 
sanctions  against  developing  countries,  and  reiterated 
the  urgent  need  to  eliminate  them  immediately.  They 
emphasized that such actions not only undermined the 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
and international law, but also severely threatened the 
freedom of trade and investment. They therefore called 
on  the  international  community  to  neither  recognize 
those measures nor apply them.
We recall that, last year, 186 Member States voted in 
favour of the resolution introduced by the representative 
of  Cuba  (resolution  66/6).  That  represented  an 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
demanding  the  end  to  the  five-decades-old  embargo 
and  full  adherence  to  the  principles  of  mutual  respect 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  a  State 
Member of the United Nations.
The Group of 77 and China is committed to working 
for  the  achievement  of  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations. Such a goal requires adherence by all nations 
to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, to 
the peaceful conduct of relations among nations and to 
the rule of law, including international law.
The Group of 77 and China will again fully support 
the draft resolution against the embargo (A/67/L.2) and 
urges all Member States to do so.
The President: Before giving the f loor to the next 
speaker, I would like to propose that the list of speakers 
for the debate on this item now be closed. Unless I hear 
any  objection,  I  shall  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees 
to that proposal.
It was so decided.
Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address the General Assembly on behalf of the 14 member 
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
namely, Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, 
Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Jamaica, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago. 
CARICOM  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China, as well as with those to be made by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement and by the representative 
of Chile on behalf of the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States.
This  is  the  twenty-first  consecutive  occasion  that 
we  meet  in  this  forum  to  raise  the  sustained  chorus 
of  opposition  to  the  United  States  imposition  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
the Republic of Cuba. While in some parts of the world 
twenty-first  birthdays  are  especially  commemorated, 
the  twenty-first  year  of  the  adoption  of  the  annual 
draft  resolution  on  the  Cuban  embargo  should  instead 
give  the  Assembly  pause  for  ref lection.  The  embargo 
has persisted for too long, in spite of the unambiguous 
reproof of an overwhelming majority of Member States, 
as  demonstrated  by  the  annual  adoption  of  the  text  of 
the draft resolution before us (A/67/L.2).
In  view  of  the  significant  challenges  that  the 
hemisphere of the Americas has faced, it is all the more 
regrettable that this measure continues to be unilaterally 
applied. The recent passage of hurricane Sandy through 
the  Caribbean  region  at  the  end  of  October,  prior  to 
its  landfall  on  the  eastern  coast  of  the  United  States, 
brings clearly to the fore one of our region’s most real 
and  present  threats.  However,  it  has  also  revealed  a 
resilience of spirit and unity that emerges as one of our 
greatest  strengths.  In  that  regard,  CARICOM  wishes 
to  express  its  collective  regret  and  sadness  at  the  loss 
of  life  and  damage  wrought  by  this  hurricane  within 
the countries of the Caribbean, including on the eastern 
coast of Cuba and, more recently, in the United States 
of America.
With the increasing frequency of natural disasters 
and the persistent impact of the global economic crisis, 
2 
12-58675
the  unacceptable  humanitarian  cost  of  the  embargo 
is  becoming  even  more  acute.  Cuba’s  safety,  advance 
preparedness and pace of recovery are compromised by 
the embargo’s many direct and indirect effects. Indeed, 
it is in such times of national crisis that the fundamental 
injustice of the Cuban embargo is brought into sharpest 
relief.  When  viewed  in  the  light  of  the  generosity  and 
self less  assistance  that  Cuba  has  kindly  accorded  to 
other States in times of need, the unilateral application 
of the embargo against Cuba is seen to be especially ill-
conceived. Such events underscore the significant need 
not for intensification of punitive measures but, rather, 
for  greater  regional  and  international  cooperation  and 
solidarity.
As  a  bloc  of  States  that  are  small  in  size,  the 
Caribbean  Community  attaches  great  value  to  the 
strength  that  lies  in  collective  capacity,  will  and  a 
firm  stance  on  common  principles  that  promote  our 
shared  objectives.  Those  principles  include  adherence 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  multilateralism, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the 
Caribbean  Community  has  remained  unstinting  in  its 
solidarity  with  Cuba  and  in  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
embargo, which runs counter to both the letter and spirit 
of the Charter and serves no justifiable legal, political 
or  moral  purpose  within  contemporary  international 
relations.
The annual report of the Secretary-General on the 
embargo,  contained  in  document  A/67/118,  presents 
an  impressive  catalogue  of  submissions  by  some 
145  Member  States.  They  reveal  a  shared  perspective 
of  opposition  to  the  unilateral  application  of  the 
embargo  and  its  many  extraterritorial  effects,  as  well 
as  support  for  respecting  the  purposes  and  principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law. Also striking, in that regard, are the submissions of 
some 26 entities of the United Nations system, detailing 
the  reach  of  the  embargo  even  into  their  manner  of 
conducting work in Cuba.
Despite such signiﬁ cant challenges, Cuba continues 
to  show  itself  to  be  a  key  regional  and  international 
partner and actor. CARICOM member States, in keeping 
with our policy of mutual respect, good-neighbourliness 
and  respect  for  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  have  a  camaraderie  with  Cuba  that 
has  remained  cordial  and  resilient  even  through  a 
continually  evolving  hemispheric  and  international 
geopolitical  landscape.  Cuba  maintains  Embassies  in 
all independent countries of the Caribbean Community 
A/67/PV.35
and continues to show itself to be an integral part of the 
Caribbean. In that context, CARICOM and Cuba have 
developed  and  enjoy  mutually  beneficial  programmes 
of  cooperation  and  trade  in  a  number  of  key  areas, 
including  physical  education  and  sports,  accounting, 
the  natural  sciences,  the  humanities,  the  economy, 
special education, health and medicine. In that regard, 
CARICOM also profoundly appreciates Cuba’s proposal 
for  other  areas  of  cooperation  with  the  Community, 
such  as  the  treatment  of  physical  disabilities,  the  arts, 
language training, agriculture and fisheries, water and 
infrastructure.
In the Caribbean alone, Cuba has built hospitals and 
clinics, provided medicines and furnished doctors, nurses 
and  other  health-care  professionals  —  contributions 
that  continue  to  be  received  and  remembered  with 
the  utmost  appreciation.  Students  from  the  Caribbean 
Community have benefited from university educations 
in  Cuba  free  of  charge,  and  Cuba  has  unselfishly 
extended  much  generosity  to  the  CARICOM  member 
State  of  Haiti,  following  the  devastating  earthquake 
there.  During  the  fourth  CARICOM-Cuba  Summit, 
held  in  December  2011  in  Port-of-Spain,  the  Heads  of 
State and Government of CARICOM issued a statement 
strongly rejecting the imposition of the embargo and its 
extraterritorial  effects,  and  celebrated  the  outcome  of 
the Summit in its reinforcement of the strong fraternal 
bonds between CARICOM and Cuba.
The  CARICOM  member  States  also  continue  to 
value  and  enjoy  long-established,  warm  and  friendly 
relations with the United States of America. It is in that 
spirit that we urge its Government to heed the calls of 
the international community to end the embargo. In that 
regard, we also encourage engagement in a constructive 
process  of  dialogue  and  normalization  of  relations. 
We  believe  that  would  be  in  the  interest  of  all  parties 
and  would  significantly  contribute  to  greater  peaceful 
development and cooperation within the Americas.
At  the  risk  of  discrediting  our  efficacy  as  an 
organization,  we  must  not  be  content  to  be  a  mere 
symbol of change. Accordingly, CARICOM delegations 
fully  support  the  draft  resolution  before  the  General 
Assembly entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”,  and  we  will 
vote in favour of its adoption.
Mr. Lima (Cape Verde): Speaking on behalf of the 
African Group on this perennial and critical item, allow 
me to start by voicing the African Group’s support for 
12-58675
3
A/67/PV.35
the statements just made on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and the Caribbean Community.
Last  year,  the  Assembly  heard  an  overwhelming 
majority make repeated calls for an end to the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba.  Today,  we  presume,  will  be  no  exception,  as 
countries around the world ask for more positive action 
in  dealing  with  the  decisive  challenges  and  threats  of 
today. The possibility of remaining silent in the face of 
this blockade of Cuba, whose people continue to suffer 
its  adverse  consequences,  has  been  inconceivable  for 
Africa and many other regions. The situation has been 
characterized as a negation and f lagrant violation of the 
cherished universal principles of the sovereign equality 
and territorial integrity of all States, big and small.
In  a  resolution  adopted  at  the  African  Union 
summit  in  July  2012,  African  leaders  reiterated  their 
call  inviting  the  United  States  of  America  to  lift  the 
long-standing and unjust economic and trade embargo 
imposed on the people of the Republic of Cuba. 
Africa’s  vote  today  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.2  will  be  a  concrete  step  in  advancing  the 
position taken by the African Union at its summit. As 
Winston Churchill said, 
“Criticism may not be agreeable, but it is necessary. 
It  fulfils  the  same  function  as  pain  in  the  human 
body.  It  calls  attention  to  an  unhealthy  state  of 
things.” 
At  this  point,  I  would  like  to  make  reference  to 
the  successful  conclusion  of  the  High-level  Meeting 
on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International 
Levels (see A/67/PV.3), held in September. The General 
Assembly’s  status  quo  on  this  situation  runs  counter 
to  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Declaration  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  (resolution  67/1),  highlighting,  among 
other  things,  the  aspirations  of  all  leaders  to  a  more 
equitable  and  just  world.  It  is  also  counterproductive 
for Cuba’s progress towards achieving the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  as  well  as  an  obstruction  to 
advancing  regional  integration  in  that  region  of  the 
western hemisphere. 
We  think  that  the  path  of  history  today  is  built 
by  and  open  to  those  who  decidedly  choose  openness 
and  an  outstretched-hand  policy,  instead  of  other,  less 
productive ways. Political will is more than ever needed 
everywhere. Today, more and more leaders in the world 
understand  that  no  people  in  the  twenty-first  century 
will accept to live under castigation, oppression or lack 
of dignity. “For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s 
chains but to live in a way that respects and enhances 
the freedom of others”, said Nelson Mandela. 
In closing, I would like to join others on behalf of 
the African Group to extend our deepest condolences to 
all countries affected by Hurricane Sandy for the loss of 
life and property. 
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
the honour to address the General Assembly on behalf 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States (CELAC) on the occasion of the presentation of 
draft resolution A/67/L.2, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
Since 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  47/19  on 
24 November 1992, the General Assembly has adopted 
every  year  a  resolution  emphasizing  the  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba. It will be recalled that, at its sixty-sixth 
session,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
66/6  with  the  same  title  by  an  overwhelming  majority 
of  Member  States.  Since  1992,  20  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly, the most representative organ of the 
United Nations, have called for an end to the embargo 
imposed against Cuba.
It  is  important  to  place  on  record  the  reasons 
underlying  the  convictions  of  CELAC  on  this  subject. 
The  main  reason  is  that,  in  our  view,  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  is 
contrary  to  the  letter,  spirit,  principles  and  purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  enshrines 
rights,  obligations  and  principles  that  have  become 
part  of  the  legal  corpus  not  only  of  international  law, 
but of humankind. That corpus must not be violated or 
undermined by any Member State. 
Member  States  must  align  their  national  and 
international behaviour with the rights, obligations and 
principles enshrined in our constituent Charter. In that 
connection,  CELAC  reiterates  the  full  applicability 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the 
principles  enshrined  in  it,  including  the  principles 
of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention 
and  non-interference  in  internal  affairs,  freedom  of 
trade and navigation, and the principle of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
4 
12-58675
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  against  Cuba  began  in  1959  and  continues 
to  this  day.  We  observe  that  the  embargo  has  been 
transformed into a strict system of unilateral measures 
that  has  continued  over  time  and  is  creating  huge 
injustices  for  the  Cuban  people.  The  embargo  in 
itself,  as  a  unilateral  measure,  runs  contrary  to  the 
multilateralism,  openness  and  dialogue  promoted  by 
the Charter of the United Nations.
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States reiterates its concern, expressed in resolution 66/6, 
regarding  the  application  by  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations of laws and regulations, such as the so-
called  Helms-Burton  Act,  the  extraterritorial  effects 
of  which  affect  the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  the 
legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction, and the freedom of trade and navigation.
The unilateral measures applied under the embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba  are  affecting  many  companies 
that  conduct  business  with  Cuba  in  accordance  with 
international  law,  including  the  norms  established 
by  the  World  Trade  Organization.  In  the  past  year, 
several  restrictions  and  fines  have  been  imposed 
on  international  companies,  some  belonging  to  the 
members of our Community.
that  at 
We  recall 
the  CELAC  summit  held 
in  Caracas,  Venezuela,  on  3  December  2011,  the 
States  members  of  our  Community  issued  a  special 
communiqué on the need to put an end to the economic, 
trade  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States on Cuba, in which they reiterated their strongest 
condemnation of the application of laws and measures 
contrary to international law, such as the Helms-Burton 
Act,  including  its  extraterritorial  effect,  and  called  on 
the Government of the United States to put an end to the 
application of that Act.
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States  supports  the  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”. We emphasize the inconsistency 
between the application of unilateral measures that have 
no  backing  in  international  law  and  the  letter,  spirit, 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. We urge the United States of America to make 
the necessary adjustments to its international behaviour 
in this regard, aligning its national legislation with the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations and the views of the countries of Latin 
A/67/PV.35
America  and  the  Caribbean  and,  in  general,  of  all  the 
regions of the world
We recall the appeal made by our heads of State in 
Caracas on 3 December 2011 to the Government of the 
United States of America, 
“in  accordance  with  the  successive  resolutions 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly 
and in response to repeated calls from the countries 
of Latin America and the Caribbean, to put an end 
to the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against Cuba” (A/67/118, p. 12).
the  support 
CELAC  appreciates 
traditionally 
given  to  the  draft  resolution  introduced  today  for  the 
consideration  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  refers 
to  the  adverse  effects  inf licted  on  one  of  our  member 
States.  We  also  appeal  to  the  States  members  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  heed  the  force  of  the  arguments 
and the evidence provided by the facts and oppose the 
unilateral  measures  undermining  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  its  principles  and  spirit,  as  well  as 
international law and its institutions.
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): I have the pleasure, 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), to deliver the following 
statement in my country’s capacity as Chair of the OIC 
group.
We  offer  our  sincerest  condolences  to  and  stand 
in  solidarity  with  the  Governments  and  people  of  all 
countries  affected  by  Hurricane  Sandy  for  the  tragic 
loss of life and the devastation it has caused.
We  express  our  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General 
for his report on the necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba (A/67/118). The 
report  once  again  indicates  that,  besides  the  Member 
States, the United Nations system, various international 
forums and non-governmental organizations have also 
tirelessly and repeatedly expressed their rejection of the 
unilaterally imposed sanctions on Cuba.
It  is  important  to  recall  that  the  Assembly  first 
decided to include the current item as a critical item on 
its  agenda  in  1991.  The  discussion  continues  20  years 
later,  with  little  progress  to  record. We  therefore  wish 
to address the situation with a sense of great urgency.
The activities of the OIC are guided by the principles 
of international law. The OIC upholds the right of every 
nation to follow its own and unique way of development 
12-58675
5
A/67/PV.35
and  therefore  condemns  any  form  of  unilateral  action 
that  affects  the  sovereignty  and  interests  of  another 
State and its people.
We  have  recently  seen  dramatic  changes  in  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  demonstrating  the 
people’s  struggle  to  steer  the  course  of  their  own 
development.  Those  have  resulted 
in  unexpected 
and  profound  political  transformations.  Hence,  the 
application  of  justice  cannot  be  confined  only  to  the 
national level. It should also extend to the international 
sphere and to relationships among Member States.
The OIC does not agree with any external regulations 
that  infringe,  impede  or  delay  the  development  of  any 
country,  including  in  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial spheres. Some of the measures meant to relax 
restrictions have had only limited effect, as the embargo 
is  still  in  place,  thus  severely  impacting  the  overall 
well-being  of  the  Cuban  people.  Further,  the  embargo 
frustrates  efforts  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. It has impeded efforts to eradicate 
poverty and violated basic human rights to food, health 
and  education,  humanitarian  assistance  and  overall 
national progress. 
The already harsh situation in the country is further 
aggravated  by  the  ever-more  frequent  and  devastating 
storms  and  hurricanes  caused  by  climate  change  and 
Cuba’s  geographical  susceptibility  to  such  natural 
disasters.
The OIC underlines that the imposition of arbitrary 
unilateral laws contradicts the regulations and directions 
of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  which  prohibit  the 
adoption of measures likely to hinder international free 
trade and shipping and the widest partnership possible 
between two partners.
Finally,  the  OIC,  like  the  overwhelming  majority 
of  the  international  community,  calls  for  lifting  the 
embargo  on  Cuba  in  accordance  with  the  principles 
and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and 
relevant General Assembly resolutions.
Mrs.  Ribeiro  Viotti  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have the honour to speak on behalf of the States members 
of  the  Southern  Common  Market  (MERCOSUR).  The 
associated States of Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador 
and Peru also join in this statement.
First,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  presence  of 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba.  MERCOSUR  was  founded  on  the 
principles  of  solidarity,  interdependence  and  good-
neighbourly  relations.  We  believe  that  tolerance  is 
the  foundation  that  has  made  possible  the  historic 
convergence  on  our  continent  of  peoples  from  all 
corners  of  the  world.  We  are  linked  to  our  Latin 
American  neighbours  by  the  desire  to  live  in  peace, 
promote  mutual  understanding,  defend  independence 
and equality among States, including sovereignty, and 
to promote respect for international law.
MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States  believe 
that  the  embargo  against  Cuba  violates  the  principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the norms of 
international  law,  in  particular  equality  among  States, 
non-interference in their internal affairs and the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  Moreover,  it  contravenes  the 
norms  of  the  multilateral  trading  system  that  link 
members of the World Trade Organization. 
The embargo violates the principles of justice and 
human  rights.  It  generates  shortages  and  suffering 
for  the  entire  Cuban  population.  It  limits  and  delays 
economic  and  social  progress,  and  prevents 
the 
achievement  of 
international  development  goals, 
including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
therefore lament the fact that the unilaterally imposed 
embargo  against  Cuba  continues  unchanged.  We  also 
see an increase in restrictions on financial transactions 
between Cuba and third countries that prevent greater 
transparency through direct dialogue.
The  States  members  of  MERCOSUR  and 
associated  States  reject,  out  of  principle,  unilateral 
and  extraterritorial  measures.  We  believe  that  those 
measures  cause  irreparable  harm  to  the  well-being  of 
peoples  and  obstruct  regional  integration  processes. 
We also condemn the application of unilateral, coercive 
measures  that  contravene  the  principles  of  free  trade. 
In  again  reaffirming  our  unwavering  support  for  the 
draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/67/L.2, 
MERCOSUR  and 
reiterate 
our  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a  legitimate 
instrument for settling disputes and an effective way to 
promote  international  cooperation  and  understanding 
among peoples.
its  associated  States 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba  is  nothing  but  than  an  example  of 
obsolete policies that have no place in today’s world. In 
adopting the draft resolution, the Assembly will prove 
once  again  its  undeniable  political  will  to  defend  the 
ideals of freedom, solidarity and respect for sovereignty 
and international law.
6 
12-58675
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the pleasure to address the General Assembly today on 
behalf  of  the  120  Members  of  the  United  Nations  that 
are members of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome 
to Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, and to express to him and the people of 
Cuba the Movement’s full support and solidarity.
I  also  extend  our  deep  condolences 
the 
Governments  and  peoples  of  all  countries  affected 
by  Hurricane  Sandy  for  the  tragic  loss  of  life  and  the 
devastation it provoked.
to 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement,  as  it  has  done  on 
many previous occasions, unequivocally rejects blatant 
violations  of  multilateralism  that  run  counter  to  the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
norms  of  international  law.  The  Movement  has  also 
reaffirmed  its  steadfast  commitment  to  ensuring  the 
continued  viability  of  all  provisions  of  international 
law  that,  together,  form  the  core  of  our  multilateral 
work  and  inspire  our  collective  efforts  to  maintain 
peace and security, achieve inclusive economic growth 
and  sustainable  development,  and  ensure  full  respect 
for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
At  the  sixteenth  NAM  Summit,  held  in  Tehran, 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  from  26  to  31  August,  the 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement reiterated their call on the Government of the 
United States of America to put an end to the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba, 
which,  in  addition  to  being  unilateral  and  contrary  to 
the Charter of the United Nations, international law and 
the principle of good-neighbourliness, is causing huge 
material losses and economic damage to the people of 
Cuba.  They  once  again  urged  strict  compliance  with 
resolutions 47/19, 48/16, 49/9, 50/10, 51/17, 52/10, 53/4, 
54/21, 55/20, 56/9, 57/11, 58/7, 59/11, 60/12, 61/11, 62/3, 
63/7, 64/6, 65/6 and 66/6. They expressed deep concern 
over  the  widening  of  the  extraterritorial  nature  of  the 
embargo  against  Cuba  and  rejected  the  reinforcement 
of  the  measures  adopted  by  the  Government  of  the 
United States aimed at tightening the embargo, as well 
as other recent measures carried out by the Government 
of  the  United  States  against  the  people  of  Cuba.  They 
reiterated  that  those  measures  constitute  a  violation 
of  Cuba’s  sovereignty  and  a  massive  violation  of  the 
human rights of its people.
A/67/PV.35
For the past two decades, an overwhelming number 
of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  have 
voted in favour of the resolution calling for the lifting 
of the United States embargo against Cuba. Each year, 
we  have  made  it  clear  that  the  blockade  is  not  only 
in  violation  of  international  law,  but  is  also  counter 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
set  forth  in  its  Charter,  of  which  the  United  States  of 
America  is  itself  a  founding  signatory.  The  embargo 
violates Cuba’s right to do business with the rest of the 
international community and, in the process, frustrates 
the  country’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
The  embargo  has  had  and  continues  to  have  a 
high degree of adverse impact on the well-being of the 
people of Cuba. The direct and indirect damage caused 
by the embargo against Cuba is enormous. It affects all 
crucial  sectors  of  the  economy,  including  those  most 
vital for the well-being of the Cuban people themselves, 
such as public health, nutrition and agriculture, as well 
as banking, trade, investment and tourism.
We salute the Cubans for what they have achieved 
so far, including their significant progress in the areas of 
education and health care, despite the huge difficulties 
they  encounter.  Yet  we  stress  once  again  that  the 
embargo  imposed  continues  to  impede  socioeconomic 
progress  and  creates  unnecessary  economic  hardship. 
It  is  clear  that  the  embargo  denies  Cuba  access  to 
markets,  development  aid  from  international  financial 
institutions  and  technology  transfers,  which  are  all 
important  for  the  development  of  the  Cuban  economy 
and for the well-being and advancement of its people.
The  United  States  Administration  has  in  the  past 
claimed that it would reach out to the Cuban people and 
engage  with  them.  Yet  those  words,  regrettably,  have 
not been translated into concrete actions. The punitive 
measures  imposed  against  the  whole  Cuban  nation 
persist,  and  with  them  the  enduring  suffering  of  its 
brave people.
Moreover,  the  unilateral  blockade  has  had  an 
extended  negative  effect  on  companies  and  citizens 
from third countries, thereby violating their sovereign 
rights. The Non-Aligned Movement reiterates its deep 
concern  at  the  harmful  impact  on  other  countries  of 
widening  the  extra-territorial  nature  of  the  embargo, 
which we consider to be an added argument in favour of 
the prompt elimination of those unfounded sanctions.
12-58675
7
A/67/PV.35
We  recall  that  last  year  186  Member  States  voted 
in  favour  of  resolution  66/6.  That  number  represented 
a  large  majority  of  the  international  community 
demanding an end to the five-decade-old embargo and 
full  adherence  to  the  principles  of  mutual  respect  and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  Cuba.  The 
Non-Aligned Movement believes that the continuation 
of  the  embargo  is  unjustifiable  and  runs  counter  to 
Cuba’s efforts to achieve sustainable development. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  once  again  urges  the 
United  States  of  America  to  immediately  and  fully 
comply  with  all  General  Assembly  resolutions  calling 
for an immediate end to the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  against  Cuba  and,  once 
and  for  all,  to  yield  to  the  will  of  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community,  which  will 
today  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
necessity of ending the embargo against Cuba, thereby 
enabling the valiant people of Cuba to fully prosper and 
enjoy their sovereignty, independence and right to self-
determination.
Mr. De Alba (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/67/118), 
which  underscores  yet  again  the  widespread  rejection 
by the international community of the embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba, as well 
as  the  serious  economic  losses  suffered  by  the  Cuban 
people  as  a  result  of  the  blockade  and  its  negative 
effects on their quality of life and well-being.
Similarly,  allow  me  to  associate  myself  with  the 
statement delivered by the Permanent Representative of 
Chile  on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and Caribbean States (CELAC), and to welcome Cuban 
Minister for Foreign Affairs Parrilla to the Assembly.
The  Government  of  Mexico  comes  before  the 
Assembly  to  reiterate  its  opposition  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  and 
its  rejection  of  the  use  of  coercive  actions  that  are 
contrary  to  international  law  and  thus  to  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  convinced  that  such 
measures  have  severe  humanitarian  consequences,  in 
clear  contradiction  to  their  supposed  goals.  They  also 
represent  a  rejection  of  negotiation,  diplomacy  and 
dialogue  as  the  appropriate  means  to  solve  disputes 
between States. 
Various  organs  and  entities  of  the  United  Nations 
system, as well as the report of the Secretary-General, 
documented  the  negative  impact  of  the  embargo  and 
other  unilateral  measures  on  Cuba’s  economic  and 
social development. It harms sensitive sectors that have 
a direct impact on the lives of the people and also has 
negative repercussions on third countries.
The international community’s overwhelming call 
against  the  embargo  on  Cuba  is  irrefutable  proof  that 
that kind of action cannot be the outcome of unilateral 
decisions  nor  can  or  should  it  be  of  an  extraterritorial 
nature. We must not forget that the political, economic 
or  military  sanctions  imposed  on  States  can  emanate 
only  from  Security  Council  or  General  Assembly 
decisions or recommendations.
Mexico  has  therefore  supported  all  initiatives 
against  the  blockade  and  related  unilateral  measures, 
both in the General Assembly and in the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development and other forums, 
among  which  I  would  highlight  the  Organization  of 
American  States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic  System,  the  Ibero-American  Summit  and 
CELAC. That is also why we will continue to support 
Cuba’s  inclusion  in  mechanisms  for  dialogue  and  for 
global economic, trade and financial exchanges, in line 
with the will and sovereign decisions of that country, in 
order to promote cooperation and development.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
For  Mexico,  dialogue  and  negotiation  remain  the 
appropriate way to settle disputes and to ensure peaceful 
coexistence among States. In the case before us today, 
the  virtually  unanimous  rejection  by  the  international 
community prooves us right.
Our  closeness  to  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  people  and 
our  own  convictions  make  clear  to  us  understand  the 
urgent  need  for  the  blockade  to  end.  For  that  reason, 
Mexico will, as it has always done, vote in favour of the 
draft resolution submitted for our consideration at this 
meeting (A/67/L.2).
Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India): I thank you, Sir, 
for  giving  me  this  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
made  earlier  in  this  meeting  by  the  representatives  of 
Algeria on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
This  is  the  twenty-first  year  in  a  row  that  we  are 
here  to  consider  the  draft  resolution  submitted  by 
Cuba  (A/67/L.2).  In  all  those  years,  the  Assembly 
8 
12-58675
has  emphatically  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations with an extraterritorial impact and all other 
forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that  hurt  the 
progress and prosperity of the world over.
While doing so, the Assembly has also called upon 
all States to respect their obligations under the United 
Nations Charter and international law and to repeal and 
invalidate laws and measures that have extraterritorial 
effects  on  other  States.  In  spite  of  its  rejection  by  the 
Assembly year after year, the United States embargo on 
Cuba  remains  in  full  force.  We  see  that  as  a  violation 
of world opinion and as an act that severely undermines 
multilateralism and the credibility of the United Nations 
itself.
The  half-century-old  United  States  embargo  on 
Cuba  has  brought  immense  suffering  to  its  people. 
The embargo, which perhaps has no parallel in history, 
is  a  transgression  of  the  right  of  a  sovereign  State  to 
develop  and  to  enjoy  freedom  of  trade,  economy  and 
navigation.  The  embargo  has  denied  a  life  of  respect 
and basic living standards to the people of Cuba and has 
severely undermined the country’s progress, including 
sustaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which 
it achieved long before their adoption.
The  impact  of  the  embargo  during  the  present 
global  economic  slowdown  has  been  particularly 
severe  on  the  Cuban  economy.  Spiralling  food  and 
energy  prices  have  made  matters  worse.  The  embargo 
has  denied  Cuba  access  to  United  States  markets, 
investment, 
and 
scientific, educational, cultural and sports institutions. 
Cuba has had to pay enormous extra costs for sourcing 
products, technology and services from third countries 
located thousands of kilometres away.
technology, 
financial 
services 
investment, 
The extraterritorial application of the United States 
embargo  has  discouraged 
technology 
transfer  and  commercial  and  other  forms  of  business 
collaboration  between  Cuba  and  third  countries.  The 
denial  of  technology  and  related  scientific  support, 
particularly  due  to  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
the embargo, has severely impacted health care, which 
is  a  commitment  under  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  in  the  country.  It  has  also  undermined  Cuba’s 
ability  to  provide  health  assistance  to  developing 
countries as part of South-South cooperation.
The report of the Secretary-General on the agenda 
item  under  consideration  (A/67/118)  illustrates  the 
detrimental  impact  that  the  embargo  has  had  on 
A/67/PV.35
to  undertake  socioeconomic 
international  efforts 
progress 
in  Cuba.  The  United  Nations  Resident 
Coordinator  in  Havana  has  noted  the  high  cost  and 
negative impact of the embargo on the development and 
humanitarian  cooperation  implemented  by  the  United 
Nations system.
There 
is  a  huge  potential  for  strengthening 
economic  and  commercial  ties  between  Cuba  and  the 
United States, especially in the tourism sector. Taking 
advantage of limited openings under the United States 
Trade  Sanctions  Reform  and  Export  Enhancement 
Act  of  2000,  the  United  States  has  become  the  largest 
exporter of agricultural products to Cuba. Congressional 
efforts in the United States to relax or lift the embargo 
lend  further  credence  to  the  annual  United  Nations 
resolution calling for its lifting. 
People-to-people  contacts  between  the  United 
States  and  Cuba  hold 
immense  possibilities  for 
fostering a better understanding. The steps taken by the 
United States Administration in January 2011 to reduce 
restrictions  on  travel  and  remittances  to  Cuba  are 
positive developments. However, it is far from making a 
fundamental change in the complex framework of laws 
and  regulations  that  are  part  of  the  embargo  against 
Cuba. Much more needs to be done.
India joins other nations in calling for an immediate 
end  to  the  United  States  embargo.  India  supports  the 
draft resolution to be introduced by the representative 
of Cuba.
Mr.  Hassan  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  full  support  for 
the  statements  delivered  earlier  in  this  meeting by  the 
representatives  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77  and  China;  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement;  of  Cape  Verde  on  behalf  of  the  African 
States; and of Kazakhstan on behalf of the Organization 
of  Islamic  Cooperation,  under  agenda  item  41,  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.
I would like to take this opportunity to express our 
full  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Cuba  and  all  those 
who  have  suffered  the  negative  effects  of  Hurricane 
Sandy. We offer our warm condolences to the families 
of the victims of that hurricane. 
The  Sudan  condemns  and  rejects  the  unilateral 
and  coercive  embargo  imposed  against  Cuba  by  the 
United  States,  in  f lagrant  violation  of  the  Charter  of 
12-58675
9
A/67/PV.35
the  United  Nations,  the  principles  of  human  rights, 
and  the  right  of  peoples  to  choose  their  own  political 
systems.  My  country  has  also  been  subjected  to  such 
an  heinous  crime.  It  requires  us  all  to  work  hard  and 
to exert pressure on the United States Administration, 
which threatens the dignity and economic development 
of a United Nations Member State.
The  Sudan  categorically  rejects  the  package  of 
resolutions  and  legislation  adopted  by  the  United 
States,  including  the  Trading  with  the  Enemy  Act  and 
its  repercussions.  We  also  reject  the  embargo  that  has 
been in place since 1959 and taken a severe toll on the 
economy,  development  and  social  and  psychological 
well-being  of  the  Cuban  people,  to  which  a  price 
cannot  be  affixed.  It  has  also  hindered  their  political, 
diplomatic,  bilateral  and  multilateral  relations  with 
other peoples and countries.
The  Sudan  has  lost  precious  economic  and  social 
resources as a result of such policies. We therefore call 
upon Member States to take fair and equitable actions 
and measures and to accelerate the reform of the United 
Nations system, including the Security Council, because 
it  should  not  be  possible  for  one  country  to  enjoy  the 
right  of  veto  and  thereby  violate  the  sovereignty  of 
another country and the Charter of the United Nations 
and threaten international peace and security.
In  conclusion,  we  call  upon  the  international 
community to put an end to the commercial, financial 
and  economic  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba,  the  Sudan 
and other countries, as well as to the use of unilateral 
coercive  measures.  That  will  guarantee  a  world  in 
which  peace  and  justice  can  prevail.  The  aggressive 
actions  of  the  United  States  is  a  crime  that  must  be 
halted, as it alienates developing countries and hinders 
their  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and sustainable development.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  We  welcome  the  participation  in  today’s 
debate  of  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  We  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
(A/67/118) presenting the views of Member States that 
disagree with and reject the unilateral, extraterritorial, 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.
The  basic  position  of  the  Russian  Federation  is 
well  known  and  unchanging.  Our  country,  alongside 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  members  of  the 
international  community,  strongly  condemns 
the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. We believe that 
the perpetuation of the embargo represents an outdated 
relic of the Cold War that has no place among current 
realities.
The  sanctions  that  have  been  in  effect  for  a  half 
century  have  clearly  demonstrated  their  inability  to 
inf luence  the  Cuban  people  in  their  sovereign  choice 
of  a  development  model.  Their  sole  consequence  has 
been  the  worsening  living  conditions  of  the  Cuban 
people,  the  creation  of  artificial  barriers  to  growth  of 
the  country’s  economy,  and  encroachment  upon  the 
interests of third countries.
We  expect  that  the  decisions  of  the  United  States 
Government  to  relax  some  aspects  of  the  blockade,  in 
particular  some  of  the  restrictions  on  visits  by  United 
States  citizens  to  relatives  in  Cuba,  and  on  sending 
monetary and postal transfers will be followed by other 
actions  aimed  at  lifting  the  blockade  once  and  for  all. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  lifting  of  sanctions  and the 
subsequent  normalization  of  relations  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States  will  contribute  to  improving 
the  situation  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  facilitate  the 
implementation of the ambitious socioeconomic reform 
programme  that  began  on  the  island  in  2011,  aimed 
at  modernizing  the  national  economy  and  raising  the 
standard of living of the population.
Guided by the fundamental principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  concerning  the  inadmissibility 
of  any  discriminatory  measure  or  interference  in  the 
internal affairs of States, Russia has consistently called 
for  the  prompt  repeal  of  the  embargo  and,  in  general, 
for a reduction of political pressure and coercion, which 
exacerbate the confrontational tendency in international 
relations.
In that context, the Russian Federation will vote in 
favour of draft resolution A/67/L.2 before us.
Ms.  Hafid  (Indonesia):  In  contributing  to  the 
debate  on  agenda  item  41  concerning  the  embargo 
imposed  against  Cuba  since  1961,  the  delegation  of 
Indonesia associates itself with the statement made by 
the representative of Algeria on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China.
The  General  Assembly  has  once  again  convened 
to  consider  the  51-year-old  unilateral  policy  banning 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  activity  with 
Cuba. The embargo imposed during the Cold War of the 
10 
12-58675
twentieth century has been detrimental to Cuba. While 
the people of Cuba have endured the embargo valiantly, 
it has imposed a forbidding cost on them. Furthermore, 
it has impacted the economic and commercial relations 
of third countries. The sanctions exceed the jurisdiction 
of national legislation and encroach on the sovereignty 
of other States that deal with Cuba.
In  the  context  of  the  twenty-first  century,  there 
are  numerous  reasons  to  question  the  validity  of  the 
embargo.  Much  has  changed  since  it  was  initially 
imposed.  The  world  of  2012  is  very  different  from 
that of 1961. Despite the impact of recent crises on the 
global  economy,  nations  have  opted  to  work  together 
to overcome the difficulties created by the crises. That 
testifies  to  the  fact  that  globalization  has  created  the 
conditions  for  true  global  solidarity  and  partnership 
among the community of nations.
The  continued 
imposition  of  an  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba 
violates  the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States,  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  each 
other’s  domestic  affairs,  international  humanitarian 
law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms 
and  principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among 
States.  The  Charter  is  clear  on  the  need  for  nations 
to  develop  friendly  relations  among  themselves.  It  is 
equally  emphatic  about  the  need  for  nations  to  refrain 
from action that will threaten the political independence 
of  others  or  lead  to  intervention  in  matters  that  are 
essentially  within  the  domestic  jurisdiction  of  any 
State.
The  embargo  undermines  relations  between  the 
main parties. Instead of dialogue to resolve differences, 
what  we  have  is  an  undesirable  standoff  that  does 
not  allow  for  an  exchange  of  views  to  normalize 
relations.  Not  only  do  political  complications  result 
from  the  embargo,  but  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  hardship  it  has  caused  can  hardly  be 
justified on humanitarian grounds. It is a great burden 
on  a  poor  developing  country  whose  people  would 
benefit  tremendously  from  cooperation  rather  than 
confrontation. 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
has caused hardship for the people of Cuba. Therefore, 
Indonesia  remains  steadfast  in  its  opposition  to  the 
embargo. While it is true that some small, meaningful 
changes  —  such  as  the  easing  of  travel  restrictions 
to  Cuba  and  the  removal  of  obstacles  to  transfer  of 
remittances  —  have  occurred  in  recent  times,  the 
A/67/PV.35
preferred  outcome  is  for  the  embargo  to  be  lifted 
completely. 
The 
lifting  of 
the  embargo  would  be 
in 
keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the  times.  It  would  also 
demonstrate  unambiguous  respect  for  the  principles 
of  non-intervention  embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  international  law.  Cuba  will  also 
be  able  to  exercise  its  right  to  develop,  unhindered  by 
restrictions  on  its  trade  and  other  business  activities. 
The  tensions  that  now  exist  between  the  two  nations 
will also dissolve.
Indonesia  therefore  urges  renunciation  of  the 
application  of  extraterritorial 
laws  and  measures 
that  affect  the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  the  lawful 
interests  of  their  subjects  or  other  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction  and  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation. 
Indonesia  calls  for  the  immediate  cessation  of  the 
embargo. It is Indonesia’s hope that the near future will 
see a thawing of the frosty relations that now keep those 
two  important  neighbouring  States  apart.  We  believe 
that it is time for peaceful coexistence.
Mr.  Escalona  Ojeda 
(Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  express  our 
deepest  solidarity  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and by the representative of Iran on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. We also offer our fraternal 
greetings  to  and  solidarity  with  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  brotherly 
Republic of Cuba.
On 25 October 2011, the General Assembly adopted 
for the twentieth time a resolution against the embargo 
imposed  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba (resolution 66/6). It was a historic 
vote whereby 186 countries expressed their support to 
that  heroic  people.  Only  two  countries  opposed  that 
resounding  global  expression  of  feeling.  Venezuela 
has  firmly  supported  the  20  resolutions  adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  by  an  overwhelming  majority, 
and  denounced  the  brutal,  illegal  embargo  against  the 
people of Cuba.
The  Government  of  Venezuela  reiterates 
its 
strongest  rejection  of  the  implementation  of  unilateral 
measures  with  extraterritorial  effect.  Such  actions 
contravene  the  norms  and  principles  of  international 
law, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
and other international legal instruments. They violate 
unhindered navigation and the norms of the international 
12-58675
11
A/67/PV.35
trade  system,  inter  alia.  The  implementation  of  the 
extraterritorial provisions of the Torricelli and Helms-
Burton  Acts  severely  harms  the  Cuban  economy  and 
affects  third  countries.  They  are  an  affront  to  the 
dignity  of  the  world’s  peoples,  who  rebel  against  such 
outrages. 
The  embargo  that  has  been  inhumanly  imposed 
for  over  50  years  undermines  the  human  rights  of  the 
Cuban people. It is a despicable practice that Venezuela 
strongly rejects. It punishes civilians while seeking to 
produce  a  change  of  Government  in  socialist  Cuba.  It 
has not achieved that goal and never will. The embargo 
has set back international relations to an era when the 
law  of  the  jungle  prevailed  and  power  was  based  on 
lawless violence. It is an expression of a barbaric policy 
at  the  heart  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Nevertheless, 
the  Cuban  people  stoically  and  heroically  overcome 
that  unjust  practice.  Despite  the  calamitous  effects, 
that brotherly nation continues to move forward with a 
policy of solidarity, even beyond its own borders.
There is no bilateral embargo against Cuba, as the 
Government of the United States claims. What exists is 
an extraterritorial embargo that affects third countries. 
The  Government  of 
impedes 
economic relations between Cuba and other countries, 
in blatant violation of State sovereignty and the right to 
free trade. It f louts international law and the Charter of 
the United Nations.
the  United  States 
The  advocates  of  imperialism  claim  that  Cuba 
represents  a  threat  to  the  region.  That  is  a  terrible 
lie.  For  Venezuela,  the  people  of  Latin  America,  the 
Caribbean  and  the  entire  world,  Cuba  has,  on  the 
contrary,  represented  an  element  of  hope  and  support 
based  on  its  solidarity  activities  in  health,  medicine, 
education and sport, inter alia, that contribute to social 
well-being.  Cuba  has  contributed  generously  and 
practically  to  eliminating  the  material,  cultural  and 
spiritual poverty of peoples.
While  President  Barack  Obama  has  managed 
to  connect  with  the  majority  sentiment  of  the  Latin 
American  population  living  in  the  United  States, 
he  should  also  echo  the  strongly  held  feeling  of  the 
people  of  the  continent  in  order  to  finally  end  the 
inhuman embargo against the Cuban people. If the new 
Government of President Obama moves forward in that 
direction — and there is no doubt that he possesses the 
foreign policy capacity to do so — he will be acting on 
the right side of history.
imposed  by 
There  have  been  repeated  international  demands 
against  the  embargo  against  the  Cuban  people.  On 
20  October  2011,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic  System,  meeting  at  the  ministerial  level 
in  Caracas,  Venezuela,  adopted  a  declaration  entitled 
“Ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo 
the  United  States  against 
Cuba”.  On  3  December  2011,  the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
meeting  in  Caracas,  Venezuela,  at  the  summit  of  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States, 
issued  a  special  communiqué  on  the  need  to  end  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States against Cuba. On the occasion of 
the  sixth  Summit  of  the  Americas,  which  took  place 
in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, on 14 and 15 April, 
all  of  the  States  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
rejected the embargo and expressed their support for the 
Cuban people. It is also important to remember that the 
Heads of State and Government of the States members 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  meeting  in  Tehran  on 
30  and  31  August,  once  again  repeated  their  appeal 
to the Government of the United States of America to 
put an end to the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo against Cuba.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reiterates its 
call on the Government of the United States of America 
to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  20  resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly and put an end to the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against  Cuba.  Venezuela  will  vote  wholeheartedly  in 
favour  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.2  on  the  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  Let 
me  begin  by  welcoming  the  report  submitted  by  the 
Secretary-General under agenda item 41 (A/67/118). 
The  Chinese  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
For  20  consecutive  years,  the  General  Assembly 
has  adopted  by  overwhelming  majority  resolutions 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of America against Cuba, urging all countries to abide 
by the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law and to repeal or invalidate any laws and measures 
12 
12-58675
with  extraterritorial  effect  that  affect  the  sovereignty 
of  other  States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or 
persons  under  their  jurisdiction,  and  the  freedom  of 
trade and navigation.
Regrettably,  however,  those  resolutions  have  not 
been  effectively  implemented  over  the  years,  and  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  is  yet  to  be  lifted. 
This  practice  has  inf licted  enormous  economic  and 
financial  losses  on  Cuba.  It  is  estimated  that  Cuba’s 
economic  losses  directly  resulting  from  the  embargo 
had  exceeded  $108  billion  by  December  2011.  If  the 
depreciation of the United States dollar against the price 
of  gold  in  international  markets  is  taken  into  account, 
the figure would rise to $1.066 trillion. 
The embargo has caused a shortage of supplies and 
commodities and dealt a heavy blow to Cuba’s economy. 
It  stands  as  the  major  stumbling  block  to  Cuba’s 
economic development and social progress. Moreover, 
the  embargo  has  brought  huge  suffering  to  the  Cuban 
people  and  violated  their  fundamental  human  rights, 
including  their  rights  to  food,  health  and  education  as 
well as their rights to survival and development.
international 
We  note  that  one  of  the  most  prominent  features 
of  the  embargo  in  the  past  year  has  been  interference 
with  Cuba’s 
transactions. 
This  has  not  only  hit  Cuba’s  economy  hard,  but  also 
affected  normal  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
interactions  between  other  countries  and  Cuba,  and 
thereby impaired the interests and sovereignty of third 
countries.
financial 
The  embargo  against  Cuba  constitutes  a  serious 
violation of the purposes and principles of the Charter 
and the relevant General Assembly resolutions, and has 
been  firmly  rejected  by  the  vast  majority  of  Member 
States. The call of the international community on the 
United States Government to change its policy towards 
Cuba, lift the embargo and normalize its relations with 
Cuba, as ref lected in this year’s report of the Secretary-
General, is growing ever stronger.
The Chinese Government has always believed that 
inter-State  relations  should  be  developed  on  the  basis 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  respect  for  the  rights  of  other  countries 
to  independently  choose  their  own  social  system  and 
development  path.  China  is  opposed  to  any  unilateral 
sanctions against other countries by military, political, 
economic or other means. 
A/67/PV.35
the 
Meanwhile,  China  has  strictly  followed  and 
implemented 
relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  China  and  Cuba  have  maintained  normal 
economic, trade and personnel exchanges. The friendly 
and  mutually  beneficial  cooperation  in  various  fields 
between  our  two  countries  is  on  the  rise.  This  is  not 
only in line with the desires of the two peoples, but also 
conducive  to  the  economic  and  social  development  of 
Cuba.
In 
today’s  world,  dialogue,  exchanges  and 
harmonious  coexistence  represent  the  mainstream  of 
international  relations.  Exchanges  and  cooperation 
on  an  equal  footing  among  countries  have  become 
the  prevailing  trend.  Dialogue  on  an  equal  footing 
and  friendly  consultation  are  the  best  means  to  settle 
disputes. China hopes that the United States will follow 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter and the relevant General Assembly resolutions 
and end its embargo against Cuba as soon as possible. 
China  also  hopes  that  the  relationship  between  the 
United States and Cuba will gradually improve. 
China  will  again  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  submitted  by  Cuba  under  this  agenda  item 
(A/67/L.2).
Mr.  Mootaz  Ahmadein  Khalil  (Egypt):  Allow 
me  first  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and to assure him 
of Egypt’s full support.
I would also like to align myself with the statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Algeria  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  Cape  Verde  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States, and Kazakhstan on behalf of 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
A little over 50 years ago, an unjust and unjustifiable 
unilateral  embargo  was  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba.  The  world  has  profoundly 
changed  since 
the  embargo 
persists, in total violation of multilateralism, the norms 
of  international  law,  and  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. The embargo is an anachronism from 
a bygone era.
then.  Nevertheless, 
The  embargo  against  Cuba  is  the  longest  and 
toughest  system  of  sanctions  ever  applied  against  any 
country  in  modern  history.  Its  extraterritorial  effects 
violate  the  sovereignty  of  many  Member  States.  It 
must  be  lifted.  One  hundred  and  eighty-six  countries 
voted  last  year  in  favour  of  resolution  66/6  on  this 
12-58675
13
A/67/PV.35
matter — the twentieth resolution adopted on this issue. 
This is not only the plea of the Cuban people and their 
leaders; it is the request of the overwhelming majority 
of Member States.
Despite  the  undue  economic  and  social  hardships 
caused by the embargo on the Cuban people, they have 
made  significant  progress  in  many  areas,  including 
education,  health  care  and  gender  equality.  We 
praise  them  for  these  achievements  under  difficult 
circumstances.  At  a  time  when  peoples  in  our  region 
are bravely fighting for freedom and justice and some 
of them, as in my own country, Egypt, are establishing 
the  foundations  of  a  genuine  democracy  of  their  own, 
it is troubling that the United States continues to adopt 
coercive  measures  to  prevent  a  neighbouring  nation 
from  freely  deciding  its  own  political  and  economic 
system.
History has shown that cooperation and engagement 
are  more  effective  than  isolation  and  estrangement. 
It  is  high  time  for  the  embargo  to  end.  It  has  lasted 
unwarranted for over half a century. Fifty years late is 
better  than  never.  The  re-election  of  President  Obama 
last  week  proves  that  the  American  people  strongly 
support  multilateralism  and  the  values  of  the  United 
Nations. It offers the American Administration a fresh 
opportunity to rectify this historic injustice inf licted on 
Cuba. We hope that this opportunity will not be missed.
Mr. Morejón (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): Let me 
first  welcome  the  presence  in  this  Hall  of  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, 
and convey through him our sincere congratulations to 
the  Cuban  people  on  the  overwhelming  majority  that 
will  most  certainly  adopt  draft  resolution  A/67/L.2, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”, later today.
I  would  also  like  to  re-emphasize  the  solidarity 
of  the  people  and  Government  of  Ecuador  with  the 
victims of the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy 
and the subsequent f loods that killed scores of Cubans 
and  did  great  damage  to  their  brotherly  country.  On 
5  November,  the  Ecuadorian  Government  sent  nine 
tons of humanitarian aid, including a water-purification 
plant, as part of our policy of solidarity and support for 
risk management and rehabilitation.
Ecuador  hopes  that  this  unequivocal  message 
sent  by  the  most  representative  and  legitimate  organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  together  with  the  preceding 
20  resolutions  on  the  matter,  will  be  implemented 
in  its  entirety  and  put  an  end  to  the  enactment  and 
enforcement  of  laws  and  provisions,  such  as  the 
so-called  Helms-Burton  Act  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  whose  extraterritorial  effect  undermines  the 
sovereignty  other  States  and  constitutes  an  economic, 
financial  and  commercial  blockade  against  Cuba  and 
its people.
The  delegation  of  Ecuador  will  of  course  vote  in 
favour of the draft resolution because our Constitution 
condemns  any  form  of  interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  other  States,  whether 
through  armed 
incursion,  acts  of  aggression,  occupation  or  economic 
or  military  blockade.  Similarly,  Ecuador  believes  that 
the  failure  to  adopt  specific  measures  to  abolish  the 
provisions  and  measures  that  constitute  the  embargo 
against Cuba, as noted in the draft resolution, is a clear 
violation of the principles of sovereign equality among 
States, non-interference in the internal affairs of other 
countries, the freedom of trade and navigation enshrined 
in the Charter, and numerous other international legal 
instruments.
Ecuador has maintained a consistent and coherent 
position  on  this  matter,  to  the  extent  that  we  did  not 
accept  an  invitation  to  the  most  recent  Summit  of  the 
Americas,  where  an  attempt  was  made  to  veto  Cuba’s 
participation,  although  ultimately  it  was  agreed  that 
the  Cuba  embargo  should  be  discussed.  My  country 
also  considers  it  unacceptable  that,  as  we  discuss  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  the  integration  of 
the  pillars  of  sustainable  development,  among  other 
positive  aspects  of  the  United  Nations  agenda,  we 
continue  to  see  economic  statistics  ref lecting  the 
damage inf licted on Cuba’s trade and external affairs, 
which  seriously  harms  Cuba’s  people  and  hinders  its 
efforts to fulfil its internationally agreed development 
objectives,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  In  that  context,  Ecuador  encourages  beneficial 
and complementary commercial exchanges with Cuba, 
such as the recent round of negotiations held in Havana 
with  a  view  to  increasing  bilateral  trade  in  goods  and 
services  in  the  textile,  fisheries,  construction,  food 
processing, tourism and pharmaceutical sectors, among 
others.
For  those  reasons,  Ecuador  associates  itself  with 
the  views  expressed  by  the  representatives  who  spoke 
earlier  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  the  Southern 
14 
12-58675
Common Market and associated States, and calls once 
again for full implementation of today’s draft resolution 
and  for  an  end  to  this  infamous  blockade,  which  the 
entire international community considers shameful.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of my delegation, 
I would first like to welcome the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla. I would 
also like to thank the Secretary-General for his detailed 
report (A/67/118) on the agenda item that is the subject 
of today’s meeting, highlighting the general and global 
rejection  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  arbitrarily  and  unilaterally  by  the 
United States of America on the Cuban people.
We take this opportunity to endorse the statements 
made  earlier  today  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States, and the Southern 
Common Market. 
At the outset, we would like to make it clear that the 
Government of the Plurinational State of Bolivia firmly 
rejects and repudiates the use of unilateral measures by 
any State seeking to impose an economic, commercial 
or  financial  embargo  with  detrimental  humanitarian 
results and in ﬂ agrant contravention of the principles and 
standards of international law. This blockade is unjust, 
illegitimate, illegal, extraterritorial and opposed to the 
goals,  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  and  thus  to  the  foundations  of  international 
law:  respect  for  State  sovereignty,  non-interference  in 
the  affairs  of  other  States,  and  freedom  of  navigation 
and  trade.  In  this  specific  case,  it  violates  the  Cuban 
people’s right to exercise their sovereignty, to free self-
determination  and  to  development,  and  it  undermines 
the  Cuban  Government’s  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty 
and inequality.
We recall that this is the twenty-first time that such 
a draft resolution has been submitted to the Assembly, 
and the twenty-first consecutive time that we will reject 
the  unilateral  embargo.  The  United  States  is  f louting 
the global call for an end to an injustice that harms the 
people  not  only  of  Cuba  but  of  the  entire  world.  This 
unilateral  and  noxious  position  and  attitude  of  the 
United States have been characterized by President Evo 
Morales  from  this  rostrum  as  genocidal,  immoral  and 
in violation of the human rights of an entire people. We 
therefore  reject  the  economic  and  financial  embargo 
on Cuba. Bolivia condemns the coercive nature of this 
A/67/PV.35
measure,  affecting  as  it  does  not  only  Cuba  but  every 
other  country  around  the  world,  to  the  extent  that  it 
imposes limits on their sovereignty. 
We fully endorse and support Cuba’s international 
efforts  to  fight  the  embargo,  which  hinders  the 
development and well-being of its people. We commend 
the  struggle  and  valour  of  the  revolutionary  people  of 
Cuba,  which,  despite  the  difficulties  entailed  by  the 
embargo,  continues  to  move  forward  in  dignity.  It  has 
demonstrated  its  solidarity  with  countries  around  the 
world through its cooperation and economic assistance. 
We  recognize  Cuba’s  efforts  to  collaborate  with  the 
people  of  Bolivia  and  other  countries,  despite  the 
damage inf licted by the United States on its economy, 
and  guided  by  the  wise  words  of  former  President 
Fidel Castro, to the effect that solidarity does not mean 
giving a great deal but sharing what one has, even if it 
is not much.
While  some  countries —  in  this  case,  the  country 
imposing  the  blockade  —  send  armies  with  soldiers 
with  huge  arsenals,  Cuba  has  armies  of  doctors  and 
teachers  who  enthusiastically  cure  and  teach  people 
in  the  neediest  areas  of  Latin  America.  While  those 
who  impose  the  embargo  also  impose  war  and  death, 
Cuba  stands  for  solidarity,  life,  dignity  and  human 
value. The actions carried out voluntarily by the Cuban 
Government  with  respect  to  the  Bolivian  people  are 
invaluable, and we are profoundly grateful for them.
If, as the President of the United States stated in this 
very Hall, democracy truly exists; if the resolutions of 
the General Assembly truly matter; if the international 
rule of law is truly respected; and if it is true that the 
Government of the United States upholds equality and 
freedom,  then  its  President  must  immediately  lift  the 
inhumane  embargo  against  the  people  of  Cuba.  The 
victory  of  the  Cuban  people  will  be  the  victory  of 
solidarity over arrogance, of justice over coercion, and 
of the principles of the United Nations over attempted 
imperial punishment.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  recall  Ché  Guevara,  who 
almost  five  decades  ago  in  this  Hall  echoed  the  wise 
words  of  José  Martí:  “Every  genuine  human  being 
should  feel  on  his  own  cheek  the  blow  struck  on  the 
cheek of any other human being” (A/PV.1300, para. 57).
Mr. Pham Vinh Quang (Viet Nam): The Vietnamese 
delegation would like to align itself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM) 
12-58675
15
A/67/PV.35
and the statement made by the representative of Algeria 
on behalf of the Group of 77 (G-77) and China.
Viet  Nam’s  delegation  once  again  welcomes  the 
theme  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh 
session,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, 
as well as the President’s other high priorities, including 
the  rule  of  law  and  advancing  the  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  aimed  at  enhancing  the  role, 
authority,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  this  body, 
with a particular focus on implementing the resolutions 
adopted by the Assembly. 
Over the past 20 years, the General Assembly has 
almost unanimously adopted 20 consecutive resolutions 
calling  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial blockade imposed by the United States against 
Cuba.  Yet  the  blockade  and  the  sanctions  remain  and 
continue  to  impose  severe  economic  and  financial 
restrictions  on  Cuba.  This  issue  therefore  merits 
additional  attention  under  the  theme  of  this  session  of 
the General Assembly.
The blockade has had a tremendous impact on the 
lives of the Cuban people and the development of their 
country. According to the report submitted by Cuba to 
the Secretary-General, the loss and damage caused by 
the  embargo  to  the  Cuban  economy  exceed  $1  trillion 
(see  A/67/118).  Cuba  has  made  significant  progress  in 
development.  We  admire  the  resilience  of  the  Cuban 
people,  but  the  embargo  plus  the  deepening  impact 
of  the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  continue 
to  impede  the  socioeconomic  advances  and  efforts 
of  Cuba  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
Most  of  the  international  community,  including 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of  77 
and  China,  on  many  occasions  has  clearly  stated  that 
the  embargo  contravenes  the  fundamental  norms  of 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
the fundamental principles and purposes of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  principles  of 
sovereign equality, non-interference in internal affairs 
and  the  self-determination  of  States.  Viet  Nam  shares 
the views expressed by the international community in 
its continued opposition to the embargo.
In  this  context,  Viet  Nam  goes  along  with  the 
call  contained  in  the  outcome  document  of  the 
sixteenth  NAM  Summit,  in  which  the  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  of  NAM  reiterated  their  call  on  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  to  put  an  end  to  the 
embargo because of it is unilateral nature, contrary to 
the Charter of the United Nations, international law and 
the principle of good-neighbourliness. In the same vein, 
Viet Nam supports the statement of the G-77 and China 
on this matter.
For all the reasons I have mentioned, Viet Nam will 
join  the  large  majority  of  Member  States  in  voting  in 
favour of the draft resolution (A/67/L.2) to be introduced 
by the Cuban Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla.  On  this  occasion,  Viet  Nam 
wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for  and  solidarity  with 
Cuba. Viet Nam once again urges the United States, in 
conformity with its obligations under the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  international  law,  to  fully  comply 
with relevant General Assembly resolutions calling for 
an  immediate  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to 
Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.2.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to reiterate the most heartfelt condolences 
of the people and the Government of Cuba to the people 
of the United States, the city of New York, the people 
who  have  been  directly  affected  and  particularly  the 
relatives of the victims, for the loss of human lives and 
the great material damage caused by Hurricane Sandy. 
We  likewise  offer  our  condolences  to  the  peoples  and 
the  Governments  of  the  Bahamas,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  the 
Dominican  Republic  and  Canada  in  connection  with 
the  same  events,  as  well  as  to  Guatemala  and  Mexico 
for the recent earthquake that affected those countries.
On 6 April 6 1960, Under-Secretary of State Lester 
D.  Mallory  wrote  the  most  concise,  accurate  and 
enduring  definition  of  the  objectives  of  the  blockade 
against Cuba. They were, he wrote, 
“to cause disenchantment and disaffection based on 
economic dissatisfaction and hardship... to weaken 
the  economic  life  of  Cuba  ...  denying  money  and 
supplies... to decrease monetary and real wages, to 
bring  about  hunger,  desperation  and  overthrow  of 
Government”.
To  date,  this  vision  has  embodied  the  inhumane, 
failed and anachronistic policy of 11 successive United 
States Governments under which 76 per cent of Cubans 
have  been  born.  Our  country  has  never  been  at  war 
16 
12-58675
A/67/PV.35
with or carried out any hostile action against the United 
States.  It  has  never  consented  to  the  perpetration  of 
terrorist actions against the American people.
has  been  an  insurmountable  obstacle  in  the  country’s 
increasingly  uncomfortable 
relations  with  Latin 
America and the Caribbean. 
In  2008,  presidential  candidate  Obama  electrified 
Americans  with  his  energy,  his  origins  and  his  words 
“Yes we can”. Three months later, having been elected 
President, he announced “a new beginning with Cuba” 
and said: 
“We  can  move  United  States-Cuba  relations  in 
a  new  direction  ...  [and]  launch  a  new  chapter  of 
engagement  that  will  be  sustained  throughout  my 
administration.”
However,  the  reality  of  the  past  four  years  has 
been  characterized  by  a  persistent  tightening  of 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade, 
particularly  in  its  extraterritorial  dimension,  despite 
the fact that the Assembly has approved, by a consistent 
and overwhelming majority, 20 consecutive resolutions 
calling for an end to this policy.
Keeping  this  policy  in  force  is  not  in  the  national 
interest of the United States. On the contrary, it harms 
the  interests  of  its  citizens  and  companies,  especially 
in  times  of  economic  crisis  and  high  unemployment. 
Those  citizens  and  companies  are,  according  to  polls, 
demanding a change of policy. 
What  is  the  point  of  encroaching  on  Americans’ 
constitutional  and  civil  rights  and  freedom  of  travel 
by preventing them from visiting the island when they 
can visit any other place on the planet, including places 
where their country is waging wars? What is the point 
of giving up on a new market of 11 million people? What 
is the point of continuing to waste hundreds of millions 
of  dollars  of  taxes  paid  by  American  citizens  on  the 
useless  and  illegal  subversion  of  Cuba?  What  is  the 
point  of  damaging  Cuba’s  relations  with  other  States, 
including its allies, with extraterritorial measures that 
violate international law? What is the point of adopting 
an  approach  that  is  diametrically  opposed  to  one  that 
encourages  enhanced  economic  relations  with  States 
with a different political system?
The blockade also harms the legitimate interests of 
and discriminates against the Cuban emigres who have 
settled  here  in  this  country,  and  who  overwhelmingly 
favour  the  normalization  of  relations  with  their  home 
country.  It  harms  the  credibility  of  the  foreign  policy 
of the United States and isolates it. It makes the United 
States  adopt  costly  double  standards.  For  50  years,  it 
has proved to be ineffective in achieving its goals and 
Should  the  blockade  come  to  an  end,  the  United 
States Government would avoid any further discrediting 
of  its  humanitarian  policies  and  would  cease  to  be  a 
consistent violator of the human rights of Cubans. The 
United States could refrain from including our country 
on  spurious  lists,  such  as  that  which  classifies  it  as  a 
sponsor of terrorism, with the sole purpose of justifying 
the  implementation  of  additional  measures  against 
financial  transactions,  thereby  doing  great  damage  to 
the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the  international 
struggle against that terrible scourge.
There is no legitimate or moral reason to maintain 
the blockade, which is rooted in the Cold War. It is just 
a  weapon  in  the  hands  of  an  increasingly  exiguous, 
isolated,  violent  and  arrogant  minority  that  exploit  it 
for electoral gain. They show contempt for the voice of 
the  majority  and  cannot  resign  themselves  to  the  fact 
that the Cubans are firmly resolved to decide their own 
destiny.
The  use  of  less  strident  and  threatening  rhetoric 
and  the  adoption  of  certain  partial  measures  relaxing 
the  travel  restrictions  on  United  States  residents  of 
Cuban  origin  and  others  for  academic,  scientific  or 
cultural purposes have failed to conceal the tightening 
of  the  blockade  over  the  past  four  years.  The  report 
of 
to  which  a 
significant number of delegations and agencies present 
here  contributed,  broadly  documents  the  multiple  and 
diverse  impacts  not  only  on  my  country  but  also  on 
many of the Governments represented here.
the  Secretary-General  (A/67/118), 
In  November  2011,  the  Treasury  Department 
hit  the  New  York  branch  office  of  the  German  bank 
Commerzbank  with  a  fine  of  $175,500  for  serving 
as  consultant  to  and  guarantor  of  a  Cuban  national 
for  a  payment  to  be  made  to  a  Canadian  company.  In 
June  2012,  the  Department  of  Justice  announced  the 
imposition  of  a  $619  million  fine  on  the  Dutch  bank 
ING  for  alleged  violations  of  the  regime  of  sanctions 
against Cuba and other countries. This was the largest 
fine  ever  imposed  on  a  foreign  bank.  In  referring  to 
this  unprecedented  event,  Mr.  Adam  Szubin,  Director 
of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the 
Treasury Department, stated menacingly: 
“Our  sanctions  laws  ref lect  core  United  States 
national  security  and  foreign  policy  interests  and 
12-58675
17
A/67/PV.35
OFAC  polices  them  aggressively.  Today’s  historic 
settlement  should  serve  as  a  clear  warning  to 
anyone  who  would  consider  profiting  by  evading 
United States sanctions.”
During President Obama’s Administration, the ﬁ nes 
imposed  have  amounted  to  $2,000,259,732  —  twice 
as  much  as  under  both  terms  of  the  George  W.  Bush 
Administration.  The  enforcement  of  the  blockade  has 
exceeded  all  conceivable  limits.  In  December  2011, 
the  Hilton  Hotel  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  which  is 
the  property  of  that  country  and  operates  under  a 
management  contract  with  the  Hilton  hotel  network, 
received  categorical  orders  from  OFAC  to  prevent  the 
celebration of the fourth Summit of Heads of State and 
Government  of  the  Caribbean  Community  countries 
and Cuba on its premises. This was a scandalous act of 
disrespect to all Caribbean nations and the international 
community.
In  July,  two  executives  from  the  French  branch 
office  of  the  travel  agency  Carlson  Wagonlit  Travel 
were ﬁ red for selling tourist packages to the island. The 
company  runs  the  risk  of  being  fined  $38,000  dollars 
for each trip sold. On 10 May, less than a year after the 
first  and  very  limited  licences  were  granted  to  allow 
United States citizens to travel to Cuba for educational 
purposes  and  for  people-to-people  exchanges,  the 
Treasury  Department  prohibited  trips  to  recreational 
sites  and  financial  transactions  involving  tourism 
activities  and  established  new  and  stricter  measures 
to  ensure  that  all  itineraries  and  programmes  were  in 
line with the policy against Cuba. At the same time, it 
was  announced  that  any  violation  of  these  restrictions 
would be subject to a $65,000 fine and the suspension 
of licenses.
The  human  impact  of  the  blockade  is  massive 
and  impossible  to  calculate.  The  blockade  has  led  to 
hardship,  shortages  and  difficulties  that  affect  every 
family, every girl and boy, every woman and man, the 
handicapped, every senior citizen and the ill.
The  William  Soler  Pediatric  Cardiology  Centre 
has  no  access  to  Levosimendan,  a  medication  that  is 
used  to  treat  heart  problems  associated  with  cardiac 
capacity  in  small  children.  The  hospital  is  unable  to 
use  this  medicine  because  its  supply  has  been  denied, 
as  it  is  manufactured  by  Abbott  Laboratories.  The 
cardiovascular  surgery  service  of  that  same  hospital 
treats  between  100  and  110  children  younger  than 
1  year  of  age  every  year.  More  than  90  per  cent  of 
those  children  require  nutritional  supplements  before 
undergoing  surgery  for  a  better  prognosis.  Our 
country  does  not  have  access  to  parenteral  nutritional 
supplements  —  that  is,  supplements  administered 
intravenously — produced in the United States, which 
are  recognized  to  be  among  the  most  effective  and  of 
highest quality.
The impossibility of acquiring tissue laminates for 
skin  expansion  used  in  preparing  skin  transplants  and 
the need to purchase them in distant markets at a higher 
price complicate and prolong the treatment of boys and 
girls  suffering  from  severe  burns  by  increasing  their 
time spent in surgery and at the hospital.
The  pacemaker  and  electrophysiology  service 
of  the  Institute  of  Cardiology  and  Cardiovascular 
Surgery  does  not  have  a  non-f luoroscopic  anatomical 
three-dimensional  mapping  system,  which  is  used  to 
analyse the points of arrhythmia in the human heart, as 
a result of the withdrawal of the United States company 
St. Jude. That prevents treatments and catheterizations 
to  cure  complex  arrhythmias  from  being  carried  out. 
Consequently,  we  are  forced  to  send  those  patients  to 
third countries to receive treatment.
On  the  evening  of  6  November,  President  Obama 
referred  to  the  cure  of  the  eight-year-old  girl  Erin 
Catherine Potter, who suffers from leukaemia and lives 
in Mentor, Ohio. On 28 October 2009, we explained in 
this Hall that the Cuban children who also suffer from 
lymphoblastic leukaemia and reject the usual medicines 
cannot be treated with the drug Elspar, created to treat 
patients with such intolerance, because its sale to Cuba 
by the firm Merck and Co. is prohibited. Those children 
also deserve compassion and relief.
On 26 October 2010 (see A/65/PV.36), in this Hall 
we denounced the fact that our ophthalmologic services 
could  not  use  transpupillary  thermotherapy  to  cure 
retina cancer, or retinoblastoma, which makes it possible 
for  children  to  preserve  their  affected  eye.  Since  that 
date, 15 children — including Lianna Aguilera Feria, 1 
year old; Maria Sánchez Rosales and Rochely Mendoza 
Rabelo, 2 years old; and Erika Rodriguez Villavicencio, 
Fidel  Valdés  Márquez,  Giovanna  Alvarez  Torrens  and 
Magdiel Leyva Suárez, 3 years old — have suffered that 
loss  because  the  United  States  Government  prevents 
the purchase of the necessary medical equipment from 
the company Iris Medical Instruments.
Given  its  express  purpose  and  direct  effects,  the 
blockade  against  Cuba  qualifies  as  an  act  of  genocide 
18 
12-58675
according  to  subparagraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of  article  II  of 
the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment 
of  the  Crime  of  Genocide.  It  is  a  mass,  f lagrant  and 
systematic  violation  of  the  human  rights  of  an  entire 
people.
We strongly oppose the unilateral coercive measures 
and  the  economic  sanctions  that  only  cause  harm  to 
human beings. As was expressed at this rostrum by the 
historic leader of the revolution, Fidel Castro Ruz, 
interventions, 
“we  want  a  world  free  from  hegemonies,  nuclear 
weapons, 
racism,  national  or 
religious hatred, where there is no outrage upon the 
sovereignty of any country, where there is respect 
for  the  independence  and  free  determination  of 
peoples,  a  world  free  from  universal  models  that 
fully  disregard  the  traditions  and  culture  of  all 
the  components  of  humankind;  free  from  cruel 
blockades  that  kill  men,  women,  children,  youths 
and senior citizens like silent atom bombs.”
in 
As  stated 
the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
the  economic  damage  accumulated  over  more  than 
50  years  until  2011  amounted  to  $1,066  billion,  more 
than  a  trillion  dollars,  according  to  a  rigorous  and 
conservative  calculation  based  on  the  devaluation  of 
the dollar against the price of gold. Any sensible person 
can  imagine  the  living  standards  and  development 
levels that we could have achieved if we had had those 
resources.
The  blockade  is  one  of  the  main  causes  of  the 
economic  problems  of  our  country  and  the  major 
obstacle  to  its  economic  and  social  development.  It 
violates international law. It is contrary to the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and a violation of the right to peace, development and 
security of a sovereign State. It is an act of aggression 
and a permanent threat against the stability of a country. 
It is also a gross violation of the norms of international 
trade,  freedom  of  navigation  and  the  sovereign  rights 
of States because of its extraterritorial character. Since 
the  blockade  is  a  unilateral  policy,  it  should  cease 
unilaterally. 
The  United  States  people,  towards  which  Cuba 
has  feelings  of  friendship  and  respect,  have  just 
re-elected  President  Barack  Obama.  During 
the 
electoral campaign, he repeated dozens of times that he 
continues to be the President of change and that he will 
move  forward.  President  Obama  has  the  opportunity 
to  launch  a  new  policy  towards  Cuba,  different  from 
A/67/PV.35
that implemented by his 10 predecessors for more than 
half  a  century.  It  will  surely  be  difficult  and  he  will 
face  serious  obstacles,  but  the  President  of  the  United 
States still has the constitutional powers to pay heed to 
public  opinion  and  generate  the  necessary  momentum 
by  means  of  executive  decisions,  even  without  the 
approval  of  the  Congress.  There  is  no  doubt  that  this 
would be a historic legacy.
He  would  make  a  serious  miscalculation  and  would 
make  things  all  the  more  difficult  in  the  future  if  he 
decided to wait for a new generation of Cuban leaders 
or  for  the  impossible  collapse  of  our  economy.  That 
option would ensure that he will go down in history as 
the eleventh president to make the same mistake.
I  reiterate,  on  behalf  of  President  Raúl  Castro 
Ruz,  the  firm  willingness  of  the  Cuban  Government 
to  move  towards  the  normalization  of  relations  with 
the  United  States  through  a  respectful  dialogue, 
without  preconditions,  on  the  basis  of  reciprocity  and 
sovereign  equality,  without  in  any  way  undermining 
our independence and sovereignty.
Today,  now,  I  again  submit  to  the  United  States 
Government  the  proposal  of  an  agenda  for  a  bilateral 
dialogue  aimed  at  moving  towards  the  normalization 
of  relations,  including  on  such  fundamental  topics  as 
the  lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade;  Cuba’s  exclusion  from  the  arbitrary  and 
illegal  list  of  countries  that  sponsor  terrorism;  the 
abrogation  of  the  Cuban  Adjustment  Act  and  the  wet 
foot/dry  foot  policy;  compensation  for  economic  and 
human  damages;  the  return  of  the  territory  occupied 
by  the  Guantánamo  naval  base;  an  end  to  radio  and 
television  attacks;  and  the  cessation  of  financing  for 
internal subversion. 
An  essential  element  of  this  agenda  is  the  release 
of  the  five  Cuban  anti-terrorist  fighters  who  remain 
cruelly  and  unjustly  imprisoned  in  this  country.  An 
act of justice or at least a humanitarian solution would 
earn the gratitude of my people and a response from our 
Government.
The President returned to the Chair.
Likewise,  I  would  also  offer  the  United  States 
Government  the  possibility  of  negotiating  several 
cooperation agreements in areas of the greatest mutual 
interest,  such  as  the  fight  against  drug  trafficking, 
terrorism  and  human  smuggling,  and  for  the  full 
normalization  of  migratory  relations,  as  well  as  for 
the  prevention  and  mitigation  of  natural  disasters  and 
12-58675
19
A/67/PV.35
the  protection  of  the  environment  and  our  common 
oceans.  We  would  also  propose  returning  to  the  talks 
that  were  unilaterally  suspended  by  our  counterpart 
concering  migration  issues  and  for  the  resumption  of 
postal services.
Whatever  the  circumstances,  our  people  shall 
defend its achievements, no matter what the cost. It will 
uphold its ideals. It will recover from natural disasters, 
such  as  that  which  struck  Santiago  de  Cuba  and  the 
eastern and central provinces a few days ago, and will 
resolutely continue to update and develop our socialism 
with all and for the well-being of all.
On  behalf  of  this  heroic  people,  its  children, 
its  women  and  its  elderly,  I  ask  all  Governments 
committed  to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of the United Nations and international law, the norms 
of  the  multilateral  trading  system,  freedom  of  trade 
and  navigation  and  the  refusal  of  the  extraterritorial 
application  of  a  national  law,  to  vote  once  again  in 
favour  of  the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/67/L.2,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
The  President: We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in 
the debate on this agenda item. 
We  shall  now  proceed  to  consider  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.2.  Before  giving  the  f loor  to  speakers  in 
explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
Mr.  Godard  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States strongly supports the desire of the Cuban 
people  to  freely  determine  their  own  future.  It  is  the 
Cuban Government, however, that continues to deprive 
them of that aspiration.
Like  other  Member  States,  the  United  States 
determines its conduct of economic relationships with 
other countries in accordance with its national interests 
and principles. Our sanctions policy toward Cuba is just 
one of the tools in our overall effort to encourage respect 
for  the  human  rights  and  basic  freedoms  to  which  the 
United Nations itself is committed. We therefore stand 
in opposition to draft resolution A/67/L.2.
The Obama Administration’s priority is to empower 
Cubans to freely determine their own future. The most 
effective tool we have for accomplishing that is building 
connections between the Cuban and American peoples. 
Those  connections  give  Cubans  the  support  and  tools 
they  need  to  move  forward,  independent  of  their 
Government.  United  States  citizens  engaging  in  well-
defined,  purposeful  travel  are  the  best  ambassadors 
for  our  democratic  ideals.  The  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  Cuban-Americans  who  have  sent  remittances  and 
travelled to the island since we eased the way for them 
early in the Obama Administration are a central part of 
a strategy to ensure that Cubans have the opportunities 
that 
travel, 
remittance  and  people-to-people  policies  are  helping 
Cubans by providing alternative sources of information, 
taking  advantage  of  emerging  opportunities  for  self-
employment  and  private  property,  and  strengthening 
independent civil society.
they  deserve.  The  Administration’s 
In  contrast,  Cuba’s  draft  resolution  seeks  to 
identify an external scapegoat for the island’s economic 
problems,  when  they  are  principally  caused  by  the 
economic  policies  that  the  Cuban  Government  has 
pursued  for  the  past  half  century.  While  we  note  and 
welcome  Cuba’s  recent  changes  to  allow  greater  self-
employment and liberalize the real estate market, Cuba 
still  has  one  of  the  most  restrictive  economic  systems 
in  the  world.  Irrespective  of  United  States  policy,  it 
is  unrealistic  to  expect  the  Cuban  economy  to  thrive 
until  the  Cuban  Government  opens  State  monopolies 
to  private  competition, 
fully  empowers  Cuban 
entrepreneurs,  respects  intellectual  property  rights, 
allows unfettered access to the Internet, and adopts the 
sound macroeconomic policies that have contributed to 
the economic success of many of Cuba’s neighbouring 
countries in Latin America.
I  want  to  make  clear  that  the  United  States  is  in 
fact  a  deep  and  abiding  friend  of  the  Cuban  people. 
In  2011,  the  Cuban  people  received  an  estimated 
$2 billion in remittances, made possible by the Obama 
Administration’s  policies.  In  2011,  United  States 
companies  exported  $352  million 
in  agricultural 
products, medical devices, medicine and humanitarian 
items  to  Cuba.  Indeed,  by  the  Cuban  Government’s 
own account, the United States is in fact one of Cuba’s 
principal  trading  partners.  Additionally,  in  2011  the 
United  States  authorized  over  $1.2  billion  in  private 
humanitarian  assistance  in  the  form  of  gift  parcels 
filled  with  food  and  other  basic  necessities,  as  well 
as  non-agricultural  and  medical  donations.  Far  from 
restricting aid to the Cuban people, we are proud to be 
one of the leading providers of humanitarian assistance. 
As  we  share  with  the  Cuban  people  the  experience  of 
20 
12-58675
having  withstood  the  wrath  of  Hurricane  Sandy,  we 
extend our condolences to them and others in the region.
We  remain  committed  to  policies  that  support 
the  welfare  of  the  Cuban  people,  despite  the  arrest 
and  continued  detention  of  Alan  Gross,  a  63-year-old 
American  citizen  who  was  sentenced  to  15  years  in 
prison for facilitating Internet access for Cuba’s small 
Jewish  community.  The  United  States  again  calls  on 
Cuba to immediately release Mr. Gross.
The  United  States  continues  to  call  on  the  Cuban 
Government  to  finally  allow  Cuban  citizens  to  enjoy 
the  internationally  recognized  political  and  economic 
freedoms  to  which  this  body  is  committed.  The 
international  community  cannot  in  good  conscience 
ignore  the  ease  and  frequency  with  which  the  Cuban 
regime  silences  critics,  disrupts  peaceful  assembly 
and impedes independent journalism. As of September 
2012,  the  number  of  short-term,  politically  motivated 
detentions  had  already  surpassed  the  nearly  4,000 
similar detentions recorded for all of 2011.
The  draft  resolution  before  us  serves  only  to 
distract  from  the  real  problems  facing  the  Cuban 
people, and therefore my delegation will oppose it. We 
encourage this body to support the desires of the Cuban 
people  to  determine  their  own  future  freely.  By  doing 
so, it would truly advance the principles of the United 
Nations Charter and the purposes for which the United 
Nations was created.
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  Allow  me,  through  you,  Mr.  President, 
to  thank  our  dear  comrade  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba, 
for the important update he has given us this morning on 
the  negative  impact  and  consequences  of  the  criminal 
and illegal blockade imposed unilaterally by the United 
States of America against Cuban children, women and 
men.
For  the  twenty-first  time  the  General  Assembly, 
representing the people and Governments of the world, 
will  express  in  an  unequivocal  and  almost  unanimous 
way  its  call  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade.  The  Assembly  will  speak  out 
against the suffering of the Cuban people. It will speak 
out  for  an  end  to  the  imperial  and  irrational  policies 
of  the  United  States  of  America  and  for  an  end  to 
its  unilateral,  extraterritorial  economic  measures. 
Nicaragua  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  draft 
resolution A/67/L.2.
A/67/PV.35
We reiterate our commitment and thanks to, support 
of and solidarity with the generous Cuban nation, whose 
only sin has been to set a good example for the peoples 
of  the  world  with  their  unconditional  solidarity  with 
and  commitment  to  the  poorest  people  on  the  planet, 
teaching  literacy,  caring  for  the  sick  and  offering 
programmes  for  the  disabled.  The  world  benefits 
more  and  more  from  Cuba’s  militant  solidarity,  its 
ambassadorship for peace and development, its doctors, 
teachers and engineers, who share their knowledge and 
their lives with our peoples, helping us to climb out of 
the penury of the poverty we have inherited.
I  would  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  what  our 
comrade  President,  Comandante  Daniel  Ortega,  said 
recently about our cooperation and exchange with Cuba. 
“We learn much from our Cuban brothers, we have 
learned much and we are learning much right now. 
The  contributions  our  Cuban  brothers  have  been 
making  to  us  over  these  years  are  immense.  And 
the great deal that they do, they do without making 
too much noise about it. Indeed, some things have 
to  be  done  in  silence,  to  quote  the  famous  Cuban 
television series.” 
Cuba  contributes  support  to  the  whole  of  humanity. 
That  derives  from  the  spirit  and  practice  of  Fidel 
Castro, Raúl Castro, the Cuban people themselves and 
the ideals of people in the mould of José Martí. 
Today, yet again, sadly, we heard the perpetrator of 
the blockade try to justify what the world with one voice 
has declared unjustifiable, all in an attempt to break the 
spirit of a people who will never surrender, who possess 
the  will  of  Martí  and  an  absolute  determination,  who 
have  proudly  defended  their  sovereignty  and  their 
socialist revolution and who are exemplars of solidarity 
and high thinking in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
The  Government  of  the  United  States  obsessively 
persists  in  its  criminal  blockade  at  all  costs  and  in 
defiance of the General Assembly. The rejection of that 
retrograde policy grows ever stronger. Even American 
citizens  themselves  are  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
blockade.
After  21  years,  and  well  into  the  twenty-first 
century,  it  is  past  time  to  end  those  American 
measures  that  violate  international  law,  human  rights, 
international humanitarian law and the United Nations 
Charter. The General Assembly has been categorical in 
that demand. The United States must stop disregarding 
what is a universal clamour. What a beautiful gesture it 
12-58675
21
A/67/PV.35
would be if the United States finally heeded our voices 
and our calls for it to rectify its policies!
The blockade is still the greatest obstacle to Cuba’s 
economic  and  social  development.  We  hope  that  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  will  reconsider  and 
desist  in  its  criminal  blockade.  We  also  hope  that  it 
will  reconsider  and  desist  in  supporting  self-avowed 
terrorists who walk the streets freely in North America 
and  collaborate  in  planning  terrorist  attacks  against 
the  people  and  Government  of  Cuba.  As  part  of  our 
call  for  reconsideration  of  the  wrong-headed  United 
States policies towards Cuba, we also demand that the 
United States immediately and unconditionally free the 
five heroic Cuban patriots held in prison in the United 
States — heroes who proudly and bravely defended their 
country  against  attacks  and  terrorist  acts  perpetrated 
from United States soil. 
Now  more 
than  ever 
it 
is  our  duty 
to 
energetically  condemn  the  criminal  blockade  against 
Cuba  —  a  blockade  the  United  States  makes  more 
intense  and  harsher  every  year  —  and  to  condemn 
all  unilateral  coercive,  extraterritorial  measures  that 
violate  international  law  and  accepted  norms  of  free 
trade. Those measures represent a grave threat to peace 
and  multilateralism,  a  disgrace  to  human  values  and 
an  obstacle  to  mutual  understanding  and  coexistence 
among nations.
Let  us  once  again  here  in  the  General  Assembly 
join our voices in a call demanding that the Government 
of  the  United  States,  on  this  twenty-first  consecutive 
occasion, put an end to its criminal, inhumane blockade 
against the heroic and generous people and Government 
of Cuba. We will again vote in favour of its removal.
To conclude, I want to say yet again that imperialist 
policies  and  acts  of  aggression  in  our  Latin  American 
region  are  unacceptable.  The  Latin  America  and 
Caribbean  region  is  now  more  than  ever  united  and 
committed  to  policies  that  promote  peace  and  good 
neighbourliness,  foster  friendly  relations,  unity  and 
cooperation  and  support  sustainable  development  and 
the  people’s  well-being,  without  external  interference, 
imperialist  encroachments,  blockades  or  coercive 
economic measures.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take 
action on draft resolution A/67/L.2, entitled “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape  Verde, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
22 
12-58675
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, Palau, United States of America
Abstaining:
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of)
Draft resolution A/67/L.2 was adopted by 188 votes 
to 3, with 2 abstentions (resolution 67/4).
The President: Before giving the f loor to speakers 
in  explanation  of  vote  after  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  First  of  all,  we  would  like 
to  congratulate  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Cuba  on  his 
statement. We also wish to thank the delegation of the 
United  States  for  its  statement  explaining  its  position 
in regard to resolution 67/4, which was just adopted by 
Member States by an overwhelming majority.
Nigeria  is  fully  committed  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
all States, non-interference in their internal affairs and 
freedom of international trade and navigation. Nigeria 
believes in the inalienable right of every State to decide 
on  the  development  model  that  suits  its  environment, 
people  and  culture.  In  that  regard,  Nigeria  favours 
the  lifting  of  all  unilateral  punitive  sanctions  to 
settle  political  disputes,  especially  when  applied 
extraterritorially. 
The adoption of the resolution by 188 votes in favour 
indicates  the  desire  of  the  international  community  and 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  Assembly  to  see  an 
end  of  the  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  by  the  United 
States of America against Cuba. For decades, the Cuban 
people have been subjected to untold hardship due to the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on  their  country  by  the  United  States  of  America.  As 
a sovereign and independent nation, the Cuban people 
have the inalienable right to self-determination and to 
choose  the  form  of  Government  that  they  want.  They 
also  have  the  right  to  exercise  their  sovereignty  and 
self-determination  devoid  of  all  threats,  pressures  and 
interference  in  their  internal  affairs.  The  respect  of 
the territorial integrity of all nations is also a cardinal 
principle of international law and of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
A/67/PV.35
My  delegation  recalls  that,  at  the  seventeenth 
ordinary session of the Assembly of Heads of State and 
Government, held in June/July 2011, the African Union 
(AU) adopted a resolution calling on the United States 
of  America  to  end  the  economic  and  trade  embargo 
on Cuba so that the people of that country could enjoy 
the  legitimate  prospect  of  sustainable  development. 
Nigeria  will  continue  to  abide  by  that  AU  resolution 
and  all  United  Nations  resolutions  calling  for  the  end 
of  the  economic  blockade  against  Cuba.  We  believe 
that the continued embargo against Cuba runs counter 
to  the  principles  of  multilateralism,  international  law, 
sovereignty and free trade that all States hold so dearly 
and that the United Nations has admirably championed 
over the years. 
In  that  context,  we  supported  the  resolution  and 
oppose  the  needless  and  collective  punishment  of 
innocent people. We favour the dismantling not only of 
the structures for the enforcement of the embargo, but 
also of the underpinning logic for its existence.
Mrs. Tembo (Zambia): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for according me this opportunity to contribute to this 
important  agenda  item.  Zambia  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements delivered earlier today by the representatives 
of Algeria on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, of 
Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of 
Cape Verde on behalf of the African States.
Zambia  has  been  supporting,  voting  and  speaking 
in  favour  of  the  resolution  on  ending  the  embargo 
against Cuba for the last two decades that the General 
Assembly  has  considered  the  issue.  Today,  we  again 
remain  steadfast  and  reaffirm  our  full  support  for 
resolution 67/4. 
We  unequivocally  call  upon  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  of  America  to  lift  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  on  the 
people  of  Cuba.  That  embargo  violates  international 
law, the principles and purposes of the United Nations 
Charter  with  regard  to  the  sovereignty,  equality  of 
States  and  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in 
their internal affairs. It runs counter to the freedom of 
international trade and navigation.
embargo 
constitutes 
The 
extraterritorial 
a 
contravention  of  a  sovereign  State’s  right  to  peace, 
development  and  security.  Over  the  past  50  years, 
the  people  of  Cuba  have  suffered  heavily  due  to  the 
effects  of  that  unjust,  unfair  and  inhumane  embargo. 
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  economic,  commercial  and 
12-58675
23
A/67/PV.35
financial embargo against the people of Cuba has been 
maintained  and  further  tightened  despite  the  growing 
and categorical demand of the international community, 
especially the General Assembly, for its elimination.
The  embargo  has  chained  the  people  of  Cuba 
and  adversely  stif led  the  growth  of  their  economy. 
The  United  States  has  frozen  more  Cuban  assets  and 
punished more foreign companies that have conducted 
transactions with Cuba. It is estimated that the embargo 
has caused economic damage of about $1 trillion in the 
past five decades. That loss is not just to the people of 
Cuba but to the whole world economy.
My delegation, however, applauds and admires the 
people  of  Cuba  and  their  leaders  for  their  resilience, 
hard  work  and  dedication  to  the  advancement  of  their 
great  country  despite  the  embargo  that  was  meant  to 
shackle them. They have remained steadfast and risen 
above  their  problems  to  succeed  in  various  fields  for 
the benefit of themselves and friends abroad, including 
many Zambians. To the Zambian people, Cuba is an all-
weather friend and needs the support of the international 
community on this issue.
We  strongly  believe  in  the  principle  that  injustice 
to  one  is  injustice  to  all.  The  injustice  that  has  been 
perpetuated against the people of Cuba over the past 50 
years through the embargo can happen to any Member 
State  of  this  great  global  body  —  the  United  Nations. 
Therefore, my delegation demands that the Government 
of  the  United  States  unconditionally  lift  the  embargo 
against the people of Cuba.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
24 
12-58675
