United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
42nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 28 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.42
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Agenda item 12
Sport for peace and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/282)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.26)
The President: I give the f loor to the representative 
of Monaco to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.26.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  In  my 
capacity  as  co-Chair  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace  and  on  behalf  of  my 
co-Chair  Tunisia  and  the  other  sponsors  of  today’s 
draft  resolution,  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to promote 
education,  health,  development  and  peace”,  contained 
in  document  A/67/L.26.  On  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Friends, I would also like to welcome our new members, 
Japan and Denmark.
The  year  2011  marked  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  mandate  of  the  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and 
of  that  Office  within  the  United  Nations.  The  efforts 
led  by  the  Special  Advisers,  Mr.  Ogi  and  Mr.  Lemke, 
during  the  past  10  years  have  helped  to  establish  the 
recognition  of  sport  as  a  tool  for  promoting  the  goals 
of  peace  and  development,  as  enshrined  in  the  ideals 
of the Charter of the United Nations. Sport has adopted 
values  that  tend  to  promote  social  inclusion,  gender 
equality, tolerance, respect for rules and health through 
its  striving  to  outdo  itself.  Support  for  such  values 
is  fundamental  and  should  be  encouraged  in  a  world 
dealing with new challenges every day.
In  the  context  of  the  duty  we  bear  to  strive  for  a 
peaceful,  better  world,  we  must  put  to  good  use  all  of 
the  means  available  to  us,  and  sport  is  one  of  them. 
We  can  all  use  sport,  collectively  or  individually,  in 
many situations, as the report of the Secretary-General 
(A/67/282) emphasizes. That is because, where politics 
sometimes  fail  and  life  discriminates,  sport  can  bring 
divided  and  devastated  peoples  and  communities 
together  and  include  everybody,  regardless  of  social 
class, age, race and even disability.
This  year’s  biennial  draft  resolution  introduces 
a  new  programme  oriented  towards  the  work  of  the 
Office of the Special Adviser, to whom I would like to 
express  our  sincere  congratulations  on  his  leadership 
and the determination with which he has been working 
on  the  ground,  both  concretely  and  effectively,  to 
further  our  goals.  He  has  succeeded  in  meeting  the 
challenge of integrating sport as an instrument capable 
of  responding  to  a  large  number  of  cross-cutting 
issues  relating  to  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  many  situations  he  has  shown 
that  sport  can  contribute  significantly  to  dealing  with 
society’s problems.
The  draft  resolution  also  highlights  the  crucial 
and  growing  importance  of  women  in  sport  and  how 
essential  it  is  to  empower  them,  if  we  are  to  achieve 
lasting  development.  Similarly,  it  seeks  to  encourage 
the full participation of developing countries, especially 
the least developed, in efforts to develop national sports 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-61261 (E)
*1261261*
A/67/PV.42
institutions and capacities that will enable them to take 
advantage of economic opportunities.
wishing to become sponsors, that the list will be open 
until the end of the debate on this agenda item.
In the light of the success and enormous popularity 
of  some  of  the  great  recent  sporting  events,  the  draft 
to  acknowledge  and  strengthen 
resolution  seeks 
private-public  partnerships 
in  sport,  which  can 
have  very  positive  effects  on  the  development  of 
social  and  institutional  infrastructures.  The  draft 
resolution  also  welcomes  the  numerous  partnerships 
established between the United Nations system and the 
International  Olympic  Committee  since  its  attainment 
of  observer  status  in  the  General  Assembly.  It  also 
affirms  the  contribution  that  the  Olympic  movement 
has  made  to  establishing  sport  as  a  unique  means  of 
promoting peace and development, particularly through 
the Olympic Truce.
In  my  national  capacity,  I  would  also  like  to 
recall  the  Principality  of  Monaco’s  commitment  to 
further strengthening the power of sport. Their Serene 
Highnesses  Prince  Albert  II  and  Princess  Charlene, 
themselves both Olympians, are determined to promote 
sport as a tool for development and peace. Both within 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace, which we are pleased to say is mentioned in the 
text of the draft resolution for the first time, and in its 
general  policies,  Monaco  seeks  to  promote  dialogue 
and facilitate and encourage the integration of sport in 
order to achieve the goals of the United Nations.
Sport’s  unprecedented  ability  to  mobilize  people 
gives  us  this  opportunity,  now  fully  recognized,  to 
defend  our  ideals  and  share  our  ambitions  to  fight 
poverty  and  achieve  peace.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the 
International University of Monaco and the University 
for Peace have formed a partnership, which, supported 
by  Peace  and  Sport,  a  global  initiative  under  the  high 
patronage of Prince Albert II, enables students to take 
master’s degrees in innovative subjects such as lasting 
peace through sport. I would also like to recall the sixth 
Peace  and  Sport  International  Forum,  which  just  took 
place  in  Sochi  in  the  Russian  Federation  and  which 
discussed the effectiveness of the Olympic Games as a 
diplomatic platform.
I  cannot  close  without  offering  the  Government 
of  Monaco’s  hearty  congratulations  to  the  British 
authorities for the magic moments they gave us during 
the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  in  London.  On 
a  technical  point,  I  would  also  like  to  thank  all  the 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  and  note,  for  those 
Mrs. Harbaoui (Tunisia) (spoke in French): I would 
first like to express my delegation’s satisfaction with the 
publication  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled 
“Sport  for  development  and  peace:  mainstreaming  a 
versatile  instrument”  (A/67/282),  and  to  welcome  the 
activities  undertaken  during  the  past  year  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  particularly  by  the  Office  on 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  I  would  also  like 
to  emphasize  my  delegation’s  appreciation  for  the 
untiring and continuing efforts of Mr. Wilfried Lemke, 
Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for 
Development and Peace. We wish him every success in 
his  worthy  task  and  assure  him  of  our  full  support  in 
his  efforts  to  maximize  the  success  of  programmes  to 
promote sport around the world.
Sport  is  a  determining  element  in  setting  norms 
of  good  citizenship  and  therefore  plays  a  special  role 
in  promoting  the  coherence  of  a  healthy  social  fabric. 
We believe that access to sport is a fundamental social 
right  and  that  sport  is  an  important  agent  for  social 
cohesion and development. It promotes high values and 
contributes  to  a  solid  education  for  our  children  and 
young people.
Sport has become part of the United Nations value 
system — an effective tool to be included from now on 
as  one  of  our  Organization’s  main  themes.  I  reiterate 
Tunisia’s resolve to take steps to enlist sport’s capacity 
to  promote  communication  and  understanding  and 
make  it  a  powerful  national  and  international  agent 
for  inclusion  and  development,  as  well  as  a  means  to 
promote solidarity, tolerance and cultural and personal 
diversity.  I  also  welcome  the  interest  shown  in  sport 
by the whole of our membership and the general belief 
in  its  worldwide  utility  as  a  tool  for  promoting  peace, 
development, education and health.
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  voice  our  warm 
congratulations  to  the  United  Kingdom  on  having 
organized the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in 
London. Those two events solidified the principle of the 
Olympic Truce and the ideals of the United Nations and 
the  Olympic  movement  —  friendship  among  peoples, 
harmony, 
non-discrimination. 
They  also  clearly  demonstrated  sport’s  ability  to 
promote  unity  and  friendship  and  the  shared  spirit  of 
sportsmanship among athletes and fans, no matter what 
their  origins,  political  leanings  or  faiths.  I  also  want 
non-violence 
and 
2 
12-61261
A/67/PV.42
to congratulate the Russian Federation on its upcoming 
Winter  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  in  2014  in 
Sochi and the Brazilian Government for its selection to 
host two major sporting events, the 2014 International 
Federation of Association Football World Cup and the 
Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016.
Given the potential of sport to inspire and its vital 
contribution  in  energizing  new  generations  avid  for 
physical  and  mental  health,  Tunisia  urges  Member 
States  to  take  all  measures  necessary  to  address  the 
dangerous phenomenon of doping, which threatens not 
only athletes’ health but also the image and credibility 
of  sporting  events.  We  welcome  the  growing  number 
of  Member  States  that  have  signed  the  International 
Convention against Doping in Sport. It is also important 
to  ensure  that  education  systems  and  civil  society 
organizations  educate  young  people  about  the  ethics 
of  sport  and  sportsmanship,  so  as  to  prevent  sports 
arenas and events from being used to promulgate racist, 
xenophobic and exclusionary slogans.
Zealous  to  nurture  the  tradition  of  sportsmanship 
and to utilize sport in the promotion of universal shared 
values for the benefit of future generations, my country 
joins Monaco in introducing draft resolution A/67/L.26, 
entitled “Sport as a means to promote education, health, 
development  and  peace”,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and  the 
sponsors.
The draft resolution urges all concerned parties to 
cooperate  with  the  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  in  expanding  awareness  of  the  importance 
of  including  sport  in  development  programmes,  and 
encourages  Member  States  to  name  focal  points  on 
sport  for  development  and  peace,  as  well  as  to  create 
innovative partnerships with the United Nations Office 
on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  I  hope  that  the 
draft  resolution  will  enjoy  the  support  of  all  Member 
States, which would send a strong message to the men 
and  women  working  nobly  to  promote  the  practice  of 
sport and raise the cheer of all athletes.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  drafted  in  San 
Francisco, set out principles for what was to be a new 
system  of  international  relations  that  would  prevent  a 
repetition  of  the  horrific  experiences  of  the  twentieth 
century’s  two  World  Wars.  The  primary  challenge  set 
out  in  the  first  sentence  of  the  Preamble  is  “to  save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war”  and 
to create a democratic, equitable world order based on 
equal respect for the dignity of all people.
The  Organization  that  we  belong  to  today  was 
created  for  those  purposes,  with  the  stated  goal  of 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  based 
on the ideals of the sovereign equality of all Members, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes,  the 
non-use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  and  non-intervention 
in the internal affairs of States. The promise was also 
held  out  that  all  peoples  would  achieve  economic  and 
social progress.
However,  after  more  than  six  decades  of  the 
Organization’s  existence,  we  are  witness 
to  a 
dismal  economic  and  social  picture,  characterized 
simultaneously  by  the  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
the  food  and  energy  crises  and  the  harmful  impact 
of  climate  change,  every  day  further  endangering  the 
human race. As a result of those problems, themselves 
the  result  of  the  current  unjust  and  inequitable 
international  order,  the  efforts  of  the  countries  of  the 
South  to  achieve  progress  and  development  have  been 
hampered. Today more than ever we must forge a climate 
of  international  peace,  through  solidarity,  cooperation 
and multilateralism as our fundamental values.
Sport  is  an  important  aspect  of  national  and 
international  development.  Cuba  believes  that  the 
practice  of  sport  strengthens  solidarity  and  friendship 
among nations — elements critical to peace, development 
and cooperation among nations. Following the triumph 
of the Cuban Revolution in 1959, sport ceased to be an 
exclusive  activity  in  our  country,  becoming  instead 
a  right  enjoyed  by  all.  In  order  to  exercise  that  right, 
we have promoted an educational system that includes 
physical education as an integral component of human 
development  at  all  stages.  That  has  led  to  resounding 
successes  in  regional  and  international  competitions. 
An  example  is  Cuba’s  success  in  the  2012  London 
Olympic Games, in which our small developing country 
ranked  sixteenth  in  the  number  of  medals  won.  We 
are  one  of  the  first  developing  countries  to  rank  that 
high.  Similarly,  Cuba  ranked  fifteenth  in  this  year’s 
Paralympic  Games,  in  its  best  performance  to  date, 
winning nine gold medals.
We strive for early sports training for our children, 
allowing us to nurture unique talents destined to meet 
and  raise  the  standards  set  by  our  country  on  the 
international sports stage. At the same time, we oppose 
an athletic spirit motivated purely by financial gain. We 
12-61261
3
A/67/PV.42
therefore  condemn  the  theft  of  athletic  talent,  which 
negatively impacts developing countries.
For  years  the  Cuban  sport  movement,  led  by  the 
Cuban Olympic Committee and the National Institute of 
Sport, Physical Education and Recreation, has provided 
impartial  assistance  to  various  countries  of  the  South 
based  on  bilateral  agreements,  sending  technicians, 
trainers  and  teachers,  who,  in  their  own  modest  way, 
have  conveyed  our  training  methods  in  the  field  of 
sport  and  have  enhanced  the  success  and  increasing 
involvement in sport in those countries, thereby forging 
strong  ties  of  brotherhood  and  friendship  between 
peoples.
We have also strengthened international cooperation 
by making available to countries of the South the Institute 
for  Sports  Medicine  and  the  Anti-doping  Laboratory, 
to  help  fight  the  scourge  of  drugs  that  is  corrupting 
athletes  and  that  impedes  fair  play  and  the  education 
and culture of athletes and trainers. Furthermore, Cuba 
founded the International School of Physical Education 
and  Sports,  which  is  devoted  to  training  professionals 
whose  fundamental  value  is  solidarity  and  who  are 
able to transform physical education and sports in their 
countries.
We  would  also  like  to  highlight  that  the  countries 
of the South also deserve to host the Olympic Games, 
a  forum  for  brotherhood  and  solidarity  in  sports  that 
is  free  from  commercial  interests.  We  are  certain  that 
the 2016 Olympic Games, to be held in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, will be a success for all the South.
We shall further develop international cooperation 
and solidarity through the Olympic ideal. Let us invest 
in  projects  of  education,  culture,  sports  and  health, 
instead  of  spending  billions  on  weapons.  Much  could 
be  done  for  the  right  to  development  of  billions  of 
people worldwide using relatively few resources, if all 
countries had the genuine political resolve to do so.
For  its  part,  Cuba  reiterates  its  decision  to  keep 
sharing,  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  our  principal 
resource,  namely,  the  human  capital  created  by  the 
Cuban Revolution and our best experiences.
Mrs.  Dunlop  (Brazil):  Mr.  President,  I  wish  to 
thank  you  for  convening  today’s  debate.  I  also  thank 
the Secretary-General for his report (A/67/282).
The practice of sports is deeply rooted in Brazilian 
culture  and  society.  Access  to  sports  constitutes  a 
fundamental social right enshrined in our Constitution. 
The  Brazilian  Government  firmly  believes  in  the 
potential  of  sport  as  an  important  factor  for  social 
inclusiveness  and  development.  We  also  consider  it 
a  tool  for  fostering  role-model  values  concurrently 
with a solid upbringing for all our children and youth. 
Accordingly,  sport  in  Brazil  is  traditionally  regarded 
as  being  instrumental  in  forging  good  standards  of 
citizenship, thereby playing a special role in maintaining 
a healthy social fabric
It is therefore with the utmost satisfaction that Brazil 
welcomes  the  imminent  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.26  on  sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education, 
health,  development  and  peace,  which  we  gladly 
co-sponsor.  That  effort  seems  to  be  in  close  harmony 
with  chief  initiatives  and  programmes  undertaken 
by  Member  States  and  international  organizations  in 
relation  to  the  advancement  of  sport  in  an  integrated 
manner  consistent  with  measures  for  equitable  and 
inclusive social and economic development.
The Brazilian Government envisages sport as part of 
a broader set of policy objectives that also encompasses 
access to education and health. We believe that dealing 
with  sport  in  such  an  integrated  and  holistic  way 
contributes  to  creating  conditions  conducive  to  peace 
and development.
Bearing that in mind, the Brazilian Government has 
launched a series of initiatives that focus on multi-stake 
partnerships with representative institutions from across 
our  civil  society.  For  instance,  we  have  undertaken  a 
programme  that  employs  12,000  inmates  from  State 
prisons  in  manufacturing  sports  equipment,  whose 
output is used in other educational sports programmes 
carried  out  by  the  Brazilian  Government.  In  addition, 
the  so-called  Second  Half  programme,  which  benefits 
more  than  one  million  people,  proposes  part-time 
sports  activities  to  children  and  youngsters  enrolled 
in  public  schools.  Likewise,  pursuant  to  previous 
recommendations  on  the  subject,  Brazil  develops 
international sports cooperation projects in partnership 
with  other  developing  countries,  such  as  Benin, 
Botswana,  Kenya,  Palestine,  South  Africa,  Tanzania, 
Uganda and Zambia. We remain engaged in increasing 
and  expanding  the  scope  of  those  programmes  with 
other  countries  as  well  as  in  launching  initiatives 
in  cooperation  with  United  Nations  agencies  and 
programmes.
We  find  ourselves  at  the  beginning  of  an  exciting 
sport-centred  decade.  Over  the  next  few  years,  Brazil 
will host three sports mega-events — the International 
4 
12-61261
Federation  of  Association  Football  (FIFA)  World  Cup 
in 2013, next year, the FIFA World Cup in 2014, and the 
Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016. In the coming 
years, sports will be at the top of the Brazilian social, 
political and economic agenda. We welcome all to the 
aforementioned events in Brazil.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
inclusiveness.  Hence 
The decision to host these mega-events is consistent 
with the priority granted to the promotion of sustainable 
development  and  social 
the 
Brazilian Government remains committed to fostering 
and  adopting  public  policies  that  ensure  that  hosting 
those events will help generate more jobs, improve our 
nationwide  infrastructure  and  increase  opportunities 
for  Brazilian  youth.  Brazil  also  hopes  that  the  mega-
events  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to  share 
experience  in  promoting  sports  as  a  means  to  achieve 
social  inclusiveness  and  enhance  the  development  of 
partnerships  with  other  nations,  especially  developing 
ones.
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): Baron 
Pierre  de  Coubertin  believed  that  building  peace  and 
a better world required providing young people with a 
sports education and opportunities to get involved with 
sports.  Thus  it  would  be  possible  to  create  a  lifestyle 
based on the happiness that comes from effort, from the 
educational value of a good example and from respect 
for  the  fundamental  ethical  principles.  That  legacy 
remains  in  full  force,  as  was  demonstrated  by  the 
impeccable Olympic and Paralympic Games in London, 
where  maximum  effort,  unity,  friendship  and  fair  and 
healthy competition filled our lives to overf lowing and 
f lourished as common values of humankind.
Sport  plays  a  relevant  role  in  the  promotion  of 
social  development  and  is  a  means  par  excellence 
for  communication  between  peoples  and  for  the 
maintenance  of  world  peace.  That  is  why  Costa  Rica 
welcomes the fact that the United Nations has included 
it on its agenda.
Our  country  recognizes  the  potential  of  sport 
as  a  universal  practice  that  contributes  to  educating 
people in the values of respect, diversity and tolerance. 
We  also  recognize  the  value  of  sport  as  a  means  to 
combat  all  forms  of  discrimination.  Accordingly,  we 
must  make  the  necessary  efforts  to  ensure  that  sport 
is fully included in our national development agendas. 
Sports  and  physical  activity  must  not  be  omitted  or 
A/67/PV.42
sidelined  from  the  challenges  that  a  country  faces, 
Quite  the  contrary,  they  should  be  part  of  the  process 
of transformation for a country’s full development. The 
organizing  committees  of  major  international  sports 
events have recognized the legacy that games can leave 
by raising awareness on matters such as social inclusion 
and  human  rights  and  by  fostering  opportunities  to 
create and transform infrastructure with positive long-
lasting effects.
Last  year,  the  General  Assembly  unanimously 
adopted  resolution  66/5,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”. 
Even more significant was the fact that it was the first 
time  in  history  that  a  resolution  was  co-sponsored  by 
the  193  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Only 
sport has been able to achieve that feat.
Sport  is  more  than  a  luxury  or  a  form  of 
entertainment;  it  is  more  than  just  winning  medals. 
Access  to  and  participation  in  sport  and  in  physical 
activity  are  essential  to  lead  a  full  and  healthy  life. 
Moreover, sport has also proved to be an instrument for 
the most disadvantaged, for public health and for social 
inclusion, in particular when focused on education and 
prevention.  It  empowers  minorities  and  enables  them 
to have a dignified place in society, as the Paralympic 
movement and streetfootballworld have accomplished.
Sport also has a strong impact on the global economy 
in  the  creation  of  employment,  in  the  development  of 
new undertakings and in public investment. The United 
Nations  and  other  international  entities,  including  the 
International Olympic Committee and the international 
sports federations, have begun to recognize, beyond elite 
sports,  the  enormous  potential  of  widely  participatory 
sports as a generator of social change. Athletes can be 
a  valuable  instrument  in  promoting  social  stability, 
reconciliation  and  dialogue.  As  models  for  behaviour, 
they  can  help  raise  awareness  of  matters  such  as 
participation, non-discrimination, gender equality and 
the rights of persons with disabilities.
For the first time in its history, San José, the capital 
of  Costa  Rica,  will  host  in  February  2013  the  Central 
American  Games,  which  were  established  just  a  few 
years ago. The President of the Republic and the Mayor 
of  San  José  have  expressed  their  total  commitment  to 
the organization of those Games, as they are an excellent 
opportunity  to  use  sports  to  promote  the  values  of 
peace,  human  security  and  social  development  among 
the Central American family.
12-61261
5
A/67/PV.42
to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport 
In addition to that effort, our country continues to 
work  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  various  international 
organizations  related  to  sport.  Along  with  the  Special 
Adviser 
for 
Development and Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke, and with 
other  Member  States,  we  are  promoting  the  initiative 
to  organize  in  Geneva  a  group  of  friends  of  sport  for 
development and peace to replicate the group that already 
exists  in  New  York.  Together  with  the  International 
Olympic  Committee  and 
the  National  Olympic 
Committee of Costa Rica, we are seeking opportunities 
for  cooperation  using  sport  as  an  instrument  of  social 
prevention. Together with the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime, we are promoting the organization of 
a programme for young people at social risk. Working 
with  the  Alianza  A  Ganar,  we  have  developed  a 
programme  for  training  and  employing  youth  through 
sport.  With  the  non-governmental  organization  Peace 
and Sport, we are working to establish a regional forum 
for peace and sport in Costa Rica. With regard to gender 
matters, in 2011 we signed the Brighton Declaration on 
Women and Sport.
We  trust  that  the  international  community  will 
continue on its steady path towards achieving the ideals 
that  were  outlined  by  Baron  de  Coubertin  more  than 
one hundred years ago for the benefit of humankind.
Mr.  Stone  (Australia):  Australia  is  committed  to 
the principles of sport for development and peace and to 
the role the United Nations can play in furthering those 
principles.  We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  this  subject  introduced  this  morning 
(A/67/282)  and  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on 
Sport for Development and Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke, 
for  his  ongoing  efforts  to  promote  the  United  Nations 
work in this field. We would also like to thank Monaco 
for  introducing  draft  resolution  A/67/L.26,  which  is 
before us today. Australia is pleased to co-sponsor the 
draft resolution.
Sport’s popularity, its capacity as a communication 
platform  and  its  ability  to  connect  people  make  it  a 
tool  that  can  be  used  to  meet  a  range  of  development 
objectives,  including  contributing  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Australia,  with  a  reputation  as  a 
sporting nation, is well placed to use sport as a vehicle 
to  contribute  to  targeted  development  outcomes.  The 
Australian Sports Outreach Programme supports major 
programmes in seven countries and provides grants for 
smaller  activities  in  over  40  countries  in  Africa,  the 
Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific.
The  Australian  Government’s  approach  to  using 
sport to meet development objectives identifies specific 
development  outcomes  in  two  key  areas  where  we 
believe we can make a real difference and deliver real 
results.
the 
risk 
first 
regards 
The 
reducing 
of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs),  such  as  heart 
disease, diabetes and stroke, which place a significant 
burden on health systems in developing countries already 
struggling  to  cope.  They  also  reduce  productivity  and 
household  income,  keeping  poor  people  poor.  Sport 
can play a powerful role in addressing the risk factors 
causing NCDs, including physical inactivity, unhealthy 
diets and harmful tobacco and alcohol use.
In  March  2012,  Australia,  in  collaboration  with 
the  World  Health  Organization  and  the  Secretariat  of 
the  Pacific  Community,  convened  a  Healthy  Islands 
Through  Sport  Forum  in  Brisbane.  This  regional 
meeting of senior officials of Pacific ministries of health 
and sport aimed to facilitate ongoing collaboration and 
multisectoral  action  to  address  the  risk  factors  that 
cause non-communicable diseases.
Secondly, the Australian Government programmes 
emphasize  the  role  of  sport  in  enhancing  the  lives  of 
people  with  disabilities.  Sport  can  foster  the  inclusion 
and well-being of persons with disabilities and facilitate 
social  inclusion.  For  instance,  Australian  activities 
have  been  provided  to  increase  community  awareness 
about people with disability in Fiji, where the Inspiring 
Fijians rugby team – a combined rugby team from Fiji’s 
special  schools  —  playing  in  front  of  large  crowds 
and  inclusive  community  sports  festivals  have  helped 
promote  more  positive  attitudes  towards  people  with 
disability.
Australia  also  has  a  number  of  programmes  to 
address  the  involvement  of  women  and  girls  in  sport-
related  activities.  These  include  the  sport  leadership 
grants  for  women,  which  provide  opportunities  for 
training  and  skills  development  to  enable  women  to 
take on leadership and decision-making roles in sport.
Australia recognizes the need for all parties around 
the  world  to  be  vigilant  in  protecting  the  integrity  of 
sport. Issues such as doping in sports and illegal sports 
betting have great potential to undermine the ability of 
sport to be used as a vehicle for development.
6 
12-61261
Mr.  Williams  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 
Kingdom  delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  sport  for  development  and 
peace  (A/67/282),  as  well  as  the  latest  draft  resolution 
(A/67/L.26) on sport as a means to promote education, 
health, development and peace.
The  year  2012  has  been  special  for  the  United 
Kingdom,  as  London  played  host  to  the  summer 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games.  We  were  proud  that 
the  Games  set  many  new  records:  sporting  records 
and  records  for  crowds,  for  television  audiences  and 
for  unbridled  spirit.  Throughout  our  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Games campaigning we hoped to ensure that 
the Games would leave a lasting legacy. We were proud 
and grateful to see parts of that legacy — specifically 
the International Inspiration sports legacy programme 
and General Assembly resolution 66/5 on the Olympic 
Truce — mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report. 
We  would  like  to  share  some  additional  information 
about those actions and their follow-up.
International 
Inspiration 
legacy  programme.  At 
is  London  2012’s 
international  sports 
the 
Singapore  bidding  event  in  2005,  we  vowed  to  work 
towards  reaching  out  to  young  people  around  the 
world  to  connect  them  to  the  inspirational  power  of 
the  Games,  in  order  to  inspire  them  to  choose  sport. 
So far, International Inspiration has enriched the lives 
of  at  least  11  million  children  in  20  countries  around 
the world, through high-quality and inclusive physical 
education, sport and play and is on course to reach its 
target of 12 million children by 2014.
The  United  Kingdom  is  also  proud  to  have  had 
the  opportunity  to  sponsor  the  2011  resolution  on  the 
Olympic  Truce.  We  were  extremely  grateful  to  all 
193  Member  States  for  their  sponsorship.  The  United 
Kingdom’s aspiration has been to mobilize the Olympic 
Truce  resolution  around  the  world.  We  hope  to  show 
that there are many aspects of the resolution that can be 
developed to promote peace.
With that in mind, we saw an opportunity to mobilize 
sport and the ideals of the Olympic Truce through the 
conf lict  prevention  work  of  our  diplomatic  missions. 
Working  in  partnership  with  Member  States,  National 
Olympic  Committees,  parliamentarians  and  civil 
society,  including  faith  groups  and  non-governmental 
organizations, we were able to deliver over 80 Olympic 
Truce  activities  on  every  continent.  Examples  include 
organizing  a  range  of  activities  in  collaboration  with 
A/67/PV.42
the  Northern  Uganda  Youth  Development  Centre  to 
celebrate the impact of peace on young people, including 
sporting  events,  a  peace  march  and  work  within  the 
community; and co-hosting a football tournament and 
clinic bringing people together from a diverse range of 
communities in the Philippines, in order to help bridge 
the gap between Christians and Muslims.
However,  none  of  that  would  have  been  possible 
without  the  participation  and  cooperation  of  many 
different partners. We would like to give special thanks 
to the Secretary-General, the President of the General 
Assembly and Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special Adviser to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  for  their  support  for  the  Olympic  Truce  work. 
The  Secretary-General  joined  the  British  Foreign 
Secretary  on  the  eve  of  the  opening  ceremony  of  the 
2012 London Games, on 27 July, where both recognized 
the importance of the Olympic Truce.
The United Kingdom would also like to extend our 
warm wishes to future Games hosts. This month, British 
Government ministers visited both Moscow and Rio for 
high-level  meetings  as  part  of  my  country’s  Olympic 
handover  and  commitment  to  a  long-term  legacy.  We 
welcome  our  agreements  with  Russia,  Brazil  and  the 
International Olympic Committee to support promotion 
of the ideals of the Olympic Truce, and we remain ready 
and  willing  to  continue  that  work  into  the  future.  We 
encourage  all  Member  States  to  support  and  promote 
the  ideals  of  the  Olympic  Truce  internationally  and 
domestically. Finally, we encourage all Member States 
to support Mr. Lemke’s mandate and his work.
Mr. Karev (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
The  Russian  Federation  highly  commends  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  international 
sport  cooperation  and  contributing 
to  enhancing 
mutual  understanding  among  peoples  and  achieving 
understanding among civilizations. We are witnessing 
a  difficult  period  in  international  relations  in  terms 
of  globalization  and  dealing  with  the  consequences 
of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  along 
with  increasing  social,  intercultural  and  international 
conf licts and bouts of extremism.
Given  those  issues,  the  international  community 
must, more than ever before, continue its efforts aimed 
at  ensuring  that  sport  —  with  its  massive  potential  to 
promote  unity —  becomes  a  motor  for  comprehensive 
economic  and  social  development  and  a  means  for 
achieving solidarity, tolerance and cultural diversity.
12-61261
7
A/67/PV.42
We  believe  that  sport  is  a  powerful  tool  for 
educating  young  people  in  mutual  respect,  tolerance, 
and  rejection  of  xenophobia.  Of  particular  importance 
today,  it  can  protect  young  people  from  the  inf luence 
of destructive forces that provoke negative phenomena, 
including terrorism.
The  Russian  Federation  supports  the  idea  that 
sport  should  develop  according  to  its  own  rules  and 
independently of the political situation. In particular, it 
should not serve as a pretext for intrigues or blackmail. 
In that regard, we welcome draft resolution A/67/L.26, 
submitted  by  Monaco  and  Tunisia,  the  chairs  of  the 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace, 
on  sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education,  health, 
development and peace. In our view, the document refers 
to  the  efforts  currently  under  way  by  Member  States 
and international entities aimed at developing sport and 
enhancing its contribution in addressing many serious 
contemporary  problems.  The  Russian  Federation  is 
pleased  to  have  sponsored  the  draft  resolution.  The 
integration of sports ties into development efforts is an 
important  priority  in  the  Russian  Federation’s  foreign 
policy and is constantly borne in mind by the Russian 
Government.
As  is  well  known,  the  Russian  city  of  Sochi  has 
been  selected  as  the  site  of  the  XXII  Winter  Olympic 
Games  and  the  XI  Winter  Paralympic  Games  in 
2014.  We  consider  that  selection  to  be  a  very  positive 
assessment  by  the  international  community  of  the 
achievements  of  Russian  sport  and  recognition  of  the 
Russian  Federation’s  successful  social,  economic  and 
political development efforts in recent years. We hope 
that the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi will go down 
in history as one of the most innovative ever.
Many  of  the  preparation  efforts  are  being  carried 
out  for  the  very  first  time,  and  whatever  remains  will 
become part of the legacy of the Olympic Games. One 
of the innovations is the close proximity of the sporting 
and infrastructure sites, which will facilitate movement 
and  avoid  transportation  problems.  We  are  building 
modern  sporting  installations  in  Sochi,  especially  for 
the 2014 Olympic Games, with the use of cutting-edge 
technology  and  construction  aimed  at  protecting  the 
environment.
We  remain  hopeful 
the  Sochi  Olympic 
Games  will  set  new  standards  for  the  hosting  of 
major  international  sporting  events  and  will  help  to 
introduce cutting-edge technology in construction and 
that 
environmental  protection  and  in  creating  an  inclusive 
environment.  We  are  convinced  that  the  upcoming 
Olympic  Games  will  foster  further  economic  growth 
in  the  region  and  enable  Sochi  to  become  a  world-
class  resort  and  business  centre.  That,  in  turn,  will 
ensure the improvement of the living conditions of the 
people throughout the entire region. The Olympic and 
Paralympic Games will serve to further positive change 
in Russian society. More attention will be provided to 
protecting the environment and integrating people with 
disabilities into the active life of society.
sport 
bring 
competitions 
Sport  is  a  universal  language  of  communication. 
Organized 
together 
representatives  from  various  countries,  cultures  and 
religions, which reveals the major unifying potential of 
sport as an effective channel for advancing the culture 
of  peace  and  dialogue  among  civilizations,  and  we 
should take full advantage of that potential.
Mr.  Ovsyanko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  In 
October  2011,  the  General  Assembly  unanimously 
adopted  resolution  66/5,  “Building  a  peaceful  and 
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”, 
sponsored  by  193  States.  In  adopting  that  resolution, 
the  Member  States  affirmed  their  commitment  to 
the  Olympic  ideals,  one  of  the  most  important  of 
which  is  non-discrimination.  As  it  is  set  out  in  the 
Olympic  Charter,  any  form  of  religious  or  political 
discrimination  is  incompatible  with  belonging  to  the 
Olympic Movement.
The resolution called for reconciliation during the 
Olympic Games through the establishment of peaceful 
conditions  and  safe  travel  and  participation  for  the 
athletes and others taking part in the Games. In practice, 
the  experience  of  the  most  recent  Olympiad  showed 
that  not  every  State  fulfilled  its  proper  obligations  as 
laid  down  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Olympic 
Movement.  It  is  regrettable  to  note  the  trend,  which 
was  vividly  apparent  during  the  Olympic  Games  in 
London,  of  exploiting  international  sports  events  for 
the  purposes  of  putting  pressure  on  sovereign  States. 
Such acts not only undermine the spirit and letter of the 
Olympic  Charter  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
they also devalue the principles of the Olympics and of 
sport as a whole.
It is also disturbing to see the trend that turned sport 
from  being  an  expression  of  the  great  achievements 
and  triumphant  potential  of  the  human  body,  will 
and  mind  to  being  a  contest  between  sponsors  and 
8 
12-61261
pharmacological giants. Partial judges, doping scandals 
and  international  Olympic  officials  who  vote  using 
double  standards  —  all  of  that  conspires  to  prevent 
sport’s  greatest  achievements  from  working  for  the 
harmonious development of humankind and the creation 
of a peaceful society concerned with preserving human 
dignity. We are convinced that the combined efforts of 
the international community, when it demonstrates the 
necessary political will, are capable of putting an end to 
such negative trends.
We  call  for  strengthening  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  its  leadership  in  the  effort  to  develop 
the  international  Olympic  Movement,  combat  such 
negative  inf luences  in  sport  and  support  initiatives  to 
expand human development through sport. We believe 
that  the  time  has  come  to  create  clear  mechanisms 
for  cooperation  between  the  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations, including the President of the General Assembly 
and 
the  International 
Olympic Committee, with the goal of working together 
to  observe  the  Olympic  Truce  among  Member  States 
and enhancing international cooperation.
the  Secretary-General,  and 
Mr.  Milubi  (South  Africa):  It  is  an  honour  and 
privilege  for  South  Africa  to  participate  in  this 
important  debate  on  sport  as  a  means  to  promote 
education,  health,  development  and  peace,  and  we 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  latest  report  on 
sport  for  development  and  peace  (A/67/282).  We  have 
noted  the  tremendous  initiatives  and  national  policies 
and strategies that some Member States have developed 
to enable sport to act as a catalyst for achieving many 
positive aspects of development.
This  debate  comes  just  a  few  months  after  the 
2012  London  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games.  As  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  clearly  states,  the  London 
Olympics, just as other sporting events have done,
“brought  together  diverse  communities  affected 
by  conf lict  to  participate  in  sporting,  cultural 
and  educational  activities  to  promote  conf lict 
prevention and peace” (A/67/282, para. 6).
We are also meeting on the eve of the African Cup of 
Nations soccer tournament, to be held in South Africa 
in  January  2013.  We  hope  it  will  be  an  opportunity 
to  foster  greater  understanding  and  tolerance  among 
different peoples in the spirit of nurturing peace.
It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  legacy  of  the  2010 
International Federation of Association Football World 
A/67/PV.42
Cup  stretches  beyond  the  obvious  tangibles  such  as 
the stadiums, roads, airports, new equipment acquired 
for 
the  police,  emergency  medical  services  and 
other  Government  services.  In  South  Africa  we  have 
experienced how sport can serve as an inspiring force 
for unity and peaceful change. Sport also supports local 
economic development and the creation of jobs through 
the  numerous  income-generating  activities  linked  to 
its  practice.  Before  the  beginning  of  the  World  Cup, 
President  Jacob  Zuma  initiated  the  1Goal  campaign, 
with  a  view  to  advancing  efforts  towards  achieving 
education for all.
South  Africa  views  sport  as  an  important  part 
of  education,  and  the  campaign  is  part  of  a  range  of 
national activities aimed at achieving universal access 
to education. In recognition of that initiative and South 
Africa’s prioritization of education, Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon invited President Zuma to be one of the 10 
inaugural Member State Champions for the Education 
First Initiative, whose purpose is to provide support to 
the  Secretary-General  in  ensuring  that  the  initiative 
enjoys global visibility and success.
As is clearly highlighted in the Secretary-General’s 
report,  South  Africa’s  national  sport  and  recreation 
plan emphasizes the health benefits of an active nation. 
Within the plan there is a special focus on youth, with 
the  understanding  that  increased  physical  fitness  can 
improve children’s resistance to some diseases and that 
sport can help reduce the rate of adolescent pregnancies, 
which  bring  with  them  higher  risks.  The  programmes 
proposed in the plan can also be used to reduce stigma 
and  increase  the  social  and  economic  integration  of 
people living with HIV and AIDS.
In implementing our mass participation programme, 
Sport and Recreation South Africa, our experience has 
been  that  using  sport  to  promote  peace  is  extremely 
effective in programmes at the community level, since 
they  directly  involve  those  affected  by  conf lict  and 
social  tension.  Sport  also  offers  a  sense  of  normality, 
especially  to  young  people,  in  times  of  instability.  As 
an example, the programme Peace Players International 
used  basketball  to  help  with  the  positive  development 
of 
the  young  people  of  KwaZulu-Natal.  Trained 
coaches  served  as  mentors,  as  well  as  educators,  and 
used interactive games to reach children in discussing 
sensitive  topics,  such  as  HIV  and  AIDS  prevention, 
gender roles and drugs and alcohol awareness.
The  South  African  Department  of  Sport  and 
Recreation  and  the  German  Development  Bank  have 
12-61261
9
A/67/PV.42
begun  to  roll  out  the  South  Africa  Sport  for  Change 
programme. It showcases sport as a catalyst for change 
with great potential for youth development, using sport 
as a medium to create positive behaviour and attitudes 
and to reduce the factors conducive to the social ills that 
aff lict young people and society. Sport is an important 
tool  for  bringing  people  around  the  world  together  to 
share their talents, regardless of race. It has the power 
to  help  get  young  people  and  others  off  the  streets 
and  at  the  same  time  to  promote  health,  education, 
development and peace.
Sport  has  been  recognized  as  a  powerful  tool 
through  its  contributions  to  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Secretary-
General has said that sport has a crucial role to play in 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  improve  the  lives 
of  people  around  the  world;  it  builds  bridges  between 
individuals  and  across  communities,  providing  fertile 
ground for sowing the seeds of development and peace. 
In  South  Africa,  sport  has  played  a  crucial  role  in  the 
demise  of  the  apartheid  system  and  the  creation  of  a 
new society since 1994.
In  conclusion,  South  Africa  supports  the  adoption 
of  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to 
promote  education,  health,  development  and  peace” 
(A/67/L.26) by the General Assembly.
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  It  is  indeed  an  honour  for 
me  speak  on  agenda  item  12,  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development”.  Jamaica  has,  in  spite  of  its  relatively 
small  size,  enjoyed  a  long  tradition  of  excellence  in 
sport,  which  predates  the  1948  Olympics  and  the 
Helsinki  Games  of  1952,  when  our  sprint  relay  team 
struck gold. The magnificent world-class performance 
of our athletes in 2008, which was repeated at this year’s 
London  Olympics,  truly  showed  the  power  of  sport 
to  unite  the  world  and  its  potential  for  development. 
That  significant  achievement  by  our  athletes  takes 
on  added  significance  as  this  year  marks  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of our independence. It is with that history 
and tradition in mind that Jamaica decided to become, 
once  again,  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  on  this 
agenda  item  (A/67/L.26).  In  that  connection  we  have 
also become a member of the Group of Friends of Sport 
for Development and Peace.
In spite of the limited resources in our region and 
the  relatively  small  population  groups,  there  is  an 
urgent need to develop strategies throughout the region 
to maximize resources and ensure the greatest positive 
impact  among  the  population.  Notwithstanding  those 
circumstances,  it  is  critical  that  sport  become  the 
focal  point  around  which  to  stage  our  development 
programme. It has tremendous potential for all members 
of  society,  in  particular  the  youth.  It  is  also  important 
to  ensure  that  Government  policies  are  aligned  with 
that objective and that the potential for the development 
benefits of sports is duly recognized.
Sport has transcended the borders of the race tracks 
and  indoor  facilities.  The  reality  is  that  it  involves 
issues  of  health,  tourism,  social  development  and 
economic advancement, which are of common interest 
to us all. More importantly, sport provides a vehicle and 
a strategy, not only for Government but also for various 
other  sectors  of  society,  to  systematically  reduce 
poverty, build peace, reduce conf lict and create wealth 
within communities.
to 
Much  has  been  done 
institutionalize  and 
formalize  successful  initiatives  in  Jamaica  over  the 
years. To that end, sport for development has become a 
national priority, as demonstrated by the urgency being 
given  by  the  Government  in  finalizing  the  revised 
National Sports Policy. The National Sports Policy for 
Jamaica  highlights  the  critical  importance  of  sport  in 
the  achievement  of  Jamaica’s  development  goals  and 
national growth. Sport is viewed by the Government of 
Jamaica  as  a  cross-cutting  vehicle  that  will  contribute 
to  achieving  national  development  and  a  healthy 
society.  Sport  is  also  considered  a  sustainable  process 
that  builds  leadership  and  supports  healthy  behaviour 
and  lifestyles  as  well  as  peaceful  coexistence  among 
communities.
Women  continue,  of  course,  to  excel  in  most 
sporting  events.  They  are  integrally  involved  in  the 
decision-making  process  relating  to  sport  policies 
and  are  included  in  a  number  of  executive  boards  and 
coaching staffs. At the community level, sport has been 
used  as  a  major  vehicle  for  mobilizing  residents  for 
various  community  development  programmes,  and,  in 
Jamaica, sport has become an ingrained component of 
our daily lives.
Sport  is  included  in  the  school  curriculums  in 
Jamaica, from the elementary level to the tertiary level. 
The University of the West Indies offers post-graduate 
programmes in sports medicine and other critical areas. 
The University of Technology now hosts the Caribbean 
School of Sport Sciences, which offers three bachelor of 
science electives, namely, coaching, sports management 
10 
12-61261
and athletic training, which focuses on physiology and 
physiotherapy. Our specialist institution, the G. C. Foster 
College  of  Physical  Education  and  Sport,  maintains  a 
high  standard  of  excellence  in  a  wide-ranging  set  of 
programmes  that  seek  to  address  the  gaps  that  now 
exist in sport-related professions.
It  is  clear  that  in  order  to  maximize  the  potential 
of  sport  being  used  as  a  means  to  promote  education, 
health,  development  and  peace,  there  is  a  need  to 
redesign  the  image  and  understanding  of  the  term 
“sport”. It must address the means by which initiatives 
can  be  implemented  through  the  provision  of  the 
necessary  resources.  That  may  be  achieved  through 
public-  and  private-sector  partnership.  In  realization 
of  the  important  role  that  sport  plays  in  society,  it  is 
also imperative that its integrity be preserved. It is for 
that reason that the Jamaica Anti-Doping Commission 
promotes  the  development  and  maintenance  of  a 
dope-free environment. Finally, Jamaica fully endorses 
the  recommendation  to  strengthen  the  work  in  each 
State in the area of sport as a vehicle for the promotion 
of  education,  development  and  peace  and  pledges  to 
work collaboratively with other countries in that regard.
Mr. Berger (Germany): The report of the Secretary-
General  entitled  “Sport  for  development  and  peace: 
mainstreaming  a  versatile 
instrument”  (A/67/282) 
underlines  once  again  the  important  role  that  sport 
can  play  in  the  different  areas  of  development  and 
peacebuilding.
Sport activities bring together people from different 
regional,  cultural  and  religious  backgrounds  and  help 
to  overcome  cultural,  linguistic  and  other  barriers. 
Sport  plays  a  valuable  role  in  contributing  to  social 
cohesiveness and rapprochement between cultures and 
peoples. Moreover, sport programmes can foster social 
inclusion  and  help  overcome  discrimination  against, 
and  the  marginalization  of,  women  and  disabled 
persons. Sport can also help to promote the achievement 
of the internationally agreed development goals. Sport 
programmes can support social integration, especially 
after  periods  of  conf lict,  and  such  programmes  can, 
for  example,  play  a  major  role  in  the  rehabilitation 
and  reintegration  of  child  soldiers  and  other  youths, 
an  aspect  that  Germany  follows  closely  as  Chair  of 
the  Security  Council Working  Group  on  Children  and 
Armed Conf lict.
We  are  grateful  to  the  Special  Adviser  to  the 
Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
A/67/PV.42
Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  for  bringing  together 
and  coordinating  the  various  actors  in  the  field  of 
sport  and  development  —  multilateral  actors  such  as 
the  United  Nations  entities,  national  Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil  society 
organizations.  The  Office  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace  plays  a  key  role  in  connecting  people, 
promoting peace and mutual understanding and driving 
the Millennium Development Goals through sport.
As  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Friends  for  Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace,  we  clearly  see  the  added 
value of the Office’s work. That is the reason why the 
German  Government  decided  to  support  the  Special 
Adviser  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace.  As  we  know,  the  Special 
Adviser covers sport in all its dimensions, from major 
world sport events, such as the Olympic and Paralympic 
games  in  London,  to  the  grass-roots  activities  and 
non-governmental  organizations  in  many  developing 
countries. The Youth Leadership Camps developed by 
the  Office  are,  in  our  view,  a  showcase  of  what  such 
cooperation between the various actors in achieving the 
common goal can look like, and it shows how important 
the work of the Office and the Special Adviser is for the 
development of programmes as well as the coordination 
of the various actors. Germany is proud to be one of the 
hosts of the Youth Leadership Camps in 2012.
We  have  also  been,  as  I  said,  one  of  the  main 
supporters  of  the  Office’s  activities  since  2008,  and 
our  clear  intention  is  to  continue  with  our  support  in 
the  future.  However,  the  predictability  of  funding  is 
of  utmost  importance,  and  we  would  therefore  like  to 
take  the  opportunity  of  this  debate  to  express  our full 
support  for  Mr.  Lemke’s  approach,  which  he  outlined 
in  the  main  lines  of  action  in  the  report,  in  order  to 
broaden  financial  support  for  his  Office.  I  think  it  is 
very  important  that  many  Member  States,  as  we  have 
seen in today’s debate, are very much interested in this 
topic  and  support  sport.  They  also  support  the  Office 
and the work of the Special Adviser.
In  May  2013  in  Berlin  Germany  will  organize  a 
World Sport Minister Conference, where we would like 
to welcome all Member States. I would like to encourage 
Member  States  that  share  the  same  objectives  as  the 
Office for Sport for Development and Peace to consider 
becoming  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Friends.  I  am 
convinced that a large and active group can contribute 
significantly to achieving our common goals.
12-61261
11
A/67/PV.42
Let  me  finish  by  thanking  the  co-facilitators, 
Monaco and Tunisia, for preparing the draft resolution 
we will adopt today.
sport 
supports  promoting 
Mrs.  Davidovich  (Israel):  The  State  of  Israel 
strongly 
to  advance 
education,  health,  development  and  peace,  and  we  are 
a  proud  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  to  be  adopted 
today.  My  delegation  appreciates  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on this important subject (A/67/282) 
and  welcomes  the  new  Action  Plan  on  Sport  for 
Development and Peace proposed therein.
Throughout  history,  sport  has  played  a  vital  role 
in  the  lives  of  people  around  the  world.  Sport  acts 
as  a  platform  for  engaging  youth,  women  and  people 
with  disabilities,  promoting  dialogue  and  coexistence 
and  fostering  development.  Sport  promotes  universal 
values such as honour, teamwork and tolerance. It helps 
us  transcend  our  differences  and  reminds  us  of  our 
commonalities.
Sport  has  also  been  a  powerful  tool  for  progress 
and  development.  It  has  played  an  important  role 
in  advancing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
including  the  promotion  of  gender  equality.  Sport 
fosters  empowerment  and  self-esteem;  it  provides 
women  with  a  chance  to  come  together,  learn  new 
skills and develop leadership abilities. Israel welcomes 
the  Thematic  Working  Group  on  Sport  and  Gender, 
of  the  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  International 
Working  Group,  which  highlights  best  practices  and 
contributes  to  advancing  gender  equality  around  the 
world.
Israel  deeply  recognizes  the  value  of  sport.  In 
2009,  the  Israeli  Government  created  the  Culture 
and  Sports  Ministry  in  order  to  better  harness  the 
benefits  of  sport  for  Israeli  society.  In  2011,  Israel, 
together with the Government of Germany, hosted the 
first  international  conference  on  “Sport  as  a  mediator 
between  Cultures”,  with  the  support  of  UNESCO  and 
other organizing partners, including Football for Peace 
International.  The  United  Nations  Special  Adviser 
on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried 
Lemke,  attended,  as  did  ministers,  academics,  and 
representatives  of  civil  society  and  the  private  sector 
from around the world. It was an important platform to 
develop  an  understanding  of  how  sport  can  contribute 
to  education,  social  development,  peacebuilding  and 
cross-culture  reconciliation.  It  was  also  an  important 
opportunity  to  bring  and  devise  strategies  for  using 
sport in those fields.
The Sports Authority within the Culture and Sports 
Ministry operates multicultural sport activities in line 
with  the  Ministry’s  vision,  which  regards  sport  as  an 
important cultural stimulus that minimizes differences 
while stressing commonalties. In that spirit, the Office 
regularly  organizes  activities 
together 
Israelis,  Palestinians  and  Jordanians.  Two  successful 
programmes  are  Football  4  Peace  and  Ultimate  Peace 
Frisbee.
that  bring 
Israeli  civil  society  also  prides  itself  on  its  sport-
for-peace accomplishments. The Twinned Peace Sport 
Schools programme at the Peres Center for Peace in Tel 
Aviv  is  the  longest-running  coexistence  sport  project 
in the Middle East. Every year, it hosts sports leagues 
for  nearly  2,000  children  from  twinned  communities 
across  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  foster 
coexistence and mutual respect.
The Israeli non-governmental organization Mifalot 
oversees more than 300 programmes that use football to 
foster peace and tolerance across our region. Mifalot’s 
annual  sporting  event  brings  together  20,000  youths 
from  Israel,  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  Jordan  as 
part of an effort to change perceptions and stereotypes. 
On  the  heels  of  its  remarkable  success  in  Israel,  the 
programme has expanded to Cameroon, Rwanda, Haiti 
and many other countries.
In Israel, Mifalot also promotes gender equality in 
minority communities. For example, in Bedouin villages 
in  southern  Israel,  initiatives  aimed  at  empowering 
young girls have enjoyed significant success. Maryam 
Abu-Ghanem, a resident of Tel Sheva, became Israel’s 
first female Bedouin sports coach this year.
Finally,  on  behalf  of  my  country,  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  Special  Adviser  on  Sport,  Mr.  Wilfried 
Lemke,  for  his  continuing  dedication  to  the  noble 
ideal  of  using  sport  to  promote  tolerance  and  mutual 
understanding. Israel continues to value the importance 
of sport in promoting awareness, mutual understanding 
and a culture of peace. As our President, Shimon Peres, 
once  said,  “You  do  not  wait  for  peace  in  order  to  use 
sport for peace; you can use sport to achieve peace”.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 12.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.26,  entitled  “Sports  as  a  means  to 
promote education, health, development and peace”.
12 
12-61261
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following  countries  have  also  become  sponsors  of  the 
draft resolution: Andorra, Argentina, the Bahamas, the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Canada,  China,  Croatia, 
Egypt,  Eritrea,  Granada,  Guinea,  Haiti,  Jamaica, 
Japan, Lithuania, Madagascar, Mongolia, Montenegro, 
Norway, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic 
of  Moldova,  the  Russian  Federation,  Samoa,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  South  Africa,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt A/67/L.26?
Draft resolution A/67/L.26 was adopted (resolution 
67/17).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 12?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of 
and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
(a) Notes by the Secretary-General (A/67/82 
and A/67/270)
(b) Draft resolution (A/67/L.25)
Agenda items 113 and 119
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
(a) Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/201 
and A/67/257)
(b) Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/373)
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
representative of Mongolia to introduce draft resolution 
A/67/L.25.
Mr. Badral (Mongolia): It is my honour to present 
to  the  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  A/67/L.25, 
A/67/PV.42
entitled  “Education  for  Democracy”.  The  list  of 
sponsors is long, but let me quickly read out all of them. 
Their names are worthy of being announced loudly and 
proudly,  as  if  we  were  still  at  the  unforgettable  and 
grandiose  opening  of  the  outstanding  Olympic  Games 
in  Beijing  and  London.  They  are  Belgium,  Bulgaria, 
Canada,  Chile,  Costa  Rica,  the  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland,  Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary,  India,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Mexico, 
Moldova,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
the  Netherlands, 
Nigeria,  Norway,  Peru, 
the  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Serbia, 
Slovenia,  Sweden,  Thailand,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  the 
United States of America, Uruguay and, of course, my 
own country, Mongolia.
its  sincere 
thanks 
Mongolia  extends 
to  all 
the  sponsors  for  their  unwavering  support.  I  am 
also  grateful  to  China,  Cuba,  Egypt,  Iran,  South 
Africa,  Venezuela  and  other  Member  States  for  their 
strong  interest,  active  participation  and  substantive 
contributions to disseminating and improving the draft 
during consultations.
As the former Chair of the International Conference 
of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  and  as  the  current 
Chair  of  the  Community  of  Democracies,  Mongolia 
has  made  education  for  democracy  the  top  priority 
during  its  chairmanship.  In  line  with  that  priority, 
we  have  submitted  the  draft  resolution  on  the  subject 
and  conducted  numerous  informal  consultations  with 
Member Governments in order to seek their views and 
improve  the  text  so  that  it  could  become  a  consensus 
resolution.  All  delegations  that  took  part  in  those 
consultations expressed their support.
The text before us is not ideal, and I know that the 
sponsors and other participating countries are not fully 
satisfied. Nevertheless, a f lexible reading of the current 
text should reveal that all concepts and interpretations 
with respect to education for democracy that Members 
wanted  to  include  from  their  perspective  are  present, 
although  some  explicit  language  may  be  missing.  We 
therefore  consider  that  the  text  is  balanced  and  meets 
the basic needs of all countries. We have substantially 
scaled  back  our  own  initial  ambitions  in  order  to 
accommodate the interests of all.
The importance of the subject under consideration 
is well known. As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has 
noted, developing a culture of democracy and fostering 
global  citizenship  are  becoming  part  of  the  most 
12-61261
13
A/67/PV.42
pressing priorities of the international community. All 
that  embraces  education  for  democracy.  The  sponsors 
strongly  believe  that  the  main  outcome  of  the  draft 
resolution  will  be  to  launch  a  focused  discussion  on 
how to help educate our people in the culture of peace 
and democracy and a culture of tolerance of and respect 
for  different  civilizations  and  religions,  as  well  as  in 
upholding  the  values  of  freedom  and  human  rights. 
The  draft  resolution,  once  adopted,  will  contribute  to 
fostering global citizenship, with all Members equally 
playing a proactive role and globally sharing their own 
national  best  practices  in  education  for  democracy 
through a common platform.
On  behalf  of  the  sponsors,  I  ask  the  General 
Assembly to adopt the draft resolution without a vote.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Beviglia  Zampetti  (European  Union):  I  will 
address the follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit, and then I will add a few words on the note by 
the Secretary-General in A/67/373.
With  regard  to  the  Millennium  Summit  outcome, 
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  acceding 
country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and Bosnia and Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of 
Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, align themselves with 
this declaration.
We  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report 
entitled “Accelerating progress towards the Millennium 
Development Goals: options for sustained and inclusive 
growth  and  issues  for  advancing  the  United  Nations 
development  agenda  beyond  2015”  (A/67/257)  and  are 
grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  exchange  views  on  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
We believe that our first priority must be to increase 
the impact of our development cooperation in order to 
make as much progress as possible on the MDGs before 
2015.  There  has  been  encouraging  progress.  However, 
it has varied significantly both among MDG targets and 
among regions. With developing countries in the lead, 
we must continue our common efforts towards that end, 
focusing on the MDGs that are the most off-track and 
the most vulnerable.
The  MDGs  are  central 
to  EU  development 
efforts.  The  €1  billion  EU  MDG  Initiative,  designed 
specifically  to  increase  impact  and  boost  tangible 
progress  on  the  most  off-track  MDG  targets,  has  now 
been  implemented.  The  new  EU  Agenda  for  Change 
development  framework  aims  to  ensure  the  most 
effective  and  long-lasting  impact  by  concentrating 
our  actions  where  they  bring  added  value  and  can  be 
a catalyst for more sustainable and inclusive growth in 
developing countries.
Secondly,  looking  beyond  2015,  we  recognize  the 
power that the MDG framework has had in catalysing 
worldwide action on development. We should build on 
that  achievement.  A  solid  assessment  of  the  current 
MDGs needs to be undertaken in view of the September 
2013 special event to follow up on efforts made towards 
achieving the MDGs.
that 
We  believe 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and  the  set  of  related  United  Nations 
documents,  as  well  as  the  outcome  document  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  provide  a  comprehensive 
and  ambitious  foundation  for  the  post-2015  period. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  could  build  on 
and improve the MDG framework, modernizing it and 
strengthening weak or missing issues.
into 
In  that  context,  without  diverting  efforts  from  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  we  would  like  to  stress 
the  importance  of  developing  SDGs  —  sustainable 
development  goals  —  that  are  coherent  with  and 
integrated 
the  United  Nations  development 
agenda  beyond  2015,  with  a  view  to  an  overarching 
framework  for  the  post-2015  period.  They  need  to 
address  the  key  global  challenges  in  the  years  to 
come  and  fully  encompass  the  three  dimensions  of 
sustainable development in a balanced and synergistic 
way.  They  should  be  linked  to  possible  concrete 
targets  and  indicators  and  be  universal  and  applicable 
to  all  countries,  while  allowing  for  differentiated 
approaches  among  countries.  We  also  consider  it 
very  important  that  the  upcoming  process  to  design 
the  sustainable  development  goals  be  inclusive,  with 
the  full  contribution  and  engagement  of  all  relevant 
stakeholders.
Improving the current framework while keeping it 
simple  will  be  our  common  challenge.  I  think  that  we 
can  all  agree  that  goals  are  useful  only  if  limited  in 
number, action-oriented and easily communicable, and 
14 
12-61261
if they can operationalize agreed principles and shared 
objectives on the ground.
Let  me  close  my  statement  by  saying  that  the 
European  Union  and  its  member  States  look  forward 
to continued and constructive discussions and dialogue 
with all partners in the run-up to September 2013.
I would also like to say a few words with regard to the 
note by the Secretary-General in A/67/373. The EU and 
its member States thank the Secretary-General for the 
note, which transmits the report of the Director-General 
of  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  on  options 
for  strengthening  and  facilitating  multisectoral  action 
for  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases through effective partnership.
We  believe  that,  before  being  considered  in  the 
General Assembly plenary in New York, those options 
should  be  discussed  further  in  Geneva  in  the  context 
of  the  development  of  the  WHO  global  action  plan  on 
non-communicable diseases. In addition, that is where 
the relevant public-health expertise resides.
report  presents 
The  Director-General’s 
six 
necessary  functions  relating  to  collaboration  and 
partnerships. However, rather than an analysis of them, 
we are presented with a number of questions that have 
a  wider  scope.  Furthermore,  those  functions  seem  to 
be  based  on  a  vertical,  disease-  or  treatment-based 
approach.  We  think  that  more  emphasis  should  be  put 
on  health  determinants  and  preventive  public  policy 
measures,  which  can  be  developed  in  consultation 
with  targeted  stakeholders,  including  civil  society. 
We also wish to stress the need for a broader scope of 
research  for  public  health  interventions,  policies  and 
capacities — not only research and development efforts 
for specific products.
However,  we  appreciate  that  the  report  addresses 
the necessity of coordination. We could not agree more. 
We  would  like  to  see  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases  taking  a  more  strategic, 
systemic  and  global  approach,  driven  by  policies 
across all relevant sectors, under WHO leadership and 
guidance  and  as  articulated  through  the  global  action 
plan  to  be  adopted  at  the  World  Health  Assembly  in 
May next year.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  role  of 
the  WHO  as  the  directing  and  coordinating  authority 
for  health  within  the  United  Nations  system.  The 
challenges  posed  by  non-communicable  diseases  are 
A/67/PV.42
complex and multifaceted. The key is to strengthen both 
international  and  multi-stakeholder  collaboration  and 
to ensure a coordinated, system-wide response through 
a  health-in-all-policies  approach.  We  believe  that 
that  response  should  be  delivered  within  the  existing 
resources,  and  we  consider  that  WHO  is  uniquely 
placed  to  provide  leadership  on  that  critical  challenge 
for global health and development.
Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  On  behalf  of  the 
14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM), I wish to deliver this statement on agenda 
item 113, “Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit”.
At the outset, the Caribbean Community expresses 
its  appreciation  for  the  note  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/67/373),  which  transmitted,  in  a  timely  manner, 
the  report  of  the  Director-General  of  the  World 
Health  Organization  on  options  for  strengthening  and 
facilitating  multisectoral  action  for  the  prevention 
and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases  through 
effective partnership. While the Caribbean Community 
notes that the report does not emphasize the importance 
of  regional  coordination  mechanisms  and  the  efforts 
to  address  the  fundamental  challenges  posed  by 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), we are of the view 
that the report is a good analysis of the experiences of 
using multisectoral mechanisms to address other health 
issues.
The  Caribbean  Community  strongly  agrees  that 
coordinating  mechanisms  are  important  at  all  levels 
for  the  effective  implementation  of  national,  regional 
and  global  multisectoral  plans  to  address  NCDs.  In 
our  subregion,  for  example,  thus  far  two  States  have 
established  national  commissions  and  another  has 
developed a partners forum with a view to addressing 
the incidence and prevalence of those diseases.
CARICOM also avails itself of this opportunity to 
commend  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  on 
the creation of the Global Non-communicable Disease 
Network,  NCDnet.  It  recognizes  that  that  mechanism 
is  an  excellent  starting  point  for  bringing  together 
actors  to  raise  awareness  about,  begin  action  towards 
and assist the implementation of the Global Action Plan 
for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-Communicable 
Diseases.
With  particular  reference  to  the  five  options  put 
forward  in  the  report,  the  Caribbean  Community 
is  especially  supportive  of  option  3,  which  relates 
12-61261
15
A/67/PV.42
to  forming  a  coordinated  network.  We  believe  that 
that  option  is  both  the  most  appropriate  and  the  most 
feasible  in  the  short  term,  given  the  scope,  scale  and, 
most  important,  the  urgency  of  the  rising  prevalence 
of NCDs. The option presents many features necessary 
for  a  successful  partnership  to  promote  multisectoral 
approaches to addressing the issue of NCDs.
In  that  regard,  CARICOM  supports  the  key  role 
that  the  WHO  could  and  should  play  in  such  a  global 
partnership as the technical lead on health. We also hold 
the  view,  however,  that  the  technology  of  partnership 
requires  resources,  innovation  and  creativity  in  order 
to  facilitate  its  effective  functioning.  Therefore,  both 
resources  and  technical  assistance  would  be  required 
to  ensure  the  effectiveness  and  desired  impact  of 
any  partnership.  Should  adequate  resources  become 
available  to  support  the  required  partnership,  the 
Caribbean Community could also consider a centralized 
and formalized partnership, as presented as option 5 in 
the aforementioned report.
The  Caribbean  Community  also  wishes 
to 
commend  the  WHO  for  the  timely  development  of 
the  second  global  action  plan,  for  2013  to  2020,  as  it 
will  serve,  along  with  the  Political  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
(resolution 66/2, annex), as the principal multisectoral 
compass  for  the  global  coordinating  mechanism.  We 
also  applaud  the  WHO  for  identifying  and  promoting 
the  “25  by  25”  target —  to  reduce  non-communicable 
diseases by 25 per cent by 2025 — and for the extensive 
process  completed  to  develop  a  global  monitoring 
framework.  The  Caribbean  Community  looks  forward 
to  the  presentation  of  the  elements  of  that  framework 
to the General Assembly in the not-too-distant future.
The  Caribbean  Community  agrees  that  there 
is  a  need  for  multisectoral  plans  and  policies,  to  be 
developed  and  implemented  at  the  national  level,  and 
for a partnership to assist in that regard. We also share 
the  view  that  they  should  be  tailored  in  keeping  with 
national  settings  as  well  as  with  political,  technical 
and operational needs. At the same time, those efforts 
are  to  be  complemented  by  a  global  partnership 
that  will  support  and  enhance  the  development  and 
implementation  of  such  policies  nationally,  regionally 
and globally.
The Caribbean Community also wishes to recall the 
General Assembly’s request, in the previously mentioned 
Political Declaration, for a report to be submitted at its 
sixty-eighth session, in preparation for a comprehensive 
review and assessment in 2014 of the progress achieved 
in  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases.  In  that  connection,  CARICOM  expresses  its 
preference to receive the report during the sixty-eighth 
session, at the end of December 2013, in order to ensure 
that  it  contains  the  most  current  information  and  that 
there is sufficient time for its consideration and so that 
it can contribute to preparations for the comprehensive 
review  of  the  progress  achieved  in  the  prevention  and 
control of NCDs.
We are aware that further discussions are required 
on this issue. CARICOM is therefore of the view that all 
Member States should have the opportunity to participate 
in  discussions  to  determine  the  scope  of,  and  further 
details related to, the partnership. Within this context, 
however,  should  there  be  overwhelming  support  for 
option  3,  the  Caribbean  Community  would  encourage 
international  solidarity  with  respect  to  obtaining  the 
initial  resources  necessary  for  the  commencement  of 
the  process  by  the  WHO,  in  collaboration  with  other 
relevant United Nations agencies.
As  we  conclude, 
the  Caribbean  Community 
urges  delegations  to  recall  that  60  per  cent  of  deaths 
worldwide  —  80  per  cent  of  which  are  in  developing 
countries  —  are  due  to  non-communicable  diseases. 
The percentage of deaths due to NCDs is also expected 
to increase in some parts of the world in the near future. 
NCDs  can  therefore  be  seen  as  a  critical  challenge  to 
development  and  to  health  in  general.  Consequently, 
the  Caribbean  Community  supports  the  inclusion  of 
NCDs  as  one  of  the  issues  to  be  discussed  in  relation 
to the post-2015 development agenda in the context of 
global health challenges.
Ms. Saban (United States of America): We realize 
that  there  are  a  number  of  important  items  being 
discussed  today.  Our  comments  will  pertain  only  to 
agenda  item  113  and  the  report  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  Director-General  on  non-communicable 
diseases,  transmitted  in  the  note  by  the  Secretary-
General (A/67/373).
strongly  believes 
The  United  States 
that 
multisectoral  action  is  critical  to  both  preventing 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  and  managing 
their  long-term  consequences.  The  United  States  is 
currently  implementing  its  first  multisectoral  national 
prevention  strategy.  The  National  Prevention  Council, 
16 
12-61261
led  by  our  Surgeon  General,  works  across  the  United 
States  Government  and  with  private  and  public 
partners  to  actively  engage  all  sectors  and  levels  of 
society  in  improving  the  health  and  well-being  of  our 
communities.
The  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases  and  associated  meetings  were  important 
opportunities  for  Member  States  to  consider  best 
practices  for  multisectoral  action  and  to  convene  and 
collaborate  with  civil  society  and  the  private  sector. 
Energy and momentum to follow through on the spirit 
of the Political Declaration of that meeting (resolution 
66/2, annex) and to deliver on its major outcomes have 
been  sustained  through  the  engagement  of  the  many 
stakeholders.
that 
The  Political  Declaration  requested 
the 
Secretary-General,  in  close  collaboration  with  the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  develop  options 
to  strengthen  and  facilitate  multisectoral  action.  The 
United  States  welcomes  the  report’s  exploration  of 
those  options,  appropriately  focused  on  national-level 
action  and  the  leadership  role  of  Governments  in 
partnerships  with  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and 
other stakeholders.
Country-level  implementation  of  evidence-based, 
cost-effective interventions will be central to reducing 
premature  deaths  from  NCDs  by  25  per  cent  by  2025, 
in concert with other voluntary global targets. To reach 
those targets, there is a need for greater dissemination 
among Member States of guidelines, best practices and 
lessons learned on practical, effective, sustainable and 
widely  applicable  approaches  to  multisectoral  action 
at the national level. At all levels, partnerships should 
serve  to  foster  an  environment  conducive  to  public 
health and to healthy choices.
The  United  States  fully  endorses  the  leadership 
role  of  the  WHO,  as  the  primary  specialized  United 
Nations  agency  on  health,  in  facilitating  coordinated 
action  among  United  Nations  agencies,  development 
banks and other regional or international organizations. 
The United States notes the various options for global 
collaboration to promote and accelerate country action. 
We  agree  with  the  report’s  statement  that  a  single, 
stand-alone  partnership  would  not  be  sufficient  to 
cover  the  scope  and  scale  of  NCDs.  Rather,  multiple 
innovative partnerships, collaborations and coordinated 
independent  efforts  are  needed  to  address  diverse 
A/67/PV.42
aspects  of  the  challenge  and  engage  the  landscape  of 
actors inside and outside the health sector. Additionally, 
f lexible options that allow for the evolution of the global 
response to NCDs should be pursued.
Along with the recently finalized global monitoring 
framework,  the  updated  WHO  Global  Action  Plan  on 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-Communicable 
Diseases 2013-2020, to be adopted at the World Health 
Assembly in May 2013, is expected to provide guidance 
on  key  activities  and  to  help  elaborate  how  the  global 
community  can  put  into  motion  the  multisectoral 
approaches highlighted by the Political Declaration. The 
WHO Action Plan will increase the impact and efficacy 
of  existing  global  partnerships,  alliances  and  results-
oriented collaborative arrangements. More information 
is needed on the proposal for an inter-agency task force 
on NCDs, which would report to the Economic and Social 
Council,  including  the  proposed  terms  of  reference, 
function, role and responsibilities, and associated costs. 
We would again like to stress our support for WHO as 
the overall lead on NCDs, and would like to understand 
how  the  work  of  that  inter-agency  group  would  be 
harmonized  under  the  auspices  of  WHO  leadership. 
Again, the United States is committed to multisectoral 
action as an integral part of the prevention and control 
of  non-communicable  diseases,  and  we  appreciate  the 
report of the Secretary-General.
Mr. Versegi (Australia): Australia is committed to 
advancing the work on all agenda items discussed here 
this  morning,  and  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his comprehensive reports and notes on those items. As 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  in  document  A/67/257 
clearly  emphasizes,  a  comprehensive  and  coherent 
development  effort  is  needed  if  we  are  make  further 
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) by 2015.
Australia understands that aid is an important part 
of that effort, but we also know that policies to promote 
open trade and market access for developing countries, 
investment  and  private-sector  growth,  as  well  as 
opportunities  for  the  sharing  of  ideas  and  experience 
through  South-South  and  triangular  cooperation,  also 
play  a  vital  role  in  helping  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
achieve sustainable growth.
As  a  co-chair  of  the  MDG  Advocacy  Group  and 
a  champion  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Education 
First  initiative,  Australia’s  Prime  Minister  is  seized 
of  the  importance  of  ensuring  continued  international 
12-61261
17
A/67/PV.42
attention to the achievement of the current set of goals. 
As  an  international  community,  we  cannot  afford  to 
take  our  eyes  off  that  unfinished  work  while  we  also 
give  attention  to  the  development  agenda  that  will 
follow.
As  we  said  during  the  debate  a  year  ago  (see 
A/66/PV.72), we must take the knowledge gained from 
the MDG successes in many countries and apply those 
lessons  to  support  the  countries  and  communities  that 
still  face  a  long  and  difficult  road  ahead  in  achieving 
the targets. Let us not lose sight of the fact that we have 
come a long way and made considerable progress at the 
global  level  on  several  of  the  MDGs,  but  let  us  learn 
from  that  progress  and  harness  the  knowledge  for  the 
benefit of all.
For  example,  important  gains  in  primary  school 
enrolments  and  improvements  in  the  enrolment  of 
girls  are  to  be  celebrated,  but  we  still  have  more  to 
do  to  improve  enrolments  and  focus  on  the  quality  of 
education to ensure that children are actually learning. 
We  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  Education  First 
initiative  for  putting  a  clear  focus  on  the  need  to  put 
every child into school and to ensure that they are able to 
complete their education with strong learning outcomes. 
We  must  now  focus  on  effectively  implementing  that 
initiative effectively.
Commitments on HIV prevention and treatment, as 
well as on malaria, have yielded impressive results. But 
as important as those gains are, we cannot afford to be 
complacent on the health MDGs.
As  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations 
Fund  for  Population  Activities  highlighted  during  his 
visit to Australia earlier this week, promoting women’s 
and girls’ rights and empowerment, including through 
access to family planning, remains central to achieving 
the MDGs.
As  we  prepare  to  mark  World  AIDS  Day,  we  are 
reminded of the need to do more to reach the targets of 
zero new infections, zero AIDS-related deaths and zero 
discrimination by 2015. And we need to keep working 
to  reduce  the  number  of  malaria  cases,  including  by 
addressing  the  emergence  of  drug-resistant  malaria 
in  the  Mekong  region.  That  is  why  Australia  recently 
convened  a  major  international  conference  on  malaria 
in Sydney.
The  MDGs  provide  the  international  community 
with  a  clear  and  vital  development  framework  for  the 
next  three  years.  We  urge  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  and 
international  organizations,  regional 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  to 
work  together  to  address  inequalities  and  inequities 
in  access  to  services  and  development  opportunities. 
We must do more to accelerate progress on the MDGs 
in  conf lict-affected  and  fragile  States,  and  we  must 
increase  and  sustain  a  focus  on  the  peacebuilding, 
security and development needs of those countries.
And  now,  in  the  development  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  we  must  do  more  to  recognize 
the needs of women, girls and persons with disabilities. 
We would highlight the important work of UN-Women 
in  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment, 
and the role of women in peace and security. We look 
forward  to  continuing  our  close  engagement  with 
UN-Women  over  the  coming  year,  including  as  a 
member of the Executive Board.
Australia  is  fully  committed  to  making  a  strong 
contribution  to  the  formulation  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda, but we will not deviate from our 
firm resolve to help accelerate efforts towards attaining 
the  current  MDGs  over  the  next  three  years.  We  look 
forward to the special event in 2013, which will be a key 
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  assess 
progress on the MDGs and to commit to strategies and 
actions that will help in the final push to 2015.
We appreciate the ideas provided by the Secretary-
General  on  the  way  forward  with  the  post-2015 
development agenda and we commend the steps already 
underway to ensure a strong consultative process with 
a  wide  range  of  stakeholders.  It  will  be  important  for 
the  process  towards  the  development  of  the  post-2015 
agenda to be clear and coherent, and we welcome steps 
to  ensure  that  the  relevant  processes  converge  onto  a 
common track.
Mrs.  Dunlop  (Brazil):  I  wish  to  thank  President 
Vuk  Jeremić  for  convening  this  joint  debate  on  the 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic  and  social  fields  and  to  the  Millennium 
Summit, as well as on United Nations reform. I would 
also like to thank the Secretary-General for submitting 
all  his  reports  and  notes,  which  provide  very  useful 
inputs for our debate.
The  hard-won  progress  achieved  in  some  of  the 
targets of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
18 
12-61261
is heartening, especially if we consider the difficulties 
created  by  the  financial  and  economic  crisis.  The 
decline  in  the  number  of  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty,  the  improvement  in  access  to  drinking  water 
and in conditions for those living in slums, along with 
the advances in gender equality and the empowerment 
of  women,  should  encourage  us  to  move  quickly  and 
more  decisively  towards  the  achievement  of  all  the 
MDGs  and  other  internationally  agreed  development 
goals in the final stretch to 2015.
As  a  Member  State  champion  of  the  Secretary-
General’s Global Education initiative, we believe that by 
raising education to the highest level on the international 
agenda we will be contributing to progress in virtually 
all  other  items  and  challenges  we  face  in  the  twenty-
first  century.  Universal  access  to  quality  education  is 
key if we are to overcome poverty and inequality.
The international community has the responsibility 
to  make  good  on  its  commitments.  Although  we 
recognize  the  efforts  made  by  some  donor  countries 
to  meet  their  official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
commitments, we note with concern that current overall 
ODA  levels  are  well  below  half  of  0.7  per  cent  of  the 
gross national income of developed countries.
We  must  take  concrete  steps  to  revamp  the 
development-oriented Doha Round of trade negotiations 
and  to  promote  the  transfer  of  technology  and  the 
sharing of good practices, knowledge and experiences to 
support national capacity-building, especially for those 
that  are  lagging  behind.  We  must  also  ensure  access 
to  affordable,  effective,  safe  and  quality  medicine, 
including through the full use of the f lexibilities of the 
World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade-Related 
Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (TRIPS),  as 
recognized  in  the  Doha  Declaration  on  the  TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health.
In  facing  the  dire  consequences  of  the  current 
crisis and struggling to make progress on our collective 
development  goals,  developing  countries  need  policy 
space  and  f lexibility  to  make  use  of  macroeconomic 
tools,  especially  countercyclical  fiscal  policies  and 
other stimulus measures. It is fundamental that we focus 
our  economic  recovery  efforts  on  the  promotion  of  a 
job-centred,  socially  inclusive  economic  model.  The 
United Nations system must give particular attention to 
supporting the Global Jobs Pact and to the creation and 
strengthening  of  social  protection  f loors,  as  called  for 
A/67/PV.42
in this year’s Ministerial Declaration of the Economic 
and Social Council.
Based on our national experience and as indicated 
in  report  A/67/257,  we  believe  that  universal  health 
systems  can  play  an  important  role  as  an  effective 
social  protection  policy  by  ensuring  access  to  health 
services  and  medicine  and  reducing  economic  and 
social inequalities.
Although  limited  in  scope,  the  MDG  framework 
represents  a  successful  experience 
in  mobilizing 
resources  and  focusing  the  international  community’s 
attention  on  a  number  of  key  areas  for  human 
development.  It  has  also  helped  to  strengthen  the 
relevant role of the United Nations as a priority partner 
in development cooperation.
The unequivocal message from the United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development is that we must 
incorporate and place the sustainability paradigm at the 
centre of our analysis when looking at the development 
agenda 
twenty-first  century.  Economic 
development, social inclusion and the rational use and 
conservation of natural resources have to be considered 
on  an  equal  footing  and  cannot  be  disassociated  from 
each other.
the 
for 
The  goals  to  be  considered  in  the  negotiations  for 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  must  build  on  and 
be improved and enriched by the current MDGs. They 
should  also  aim  at  consolidating  the  achievements 
made under the MDGs by broadening the scope of the 
implementation  to  integrate  the  three  pillars,  with  a 
view to fostering sustainable development.
An 
inclusive,  open  and 
transparent  Member 
State-driven  process  of  consultations  must  be  held  in 
order to define which goals will be included in the post-
2015 agenda, how progress will be measured and what 
the means of implementation will be. We are following 
with interest the initiatives of the Secretary-General to 
launch preparations for the process of defining the post-
2015  agenda,  especially  the  work  of  the  task  force led 
by the Department of Economic Affairs and the United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  and  the  Secretary-
General’s High-level Panel of Eminent Persons.
We  are  of  the  view  that  all  those  initiatives  must 
converge  in  the  intergovernmental  process,  so  as  to 
allow  for  the  adoption  of  a  legitimate  development 
agenda  that  embraces  different  views  and  priorities, 
but  represents  shared  expectations  and  common 
12-61261
19
A/67/PV.42
aspirations.  We  need  tools  that  provide  a  sense  of 
direction  to  our  common  efforts  while  preserving  the 
necessary  f lexibility  for  each  country  to  pursue  its 
own development path. Building on the success of the 
MDGs, we also believe that they can provide guidance 
to  all  relevant  actors  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations system.
With regard to non-communicable diseases (NCDs), 
as  projected  by 
the  World  Health  Organization, 
NCD-related  deaths  will  increase  by  17  per  cent  over 
the next decade. Three in five deaths in South-East Asia 
are caused by NCDs. An estimated 8 million people die 
of NCDs each year in the region, accounting for 22 per 
cent of global deaths caused by those diseases.
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  In  contributing  to  the 
join  debate,  the  delegation  of  Indonesia  wishes  to 
particularly  focus  on  agenda  item  113,  “Follow-up 
to  the  outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit”.  We  also 
thank the Secretary-General for the reports before us.
The  international  community  is  committed  to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
by  2015,  to  addressing  existing  obstacles,  gaps  and 
challenges,  and  to  taking  advantage  of  opportunities. 
Indonesia  is  fully  committed  to  meeting  all  its  MDG 
targets. Indonesia recognizes that a concerted national 
effort is critical to ensuring the attainment of the MDG 
targets at the national and global levels.
The MDGs framework, however, has been viewed as 
having certain constraints, including being too focused 
on  human  development  while  not  giving  adequate 
attention  to  the  need  to  generate  general  economic 
growth  and  development.  Today,  it  is  increasingly 
recognized  that  countries  that  have  not  experienced 
sustained  or  inclusive  growth  will  have  difficulties  in 
meeting  their  poverty  reduction  targets  and  the  other 
MDGs by 2015.
is  necessary 
It  is  in  this  context  that  resolution  65/10  stressed 
that the promotion of sustained, inclusive and equitable 
economic  growth 
for  accelerating 
progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs,  as  well  as 
promoting  sustainable  development.  Greater  emphasis 
on  growth  will  help  to  create  more  jobs  and  provide 
social  protection  aimed  at  protecting  and  empowering 
people and communities, the most vulnerable groups in 
particular.
The world will not stop in 2015, however. We must 
undertake further steps to advance the United Nations 
development  agenda  beyond  2015. 
Incorporating 
the  development  concept  of  sustained,  inclusive  and 
equitable  economic  growth  and  development  as  an 
integral  part  of  a  post-2015  development  framework 
could greatly contribute to achieving not only existing 
development goals, but also new goals that could be set 
post-2015.
Indonesia  is  grappling  with  the  double  threat  of 
communicable  and  non-communicable  diseases.  We 
have  given  priority  to  minimizing  the  common  risk 
factors:  tobacco  use,  alcohol  abuse,  an  unhealthy 
diet  and  physical  inactivity.  We  established  in  2006  a 
special unit in the Ministry of Health with the task of 
strengthening  the  legal  framework  and  implementing 
our  policy  on  NCDs.  Indonesia  also  is  committed 
to  implementing  the  2008-2013  Action  Plan  for  the 
Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases.
The  scale  and  virulence  of  non-communicable 
diseases  require  unprecedented  political  commitment 
at  the  highest  political  levels  to  address  that  global 
issue. That commitment must therefore be incorporated 
into the global agenda of the international community. 
The  convening  of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases  in  September  last  year 
and the adoption of the Political Declaration on NCDs 
(resolution  66/2,  annex)  highlighted  that  commitment. 
The  mobilization  of  resources  and  the  building  of  a 
genuine  global  partnership  with  civil  society,  private 
sectors, philanthropies and even inf luential individuals 
are therefore essential. We also call on the international 
community  to  include  progress  in  the  fight  against 
NCDs  as  a  component  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
Turning  to  women’s  issues,  Indonesia  commends 
the  efforts  that  UN-Women  has  made  in  Indonesia  to 
date. Indonesia would like to reiterate its commitment 
to  and  support  for  the  work  of  UN-Women,  including 
its  strategic  plan  2011-2013.  We  urge  UN-Women  to 
continue  providing  appropriate  and  strategic  support 
to middle-income countries, which, despite their recent 
economic  achievements,  still  face  challenges  in  the 
area of gender equality and women’s empowerment.
As  a  member  of  the  Executive  Board  of  UN-
Women, Indonesia will continue its core contributions. 
At  the  same  time,  efforts  to  identify  a  sustainable 
predictable  and  innovative  financing  path  for  the 
20 
12-61261
entity  are  vital  for  the  long  term.  We  look  forward  to 
the result of the UN-Women’s comprehensive resource 
mobilization strategy to deepen and broaden the donor 
base.  We  urge  UN-Women  to  continue  to  improve  its 
role and contribution at the country level by developing 
its tool for the comprehensive assessment of the overall 
capacity of United Nations country teams.
initiative  which 
regional  architecture 
Indonesia  appreciates  and  supports  UN-Women’s 
new 
is  a 
ref lection of the entity’s efforts aimed at carrying out its 
mandates and at making further progress in achieving 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment.  We  are 
of  the  view  that  any  proposal  on  regional  architecture 
should include an impact assessment to help strengthen 
operational activities at the regional and country levels.
Finally, Indonesia emphasizes the importance of a 
strong oversight and monitoring mechanism to sustain 
the  coordination  of  and  normative  and  operational 
linkages  among  all  levels  in  order  to  strengthen  unity 
within UN-Women.
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  informative  report  on  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals and recommendations 
for advancing the United Nations development agenda 
beyond 2015 (A/67/257).
The  report  stresses  support  for  gradual  and 
comprehensive economic growth and job creation. The 
experience of recent years shows that the consequences 
of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  can  be 
overcome  at  the  lowest  cost  by  those  countries  that 
implement  development  strategies  aimed  at  ensuring 
social  equality,  full  and  productive  employment,  and 
dignified  work  for  all.  Unemployment,  as  is  rightly 
pointed  out  by  the  Secretary-General,  often  becomes 
a key factor in political instability and armed conf lict. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  task  of  job  creation  and 
ensuring  decent  work  environments  should  be  one  of 
the central elements of the global social and economic 
agenda for post-2015.
Russia  has  significant  practical  experience  in 
developing  social  and  employment  institutions.  Much 
has been done in such areas as improving labour laws, 
regulating the labour market, reforming pension systems, 
and  professional  training  and  retraining,  particularly 
for vulnerable population groups. We are ready to share 
our best practices with the international community, as 
they have clearly proven their effectiveness. On 11 and 
A/67/PV.42
12  December,  upon  the  initiative  of  President  Putin, 
an  international  high-level  conference  on  the  issue  of 
decent work will be held in Moscow. We are convinced 
that this important event will give a powerful impulse 
to  coordinating  multilateral  efforts 
implement 
the  International  Labour  Organization’s  concepts  of 
decent  work  and  sustainable  development  based  on 
wide-ranging and equitable economic growth.
to 
to 
importance 
Russia  ascribes  particular 
the 
global  efforts  to  combat  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs). A key role in advancing international dialogue 
in  that  area  was  played  by  the  first  global  ministerial 
conference on healthy lifestyles and non-communicable 
disease control held in Moscow, the High-level Meeting 
of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control 
of  Non-communicable  Diseases,  and 
the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  Global  Strategy  for  the 
Prevention  and  Control  of  NCDs.  We  hope  that  there 
will be an agreement within WHO this year on common 
obligations  on  non-communicable  diseases  and  that  a 
new plan of action in that area will be drawn up for the 
2014-2020 period.
Russia  continues  to  step  up  its  participation 
in  global  health.  Our  contribution  to  the  WHO 
non-communicable  diseases  project  for  2012-2013 
exceeds  $7  million.  We  plan  to  contribute  more 
than  $36  million  to  programmes  to  help  developing 
countries  to  combat  non-communicable  diseases.  Our 
future  plans  include  the  opening  in  our  country  of  a 
local WHO office on non-communicable diseases. We 
believe  that  the  Russian  national  system  being  set  up 
to  monitor  those  diseases  and  related  risk  factors  will 
in  time  become  part  of  the  global  information  system 
under WHO auspices.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General 
to  pay  consistent  attention  to  the  issue  of  reforming 
the  management  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations 
in  order  to  increase  their  effectiveness.  At  the  same 
time,  we  note  that  reform  is  not  an  end  in  itself.  Its 
implementation  should  be  based  on  close  consultation 
with Member States and meet their interests and those 
of the United Nations as a universal Organization.
We  are  concerned  to  note  the  conclusions  of 
the  Board  of  Auditors  that  a  number  of  substantive 
management  reforms  currently  being  implemented 
suffer  from  major  shortcomings.  I  would  refer  to  the 
introduction of the enterprise resource planning project 
(Umoja),  the  transition  to  the  International  Public 
12-61261
21
A/67/PV.42
Sector  Accounting  Standards,  the  global  field  support 
strategy  and  human  resource  reform.  All  of  those 
projects  suffer  from  the  absence  of  a  well-designed, 
long-term strategy, a vision of the final outcome and a 
deficit of any internal oversight.
inequity  remain  present  within  its  membership  and 
voting patterns. Yet we have to understand that global 
governance  goes  beyond  the  United  Nations  to  other 
institutions  and  agencies,  including  the  World  Trade 
Organization and the Bretton Woods institutions.
As  we  know,  the  Secretariat  is  preparing  a  series 
of  other  proposals  for  significant  internal  reforms. 
We  are  ready  to  consider  proposals  that  we  receive, 
in  particular  those  that  fully  take  into  account  the 
views and priorities of Member States on management 
processes at the United Nations, as well as the need not 
to allow any interruption in its effective work.
Mr. Waheed (Maldives): The Republic of Maldives 
gives sincere thanks for the work of the Secretariat and 
to the Secretary-General for his reports on the follow-
up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit (A/67/257) 
and on strengthening the institutional arrangements for 
support  of  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women (A/67/201).
Maldives believes that the United Nations holds an 
unquestionable  and  unique  position  in  the  multilateral 
system. There is no doubt that the world has in recent 
years  entered  a  new  era,  with  new  challenges  facing 
the  global  community.  Economic  instability,  climate 
change,  food  and  nutrition  security  are  all  issues  that 
have gained a new-found prominence in today’s world.
In  the  light  of  our  growing  interdependence,  a 
collective and holistic approach is required and, whether 
the solution is political or socioeconomic, isolationism 
is  no  longer  an  option.  Finding  multilateral  solutions 
to  the  aforementioned  emerging  challenges  lies  at  the 
heart  of  global  governance.  The  multilateral  system 
should  be  inclusive,  transparent  and  effective.  It  must 
have  the  capacity  to  respond  and  remain  relevant  and 
responsive to emerging challenges.
Maldives  believes  that  governance  institutions 
should  tackle  global  economic  imbalances,  promote 
sustained,  inclusive  and  equitable  growth,  advance 
multilateral 
trade  agreements,  enhance  food  and 
energy security, provide social protection for the poor 
and the vulnerable, and strengthen mechanisms aimed 
at  reducing  inequalities.  Effective  global  governance 
is  essential  for  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
and 
implementation of the post-2015 development agenda.
formulation 
and 
the 
Maldives  notes  with  concern  the  infrastructure 
of  global  governance.  Both  decentralization  and 
that, 
in  addition 
My  delegation  believes 
to 
regional  groups,  a  particular  emphasis  needs  to  be 
given  to  non-State  actors  that  have  been  ever-present 
in  development  and  policy  dialogues.  The  global 
governance  system  should  be  more  capable  of  dealing 
with  interconnected  socioeconomic  challenges,  more 
coherent and coordinated, and supported by institutions 
that are representative, inclusive and effective.
In view of the principle of common but differentiated 
treatment,  Maldives  believes  that  the  multilateral 
framework  should  capture  and  respond  to  specific 
regional needs and demands, especially those of small 
vulnerable  States.  Smaller  and  poorer  countries  are 
often  the  most  affected  by  global  rules,  yet  we  have 
the  least  amount  of  say  in  their  design.  Regional 
arrangements can help to provide better representation 
for  smaller  and  least  developed  countries,  promoting 
greater ownership and engagement with global policy.
Maldives recognizes the universality of the United 
Nations  and  reaffirms  its  support  and  commitment  to 
the ongoing efforts to strengthen the Assembly. In this 
regard, Maldives notes with satisfaction the continuing 
interaction of the General Assembly with international, 
regional  and  subregional  forums,  including  groups 
dealing  with  global  matters,  to  achieve  and  promote 
broader consensus. It is our hope that these interactions 
will  ultimately  lead  to  identifying  and  addressing  the 
present deficiencies in global governance. It is our hope 
that the leadership of the United Nations shall be able 
to  bring  inclusive  and  effective  responses  to  matters 
of  global  concern.  It  is  through  strengthened  global 
governance that our visions for the future, including for 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  post-2015 
process, will be realized.
As  a  nation,  Maldives  has  had  much  success  in 
meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goal  targets, 
having eradicated extreme poverty, achieved universal 
primary education, reduced child mortality and fought 
deadly  diseases.  We  are  now  pioneering  aggressive 
campaigns  for  equity,  sustainability  and  development. 
It is with these existing frameworks that Maldives looks 
to  the  future  —  to  both  the  framing  and  the  eventual 
implementation of the sustainable development goals.
22 
12-61261
A/67/PV.42
As a member of the Executive Board of UN-Women 
for the upcoming term, Maldives looks forward to more 
efficient  gender  mainstreaming  across  United  Nations 
entities.  We  also  want  to  stress  the  importance  of 
addressing women’s underrepresentation in governance 
structures and political participation. Maldives believes 
that the Entity’s presence in the field and coordination 
with  Member  States  must  be  given  priority,  and  that 
capacity and operations in the field must be increased 
to meet the ever-prevalent demand.
Although  the  global  community  is  faced  with  an 
era of new challenges, the United Nations has cultivated 
a  global  atmosphere  for  enhanced  development, 
security  and  human  rights,  and  these  have  coalesced 
into tangible results for more of the world’s population 
than ever before. Democracy and good governance are 
spreading. Commitments to reducing conf lict, poverty, 
discrimination,  economic 
isolation  and  economic 
vulnerability  endure  in  the  psyche  of  the  larger 
community of nations.
Yet  the  strides  that  have  been  made  to  bring 
forward  the  development  situations  of  many  countries 
cannot be allowed to be reversed. Though we face one 
of  the  worst  financial  crises  of  our  time,  principles 
of  equitable  globalization,  with  economic  growth 
and  sustained 
legal  empowerment  for  vulnerable 
populations,  including  the  poor,  should  be  promoted 
while  ensuring  that  there  is  greater  coherence  in 
achieving different but interrelated goals. Gone are the 
days  when  we  could  consider  economic  development 
as separate from social development, and gone are the 
days when national policies could be developed outside 
of global prerogatives.
With  the  restructuring  of  our  global  governance 
systems  through  a  focus  on  sustained  and  equitable 
betterment,  we  shall  overcome  the  challenges  we  face 
today and those we will face in the future. Though the 
road  is  long,  this  is  a  journey  worth  making,  and  the 
principles  of  betterment  and  equity  will  be  fructified 
on the tree of our common destiny.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work  of  the 
Second  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its 
second plenary meeting, on 21 September, the General 
Assembly approved the recommendation of the General 
Committee that the Second Committee should complete 
its  work  by  Friday,  30  November.  However,  I  have 
been  informed  by  the  Chair  of  the  Second  Committee 
that  the  Committee  requests  an  extension  of  its  work 
to  Thursday,  13  December,  which  would  facilitate 
reaching  consensus  on  the  draft  resolutions  pending 
before the Committee. May I therefore take it that the 
General  Assembly  agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee until Thursday, 13 December?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
12-61261
23
