United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
38th plenary meeting
Thursday, 15 November 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.38
Ofﬁ cial Records
President:
Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 108
Notification by the Secretary-General under 
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the 
United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/300)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph 
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  with  the 
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General 
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters 
relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security that are being dealt with by the Security 
Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the  Council  has 
ceased to deal. 
In that connection, the General Assembly has before 
it a note by the Secretary-General issued as document 
A/67/300. May I take it that the Assembly takes note of 
this document?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 108?
It was so decided.
Agenda items 30 and 117
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/67/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
The President: I now give the floor to the President 
of  the  Security  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hardeep 
Singh  Puri,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/67/2).
Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India), President of the 
Security Council: Mr. President, I would like, first of 
all, to congratulate you on behalf of the members of the 
Security  Council  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly. It is an honour for me, as President 
of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of  November, 
to introduce the annual report of the Security Council 
(A/67/2).  The  presentation  of  the  report  is  more  than 
a  regular  reporting  exercise  pursuant  to  the  United 
Nations Charter. The report underscores the importance 
of the relationship between both principal organs of the 
United  Nations  and  provides  an  excellent  opportunity 
to  debate  and  exchange  views  with  the  general 
membership on the report on the work of the Council. I 
am therefore grateful to you, Mr. President, for having 
arranged  today’s  meeting  for  the  consideration  of  the 
Security Council’s annual report.
The report covers the period from August 2011 to 
July 2012. The introduction to the report was prepared 
by the delegation of Colombia, which held the presidency 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-59129 (E)
*1259129*
A/67/PV.38
I  would  also 
to  highlight 
in  July  2012.  I  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Néstor 
Osorio and his team for their efforts in preparing the 
introduction, to which I call the Assembly’s attention, 
because  it  gives  a  helpful  overview  of  the  different 
activities  under  the  responsibility  of  the  Council 
during the reporting period. Allow me also to thank the 
Secretariat, which prepared the other parts of the report 
now before the Assembly.
like 
the  monthly 
assessments by each presidency, which are mentioned 
in the report. They contain information, set forth on a 
monthly  basis,  on  the  most  relevant  activities  carried 
out  by  the  Council  on  each  item  of  its  agenda,  thus 
facilitating  the  overall  comprehension  of  the  report. 
Those monthly assessments are an important exercise, 
regularly  undertaken  as  part  of  the  responsibility  of 
each presidency and are aimed at informing the wider 
membership  about  the  work  of  the  Council.  I  call  the 
Assembly’s attention to them as well.
During the reporting period, the Council adopted 
60  resolutions  and  25  presidential  statements  and 
issued 83 statements to the press. The Council held 222 
formal  meetings,  of  which  205  were  public  meetings. 
Open meetings, including open debates, increased the 
transparency in the work of the Council and allowed for 
enhanced  participation  by  the  wider  membership  and 
the  international  community.  The  presidencies  of  the 
Council and of the General Assembly continued to meet 
regularly throughout the year, and monthly briefings by 
the Presidents of the Council to the wider membership 
on the Council’s work continued to be held.
Meetings  with  troop  contributors  have  also  taken 
place  as  a  regular  practice,  in  particular  prior  to  any 
decision that would have an impact on United Nations 
peacekeeping  mandates,  as  a  way  to  enable  the 
collection of relevant inputs. Those practices represent 
useful  steps  aimed  at  promoting  better  dialogue  with 
the  general  membership  on  the  work  of  the  Council. 
We  encourage  delegations  to  make  use  of  those 
opportunities to strengthen such interaction.
The  Council  continued  its  implementation  of 
note  S/2010/507  on  working  methods  and  sought  to 
undertake  further  reform  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods  wherever  possible, 
including  by  better 
planning and spreading out its workload, ensuring that 
reporting requirements were adequate to their purpose 
and  providing  for  more  efficient  use  of  conference 
resources  and  more  interactive  exchanges  among 
Council  members.  Presidencies  have  promoted  useful 
practices aimed at increasing efficiency and expediency, 
such as streamlined introductions by the President and 
video conferences in open briefings and debates aimed 
at providing updates from the field. Council members 
have  agreed  to  reduce  the  use  of  speakers’  lists  and 
better  use  of  “Other  matters”  to  discuss  issues  of 
concern. Informal interactive dialogues were also held 
regularly as a useful consultation practice.
The  Security  Council  closely 
During  the  period  of  the  report,  many  of  the 
activities  of  the  Council  were  centred,  as  in  previous 
years,  on  situations  in  Africa,  including  the  Sudan, 
Darfur,  South  Sudan,  Guinea-Bissau,  Mali,  Somalia, 
and the question of piracy off the coast of Somalia and in 
the Gulf of Guinea. The two missions conducted by the 
Council during the period under review were to Haiti, 
in  February  2012,  and  West  Africa  —  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Liberia, and Sierra Leone — in May. The Council also 
held  a  consultative  meeting  with  the  African  Union 
Peace and Security Council in New York in June.
followed 
the 
unresolved  disputes  between  the  Sudan  and  South 
Sudan  after  the  latter’s  independence  in  July  2011. 
Following  the  resumption  of  fighting  on  the  border, 
the Council adopted resolution 2046 (2012) in May to 
endorse  the  African  Union  road  map  and  to  demand 
that  the  parties  achieve  a  negotiated  solution  for  all 
unresolved  issues  after  the  secession  within  a  period 
of three months. The Council also continued to closely 
follow  the  implementation  of  resolution  2046  (2012) 
and  remained  seized  of  the  ongoing  negotiations 
between  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  to  resolve  the 
outstanding  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  issues 
under  the  auspices  of  the  African  Union  High-level 
Implementation Panel.
With regard to Somalia, the Security Council’s strong 
support  for  the  transition  process  was  instrumental 
in  bringing  to  power  the  most  representative  Somali 
leadership in decades. The joint African Union-United 
Nations  technical  assessment  mission  resulted  in  a 
revised  concept  of  operations  for  the  African  Union 
Mission in Somalia, which contributed to a significant 
improvement  in  the  security  situation  across  the 
country.
The  Council  considered  the  events  in  various 
countries  on  its  agenda  prior  to,  during  and  after 
elections  that  took  place  during  the  period  under 
review.  Following  developments  in  Libya  and  taking 
note  of  the  Declaration  of  Liberation,  the  Security 
Council unanimously adopted resolution 2016 (2011) on 
2 
12-59129
27 October 2011, reiterating the need for the transitional 
period to be underpinned by a commitment to democracy 
and  respect  for  human  rights,  and  terminating  the 
mandates regarding the protection of civilians and the 
no-fly zone, as stipulated in resolution 1973 (2011).
The  Security  Council  reacted  repeatedly  with 
concern  to  the  worsening  security  and  humanitarian 
situation in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo 
owing to the violence caused by the Mouvement du 23 
mars and all armed groups. Following the deterioration 
of  the  security  situation  in  Mali  with  the  20  March 
military  coup  and  the  northern  part  of  the  country 
being  occupied  by  armed  rebel  and  terrorist  groups, 
the  Security  Council  unanimously  adopted  resolution 
2056  (2012)  on  5  July  to  set  a  comprehensive  path  to 
solve  all  aspects  of  the  crisis.  The  Security  Council 
also  requested  the  elaboration  and  implementation 
of  a  United  Nations  integrated  strategy  for  the  Sahel. 
Reiterating  its  strong  condemnation  of  the  12  April 
military  coup  that  occurred  in  Guinea-Bissau,  the 
Security Council unanimously adopted resolution 2048 
(2012)  on  18  May,  demanding  the  restoration  of  and 
respect for the constitutional order.
Developments  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the 
Palestinian question and the ongoing effects of the Arab 
Spring,  remained  prominent  on  the  Council’s  agenda. 
The Council held monthly briefings and consultations 
on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the 
Palestinian question, and quarterly open debates on the 
issue.  Members  expressed  concern  at  the  continuing 
stalemate in the Middle East peace process and urged 
the  negotiated  settlement  of  all  issues.  The  Council 
also heard briefings from the High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights  and  the  Office  for  the  Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  on  the  human  rights  and 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.
The  Council  closely  followed  developments  in 
Syria,  Yemen,  Iraq  and  Lebanon.  One  of  the  main 
issues  considered  by  the  Council  was  the  application 
of  Palestine  for  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
Following  the  adoption  of  various  press  statements 
in  2011,  the  Council  in  April  2012  unanimously 
adopted 
(2012),  authorizing  an 
advance  team  to  monitor  the  ceasefire  in  Syria,  and 
resolution 2043 (2012), establishing the United Nations 
Supervision  Mission  in  Syria  to  monitor  and  support 
the implementation of the six-point proposal of the Joint 
resolution  2042 
A/67/PV.38
Special Envoy of the United Nations and the League of 
Arab States, Mr. Kofi Annan.
With  respect  to  the  situation  in  Yemen,  the 
Council  unanimously  adopted  resolution  2051  (2012), 
expressing  support  to  President  Hadi  Mansour  and 
the Government of National Unity of Yemen to move 
the 
forward  and  encouraging 
the  international  community  to  provide  active  and 
increasing  support  to  help  the  Yemeni  Government 
meet the outstanding political, security, economic and 
humanitarian challenges.
transition  process 
The Council also continued to monitor developments 
in  Afghanistan  and  countries  of  the  Asian  region, 
including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Myanmar and Timor-Leste.
In  Europe,  the  Security  Council  followed  up 
on  its  long-standing  interest  in  exploring  ways  and 
means  to  support  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  in  its 
institutionalization  process,  as  well  as  encouraging 
greater  progress  in  the  negotiations  in  Cyprus,  and 
monitored  the  United  Nations  Interim  Administration 
Mission  in  Kosovo  and  the  pacific  settlement  of 
differences through the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue.
The Security Council reaffirmed its commitment to 
ensuring stability and security in Haiti and to assisting 
that country in the rebuilding process by extending the 
mandate  of  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Haiti through resolution 2012 (2011).
The  issue  of  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction  also  figured  prominently  on  the 
agenda.
The  Council  also  considered  issues  concerning 
the International Tribunals for Rwanda and the former 
Yugoslavia,  and  heard  reports  from  the  Prosecutor  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  President  of 
the International Court of Justice.
Other  priorities  of  the  Council’s  work  included 
thematic,  general  and  cross-cutting  issues.  Debates 
and  consultations  were  held  on  peace  and  security  in 
Africa  and  support  for  the  United  Nations  Office  in 
West  Africa  and  the  United  Nations  Regional  Office 
for Central Africa.
The Council commended and promoted cooperation 
with sub-regional organizations and in particular with 
the  African  Union  via  resolution  2033  (2012),  which 
encourages the enhancement of the relationship.
12-59129
3
A/67/PV.38
The issues of children and armed conflict, women 
and  peace  and  security,  the  protection  of  civilians 
and  post-conflict  peacebuilding  also  figured  on  the 
Council’s agenda, with several important debates being 
held  during  the  period.  In  August  2011,  following 
an  open  debate  on  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, the Council adopted a presidential statement 
(S/PRST/2011/17),  which,  among  other  things,  sought 
to deepen the existing cooperation among the Council, 
the Secretariat and the troop- and police-contributing 
countries.
During the reporting period, the Security Council 
also approved 25 resolutions extending the mandates of 
various peacekeeping and monitoring missions.
In July, the Council held an open debate on post-
conflict  peacebuilding  (S/PV.6805)  to  consider  the 
annual  report  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(S/2012/70),  which  was  followed  by  an  interactive 
dialogue  focused  on  how  to  realize the  Commission’s 
full  potential  and  bring  all  parties  together  around 
common strategies.
The Security Council remained seized of the threat 
posed  by  terrorism  and  heard  regular  briefings  by 
the  Chairs  of  the  Committees  established  pursuant  to 
resolutions  1267  (1999)  and  1989  (2011),  1373  (2001) 
and  1540  (2004).  In  press  statements  the  Council 
strongly condemned the terrorist acts that occurred in 
various locations between August 2011 and July 2012.
I  could  go  on  and  on  about  the  matters  that  were 
under the Council’s consideration during the reporting 
period. But I would rather listen to you, Mr. President, 
and  to  the  representatives  of  other  Member  States.  I 
have therefore not mentioned several other issues that 
are  discussed  in  detail  in  the  report  and  that  may  be 
referred to.
The  annual  report  before  the  Assembly  includes 
a  significant  amount  of  analytical,  descriptive  and 
statistical information on the work of the Council, the 
preparation  of  which  required  serious  effort  on  the 
part of delegations in the Council and the Secretariat. 
I hope that Member States will seize this opportunity 
to  discuss  the  report,  and  I  will  be  glad  to  take  their 
suggestions  back  to  my  colleagues  in  the  Council. 
There  is  always  room  for  improvement,  and  Council 
members  will  benefit  from  the  Assembly’s  comments 
and suggestions.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt): I have the honour to speak today 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. At the outset, 
Mr. President, I would like to express the Movement’s 
appreciation  for  your  pledge  to  assist  in  advancing 
the  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council  during 
the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
and  to  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan  on  his  reappointment  as  chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  The  Movement 
also  takes  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  India,  the  current  President  of  the 
Council,  for  presenting  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report  (A/67/2)  for  the  period  from  1  August  2011  to 
31 July 2012. We also thank the Colombian delegation 
for its efforts in drafting an introduction to the report 
during its presidency of the Council in July.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance  to  achieving  concrete  results  on  Security 
Council reform through intergovernmental negotiations, 
on  the  basis  of  decision  62/557  and  subsequent 
decisions,  culminating  in  decision  65/554.  Reform  of 
the Security Council should be addressed in a timely, 
comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced  manner, 
without  setting  artificial  deadlines.  It  should  also 
address  all  substantive  issues  relating  to  the  question 
of  membership,  regional  representation,  the  Council’s 
agenda,  its  working  methods  and  its  decision-making 
process,  including  the  veto.  It  should  seek  to  garner 
the widest possible political acceptance on the part of 
Member States, in line with the provisions of the Charter 
and the relevant decisions, particularly decision 62/557.
Enlarging  the  Security  Council  and  reforming 
its  working  methods  should  seek  to  make  it  more 
democratic, 
and 
effective. In that context, the sixteenth Summit of the 
Non-Aligned Movement, held in Tehran, acknowledged 
the historical injustice done to Africa with regard to its 
representation in the Council and expressed support for 
its increased and enhanced representation in a reformed 
Security  Council.  The  Summit  also  took  note  of  the 
African common position, as reflected in the Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
representative, 
accountable 
Improving the Security Council’s working methods 
is crucial to its effectiveness. Transparency, openness 
and consistency are key elements that it should maintain 
in  all  its  activities.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
continues to reject any attempt to use the Council as a 
platform to pursue national political agendas. We stress 
the importance of non-selectivity and impartiality in its 
work. The Movement also reiterates its concern about 
the Security Council’s continued encroachment on the 
4 
12-59129
functions  and  powers  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Economic and Social Council by addressing issues 
that  traditionally  fall  within  the  competence  of  those 
bodies.  We  reject  the  Council’s  constant  attempts  to 
use  thematic  issues  under  its  consideration  to  expand 
its  mandate  into  areas  that  do  not  pose  a  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Council  should 
keep strictly within the powers and functions accorded 
to  it  by  Member  States  under  the  United  Nations 
Charter.
The  sanctions  imposed  by  the  Security  Council 
remain an issue of serious concern to the non-aligned 
countries.  The  objectives  of  the  sanctions  regimes 
should  be  clearly  defined,  their  imposition  should  be 
for a specific time frame, and they should be based on 
tenable legal grounds.
Having 
examined 
report, 
to 
this  year’s 
The  Security  Council’s  accountability 
the 
General  Assembly  is  well  established  in  the  Charter. 
The Assembly’s consideration of the Council’s annual 
report  is  a  core  element  in  the  relationship  between 
those  two  principal  organs.  Resolution  66/294  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
welcomes the improvements that have been made in the 
quality of the Council’s annual reports and encourages 
the Council to make further improvements as necessary. 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement believes that there is still ample 
room for improvement in its quality. The report should 
be more explanatory and analytical in its assessment of 
the work of the Council, including in those cases where 
the Council has failed to act, as well as of the reasons 
behind  the  various  outcomes,  whether  in  the  form  of 
resolutions,  presidential  statements,  press  releases  or 
statements to the press. It is also imperative that future 
annual  reports  should  also  reflect  the  general  views 
expressed  by  non-members  of  the  Council  during  its 
open debates. Issues to be covered at any briefings by 
the  Secretariat  should  be  determined  in  coordination 
with the concerned State or party and after approval by 
all members of the Security Council.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  supports  increased 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
African Union Peace and Security Council within the 
framework of cooperation between the United Nations 
and the African Union.
The  Movement  regrets  that  the  Security  Council 
Committee on the Admission of New Members was not 
able to issue a positive recommendation for Palestine’s 
A/67/PV.38
application  for  admission  to  full  membership  of  the 
United Nations, owing to the lack of unanimity among 
Council  members  on  the  issue.  The  Movement  fully 
supports the application submitted by Palestine, which 
is consistent with the right of the Palestinian people to 
self-determination and independence.
The Non-Aligned Movement remains committed to 
the ongoing process of the overall reform of the United 
Nations, including of the Security Council. Any reform 
measures should be decided by the general membership 
through  an  intergovernmental  process.  The  voice  of 
each Member State must be heard and respected.
I  would  now  like  to  say  a  few  more  words  in  my 
national  capacity  as  the  representative  of  Egypt.  I 
would  first  like  to  associate  my  remarks  with  the 
statement to be delivered later on behalf of the African 
Group. The consensus decision 62/557, establishing the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, set clear parameters for that process, as well as its 
principles and framework. Paragraph (d) of the decision 
states  that  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  be 
based only on proposals submitted by Member States.  
The  rationale  is  to  maintain  the  intergovernmental 
nature  of  the  process  and  avoid  jeopardizing  the 
impartiality of the President of the General Assembly 
and  the  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
The main objective of the negotiations is to ensure the 
widest possible political acceptance by Member States 
themselves.
The  five  negotiables  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  proved  to  be  inextricably  linked. 
They  constitute  an  integral,  inseparable  package  that 
has to be agreed upon in its entirety. That is why the 
piecemeal  solutions  and/or  initiatives  presented  by 
some groups have failed to garner the necessary support 
of Member States.
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  be 
aimed  at  reaching  a  comprehensive  agreement  that 
would  have  an  effect  on  the  power  structure  of  the 
Security  Council.  Egypt,  along  with  the  African 
Group, continues to oppose any drafting exercise that 
entails merging language and streamlining positions in 
a  text  without  agreeing  on  the  principles  and  criteria 
underlying the five key issues first.
The  annual  Security  Council 
report  under 
consideration  today  mentions  in  its  very  first  page 
that  “[m]any  of  the  Council’s  activities,  discussions 
and  efforts  were  concerned  with  the  situation  in 
12-59129
5
A/67/PV.38
several African countries” (A/67/2, p. 1). Despite that 
fact,  Africa  remains  unrepresented  in  the  permanent 
category  and  underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent 
category of the Security Council compared to all other 
regions.  The  African  Common  Position,  as  reflected 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  does  not  seek  to  impose 
national  political  interests.  It  aims  at  achieving  the 
legitimate aspirations of a whole continent that includes 
54 countries. We aim to rectify the historical injustice 
inflicted on Africa with respect to its representation in 
the Security Council.
Enhanced 
representation  of 
the  developing 
countries in the Security Council has been one of the 
fundamental  pillars  of  the  reform  process  since  the 
adoption of resolution 48/26. Egypt stresses the need to 
duly take into account the position of the members of the 
League of Arab States, who are demanding a permanent 
seat for the Arab Group in any future expansion in the 
category of permanent membership in the Council. We 
also  stress  the  need  to  take  into  account  the  position 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  which  is 
demanding  adequate  representation  of  the  Muslim 
world in any category of membership in an expanded 
Security Council.
Finally,  I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  without 
offering a practical reminder of the urgent necessity to 
reform  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council. 
Yesterday,  Egypt  requested  an  urgent  meeting  of  the 
Security Council to address the alarming escalation by 
Israel in Gaza. We deeply appreciate the earnest response 
of the President of the Security Council, Ambassador 
Hardeep Singh Puri, in convening a meeting less than 
six hours after our request (S/PV.6863). Yet the Council 
was  not  able  to  agree  on  holding  a  public  meeting.  It 
decided on the format of a private meeting. That proves 
the need for more transparency in the Council’s work. 
It  shows  that  procedural  issues  raised  by  a  limited 
category of Council members are able to obstruct the 
work of the Council.
In conclusion, Egypt reiterates the need for political 
will on the part of all of us, large and small, developing 
and  developed,  permanent 
and  non-permanent 
members,  in  order  to  achieve  an  effective  result  that 
garners the widest possible political acceptance.
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on behalf of the group of countries that sponsored draft 
resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1 six years ago. The L.69 group 
brings together a diverse group of developing countries 
from  Africa,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  and 
Asia and the Pacific that are united by a common cause, 
that is, to achieve lasting and comprehensive reform of 
the Security Council. The group is strongly united in its 
firm conviction that expansion in both the permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  categories  of  membership  of 
the Security Council is needed in order better to reflect 
contemporary  world  realities  and  achieve  a  more 
accountable,  representative  and  transparent  Security 
Council.
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
We, the L.69 group, were instrumental in starting 
the 
remain 
engaged in those negotiations on the understanding that 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  the  rules  of  procedure  of 
the General Assembly and relevant General Assembly 
resolutions require the support of a two-thirds majority 
of the United Nations membership for any decision in 
that regard.
Let  me  at  the  outset  place  on  record  the  group’s 
appreciation for the work of Ambassador Zahir Tanin of 
Afghanistan during the most recent General Assembly 
session. He has been an integral and invaluable part of 
the intergovernmental negotiations since 2009. During 
the  eighth  round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
held  during  the  previous  General  Assembly  session, 
it was clear that the membership desires early reform 
that includes expansion in both the permanent and the 
non-permanent  categories  and  improvements  in  the 
Council’s working methods.
Secondly, 
the  membership  of 
the  Assembly 
acknowledges  the  positive  and  constructive  role  that 
has been and continues to be played by the L.69 group. 
Indeed,  the  fact  that  ours  is  the  only  group  that  has 
increased in membership over the years testifies to the 
group’s  influential  role.  In  keeping  with  our  tradition 
of active support for the reform process, we have also 
put forward a number of proposals for transforming our 
interactions and deliberations into real negotiations.
like-minded  groups, 
Thirdly,  our  group  has  also  been  able  to  enhance 
convergences  with  other 
in 
particular  the  African  Group.  The  L.69  and  the 
Committee  of  10  of  the  African  Union  have  been 
collaborating  closely  on  the  convergences  between 
them  with  regard  to  comprehensive  reform.  Let  me 
reiterate  today  that  the  L.69  group  acknowledges  the 
African  Common  Position.  We  are  of  one  mind  in 
stressing  that  the  reform  we  envisage  is  far-reaching 
and intended to ensure that the Council’s structure and 
its way of doing business is fundamentally changed so 
as to make it reflective of current geopolitical realities.
6 
12-59129
A/67/PV.38
On each of the five key issues of Security Council 
reform  there  exist  clear  convergences.  In  the  view  of 
the L.69 group, the convergences are as follows.
The L.69 Group remains committed to playing its 
part in ensuring that that comprehensive reform is not 
left to future generations.
First,  the  Security  Council  must  be  enlarged  in 
both the permanent and the non-permanent categories.
Secondly, the new permanent members should have 
the  same  prerogatives  and  privileges  as  those  of  the 
current permanent members, including the veto.
Thirdly,  additional  seats  in  an  expanded  Council 
should include permanent members from Africa, Asia, 
Latin America and the Caribbean region as well as from 
the  Western  European  and  other  States.  There  should 
be  additional  non-permanent  seats  from  Africa,  Asia, 
the  Eastern  European  Group,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  region,  as  well  as  one  non-permanent  seat 
for  small  island  developing  States  across  all  regions. 
Further,  regional  groups  should  coordinate  to  ensure 
that there is regular representation for small developing 
States in the non-permanent category.
Fourthly,  the  number  of  the  Council’s  members 
should be expanded to the mid-twenties, and it should 
adapt  its  working  methods  so  as  to  increase  the 
involvement of States not members of the Council in its 
work as appropriate, enhance its accountability to the 
membership and increase the transparency of its work.
Fifthly,  the  General  Assembly’s  role  as  the  chief 
deliberative  policy-making  and  representative  organ 
of  the  United  Nations  must  be  respected  in  both 
letter and spirit. It is the considered view of the L.69 
group  that  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  be 
started  immediately  with  the  aim  of  formalizing  the 
convergences that I have just articulated.
In closing, allow me to recall paragraph 30 of the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  in  which 
world  leaders  resolved,  inter  alia,  to  intensify  their 
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects.  I  would  also  like 
to  specifically  highlight  paragraph  153  of  the  2005 
World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  in  which 
leaders  further  resolved  to  support  early  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  as  an  essential  element  of  their 
overall  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations  in  order 
to  make  it  more  broadly  representative,  efficient  and 
transparent and thus further enhance its effectiveness 
and the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions.
Mr. Ragaglini (Italy): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for  convening  today’s  debate,  which  is  helping  us  to 
focus concretely on two Security Council-related issues: 
the annual report (A/67/2) and the reform process.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the 
Council  dealt  with  several  regional  crises  in  Africa, 
particularly those in Mali and Guinea-Bissau, following 
military coups, and that in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo, resulting from the violence wrought by the 
Mouvement du 23 mars. It also addressed the situation 
in the Middle East, especially in Syria and Yemen, and 
the situations in Asia, namely, Afghanistan, Myanmar 
and Timor-Leste. Considerable time was also devoted 
to thematic and general issues, such as the rule of law, 
peacebuilding,  conflict  prevention,  non-proliferation 
and cooperation with regional organizations, especially 
the African Union.
In  that  context,  we  appreciate  the  quality  of  the 
report and its introduction prepared by our Colombian 
colleague,  Ambassador  Néstor  Osorio,  and 
the 
extensive efforts to make it more complete and detailed. 
We encourage the Security Council to continue in that 
direction as a way to improve its relationship with the 
General Assembly and to promote a greater involvement 
of the membership in its proceedings.
On  the  subject  of  Security  Council  reform,  let 
me  start  by  thanking  you,  Mr.  President,  on  behalf 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  for  your  letter 
of  9  November  informing  us  of  the  reappointment  of 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. As the letter duly notes, there are, within 
the  membership,  “various  concerns  and  divergent 
points of view on the different aspects of this complex 
and  sensitive  matter”.  In  addition,  your  letter  rightly 
points  out  that  “predictability  and  full  transparency 
remain  essential  ingredients  in  the  ongoing  process.” 
The letter concludes by informing us of your intention 
to work closely with the chair.
We  could  not  agree  more.  We  are  convinced  that 
the reform of the Security Council is one of the most 
sensitive and divisive topics at the United Nations, since 
it touches on the strategic interests of all 193 Member 
States.  We  are  also  convinced  that  transparency  and 
predictability are needed in order to build confidence 
among  Member  States.  That  is  why  we  consider  the 
12-59129
7
A/67/PV.38
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  be  the  ultimate 
and impartial guarantor of the entire process.
Let me briefly summarize the philosophy underlying 
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group’s  proposal.  In  that 
connection, I wish to recall that our group is the only 
one  that  entered  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
with some fresh ideas. It was a sign of flexibility that 
was never reciprocated.
The three principles of our platform are all based on 
the importance of an elected Security Council and on 
decision 62/557. First, regular elections are imperative 
in order to ensure an accountable, accessible Security 
Council in which membership is earned as a privileged 
responsibility  and  not  granted  as  a  permanent  right 
to  individual  countries  in  fulfilment  of  their  national 
aspirations;  secondly,  the  election  process  makes  the 
Council flexible and adaptable to the constant changes 
in  the  world’s  political  and  economic  landscape; 
thirdly,  the  electoral  system  makes  the  Security 
Council  more  representative.  Permanent  membership, 
with  no  provision  for  periodic  endorsement  from  the 
wider  membership,  has  no  representative  character 
whatsoever.
In  line  with  those  principles,  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  group  has  proposed  a  new  category  of 
seats  with  longer  terms  of  up  to  six  years,  as  well  as 
an  increase  in  the  number  of  regular  non-permanent 
members.  Our  proposal  also  provides  a  quota  for  the 
representation of small States in the Security Council.
We are also convinced there is a need to correct the 
underrepresentation  of  Africa,  so  our  proposal  offers 
a  viable  compromise  that  addresses  that  continent’s 
particularities.  Some  of  the  specifics  include  Charter 
recognition,  size  and  allocation  of  new  seats;  for 
example,  under  the  proposal,  40  per  cent  of  the  new 
seats, in particular those with longer terms, would go to 
Africa. We suggest that the African representatives be 
selected or rotated by the African Union or the Group of 
African States, after which the slate would be submitted 
to the General Assembly for election. In that way, the 
ambitions of a continent, rather than the aspirations of 
individual Member States, would be recognized.
Finally, we feel that the working methods should be 
improved  through  greater  openness  and  transparency, 
that the Security Council should be more accountable 
to  the  General  Assembly  —  and  an  elected  Council 
would be the best guarantee in that respect — and that 
the veto should be limited, if not abolished.
Turning  now  to  the  process,  the  move  from  a 
long-standing  working  group  to  intergovernmental 
negotiations  stemmed  from  decision  62/557,  which 
was  adopted  by  consensus  in  2008.  That  decision 
states  clearly  that  the  negotiations  must  be  based 
on  the  proposals  of  Member  States.  It  adds  that  the 
five  key  issues  or  negotiables  should  be  dealt  with 
in  a  comprehensive  way,  and  thus  clearly  rejects  any 
piecemeal approach. That decision must be upheld. Any 
attempt to force through a piecemeal approach is bound 
to  fail.  The  same  fate  is  reserved  for  proposals  that 
are not mandated by or do not originate from Member 
States.
It  is  clear  that  Security  Council  reform  is  still  a 
very sensitive matter on which there are deep concerns 
and points of divergence within the membership. After 
almost 20 years of failed attempts to impose contrasting 
visions on one another, we all need to work together to 
forge  a  genuine  compromise  that  can  gain  the  widest 
political  support  —  hence  the  crucial  role  of  the 
President of the General Assembly and the chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations as confidence-builders 
who  can  bring  the  players  to  the  same  table.  Yet, 
according  to  decision  62/557,  the  determination  as  to 
which  card  to  play  must  remain  in  the  hands  of  the 
Member States.
One  constructive  way  to  commence  the  session 
would be to have the chair consult with Member States 
to  agree  on  a  predictable  and  transparent  calendar  of 
work.  That  approach  proved  to  be  useful  last  year, 
and we encourage you, Sir, and Ambassador Tanin to 
repeat  that  scheme.  Any  proposal  that  has  not  been 
agreed upon or mandated by the Member States risks 
sending  us  back  to  square  one.  That  is  not  what  we 
want. It would also not encourage concrete progress in 
the reform process.
Along  those  lines,  Mr.  President,  you  can  count 
on  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group’s  support  and 
flexibility.
Mr. Rybakov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): We are 
grateful  to  the  Security  Council  for  having  prepared 
the  report  on  its  work  over  the  past  year  (A/67/2). 
The  delegation  of  Belarus  has  studied  the  document 
carefully  and  takes  note  of  its  comprehensive  and 
informative nature. We support the point of view that the 
report would be of even greater value for delegations, 
particularly  those  that  are  not  Council  members,  if  it 
contained elements analysing the situations in various 
regions of the world. In our view, that could have been 
8 
12-59129
achieved  by  moving  the  elements  of  analysis  into  the 
monthly  report  documents  that  are  prepared  by  the 
delegations presiding over the Security Council.
In  the  past  year  we  have  seen  how  important  the 
role  of  the  Security  Council  is  in  today’s  system  of 
international relations. Belarus favours the maintenance 
and  strengthening  of  that  status.  We  consider  the 
Council to be the major element in the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  Unquestionably,  in 
order to remain the cornerstone of the existing system, 
the Council must act in keeping with today’s realities. 
In that context, we see no alternative but to reform that 
body, which was established by the Charter. Moreover, 
that reform must be based on a consensus approach and 
promote the enhancement of the Council’s effectiveness. 
Making  comprehensive  changes  to  the  Council 
based on the five negotiables, as set forth in decision 
62/557,  is  one  of  the  key  steps  to  transforming  the 
United  Nations  into  an  effective  mechanism  for 
responding  efficiently  to  crisis  situations.  We  cannot 
ignore  the  fact  that  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
Security Council reform have been going on for more 
than  20  years.  The  parties  to  the  negotiating  process 
have  demonstrated  determination  and  the  seriousness 
of  their  intention  to  achieve  a  final  result.  However, 
no delegation could claim that those negotiations have 
produced any substantive outcome to date.
To achieve results, we need to demonstrate political 
will and flexibility. At the same time, we oppose hasty 
attempts to put to a vote documents that have not been 
studied in detail or gained broad support from States, or 
that may have a negative impact on future negotiations.
We  believe  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
must  lead  to  a  more  balanced  and  just  apportionment 
of powers. We support an expansion in the number of 
seats in the Council in order to give all regional groups 
additional  seats  on  the  Council.  We  take  note  of  the 
underrepresentation  of  the  Eastern  European  Group 
among  the  non-permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council and reaffirm our stated position on enhancing 
the representation of that Group among the permanent 
members of the Council.
We  believe  it  is  necessary  to  continue  enhancing 
the transparency of the activity of the Security Council. 
We  welcome  the  expansion  of  the  practice  of  holding 
open  debates  and  presidential  briefings,  including  at 
the end of term. We believe that it would be useful to 
continue the development of that practice.
A/67/PV.38
Maintaining  the  balance  of  the  entire  United 
Nations  system  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  We 
therefore find inadmissible the unfounded interference 
by  the  Security  Council  in  the  areas  of  competence 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and the Human Rights Council.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
We  see  a  need  to  have  non-Council  members  be 
involved to a greater degree when decisions are taken 
affecting their interests, for the expansion of the practice 
of  holding  open  meetings  and  for  the  organization  of 
close  interaction  between  the  Sanctions  Committees 
and the countries affected by sanctions.
Today, we are faced with the important objectives 
of  reforming  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole  and 
the  Security  Council  in  particular.  Peace  and  the 
international order are changing at a dizzying pace. We 
simply have no moral right to waste yet another year in 
a negotiating process that is taking us nowhere. In that 
regard,  Belarus  calls  on  all  parties  to  the  negotiating 
process to demonstrate political will and readiness to 
compromise, which are crucial for the adoptions of the 
decisions  needed  to  reform  the  Security  Council  and 
strengthen the Organization as a whole.
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  Security  Council  President, 
Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri, for his presentation 
of the Council’s annual report to the General Assembly 
(A/67/2),  and  Ambassador  Néstor  Osorio  and  the 
Colombian  delegation  for  their  preparation  of  the 
introduction to the report during their presidency of the 
Security Council in July.
The annual report provides all Member States with 
a transparent and comprehensive review of the Security 
Council’s  intensive  work.  We  hope  that  the  report 
continues to facilitate the exchange of information and 
enhance cooperation between the two coequal principal 
organs of the United Nations. The United States takes 
seriously the importance of making sure that all Member 
States are informed of and appropriately involved in the 
Council’s  work.  In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  see 
that  the  Council  held  222  formal  meetings,  of  which 
205  were  public  meetings,  from  August  2011  to  July 
2012. The United States is also committed to improving 
the working methods of the Council, and we continue 
to  encourage  increased  interaction  between  Member 
12-59129
9
A/67/PV.38
States  and  the  Council’s  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation and Other Procedural Questions.
The  Security  Council  first  met  in  January  1946, 
under  Australia’s  presidency.  At  that  time,  former 
Secretary of State and first United States Ambassador 
to the United Nations, Edward Stettinius, Jr., said that 
the  General  Assembly,  inter  alia,  was  responsible  for 
building the kind of world in which lasting peace will 
be possible, and that the Security Council must see to it 
that the peace is kept. Nearly 67 years later, the members 
of the Council remain dedicated to that mission.
As  the  world’s  principal  body  for  dealing  with 
global  security  cooperation,  the  Council  needs  to 
reflect the realities of the new century. We recognize 
that  various  groups  of  Member  States  have  presented 
proposals  to  add  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members, and also to add veto-wielding members. The 
United States is open in principle to a modest expansion 
of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent  members, 
but  we  strongly  believe  that  any  consideration  of  an 
expansion  of  permanent  members  must  be  country-
specific  in  nature.  Moreover,  the  United  States  is  not 
open  to  an  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  that 
changes  the  current  veto  structure.  Given  that  up  to 
now  no  proposal  has  enjoyed  consensus  among  us  in 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform,  we  must  continue  to  roll  up  our  sleeves  and 
discuss the way forward together.
To  that  end,  the  United  States  welcomes  the 
continuation  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at 
this session of the General Assembly. The United States 
continues to view those negotiations as the best forum to 
build a path toward a reformed Security Council. In our 
last round of intergovernmental negotiations in July, the 
United States indicated that the way to find agreement 
is not through ultimatums, but through a step-by-step 
approach. We welcome Ambassador Tanin’s continued 
role as chair of the negotiation process and trust that he 
will guide us on such a path. We assure him of our full 
cooperation.
It remains essential that we work together through 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  overcome  our 
differences  and  find  a  comprehensive  solution  that 
addresses  the  common  aspirations  of  Member  States. 
We very much look forward to continuing that dialogue 
with all Members.
of 10 of the African Union (AU) on the reform of the 
Security  Council.  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
for  having  convened  this  debate  on  agenda  item  117. 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  congratulate  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  upon  his  reappointment  as  chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and  to  express  our 
appreciation for his efforts during past sessions.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  commitment  of  the 
member  States  of  the  African  Union  to  this  very 
important issue and state that we look forward to building 
on the progress made during the sixty-sixth session on 
the basis of General Assembly decision 65/554.
We are heartened that during the general debate of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, many 
heads of State and Government and heads of delegation 
reaffirmed the need to reform the Security Council in 
order  to  make  it  more  representative,  democratic  and 
legitimate.  We  must  all  therefore  continue  to  seek 
the  goal  of  reaching  an  early  agreement  on  a  reform 
model  that  takes  into  account  the  core  values  of  the 
United  Nations,  namely,  inclusiveness,  democracy, 
accountability, equality and transparency.
It is becoming increasingly clear that after nearly 
two  decades  of  debate,  we  seem  to  be  gradually 
approaching  a  point  where  the  United  Nations  will 
lose credibility if we fail to generate the political will 
necessary to make progress on this very crucial issue. 
We  continue  to  urge  Member  States  to  be  flexible  in 
our  common  pursuit  of  a  global  governance  system 
that is more representative, more democratic and more 
transparent.
Africa continues to engage in the intergovernmental 
negotiations  with  an  open-door  policy,  aiming  at 
correcting the historical injustice suffered by being the 
only continent not represented in the Security Council’s 
permanent-member  category  and  underrepresented  in 
the non-permanent category. The Council remains at the 
centre of global governance in maintaining international 
peace and security. The 2005 World Summit Outcome 
(resolution  60/1)  expressed  the  need  to  enhance  the 
Council’s 
and 
effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  of  its  decisions,  as 
well  as  the  democratic  nature  of  its  decision-making 
process.  Therefore,  correcting  the  lingering  historical 
injustice done to the continent becomes imperative and 
compelling.
representativeness, 
accountability 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
present the position of Africa on behalf of the Committee 
To  that  end,  we  urge  the  wider  United  Nations 
membership  to  work  with  Africa  to  urgently  address 
10 
12-59129
this injustice. We are committed to building alliances 
in support of the African common position with diverse 
interest  groups  and  Member  States  engaged  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  in  conformity  with 
the  mandate  of  the  Committee  of  10,  with  a  view  to 
achieving an early reform of the Security Council. In 
that pursuit, member States of the African Union were 
called  upon  to  include  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform among the priorities of their foreign policies.
Africa’s position is a continental aspiration, which 
we believe all Member States and other stakeholders are 
now very familiar with. In that regard, it is important 
to  recall  that  in  1945,  when  the  United  Nations  was 
formed,  most  of  Africa  was  not  represented,  and 
when  the  first  reform  took  place  in  1963,  Africa  was 
represented but at the time not considered for inclusion 
in the permanent category. Circumstances have changed 
since  then,  and  it  is  merely  simple  justice  for  Africa 
to  be  fully  represented  in  all  decision-making  organs 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  in  the  Security 
Council. Full representation of Africa in the Security 
Council,  according  to  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the Sirte Declaration, means, first, acquiring no fewer 
than two permanent seats, with all the prerogatives and 
privileges  of  permanent  membership,  including  the 
right of veto if it continues to exist. Secondly, we are 
claiming five non-permanent seats.
In  the  spirit  of  our  commitment  to  address  the 
issue  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
related matters, we must now seek agreement on how 
to  move  forward  with  revision  3  of  the  facilitator’s 
compiled  text.  Various  suggestions  have  been  made 
about  how  to  proceed  with  the  document.  While  the 
chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process 
had,  inter  alia,  called  for  the  document  to  be  edited, 
some  Member  States  continue  to  call  for  it  to  be 
streamlined or shortened and/or to merge the positions. 
More  recently,  the  facilitator,  in  his  letter  of  25  July 
2012, recommended, among other things, the need for 
genuine  give-and-take  based  on  a  concise  document 
to  be  drafted  by  him  and  the  holding  of  a  high-level 
meeting on Security Council reform to assess the state 
of play and propose ways to keep the process moving 
forward. 
Thus there is, first, a need for a general agreement 
on what to do with the text. We have not yet reached 
that agreement. Secondly, we need further clarification 
from  the  facilitator  regarding  the  content  and  scope 
A/67/PV.38
of  his  proposed  concise  document.  Thirdly,  we  need 
the  added  value  of  the  proposed  high-level  meeting, 
because  we  have  not  reached  any  agreement  since 
the  2005  World  Summit,  when  heads  of  State  and 
Government called for an early reform of the Security 
Council. In our view, it will therefore be more useful 
for  the  facilitator  to  provide  further  clarifications  on 
his recommendations.
in 
imbalance 
Correcting 
the  present 
the 
composition  of  the  Council  with  a  view  to  making  it 
into a more legitimate organ, primarily responsible for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
remains  the  collective  responsibility  of  all  Member 
States.  We  hope  that  this  session  will  build  on  the 
progress made during the last session and will increase 
the  pace  for  a  more  frank  and  lively  debate,  one  that 
will be more flexible, compromising and decisive and 
will  generate  the  necessary  political  will  that  would 
lead  to  a  speedy  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  in 
accordance with the vision of our leaders at the 2005 
World Summit.
Allow me to conclude by thanking the President of 
the Security Council, Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri, 
Permanent Representative of India, for his presentation 
of the Council’s annual report to the General Assembly 
(A/67/2), covering the activities of the Council for the 
period  from  1  August  2011  to  31  July  2012.  We  look 
forward  to  an  enhanced  relationship  between  the 
Council and the General Assembly and improvement in 
the Council’s working methods.
Mrs. Ribeiro Viotti (Brazil): We very much value 
the  opportunity  to  discuss  in  the  wider  setting  of  the 
General  Assembly  the  recent  work  of  the  Security 
Council and to reflect on ideas to make that body more 
representative, democratic and transparent. 
Brazil  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier  by  Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica,  on  behalf  of  the  group 
of 
resolution 
A/61/L.69/Rev.1. 
sponsored 
countries 
draft 
that 
We  are  glad  to  note  that  the  annual  report  of 
the  Security  Council  (A/67/2)  highlights  some  of 
the  efforts  to  increase  the  transparency  of  Council 
activities. Open debates, consultations with the troop- 
and  police-contributing  countries,  field  missions  and 
outreach  to  country-specific  configurations  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission are all important attempts 
12-59129
11
A/67/PV.38
to promote inclusiveness and enhance the effectiveness 
of the Council’s decisions.
However, a more representative Security Council, 
aligned  with  current  political  realities,  will  be 
achieved  only  through  a  real  reform  of  its  current 
structure.  That  goal  has  been  consistently  advocated 
by  a  large  majority  of  Member  States,  as  the  debates 
on the subject held during the Assembly’s last session 
once  again  demonstrated.  A  large  majority  has  also 
expressed  support  for  an  expansion  of  the  Council  in 
both categories of membership and for improvement of 
its methods of work. 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  since 
Together with its partners in the Group of Four and 
the  L.69  group,  Brazil  has  been  a  staunch  supporter 
of 
their 
inception. We reiterate our commitment to that process. 
The time has come, however, to begin a new phase in 
our talks. The new phase should be result-oriented and 
characterized  by  real  and  substantive  negotiations. 
For  that  to  happen,  it  is  essential  that  a  negotiating 
document with fewer options and a focus on ideas that 
have  garnered  broad  support  from  Member  States  be 
prepared. A concise negotiating document is pivotal to 
kick-start the process and to lead us to tangible results. 
In  his  letter  dated  25  July  the  chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin, presented his assessment of the work undertaken 
during the last General Assembly session and conveyed 
recommendations  that,  in  Brazil’s  view,  constitute 
a  sound  basis  for  our  future  work.  We  commend  him 
for  that  initiative.  The  letter  provides  us  with  a  clear 
set of options that may allow us to move forward and 
seek tangible progress. In line with his proposals, we 
are ready to enter into real negotiations with a view to 
achieving a meaningful reform.
Progress in Security Council reform is long overdue. 
It  is  our  hope  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
will be resumed soon, building on the progress achieved 
so far, including the inputs offered by Member States 
and the recommendations presented by the chair. In this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  letter  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  dated 9 November, in which he was 
reappointed Ambassador Tanin to continue to chair the 
negotiations  in  the  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Brazil is ready to cooperate with Mr. Tanin in his work.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  thanking  the  President 
for his leadership of the General Assembly during the 
current session.
Mr. Kim Sook (Republic of Korea): At the outset, 
I would like to thank the President for convening this 
important meeting of the General Assembly regarding 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/67/2) 
and  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  Allow  me 
to extend my deepest appreciation to the membership 
of the General Assembly, which rendered its valuable 
support to the candidature of the Republic of Korea for 
a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 
term 2013 and 2014.
The  Security  Council  was  actively  engaged  in 
tackling  a  great  number  of  challenges  all  around  the 
world during the reporting period. It remained the most 
relied-upon  organ  for  the  international  community 
in  the  field  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
Council’s  vigorous  engagement  was  indispensable 
in  enhancing  peace  and  moving  the  political  process 
forward in such places as Somalia, the Sudan and South 
Sudan, and Timor-Leste.
We  have  seen  encouraging  developments 
in 
Somalia, where the Council’s support for the transition 
process, in cooperation with the African Union, has laid 
solid groundwork for the establishment of a legitimate 
Government.
The firm action by the Council, as envisaged in its 
unanimously adopted resolution 2046 (2012), countered 
the escalation of violence between the Sudan and South 
Sudan and enabled the negotiations on unresolved issues 
to make progress. The Republic of Korea, for its part, 
intends  to  contribute  to  stability  and  reconstruction 
in  the  region  by  sending  a  300-member  engineering 
corps to the United Nations Mission in South Sudan in 
coming months.
In  Timor-Leste,  the  active  involvement  of  the 
United Nations in the country’s efforts to achieve peace 
and stability since 1999 is now drawing to a successful 
end. We believe that such successful engagement by the 
international community in the form of United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  —  a  peace  investment  that 
pays off, with a clear-cut exit — needs to be emulated.
The  Republic  of  Korea  also  appreciates  the  work 
of the Security Council in managing the developments 
during  the  course  of  the  Arab  Spring  in  countries 
ranging from Libya to Yemen. We note the adoption of 
the Council resolutions regarding Libya, including 2009 
(2011) and 2016 (2011), which offer a political basis for 
improving the security situation in the country. We also 
12 
12-59129
welcome  resolutions  2014  (2011)  and  2051  (2012),  on 
the political transition in Yemen.
Regarding 
the  situation 
Syria  remains  the  biggest  peace  and  security 
challenge of the day. The Republic of Korea is deeply 
concerned  about  the  mass  killings  of  civilians  and 
gross violations of human rights in Syria. We commend 
the  efforts  of  the  Joint  Special  Envoy  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria 
and  the  Security  Council-mandated  United  Nations 
Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic with 
a view to the implementation of the six-point proposal 
during the reporting period. We truly hope the Council 
will  be  able  to  build  unity  and  act  decisively  on  this 
tragic  and  long-standing  issue,  which  has  significant 
repercussions for regional security.
in 
the  Middle  East, 
including  the  Palestinian  question,  the  Republic  of 
Korea  fully  supports  the  two-State  solution,  a  vision 
in which Israel and Palestine live side by side in peace 
and  prosperity.  We  hope  that  a  peaceful,  negotiated 
resolution  to  the  matter  will  be  reached  in  the  near 
future with the support of the international community.
Among  other  concerns  before  the  international 
community  are  the  challenges  to  the  constitutional 
order in democracy. We are worried about the military 
coups that occurred in Mali and Guinea-Bissau earlier 
this year and welcome the firm actions by the Security 
Council,  as  shown  in  its  resolutions  2056  (2012)  and 
2048  (2012),  respectively.  It  is  also  worrying  that  the 
activities of armed elements destabilize the peace and 
stability in fragile regions, with the Mouvement du 23 
mars — the M-23 — in the eastern part of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the Lord’s Resistance Army in 
the Central African region and armed rebel groups in 
northern  Mali  being  the  cases  in  point.  We  hope  the 
Security  Council  will  remain  firm  and  vigilant  in 
responding to such destabilizing forces.
On  the  issue  of  non-proliferation,  the  Republic 
of  Korea  welcomes  and  supports  the  Council’s  swift 
adoption  of 
the  presidential  statement  on  North 
Korea’s  launch  of  a  long-range  missile  in  April  2012 
(S/PRST/2012/13).  We  particularly  note 
the 
statement strongly condemned the launch, underscored 
that  it  was  a  serious  violation  of  Security  Council 
resolutions 1718 (2006) and 1874 (2009), and expressed 
the Council’s determination to take action accordingly 
in the event of a further launch or nuclear test by North 
Korea.  We  also  take  note  of  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 
that 
A/67/PV.38
1718  (2006)  concerning 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  which  includes  the  designation  of 
additional entities subject to sanctions measures in May 
2012.
On international cooperation for non-proliferation, 
the Republic of Korea appreciates the growing role of 
the  Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant 
to  resolution  1540  (2004),  as  shown  in  Council 
resolution 2055 (2012). We also welcome the presidential 
statement  on  nuclear  security  (S/PRST/2012/14),  in 
April.
The Republic of Korea also values the work of the 
Security Council on thematic and cross-cutting issues. 
We  welcome  the  Council’s  increasing  engagement 
in  issues  concerning  women  and  peace  and  security, 
children  and  armed  conflict,  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding. We believe that the Council should make 
greater  efforts  in  identifying  the  linkages  between 
the  thematic  issues  and  country-specific  situations, 
keeping the issues more focused and action-oriented so 
as to make a substantial contribution to improving the 
situation on the ground.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  has 
undertaken notable efforts to enhance the participation 
of  the  wider  membership  in  its  work,  including  by 
increasing the number of public meetings and providing 
monthly  briefings  by  its  President.  It  should  continue 
to  strengthen  such  efforts  towards  openness  and 
transparency.
The  Council  should  also  work  on  expanding  its 
relationships and enhancing cooperation with regional 
and  subregional  organizations.  Cooperation  with 
regional institutions has become all the more essential 
for finding appropriate solutions to crises and conflicts 
and for making optimal use of resources and capacities.
On  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform,  the 
Republic of Korea believes that the only plausible way 
to  bring  about  a  more  representative,  accountable, 
democratic  and  effective  Council  is  through  holding 
periodic  elections.  Periodic  elections  are  essential 
in  ensuring  the  democratic  principle,  which  lies  at 
the  heart  of  the  legitimacy  of  reforming  the  Council. 
Reform  should  be  firmly  based  on  a  membership-
driven  and  comprehensive  approach,  as  stipulated  in 
decision 62/557. We look forward to the stewardship of 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform so that we can 
12-59129
13
A/67/PV.38
achieve concrete progress during the current session of 
the General Assembly.
The Republic of Korea, as a non-permanent member 
of  the  Security  Council  for  2013-2014,  will  spare 
no  efforts  in  striving  to  enhance  the  accountability, 
transparency and efficiency of the Council.
Mr. Visconti (France) (spoke in French): Allow me 
first  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  introductory 
statement  of  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri, and for his presentation 
of the annual report of the Security Council (A/67/2). I 
would also like to thank the Permanent Representative 
of Colombia, who, as Council President in July, prepared 
that  important  report  to  the  General  Assembly.  With 
his team, he has seen to it that the report reflects the 
Council’s work in a complete and transparent manner. I 
also wish to thank the Secretariat, which supported that 
process. I take this opportunity to take note of the high 
quality  of  the  Council’s  new  website,  which  contains 
updated information in all languages on the activity of 
the Security Council. That is also progress that benefits 
the entire Organization.
The  growing  quality  of  the  Council’s  reports  to 
the  Assembly  is  a  demonstration  of  the  continuing 
improvement  of  Council’s  working  methods,  to  the 
benefit  of  all  States  Members  of  our  Organization. 
In  that  context,  France  appreciates  the  work  of  the 
Council’s Informal Working Group on Documentation 
and Other Procedural Questions, which this year, under 
the  guidance  of  the  Ambassador  of  Portugal,  whom  I 
congratulate  here,  has  made  numerous  improvements 
possible.  In  particular,  we  support  the  thinking  on 
genuine  publicity  for 
the  debates,  especially  on 
issues of general interest, on dialogue with the troop-
contributing  countries  and  on  a  better  taking  into 
account of the fight against impunity in the Council’s 
work.
The upcoming public debate on working methods 
under  the  Indian  presidency  of  the  Council  will  be 
an  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  all  States  on 
the  topic.  On  that  occasion  France  will  come  back  to 
the  idea  of  the  Council’s  permanent  members  jointly 
renouncing  the  use  of  the  veto  when  the  Council  is 
seized with mass crimes and atrocities. 
Beyond  the  improvement  of  its  working  methods, 
we know that reform of the Council’s working methods 
is  necessary.  Many  of  us  here  have  been  saying  that 
for  20  years  now.  To  further  reflect  the  reality  of 
today’s world, to more closely adapt to new challenges 
while  remaining  in  a  position  to  fully  shoulder  its 
responsibilities  given 
threatening 
international peace and security, the Security Council 
must undergo an ambitious reform. 
the  crises  now 
The  process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations 
headed  by  Ambassador  Tanin  has  allowed  us  to 
make  progress  in  our  thinking.  The  eighth  round  of 
negotiations has made our debates more dynamic with 
respect to the initiatives presented by Member States or 
groups of Member States. That impetus must not be lost; 
the  path  charted  by  the  facilitator  should  be  explored 
through a collective effort of the Member States. In that 
spirit, France welcomes the decision of the President of 
the General Assembly to reappoint Ambassador Tanin 
as facilitator. We will need to work on the basis of the 
latest proposals.
France,  for  its  part,  supports  the  enlargement  of 
the Security Council in both categories of membership. 
Our  demands  have  not  changed  —  reform  of  the 
Council must take into account the emergence of new 
Powers  that  have  both  the  will  and  the  capability  to 
shoulder responsibility for a permanent presence in the 
Council and that, in accordance with the Charter of the 
United Nations, are in a position to make a significant 
contribution to the Council’s action in the maintenance 
of international peace and security. It is in that context 
that France supports a strengthened presence of African 
countries, including among the permanent members, as 
well as the candidacies of Germany, Brazil, Japan and 
India for permanent seats. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  not  be 
relegated  to  the  background  of  our  priorities.  With 
the  active  and  much-appreciated  assistance  of  the 
facilitator,  Ambassador  Tanin,  it  is  in  the  Assembly 
President’s power to provide a decisive impetus to the 
discussions. France, like numerous other States in the 
General  Assembly,  stands  ready  to  work  actively  to 
resolve impasses. France will make its contribution and 
provide its support as we continue our work. 
Mr.  AlJarallah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the outset, my country’s delegation extends with great 
pleasure  its  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  President 
of  the  Security  Council  for  the  current  month,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  India,  for  the  report  of 
the Security Council to the General Assembly (A/67/2), 
as  well  as  for  the  information  on  the  activities  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  past  year,  which  indicates  a 
noticeable  increase  in  the  Council’s    workload.  We 
14 
12-59129
are also pleased to congratulate the friendly countries 
that have been elected new members of the Council for 
2013 and 2014: Argentina, Australia, Luxembourg, the 
Republic of Korea and Rwanda. 
We  emphasize  our  support  for  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  welcome  and  appreciate 
Ambassador Tanin’s efforts in leading the work of the 
intergovernmental negotiations. We hope to see in the 
current session tangible progress on the issue of Security 
Council reform and to realize the long-awaited historic 
achievement that meets the expectations of all of us to 
energize the Council and improve its performance. 
It  is  appropriate  that  the  question  of  equitable 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council and related matters should be one of 
the most important items on the Assembly’s agenda at 
a time when there is an urgent need to take articulated, 
decisive  positions  that  contribute  to  pushing  forward 
the process of Security Council reform. Although there 
is a consensus among Member States on the principle of 
change and reform, we nevertheless have not yet been 
able to agree on the substance of the needed changes. 
In  that  context,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of 
requiring that any suggestions relating to the expansion 
and  reform  of  the  Security  Council  obtain  general 
approval  from  all  Member  States.  Over  the  20  years 
that  have  passed  since  the  opening  of  negotiations 
on  expanding  the  membership  of  the  Council  and 
improving  its  methods  of  work,  numerous  initiatives 
and  ideas  have  been  put  forward.  However,  the  way 
remains  obstructed.  Political  will  is  required  for  a 
convergence of views that might allow us to reach the 
desired goals. Repeated challenges in the international 
political arena should drive us to exert more pressure 
to  improve  the  course  of  negotiations  and  affirm  the 
importance of collective work.
First,  Security  Council 
In recent years, the State of Kuwait’s position on the 
process of reforming the Security Council has remained 
consistent, based as it is on the five established points. 
in 
accordance with the general perception that the process 
of reforming and developing all United Nations bodies 
should be continued with a view to greater integration 
and balance in the work of the Organization. Also, the 
process must focus on the role of the Security Council 
in  relation  to  other  United  Nations  bodies  such  as 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
reform  must  be 
A/67/PV.38
Council, in order to curb the tendency to encroach on 
their areas of competence. The Council’s role must be 
confined to the fulfilment of its functions as mandated 
by the Charter of the United Nations, in other words, 
the maintenance of international peace and security.
Secondly,  any  ideas  for  Security  Council  reform 
must stem from the keen interests of all Members, in 
order  to  make  the  Council  more  representative  of  the 
entire membership of the United Nations and to reflect 
current international realities, which have changed so 
much since the Organization was established in 1945.
Thirdly, it is crucial that we work on improving the 
Council’s methods and ways of working, making them 
clearer and more transparent. This should include a list 
of  formal  and  permanent  working  procedures  aimed 
at  improving  and  organizing  the  Council’s  working 
methods.
Fourthly,  the  right  to  the  veto  should  be  codified 
by  regulating  and  limiting  it  through,  for  example, 
excluding  the  possibility  of  a  veto  except  on  matters 
that fall under Chapter VII of the Charter.
Fifthly, any expansion of the number of seats on the 
Security  Council  must  allow  smaller  States  increased 
opportunities for membership and participation in the 
Council’s work. It must not overlook the rights of Arab 
and  Muslim  States,  in  accordance  with  their  number 
and  importance  and  the  contribution  they  make  to 
defending the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
rapidly 
the 
international  community  is  facing  around  the  world 
should make us all the more determined to strengthen 
and  revitalize  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  so  as 
to  make  it  more  capable  and  effective  in  meeting 
and  overcoming  those  challenges  and  to  ensure  that 
it  functions  in  a  more  representative,  transparent, 
impartial and credible way.
increasing  challenges 
The 
that 
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  We 
thank the President for this opportunity to discuss the 
annual report of the Security Council (A/67/2). As we 
know,  it  is  the  only  occasion  on  which  the  General 
Assembly can assess the Council’s work in the area of 
peace and security.
We have before us a 275-page document that covers 
the Security Council’s activities for the past year. We 
first wish to thank Colombia for its significant effort in 
compiling the report and the Permanent Representative 
12-59129
15
A/67/PV.38
of India for his capable presentation. In that regard, we 
would  like  to  encourage  future  Council  Presidents  to 
furnish the principal author of the report with monthly 
analytical assessments that can then provide input for 
exchanges between the Council and Member States as 
a whole in the framework of the report’s preparation.
The  President  of 
the  Council  concluded  his 
statement  by  inviting  us  to  make  suggestions  for 
improving  the  report.  I  would  be  glad  to  respond  to 
that invitation, but after reading the report and having 
gone over my speech from last year, I must admit that 
I  am  somewhat  in  the  position  of  Senator  Cato,  who 
continued  to  repeat  the  same  message  over  and  over 
in the Roman Senate with the famous words “Ceterum 
censeo” — “Moreover, I think”.
Moreover, I think, first, that in particular the link 
between  the  geographic  and  thematic  contexts  being 
dealt  with  could  be  strengthened.  Such  subjects  as 
children in armed conflict, the protection of civilians, 
and women and peace and security are not abstract but 
are directly linked to specific places and regions.
My  second  Ceterum  censeo  refers  to  the  lack 
of  a  systematic  approach  to  certain  cross-cutting 
issues.  To  cite  one  example,  the  Council’s  protection 
architecture presents opportunities for improvement. A 
study  by  the  NGO  Working  Group  on  Women,  Peace 
and  Security  —  a  kind  of  shadow  report  supported 
by  Switzerland  —  demonstrates  this  shortcoming. 
The  study  also  shows  that  such  subjects  become 
less  important  especially  at  times  when  there  is  a 
question of rapid intervention at a moment of crisis or 
deterioration — exactly when the risk of serious human 
rights violations is greatest.
To go back to the preparation of the report itself, 
we  are  pleased  to  see  that  discussions  of  structure 
are  included  and  are  continuing,  because  the  report 
constitutes  a  vital  element  in  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods.  In  that  regard, 
we particularly thank Portugal for its valuable work in 
chairing the Informal Working Group on Documentation 
and  Other  Procedural  Questions.  We  are  also  pleased 
that India is organizing an open debate on the Council’s 
working  methods  on  26  November,  and  we  urge  all 
Member  States  to  participate  in  those  discussions.  It 
will provide an excellent opportunity for all of us to go 
into those issues in depth and in more detail.
The report reflects a year that was particularly rich 
in events before the Security Council. As is always the 
case,  there  are  both  positive  and  negative  points.  We 
commend the Council’s work on the Sudan and South 
Sudan, as well as resolution 2046 (2012), which made 
it possible to ensure regular monitoring of the situation 
there and which is an example of good cooperation with 
a  regional  organization.  It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say 
that the Security Council contributed in a substantive 
manner to avoiding an escalation of the conflict. 
In the same way, after the coups d’état in Mali and 
Guinea-Bissau, the Council responded with one voice. 
In the Sahel region, however, much remains to be done, 
given the great tension there, and we therefore encourage 
the  Council  to  continue  to  follow  that  situation  very 
closely and not to give priority to a military approach 
over a political one.
It is important to become involved at a preliminary 
stage of a conflict, and that is true for every region of the 
world. If the Council can react early and preventively, it 
should do so. Horizon-scanning is an excellent tool for 
that purpose. The monthly survey by the Department of 
Political Affairs should be used systematically by every 
presidency of the Council.
Finally, if a conflict continues to deteriorate, as in 
the case of Syria, the Council, under the Charter of the 
United Nations, is obliged to act, particularly by halting 
atrocities regardless of who is committing them. I recall 
our firm conviction that in a situation where there are 
allegations of mass atrocities, the permanent members 
of the Council should renounce their right to the veto. 
I  congratulate  France  on  being  willing  to  do  that  on 
condition that the others do the same. Here Switzerland 
holds to its belief that the perpetrators of such atrocities 
must be brought to justice. That is why my country has 
taken  the  initiative  of  sending  a  letter  to  the  Council 
asking it to send the Syrian situation to the International 
Criminal Court, so that a Syrian criminal process that 
is independent, equitable and transparent process could 
be quickly established. 
I  hope 
that 
recommendations,  but  will  also 
the  Security  Council  will  not 
merely  be  listening  to  Member  States’  suggestions 
and 
their 
recommendations  seriously  into  account  and  modify 
its  working  methods  as  a  result.  I  would  be  pleased, 
during the presentation of the Council’s report in 2013, 
to  be  able  to  abandon  my  role  of  Cato  to  play  that  of 
Galileo Galilei and say of the Security Council eppur si 
muove — that it has, in fact, moved.
take 
16 
12-59129
Mr. Osorio (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
first like to discuss agenda item 30, on the annual report 
of the Security Council (A/67/2). I am grateful for the 
convening of this meeting. I would also like to thank the 
Ambassador of India, Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri, for his 
presentation  of  the  report  to  the  Assembly.  Likewise, 
we express our thanks to all members of the Security 
Council  for  their  valuable  contribution  and  support 
in  the  task  that  fell  to  the  delegation  of  Colombia  of 
preparing part of the report before us. The Secretariat 
made a substantive contribution, as always, so we thank 
the staff as well.
The report gives an account of a complex period in 
the international context, with some situations in which 
internal  and  external  factors  limited  Council  action. 
The  loss  of  human  life  we  had  to  face  is  regrettable 
and  deplorable.  Nonetheless,  we  acknowledge  that  in 
several  cases  many  other  lives  were  saved,  including 
where whole peoples were protected and respect for and 
defence  of  fundamental  rights  were  promoted,  while 
institutions  were  strengthened  and  civilians  at  risk 
were protected in countries where peace, stability and 
constitutional order were faltering.
The results during the reporting period show that 
communication  and  constructive  deliberations  are 
irreplaceable  tools  for  the  prevention  and  resolution 
of  conflicts.  We  are  pleased  that  the  dialogue  with 
heads  of  State  and  high-level  representatives  from 
around the world was fluent and active, thanks to their 
participation in high-level Council meetings, and about 
the  missions  carried  out  by  Council  members  so  that 
the destiny of regions such as the Horn of Africa and 
Central Africa could be viewed with greater hope. The 
same can be said of the progress in democratic stability 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Haiti  and  Timor-Leste,  countries  in 
which the United Nations will have to step up efforts 
to  support  their  social  development  and  institutional 
consolidation.
Similarly, 
in  our  opinion,  consultations  and 
understandings within the Council and beyond allowed 
for  progress  in  situations  such  as  that  in  Libya, 
which  was  able  to  begin  the  process  of  transforming 
institutions  and  ensuring  a  democratic  future  for 
its  people.  The  international  community  will  have 
to  be  attentive  to  supporting  its  requirements  for 
strengthening  its  national  capacities,  in  keeping  with 
its sovereign decisions.
Dialogue  was  also  developed  with 
regard 
to  thematic  issues  that  figure  ever  more  on  the 
A/67/PV.38
agenda.  Peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding,  the  rule 
of  law,  cooperation  with  regional  and  subregional 
organizations, conflict prevention, children and armed 
conflict, the protection of civilians, women and peace 
and  security,  and  peacebuilding  were  matters  that 
we  consider  relevant  in  the  work  of  the  Council.  In 
this  regard,  we  remain  convinced  that  we  should  pay 
attention to the criteria for the inclusion, consideration 
and  scope  of  those  thematic  issues  so  that  only  those 
properly  falling  within  the  Council  competence  are 
debated by it.
As I have already mentioned, the question of unity 
in the Council is one and the same as the raison d’être 
of  the  Council.  Without  unity,  paralysis  prevails.  We 
have seen how the lack of unity affects the resolution of 
important issues. Where progress has been made, it was 
thanks  to  unity,  including  when  there  were  different 
opinions,  which  shows  that  this  is  the  only  way  to 
maintain  and  build  international  peace  and  security 
when they are threatened or violated. The Council must 
work further in this area, in the sure knowledge that in 
doing so it will be able to respond more robustly to the 
matters on its agenda.
The  question  of  perfecting  the  working  methods 
of  the  Security  Council  is  a  topic  we  consider  ever 
more necessary. Relations between the Council and the 
General  Assembly  and  broadening  their  cooperation 
are  of  crucial  importance  not  only  because  of  the 
significance  of  the  political  universality  that  the 
Assembly  represents  but  also  because  matters  before 
the Council would benefit from additional perspective 
for  their  consideration  and  effective  solution,  which 
would  lead  to  greater  transparency  and  a  virtuous 
cycle  that  would  benefit  both  Member  States  and  the 
Organization.
Similarly, based on our own experience, we deem it 
advisable that opportunities be provided for an exchange 
of views between the membership of the Organization 
and the country to which falls the responsibility to draft 
the  Council’s  annual  report.  Colombia,  convinced  of 
the usefulness of such exchange, met on 30 July with 
a large number of countries in a public gathering so as 
to hear their suggestions, observations and comments.
The  subsidiary  bodies  and  the  groups  of  experts 
require  more  precise  regulations.  They  frequently 
encounter  difficulties  as  a 
result  of  differing 
interpretations regarding applicable practices.
12-59129
17
A/67/PV.38
To close this topic, I would suggest that the Council 
deepen its dialogue with bodies of the system charged 
with promoting education, science, culture, agriculture, 
education,  health  and  other  concerns  with  a  view  to 
making  its  peacebuilding  actions  more  coherent  with 
the  efforts,  programmes,  plans  and  projects  being 
carried  out  by  those  bodies  in  the  countries  leaving 
the  Council’s  agenda.  In  that  way  the  recurrence  of 
conflicts and situations that led to the involvement of 
the Council can be avoided.
I  will  now  turn  to  agenda  item  117,  regarding 
reform of the Council. 
First,  let  me  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  his  communication  of  9  November 
informing  us  of  the  confirmation  of  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  as  coordinator  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  On  behalf  of  my  Government,  I  wish  to 
congratulate  Ambassador  Tanin  on  his  reappointment 
and to assure him and the President of our intention to 
work at his side and to collaborate to our fullest ability 
to  ensure  that  this  process  maintains  the  momentum 
and  energy  achieved  in  recent  years.  Leadership, 
impartiality and neutrality are qualities of fundamental 
importance  for  building  confidence  among  members 
and  ensuring 
that  consultations  are  productive 
throughout the process.
to 
The Government of Colombia assigns the greatest 
importance 
the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform.  For  several  years  we  have  joined  forces 
with  a  representative  group  of  countries  from  all 
continents  having  a  common  goal:  to  ensure  that  any 
modifications  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
relating  to  the  composition  and  functioning  of  the 
Security Council are the product of general consensus 
acceptable  to  each  and  every  State.  Members  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  have  declared  that  we 
will  work  tirelessly  to  achieve  a  general  agreement, 
which is the only way to achieve a reform that would be 
satisfactory to the international community as a whole. 
As a member of the group, Colombia has a well-known 
position:  we  advocate  the  continuation  of  the  process 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  basis  of  the 
consensus  achieved  in  2008,  as  reflected  in  decision 
62/557.
Experience  has  shown 
that  reform  must  be 
comprehensive,  transparent,  balanced  and  equitable 
and  that  it  must  reflect  the  interests  and  needs  of  all 
Member  States.  Developing  States  must  be  better 
represented in the Security Council. In particular, the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has  acknowledged  on 
several occasions that Africa has a legitimate aspiration 
to seek a more just representation in the Council. The 
group has also shown considerable flexibility and has 
repeatedly stated that it is open to accepting compromise 
solutions. For that reason, following the discussion held 
over the past year in the intergovernmental negotiating 
process,  the  members  of  Uniting  for  Consensus  are 
moving forward with an internal discussion that seeks 
to consider and evaluate the comments made by various 
delegations on our model for reform.
On the other hand, the composition and categories 
of membership are only some of the elements covered 
in  decision  62/557,  which  is  a  package  deal,  to  which 
we attach the greatest importance. We therefore oppose 
attempts to prioritize one or several of those elements to 
the detriment of others as part of initiatives that, while 
they  may  have  been  inspired  by  selfless  motivations, 
represent  in  practice  an  abandonment  of  a  previously 
reached consensus.
We  believe  that  in  the  current  circumstances, 
it  would  be  a  step  in  the  right  direction  for  Member 
States to discuss and agree, under the guidance of the 
Coordinator,  on  a  calendar  of  work  that  would  allow 
us  to  make  progress  in  the  process  in  a  clear  and 
transparent way. In our capacity as a member of Uniting 
for  Consensus,  Colombia  stands  ready  to  participate 
fully in that process.
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  I  would  like  to  join  my 
colleagues  in  thanking  Ambassador  Hardeep  Singh 
Puri  of  India  for  having  introduced  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/67/2)  and  Ambassador  Néstor 
Osorio of Colombia and his team for having compiled 
the report presented today. Having completed the same 
task last year as Security Council President in July, I 
can attest to the arduous work that it entails.
Of  the  numerous  issues  on  the  Council’s  agenda 
over  the  past  year,  the  situation  in  Syria  stands  out. 
Unfortunately, it does so because of what the Council 
did  not  do,  rather  than  what  it  did.  We  deplore  the 
Council’s  failure  to  agree  on  an  effective  common 
approach.  That  has  further  aggravated  the  plight  of 
the Syrian people and it led many in the international 
community and our respective peoples to ask whether 
the  Security  Council  in  its  current  form  is  still  able 
to live up to the responsibilities entrusted to it by the 
Charter of the United Nations.
18 
12-59129
That  has  also  added  to  the  already  growing 
frustration among Member States due to the deadlock 
on Council reform. Last year, in the General Assembly, 
even partial, modest progress was made impossible on 
the  improvement  of  the  Council’s  working  methods, 
which is something we sincerely deplore. Against that 
background,  we  would  have  preferred  two  separate 
debates  to  be  have  been  held,  on  the  annual  report 
and  on  Security  Council  reform,  respectively,  given 
that both issues deserve the undivided attention of the 
General Assembly.
On  9  October, 
the  Ambassadors  of 
the 
Group of Four (G-4) transmitted to the President of the 
General Assembly a letter containing the joint statement 
made by the G-4 Foreign Ministers on the margins of 
the  general  debate.  The  letter  was  also  shared  with 
all  Member  States.  I  therefore  do  not  need  to  repeat 
its  content  in  detail.  Let  me  reiterate,  however,  the 
dedication  of  the  G-4  Foreign  Ministers  to  achieving 
together an early reform of the Security Council. The 
Ministers  also  called  for  a  concrete  outcome  at  the 
present session of the General Assembly and expressed 
their commitment to continue to work towards that end 
in a spirit of flexibility and in close cooperation with 
other Member States. Germany, individually and as part 
of  the  G-4,  stands  ready  to  continue  our  engagement 
with the President of the General Assembly, The chair, 
Ambassador Tanin, and Member States.
The  strong  support  for  genuine  reform  of  the 
Council  —  which  is  what  the  G-4  stands  for  —  was 
again evident during the last round of negotiations. The 
majority of the delegations that took the floor — from 
small and large countries, from the developing and the 
developed world — clearly called for an expansion of 
the Council in both categories, the permanent and the 
non-permanent.
We 
look  forward 
to 
the  resumption  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations as soon as possible. We 
welcome  the  decision  to  reappoint  Ambassador  Tanin 
as chair. We are confident that he will continue to steer 
the process forward in an objective and results-oriented 
manner.
The agenda for the negotiations is clear. The chair 
has  submitted  his  assessment  of  the  process  to  date 
together with a set of constructive proposals on how to 
move the process forward. The proposals were circulated 
by  the  preceding  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  all  Member  States  and  were  acknowledged  by  the 
General Assembly in its oral decision in September (see 
A/67/PV.38
A/66/PV.129). They are now on the table and form an 
integral  part  of  the  negotiation  process.  Let  us  begin 
discussing  those  proposals  and  see  how  we  can  best 
make them operational. We are confident that that will 
help us to finally move towards real negotiations on this 
important matter.
Mr.  Kodama (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
having convened the present plenary meeting to discuss 
Security Council reform, combined with the report of 
the Security Council to the General Assembly (A/67/2). 
Japan highly appreciates the fact that the President of 
the  General  Assembly  has  identified  United  Nations 
reform,  which  includes  Security  Council  reform  and 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  one  of 
his  priorities  during  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  his 
reappointment of Ambassador Zahir Tanin as the chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  sincerely 
hope  that  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
Ambassador  Tanin,  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  will  exercise  legitimate  leadership  in 
guiding  us  to  promote  substantive  and  meaningful 
discussions among Member States.
No  one  doubts  the  necessity  of  Security  Council 
reform.  Various  efforts  have  been  made  to  make  the 
Security  Council  more  representative,  legitimate  and 
effective. It is regrettable, however, that the issue has 
not seen much progress over the decades. Let us recall 
that the 2005 World Summit and its Outcome Document 
(resolution 60/1) set Member States the task of realizing 
early reform of the Security Council. Yet, seven years 
on from the World Summit, we have failed to achieve 
any reform of the Security Council at all. In that regard, 
Japan would like to remind every Member State that we 
have a collective responsibility to translate our political 
leaders’  commitment  into  concrete  Security  Council 
reform.
The present intergovernmental negotiation process 
has  been  ongoing  for  nearly  four  years,  and  we  have 
exhausted  every  conceivable  discussion  pertaining  to 
items  on  the  agenda.  Thanks  to  Ambassador  Tanin’s 
leadership  during  the  last  round  of  negotiations,  we 
have already acquired a clear and deep understanding 
of each group’s position on this issue. And we must note 
that an overwhelming majority of Member States voiced 
support  for  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in 
both categories of membership, the permanent and the 
non-permanent. Now is the time for all Member States 
12-59129
19
A/67/PV.38
to intensify the negotiations with a view to achieving a 
concrete outcome in the next round — the ninth — of 
the intergovernmental negotiations.
At the closing of sixty-sixth session of the General 
Assembly,  we  Member  States  decised  to  roll  over  the 
issue  to  the  current  session  (see  A/66/PV.129),  while 
taking note of the recommendations by the chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations, contained in his letter 
of 25 July. In that regard, Japan believes that in order 
to  have  a  meaningful  and  constructive  negotiation  in 
the next round of intergovernmental negotiations, it is 
important  for  the  negotiation  to  be  conducted  in  line 
with  the  recommendations.  Japan  duly  acknowledges 
those  recommendations  as  “reflections”  of  the  chair, 
who has guided the process forward over the past four 
years.  In  particular,  Japan  believes  that  one  of  his 
recommendations — the drafting of a concise working 
document — should be carried out as a crucial step to 
move  the  process  forward  to  realizing  the  reform.  To 
that end, Japan requests all Member States to engage in 
that important task. Of course, Japan is fully committed 
to contributing to that collective work.
Japan’s commitment has also been demonstrated as 
part of the collective political will of the reform-oriented 
and  results-driven  Group  of  Four  (G-4).  The  G-4 
Foreign  Ministers  met  in  New  York  on  25  September 
and  reiterated  their  determination  to  work  in  close 
cooperation  and  in  a  spirit  of  flexibility  with  other 
Member  States  on  genuine  text-based  negotiations. 
The  Ministers  also  expressed  their  determination  to 
inject  greater  political  momentum  into  the  process, 
including  with  a  view 
to  holding  a  high-level 
meeting  on  Security  Council  reform,  as  stated  in  the 
recommendations of the chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Tanin.  Japan  is  of  the 
view  that  such  a  meeting  should  take  place  in  2013, 
thereby  commemorating  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiation process.
I  shall  now  turn  to  another  agenda  item,  namely, 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
General Assembly. I would like to express my sincere 
appreciation  to  Ambassador  Hardeep  Singh  Puri  of 
India, President of the Security Council this month, for 
his presentation of the report, as well as to Ambassador 
Néstor Osorio of Colombia and his staff for their work 
in preparing the report. Japan reiterates the importance 
of the annual report being improved and submitted to 
the  General  Assembly,  in  keeping  with  presidential 
note S/2010/507. We call for the relevant provisions of 
the note to be followed accordingly. We believe that the 
report not only strengthens relations between these two 
important organs of the United Nations but also plays 
an  important  role  in  ensuring  the  accountability  and 
transparency  of  the  Council.  That  obviously  pertains 
to  improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  is  one  of  the  five  clusters  of  Council 
reform.  In  that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the  holding 
of  the  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  today  and  the 
informal  consultative  meeting  with  non-members  of 
the Security Council on this matter on 30 July.
With  regard  to  the  contents  of  the  annual  report, 
Japan  considers  it  comprehensive  and  descriptive.  It 
comprises  regional  issues  as  well  as  thematic  issues, 
such  as  post-conflict  peacebuilding,  children  and 
armed conflict and some legal issues. It also contains 
information  from  other  meetings,  such  as  informal 
interactive dialogues with non-members, other United 
Nations  organs  and  regional  organizations.  Japan 
commends  the  format  and  description  of  the  report, 
which  enhance  the  clarity  of  the  Council’s  work  in 
the  report  and  will  eventually  further  improve  the 
transparency of the Council. We would have hoped to 
see  the  inclusion  in  the  report  of  greater  background 
information  on  the  events  on  which  the  Council 
worked. We hope that continued efforts will be made 
to  strengthen  the  substantive  aspects  of  the  report, 
including  by  improving  the  monthly  assessments  that 
form  the  basis  of  the  introduction.  At  the  same  time, 
more efforts are needed to make the report even more 
concise.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate once again 
Japan’s firm commitment to exert all efforts to achieve 
a concrete reform outcome during the present session, 
working in close cooperation with the President of the 
General Assembly, Ambassador Tanin and all Member 
States.  I  would  also  like  to  request  that  members  of 
the Security Council continue their efforts in ensuring 
accountability, 
in 
the  Council’s  work.  In  that  regard,  we  commend 
the  contribution  made  by  Portugal  during  the  past 
year  as  the  Chair  of  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation and Other Procedural Questions.
transparency  and  effectiveness 
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands):  Thank  you,  Sir,  for 
giving  me  the  opportunity  to  make  a  short  statement 
on behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Kingdom 
of the Netherlands on the question of Security Council 
reform.
20 
12-59129
A/67/PV.38
First of all, I would like to thank the President of 
the  General  Assembly  for  his  decision  to  reappoint 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation  process.  Belgium  and  the  Netherlands 
applaud that decision and will fully support Ambassador 
Tanin in his continuing efforts to take the discussion to 
the next level, both on process and on content. We call 
upon the membership to adopt the same attitude.
In its meeting of 13 September (see A/66/PV.129), 
the  General  Assembly  took  an  important  step  by 
prolonging  the  mandate  of  the  open-ended  working 
group,  in  particular  by  taking  note  of  the  proposals 
of  the  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  In 
particular,  we  would  like  to  highlight  Ambassador 
Tanin’s recommendation to take what he called the next 
logical step by having a genuine give-and-take based on 
a  concise  working  document.  Ambassador  Tanin  also 
recommended  that  such  a  working  document  should 
be  drafted  by  the  chair,  on  the  basis  of  consultations 
with Member States, in keeping with the membership-
driven  character  of  the  process.  From  the  perspective 
of Belgium and the Netherlands, that recommendation 
could be a sound basis for our further work and mark 
the beginning of the next phase of the negotiations.
Belgium  and  the  Netherlands  are  both  committed 
to  continue  to  support  further  discussion  where  and 
when  possible,  to  keep  up  the  momentum  that  has 
been generated, and to assist the membership to reach 
concrete  results  at  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mission in Somalia and helping Somalia back onto its 
feet;  working  with  the  African  Union  to  encourage 
the Sudan and South Sudan to come to the negotiating 
table; and ensuring that the people of Timor-Leste can 
build sustainable peace. The Assembly has also heard 
of some of its failures this year, foremost among which 
is  Syria.  The  failure  of  the  Security  Council  to  take 
firm  action  to  end  the  violence  in  Syria  underlines 
the  crucial  importance  of  ensuring  that  the  Council 
not  only  represents  the  modern  world  but  is  able  and 
willing to fulfil its core task of maintaining the world’s 
peace and security.
The  United  Kingdom  expresses  its  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Tanin  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  steer  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform over the past year. We welcome his reappointment 
as  chair.  We  appreciate  his  commitment  to  working 
with  all  Member  States  to  make  progress.  While  it  is 
clear that there is not yet sufficient consensus on this 
issue, we are ready to continue working in the coming 
months to find elements upon which wider agreement 
might be found.
Member States will need to approach that task in 
a  spirit  of  compromise.  Security  Council  reform  is  a 
difficult and complex issue. We are all well aware of the 
many  competing  and  strongly  held  views  of  different 
Member States. But we believe that there is sufficient 
common ground on the fundamental need for reform for 
us to be able to move forward in the intergovernmental 
negotiations.
Our position is not based on the wish to achieve a 
specific national objective or defend a specific national 
interest.  What  drives  us  is  the  goal  of  an  effective, 
modernized  and  more  legitimate  Security  Council 
that  reflects  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  which  in  turn  would  also  contribute  to 
a  more  credible  United  Nations  and  a  strengthened 
international system.
The  United  Kingdom’s  position  on  Security 
Council reform is well known. We continue to support 
permanent  membership  for  Brazil,  India,  Germany 
and  Japan  and  permanent  African  representation.  At 
the  same  time,  it  is  our  firm  view  that  reform  must 
not reduce the Council’s ability to act decisively when 
called  upon  to  address  threats  to  international  peace 
and security.
Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 
Kingdom is pleased to make a statement in this annual 
joint  debate  on  the  Security  Council  report  and  the 
question  of  Security  Council  reform.  We  are  grateful 
for  the  efforts  of  our  Colombian  colleagues,  who  so 
meticulously  compiled  this  year’s  report  (A/67/2),  as 
well as for Ambassador Singh Puri’s introduction.
The  Assembly  has  heard  from  the  President  of 
the Security Council some of the achievements of the 
Council in the past year: supporting the African Union 
While  we  have  our  own  view  of  what  Security 
Council  reform  should  look  like,  we  are  open  to 
exploring the ideas of other Member States, if there is 
the possibility of taking a step in the right direction. We 
must all remain ready to seize opportunities to achieve 
consensus.  The  United  Kingdom  is  willing  to  work 
constructively with those who believe that progress is 
possible.
The United Kingdom believes that the Council needs 
to operate in a manner that is as transparent, open and 
12-59129
21
A/67/PV.38
as effective as possible, which is why we continue to be 
at the forefront of efforts to improve Council working 
methods.  We  actively  encourage  greater  interaction 
between  Council  members  during  consultations  and 
support the greater use of technology and social media, 
both to improve the efficiency of what the Council does 
and to open up its workings to a wider global audience.
We shall continue to be unequivocal supporters of 
Security Council reform. I hope that, during the present 
session of the General Assembly, we find the collective 
will to make some progress.
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): Let me 
begin by expressing our appreciation to the Ambassador 
of  India  and  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
introducing the Council’s annual report to the General 
Assembly  (A/67/2).  We  also  commend  Colombia  for 
its  excellent  work  in  writing  the  introduction  and 
compiling  the  report.  We  note  the  Security  Council’s 
efforts  to  present  a  more  concise  document  with 
certain  analytical  elements.  We  encourage  further 
progress along those lines. We also commend the fact 
that  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  continues  to  lead  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. Costa Rica renews its commitment to working 
towards and making a constructive contribution to that 
process.
Throughout 
the  world, 
transparency 
and 
accountability  are  increasingly  becoming  more  than 
mere aspirations. In a positive development, they have 
become  imperatives,  not  only  for  States  but  also  for 
corporations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the  international  community  that  is  gathered  here 
today.  In  honour  of  that  ideal  of  transparency  and  in 
the interest of the effectiveness and representativeness 
of the Organization, the balance of power between the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  needs, 
now more than ever, to be restored, as enshrined in the 
Charter.
According  to  the  Charter,  the  Security  Council 
acts on behalf of all of the Member States and has the 
primary  responsibility  for  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  It  is  therefore  obvious  that  the 
Council must inform the Assembly in a timely manner 
of its actions, or lack thereof, so that all Member States 
have the chance to exercise the necessary control and, 
should  the  need  arise,  take  any  corrective  measures 
called for.
That is why it is important that the annual reports 
of the Council not be limited to retrospective accounts 
of actions taken, as is the case with the document that 
we  have  before  us  today.  Such  documents  should  be 
more  analytical,  and  they  should  include  projections. 
They should take a more self-critical stance, and they 
should  include  an  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of 
measures taken by the Council and the positions taken 
by  its  members  in  adopting  them,  as  well  as  lessons 
learned,  challenges  and  possible  future  strategies. 
In  other  words,  they  should  transmit  a  larger,  more 
transparent and more useful exercise in accountability.
To  that  effect,  we  call  for  the  Security  Council 
to  present  special  reports  to  the  General  Assembly, 
in  accordance  with  paragraph  3  of  Article  24  of  the 
Charter,  each  time  the  Council  decides  to  establish  a 
new peacekeeping operation, substantially modifies an 
operation’s mandate or creates a new set of sanctions. 
We  also  believe  that  the  Security  Council  should 
present a report to the General Assembly each time a 
resolution  is  vetoed  and  that  the  permanent  members 
that  exercised  the  veto  should  explain  to  the  entire 
membership the reasons behind their decision.
That  last  point  is  particularly  relevant  in  the 
current global political climate, in which the promotion 
and  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  is  paramount  to 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  as  was 
evident in the Security Council’s debate of 17 October 
(see  S/PV.6849).  In 
information  and 
accountability, we must strive to garner the necessary 
political  willingness  to  achieve  fluid,  efficient  and 
comprehensive communication among all of the actors 
in the United Nations. The legitimacy and effectiveness 
of the multilateral system depends in large part on such 
communication.
the  era  of 
Security Council reform should be an opportunity 
to transform the United Nations into a more effective 
and representative Organization. Reform should drive 
sound and balanced decisions, in which we can all feel 
that we are the partners and sponsors. Reform should 
strive  to  improve  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations 
to  respond  effectively  and  legitimately  to  threats  to 
international peace and security. It cannot and should 
not  be  a  mechanism  for  favouring  some  States  over 
others  that  are  equally  sovereign.  It  should  be  an 
exercise in flexibility, commitment and the search for 
improved  representativeness.  For  that  reason,  we  do 
not  consider  it  appropriate  to  increase  the  number  of 
permanent  members.  We  lean  towards  an  increase  in 
22 
12-59129
the  non-permanent  category,  with  longer  terms  and 
the  possibility  of  re-election.  That  is,  in  essence,  the 
position of the Uniting for Consensus group, to which 
we belong.
For  Costa  Rica,  reform  should  also 
include 
regulation,  limitation  and  the  eventual  elimination  of 
the veto power — a privilege that has often paralysed 
the  Council  and  has  contributed  substantially  to 
undermining 
in  cases 
involving  heinous  crimes  against  humanity.  We  note 
and welcome the growing awareness in the international 
community with regard to that subject. 
legitimacy,  especially 
its 
Costa  Rica  also  considers  it  indispensable  to 
permanently  improve  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods.  Such  a  procedural  improvement  should 
not  be  conditional  on  a  comprehensive  reform.  On 
the  contrary,  such  improvement  should  be  a  constant 
responsibility,  above  all  the  reponsibility  of  the  five 
permanent  Council  members  but  also  of  its  elected 
members and all States Members of the United Nations.
More frequent and higher-quality reports, improved 
transparency, 
timely  accountability,  more  equal 
distribution of internal responsibilities and basic limits 
on the use of the veto are among the improvements in 
working methods that should be relentlessly pursued. In 
our national capacity, as a member of the group of five 
small  nations  and  in  partnership  with  other  Member 
States, we will continue to work constructively towards 
those goals.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  The  question  of  Security  Council  reform 
is  central  to  the  general  reform  agenda  of  our  global 
Organization.  That  particular  reform  deals  with  one 
of  Organization’s  principal  bodies,  which,  according 
to the Charter, bears the primary responsibility for the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
decision  taken  in  the  matter  will,  to  a  great  extent, 
determine  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  both  the 
Council  and  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole  for  the 
foreseeable future. 
Discussions  on 
that  extraordinarily  sensitive 
issue  have  been  taking  place  within  an  extremely 
complex  and  difficult  framework.  During  the  eight 
rounds of intergovernmental negotiations so far it has 
been possible to make some progress, but a universal 
decision that would satisfy all or at least the majority 
of Member States is, so far, not in sight. Russia favours 
making  the  Security  Council  more  representative. 
A/67/PV.38
However, efforts towards that end must not impede the 
ability of the Council to respond effectively and quickly 
to challenges as they arise. That is particularly relevant 
now,  when  we  are  witnessing  an  increase  in  conflict 
situations.  It  is  obvious  that,  unless  we  preserve  the 
compact nature of the Council, it will not be possible to 
guarantee the speed of its reactions. The membership 
of  that  body  should  not  exceed  slightly  more  than  20 
members. 
We  favour  further  improvement  of  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  We  maintain  our 
fundamental  position,  namely,  that  the  Council  is  the 
master of its own working methods. We are convinced 
that  work  on  this  matter  must  be  carried  out  in  an 
atmosphere  of  transparency,  taking  into  account  the 
views  of  Member  States  and  with  the  understanding 
that a reasonable balance must be maintained between 
transparency and effectiveness. Attempts to dismantle 
the  reform  package  reflected  in  decision  62/557  are 
inadmissible.  In  any  case,  our  priority  is  to  enhance 
the  ability  of  the  Security  Council  to  implement  its 
prerogatives  under  the  Charter  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
that  seek 
the 
prerogatives of the present permanent members of the 
Security  Council,  including  the  historical  institution 
of  the  veto,  are  unacceptable.  It  should  be  recalled 
that  that  mechanism  is  a  most  important  instrument 
and a stimulus for Council members in their search for 
balanced decisions. Encroaching on that right would be 
an extremely rash step. 
impinge  on 
For  us, 
ideas 
to 
the  Security  Council  and 
We  support  initiatives  to  step  up  the  interaction 
between 
the  General 
Assembly.  We  should  not  pull  too  tightly  on  the  cord 
that links those two major organs, but rather focus on 
the  areas  in  which  real  cooperation  between  them  is 
not only possible, but indispensable. There are quite a 
few such areas. For example, let us take such relevant 
issues today as enhancing the effectiveness of United 
Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  There  is 
room there for joint activity and for taking decisions in 
the sphere of mediation to deal with problems facing the 
United Nations. The Security Council and the General 
Assembly  can  both  make  substantive  contributions 
in  that  regard.  The  most  important  thing  is  for  the 
cooperation between them to be conducted on the basis 
of  respect  for  their  existing  prerogatives.  To  a  great 
extent, that will determine the success of the reform. 
12-59129
23
A/67/PV.38
We  are  convinced  that  the  question  of  Security 
Council  reform  cannot  be  resolved  arithmetically 
simply by putting various models to a vote subject to 
the minimum required two-thirds vote of the members 
of  the  General  Assembly.  A  result  achieved  that  way 
would  hardly  enhance  the  authority  of  the  Security 
Council  and  would  not  serve  to  strengthen  the  world 
Organization.  We  also  have  doubts  regarding  the 
practice  of  establishing  specific  groups  of  States  or 
associations of countries that try at any cost to expand 
their base of support for initiatives that they have put 
forward or, even more dangerously, to artificially force 
their implementation. 
In  that  regard,  we  fully  support  what  has  been 
said here many times from this rostrum, namely, that 
the  formula  for  Security  Council  reform  must  enjoy 
maximally  broad  support  from  the  Members  of  the 
Organization. If it is not possible to achieve consensus 
here,  then  in  any  case  it  is  politically  imperative  to 
guarantee the support of a significantly larger number 
of Member States than the legally required two-thirds 
majority of votes in the General Assembly.
We are ready to consider any reasonable option for 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
We  cannot  fail  to  recognize  the  existence  of  strong 
claims to permanent seats in the Security Council, but 
their  number,  as  announced  so  far,  already  exceeds 
the  maximum  possible  seats  that  have  been  proposed 
during the intergovernmental negotiations. What is also 
unclear  is  the  algorithm  for  determining  the  number 
of  specific  possible  permanent  member  countries  in 
the event that a significant decision is adopted on the 
expansion of members of the Council in both categories. 
A solution to such a difficult headache could be, in our 
view,  an  interim  compromise  decision,  which  could  
satisfy the ambitions of the influential members of the 
international community who are trying to play a more 
active role in the Security Council and would not lead 
to a split in the General Assembly. 
In  any  case,  the  most  important  thing  is  for  the 
decision to be based on the broadest possible agreement 
within  the  United  Nations.  In  the  light  of  the  above, 
we believe it would be useful to devote the next round 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  a  comparative 
analysis  of  the  advantages  of  the  basic  formulas  for 
Council reform and also to the problems linked to them. 
That would assist us in having a clearer view of all of 
the consequences of the implementation of the various 
models of reform. 
So  far,  the  course  of  the  negotiations  so  far  does 
not make it possible to say that we have come closer to 
working out a universal formula for Security Council 
reform that might enjoy maximum broad support. We 
see  no  alternative  to  continuing  the  painstaking  work 
of  bringing  the  negotiating  parties  closer  together. 
We  believe  that  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  coordinator  of  the  negotiations,  the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, will provide assistance 
in the negotiations, on the understanding that ownership 
of  that  process  remains  with  the  Member  States 
themselves.  We  are  convinced  that  the  work  must  be 
conducted in a calm, transparent and inclusive manner, 
without imposing any kind of artificial time frames. 
In conclusion, I would like, once again, to emphasize 
that progress and reform of the Security Council hinges 
solely on the political will of Member States and their 
readiness to achieve a reasonable compromise. 
Mr. Sparber (Liechtenstein): Our collective failure 
to reform the Security Council is the single biggest piece 
of unfinished business. We have established a Human 
Rights Council and made it, over time, into the effective 
body  it  is  today.  We  have  created  a  Peacebuilding 
Commission, which, in spite of its weaknesses, fills a 
gap that existed in the institutional architecture of the 
United Nations. We have even made significant progress 
with respect to the implementation of the responsibility 
to protect, much as there is left to do in that regard. On 
Security  Council  reform,  however,  tangible  progress 
remains  elusive,  let  alone  the  comprehensive  reform 
that we all agreed on over seven years ago. 
Nobody  underestimates  the  magnitude  of  the 
challenge we are facing, and there are good explanations 
as  to  why  we  have  so  far  been  unsuccessful.  But  the 
moment has long arrived when we have to ask ourselves 
whether we are indeed trying or just pretending to try. 
Most  of  the  time,  the  latter  seems  the  case,  and  we 
then must wonder whom we are trying to fool. We, as 
Member States, certainly know full well that the current 
process is not a genuine negotiation that can lead to a 
result.  And,  in  fact,  we  all  know  that  consensus  with 
respect  to  Council  reform  can  only  mean  very  strong 
majorities that are also conducive to implementing the 
results  —  in  the  case  of  enlargement,  a  ratification 
process  —  but  not  necessarily  unanimity.  Let  us 
face reality. For some — for too many, indeed — the 
commitment to reform has essentially been lip service. 
The  discussions  on  draft  resolution  A/66/L.42/Rev.2, 
24 
12-59129
which  we  submitted  last  session  (see  A/66/PV.50) 
together  with  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Singapore  and 
Switzerland, starkly illustrated that fact.
that 
We  hope 
this  session  will  bring  about 
different  approaches  and  bolder  attempts  to  advance 
the  discussions.  That  would  entail  a  more  in-depth 
exploration  of  what  has  been  called  the  intermediate 
model.  As  is  well  known,  we  put  one  such  model 
forward ourselves, but given that some quite different 
notions  have  also  been  included  under  that  heading, 
we have given it a new name that makes clear what the 
model actually is. It is an enlargement model that would 
create  a  new  category  of  seats:  long-term,  renewable 
seats.  States  could  thus  serve  de  facto  permanently 
on  the  Council,  if  re-elected,  without  the  power  of 
the  veto.  Six  such  new  seats  would  be  added,  either 
combined with a number of new non-permanent seats 
or not, which would bring the total number of Council 
members  to  21.  That  new  composition  would  be 
subject to a review after 20 years, which would include 
questions such as the creation of new permanent seats, 
the  exercise  of  the  veto  and  other  key  aspects  of  the 
Council’s  work.  That  enlargement  model  has  been  on 
the table for quite some time, and we would be happy 
to engage in a substantive discussion on its parameters 
and in particular to compare it with other models that 
are currently presented as intermediate.
As  important  as  enlargement  is,  there  can  clearly 
be no genuine reform of the Council without measures 
to  make  its  work  more  transparent,  accountable  and 
legitimate.  The  consensus  at  the  2005  World  Summit 
confirmed  that  understanding  and  gave  all  of  us 
ownership over it. But we have failed to live up to that 
commitment. The two presidential notes adopted by the 
Council  under  the  reference  number  507  (S/2006/507 
and S/2010/507) are a disappointing record of progress, 
in  particular  as  the  limited  measures  in  those  two 
documents have been inconsistently implemented and, 
depending  on  who  dictates  the  flavour  of  the  month 
in  the  Council,  at  times  ignored.  The  circumstances 
under  which  the  group  of  five  small  nations  had  to 
withdraw  draft  resolution  A/66/L.42/Rev.2  at  the  last 
session of the Assembly speaks volumes about the lack 
of accountability that the draft resolution was trying to 
address. We are grateful for the strong support we were 
given in that effort and are committed to continuing our 
work  to  that  end.  Working  methods  are  as  important 
as  enlargement,  probably  even  more  so,  in  order  to 
genuinely make the Security Council a better organ.
A/67/PV.38
What  is  more,  we  strongly  believe  that  reform  of 
the  working  methods  is  indispensable  if  there  is  to 
be  an  agreement  on  any  possible  enlargement  model. 
There is not even a remote possibility of creating new 
veto  powers  —  and  Liechtenstein  would  not  support 
such a proposal — or of eliminating the existing vetoes. 
In such a situation, at the least a very modest agreement 
on  the  use  of  the  veto  will  be  indispensable  in  order 
to  move  the  enlargement  effort  forward.  Ideally,  that 
would precede an agreement on enlargement. Changes 
in  the  current  practice  of  the  use  of  the  veto  are  an 
urgent  imperative,  as  we  have  been  reminded  all  too 
often in recent months.
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  We  commend  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  Mr.  Hardeep  Singh  Puri,  Permanent 
Representative  of  India,  for  presenting  the  annual 
report  of  the  Council  (A/67/2)  and  the  delegation  of 
Colombia, under the leadership of Ambassador Néstor 
Osorio, for preparing it.
In  October  2010,  the  General  Assembly  elected 
and  mandated  South  Africa  to  serve  as  an  elected 
member of the Security Council. Cognizant of the high 
responsibility that had been bestowed upon us, we have 
carried  out  that  honourable  task.  As  our  term  on  the 
Security Council draws to an end, we come here today 
to report to the Member States that elected us to that 
body and to account and reflect on our contribution to 
and assessment of the work of the Security Council.
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
my  delegation  was  acutely  aware  of  the  limitations 
that come with being a non-permanent member of that 
body,  but  we  were  determined  to  play  a  meaningful 
and active role in its affairs. In our experience, elected 
members  of  the  Council  are  confronted  by  numerous 
constraints  that  result  from  the  dominance,  in  the 
current  configuration,  of  the  non-elected  permanent 
members.  That  dominance  is  experienced  at  the  very 
start of one’s tenure, when the five permanent members 
allocate 
the  chairmanships  of  subsidiary  bodies 
without  themselves  chairing  any  and  with  little  or  no 
consultation  with  the  members  concerned.  It  further 
permeates the daily work of the Council, as three of the 
permanent members are the penholders on almost every 
country-specific mandate on the Council’s agenda. In 
addition, the resolutions or decisions of the Council are 
often  drafted  in  small  groups  and  presented  as  a  fait 
accompli  to  the  elected  members.  We  support  broad 
12-59129
25
A/67/PV.38
consultation by the Council, but its decisions should be 
open to debate among all its members.
Despite those limitations, we believe that we have 
delivered  on  the  mandate  given  to  us  by  that  body, 
our  subregion,  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community,  and  the  African  continent.  South  Africa 
used  its  comparative  advantage,  derived  from  our 
experience during our first tenure on the Council and 
our history of having been on the Council’s agenda. In 
addition, our active work in peacemaking, peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding  on  the  continent  of  Africa  and 
beyond  has  equipped  us  to  participate  actively  in  the 
deliberations of the Council. We maintain that elected 
members often come to the Council with the necessary 
expertise and knowledge to provide benefits to its work.
The  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  before 
us indicates the many areas where the Council remains 
engaged  in  resolving  conflicts  all  over  the  world, 
particularly  in  Africa.  The  transitions  from  conflict 
to peace in countries such as Somalia, the Sudan and 
Timor-Leste are testimony to what the Security Council 
can achieve when it assumes its Charter responsibilities. 
We  are  pleased  that,  during  the  reporting  period,  the 
Council  has  also  stimulated  constructive  debates  on 
key global issues, such as peacebuilding, the protection 
of civilians, women, peace and security, and children 
and armed conflict.
South  Africa  is  particularly  pleased  with  the 
enhanced strategic cooperation between the Peace and 
Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  (AU)  and  the 
Security Council. In that regard, South Africa piloted 
the  adoption  of  resolution  2033  (2012),  which  was 
adopted during its presidency of the Security Council 
in  January  of  this  year  and  builds  on  resolution  1809 
(2008),  which  was  adopted  during  its  presidency  in 
April 2008. The aims of those resolutions are to promote 
greater strategic coordination between the two bodies, 
to  secure  predictable  and  sustainable  funding  for  AU 
peacekeeping  operations  and  to  support  post-conflict 
reconstruction and development on the continent.
The positive impact of that strategic coordination 
is evidenced by the subsequent adoption of resolution 
2046 (2012) on the Sudan and South Sudan, in which the 
AU Peace and Security Council road map for dealing 
with the outstanding Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
(CPA)  and  post-secession  issues  was  endorsed  by  the 
Security  Council.  The  ongoing  consultations  between 
the  Council  and  the  AU  High-level  Implementation 
Panel,  which  is  playing  a  leadership  role  in  resolving 
post-CPA issues, continue to benefit the Council as it 
addresses  those  matters.  That  strategic  coordination 
was rewarded when the two parties, which were almost 
on the brink of war, signed a cooperation agreement on 
27 September that dealt with all outstanding issues.
With regard to Somalia, we recall the meeting of the 
Security Council on 11 January, under South Africa’s 
presidency of the Council, in which the President of the 
AU  Peace  and  Security  Council  participated,  as  well 
as States members of the Intergovernmental Authority 
on  Development,  culminating  in  the  adoption  of 
resolution 2036 (2012), which authorized an increase in 
the troop levels of the African Union Military Observer 
Mission 
landmark 
resolution and the increase in AMISOM’s troop levels 
severely disrupted Al-Shabaab, thus creating a security 
environment conducive to ending the political transition 
phase in Somalia and culminating in the recent election 
of the new President and Cabinet.
in  Somalia  (AMISOM).  That 
South Africa is pleased that the annual consultations 
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  AU  Peace  and 
Security  Council  have  become  more  structured  and 
effective. In that regard, we are of the view that greater 
strategic coordination between the United Nations and 
the AU will enhance the effectiveness of the Security 
Council in addressing challenges to peace and security 
on the continent of Africa. We are confident that that 
continued  cooperation  and  unity  between  the  two 
Councils could be of immense benefit in addressing the 
challenges that we face in the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo,  Guinea-Bissau,  Mali  and  the  wider  Sahel 
region.
Despite those positive developments, my delegation 
remains concerned about the tendency in certain cases 
where the Security Council is selective in picking those 
elements of decisions taken by regional organizations 
that  advance  the  national  interest  of  some  members. 
Such  selectivity  and  double  standards  were  visibly 
demonstrated  when  the  AU’s  road  map  for  Libya 
was  undermined  and  ignored  by  the  implementers  of 
resolution  1973  (2011).  Furthermore,  the  views  of  the 
League of Arab States on the Palestinian question have 
been  conveniently  ignored,  while  its  views  on  Libya 
and Syria have been fully endorsed. It is important that 
the principle of subsidiarity be respected, if we are to 
establish  better  synergies  in  enhancing  cooperation, 
especially on the African continent. We therefore call 
for  greater  consistency  on  the  part  of  the  Council  in 
engaging with regional bodies.
26 
12-59129
We remain concerned that the Security Council has 
not succeeded in bringing about any positive change in 
the situation between Israel and Palestine. The failure 
of  the  Council  to  find  a  lasting  solution  to  that  crisis 
has  denied  the  hopes  of  millions  of  Palestinians  and 
Israelis. We also regret that the Council has delegated 
its  responsibility  to  the  Quartet,  which  has  been 
moribund  in  its  handling  of  that  issue.  South  Africa 
is  most  disappointed  that  the  Security  Council  could 
not  reach  consensus  on  supporting  Palestine’s  bid  for 
membership  of  the  General  Assembly  or  on  visiting 
Palestine.  In  our  view,  the  Council’s  failure  to  act  on 
that  matter  contributes  to  the  continued  instability  in 
the  region,  thereby  giving  rise  to  the  tragic  events  of 
the past few days in Gaza that we all have witnessed.
We  remain  convinced  that  the  credibility  of  the 
Security Council will continue to be challenged as long 
as the human rights of Palestinians and the people of the 
Western Sahara are ignored, which has been the case 
for decades. That harms the credibility of the Council 
as a guardian of international peace and security.
individual  Member  States, 
The  past  year  has  seen  more  improvement  of  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council.  An  encouraging 
development  has  been  the  use  of  informal  interactive 
dialogues,  which  has  allowed  the  Council  to  interact 
informally  with 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  subregional  and 
regional  organizations.  A  further  improvement  in  the 
Council’s  working  methods  can  be  seen  in  the  fact 
that elected members have been designated to serve as 
penholders, as with Germany on Afghanistan and South 
Africa on Timor-Leste, and have also become leaders 
or  co-leaders  during  Security  Council  missions  to 
countries on the Council’s agenda. Under Portugal’s able 
chairmanship,  the  Working  Group  on  Documentation 
and Other Procedural Questions has actively promoted 
greater  transparency  and  efficiency  in  the  Council’s 
work.  Addressing  such  issues  —  penholders,  the 
chairing  of  subsidiary  bodies,  the  preparation  of  the 
annual  report  and  monthly  assessments  —  has  led  to 
modest  but  meaningful  steps  towards  improving  the 
Council’s work.
We  welcome  such  positive  developments  and 
encourage the Security Council to defend the significant 
advances  made  and  to  pursue  further  improvements. 
However, we reiterate the view that cosmetic changes 
to the working methods are not an adequate response 
to the need for fundamental reform of the Council and 
A/67/PV.38
expansion of its membership in both the permanent and 
the non-permanent categories.
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  remains  one  of 
the  most  urgent  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations 
today.  We  welcome  the  President’s  promise  to  assist 
Member  States  in  working  towards  the  revitalization 
of the General Assembly, including through the reform 
process.  We  hope  that  reform  process  will  not  be 
treated as merely one of many issues for consideration 
but that it will be seen in the way that the vast majority 
of  Member  States  see  it,  namely,  a  priority  whose 
urgency cannot be overstated. We wish to express our 
pleasure  at  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
as facilitator of the intergovernmental negotiations. We 
have confidence in his leadership, and we assure him 
and the President of the Assembly of our full support as 
we try to make progress in the negotiations.
in  order 
in  need  of  a  breakthrough 
After  many  a  high  and  low,  we  find  ourselves 
today 
to 
recapture  the  momentum  of  2009  and  reinvigorate 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  My  delegation 
is  concerned  about  the  fact  that,  since  the  launch  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  February  2009,  we 
have relapsed into the open-ended working group mode 
of restating positions. We are convinced that the current 
text  before  us,  while  a  useful  reference  document  for 
the  positions  of  Member  States  and  groups  of  States, 
cannot help nudge us towards concrete results. What is 
needed is a process or initiative that can lead towards 
convergence.  We  believe  that  the  various  exchanges 
in  the  eighth  round  of  negotiations  have  highlighted 
areas  where  convergences  and  compromises  may  lie, 
and that, in the main, the majority of States and groups 
of States are calling for expansion in both categories. 
The African Group and the group associated with draft 
resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.2, to which we belong, share 
that view.
The call for expansion in both categories is based on 
our belief that the fundamental objective of the reform 
is to ensure that the Council, consistent with the Charter 
values of universalism, collective responsibility, fairness 
and  equity,  is  broadly  representative  and  reflects  the 
current  state  of  world  affairs.  Those  values  would  be 
inconsistent  with  a  Security  Council  in  which  Africa 
remained  unrepresented  in  the  permanent  category. 
In  that  regard,  we  call  on  the  facilitator  to  produce  a 
shorter text based on the positions of the overwhelming 
majority  of  Member  States.  We  would  encourage  the 
12-59129
27
A/67/PV.38
facilitator to be guided, in producing that text, by his 
own  assessment  that  expansion  in  both  categories 
enjoys the support of the majority of Member States.
Discussions on the reform of the Security Council 
have gone on much too long. Now is the time to show 
that we are all committed to giving effect to the call of 
our leaders in the 2005 World Summit final document 
(resolution  60/1)  for  fundamental  reform.  It  is  our 
collective responsibility to conclude those negotiations 
in a just and expeditious manner.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  express 
my appreciation to the President for convening today’s 
meeting to further elaborate on and take stock of what 
we have achieved in the eight rounds of discussions on 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council.  Malaysia 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.  I  would  like  to  limit  my  statement  to 
discussing the issue of reform of the Security Council, 
which  appears  as  agenda  item  117  in  the  Assembly’s 
programme of work.
We  term  the  discussions  a  negotiating  process, 
but we all know that what we are dealing with are not 
negotiations as we normally conduct them at the United 
Nations.  No  negotiations  have  actually  been  carried 
out. We have had statement-reading sessions, but hardly 
constitutes  a  negotiating  process.  We  nonetheless 
continue to meet, although deep down we may quietly 
admit  that  the  process  is  substantially  where  it  was 
20 years ago. The eight meetings we have had on the 
issues of the Security Council’s working methods and 
its expansion have brought us no closer to a reformed 
Council. In some ways, in fact, we have drifted further 
apart than we were 20 years ago. We have groups and 
Member States that have openly stated that they want 
the  Council  to  be  expanded  and  its  working  methods 
improved,  but  we  now  see  bilateral  and  regional 
rivalries  coming  into  play.  We  cannot  even  agree  on 
what an expanded Security Council should look like.
That was evident last year, when a draft resolution 
of  one  operative  paragraph  that  sought  to  expand  the 
membership of the Security Council, a subject on which 
all  Member  States  claimed  to  agree,  did  not  even  see 
the light of day in the Assembly (A/66/L.42/Rev.2). The 
whole thing has become a zero-sum game. The opinion 
seems to be: “If I cannot make it into the Council, that 
other Member State should not be allowed to become 
a  permanent  member”.  I  hear  subtle  voices  saying, 
in  effect,  “Let  us  prolong  these  discussions  without 
reaching any decision, as I stand to lose if country X 
becomes a permanent member”. Then we hear the same 
voices  asking  why  the  reform  process  is  slow.  I  am 
amazed and puzzled.
Most  Member  States  profess  to  want  a  more 
transparent, inclusive and engaging Security Council. 
Almost all present here today would agree that the veto 
power  is,  without  a  doubt,  undemocratic  and  morally 
unjustified.  The  irony  is  that,  while  we  claim  to  be 
champions of democracy worldwide, some of us prefer 
an authoritarian model when it comes to the work of the 
Security Council. We have also heard suggestions that, 
while the veto is bad, new permanent members should 
not be denied the right to such powers. We have heard 
a  lot  of  hype  about  improving  the  Council’s  working 
methods,  but  when  we  met  in  this  Hall  last  May,  we 
were  told  that  the  draft  resolution  on  the  subject  had 
been withdrawn (see A/66/PV.108).
Let us ask ourselves: Are we really serious about 
wanting Security Council reform, or do we just want to 
seem politically correct, which is why we continue to 
mislead the world by claiming that we want reform of 
that important organ of the United Nations? It is time 
for  us  to  re-examine  our  real  intentions  and  to  work 
positively  to  help  the  process  move  forward.  In  that 
connection,  for  example,  while  we  complain  that  the 
United Nations asks too much from Member States for 
the financing of its operations, we, the Member States, 
are  sometimes  to  blame  for  higher  operational  costs. 
The  20-year  discussion  of  Security  Council  reform, 
to which there seems to be no end, is a clear example 
of  how  we  have  contributed  to  an  increase  in  United 
Nations operating costs.
Where  do  we  go  from  here?  We  can  continue  to 
pretend  that  we  are  in  a  negotiating  process.  We  can 
meet once every two or three months to read statements 
prepared only so as to announce our individual views, 
and in the process we might ridicule the ideas of other 
parties.  We  can  continue  to  take  an  all-or-nothing 
approach,  as  has  been  done  for  20  years.  We  can 
also  continue  to  intimidate  smaller  countries  in  the 
discussions  and  then  to  claim  that  all  Member  States 
have equal rights in this most democratic Assembly. To 
be  politically  correct,  we  should  also  continue  telling 
the world that we want to reform the Security Council, 
even though deep down we know that is not what we 
actually  want,  and  that  we  will  take  every  possible 
step  —  political,  legal  and  technical  —  to  stall  the 
28 
12-59129
A/67/PV.38
whole  process  and  then  blame  other  parties  for  their 
being inflexible.
By the way, the word “flexibility” has taken on a 
new meaning in our discussions. It effectively means: 
“You should agree with what I said and abandon your 
position”. We can all agree that such shortcomings are 
making it much more difficult for any forward motion in 
the process to be achieved by Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Afghanistan  and  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on 
the  equitable  representation  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
other matters related to the Council. While I mention 
him, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Tanin on his 
reappointment as chair.
In closing, I reiterate that we should start genuine 
negotiations,  with  a  workable  text  and  reasonable 
timelines  for  the  process  to  conclude.  We  have  tried 
compilation  texts  in  the  past.  That  did  not  get  us 
anywhere.  It  is  time  for  all  of  us  —  especially  the 
majority  of  members  who  currently  have  little  or  no 
say  at  all  in  matters  related  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security — to drop the all-or-
nothing approach, and to not only talk about flexibility 
but prove that we possess it. Those of us who are part of 
that majority stand to lose in the current stalemate. We 
can continue in what is a political charade of the highest 
order, or we can choose to start real negotiations, with 
a  reasonable  timeline  for  their  conclusion.  Until  such 
time, we have only ourselves to blame for our inability 
to  play  a  more  meaningful  role  in  the  work  of  the 
Security Council. 
Malaysia sincerely hopes that we will achieve some 
progress as we continue to deliberate on that important 
issue during the current session of the General Assembly. 
Otherwise, we will just keep repeating ourselves.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
12-59129
29
