United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
26th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 17 October 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.26
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
towards reinvigorating and supporting the activities of 
the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda items 63 and 13 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/204) 
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/205) 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Mrs. Ezeigwe (Nigeria): Let me begin by thanking 
the Secretary-General for presenting the two insightful 
reports  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205)  on  which  we  are 
having  this  debate.  My  delegation  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  made  earlier  by  the  representative  of 
Cameroon on behalf of the Group of African States (see 
A/67/PV.25).
We  commend  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Maged 
Abdelaziz as Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on Africa, and consider the appointment as a proper step 
The reports under consideration address a number 
of  subjects  relating  to  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
continent,  including  areas  where  significant  progress 
could  be  made  by  the  African  people.  They  also 
highlight a number of policy measures taken by many 
African  countries  and  organizations  regarding  the 
implementation of the priorities of the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  the  responses  of 
the international community and the support provided 
by the United Nations system in the past year.
My delegation notes that, despite those challenges, 
African  countries  have  made  significant  progress 
in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  sectoral  priorities, 
especially  in  the  areas  of  governance,  infrastructure, 
information  and  communications 
technology  and 
agriculture. We are encouraged by the progress reports 
on the support provided by the United Nations system in 
strengthening  the  Regional  Coordination  Mechanism 
of  United  Nations  agencies  and  entities  working  to 
support  the  African  Union  and  its  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  and  its  cluster  system.  We 
equally note the progress made in the area of capacity-
building  through  the  United  Nations-African  Union 
secretariat of the Regional Coordination Mechanism’s 
business cluster plans.
With regard to those issues that have been singled 
out  as  areas  where  actions  have  been  taken  aimed  at 
realizing  the  goals  of  NEPAD,  we  wish  to  restate  the 
need for more investments in agriculture, food security 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-55308 (E)
*1255308*
A/67/PV.26
and health. That is because one of the key sectors that 
requires  synergies  of  actions  by  the  African  countries 
and  their  partners  is  the  development  of  agriculture 
and  food  security.  As  indicated  in  the  reports  of 
the  Secretary-General,  Africa’s  share  of  the  global 
agriculture  market  is  extremely  low  and  has  further 
decreased in recent years.
In  addition,  some  aspects  of  the  report  highlight 
the  importance  of  agriculture  and  food  security  for 
the  development  of  the  continent.  In  a  continuously 
interdependent  global  environment,  we  wish 
to 
emphasize  the  need  for  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments  made  by  development  partners,  which 
could  further  assist  African  countries  to  overcome 
development challenges and facilitate the attainment of 
the Millennium Development Goals.
In  that  regard,  we  join  the  Secretary-General  in 
calling on Africa’s development partners to deliver on 
the commitments made regarding Africa’s development 
needs,  including  those  concerning  the  implementation 
of  NEPAD  priorities,  in  order  to  fulfil  their  promises 
and implement their commitments. We also call on the 
Group  of  Eight  countries  to  fulfil  the  commitments 
made  to  Africa  at  the  2005  Gleneagles  summit.  We 
especially call for the fulfilment of the commitments in 
the  areas  of  agricultural  funding  and  development,  as 
stressed in the report.
The New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition, 
launched  early  this  year,  aims  to  support  50  million 
people and to assist them to move out of poverty within 
10 years, in particular by mobilizing private capital for 
Africa’s  agriculture  and  by  scaling  up  investment  and 
technology  to  enhance  agricultural  productivity.  We 
believe that that initiative could also serve as a model 
for  cooperation  and  engagement  between  Africa  and 
the rest of the world.
One  challenge  to  development  on  the  African 
continent  has  been  the  numerous  conf licts  and  crises 
in various regions. We commend the discussion in the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  issues  relating  to  the 
causes  of  conf lict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  We  agree  that 
the systematic exclusion of significant parts of society 
from  the  institutions  of  political  governance  and  key 
economic assets and social services is one of the causes 
of  conf lict  on  the  continent.  We  also  appreciate  the 
focus  of  this  year’s  report  on  the  larger  issues  of  the 
management of diversity and the urgent need to address 
the related challenges to peace, stability and sustainable 
development.
My delegation remains concerned about the report’s 
discussion  of  arms  proliferation,  which  aggravates 
long-standing conf licts and induces terrorist activities 
in  some  parts  of  the  continent.  It  is  more  worrisome 
that  criminal  groups  in  some  regions  have  taken 
the  opportunity  to  increase  recruitment  and  create 
local  support  networks  for  gathering  information  and 
supplying  arms  and  ammunition,  thereby  facilitating 
transnational organized crime.
In  that  connection,  let  me  take  this  opportunity 
to  commend  the  efforts  of  Member  States,  which 
worked assiduously last month to work out the outcome 
document of the second United Nations Conference to 
Review  Progress  Made  in  the  Implementation  of  the 
Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate 
the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in 
All  Its  Aspects  (A/CONF.192/2012/RC/4,  annex  I), 
under  the  presidency  of  Ambassador  Joy  Ogwu  of 
Nigeria.
Nigeria is not immune to some of those challenges. 
My  country  is  currently  battling  the  heinous  and 
criminal  activities  of  the  Boko  Haram  group.  Rest 
assured,  however,  that  we  are  working  tirelessly  to 
address the problem in a comprehensive manner. In the 
subregion, Nigeria has also been guiding other African 
leaders in addressing the crisis in the Sahel region. We 
therefore call on the international community to support 
the current steps taken by the Economic Community of 
West African States to address the political and security 
situation  in  Mali.  We  believe  that  by  addressing  the 
security  situation  in  the  region,  especially  the  current 
situation  in  Mali,  regional  States  will  be  able  to  build 
upon the achievements made over the years towards the 
realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
in pursuit of the sustainable development goals.
My  delegation  notes  the  achievements  of  the 
Assembly in implementing the recommendations on the 
key priority areas identified in the Secretary-General’s 
review report of 2010 (A/65/165). The activities of the 
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  as  outlined 
in  the  report,  are  commendable.  However,  there  is 
a  need  for  additional  posts  and  resources  to  enable 
the  Office  to  fulfil  its  mandate  with  regard  to  the 
United Nations monitoring mechanism. We call on all 
Members of the United Nations to support the Office in 
realizing its full mandate, especially in supporting the 
2 
12-55308
implementation of the outcome document of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) and in shaping the post-2015 
development  agenda.  There  is  also  a  need  to  raise  the 
profile  of  interaction  between  African  regional  and 
subregional organizations with Member States in order 
to  further  strengthen  United  Nations  support  for  the 
activities of the Office.
Two  years  after  the  target  date  for  rolling  back 
the  malaria  scourge  in  Africa,  malaria  remains  a 
major  public  health  threat  in  Nigeria,  accounting  for 
30 per cent of the under-five mortality rate and 11 per 
cent  of  the  maternal  mortality  rate.  With  a  steady 
transmission  rate  and  a  seasonal  peak  from  April  to 
October,  the  disease  has  a  significant  impact  on  the 
economic  situation  in  the  country,  where  167  million 
inhabitants  are  at  risk.  Approximately  $835  million  is 
lost annually in prevention and treatment costs, as well 
as absenteeism, lost productivity and disability.
A  number  of  measures  are  being  implemented 
to  address  the  issue.  For  instance,  in  line  with 
the 
transformation  agenda  of  Nigeria’s  current 
Administration,  the  Government  programme  includes 
a  malaria-control  initiative.  Nigeria  aligns  itself  with 
the Abuja Declaration to Roll Back Malaria in Africa, 
announced by African heads of State and Government 
at  the  beginning  of  the  decade  in  order  to  halve  the 
burden of the disease by the year 2010. Nigeria bases its 
malaria-control and eradication efforts on four strategic 
pillars,  which  include  the  distribution  of  long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  nets  to  achieve  universal  coverage 
of  the  population,  prompt  diagnosis  and  treatment 
with  effective  medicines,  indoor  residual  spraying  to 
curtail  transmission  and  the  prevention  of  malaria  in 
pregnancy through intermittent preventive treatment.
Supported  by  external  partners,  high-impact 
malaria  interventions  have  been  put  in  place  and  are 
being rapidly scaled up to achieve results. At last count, 
51.6  million  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  had 
been  distributed  to  the  populace  through  campaigns. 
That  is  being  complemented  by  a  robust  strategy  for 
routine  distribution  to  sustain  the  coverage  of  80  per 
cent so far achieved.
In addition, the rational treatment of malaria with 
artemisinin  combination  therapy,  based  on  diagnosis 
with rapid diagnostic tests kits and microscopy, is seen 
as  the  gold  standard  for  the  prevention  of  resistance. 
Intermittent  preventive  treatment  of  pregnant  women 
has increased from 5 per cent to more than 13 per cent 
A/67/PV.26
in  the  past  few  years.  Larviciding  and  indoor  residual 
spraying have also been rolled out in phases. The impact 
of such efforts is becoming obvious. More children now 
sleep  under  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  than 
previously.  It  is  estimated  that  over  166,000  lives  of 
children under 5 years of age have been saved using the 
Lives Saved Tool.
A  number  of  challenges  currently 
threaten 
Nigeria’s resolve to move from the control stage to the 
elimination  stage  of  malaria  intervention.  In  the  past 
two months, many parts of the country have witnessed 
unprecedented  f looding,  which  has  left  many  people 
homeless.  That  situation  is  likely  to  prompt  an 
increased incidence of malaria, given that there are now 
more breeding sites for the mosquito vector than usual. 
Besides,  many  of  the  supplies  needed  for  intervention 
have been destroyed by the f loods.
Let  me  affirm  Nigeria’s  fullest  commitment  to 
vigorously  address  the  scourge  of  malaria  through 
various means, including the adoption and use of long-
lasting insecticide-treated nets for malaria control in the 
country. In order to rapidly scale up that intervention, a 
mixed model comprising a catch-up phase, as part of the 
mass universal campaign, and a keep-up phase in routine 
distribution was identified as part of Nigeria’s National 
Malaria Control Programme 2009-2013. That has been 
declared as the strategy for scaling up that intervention. 
We have received significant support from our external 
partners  through  the  universal  mass  campaign,  which 
began in 2009. We call on the international community 
to assist with capacity-building in the local production 
of long-lasting insecticide-treated nets.
Let  me  affirm  Nigeria’s  continued  commitment 
to  improving  the  lives  of  the  people  of  Africa.  The 
continent must not be defined either by violence or by 
failure. The African people and the world owe the future 
generations  of  Africans  an  enabling  environment, 
where  dreams  are  achieved  and  aspirations  are  met  in 
their entirety.
Mr.  Nam  Bora  (Cambodia):  I  would  like  to  say 
that  Cambodia  and  the  entire  nation  of  Cambodia  is 
mourning  the  passing  of  His  Majesty  former  King 
Norodom  Sihanouk,  who  was  the  architect  of  the 
friendship between Asia and Africa.
I am here today in mourning, yes, but I would like 
first of all to express thanks to the Secretary-General for 
his  comprehensive  report  contained  in  the  documents 
entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development: 
12-55308
3
A/67/PV.26
tenth  consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation 
and  international  support”  (A/67/204)  and  “Causes 
of  conf lict  and  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa” (A/67/205), as well 
the  earlier  report  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in 
Africa” (A/66/169).
to 
importance 
Cambodia  attaches  great 
its 
friendship  and  cooperation  with  Africa.  Over  the 
decades,  the  relationships  between  Cambodia  and 
African  countries  have  been  consolidated  and 
enhanced  in  the  spirit  of  solidarity,  close  cooperation 
and  mutual  respect.  Cambodia  strongly  supports  the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  considers  it  an  important 
tool  for  addressing  poverty  and  underdevelopment 
throughout  the  African  continent.  Cambodia  believes 
that  NEPAD  has  also  provided  a  collective  vision  and 
a  strategic  socioeconomic  development  framework  for 
Africa.
I would like to remind the Assembly that in 2002, 
when  Cambodia  was  Chair  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), we took the initiative 
of  sending  an  invitation  to  the  NEPAD  Chair,  former 
South African President Mbeki, to come to Cambodia 
to  deliver  a  statement  about  African  development. 
Cambodia also welcomes the significant progress made 
through the efforts of the African peoples and leaders 
to address some of the sectoral priorities of NEPAD and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  such  as 
education, health, infrastructure and agriculture.
As emphasized in the Secretary-General’s reports, 
most  African  countries  face  serious  challenges  in 
reaching the MDGs, particularly in the current fragile 
and  uncertain  global  economic  recovery.  Cambodia 
shares the view that much needs to be done in support 
of Africa’s implementation of NEPAD and the MDGs. 
Continued  attention  and  assistance  for  Africa  should 
remain  a  focus  of  international  development  action 
plans  and  programmes.  Cambodia  will  continue  to 
work in that direction.
In 
to  strengthen 
that  regard,  Cambodia  also  reaffirms 
its 
commitment 
its  cooperation  and 
collaboration  with  Africa.  We  are  ready  to  enhance 
our  relationship  and  partnership  with  Africa  for  the 
achievement of the MDGs and sustainable development. 
We  believe  that  through  mutual  support  and  the 
sharing of experiences and practices in socioeconomic 
development both Cambodia and the African States can 
achieve those objectives.
Furthermore,  we  believe 
that  South-South 
cooperation is the best strategy to promote an ASEAN 
and  African  partnership.  South-South  cooperation 
is  key  to  strategic  areas,  such  as  the  Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development  Programme,  that 
would significantly contribute to Africa’s development 
and  integration  in  terms  of  poverty  and  hunger 
eradication, agriculture and rural development, as well 
as the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change.
In that connection, the recent integration of NEPAD 
into the structures and processes of the African Union 
and  the  establishment  of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and 
Coordinating Agency can make a significant impact on 
NEPAD’s  implementation.  We  also  believe  that  it  is  a 
good way to facilitate and to improve the management 
and  coordination  of  Africa’s  regional  and  continental 
priority  programmes  and  projects,  promising  better 
outcomes for Africa’s development process.
Having  said  that,  Cambodia  fully  supports  the 
conclusion  and  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-
General  contained  in  his  reports  regarding  the  proper 
ways  and  means  to  scale  up  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD  and  build  on  the  momentum  of  international 
support for Africa’s development. In addition, we also 
support  the  recommendation  to  establish  a  review 
process as a monitoring mechanism of commitments to 
Africa’s development.
Finally,  Cambodia  welcomes  every  positive 
initiative to advance the common development agenda 
between  Cambodia  and  Africa.  We  stand  ready  to 
strengthen that cooperation, collaboration and solidarity 
with  the  international  community,  particularly  with 
Africa,  to  realize  the  internationally  agreed  upon 
development goals, including the MDGs.
Mr. Sergeev (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
African  countries  today  face  complex  challenges 
associated both with internal transformations as well as 
with the need to respond to external threats, including 
shocks on financial and commodities markets, climate 
change and associated natural disasters.
Russia welcomes the efforts of African countries to 
accelerate economic growth, strengthen political unity 
and  cultural  cooperation  throughout  the  continent  and 
increase the role of Africa in world affairs. The active 
participation  of  African  States  in  addressing  urgent 
4 
12-55308
contemporary  problems  and  full-f ledged  integration 
into the global economic and political system are crucial 
for  the  successful  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of 
the socio-economic agenda set by major United Nations 
conferences and summits.
We  support  coordinated  measures  designed  to 
promote  the  sustainable  development  of  the  African 
continent.  We  attach  priority  importance  to  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  by 
actively  participating  in  the  agreed  steps  to  provide 
NEPAD comprehensive assistance, both bilaterally and 
multilaterally.
To  date,  we  have  already  written  off  the  debt 
principal owed by the African States, which represents 
more  than  $20  billion.  Within  the  framework  of  a 
debt-for-development  swap,  bilateral  agreements  with 
Zambia and Tanzania have been signed to use the debt 
for  financing  development  projects.  Preparation  is 
under way for signing similar agreements with Benin, 
Mozambique  and  Ethiopia.  The  World  Bank  Group’s 
Trust  Fund  support  for  development  in  vulnerable 
countries,  primarily  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  received 
our contribution of over $50 million.
Russia  has  provided  countries  in  the  region  with 
humanitarian assistance, including bilateral assistance. 
The  Russian  donor  contribution  to  the  World  Food 
Programme  for  2011  was  allocated  to  assist  Ethiopia, 
Somalia, the Republic of Guinea, Kenya and Djibouti, 
and  through  UNICEF,  assistance  was  provided  to 
Ethiopia,  Kenya,  Somalia,  Djibouti  and  Eritrea. 
Through the International Civil Defence Organization, 
Russian food aid was provided to the Republic of Côte 
d’Ivoire. A targeted earmarked contribution was made 
to  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  for  its  fund  to  strengthen  its 
coordination capacity in the region.
Russia continues to participate in financing efforts 
to support Africa through the Group of Eight, the World 
Bank and other multilateral initiatives.
The  objectives  of  socioeconomic  progress  and 
improving  living  standards  in  Africa  have  also  been 
promoted  by  the  further  development  of  trade  and 
economic  relations,  as  well  as  investment  links.  A 
growing  number  of  Russian  companies  realize  that 
Africa  is  a  continent  of  tremendous  opportunities  for 
business  and  have  started  operations  or  are  currently 
expanding  their  presence  in  African  countries.  The 
States of the region enjoy extensive trade preferences. 
A/67/PV.26
The traditional exports of the least developed countries, 
most  of  which  are  in  Africa,  are  exempt  from  import 
and customs duties.
Russia  is  participating  in  the  Global  Partnership 
for  Education.  The  Russian  decision  to  allocate  to  the 
World Bank $42.9 million for 2008 to 2012 to improve 
the programme to enhance the quality of basic education 
in developing countries, including in Africa, has been 
carried out. Over 8,000 African students are currently 
studying  in  Russian  universities,  and  approximately 
half  of  them  have  scholarships  funded  by  the  Russian 
federal budget.
Significant  assistance  is  being  provided  to  Africa 
in  the  field  of  public  health.  The  total  amount  of  our 
voluntary contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  has  reached  $100  million. 
We  have  pledged  to  reimburse  up  to  $217  million  of 
the  Fund’s  expenditures  for  project  implementation  in 
Russia.
importance 
to 
Russia 
attaches  great 
the 
implementation  of  the  goals  of  the  Decade  to  Roll 
Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa.  In  2011,  we  paid  our  full  contribution  of 
$20  million  for  the  implementation  of  the  World 
Bank  Malaria  Booster  Programme  in  Africa.  In  2010, 
$4  million  was  allocated  to  a  similar  programme,  the 
Global  Programme  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  of 
the World Health Organization.
As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Russia makes a tangible contribution to the elaboration of 
the strategic policies and practical measures undertaken 
by the international community to strengthen peace and 
security  in  Africa.  We  participate  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations throughout the continent. We 
have  expanded  the  training  programmes  for  African 
peacekeepers and law enforcement officers. We believe 
that the settlement and prevention of armed conf licts is 
a key factor in ensuring a safe future for the continent. 
We support the increasingly active role of the African 
Union and subregional organizations in that regard. We 
note the efforts to establish the African Standby Force 
and the Continental Early Warning System.
We  call  for  increased  partnership  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security Council in settling acute crisis situations. We 
support the ongoing development of cooperation in that 
area between the United Nations and the African Union. 
12-55308
5
A/67/PV.26
An  important  step  in  that  regard  was  the  adoption  of 
Security Council resolution 2033 (2012) in January.
droughts  and  other  crises  arising  from  economic  and 
social changes.
To  ensure  a  more  lasting  peace  on  the  continent, 
what is needed is more active involvement on the part of 
African States themselves. It is essential to ensure that 
measures are adopted to combat illicit armed factions, 
strengthen  good-neighbourly  relations  and  expand 
cooperation  in  order  to  secure  borders  and  prevent 
the  spillover  of  conf licts,  the  infiltration  of  weapons 
and  mercenaries,  mass  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  and  impunity  for  crimes  against 
humanity.  Russia  provides  consistent  political  support 
to  the  relevant  efforts  undertaken  by  the  African 
community  and  stands  ready  to  further  contribute  to 
the strengthening of the capacities of African States to 
deal with crisis.
We  believe  that  all  the  barriers  to  transforming 
the  continent  into  an  area  of  security,  stability  and 
sustainable development can be overcome on the sound 
basis of international law, African unity and solidarity 
with  the  peoples  of  the  continent  on  the  part  of  the 
friends of Africa.
Russia welcomes the establishment of a monitoring 
mechanism under the auspices of the General Assembly 
to  review  progress  on  commitments  made  by  all 
parties  for  the  development  of  Africa.  We  expect  that 
substantial  and  depoliticized  dialogue  within  that 
mechanism  will  help  strengthen  regional  stability 
and  promote  the  conditions  necessary  for  sustainable 
economic growth. We are ready to continue to provide 
multifaceted  assistance  to  resolve  acute  problems 
throughout  the  continent  on  the  basis  of  an  equitable 
and mutually beneficial partnership.
Mr.  Nishida  (Japan):  Today,  the  focus  of  the 
international  community  is  on  Africa,  as  the  world’s 
new economic frontier, after Asia. In recent years, the 
annual economic growth rate of the African continent 
has exceeded 5 per cent.
On  the  other  hand,  Africa  still  faces  various 
challenges,  including  conf lict  and  poverty.  We  must 
urgently  strengthen  efforts  to  help  Africa  take  full 
advantage  of  its  rich  natural  resources  and  growing 
population in order to achieve economies and societies 
from  which  all  people  on  the  continent  can  benefit, 
including  the  socially  vulnerable,  such  as  women  and 
the poor. We must also strengthen our efforts to achieve 
a  society  that  is  resilient  to  natural  disasters  such  as 
The  African  economy,  like  all  economies,  is 
affected by the trends of the global economy. Therefore, 
in  order  to  strengthen  and  diversify  sectors  that  can 
foster  robust  and  sustainable  growth,  infrastructure 
development in Africa is essential. For that reason, Japan 
strongly  supports  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  (PIDA),  which  is  an  African 
initiative;  we  will  take  the  priorities  set  out  in  PIDA 
into consideration in implementing our own assistance.
We should note the fact that more than 40 per cent 
of the African population is under 15 years old. Youth 
employment  is  a  matter  of  economic  development, 
but  also,  naturally,  a  matter  of  security.  It  is  critical 
for  those  young  people  to  secure  decent  jobs,  and  job 
training for the younger generation is an urgent issue.
Agriculture and food security are also key issues in 
Africa.  In  particular,  rural  development,  with  special 
care  for  women  and  smallholders,  also  contributes 
to  poverty  eradication.  Japan  welcomes  the  fact  that 
African countries have collectively committed, through 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme,  to  annually  increasing  their  agricultural 
productivity by 6 per cent and allocating 10 per cent of 
their national budget to agricultural investment.
Climate  change  is  another  serious  issue  that  is 
closely  related  to  agriculture  and  food  security  in 
Africa. Supporting Africa so that it can adapt to climate 
change,  such  as  by  breeding  crop  varieties  that  are 
resistant to drought and developing irrigation facilities, 
is  very  important.  Japan  is  currently  contributing  to 
that  effort  through  the  Africa  Adaptation  Programme 
and  the  formulation  of  a  strategy  to  promote  low-
carbon growth and climate-resilient development under 
the  framework  of  the  Tokyo  International  Conference 
on African Development (TICAD).
in 
reducing  under-five  mortality 
Regarding health issues, we have made significant 
rates 
progress 
and  curbing  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis.  Nevertheless,  comprehensive  efforts, 
including further efforts to promote maternal and child 
health,  are  necessary  in  order  to  accelerate  progress 
toward the achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) throughout Africa.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  which  are 
necessary  preconditions  for  sustainable  economic 
6 
12-55308
growth, the achievement of the MDGs and the formation 
of  inclusive  and  resilient  societies,  Japan  welcomes 
the  relevant  African  initiatives  undertaken  through 
the  African  Union  and  subregional  organizations, 
especially in relation to South Sudan, Mali, Somalia and 
the  Sahel  region.  It  is  important  for  the  international 
community  to  support  such  African  initiatives  for 
peace and security.
Resolution  66/290  on  human  security,  adopted 
last  month,  was  co-facilitated  by  Jordan  and  Japan. 
It  is  important  to  realize  its  benefits  on  the  ground. 
Human  security  is  an  effective  approach  that  focuses 
on individual people and helps build societies in which 
everyone can live with dignity through action to protect 
and  empower  individuals  and  communities  that  are 
exposed to actual or potential threats. 
Japan  is  determined  to  contribute  to  advancing 
human  security  in  every  corner  of  the  world,  in 
cooperation  with  all  stakeholders,  bearing  in  mind 
that  the  three  pillars  of  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations — peace and stability, security and development 
and  human  rights  —  are  interconnected  and  mutually 
reinforcing. In that regard, the human security approach 
is also important in the context of Africa.
Since  1993,  TICAD  has  been  promoting  African 
development  by  emphasizing  both  ownership  by 
African  countries  and  partnership  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community,  including  my  own  country, 
Japan.  Since  the  launch  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  in  2001,  the  TICAD 
process  has  been  contributing  to  achieving  NEPAD’s 
priorities,  serving  as  an  important  framework  for 
partnership. With the support of an increasing number 
of organizers, including the United Nations, the World 
Bank,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  and  the  African  Union  Commission  (AUC), 
TICAD has grown into an international forum with the 
participation  of  international  organizations,  regional 
organizations, members of civil society, various donors 
and Asian countries.
In 2008, TICAD IV adopted the Yokohama Action 
Plan, which included two main commitments: first, that 
Japan would double its official development assistance 
to  Africa  to  $1.8  billion  by  2012;  and,  secondly,  that 
it  would  aim  to  double  its  investment  in  Africa  to 
$3.4  billion  by  2012.  Japan  has  been  working  steadily 
to deliver on those commitments; in fact, it has already 
achieved  and  surpassed  its  investment  commitment, 
A/67/PV.26
since  our  investments  in  Africa  have  in  fact  tripled 
rather than doubled.
Last  month, 
the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution 66/293 on a monitoring mechanism to review 
commitments  made  towards  Africa’s  development, 
which  emphasized  the  importance  of  following  up  on 
commitments made to development in Africa. Through 
its TICAD process, Japan has established a mechanism 
according to which we hold annual ministerial follow-
up  meetings  to  closely  monitor  the  progress  of  the 
commitments made at TICAD IV. This is a pioneering 
effort  aimed  at  improving  accountability,  and  we  are 
ready to share our experience of it. 
From  1  to  3  June  2013,  Japan,  together  with  the 
United Nations, the World Bank, UNDP and the AUC, 
will organize TICAD V in Yokohama, commemorating 
the twentieth anniversary of the TICAD process and, at 
the same time, the fiftieth anniversary of the founding 
of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity.  We  are  now  in 
the process of preparing for TICAD V, which includes 
a  senior  officials’  meeting  in  Ouagadougou,  Burkina 
Faso,  from  15  to  17  November  and  a  ministerial 
preparatory  meeting  in  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopia,  early 
next year.
At  TICAD  V,  we  hope  to  strengthen  both  the 
ownership  of  African  countries  and  partnership  with 
development  partners.  We  are  also  considering  ways 
in  which  civil  society  and  the  private  sector,  whose 
involvement  is  critical  to  Africa’s  long-term  self-
sustaining  development,  can  be  incorporated  into  that 
process.  Japan  invites  the  participation  of  African 
Heads  of  State  and  cooperation  with  development 
partners, as we have done with all the previous TICAD 
meetings.
Let  me  conclude  my  statement  by  reaffirming 
Japan’s unwavering long-term commitment to African 
development.
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Maged 
Abdelaziz  on  his  appointment  as  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa. His presence at every occasion when Africa is 
being discussed is testimony to the Secretary-General’s 
serious attention to African affairs.
(spoke in French)
I would also like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his  reports  on  the  items  on  today’s  agenda  (A/67/204 
and  A/67/205),  which  underscore  Africa’s  efforts  to 
12-55308
7
A/67/PV.26
emerge  from  underdevelopment,  but  which  also  point 
out the gaps and constraints that still exist, including in 
the essential area of international support.
Today, the whole world recognizes that Africa has 
made  significant  progress  in  various  areas  in  the  first 
10  years  of  existence  of  the  ambitious  development 
programme known as the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development 
(NEPAD).  The  Secretary-General’s 
report  enables  us  to  track  that  progress  through  the 
various  components  of  NEPAD’s  Programme  for 
Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa,  in  the  areas 
of  energy,  transportation,  water  and  sanitation  and 
information and communications technology. 
In the context of the current fragile and uncertain 
global recovery, the implementation of NEPAD and the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals on 
the  continent  require  unfaltering  determination  and 
leadership  on  the  part  of  Africa  and  its  development 
partners  in  order  to  ensure  that  commitments  are 
fulfilled on time if those development goals are to be met. 
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  stresses  the  importance 
of  operationalizing  the  United  Nations  monitoring 
mechanism  so  as  to  ensure  sufficient  follow-up  to  all 
commitments relating to Africa’s development.
Promoting 
lasting  peace  and  development 
in 
Africa  requires  sustained,  concrete,  unified  action  on 
the part of the international community that addresses 
the  root  causes  of  underdevelopment  and  conf lict  on 
the continent, with the aim of creating an environment 
conducive  to  investment  and  sustainable  economic 
growth  in  Africa.  Here  I  should  reiterate  Africa’s 
concern about a particular phenomenon that is a major 
source of social tension and poverty in Africa — youth 
unemployment.  In  Africa,  where  more  than  60  per 
cent  of  the  population  is  under  the  age  of  25,  youth 
unemployment  has  emerged  today  as  a  serious  threat 
both  to  African  countries  themselves  and  to  the 
international  community,  due  to  the  upheavals  and 
other repercussions it has produced in our societies.
Development  partners  should  therefore  redouble 
their  efforts  in  a  holistic  approach  to  helping  Africa 
resolve  the  underlying  causes  of  tension  on  the 
continent, which, besides unemployment, include food 
insecurity, debt issues, desertification, climate change 
and  water  shortages.  Facilitating  people’s  ability  to 
move  from  place  to  place,  increasing  direct  foreign 
investment,  strengthening  official  development  aid, 
encouraging technology transfer and capacity-building 
so  as  to  derive  advantage  from  preferential  treatment 
are now essential to helping to build development and 
lasting peace in Africa.
A  number  of  African  countries,  such  as  Tunisia, 
Egypt  and  Libya,  have  undertaken  sweeping  political 
and economic reforms in the wake of historic revolutions 
against the decades of dictatorship, corruption and poor 
governance they have endured. It is now up to the system 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  international  community 
and  all  our  partners  to  strengthen  their  support  to 
our  countries  as  we  seek  to  make  the  transition  to 
democracy and national reconstruction.
In  conclusion,  based  on  our  profound  conviction 
that  we  have  a  common  destiny  and  that  cooperation 
and  solidarity  among  African  nations  is  essential, 
Tunisia is determined to work with our partners on the 
continent to make Africa an area of active partnership 
and to create the conditions necessary for lasting peace 
and  development.  The  priority  task  of  all  interested 
stakeholders  now  is  to  honour  their  commitments  to 
Africa.
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): Facing 
the  impact  of  the  international  financial  crisis  in 
recent years, African countries have made unremitting 
independent efforts to promote the integration process, 
strengthen  international  cooperation  and  maintain  a 
steady momentum of stability and development and have 
made great strides in implementing the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). The establishment 
of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency 
has  promoted  the  implementation  of  projects  in  such 
key  areas  as  infrastructure,  agriculture,  food  security 
and health care and has enhanced the consistency and 
coordination  of  the  development  efforts  of  African 
countries. We are heartened by the achievements made 
by Africa and full of confidence in the continent. 
That  being  said,  one  must  also  acknowledge  the 
challenges  that  Africa  faces.  The  global  economy 
continues to slow down owing to the lingering financial 
crisis. The overall growth rate in Africa is still below the 
pre-crisis level of 6.5 per cent, which is not sufficient for 
substantial poverty reduction. Though it has increased 
somewhat  since  2004,  official  development  assistance 
to  Africa  is  still  far  from  what  has  been  pledged.  The 
international  financial  crisis  and  the  sovereign  debt 
crisis  in  Europe  have  resulted  in  long-term  pressure 
on  the  sustainability  of  Africa’s  debts,  a  reduction  in 
foreign direct investment in Africa and a deterioration 
in  the  trade  environment  for  Africa.  Local  conf licts 
in  some  parts  of  Africa  persist,  and  the  humanitarian 
8 
12-55308
crisis  has  aggravated  them.  Africa,  and  sub-Saharan 
Africa in particular, is confronted with huge challenges 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  as 
scheduled.
In the second decade of NEPAD, the international 
community  should  continue  to  increase  its  attention 
and contributions to Africa and should promote greater 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  so  as  to 
promote  stability  and  prosperity  in  Africa.  In  that 
context,  China  wishes  to  put  forward  the  following 
suggestions. 
First,  with  regard  to  strengthening  development 
partnerships,  developed  countries  should  demonstrate 
greater  political  will  and  fully  honour  their  aid  and 
debt-reduction commitments to Africa at an early date. 
The  international  community  should  do  its  best  to 
expand assistance to Africa, increase aid for trade and 
promote an early conclusion of the Doha Round of trade 
negotiations,  so  as  to  improve  the  trade  environment 
for  African  countries.  Resolution  66/293  should  be 
fully  implemented  so  as  to  strengthen  the  monitoring 
mechanism  to  review  commitments  pledged  towards 
Africa’s development. 
In recent years, South-South cooperation has seen 
rapid development, giving a forceful boost to economic 
and  social  development  in  Africa.  We  support  efforts 
to further tap the potential of South-South cooperation 
and leverage the advantages of that type of cooperation 
in  order  to  contribute  more  to  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD.  However,  South-South  cooperation  is  not  a 
substitute for, but rather a complement to, North-South 
cooperation.
Secondly, with regard to increasing United Nations 
support  for  Africa,  recent  years  have  seen  progress  in 
the  United  Nations  regional  initiatives  to  support  and 
help  Africa.  Priority  should  continue  to  be  given  to 
Africa’s  special  development  needs,  so  as  to  ensure 
that  the  priorities  of  the  United  Nations  agencies  are 
consistent  with  the  priority  areas  of  NEPAD.  The 
implementation  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
and  the  follow-up  actions  to  implement  the  outcome 
document  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
should also give special consideration to Africa’s needs.
Thirdly,    with  regard  to  Africa’s  ownership  of  its 
development  agenda,  African  countries  have  in  recent 
years  made  enormous  efforts  and  obtained  significant 
results 
in  economic  reforms,  conf lict  resolution 
A/67/PV.26
and  governance  capacity-building.  Africa  is  fully 
capable  of  controlling  its  own  development  agenda. 
The  international  community  should  respect  Africa’s 
realities and the will of African countries, support their 
independent efforts to handle their own affairs, further 
remove  conditions  attached  to  assistance  and  improve 
the predictability and transparency of aid.
In the six years since the establishment of the new 
China-Africa strategic partnership, China has deepened 
its  relations  with  African  countries  and  regional 
organizations including the African Union (AU). China 
has rendered active support for Africa’s integration and 
has  continued  increasing  its  support  for  NEPAD.  In 
the past three years, China’s total assistance to Africa 
has nearly doubled and is increasingly directed to such 
areas  as  improving  people’s  lives,  poverty  reduction 
and alleviation, disaster prevention and mitigation and 
capacity-building. We have built new schools, hospitals, 
roads,  bridges  and  water-supply  projects  for  Africa. 
China  has  made  good  on  its  commitment  to  provide 
$15  billion  in  concessional  loans  to  Africa.  With 
sustained efforts to expand trade with and investment in 
Africa, China has been Africa’s largest trading partner 
for  three  consecutive  years.  Africa’s  exports  to  China 
have grown by a large margin and have doubled in the 
past  three  years.  China’s  direct  investment  in  Africa 
has  exceeded  $15  billion  in  cumulative  terms,  with 
investment projects covering 50 African countries.
the  measures 
At  the  Fifth  Ministerial  Conference  of  the  Forum 
on  China-Africa  Cooperation,  held  in  July  in  Beijing, 
President  Hu  Jintao  announced 
in 
several  priority  areas  that  the  Chinese  Government 
will  take  in  the  next  three  years  to  support  peace  and 
development in Africa. China will provide a $20 billion 
credit  line  to  African  countries  to  assist  them  in 
developing  infrastructure,  agriculture,  manufacturing 
and  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises.  China  will 
build  more  agricultural 
technology  demonstration 
centres  as  needed  in  order  to  help  African  countries 
increase  production  capacity.  China  will  help  African 
countries enhance capacity-building in meteorological 
infrastructure and in forest protection and management. 
China will continue to carry out well-drilling and water-
supply projects in Africa to provide safe drinking water 
to the African people. China will encourage established 
Chinese  companies  and  financial  institutions  to  take 
part  in  transnational  and  transregional  infrastructure 
development  in  Africa.  China  will  help  African 
countries  upgrade  customs  and  commodity  inspection 
12-55308
9
A/67/PV.26
facilities  to  promote  intraregional  trade  facilitation. 
Moreover, China will launch an initiative on the China-
Africa cooperative partnership for peace and security, 
deepen cooperation with the AU and African countries 
in  the  area  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa,  provide 
financial  support  for  the  AU  peacekeeping  missions 
in Africa and the development of the African Standby 
Force,  and  train  more  officials  in  peace  and  security 
affairs and peacekeepers for the AU.
Cooperation  between  China  and  Africa  is  being 
carried out in the context of the fact that the two sides face 
similar  circumstances  and  share  the  common  mission 
of development. It is therefore highly constructive and 
promising.  China  attaches  no  political  strings  to  its 
aid  for  Africa.  China  and  Africa  have  drawn  on  each 
other’s  strengths  in  their  cooperation  with  a  view  to 
sharing  in  the  achievement  of  development,  and  such 
cooperation has provided opportunities for both sides. 
China  will  give  genuine  support  to  African  countries 
as they independently choose their path to development 
and  will  genuinely  help  African  countries  strengthen 
their capacity for self-development. China will forever 
be  a  good  friend,  good  partner  and  good  brother  of 
the  African  people.  Guided  by  an  open  and  inclusive 
approach,  China  will  work  with  other  countries  and 
international organizations to help promote development 
and prosperity and uphold peace and stability in Africa.
Mr.  Diallo  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
not  had  the  opportunity  to  formally  congratulate  you, 
Ambassador Balé, on the election of your country as a 
member  of  the  Bureau  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-seventh session. It is with great pleasure that I see 
you, Sir, presiding over the 26th plenary meeting of the 
Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  welcome  our  friends, 
Mr.  Maged  A.  Abdelaziz,  Under-Secretary-General 
and Special Adviser on Africa, and Dr. Ibrahim Assane 
Mayaki,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Planning  and 
Coordinating  Agency  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD). 
Senegal is gratiﬁ ed by the convening of this important 
debate on NEPAD. This ambitious programme aims to 
release  Africa  from  the  grip  of  underdevelopment.  I 
would like to convey our wholehearted appreciation to 
the Secretary-General who has just presented his high-
quality  reports  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205),  with  their  
relevant  and  constructive  recommendations  for  the 
socioeconomic reconstruction of the African continent. 
The continental initiative of NEPAD is based on an 
indigenous  culture  of  development.  At  the  same  time, 
it embodies a new approach to the nature and direction 
of  the  best  type  of  partnership  that  Africa  should 
have  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  The  implementation 
of  this  programme  is  therefore  of  great  interest  to 
Africa,  which  bears  the  primary  responsibility  for  its 
own  development.  But  it  also  demands  that  concrete 
actions  be  undertaken  by  the  rest  of  the  international 
community. 
As  is  so  well  underscored  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  report,  it  is  evident  today  that  over 
the  first  11  years  of  existence  of  NEPAD,  Africa 
has  made  significant  progress  in  a  number  of  areas, 
namely  in  terms  of  extinguishing  hotbeds  of  tension, 
the  return  of  economic  growth,  good  governance 
and  democracy,  as  well  as  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  Let  us  agree, 
however,  that  despite  the  encouraging  signs  referred 
to  by  the  Secretary-General,  progress  remains  slow, 
and  significant  difficulties  continue  to  cast  a  shadow 
over the future of our continent. Indeed, in many other 
areas  the  picture  is  grim,  exacerbated  by  the  recent 
economic,  food,  energy  and  environmental  crises, 
whose  inextricable  difficulties  have  held  Africa  back, 
placing it at a crossroads in its quest for development. 
The  high  rate  of  poverty,  HIV/AIDS  infections, 
malaria,  tuberculosis  and  child  mortality  are  even 
more alarming challenges. Despite satisfactory growth 
rates,  endemic  poverty  continues  to  weigh  heavily 
on  Africa.  To  these  recurring  problems  are  added  the 
familiar litany of other factors that continue to disrupt 
the  international  debate  on  development,  including 
rising levels of famine and unemployment; agricultural 
subsidies,  which  significantly 
trade; 
an  intolerable  debt  burden;  the  energy  crisis  with  its 
collateral  damage,  such  as  untimely  and  uncontrolled 
f luctuations  in  the  price  of  oil.  At  the  same  time,  the 
growth  of  investments  remains  at  the  very  heart  of 
the  continent’s  concerns  as  a  major  component  of  the 
strategy  aimed  at  stimulating  sustained  economic 
growth  and  establishing  a  genuine  competitive 
economy. 
impede  free 
Clearly, Africa will find it difficult to develop unless 
an end is put to those countless constraints. Along the 
same  lines,  serious  threats  weigh  on  the  stability  of  a 
continent increasingly beset by international terrorism, 
religious  fundamentalism  and  the  blind  fanaticism  of 
uncontrolled  groups.  In  that  regard,  what  is  needed  is 
10 
12-55308
the  firm  will  of  the  international  community  to  find 
lasting  solutions  to  the  conf licts,  which  cripple  and 
slow efforts for Africa’s development. 
It  is  time  to  welcome  resolution  2071  (2012), 
adopted  on  12  October  by  the  Security  Council,  in 
which  the  Council  encouraged  Africa  to  assume  its 
responsibilities  and  declared  its  willingness  to  look 
further  into  the  request  of  the  Economic  Community 
of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  for  intervention  to 
remedy the alarming situation in Mali. Senegal firmly 
condemns  the  occupation  of  half  of  Mali’s  territory, 
and we would like to reaffirm our ongoing support for 
that  brotherly  country  in  this  very  sensitive  phase  of 
the reconquest of its territorial integrity and its march 
towards prosperity,  understanding and progress. While 
completely  rejecting  any  partitioning  of  that  country, 
Senegal  would  like  to  voice  its  support  for  the  peace 
plan  adopted  by  ECOWAS.  We  commit  ourself  to 
ensuring the plan’s full success. 
My  country  takes  the  same  position  with  regard 
to  the  need  for  solidarity  to  restore  stability  in  Libya, 
Somalia,  Darfur  and  Guinea-Bissau.  Indeed,  it  is  by 
fulfilling  its  promises  and  financing  efforts  that  the 
international  community  will  be  able  to  truly  help 
Africa  to  free  itself  from  the  economic,  financial, 
environmental,  energy  and  food  crises.  Moreover, 
Africa  requires  a  genuine,  sincere,  fair  and  equitable 
partnership to eventually become the continent to bring 
about global growth, as is its vocation.
Mr. Sinhaseni (Thailand): At the outset, Thailand 
commends the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report,  contained  in  document  A/67/204,  which  will 
facilitate  the  implementation  of  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
Peace  and  development  in  Africa  matter  not  only 
to  our  African  brothers  and  sisters,  but  to  all  of  us. 
Africa is home to over a quarter of the United Nations 
family  of  nations,  with  a  combined  population  of 
over  1  billion,  or  one  sixth  of  the  world’s  population. 
It  is  therefore  our  shared  responsibility  to  promote 
stability and sustainable development in Africa. As the 
Secretary-General rightly states in his report, “African 
countries  and  the  international  community  ...  should 
strengthen  their  partnership  for  development  on  the 
basis  of  mutual  responsibility  and  accountability” 
(A/67/204, summary).
NEPAD,  along  with  other  regional  initiatives,  has 
significantly  contributed  to  the  remarkable  progress 
A/67/PV.26
in  socioeconomic  development  in  the  region  over 
the  past  decade.  However,  Africa  continues  to  face  a 
number  of  crises,  from  political  conf lict  to  economic 
slowdown,  from  terrorist  and  criminal  activities  to 
drought  and  famine.  Together  the  African  countries 
and the international community must ensure that such 
challenges  will  not  reverse  the  success  and  progress 
achieved to date.
in  enhancing 
It is the urgent task of the international community 
to  support  African  countries 
their 
prospects  of  attaining  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  That  can  be  achieved  only  through 
the  successful  implementation  of  the  NEPAD  sectoral 
priorities  aimed  at  promoting  equitable  economic 
growth  that  will  allow  Africa  to  be  better  integrated 
into  the  global  economy.  It  must  also  be  our  priority 
to  strengthen  Africa’s  capacity  to  deal  with  persistent 
and emerging global challenges, be they food security, 
climate change, disasters or pandemics.
while 
pursuing 
Thailand, 
people-centred 
development,  believes  that  economic  growth  and 
sustainable development can be achieved only through 
the  development  of  human  capital.  Therefore,  our 
development partnerships with African countries have 
focused primarily on human resource development and 
capacity-building  in  various  fields,  through  bilateral, 
trilateral  and  multilateral  cooperation.  We  hope  that 
Thailand’s  experience  and  expertise  in  agriculture, 
public health and education will be of value to Africa.
A  prerequisite  for  sustainable  development  is  a 
healthy  population.  Thailand  supports  Africa’s  efforts 
in  attaining  the  MDGs  by  2015,  including  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other  diseases. 
Thailand  supported  and  co-sponsored 
resolution 
62/180,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”,  with 
special  emphasis  on  universal  and  equitable  access  to 
treatment  and  medication  without  discrimination.  We 
also  supported  the  establishment  of  the  Global  Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, dedicated to 
helping  developing  countries  stamp  out  those  deadly 
scourges.
As  Thailand  has  learned  from  hard  experience, 
there is no one-size-fits-all solution, especially when it 
comes to development. We have therefore implemented 
development  programmes 
to 
individual  country  needs  in  Burundi,  Madagascar, 
Mozambique,  Senegal  and  the  Sudan.  Moreover,  we 
tailored  specifically 
12-55308
11
A/67/PV.26
have  also  established  a  partnership  with  Lesotho  in 
setting up an agricultural development and sufficiency 
economy project, in line with the sufficiency economy 
philosophy of His Majesty the King of Thailand, which 
values  low-cost,  sustainable  solutions  adapted  to  each 
situation.  We  will  continue  our  support  in  a  spirit  of 
partnership  through  South-South  cooperation  as  well 
as triangular cooperation with United Nations agencies 
such  as  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development  through  the  International  Trade  and 
Development Centre based in Bangkok.
Thailand  believes  that  sustainable  development 
can  never  be  achieved  without  durable  peace  and 
security.  As  emphasized  by  my  Prime  Minister  in  the 
general debate last month (see A/67/PV.14), innovative 
solutions and new thinking are necessary. According to 
the Secretary-General’s report (A/67/205), the past year 
witnessed zero growth in North Africa due to political 
unrest.  Conf licts  have  also  led  to  large  numbers  of 
refugees  and  the  expansion  of  transnational  criminal 
networks.  In  addressing  those  issues,  the  United 
Nations has played a crucial and commendable role.
For our part, Thailand has contributed to collective 
efforts on peace and security through our participation 
in the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation 
in  Darfur.  Counter-piracy  task  groups  in  the  Gulf  of 
Aden  are  another  area  where  we  have  contributed,  by 
providing  naval  patrol  vessels.  We  will  continue  to 
work with Africa and the international community in a 
spirit of solidarity to maintain peace and security.
Thailand  agrees  with 
the  Secretary-General, 
who  in  the  same  report  states  that  it  is  essential  to 
understand  and  address  the  needs  of  diverse  groups. 
Diversity,  if  not  well  managed,  can  become  a  source 
of  conf lict  and  instability,  and  ultimately  hinder 
development.  When  managed  well,  however,  unity  in 
diversity  can  be  a  powerful  source  of  strength,  as  we 
in the countries of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations have learned. Thailand commends the leading 
role  of  the  African  Union  in  contributing  similarly  to 
regional  socioeconomic  development,  particularly  in 
the face of the diverse array of challenges that confront 
the continent.
Finally, as a developing country that has undergone 
decades  of  trial  and  error,  Thailand  now  places 
sustainable  development  at  the  heart  of  its  national 
agenda. As a member of the international community, 
we will continue to do our part to strengthen the global 
partnership  for  development.  We  look  forward  to 
sharing  more  of  our  experiences  and  best  practices  in 
various areas of development with our African brothers 
and sisters, so that our continents, while geographically 
far apart, may become ever closer through cooperation.
Mr.  Núñez  Mosquera  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  attaches  the  highest  importance  to  the  theme 
of  today’s  debate.  Africa,  a  vastly  rich  continent, 
continues  to  face  obstacles  to  development  that  are 
unacceptable.  Rhetorical  proclamations  of  support  for 
the  continent  are  followed  by  the  sad  reality  that,  to 
take  just  one  example,  African  countries  must  waste 
resources paying five times in external debt what they 
can  on  social  development  programmes.  Powerful 
multinational corporations fight for control of Africa’s 
mineral  resources,  while  powerful  countries,  with  a 
few  exceptions,  break  their  already  modest  promises 
of  official  aid  and  resolutely  persist  in  unjust  trade 
practices that block the development of African nations. 
To deal with Africa’s problems we need to shed the 
mindset  of  profit  at  all  costs  that  sustains  the  unjust 
global  economic  system  the  world  is  subject  to.  Cuba 
will  continue  to  support  the  African  Union  and  all 
mechanisms  of  regional  cooperation  in  their  efforts 
to  find  African  solutions  to  African  challenges  and 
will  continue  to  call  for  honouring  the  principles  of 
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of African countries. We hope that in debating African 
issues  the  General  Assembly  will  tackle  the  real  core 
causes  of  the  continent’s  challenges,  which  are  the 
result of decades of colonial plundering and neoliberal 
measures that only deepen economic disadvantage, even 
bankrupting  many  African  countries.  In  that  vein,  we 
reiterate our support for resolution 66/293, which calls 
for  a  monitoring  mechanism  to  review  commitments 
made towards Africa’s development. 
The quest for independence and our African heritage 
are indissolubly woven into the formation of the Cuban 
nation  and  our  national  identity.  We  are  proud  to  say 
that the Cuban people are direct inheritors of Africa’s 
valour,  bravery  and  culture  of  resistance,  which  have 
battled  obstacles  heroically  for  centuries.  During  the 
colonial period, more than 1.5 million slaves, primarily 
from sub-Saharan Africa, were transported to Cuba to 
do  forced  labour  on  sugar-cane  plantations  and  other 
such work. 
12 
12-55308
The  Cuban  Revolution’s  strong  internationalist 
position has meant that we have always stood by Africa, 
from our unconditional support for the anticolonial wars 
of  independence  to  our  many  and  various  cooperative 
projects promoting the continent’s economic and social 
development.  More  than  381,000  Cuban  soldiers  and 
officers  have  fought  self lessly  to  defend  the  integrity 
and sovereignty of our brotherly African countries for 
almost three decades. As we have said before, the only 
things we have taken away from Africa are the remains 
of  our  fallen  heroes  and  pride  in  the  knowledge  of  a 
duty honourably fulfilled.
In 
the  context  of  South-South  cooperation, 
our  country  continues  to  bring  its  human  capital 
and  experience  to  the  work  of  collaboration  with 
the  countries  of  Africa.  To  mention  only  the  most 
significant  examples,  there  are  more  than  2,600 
Africans pursuing professional studies on scholarships 
at  Cuban  universities,  including  those  specializing 
in  the  medical  sciences.  More  than  5,000  Cubans 
are  providing  services  in  34  African  nations  with 
the  aim  of  encouraging  development  in  such  diverse 
areas  as  public  health,  education,  agriculture,  sport, 
construction and more. And more than 27,000 African 
patients  have  had  their  eyesight  restored  through  our 
Operation Miracle programme.
For  its  part,  Africa  has  always  stood  by  Cuba. 
Over  the  more  than  50  years  of  the  economic,  trade 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  on  my  country,  the 
Governments and peoples of Africa have closed ranks 
on 20 occasions to go before the General Assembly to 
call for the right of the Cuban people to determine their 
own destiny.
Cuba is an advocate for a fairer and more equitable 
international order. We seek no favours for Africa, only 
equality  of  opportunity.  That  is  all  that  is  needed  for 
Africa and other developing countries to tackle, without 
grotesque  obstacles,  the  challenges  of  working  for  the 
well-being of our peoples.
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): At the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Ibrahim  Assane 
Mayaki,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Planning 
and  Coordinating  Agency  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  and  to  take  the 
opportunity  to  once  more  congratulate  Mr.  Maged 
Abdelaziz on his appointment as Special Adviser of the 
Secretary-General on Africa.
A/67/PV.26
This  year  the  debate  on  Africa  comes  at  a  time 
marked by the persisting economic and financial crisis, 
whose  consequences  have  been  felt  more  intensely  in 
Africa  than  elsewhere.  Despite  a  certain  amount  of 
positive news about the revival of economic growth, it is 
important that we take note of the problems, challenges 
and  issues  that  African  countries  are  dealing  with. 
We  should  also  note  the  policies  implemented  within 
the  framework  of  NEPAD,  whose  primary  goal  is  to 
help build a major pole of growth in line with Africa’s 
legitimate aspirations.
In dedicating NEPAD as a mechanism that provides 
a  frame  of  reference  for  establishing  partnerships 
between Africa and the rest of the world, the international 
community has chosen a new approach to cooperation 
and  development  with  Africa.  The  development  path 
for  Africa  outlined  by  NEPAD  is  critical,  thanks  to 
the free rein it gives to the principles of ownership and 
partnership that are at the heart of this African initiative. 
The implementation of NEPAD remains based on clear 
leadership that aims to transform the ideals and vision 
of NEPAD’s founders into political action and realities, 
with  the  ultimate  objective  being  the  achievement  of 
good  political  and  economic  governance,  through 
strengthened  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  but  also 
through economic and social development.
The  recent  creation  of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and 
Coordination  Agency,  led  by  Mr.  Mayaki,  and  its 
integration  into  the  African  Union’s  structure,  marks 
a  qualitative  shift  that  enables  NEPAD  to  implement 
regional  and  continent-wide  structural  projects  and 
programmes.  Besides  imparting  momentum  to  the 
implementation  of  such  projects  and  programmes,  the 
Agency is in a position to encourage our development 
partners  to  respect  their  commitment  to  supporting 
the 
that  context, 
Algeria  welcomes  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption 
of  resolution  66/293,  concerning  the  establishment  of 
a  mechanism  to  monitor  commitments  made  towards 
Africa’s  development.  That  new  biennial  mechanism 
should  provide  a  framework  capable  of  evaluating  the 
fulfilment  of  commitments  undertaken  by  various 
parties  in  order  to  help  promote  cooperation  and 
partnership.
implementation  of  NEPAD.  In 
Aware of how vital good political governance is to the 
continent’s economic development, NEPAD introduced 
into  its  strategy  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
a  voluntary  tool  for  promoting  and  strengthening  the 
values of democracy and respect for the rule of law, and 
12-55308
13
A/67/PV.26
to consolidate social peace and sustainable growth. The 
Mechanism, which will celebrate its tenth anniversary 
in  2013,  has  continued  to  strengthen  its  position  as  a 
tool  for  promoting  good  governance  in  Africa,  with 
more than 30 countries acceding to it, 14 of which have 
conducted self-assessment tests.
impact,  including  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  improving  Africa’s  ability  to 
attract intra-African and international investment, this 
programme  will  enable  us  to  close  a  backwardness 
gap that costs Africa two percentage points of growth 
annually.
For its part, in 2012 Algeria, a founding member of 
the  Mechanism,  submitted  its  second-phase  report  on 
the implementation of its national action programme on 
governance.  That  report  testifies  to  our  determination 
and continuing willingness to strengthen civil society’s 
participation  in  achieving  a  sustainable  development 
that  ref lects  current  generations’  aspirations  while 
safeguarding  those  of  their  descendants.  This  report 
on  the  implementation  of  the  action  programme  was 
prepared  at  a  time  when  Algeria  was  committing  to  a 
new  series  of  political,  economic  and  social  reforms, 
proclaimed  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  in  April 
2011.
During  the  next  decade,  efforts  undertaken  in 
the  framework  of  NEPAD  will  focus  on  harmonizing 
sectoral  policies  and  promoting  common  economic 
policies on a regional and continental scale. Key sectors, 
such  as  agriculture,  the  environment,  information  and 
communications  technologies  and,  in  particular,  basic 
infrastructure, will now benefit from greater attention.
Agriculture  occupies  a  major  position  in  Africa’s 
development.  Indeed,  with  the  goal  of  guaranteeing 
food security, African countries have made significant 
progress,  aiming  to  allocate  10  per  cent  of  national 
budgets to agricultural development and to exceed the 
goal  of  a  6  per  cent  growth  rate  for  the  agricultural 
sector.  Thirty  countries  are  now  committed  to  this 
programme and 21 have devised a national investment 
plan for agriculture.
regional 
Furthermore,  Africa  understands  clearly  that  the 
foundation of its integration process is the development 
of  subregional  and 
infrastructure.  The 
growing  interest  of  African  leaders  in  developing 
and  building  up  the  central  sector  of  infrastructure  is 
clearly  a  result  of  the  absolute  priority  accorded  it  in 
the various plans and programmes initiated within the 
African Union-NEPAD framework. That is why Algeria 
welcomes the adoption in January by Africa’s Heads of 
State of the Programme for Infrastructure Development 
in  Africa,  embracing  four  areas  for  action  at  the 
regional  and  continental  levels:  energy,  transborder 
water  resources,  transportation  and  information  and 
its  social 
communications 
technologies.  Besides 
to 
inadequate 
We are compelled to conclude that the international 
the 
community’s  support  remains 
challenges that Africa is facing. We call on it to adopt 
specific  measures  designed  to  boost  the  economies 
of  developing  countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa, 
such  as  facilitating  access  to  developed  countries’ 
markets and respecting official development assistance 
commitments.  Beyond  this,  greater  participation  on 
Africa’s  part  in  global  economic  decision-making 
would  help  considerably  to  reduce  the  continent’s 
marginalization.
To conclude, Algeria wishes to convey its gratitude 
for  the  contributions  and  commitments  of  a  number 
of our partners, including the Group of 77 and China, 
which  have  enabled  NEPAD  to  make  a  two-pronged 
move  forward  in  the  fields  of  good  governance  and 
sustainable development.
Mr.  Chinyonga  (Zambia):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  align  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Cameroon  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States (see A/67/PV.25).
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
informative  reports  on  the  topics  under  consideration 
today 
(A/67/204  and  A/67/205).  The  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) brings out the issues, inter alia, 
of infrastructure development, agriculture, information 
and  communications  technology,  especially  telephone 
technology,  governance  and  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism, and the commitment to gender equality in 
Africa.
Let me commend the Office of the Special Adviser 
on  Africa,  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency and the United Nations Economic Commission 
for Africa for the NEPAD Africa Week that runs from 
15 to 19 October here in New York. The events that have 
been produced for the week, including today’s plenary 
meeting, are both inspirational and reinvigorating.
All the issues raised in the report of the Secretary-
General  have  been  identified  before,  but  what  is 
important and noteworthy is that African nations have 
taken  a  leadership  role  in  charting  the  course  of  their 
14 
12-55308
A/67/PV.26
development, especially in infrastructure development. 
My own country, Zambia, has identified infrastructure 
development  as  a  priority  area  in  its  sixth  national 
development  plan,  which  runs  from  2011  to  2015,  and 
is  encouraging  the  public-private  partnership  concept 
to accelerate infrastructure development, especially for 
roads.  The  other  priority  area  is  human  development, 
which  is  both  a  primary  agent  and  a  beneficiary  of 
development.  Zambia  aims  to  develop  skills  that  will 
match the demands of the labour market.
In terms of agriculture, Zambia has in recent years 
made  great  strides  and  produced  bumper  harvests  in 
grain production, especially maize, which is the staple 
food crop. However, the gains in agricultural production 
have yet to be translated into poverty reduction owing 
to a number of challenges, including inadequate storage 
capacity and limited road infrastructure between rural 
and  urban  centres,  which  create  difficulties  for  crop 
marketing and the distribution of agricultural inputs.
Agriculture  in  Zambia  is  mostly  rain-fed,  which 
makes it vulnerable to the effects of climate change. In 
dealing with that challenge, the Government is investing 
in  drought-resistant  crops,  irrigation,  early  warning 
systems  and  other  adaptation  measures.  Furthermore, 
the  Government 
in 
the  agriculture  sector  by  providing  incentives  for 
agroprocessing industries. 
is  promoting  value  addition 
Zambia sees the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture 
Development  Programme  as  providing  an  opportunity 
to develop the agriculture sector. We are also committed 
to allocating the agreed minimum required resources of 
10 per cent of the national budget to agriculture. 
In  line  with  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General, 
major  strides  have  been  made  in  information  and 
communications  technology,  especially  in  the  use 
of  mobile  telephones.  The  Government  has  created 
an  environment  conducive  for  development  in  that 
subsector,  with  positive  response  from  the  private 
sector.  That  has,  among  other 
improved 
telecommunication even in rural areas. However, high 
charges  still  exist  for  calls  within  Zambia  and  the 
region.
things, 
I am delighted to state that, in terms of governance, 
Zambia  remains  committed  to  promoting  democracy, 
and we are proud to state that the country has, since the 
1990s, experienced a peaceful transition of power from 
a ruling party to an opposition party through elections 
on two occasions, notably in 1991 and 2011.
Zambia is committed to the promotion and protection 
of the rights of women in order to reduce inequalities. 
In  that  regard,  the  Government  has  enacted  a  number 
of  laws,  such  as  the  Anti-Gender-Based-Violence  Act 
and  the  Anti-Human-Trafficking  Act.  It  has  further 
established  a  fully  f ledged  Ministry  of  Gender  and 
Child  Development  to  ensure  the  advancement  and 
equality of women. 
In  line  with  the  mandate  of  NEPAD,  Zambia 
calls  on  the  NEPAD  Agency  to  continue  promoting 
agriculture  and  food  security,  regional  integration 
and  infrastructure  development,  human  development 
and  other  cross-cutting  issues  such  as  gender  and 
information and communications technologies.
As to the issue of rolling back malaria in developing 
countries, the Government is working around the clock 
to ensure that Zambia achieves complete eradication of 
malaria by 2030.  Working with different partners, such 
as the World Health Organization, the African Leaders 
Malaria  Alliance  and  the  United  States  President’s 
Malaria  Initiative,  inter  alia,  tangible  gains  in  the 
fight  against  that  endemic  disease  have  been  made.  I 
am  happy  to  note  that  high-impact  interventions  have 
resulted  in  the  reduction  of  malaria  deaths  of  persons 
of all ages by 66 per cent, thereby surpassing the 2010 
Roll Back Malaria target by more than 50 per cent.
Lastly,  positive  trends  have  also  been  observed  in 
combating  HIV/AIDS.  One  of  our  major  challenges 
continues  to  be  resource  availability  to  fight  the 
epidemic  in  a  changing  world  economy  amid  reduced 
financial contributions from cooperating partners. For 
its part, the Government of Zambia, in its 2013 national 
budget  released  last  week,  has  allocated  an  amount 
representing  11.3  per  cent  of  the  total  national  budget 
towards the health sector, which translates to a 40 per 
cent increase over last year’s allocation. The HIV/AIDS 
component  will  benefit  from  the  increased  allocation, 
albeit  at 
the  expense  of  other  equally  essential 
requirements.  In  that  regard,  the  continued  need  for 
United  Nations  and  other  international  collaboration 
cannot be overemphasized.
I  therefore  wish  to  end  by  assuring  the  Assembly 
of  Zambia’s  undiminished  commitment 
these 
important developmental programmes, particularly for 
the African continent.
to 
Ms.  Anderson  (Ireland):  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the excellent reports that inform 
today’s  debate  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205).  There  are 
12-55308
15
A/67/PV.26
undoubtedly some very positive elements in the reports, 
which testify to the growth, progress and resilience we 
are  witnessing  in  Africa.  At  the  same  time,  there  is 
much that is sobering. The bottom line is bluntly stated: 
improved  performance  notwithstanding, 
“[I]ts 
Africa’s  growth 
the 
pre-crisis level … and inadequate to reduce poverty 
significantly”(A/67/204, para. 47).
is  considerably  below 
Ireland  is  deeply  engaged  with  the  unfolding 
African  story.  From  the  very  beginning,  the  primary 
focus  of  Irish  Aid,  Ireland’s  overseas  development 
programme, has been on Africa. The large majority of 
our  aid  partners  are  in  Africa,  and  it  is  in  Africa  that 
we  have  always  concentrated  the  bulk,  that  is,  80  per 
cent, of our resources. Recognizing the extent and pace 
of  change  in  Africa,  the  Irish  Government  launched 
an updated Africa strategy last year. The new strategy 
deepens and develops our approach to date, while also 
underlining  the  importance  of  the  growing  trade  and 
investment links.
Given  the  time  constraints  of  today’s  debate,  I 
intend to focus on just a couple of areas covered in the 
reports before us. Earlier, the speaker for the European 
Union commented on the Roll Back Malaria initiative. 
I would simply note the enormous progress made over 
the past decade, to the point that malaria is now on the 
retreat across the globe. None of that would have been 
possible  without  a  15-fold  increase  in  international 
funding for malaria control  and without creating new 
ways of doing business.  Ireland was a founder member 
of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  and  has  remained  hugely  committed  over  the 
past decade; our contributions to the Fund to date have 
totalled almost $175 million.
The  report  before  us  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), in both its analysis and 
its  recommendations,  fully  recognizes  the  importance 
of  agriculture  and  of  food  and  nutrition  security  to 
Africa’s development. That resonates very strongly with 
Ireland’s  official  development  assistance  priorities. 
In 2008, we set ourselves a target of allocating 20 per 
cent of our overseas development programme to hunger 
eradication. Earlier this year, we were able to announce 
that the target had been met.
Let me mention a few examples in Africa. We are very 
supportive  of  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agricultural 
Development  Programme  (CAADP)  and  support  and 
provide funding in several of our partner countries for 
the CAADP compacts. We are also founding members 
of the Scaling Up Nutrition movement, which has many 
African  members.  And  in  2011,  the  Irish  Government 
launched  the  Africa  Agri-Food  Development  Fund  to 
provide  financial  support  for  initiatives  that  help  to 
build  capacity  in  agribusiness  in  Africa.  The  Fund  is 
being piloted initially in Tanzania and Kenya.
gender 
equality 
The  report  is  clear  as  to  the  challenges  to 
strengthening 
and  women’s 
empowerment in Africa. I would like in particular today 
to address those challenges in a rural and agricultural 
context. We all know that women experience a number 
of  disadvantages  in  agriculture.  They  perform  a 
disproportionate  amount  of  farm  labour,  have  weaker 
land  rights  and  have  poorer  access  to  improved  farm 
inputs, extension services and financial services. Yet we 
know that if given equal rights, access to land and other 
critical  inputs  and  an  equal  say  in  decision-making, 
women  can  be  powerful  agents  of  change.  Engaging 
and empowering women farmers must be a cornerstone 
of any strategy to boost agricultural productivity. 
In  all  of  Ireland’s  engagement  in  Africa,  we 
prioritize  support  for  women’s  land  rights,  access  to 
credit  and  improved  farm  inputs.  We  support  efforts 
to  change  attitudes 
towards  men’s  and  women’s 
agricultural  workloads.  We  also  emphasize  gender-
specific  indicators  and  gender-disaggregated  data  in 
agricultural projects. The landmark decision taken last 
week  by  the  High  Court  in  Botswana  will  hopefully 
have  reverberations  across  the  continent  in  terms  of 
boosting women’s property rights.
The  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
is  a 
very  welcome  f lagship  programme  of  NEPAD.  To 
ensure  follow-up  and  effective  accountability,  it  is 
particularly  important  that  the  country  action  plans 
feed  into  the  national  mechanisms  for  planning  and 
resource  allocation,  rather  than  remaining  as  stand-
alone  documents.  Ireland  has  been  active  in  our 
partner  countries  for  many  years  in  supporting  better 
governance through providing assistance to Government 
ministries  and  local  authorities,  parliaments,  human 
rights  commissions  and  other  oversight  institutions 
for  institution-building.  We  also  help  support  good 
governance through civil society organizations.
Improving  the  quality  of  financial  management 
systems remains a major challenge. To support that, we 
fund  a  number  of  initiatives,  such  as  the  African  Tax 
Administration Forum, which helps build the capacity 
to  improve  tax  collection  systems.  Progress  is  being 
16 
12-55308
made,  as  the  report  states,  with  revenue  collection 
having tripled since 2002.
Management of diversity is rightly seen as a good 
governance 
issue.  The  Secretary-General’s  report 
before us cogently addresses what he describes as one 
of the most pressing issues in Africa: the management 
of  diversity.  It  is  a  challenge  that  is  by  no  means 
confined to Africa. We in Ireland have experienced on 
our own island the tensions and scars that history leaves 
behind — the pain of people who believe themselves to 
be on the wrong side of a border. We know how difficult 
it  is  to  build  the  approaches  and  institutions  that  can 
accommodate differing identities and aspirations.
The Secretary-General, in paragraph 97 of his report, 
calls for support to national processes and policies that 
promote  inclusive  and  participatory  political  systems, 
equitable representation of minorities, and institutions 
that  address  economic  and  political  inequalities.  The 
Good Friday Agreement of 1996 — an elaborate set of 
arrangements that sought to establish parity of esteem 
and equal treatment for both communities in Northern 
Ireland  —  is  the  outcome  of  just  such  a  process. 
Knowing  the  long  and  tortuous  road  that  led  to  the 
Good  Friday  Agreement,  we  wholeheartedly  endorse 
the  Secretary-General’s  call  and  stand  ready  to  offer 
any practical help we can. 
The  impact  of  the  global  financial  crisis  on  aid 
budgets worldwide is clearly a matter of deep concern. 
For  our  part,  Ireland  is  committed  to  maintaining  our 
development  programme  and  to  reaching  the  target  of 
0.7  per  cent  gross  national  income.  We  are  currently 
contributing in excess of 0.5 per cent, and, despite the 
current period of austerity in Ireland, which has required 
major cutbacks in domestic programmes, we will move 
resolutely  ahead  towards  the  0.7  per  cent  target.  As 
mentioned  earlier,  the  large  bulk  of  our  resources, 
close to 80 per cent, are devoted to Africa — more than 
twice  the  37  per  cent  share  of  the  total  Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development global aid 
allocation that goes to Africa.
The  African  Union  summit  in  January  this  year, 
with its theme of boosting intra-African trade, was all 
about  a  new  African  focus  and  confidence.  Ireland’s 
Africa strategy fully recognizes that new focus; we are 
keen  to  promote  stronger  regional  integration  towards 
increased  intra-African  trade,  to  provide  technical 
assistance  to  enhance  governmental  capacity  and 
industrial  development  planning,  and  to  promote  new 
opportunities  for  business  relations.  Next  week,  on 
A/67/PV.26
22  October,  we  will  be  hosting  in  Dublin  the  second 
Africa-Ireland  Economic  Forum,  a  strong  practical 
demonstration  of  our  commitment  to  expanding  our 
business engagement with Africa.
To  conclude,  on  a  personal  note,  I  found  it 
exhilarating  to  attend  the  African  Union  summit  in 
Addis Ababa earlier this year. The continent is clearly 
and palpably on the move, and it is particularly gratifying 
to see African women taking their rightful place in the 
leadership  of  that  move.  Without  overlooking  any  of 
the  sobering  realities,  or  minimizing  the  difficulties 
that lie ahead, it is clear that a new African narrative is 
emerging, and we in the United Nations are challenged 
to play our full part in that exciting new narrative.
Mr. Kandangha-Bariki (Togo) (spoke in French): 
Allow  me  to  begin  by  extending  my  wholehearted 
thanks  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
attention to agenda item 13, “2001-2010: Decade to Roll 
Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa”.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  my  warmest 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  on  his 
election and on the leadership with which he is guiding 
our work.
My delegation welcomes the selection of malaria as 
a  topic  of  our  debate  today.  We  endorse  the  statement 
made by Cameroon on behalf of the African Group and 
by  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China. 
Despite the tireless efforts of countries located in areas 
exposed  to  malaria,  the  disease  remains  the  primary 
cause  of  mortality  and  morbidity.  Given  the  endemic 
nature  of  the  disease,  only  a  collective  political 
commitment, 
resources, 
widespread  understanding  of  the  problem  and  the 
existence of appropriate health-care services will help 
to eradicate, or at least considerably reduce, the tragedy 
of malaria. 
together  with  sufficient 
In  Togo,  malaria  is  the  primary  public  health 
problem.  The  disease  is  endemic,  ravaging  the  entire 
territory  all  year  long,  with  new  outbreaks  during  the 
rainy  season.  According  to  national  health  statistics, 
malaria represents 38.9 per cent of clinic consultations 
and  21.9  per  cent  of  hospitalizations.    Malaria  killed 
more  than  1,314  people  in  Togo  in  2011,  and  we  had 
506,000  cases  recorded  in  public  clinics.  Children 
under 5 years of age and pregnant women are the most 
vulnerable.
12-55308
17
A/67/PV.26
In  the  context  of  its  determined  and  continuous 
efforts to implement the development goals contained in 
the international plan, Togo drafted a national five-year 
strategic  plan  to  combat  malaria,  entitled  “Roll  Back 
Malaria  2006-2010”,  with  a  particular  emphasis  on 
mosquito nets as a means of protection. There is not the 
slightest  doubt  that  it  is  my  country’s  wish  to  achieve 
the  highest  rate  of  use  of  insecticide-treated  mosquito 
nets, namely, 80 per cent, in order to protect vulnerable 
populations,  especially  women  and  children.  It  is 
true  that  the  numerous  campaigns  to  distribute  free 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  have  helped 
to 
decrease somewhat the rate of malaria contamination in 
some regions where 71 per cent of households, or 77 per 
cent  of  children  under  5  years  of  age,  have  benefited 
from health-care interventions. However, about 64.7 per 
cent of women are still exposed to malaria.
Today,  my  country  is  committed  to  meeting  the 
challenge  and  to  extending  the  rate  of  preventive  and 
curative coverage to 80 per cent of the at-risk population, 
in  conformity  with  the  technical  recommendations  of 
the World Health Organization, which should ensure a 
75  per  cent  reduction  in  the  impact  of  malaria  on  our 
people  by  2015.  With  that  in  mind,  we  have  started  a 
new,  simple  malaria  diagnosis  campaign,  including 
follow-up  treatments  with  Coartem  for  infants  and  all 
children  up  to  10  years  of  age,  which  will  run  from 
early  October  until  the  end  of  December.  Togo  has 
also  undertaken  an  anti-vector  campaign,  primarily 
aimed at improving local environmental conditions and 
strengthening sanitation.
A  reassessment  of  the  2005-2010  strategic  plan 
indicated  some  progress  as  well  as  weaknesses.  In 
reviewing  the  weaknesses,  there  were  two  main 
problems,  as  seen  in  the  target  groups,  namely,  a  low 
usage  rate  as  far  as  the  insecticide-treated  nets  were 
concerned and possible future unavailability of the nets. 
With  respect  to  environmental  management,  hygiene 
and basic sanitation, the major problem identified is the 
lack of an intersectoral programme and basic sanitation 
measures  aimed  at  dealing  with  the  spread  of  larvae 
breeding grounds.
Given all that, we must see our struggle to combat 
malaria  within  an  intra-  and  intersectoral  framework. 
As a priority, we must also increase resources to support 
sanitation and hygiene programmes. Togo believes that 
the  issue  of  malaria  must  be  addressed  not  only  as  a 
public health issue, but also as a development issue in 
terms of achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), to which Togo is fully committed. My country 
welcomes  the  support  of  our  bilateral  and  multilateral 
partners in combating malaria. We thank them for their 
wise counsel and technical and financial support.
In  order  to  provide  a  more  durable  and  effective 
response  capable  of  meeting  the  challenges  and  our 
collective ambition, we must take the measures needed 
to  effectively  manage  the  recruitment  and  training  of 
qualified health personnel at all levels in order to meet 
our  technical  and  operational  needs.  In  that  context, 
Togo  reiterates  its  commitment  to  our  people’s  health. 
To  the  best  of  our  ability,  we  will  increase  earmarked 
resources to combat that illness and create appropriate 
conditions  to  effectively  cooperate  with  the  private 
sector and improve high-quality anti-malarial services. 
That  is  why  my  country  has  taken  the  necessary 
steps  over  time  to  provide  an  increased  budget  for 
the  anti-malaria  campaign.  But  those  efforts  must  be 
bolstered  by  considerable  international  aid  so  that  we 
can meet our objectives for the period 2012-2015.
Mr.  Tin  (Myanmar):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  express  our  sincere  thanks  to  the 
Secretary-General for his insight and his comprehensive 
reports  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205)  on  the  important 
agenda  items  before  us  today.  It  has  been  over  one 
decade since the launching of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  as  a  collective  vision 
and a strategic socioeconomic development framework 
for  Africa,  aimed  at  bringing  about  sustained  and 
equitable economic growth for Africa and its improved 
integration within the global economy. 
In  past  years,  many  challenges  have  hindered  the 
collective effort to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) in Africa. However, adoption of NEPAD 
has  forged  broader  support  among  the  international 
community,  which  has  led  to  greater  achievements  on 
the  part  of  African  countries  through  policy  actions 
aimed  at  implementing  NEPAD’s  sectoral  priorities. 
It has also further enhanced prospects of attaining the 
MDGs.
The  establishment  of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and 
Coordination  Agency  and  its  integration  within  the 
African  Union’s  structure  and  process  have  gradually 
strengthened  the  coherence  and  coordination  of  all 
development efforts in the continent. We need to learn 
from the experiences of the past 10 years and build on 
NEPAD’s  success.  We  should  work  together  towards 
a  new  approach  and  better  ways  and  means  to  ensure 
18 
12-55308
effective implementation of the programme in the next 
decade.
the 
As NEPAD enters its second decade, clear resolve 
and  commitment,  as  well  as  policy  actions,  are 
essential  in  order  to  meet  Africa’s  development  needs 
and  to  effectively  and  fully  implement  the  NEPAD 
agenda.  We  are  pleased  to  witness  Africa’s  steady 
transformation  despite 
tremendous  challenges 
facing the region. We are also encouraged to learn that 
even with its difficult geopolitical environment and the 
decreasing momentum of the world economy, growth in 
Africa was resilient, with a rate of 4.5 per cent in 2011. 
Nevertheless, Africa’s growth is inadequate  for the goal 
of significantly reducing poverty, and the continent still 
lags behind other regions on progress in achieving the 
MDGs, because of the heavy effects caused by climate 
change and food insecurity.
It is evident that, while domestic leadership is key 
to Africa’s development, a strengthened and sustained 
global partnership is critical to successful development 
endeavours.  Although  development  partners  have 
committed  to  helping  Africa’s  development  needs, 
including  implementation  of  the  NEPAD  priorities, 
only limited progress has been made in that regard. We 
therefore  add  our  voice  in  calling  on  the  international 
community  to  increase  support  for  Africa  and  to  help 
it  make  further  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 
NEPAD agenda. 
Both  sustained  external  financial  support  and  the 
good management of the resources are prerequisites for 
success  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.  However, 
we hardly need to stress here the importance of giving 
special  consideration  to  the  needs  and  priorities  of 
African  countries,  as  well  as  to  their  right  to  self-
determination.
Myanmar  was  one  of  the  leading  countries  in 
building  friendship  and  solidarity  among  Asian  and 
African countries over five decades ago, as one of the 
organizers  of  the  historic  Asian-African  Conference, 
also  known  as  the  Bandung  Conference.  Myanmar 
has  long  been  committed  to  the  cause  of  peace  and 
development on the African continent and a strong and 
solid supporter of the decolonization efforts of African 
countries. As Myanmar and Africa have a deep-rooted 
relationship  and  tradition  of  friendship,  allow  me  to 
reiterate that, in solidarity with Africa, Myanmar will 
continue  to  stand  firmly  in  support  of  NEPAD’s  goal 
of  generating  broad-based  and  equitable  economic 
A/67/PV.26
growth.  Myanmar’s  recent  significant  changes  and 
re-engagement with the international community have 
also  opened  up  greater  opportunities  to  expand  trade 
and economic relations with countries in Africa, which 
is  of  benefit  to  the  peoples  of  both  Myanmar  and  the 
friendly countries of Africa.
in 
Myanmar  rejoices 
the  reaffirmations  and 
commitments  of  the  international  community  to  the 
full  implementation  of  existing  assistance  pledges, 
including  those  made  in  connection  with  Agenda 
21,  the  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action,  the  political 
declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs  (resolution 
63/1) and NEPAD at the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development.
Just  like  many  countries  in  Africa,  Myanmar 
has  lagged  behind  in  development  for  the  past  60 
years  owing  to  domestic  insurgency  problems  and 
an  unfavourable  external  environment.  Yet,  we  are 
now  redoubling  our  efforts  to  promote  peace  and 
development in our country through both political and 
economic  reform  measures  aimed  at  enhancing  the 
livelihood of the people. With the growing support and 
encouragement  of  our  development  partners  far  and 
near,  we  believe  that  Myanmar’s  economy  will  start 
to  gain  momentum  in  the  near  future.  Together  with 
other developing countries, Myanmar looks forward to 
enhancing our engagements with our African friends in 
their development endeavours through the South-South 
cooperation  framework,  which  we  believe  remains 
important for Africa’s development.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
support for the full and effective implementation of the 
NEPAD  agenda  to  promote  peace  and  development  in 
Africa, while building mutual understanding based on 
our friendship and cooperation in the Bandung spirit of 
Afro-Asian solidarity.
Mr.  Kohona  (Sri  Lanka):  The  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  has  provided 
a  road  map  for  strategic  development  for  the  most 
disadvantaged countries in the African continent. As a 
country that adopted its own development path in order 
to realize most of the Millennium Development Goals, 
Sri Lanka was able to graduate to middle-income status 
recently and we compliment African States, which have 
achieved a great deal.
In  the  past,  malaria  was  responsible  for  high 
morbidity  rates  worldwide,  especially  in  2010,  when 
an  estimated  216  million  cases  of  malaria  occurred, 
12-55308
19
A/67/PV.26
resulting  in  the  deaths  of  655,000  people,  mostly  in 
Africa.  Controlling  malaria  has  been  one  of  the  most 
cost-effective  challenges  in  the  global  public  health 
arena, providing an excellent return on investment. The 
Secretary-General  has  recognized  the  importance  of 
malaria as a barrier to the broader development agenda 
by making it one of his priorities for the beginning of 
his second term. Globally, the incidence of the disease 
has come down significantly during the past few years, 
especially  after  the  global  community  united  behind 
the  comprehensive  Global  Malaria  Action  Plan  of  the 
Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership  of  the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) in 1998.
The  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries  is  particularly  relevant  to  Sri  Lanka.  The 
socioeconomic  advantages  of  Sri  Lanka’s  public-
health-care  delivery  system  have  been  acknowledged 
globally. It is positively ref lected in the very low child 
and maternal mortality rates in the country. In addition, 
our success in eradicating polio has also been cited in a 
special case study.
Sri  Lanka,  once  plagued  by  malaria,  now 
experiences  only  sporadic  cases  in  some  parts  of  the 
country.  It  nearly  eliminated  malaria  once.  In  1963, 
during the global malaria eradication effort, we achieved 
a  low  of  only  17  cases,  down  from  92,000  cases  in 
1953. With funding declining and reduced spraying and 
surveillance,  we  experienced  a  massive  resurgence  of 
up to 1.5 million cases in 1967-1968. That highlighted 
the  necessity  of  continued  vigilance,  investment  and 
efforts to sustain results already achieved. Since 1970, 
Sri Lanka has worked hard to bring malaria back under 
control,  with  significant  success.  There  has  been  a 
dramatic  reduction  of  the  caseload  in  the  past  decade, 
down from 210,000 cases in 2000 to 558 cases in 2009, 
a  99.7  per  cent  reduction.  In  2011,  only  124  locally 
acquired cases were reported.
A  heavy  focus  on  preventative  measures,  such 
as  carrying  out  early  detection  and  operational 
research  and  giving  adequate  prominence  to  curative 
measures,  were  key  factors  in  our  success  story.  The 
massive  awareness  campaign  in  the  school  system  on 
epidemics  caused  by  mosquitoes  made  a  significant 
impact.  Political  leadership,  from  the  national  level  to 
the grass-roots level, was also mobilized. An effective 
partnership with civil society organizations, the private 
sector  and  international  development  partners  was  a 
contributory factor. I must acknowledge with gratitude 
the solid partnership with the WHO and the Roll Back 
Malaria  Partnership’s  Global  Malaria  Action  Plan, 
which has contributed tremendously to our efforts.
Sustaining  those  gains  and  preventing  resurgence 
are  even  more  challenging  today,  with  population 
pressures  and  the  tropical  environment  of  Sri  Lanka. 
Another  challenge  is  the  shift  in  the  population  group 
that  is  at  highest  risk.  The  group  most  at  risk  in  Sri 
Lanka is now adult men, particularly those exposed to 
malaria-carrying mosquitoes through their work, such 
as gem miners, service personnel and farmers. We are 
in the process of developing new strategies to address 
their needs as we progress with our success story.
I  would  also  commend  the  significant  progress 
made globally against malaria in recent years with the 
help of the United Nations and other partners, including 
bilateral and multilateral agencies. Sri Lanka is ready to 
share its experience and expertise with others. Moving 
forward,  especially  in  Africa,  it  will  be  critical  for  a 
range of actors to work together. It will be necessary to 
access  low-cost  and  affordable  treatments  and  drugs. 
The private sector has a key role in this area. The only 
way  to  achieve  universal  targets  like  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and those in the Roll Back Malaria 
Partnership’s  Global  Malaria  Action  Plan  is  to  work 
together in partnership.
Sri  Lanka  is  also  unique  in  that,  despite  nearly 
three  decades  of  internal  conf lict,  it  has  succeeded  in 
reducing malaria cases by 99.9 per cent since 1999 and 
is  on  track  to  eliminate  the  disease  entirely  by  2014. 
Normally,  countries  dealing  with  conf lict  situations 
experience  a  weakening  in  their  epidemic  control 
mechanisms. Among the keys to success was the ability 
of Sri Lanka’s national programme to be f lexible and to 
adapt to difficult and volatile conditions. Public health 
workers deployed mobile clinics equipped with malaria 
diagnostic  tools  and  anti-malarial  drugs  to  protect 
hard-to-reach and displaced populations.
Mr. Dos Santos (Brazil): My delegation would like 
to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this  joint  debate 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  and  on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa.  The 
current plenary meeting is an important opportunity to 
reaffirm our support for Africa’s development agenda, 
which is central to the achievement of the internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  would  also  like  to 
convey  our  appreciation  for  the  quality  of  the  reports 
and  notes  (A/67/204  and  A/64/205)  presented  by  the 
20 
12-55308
Secretary-General on the items under our consideration 
today.
The contours of Brazilian culture and society owe 
much  to  our  historical  ties  with  the  African  peoples. 
Those ties constitute an essential element of who we are 
as  a  nation.  Brazil’s  support  for  NEPAD  ref lects  that 
awareness of our inextricable connections to Africa. The 
Secretary-General’s  tenth  progress  report  on  NEPAD 
shows that Africa is undergoing a profound economic, 
social  and  political  transformation.  As  highlighted  by 
the  report,  the  New  Partnership  mechanism  aims  to 
generate  broad-based,  sustained  and  equitable  growth 
that allows Africa to reduce poverty and better integrate 
the continent into the global economy. We believe that 
cooperation  remains  a  key  strategy  for  success,  as 
progress in development demands concerted action on 
multiple  fronts  in  order  to  ensure  inclusive,  equitable 
and sustainable growth.
In 
communications 
technology, 
infrastructure,  agriculture, 
that  connection,  Brazil  commends 
the 
progress  made  in  the  African  continent  in  a  number 
of  areas,  as  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  such  as 
food 
security,  health,  education,  environment,  information 
and 
and  women’s 
empowerment.  We  wish  to  underscore  the  important 
role  played  by  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  as  a  framework  for  promoting 
synergies at the regional and continental levels through 
actions  focused  on 
transport,  energy  and  water 
infrastructure.
Many  challenges  still 
lie  ahead.  The  world 
to  face  renewed  uncertainty, 
economy  continues 
and  many  African  countries  still  depend  largely  on 
exports of commodities for their economic well-being. 
The  lack  of  progress  in  the  negotiations  of  the  World 
Trade  Organization  Doha  Round  —  particularly  with 
regard to improved agricultural market access, an issue 
of  central  importance  for  the  Round’s  development 
objectives — makes it much harder for poor countries 
to withstand the impacts of the global economic crisis. 
The  situation  is  further  aggravated  by  the  slow 
pace in the increase of official development assistance 
to  Africa.  As  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
Africa  has  received  only  around  half  of  the  increased 
assistance  pledged  at  the  Group  of  Eight  Summit 
in  Gleneagles  in  2005.  We  welcome,  in  that  regard, 
the  adoption  of  resolution  66/293  on  a  monitoring 
mechanism  to  review  commitments  made  towards 
A/67/PV.26
Africa’s  development,  and  we  call  upon  all  donor 
countries  to  fulfil  their  commitments  as  a  matter  of 
urgency.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  has  provided  important 
tools  to  enable  us  to  step  up  our  efforts  to  foster 
Africa’s  development  agenda  in  all  three  dimensions 
of sustainable development, namely, the economic, the 
social  and  the  environmental.  Based  on  the  principles 
of national ownership and leadership, NEPAD has our 
full  and  enthusiastic  support,  as  it  offers  an  effective 
framework for cooperation and development, rooted in 
African perspectives and African priorities.
Africa  remains  a  priority  for  Brazilian  foreign 
policy.  Over  the  past  decade,  Brazil  has  increased  its 
presence in Africa, including through the establishment 
of  a  growing  network  of  diplomatic  and  trade  missions 
in  the  continent.  Today,  we  are  present  in  37  African 
capitals,  including  in  Addis  Ababa,  the  headquarters 
of  the  African  Union.  We  have  also  been  working  to 
strengthen  regional  political  dialogue  with  a  view  to 
broadening the scope and number of developing partners. 
The Africa-South America Summit constitutes, in that 
sense,  a  good  example  of  an  innovative  platform  for 
increased dialogue and cooperation.
Bilateral economic ties between Brazil and African 
countries  have  also  prospered.  Over  the  past  decade, 
Brazil-Africa trade f lows have increased more than six-
fold, from $4.2 billion in 2002 to over $27 billion in 2011. 
We have also expanded investment in several countries 
on  the  continent,  particularly  in  the  construction, 
mining, energy and transportation sectors.
Brazil fully supports the sector priorities established 
by NEPAD. In recognition of the essential role played by 
agricultural and rural development as crucial drivers of 
food security and poverty eradication, we have sought 
to work with African partner countries to develop joint 
initiatives  in  those  areas.  Since  2002,  the  Brazilian 
Government  has  signed  more  than  50  cooperation 
agreements in the field of agriculture with 18 African 
countries,  including  Algeria,  Angola,  Cape  Verde, 
Cameroon,  Ghana,  Guinea-Bissau,  Mozambique,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Senegal, Tanzania and Tunisia. Two 
years ago, we were pleased to host 45 African countries 
in  the  first  Brazil-Africa  Dialogue  on  Food  Security, 
the Fight against Hunger, and Rural Development.
Since  2006,  the  Brazilian  Agricultural  Research 
Corporation,  a  State  company,  has  been  operating 
12-55308
21
A/67/PV.26
the 
in  Africa  through  an  office  in  Ghana  with  a  view 
technological  and  productive 
to  supporting 
improvement  of  savannah  agriculture 
in  Africa. 
Through  that  facility,  we  have  been  able  to  provide 
assistance  to  over  30  countries  in  the  region.  We 
also  believe  in  the  large  potential  Africa  has  for  the 
sustainable production of biofuels, while being careful 
not  to  endanger  food  production  or  food  security.  In 
that  sense,  Brazil  has  been  working  with  countries 
such as Ghana and Senegal in order to develop national 
capacity for the production of bioenergy.
As  a  rule,  cooperation  projects  aim  to  transfer 
skills, build local capacity and empower local workers, 
with  the  full  engagement  and  ownership  of  African 
Governments, in line with the principles that guide our 
engagement  in  South-South  cooperation  initiatives. 
Furthermore,  together  with  our  partners,  India  and 
South Africa, we have engaged in a number of capacity-
building projects with countries such as Burundi, Cape 
Verde, Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone.
The  implications  of  health  issues  on  the  overall 
efforts  to  promote  development  are  clear  and  have 
been reaffirmed in a number of internationally agreed 
documents,  such  as 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2).  According  to  the  World  Health 
Organization,  there  were,  in  2011,  around  216  million 
cases of malaria worldwide, with an estimated 655,000 
deaths  per  year,  mainly  in  Africa,  where  every 
minute  one  child  dies  of  that  disease.  NEPAD  rightly 
recognizes  the  close  links  between  health,  poverty, 
social  exclusion,  marginalization  and  environmental 
degradation in Africa.
As one of the countries aff licted by malaria, Brazil 
is  deeply  committed  to  the  international  fight  against 
the disease. Our engagement is manifested through both 
bilateral  cooperation  and  participation  in  multilateral 
efforts, such as the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, the 
International  Drug  Purchase  Facility  and  the  Global 
Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis.
Brazilian cooperation initiatives focus significantly 
on  creating  and  developing  capacities  in  the  area  of 
health.  On  the  bilateral  level,  we  have  developed  joint 
training  and  capacity-building  programmes  with  a 
number  of  African  countries  for  the  prevention  and 
control  of  malaria  and  the  overall  strengthening  of 
national health systems.
The international community has made remarkable 
progress  over  the  past  few  years  in  the  pursuit  of  the 
goals  of  achieving  universal  coverage  in  malaria 
prevention  and  treatment  by  2010  and  reducing  global 
malaria deaths to near zero preventable deaths by 2015. 
Programmes related to early diagnosis and control have 
been able to decrease the global mortality by 25 per cent 
since the beginning of the Roll Back Malaria initiative.
However, there are still many significant challenges 
to  be  overcome.  In  addition  to  traditional  prevention 
strategies, such as the use of insecticide-treated nets and 
indoor residual spraying, national Governments should 
be  able  to  count  on  the  support  of  the  international 
community to implement mechanisms aimed at ensuring 
universal access to free or affordable medicines for the 
treatment of malaria for those who are already affected, 
making  full  use  of  the  f lexibility  in  the  Agreement 
on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property 
Rights  (TRIPS)  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  in 
accordance  with  the  Doha  Declaration  on  TRIPS  and 
Public Health.
Mr.  Gumende  (Mozambique):  Since  this  is  the 
first time I am taking the f loor, I seize this opportunity 
to  reiterate  the  congratulations  of  the  Mozambican 
delegation  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  election  to 
preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session  and  to  assure  him  of  our  full  commitment  to 
contribute to the success of this session. The delegation 
of  Mozambique  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  distinguished  representative  of  Cameroon,  on 
behalf of the African Group (see A/67/PV.25).
It is with great interest that my delegation joins in 
this debate on the development of Africa, and we wish 
to commend the Secretary-General for the substantive 
reports  before  us  today  (A/67/204  and  A/67/205).  We 
also  take  the  opportunity  to  commend  the  various 
initiatives  related  to  the  celebration  of  Africa  Week, 
which  contributes  to  keeping  Africa’s  development 
needs at the centre of the international agenda.
We  note  with  encouragement  that  the  reports 
before  us  give  evidence  of  the  positive  trends  in 
Africa’s development, from its remarkable growth rates 
to its growing political stability, recognizing that those 
achievements  derive  from  strong  leadership,  good 
governance  and  increased  reliance  on  home-grown 
solutions that are appropriate to Africans as the subjects 
and owners of their own destiny.
The  New  Economic  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) has provided us with exceptional 
opportunities to improve capacities and policies aimed 
22 
12-55308
at delivering results in important socioeconomic areas 
and at promoting public and private partnerships, which 
have added to the growing confidence in Africa’s ability 
to extricate itself from the malaise of underdevelopment 
within  the  continent  and  beyond,  thus  enabling  many 
countries  to  make  progress  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
HIV/AIDS  being  the  most  vulnerable.  The  2010-2014 
five-year Government plan and its poverty eradication 
strategy envisage bold measures to strategically develop 
national systems and capacities in the health sector and 
to  increase  the  coverage  and  quality  of  interventions, 
which can enable the country to move to an elimination 
plan sooner.
A/67/PV.26
As the report of the Secretary-General underscores, 
the  African  continent  is  making  concerted  efforts 
to  ensure  that  international  development  assistance 
is  gradually  complemented  by  an  increasing  share 
of  internally  raised  resources  within  the  continent. 
Nevertheless, we believe that international development 
assistance  is  still  critical  to  helping  the  continent  to 
build  and  consolidate  the  foundations  for  growth  that 
will eventually reduce dependence through investments 
in infrastructure and the social sectors, such as health 
and education.
Therefore, while we are encouraged by the modest 
increase in the levels of official development assistance 
to Africa from $47 billion in 2010 to $50 billion in 2011, 
we  would  like  to  renew  the  call  to  the  international 
community  to  ensure  that  the  shortfalls  in  attaining 
the  agreed  levels  of  financial  commitments  made  at 
United Nations conferences and by the Group of Eight 
at Gleneagles in 2005 and L’Aquila in 2009, including 
those  relating  to  the  financing  of  food  security  and 
agriculture  programmes,  will  soon  be  resolved.  Only 
with the support of its development partners can Africa 
successfully address the prevailing challenges and stay 
the  course  to  sustainable  development  in  peace  and 
achieve the MDGs.
To that end, we concur with the recommendations 
contained  in  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General 
and  would  like  to  stress  that,  in  order  for  Africa 
to  continue  to  consolidate  the  socioeconomic  and 
political  achievements  made  so  far,  priority  should  be 
given  to  strengthening,  among  other  things,  inclusive 
governance,  partnerships  between  public  and  private 
sectors  so  as  to  expand  economic  opportunities,  build 
infrastructure,  develop  local  economies  and  reduce 
poverty.
With  regard  to  sustained  global  partnerships, 
turning  to  agenda  item  13,  malaria  remains  a  great 
concern  in  our  development  efforts,  as  it  accounts  for 
a  high  percentage  of  Mozambique’s  disease  burden, 
with  children  under  5  years  of  age,  pregnant  women, 
socially  disadvantaged  groups  and  people  living  with 
Accordingly,  the  Ministry  of  Health  is  actively 
engaged  in  establishing  participatory  and  integrated 
strategies to mitigate the impact of diseases that directly 
affect the social and economic structure. It has also put 
in place a strategy that combines efforts to secure more 
f lexible and better-trained health personnel, as well as 
a close monitoring mechanism for malaria eradication.
indoor 
residual 
such  as 
It is worth noting that Mozambique has witnessed 
significant  progress  in  the  reduction  of  the  malaria 
burden  in  the  country  through  various  initiatives 
the  National  Malaria  Control 
undertaken  under 
Programme, 
spraying; 
increased  Roll  Back  Malaria  awareness  campaigns, 
based on wide-scale mosquito net distribution, aiming 
at  universal  access;  intermittent  preventative  treatment 
for  pregnant  women;  the  use  of  rapid-diagnosis  tests 
as  well  as  combined  therapy  based  on  artemisinin  for 
malaria treatment. As a result, Mozambique has made 
significant steps towards reducing malaria occurrence 
and  has  increased  the  number  of  health  units  capable 
of  performing  malaria  diagnosis  on  the  ground.  In 
addition,  100  per  cent  of  health  units  and  indoor 
residual spraying agents are capable of assisting people 
with malaria by providing first-line malaria treatment; 
57  per  cent  of  the  affected  families  have  at  least  one 
mosquito  net  with  long-lasting  insecticide  treatment; 
34  per  cent  of  pregnant  women  were  entitled  to  two 
doses  of  intermittent  preventative  malaria  treatment 
during  the  first  semester  of  2012;  indoor  residual 
spraying covers 85 per cent of the targeted districts in 
the country for the 2011-2012 period.
Our  efforts  are  geared  towards  measures  that  go 
beyond  the  goal  of  malaria  prevention.  Our  aim  is  to 
increase  collective  awareness  of  good  practices,  with 
a view to eliminating the scourge of malaria, which is 
one of the constraints on our national development. As 
we  strive  to  keep  up  the  momentum  generated  by  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria, Mozambique would like 
to stress its view that the lessons learned and the best 
practices for scaling up national interventions add value 
to our efforts to improve universal access and reach the 
targets to which we have committed ourselves.
12-55308
23
A/67/PV.26
In  the  efforts  to  address  the  scourge  of  malaria, 
partnerships with the relevant stakeholders, such as the 
private  sector,  civil  society,  development  partners  and 
neighbouring countries, are of paramount importance. 
As  such,  Mozambique  is  among  the  eight  Southern 
African Development Community pilot group countries 
that signed, in 2009, a malaria agreement establishing 
2020  as  a  target  for  malaria  eradication.  We  are 
convinced  that  a  regional  approach  will  ensure  the 
availability of appropriate mechanisms to strengthen the 
ongoing transborder initiatives and their sustainability. 
We  reiterate  our  regional  common  understanding  that 
only  a  common  political  commitment  will  drive  us 
towards establishing an appropriate health architecture 
by  means  of  which  we  will  be  able  to  overcome 
the  challenge  confronting  the  region,  namely,  the 
eradication of malaria in this decade.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  stressing  that,  based 
on  the  progress  made  so  far  and  the  commitments 
adhered  to  by  the  various  partners,  we  are  confident 
that Africa will not be left behind. The Government of 
Mozambique  remains  committed  to  accelerating  and 
redoubling its efforts.
Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I would like, first of all, to align my delegation 
with  the  statement  made  by  Ambassador  Tommo 
Monthe, Permanent Representative of Cameroon, in his 
capacity as Chair of the African Group (see A/67/PV.25).
We are pleased that the Organization has convened 
this  meeting  on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa,  and 
we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  in 
that initiative and for his comprehensive report on the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (A/67/204). 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial  Guinea’s  appreciation  for  the  noble  efforts 
deployed over the past decade by the Roll Back Malaria 
Partnership  in  the  framework  of  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), with the benefit of 
substantive  international  support.  We  also  appreciate 
the  resources  mobilized,  which  are  greatly  helping 
Governments’ ongoing efforts to combat and eradicate 
pandemic  diseases  in  developing  countries,  such  as 
malaria. 
during  the  past  decade  the  rapid  increase  in  measures 
to control malaria has saved more than a million lives 
in  Africa,  reducing  deaths  from  malaria  by  38  per 
cent.  Those  achievements  should  help  to  strengthen 
the  international  partnership  aiming  to  completely 
eliminate malaria.
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea has contributed 
vigorously to those efforts at both the international and 
the  national  levels.  Internationally,  the  Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  sponsors  the 
UNESCO-Equatorial  Guinea  International  Prize  for 
Research in the Life Sciences, whose purpose is to foster 
scientific research aimed at the eradication of pandemic 
diseases,  such  as  malaria,  that  aff lict  the  continent  of 
Africa  and  other  regions  of  the  world.  Nationally,  the 
Government  runs  an  anti-malaria  initiative  sponsored 
by 
the  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare, 
the  Marathon  Oil  Corporation  and  Medical  Care 
Development International, which currently focuses on 
Bioko Island, but will be extended in 2013 to cover the 
mainland of the country. 
As  a  result  of  those  efforts  on  the  part  of  the 
Government, in cooperation with its partners Marathon 
and  Medical  Care,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
today  has  one  of  the  most  successful  programmes  to 
combat  malaria,  having  reduced  the  incidence  of  the 
disease  by  57  per  cent  in  only  four  years.  In  support 
of  that  initiative  the  Government  is  working  towards 
the  completion  of  a  wide-ranging  set  of  projects  to 
build  and  equip  specialized  hospitals,  provide  potable 
water and supply electricity to all parts of the country. 
Those  projects  fall  under  the  Government  Horizon 
2020 initiative, which seeks to provide health care for 
all,  education  for  all,  livelihoods  for  all,  food  for  all, 
electricity for all and potable water for all.
In his address to the General Assembly at this session, 
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the 
Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  reiterated  his  support 
for  an  approach  based  on  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility  in  the  global  fight  against  pandemic 
diseases,  including  malaria  (see  A/67/PV.12).  Because 
good intentions are not enough, but must be proved by 
actions,  the  President  of  the  Republic  backed  up  his 
stated support with specific commitments. 
Despite  those  efforts,  malaria  continues  to  take 
780,000  lives  a  year.  Malaria  still  affects  40  per  cent 
of  the  world’s  population,  impeding  socioeconomic 
development in the poorest communities. Nevertheless, 
In  that  vein,  we  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
for the noble work being done by the Roll Back Malaria 
Partnership under the leadership of Executive Director 
Fatoumata  Nafo-Traoré,  Under-Secretary-General 
24 
12-55308
the  New  Partnership 
Maged Abdelaziz, the Special Adviser of the Secretary-
General  on  Africa,  and  Mr.  Ibrahim  Miyaki,  Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  the  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency  of 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), for the remarkable dynamism 
and  pragmatism  of  the  work  being  done  within  the 
framework of NEPAD, and for the international support 
in promoting sustainable development and lasting peace 
in Africa. 
I  conclude  my  brief  remarks  by  encouraging  all 
of  Africa’s  partners  and,  indeed,  the  whole  of  the 
international  community  to  support  the  strong  efforts 
being  made  by  the  Governments  of  our  continent  and 
to  help  confront  the  numerous  challenges  they  face 
in  coping  with  the  pandemic  diseases,  in  particular 
malaria,  tuberculosis  and  HIV/AIDS,  while  striving 
for  sustainable  development  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
region.
Ms.  Cizare  (Ethiopia):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to 
express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  plenary 
meeting,  which  is  of  great  importance  for  Africa.  I 
would also like to express our deep appreciation to the 
Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  and  commitment 
in putting Africa’s agenda at the centre of the work of the 
United Nations system. Ethiopia welcomes the progress 
report of the Secretary-General on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  (A/67/204).  My 
delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Cameroon on behalf 
of the African Group (see A/67/PV.25).
The year 2012 signals the beginning of the second 
decade for NEPAD. A key milestone has been reached. 
Since  its  inception,  NEPAD  served  as  the  common 
and  shared  vision  for  Africa’s  renewal.  The  vision 
of  NEPAD’s  initiators  is  one  that  is  premised  on  the 
need  for  Africa  to  take  its  rightful  place  in  the  global 
system,  based  on  our  self-defined  transformative 
agenda  and  ownership.  Over  the  years  NEPAD  has 
matured  into  the  f lagship  development  programme  of 
the  African  Union.  Its  programmatic  activities  have 
promoted stronger African ownership through creative 
and  effective  cooperation  with  partners.  NEPAD  has 
been  contributing  immensely  to  the  transformation 
of  the  policy  design  and  implementation  of  Africa’s 
development objectives. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  Africa  is  witnessing  a  new 
era of renewed momentum. No longer is the continent 
A/67/PV.26
seen as a marginalized part of the world that is fit only 
for consideration from the perspective of humanitarian 
assistance.  Even  during  difficult  times  at  the  global 
level,  Africa  has  continued  to  register  growth.  That 
does not apply to all countries on the continent, but it 
applies to enough of them for the trend to be considered 
broadly representative. 
It  is  projected  that  Africa  will  grow  at  the  rate  of 
5  per  cent  in  the  next  decade,  which  is  not  sufficient 
to ensure the graduation of most of its least developed 
countries  into  the  middle-income  categories.  If  we 
are  to  achieve  more,  the  global  situation,  including 
financing for development, has to improve.
Although  the  continent  has  been  moving  towards 
a  more  promising  future,  the  development  challenges 
facing  Africa  remain  complex.  Global  realities  have 
continued  to  inf luence  Africa’s  development  outlook 
since  the  turn  of  the  new  millennium.  The  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  worsened  by  fiscal 
disarray, and climate change have had an impact, direct 
and indirect, on the high gross domestic product growth 
rates in Africa, which had reached a peak of about 6 per 
cent in 2007.
In  that  context,  the  role  of  NEPAD  is  extremely 
critical.  NEPAD  has  moved  into  a  new  phase  of 
Africa’s  development  trajectory.  The  focus  is  now  on 
the implementation of key programmes and projects in 
key  sectors  such  as  infrastructure,  energy,  agriculture 
and enhancement of African ownership. Essentially, the 
core  objectives  of  NEPAD  should  be  realized  through 
effective international cooperation.
Ethiopia  is  committed  to  the  NEPAD  vision  of 
taking  full  ownership  of  its  development  process. 
NEPAD  should  serve  as  the  catalyst  for  development 
and  regional  integration.  In  that  regard,  we  call  on  all 
development  partners  to  work  towards  re-energizing 
NEPAD implementation. For its part, Ethiopia attaches 
great importance to strengthening regional integration. 
The electric power connections and the road networks 
that  we  have  built  and  are  building  with  Djibouti,  the 
Sudan,  Kenya  and  South  Sudan  are  emblematic  of 
our  resolve  to  play  our  part  in  regional  integration. 
We  believe  that  that  infrastructure  development  will 
create  larger  markets  and  develop  stronger  economies 
that  facilitate  and  enhance  the  regional  economic 
transformation.
Beyond economic development, it is also essential 
to  promote  social  development  programmes  guided 
12-55308
25
A/67/PV.26
by  the  objective  of  social  inclusion.  Here  again  the 
challenge  is  not  to  come  up  with  a  new  strategy  for 
social development but to implement the strategies that 
we have on various occasions already charted. 
Recent reports describe Africa as a young continent, 
with  over  60  per  cent  of  its  current  population  being 
under  30  years  old.  The  current  characteristics  of 
African  demography  represent  a  potential  challenge. 
Proper  management  of  the  demographic  situation 
requires  active  and  substantive  participation  by  youth 
in the economic, social and political environment. We 
believe,  therefore,  that  the  main  principle  in  dealing 
with the issue must be to recognize that the problems of 
youth can be overcome successfully only by addressing 
the challenges facing African societies as a whole. It is 
in  that  context  that  it  becomes  essential  to  help  youth 
organize  and  to  create  the  necessary  political  space 
and  mechanisms  for  their  engagement  in  addressing 
societal challenges.
Turning  to  the  issue  of  rolling  back  malaria  in 
developing  countries,  since  2000  Ethiopia  has  made 
significant  and  intensified  efforts  by  initiating  and 
scaling  up  the  coverage  of  key  malaria  interventions 
throughout  the  country.  Our  malaria  prevention  and 
control  programme  is  an  integral  part  of  our  growth 
and  transformation  plan.  As  a  result,  the  overall 
achievement  has  been  a  significant  reduction  in  cases 
of malaria and malaria-related deaths. 
In  concluding,  Ethiopia  would  like  to  underscore 
that the post-2015 development agenda and the follow-
up to and implementation of the outcomes of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
particularly  in  the  process  of  formation  of  sustainable 
development  goals,  should  pay  particular  attention  to 
the development needs of Africa.
with  issues  related  to  security,  development  and  the 
rule of law.
The  State  of  Kuwait  attaches  special  importance 
to the agenda item before us because of Kuwait’s close 
relationship  with  Africa  and  the  challenges  that  the 
African  continent  faces.  Those  challenges  require  all 
of us to step up our efforts and cooperation and assist 
the peoples of the continent as they address them. They 
include,  inter  alia,  the  steep  increase  in  the  rate  of 
unemployment, the absence of security in a number of 
regions, the spread of armed conf licts, and the fact that 
a significant number of African States remain far from 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Eleven years have elapsed since the heads of African 
States adopted the NEPAD initiative, the comprehensive 
strategic vision for accomplishing economic and social 
development in Africa. Moreover, 10 years have elapsed 
since the General Assembly held a high-level dialogue 
on  the  NEPAD  initiative,  on  16  September  2002,  and 
adopted, in November 2002 its resolution 57/7, making 
NEPAD  the  international  community’s  framework 
for  Africa’s  development.  The  Assembly  called  upon 
the  United  Nations,  its  specialized  agencies  and  other 
development  partners  to  harmonize  their  programmes 
directed at supporting development efforts in Africa. 
Unfortunately, increases in the number of poverty 
cases  and  the  spread  of  dangerous  and  communicable 
diseases,  together  with  the  progressive  decrease  in 
economic support and support for development projects, 
makes  it  essential  that  the  international  community 
take  a  serious  stand,  determine  how  to  support  and 
assist  developing  African  States  in  overcoming  the 
difficulties  they  face  in  earning  their  livelihoods,  and 
adhere to the resolutions and commitments it has made 
to increase official development assistance.
Mr.  Al-Duwaisan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country’s delegation is pleased to take part in discussing 
the agenda item entitled “New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development”.  We  have  followed  with  great  attention 
the content of the two reports of the Secretary-General 
on  the  implementation  of  and  international  support 
for  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  (A/67/204)  and  on  the  causes  of  conf lict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa  (A/67/205).  We  join  others 
in  urging 
international  community,  African 
Governments,  development  partners  and  international 
financial  institutions  to  unite  their  efforts  in  dealing 
the 
During  the  past  five  years,  the  countries  of  the 
world  have  witnessed  the  emergence  of  numerous 
international challenges and dangers that have impeded 
development  efforts  in  many  developing  countries. 
Perhaps  the  most  pressing  of  those  challenges  have 
been  the  rise  in  food  prices,  the  turmoil  in  financial 
markets  and  the  global  economic  crisis.  However, 
despite the significance of those crises, they should not 
impede  the  international  community  in  the  fulfilment 
of  its  commitments  to  support  development  projects 
in  the  developing  and  the  least  developed  countries. 
I  therefore  cannot  fail  to  emphasize  the  need  to  urge 
African  countries  to  make  greater  efforts  to  address 
26 
12-55308
the requirements and the concerns of the international 
community, such as laying the foundations of stability 
and  good  governance  and  providing  the  appropriate 
environment  to  encourage  the  donor  countries  in  all 
its sectors to offer the needed economic and technical 
support to the countries on the African continent.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  mention  that  the 
State  of  Kuwait  has  not  spared,  nor  will  it  spare,  any 
effort  to  continue  its  support  and  provide  assistance 
to  developing  countries  in  general  and  to  African 
countries in particular, through its official institutions 
and  its  private  sector.  Such  assistance  is  considered  a 
constant  in  Kuwait’s  foreign  policy,  which  emanates 
from  its  conviction  that  advancing  the  economies  of 
those States and lending them a hand in achieving their 
development  goals  will  benefit  everyone,  consolidate 
partnerships  and  cooperation  and  further  strengthen 
global  trade  and  economic  systems.  My  country  will 
continue  to  lend  support  so  that  developing  countries 
in  general  and  the  African  countries  in  particular  can 
achieve their development goals.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  a  history  replete  with 
partnerships  with  African  countries  and  supporting 
their  development.  Kuwait’s  economic  relations  with 
the  African  countries  have  often  preceded  diplomatic 
and  political  relations.  A  fundamental  element  in 
that  regard  is  the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic 
Development,  which  has  a  presence  in  48  of  the  54 
countries  that  constitute  the  African  Union.  His 
Highness  the  Amir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  Sheikh 
Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  participated  in 
the  nineteenth  African  Union  summit,  held  in  Addis 
Ababa. Kuwait joined the African Union as an observer 
and made a donation at the summit of funds to cover the 
expenses of equipping the headquarters of the African 
Union  Commission.  All  those  aspects  emphasize  the 
depth of relations between Kuwait and the countries of 
Africa and clearly demonstrate my country’s desire to 
support and assist the countries of Africa as they find 
solutions to their problems.
Recognizing 
the 
importance  of 
joint  work 
undertaken  to  benefit  the  peoples  of  developing 
countries,  my  country  established  the  Kuwait  Fund 
for Arab Economic Development. The activities of the 
Fund have been expanded to 102 countries, all over the 
world, including 48 African countries, contributing to 
the financing of numerous projects in different sectors, 
including  agriculture,  transportation,  energy,  water, 
sanitation,  health,  education  and  so  on.  The  African 
A/67/PV.26
continent  has  always  benefited  from  the  activities  of 
the  Fund.  The  total  amount  that  the  Kuwait  Fund  for 
Arab Economic Development has spent on development 
projects in Africa exceeds $6.4 billion. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the  need 
for the international community, all intergovernmental 
and  non-governmental  organizations  and  the  private 
sector  to  stand  united  in  providing  the  support  and 
assistance needed to ensure the availability of the means 
for lives of dignity and to strengthen the infrastructure 
of the developing countries in general and the African 
countries  in  particular.  That  is  in  accordance  with 
Article  1  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
deals with international cooperation to solve economic, 
social, cultural and humanitarian issues.
Mr. Maina (Kenya): I wish to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  informing  today’s  debate 
(A/67/204  and  A/67/205).  I  also  take  this  opportunity 
to  thank  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa, 
the  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Africa 
for  organizing  the  NEPAD  Africa  Week.  That  event 
follows the very successful commemoration of the tenth 
anniversary of NEPAD held last year here in New York. 
My  delegation  supports  the  statement  delivered  at 
the  25th  meeting  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Cameroon on behalf of the Group of African States.
Today’s  debate  on  Africa  is  crucial,  as  it  takes 
place  at  a  time  when  there  is  even  greater  focus  on 
Africa’s  development  needs.  Kenya  was  honoured, 
together  with  Sweden,  to  co-facilitate  the  General 
Assembly process on the establishment of a monitoring 
mechanism to follow up on all commitments related to 
Africa’s development needs. I am happy to report that 
the  co-facilitators  successfully  completed  that  crucial 
exercise and presented a draft resolution to be adopted 
at the Assembly’s sixty-seventh session. I wish to thank 
all  Member  States  for  their  active  participation  and 
fruitful  contributions  during  the  consultation  process 
and the negotiation of the draft resolution.
A monitoring mechanism on Africa’s development 
needs  is  important,  as  it  will  help  to  identify  existing 
gaps  in  numerous  crucial  sectors  and  because  it  will 
hold  partner  agencies  and  countries  accountable  and 
maintain  political  momentum  in  efforts  to  achieve 
internationally agreed development goals.
12-55308
27
A/67/PV.26
Africa  is  the  most  infrastructure-deficient  region 
globally.  The  continent  requires  massive  investment 
in  infrastructure  development  —  transport,  energy, 
information and communications technology, and water 
and sanitation — in order to strengthen the platform for 
sustained  growth.  It  is  estimated  that  the  region  will 
need to commit over $200 billion annually, through the 
three pillars, in order to develop the capacity required 
for  sustained  development.  That  is  far  above  what  the 
continent  receives  in  official  development  assistance 
and what national budgets can afford. In fact, available 
data shows that the continent is able to marshal only a 
third of the resources required to meet the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other  internationally 
agreed development goals.
The  MDGs  represent  an  unprecedented  global 
consensus  on  measures  to  reduce  poverty,  especially 
in  Africa.  They  have  provided  a  powerful  tool  for 
sustaining global attention and for galvanizing support 
in many countries. The MDGs have shown that a set of 
clear and measurable targets can be an important driver 
of change, and that has provided incentives for a post-
2015 global development agenda. 
It  is  now  a  reality  that  no  country  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa  is  on  course  to  achieve  all  the  MDGs  by  2015. 
While some have made commendable progress towards 
meeting  the  MDG  targets  within  the  stipulated  time 
frame,  others  are  not  on  track  to  realize  any  of  them. 
Some  have  in  fact  recorded  negative  growth  and 
reversed gains.
Kenya’s  experience  in  the  pursuit  of  the  MDG 
targets has been mixed. We have significantly reduced 
the  proportion  of  our  population  living  below  the 
poverty line. We are on course to achieve the Goal on 
universal  primary  education,  with  the  net  enrolment 
rate  rising  from  74  per  cent  in  2000  to  95  per  cent  in 
2011.  Positive  progress  has  also  been  witnessed  in 
gender equality and the development of women. Kenya 
is a Board member of the Roll Back Malaria programme 
and  is  currently  consolidating  gains  achieved  in  the 
fight against malaria. 
It  was  envisaged  that  in  order  to  achieve  the 
MDGs  by  2015,  developing  countries  would  need  to 
register  a  consistent  and  sustainable  annual  growth 
rate of at least 7 per cent up to 2015. That forecast has 
not  been  realized,  as  most  countries  have  been  forced 
to  redirect  their  priorities  in  response  to  the  impacts 
stemming from a harsh global economic environment, 
including  the  global  economic  and  financial  crises 
and  humanitarian  interventions.  The  crises,  coupled 
with  rising  food  and  energy  prices  and  the  negative 
effects of climate change, have severely interrupted the 
development priorities of most of our countries. 
The  increasing  global  challenges  have  made  it 
apparent  that  perhaps  we  need  to  change  the  strategy. 
Thus,  even  as  we  continue  our  ref lections  on  the 
post-2015  scenario,  we  must  focus  our  attention  on 
accelerating  progress  towards  meeting  the  targets 
before the stipulated time. 
The  transition  from  the  MDGs  to  the  post-2015 
strategy must be combined with a degree of continuity. 
The  new  development  agenda  should  be  formulated 
through  a  participatory, 
inclusive  and  bottom-up 
process and should be United Nations-led. The process 
should  build  on  the  principles  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  experiences  with  the 
MDGs,  MDG  successes  and  resource  gaps.  The 
Millennium Declaration presented six values that were 
considered to be fundamental for international relations 
in  the  twenty-first  century  —  freedom,  equality, 
solidarity,  tolerance,  respect  for  nature,  and  shared 
responsibility.  The  new  global  development  blueprint 
must  re-emphasize  and  highlight 
increasing 
challenges facing poor countries, particularly those of 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  which  have  continued  to  negate 
the social and economic development of the continent.
the 
The  post-2015  development  strategy  is  therefore, 
more  than  before,  critical  to  Africa.  Dedicated  and 
accelerated  development  strategies  are  required  to 
fully  realize  the  vision  expressed  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration  and  create  a  world  where  globalization 
becomes a positive force for all.
the 
We  look  forward  to  active  engagement  in  the 
forthcoming  discussion  on 
intergovernmental 
process  on  sustainable  development  goals,  the  post-
2015  development  strategy  and 
just-launched 
negotiations  in  the  quadrennial  comprehensive  policy 
review. It is Kenya’s view that at the end of those parallel 
processes on the sustainable development goals and the 
post-2015 development strategy, we will come up with a 
single process which should be United Nations-led. The 
special needs of Africa must be prioritized, with Africa 
actively engaged in the negotiation process.
the 
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
28 
12-55308
