United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
8th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 25 September 2012, 6 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.8
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Address by Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Carlos  Mauricio  Funes  Cartagena,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos 
Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President of the Republic of 
El Salvador, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Funes  Cartagena  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
bring cordial greetings to the authorities of the United 
Nations and to all the Heads of State and representatives 
here  with  us.  This  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which  will  address  the  theme  of  the  settlement  of 
disputes  by  peaceful  means,  offers  us  an  opportunity 
to reflect on the course of the history of our countries 
and  humankind,  and  to  showcase  the  issues  that  the 
world’s peoples need to solve. The peaceful settlement 
of  conflicts  is  an  essential  part  of  how  we  strengthen 
our  democratic  institutions  and  the  rule  of  law  in  a 
world that has not yet consolidated peace.
For  various  reasons  that  we  need  not  go  into, 
we  are  witnessing  violations  of  the  principle  of 
non-interference  — 
through  various  mechanisms 
that  are  not  necessarily  military  —  of  our  countries’ 
constitutions and our own international treaties, as well 
as  various  manifestations  of  intolerance,  xenophobia 
and  other  attitudes  that  provoke  violence  and  foment 
conflict. Hard as it is to believe, we still see political 
parties, leaders, intellectuals and representatives of the 
media who continue to see global realities through Cold 
War eyes, as if the last half-century had not produced 
enormous changes in the international political map.
Such outdated positions hinder the progress of our 
peoples  and  nations  in  strengthening  and  broadening 
their democratic borders. My country, El Salvador, is a 
clear example of such contradictions, finding itself as 
it  does  stuck  between  a  process  that  is  strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  persistence  of  conservative 
forces that still entertain the fantasy of communism.
I  bring  these  thoughts  to  this  forum  because  I 
believe that El Salvador’s young democracy is a good 
example of how to settle disputes through dialogue. It 
is also a good example of structures that are mired in 
backwardness, privilege and the Manichaean view that 
belongs to the Cold War. As is well known, El Salvador 
endured a long armed conflict that lasted 12 years and 
cost  more  than  80,000  lives.  Our  emergence  from 
that conflict has been a model of the effectiveness of 
dialogue and negotiation for my country and the entire 
world.
We  took  a  giant  step  forward  as  a  nation 
20 years ago when, on 16 January 1992, we signed the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52041 (E)
*1252041*
A/67/PV.8
Chapultepec,  Mexico,  peace  accords  that  brought  the 
armed conflict to a definitive end. The United Nations 
itself  acted  as  mediator;  the  then  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Javier  Pérez  de  Cuellar,  in  consultation  with  the 
Security  Council,  appointed  the  Peruvian  diplomat 
Álvaro  de  Soto  as  mediator.  I  would  like,  if  I  may,  to 
pay tribute to Mr. De Soto’s work, as it is an example of 
how even exceedingly difficult disputes can be settled 
through dialogue. In that regard, he proved to be a true 
architect of peace. We can say that, beginning in 1992, 
Salvadorans launched a new process that has gradually 
consolidated  our  democracy  and  created  modern 
institutions.
Three  years  ago  El  Salvador  passed  another 
milestone signaling a step forward in the strengthening 
of our democracy. After 20 years of Governments led by 
the same political forces, we witnessed a political change 
that brought in the current Government to administer the 
State. This was not simply a change of political party; it 
opened the way to a movement of renewal that has been 
expressed  in  various  issues  of  enormous  importance 
for  the  rule  of  law  and  for  reinforcing  the  work  of 
our  democratic  institutions.  The  long-term  control  of 
our  country’s  Government  by  a  single  political  party 
for two decades gave absolute power to a small group 
over  the  organs  of  State  —  executive,  legislative  and 
judicial — and over other institutions such as the Court 
of Accounts, the Office of the Prosecutor General and 
the Public Ministry, among others.
As  change  and  the  break  with  absolute  control 
took place, they began to permit genuine independence 
in  the  branches  of  Government,  which  in  turn  began 
to  lead  to  the  genuine  flowering  of  democracy  that 
the  people  had  demanded.  Those  changes,  far  from 
changing the rules of the game, effectively guaranteed 
judicial  certainty  and  eliminated  the  privileges  that 
had  protected  Governments  in  the  past.  On  behalf 
of  the  State,  the  Government  asked  for  forgiveness 
for  the  crimes  committed  by  State  agents  during  the 
armed  conflict,  and  has  undertaken  and  continues  to 
undertake concrete efforts to make moral and material 
reparations  to  the  victims  of  barbaric  atrocities  and 
their families. This was a debt to the Salvadoran people 
and  the  international  community  that  had  not  been 
settled by previous Governments.
Not 
long  ago,  our  country  experienced  an 
institutional  crisis  whose  nature  and  scope  were 
very  different  from  those  of  the  armed  conflict,  but 
nonetheless  put  Salvadoran  democracy  to  the  test. 
I  am  referring  to  the  recent  crisis  that  arose  between 
the  constitutional  chamber  of  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice and the Legislative Assembly in my country. At 
no time did the crisis cause political instability; rather, 
it  brought  two  State  bodies  in  conflict  and,  in  that 
respect, it was an example of the independence of those 
two branches of Government in our country today. 
The conflict, arising from different and conflicting 
interpretations  of  the  Republic’s  Constitution,  lasted 
almost  five  months.  It  was  a  protracted  crisis  that 
generated  opposing  positions  within  our  country,  and 
the  lack  of  agreement  between  the  parties  drove  the 
Legislative  Assembly  to  call  for  a  settlement  through 
the Central American Court of Justice. The conflict and 
that decision of the parliamentary majority set off strong 
reactions  from  groups  on  either  side.  Unfortunately, 
it  was  also  exploited  by  foreign  groups,  including  by 
campaigning  United  States  senators  who  blew  the 
conflict  out  of  proportion  without  understanding  it 
fully. 
Therefore, with no agreement to resolve the crisis, 
the  President  of  the  Republic  offered  to  mediate  and 
facilitate the dialogue. After 17 long days of meetings 
with representatives of the different political camps in 
the Legislative Assembly, the longed-for agreement was 
finally  reached.  In  the  end,  that  agreement  led  to  the 
appointment of a new President of the Supreme Court 
of Justice and the normalization of the administration 
of justice in our country. 
I  wished  to  share  with  the  Assembly  this  brief 
sketch of events in order to underscore that once again 
El Salvador was able to find a felicitous solution to an 
institutional crisis through dialogue and as the fruit of 
negotiation. In short, it was a new triumph of the young 
and  ever-stronger  Salvadoran  democracy.  Of  course, 
many  challenges  lie  ahead,  such  as  that  of  promoting 
a  process  of  constitutional  reform  that  will  lead  to  an 
unequivocal interpretation of our Magna Carta so that 
we  do  not  once  again  suffer  conflicts  such  as  the  one 
we  saw  recently.  We  also  must  move  to  update  State 
institutions  in  the  light  of  what  we  have  learned  over 
the past two decades. 
El  Salvador  resolved  on  its  own  an  institutional 
conflict  that  in  other  eras  would  have  led  to  coups 
d’état and breaches of constitutional order with serious 
human, economic, political and social consequences for 
countries  that  suffered  such  situations.  We  found  the 
solution  through  dialogue,  which  is  a  fine  example  of 
the theme for this session of the General Assembly. At 
2 
12-52041
the same time, we are aware that the strengthening of 
democratic processes — which, happily, is the one-way 
road on which Latin America is now travelling — should 
bring  profound  changes  in  the  economic  and  social 
structures of our countries, which must clearly be based 
on the rule of law. 
The fact that there are people who are marginalized 
and excluded from the progress and goods that only a 
small  portion  of  humankind  is  able  to  enjoy  remains 
an open wound that we cannot and should not continue 
to  tolerate.  We  live  from  crisis  to  crisis,  ever  more 
frequent  and  ever  deeper,  which  lead  to  a  system  and 
models based essentially on the accumulation of wealth 
in the hands of a tiny minority, leaving large majorities 
in  poverty  and  backwardness.  The  phenomenon  of 
migration,  which  we  once  addressed  in  this  forum,  is 
the child of that planet-wide inequality and an striking 
reflection of the need to change and change quickly. 
Latin  America  has  taken  important  steps  in  that 
direction. We are leaving behind a perverse model that 
had impoverished our people and turned our region into 
the  most  unfair  of  the  planet  —  not  the  poorest,  but 
the most unfair. Today, we are aware that no model is 
successful if it leaves out vast majorities. With all the 
people involved we can achieve much, but without the 
people we can achieve nothing. That is the road that we 
have begun to travel in our region. Without a doubt, it 
will  be  a  difficult  and  long  road,  full  of  progress  and 
setbacks, but in the end, and I stress this, it is the only 
road that will allow for certain success. 
The  unfair  distribution  of  wealth  and  goods,  the 
constant  aggression  against  the  environment,  and  the 
lack  of  global  control  over  financial  flows  that  leads 
to recurring crises — which are always paid for by the 
people  and  never  by  those  who  are  responsible  —  are 
realities that do not arise from any ideology. The problem 
is not one of ideology. These are realities that we must 
change  in  order  to  establish  a  climate  of  peace  and 
security in which we see the domestic changes that give 
our  peoples  better  living  conditions  and  access  to  the 
material  and  cultural  goods  that  produce  progress  in 
our global society. 
I do not wish to conclude without first alluding to 
a  topic  that  we  have  also  addressed  in  this  forum  and 
that is a source of ongoing concern for the international 
community.  I  am  referring  to  civic  security  and  the 
fight against organized crime and all forms of violence. 
El Salvador is today the focus of the region, multilateral 
organizations  and  the  countries  that  historically  have 
A/67/PV.8
close ties to my country. That is due to a phenomenon 
that  we  have  been  experiencing  for  more  than  half 
a  year  and  that  has  brought  a  significant  drop  in 
violence  and  crime.  El  Salvador  was  the  second  most 
violent country on the American continent until a few 
months  ago.  We  had  15  murders  per  day  on  average, 
as  a  result  of  violence,  crime  and  infighting  among 
criminal organizations, in particular among gangs. By 
September,  the  average  had  fallen  to  3.8  murders  per 
day. We have seen drops in other crime rates that, while 
less significant, are still steady and substantial. 
For  the  past  three  years,  El  Salvador  has  been 
undertaking  a  policy  of  civic  security  that  has  been 
bearing  fruit.  Recently,  a  truce  signed  between  rival 
gangs,  with  the  Catholic  church  as  intermediary  and 
facilitated by the Government, contributed decidedly to 
that crime reduction process. However, let me also say 
that  if  violence  and  organized  crime  are  to  disappear 
in  our    countries,  we  must  modify  the  conditions  for 
millions  of  young  people  who  live  without  hope  and 
without opportunity. These are tasks that are incumbent 
upon  the  Governments  and  societies  of  each  of  our 
countries. 
However, there is more. As we have said on other 
occasions, without the strong and decided support of the 
drug-consuming countries, and without an unequivocal 
commitment from those large markets, we cannot wage 
this good fight successfully. Central America, together 
with  Mexico  and  Colombia,  have  agreed  upon  joint 
policies  to  wage  that  battle.  We  need  the  support  of 
the Government and people of the United States in that 
battle. It is essential. 
El  Salvador  has  launched  a  massive  campaign  to 
raise awareness and mobilize our people against gender 
violence  in  the  understanding  that  violence  against 
women is violence against all of society. If gender-based 
violence  is  a  problem  throughout  all  of  our  societies, 
it is one that we should address and that is even more 
pressing in societies where there is a strong tradition of 
tolerance of violence and chauvinism against women. 
Governments  bear  the  biggest  responsibility,  but 
societies  should  also  show  solidarity  and  commit  to 
those  efforts.  We  are  certain  that  the  differences  that 
divide  us  within  our  countries  can  be  overcome  only 
through dialogue. That is the manner in which we must 
resolve  conflicts.  Dialogue,  consensus  and  agreement 
are  the  guidelines  for  the  road  maps  that  will  lead  to 
societies that are more fair and prosperous. 
12-52041
3
A/67/PV.8
I  should  therefore  like  to  conclude  my  remarks 
by  sending  along  a  warm  greeting  to  the  people  and 
Government  of  Colombia  for  their  efforts  to  attain  a 
definitive peace in their country. For several decades, 
our sister Republic of Colombia has suffered an armed 
conflict  that  has  limited  its  possiblities  and  clearly 
hindered its economic growth and the well-being of its 
people. For that reason, the dialogue and negotiation that 
have  been  launched  by  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón  deserve  the  full  support  of  the  international 
community,  and  in  particular  of  the  Latin  American 
countries.  We  congratulate  the  Colombian  people  and 
wish  them  the  greatest  success  on  the  road  that  they 
have taken towards peace and national concord. 
Along  the  same  lines,  we  hail  the  process  of 
economic  reforms  undertaken  by  the  sister  Republic 
of  Cuba,  which  is  bringing  about  a  transformation 
that  is  worthy  of  our  support  and  encouragement.  We 
therefore  reiterate  the  call  we  made  last  year  in  this 
Hall.  The  blockade  against  Cuba  must  be  lifted.  It  is 
an anachronism from a past that has been overcome in 
our America. 
Peace, unity and change are essential values when 
it comes to working for the happiness of our peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Carlos  Mauricio  Funes  Cartagena,  President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Joseph Kabila 
Kabange, President of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  I  should  like  to  join  previous  speakers  in 
congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić and the other members 
of  the  Bureau  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I 
should  like  also  to  congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  for  the  work  that  he  accomplished  during 
his  mandate,  and  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  commitment  to  defending  the  ideals  of  our 
Organization. 
The holding of a session of the General Assembly 
offers  each  of  us  an  opportunity  to  participate  in  a 
collective process of reflection on ways and means of 
ensuring the success of efforts aimed at peace, security 
and development in each of our States and throughout 
the world.
President 
rightly 
Jeremić  has 
recommended 
that  interventions  during  this  general  debate  focus 
in  particular  on  the  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international  disputes  by  peaceful  means.  That 
recommendation is particularly wise because this is an 
issue  whose  relevance  and  timeliness  are  immutable 
and which is part and parcel of the process of tirelessly 
seeking  peace  through  means  other  than  the  use  of 
force.
World history makes clear the operational validity of 
the principle of the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes.  It  also  teaches  us  that  processes  of  dialogue 
and negotiation, in order to remain credible as ways of 
resolving conflicts and disputes, must be based on truth 
and respect for the law and the values and universally 
recognized principles. They should guard against both 
hasty action and stalemate, and they should demonstrate 
effectiveness by producing the hoped-for results, even 
if this is done in a gradual manner.
It must be noted that more than 60 years after the 
founding  of  the  United  Nations,  the  world  continues 
to  witness  many  situations  of  war  and  instability. 
Terrorism is increasing instead of decreasing. Maritime 
piracy, which we thought had been eradicated, is once 
again  becoming  one  of  the  main  threats  to  peace 
and  security.  The  Middle  East  is  today  a  hotbed  of 
tension. Syria is in the throes of bloodshed, and Mali is 
witnessing attempts at separatism.
More broadly, as peace is more than just the absence 
of war, many scourges still affect humanity. Many are 
devoting their creativity and energy to destabilization 
and  destruction,  by  means  of  drug 
trafficking, 
4 
12-52041
trafficking in persons and other violations of the rights 
and freedoms of human beings, instead of working for 
the  prosperity  and  for  individual  and  collective  well-
being.
In addition, for the sake of more than two thirds of 
humanity, there is an increasingly urgent need to fight 
poverty, ignorance, violence, injustice and diseases of 
all kinds, particularly HIV and malaria.
After  years  of  difficulties,  my  country, 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  is  in  the  process 
of consolidating of peace and security. To that end, no 
effort  has  been  spared,  and  remarkable  progress  has 
been made. Begun for the first time only 10 years ago 
in  a  country  that  has  had  independence  for  50  years, 
tireless  efforts  towards  democratization,  the  building 
of a State based on the rule of law, the development of 
the socioeconomic infrastructure, and the improvement 
of the living conditions of our people continue, which is 
proof of the determination of the Congolese people and 
of its leaders to be a factor of peace and stability. 
That  momentum,  unfortunately,  is  now  under 
threat by the enemies of peace. Since March 2012, the 
province  of  North  Kivu,  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  where  the  concepts  of  peace,  stability, 
reconciliation,  work  and  human  dignity  had  begun 
to  regain  a  foothold,  has,  sadly,  once  again  gained 
notoriety,  not  because  of  the  incomparable  beauty 
of  its  landscape  or  the  extraordinary  richness  of  its 
biodiversity,  but  as  an  example  of  the  profound  evil 
that  selfishness,  extremism,  communal  violence  and 
the  philosophy  of  “might  makes  right”  can  wreak  on 
a society.
Even  as  I  address  the  Assembly  today,  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  children,  women  and  men  in  North 
Kivu are deprived of peace and are being subjected to 
inhuman  and  degrading  treatment  by  negative  forces, 
led by unrepentant elements with a vast capacity to do 
harm and who benefit from external support. Children 
are  unable  to  attend  school  and  are  forced  to  carry 
and use firearms to kill other children, even their own 
brothers  and  sisters.  That  situation  is  unacceptable.  It 
should be condemned and should give rise to sanctions. 
We expect that the community of nations will shoulder 
its responsibilities in that respect and that the Security 
Council  will  ensure  compliance  with  its  resolutions. 
That is a condition for those resolutions to be effective 
and remain credible.
A/67/PV.8
We  are  aware  that  it  is  up  to  us,  the  Congolese 
people, to defend our country and ensure law and order 
and security throughout our national territory. We are 
determined to assume that responsibility and we intend 
to  dedicate  all  of  our  human,  material  and  financial 
resources  to  that  end,  even  sacrificing  our  legitimate 
ambitions for the emergence of Congo. We also remain 
determined to guarantee national cohesion and ensure 
equal protection for all Congolese citizens. 
At the same time, it is my hope to see the Organization 
encourage all Member States, in particular those that are 
tempted by violence, to respect the guiding principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who, 
from  afar  or  from  close  by,  bilateral  or  multilateral 
partners, including the United Nations, have assisted us 
in our efforts to build at the centre of Africa a Congo 
that  is  united  and  prosperous  and  that  lives  in  peace 
with itself and with all of its neighbours. I would like 
to  assure  the  Assembly  of  one  thing:  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo is a safe investment. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo for the statement he 
has just made. 
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of 
the Gabonese Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Gabonese Republic. 
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba, 
President of the Gabonese Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Bongo  Ondimba  (spoke  in  French):  I 
warmly  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
12-52041
5
A/67/PV.8
session. His election demonstrates the esteem in which 
he and his country, Serbia, are held on the international 
scene.  I  can  assure  him  that  he  has  the  support  of 
my  country,  Gabon.  I  also  commend  the  outstanding 
work  done  by  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser, during his presidency of the Assembly at its 
sixty-sixth  session.  And  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
confidence  in  the  efforts  that  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon is undertaking as the head of the Organization. 
Our  world  more  than  ever  needs  a  dialogue 
of  civilizations  and  cultures.  In  order  to  build  a 
more  peaceful  world,  it  needs  more  tolerance,  more 
understanding and more respect among peoples. During 
this session, we are called upon to redefine the outlines 
for  better  management  of  global  challenges.  I  would 
like to welcome the theme chosen by the President for 
this  session,  namely,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or 
settlement  of  international  disputes  or  situations  by 
peaceful means”, which will remain at the heart of our 
common efforts and is indeed an ongoing quest. 
The  debate  we  held  yesterday  on  the  rule  of  law 
at  the  national  and  international  levels  was  also  a 
discussion of the conditions for peace in our countries 
and  around  the  world.  By  maintaining  our  focus  on 
that  goal  and  working  together,  we  can  better  tackle 
the  challenges  of  an  international  context  that  is  still 
marked  by  multifaceted  crises,  illustrated  by  many 
hotbeds of tension around the world. That is shown by 
the situations in the Middle East and Africa, which are 
still of concern to us.
The  Syrian  crisis,  which  arose  as  an  extension  of 
the  Arab  Spring  last  year,  is  having  a  destabilizing 
impact on several countries of the Middle East region. 
We hope that the efforts undertaken by the Joint Special 
Representative,  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  will  help  put  a 
stop to confrontation and will open up a dialogue.
With respect to the situation in Mali, we condemn 
the attempts to divide the country and the destruction of 
the World Heritage sites in Timbuktu. Gabon supports 
the  efforts  of  the  new  transitional  Government,  the 
Economic Community of West African States and the 
African Union to try to re-establish territorial integrity.
the  United  Nations 
I  urge  the  Security  Council  and  Member  States 
to  support 
integral  regional 
strategy  on  the  Sahel,  which  addresses  issues  of 
security,  governance,  development,  human  rights  and 
humanitarian concerns. 
When  we  served  on  the  Security  Council,  we 
joined  other  members  in  responding  to  the  appeals  of 
the Libyan people. The situation there is still dire, and 
we encourage the United Nations to continue to work to 
promote political stability and reconstruction efforts. 
We reiterate our condemnation of the attack on the 
United States Consulate in Benghazi. 
With regard to the ongoing tensions in the eastern 
part  of  our  brother  country  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo, our collective support for the Congolese 
State  must  be  maintained  in  security,  political  and 
humanitarian matters.
I  welcome  the  progress  made  in  Somalia  with  the 
adoption of its provisional Constitution and the election 
of the new President, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, whom 
I  congratulate  and  commend.  Gabon  will  continue  to 
help  Somalia,  as  it  did  last  year  with  humanitarian 
contributions. I commend United Nations and African 
Union involvement in Somalia. Thanks to the African 
Union  Mission  in  Somalia  and  to  Government  forces, 
security  is  improving  even  far  outside  Mogadishu.  I 
have  the  highest  praise  for  the  country,  whose  troops 
pay a heavy price on the ground.
I honour the memory of the first Prime Minister of 
Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi, who passed away on 22 August. 
All of us know of his work for peace in Somalia and the 
Sudan, his commendable tenures as Chair of the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  Heads  of  State 
and Government Orientation Committee and his focus 
on climate change.
It goes without saying that the crises and conflicts 
that continue to ravage the world constitute a profound 
betrayal  of  the  cry-from-the-heart  aspirations  of  all 
peoples  for  peace  and  security,  justice,  development 
and the equal sovereignty of States. Those cries come 
from the people of Palestine and Cuba, who long for a 
better future. One wants recognition of a State living in 
peace and security with its neighbours, within secure, 
internationally  recognized  borders,  while  the  other 
wants an end to the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  it  suffers  under.  The  General  Assembly  has 
many times spoken out on the side of those two peoples’ 
aspirations,  through  numerous  resolutions,  which  my 
country has unequivocally supported.
To fulfil the aspirations of all peoples, we need global 
governance  that  is  more  balanced,  more  democratic, 
better  structured  and  based  on  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Such  governance  must 
6 
12-52041
A/67/PV.8
be  founded  on  the  primacy  of  international  law  and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States  in  their  quest  for 
democracy and development.
Goals and the sustainable development goals enunciated 
in  the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20) (resolution 66/288). 
Throughout  the  coming  sixty-seventh  session  we 
will  focus  on  certain  priority  issues,  starting  with 
various  reforms  of  the  Organization,  especially  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly, to make it better 
able to play its part given the changes and current realities 
in  the  world.  We  must  strengthen  the  Assembly’s  role 
as an active force and as the premier forum for global 
democracy.  Likewise,  in  its  commitment  to  Security 
Council reform, Gabon continues to support permanent 
and equitable representation for Africa.
As we did during our recent tenure on the Council, 
we  will  continue  our  focus  on  mediation,  prevention 
and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  and  conflicts. 
We  believe  action  must  be  taken  before  disputes 
escalate into armed conflict, sparing the heavy expense 
of peacekeeping operations. But current realities force 
us to focus also on new, cross-cutting threats to peace 
and  security,  including  trafficking  in  small  arms  and 
light weapons and maritime piracy, which is ravaging 
the Gulf of Guinea. 
That 
is  why  we  are  working  along  with 
other  countries  in  Central  Africa  to  put  in  place 
confidence-building  measures,  including  the  early 
warning  mechanism  for  Central  Africa.  We  greatly 
appreciate  the  support  offered  by  the  United  Nations 
Regional Office for Central Africa, which my country 
hosts, in promoting peace.
During  my  tenure  as  Acting  Chairman  of  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  I  will 
emphasize regional integration as a means to common 
economic  development  and  strengthening  peaceful 
connections among member States.
We know that the conflicts shaking the world have 
numerous and complex causes. Any lasting settlement 
of  those  crises  requires  an  approach  that  combines 
support for institution-building and governance in the 
affected  countries  with  initiatives  to  revitalize  their 
economies.  Gabon  will  therefore  follow  with  great 
interest the issue of an increased role for the Economic 
and Social Council. 
Many  countries  remain  concerned  with  economic 
conditions.  We  must  therefore  rethink  our  approaches 
to sustainable development initiatives. We must reflect 
clearly on the post-2015 development agenda, especially 
on  how  to  coordinate  the  Millennium  Development 
It  is  also  crucial  to  break  the  impasse  in  the 
World  Trade  Organization  by  rethinking  the  basis  for 
negotiations. We will thereby be better able to promote 
the tripartite model of aid together with investment and 
trade towards sustainable development. 
During  last  year’s  session  I  referred  to  work 
in  progress  in  my  country  towards  the  goal  we  set 
for  ourselves  to  become  an  emerging  country  by 
2025.  Since  then  that  initiative  has  begun  to  produce 
results  in  the  creation  of  strategic  infrastructures, 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and  social,  political 
and  economic  reforms.  We  continue  to  take  steps  to 
diversify our economy through local promotion of the 
natural resources we export, which encourages wealth 
creation and employment. Those efforts must be based 
on  sustainable  management  of  our  forests  and  their 
biodiversity, which plays an important role in the global 
environment. In that vein we are fighting poaching and 
the illegal trafficking in protected species. 
I  am  also  pleased  at  the  adoption,  on  21  June,  of 
the outcome of the Rio+20 Conference, which reflects 
the international community’s recognition of the need 
to  work  together  to  promote  sustainable  development 
through the joint efforts of individuals, Governments, 
civil society and the private sector. Along those lines I 
have instructed my Government to rethink our country’s 
institutional  framework  for  sustainable  development, 
with  an  eye  to  enacting  legislation  on  the  subject. 
Gabon is also pursuing the opportunities offered by a 
green economy in eradicating poverty.
We  are  also  continuing  to  develop  our  human 
resources,  our  financial  services  capabilities,  new 
information 
technologies  and  ecotourism.  Given 
current  economic  challenges,  I  recently  instituted 
measures  to  improve  the  daily  lives  of  my  fellow 
citizens by tackling the cost of living — for instance, 
by suspending customs duties and the value added-tax 
on several basic items and building materials. 
In the social arena, we have put in place a national 
system  of  health  coverage  for  all  strata  of  Gabonese 
society. That coverage, which is part of our fight against 
HIV/AIDS,  includes  free  antiretrovirals  and  prenatal 
and maternal care for all infected pregnant women.
At the political level, we have introduced biometrics 
to  improve  the  organization  of  the  next  elections.  We 
12-52041
7
A/67/PV.8
continue our efforts to talk with all leading players in 
the  nation,  in  particular  through  the  National  Council 
for Democracy.
Together,  those  actions  strengthen  the  climate  of 
peace bequeathed to us by my illustrious predecessor, 
thereby creating an environment conducive to the well-
being  of  citizens  and  to  the  security  of  investments 
needed  for  the  development  of  the  country.  We  are 
therefore  ready  to  welcome  diversified  and  mutually 
beneficial partnerships and look forward to doing so.
Our countries and the international community as 
a whole must today overcome considerable challenges. 
Our efforts can fulfil the aspirations of our peoples only 
if we cooperate to achieve global governance based on 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  dialogue  among  peoples, 
conflict prevention, protection of the environment and 
biodiversity. Our ultimate goal must be, above all, the 
well-being of our peoples.
It is in that spirit that my country will continue to 
make its contribution both in our Organization and in 
our common work for peace, security, development and 
prosperity for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Gabonese 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President of the 
Slovak Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President 
of the Slovak Republic, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Gašparovič  (spoke  in  Slovak;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  convey  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  true  commitment  to  the  fulfilment  of 
the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
The United Nations and its General Assembly are a 
unique tool, the one and only global forum that provides 
room  for  dialogue  to  discuss  strategic  visions  and  to 
seek policy-level solutions to the problems that we are 
jointly  confronted  with  at  the  international,  regional 
and national levels. It is our obligation and moral duty 
to  search  together  for  ways  of  bringing  peace  and 
prosperity  to  all  humankind.  Conflicts  do  not  stop  at 
borders. The world we live in is so interconnected that 
every problem is a problem for all of us and every threat 
is a threat faced by all. At the same time, every success 
is of benefit to all of us.
Besides  numerous 
indisputable  benefits, 
the 
process  of  globalization  introduces  new  challenges.  I 
will  mention  just  three  challenges  encountered  in  the 
early twenty-first century: the global economic crisis, 
environmental change and man-made threats, including 
terrorism  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  need 
global  partnership  and  cooperation.  We  need  strong 
multilateralism. We need a proactive United Nations that 
can  lead  effectively  on  all  fronts:  political,  economic, 
military, social and civil. We need a trustworthy United 
Nations that people can rely upon to save them from the 
scourge of war. We need to work together towards our 
common goal: peace, security and dignity for all.
The Organization’s primary objective is to preserve 
peace and security in the world. We have been through 
an extremely challenging year full of unexpected twists 
and turns, including some severe new conflicts, grave 
violations  of  human  rights,  disease,  famine,  terrorism 
and  extremism,  as  well  as  other  threats  to  peace  and 
security,  which,  unfortunately,  we  cannot  always 
successfully  prevent.  Attacks  have  even  occurred 
against  diplomats  and  diplomatic  missions,  which  we 
resolutely condemn as totally unacceptable.
It  is  the  way  we  go  about  resolving  constantly 
occurring  conflicts  and  the  effectiveness  of  our 
responses  to  new  threats  that  tells  us  how  successful 
we are in meeting the objectives of the United Nations. 
Violence can never be the right way to settle a dispute. 
Open  dialogue,  respect  for  mutual  differences  and  a 
joint search for solutions by peaceful means is the only 
way  to  proceed;  there  is  no  alternative.  Therefore,  we 
appreciate  the  appeal  to  concentrate  specifically  on 
that  crucial  aspect  of  international  relations.  We  are 
all obliged under the Charter of the United Nations to 
resolve  disputes  by  peaceful  means  so  that  peace  and 
security are not at risk.
8 
12-52041
A/67/PV.8
The  Charter  provides  us  with  a  range  of  options, 
including negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation, 
arbitration  and  other  peaceful  means,  which  must 
be  used  effectively.  Mediation  under  the  auspices 
of  the  United  Nations  is  key  to  resolving  conflicts 
by  peaceful  means.  Reinforcing  United  Nations 
mediation  capacities,  confidence-building,  improved 
implementation of the Charter and enhanced respect for 
its provisions are central.
While the nature of conflicts evolves and changes, 
their  essence  remains  the  same  —  achieving  goals  by 
violence.  I  refer  not  just  to  military  battles.  Famine 
and  thirst  have  even  more  devastating  consequences 
than  weapons.  Unfair  distribution  of  wealth,  social 
imbalances, poverty and the feeling of injustice remain 
breeding  grounds  for  conflicts  and  disputes.  Persons 
whose basic needs are met do not seek conflict; rather, 
they seek ways of making the best of their lives. In that 
context,  I  think  that  prevention  is  the  most  effective 
tool  for  ensuring  peace,  sustainable  growth  and  a  life 
of dignity.
It  is  crucial  to  eliminate  the  primary  causes 
of  conflicts,  including  through  poverty  reduction, 
sustainable development, respect for human rights, the 
rule of law and respect for its instruments, building of 
democratic  institutions,  and  arms  control.  Those  are 
the basic building blocks of peace and prosperity. The 
United Nations, with its multipurpose focus, possesses 
the  potential  to  effectively  assist  its  Members  in  all 
those  areas.  But  it  must  be  adequately  empowered  to 
do so.
However,  we  still  differ  considerably  on  what  the 
United Nations should do, and how. Terrorism poses an 
imminent threat to every one of us, yet we are unable 
to find common grounds to describe its characteristics. 
Climate change has brought about crucial changes with 
concrete  impacts  on  agricultural  production,  yet  the 
production  of  greenhouse  gases  and  emissions  does 
not decline. The gap between the wealthy and the poor 
has  been  growing.  An  increasingly  important  role  is 
being  played  by  non-State  actors  —  multinational 
corporations and speculative investors.
The  crisis  has  shown  that  even  the  strongest 
economies  are  vulnerable.  They  are  vulnerable  when 
they live on credit, when the moral hazard goes beyond 
what  is  sustainable.  The  crisis  has  shown  that  peace 
has  its  limits  in  every  society,  whether  that  society  is 
more  or  less  advanced.  It  is  important  for  the  global 
economy  that  the  strongest  economies  are  stable  and, 
in particular, that they are aware of their responsibility 
for  global  development  and  the  sustainability  of 
social stability in the world. This is not only about the 
application  of  the  principle  of  social  solidarity;  it  is 
about the self-preservation of humankind.
We  therefore  have  to  pursue  a  common  target: 
to  transform  the  United  Nations  into  an  effective 
Organization with a leading role in a new international 
environment.  We  need  a  political  willingness  on  the 
part  of  all  Members  and  a  clear  vision  to  adapt  the 
United  Nations  to  the  global  demands  of  the  twenty-
first century.
One of the instruments for preventing conflicts is 
the  elimination  of  poverty  and  ensuring  sustainable 
development  for  all,  and  in  all  aspects.  The  United 
Nations has the necessary tools in its hands. At a time 
of fiscal constraints, we have to use the existing tools 
more effectively. We do not need to create new parallel 
or duplicate structures.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20),  we  agreed  that  we  needed  an 
inclusive,  strong  multilateral  system  that  will  be  able 
to effectively address threats in the area of sustainable 
development.  Such  a  system  is  crucial  for  enduring 
peace and, of course, for security.
We  support  Sustainable  Energy  for  All,  an 
initiative  launched  by  the  Secretary-General.  In  the 
spirit  of  the  initiative,  we  emphasize,  among  other 
things, the positive aspects of the use of nuclear energy 
in the energy and health care sectors. I am convinced 
that  priority  investments  in  research  to  increase  the 
operational safety and security of nuclear power plants 
would  be  more  useful  than  massive  investment  in  the 
closure of functioning power plants.
Slovakia is prepared to intensively and constructively 
cooperate  with  partners  in  order  to  maximize  the 
effective  functioning  of  the  United  Nations  system  in 
the  economic,  social,  environmental  and  other  areas. 
We  support  strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and more effective cooperation of the Council 
with the General Assembly and other entities across the 
United Nations system.
Slovakia  takes  seriously  its  moral  duty  to  help 
developing countries and countries in distress. We have 
less  than  three  years  to  go  to  accomplish  the  United 
Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  need 
to  step  up  our  efforts.  As  a  donor  country,  Slovakia 
contributes its share to addressing the pressing problems 
12-52041
9
A/67/PV.8
of global development. Despite its tight budget, Slovakia 
increases its total contribution to official development 
assistance every year.
A  secure  and  stable  environment  conducive  to 
development cannot be achieved without effective arms 
control and universal disarmament as the fundamental 
instruments  of  conflict  prevention.  Slovakia  is  an 
advocate  of  a  comprehensive,  universal  and  binding 
arms trade treaty. Our objective is to curb irresponsible 
dealing in arms and to prevent their transfer to the hands 
of terrorists, criminals and other illicit groups. I regret 
that the years-long efforts of States, in cooperation with 
civil society, were not crowned with success at the July 
2012  Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  I  believe 
that further negotiations will lead to a consensus on an 
effective agreement.
A  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons  is  one  of  the 
priorities long pursued by the international community. 
Although we have made some progress in this respect 
in  recent  years,  there  are  still  countries  that  are  not 
parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons.
We appreciate that a conference on a Middle East 
zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass 
destruction  has  been  scheduled  for  December  2012  in 
Helsinki. We believe that despite the regrettable turmoil 
in the region and the unwillingness of some countries to 
cooperate, we will overcome the differences and jointly 
bring the conference to a successful conclusion, for the 
sake of our common goal, namely, peace and security 
in the Middle East without the fear of nuclear weapons.
Success of the conference would also support long-
lasting efforts to drive away concerns over the Iranian 
nuclear  programme.  Rocket  tests  performed  by  Iran 
do not contribute to belief that its nuclear programme 
serves a peaceful purpose.
With  regard  to  further  improvements  in  the 
work  of  peacebuilding  missions  and  increasing  their 
effectiveness,  I  would  like  to  mention  three  aspects 
that I consider crucial: first, cooperation among United 
Nations missions; secondly, the protection of civilians 
and the contributions to monitoring human rights; and, 
thirdly, the need to prepare a strategy for the transition 
from peacekeeping to peacebuilding, that is, increased 
effectiveness 
implementation  of  security 
sector  reform.  More  intensive  cooperation  among 
peacekeeping missions will allow for effective sharing of 
funds, equipment and personnel between neighbouring 
the 
in 
missions,  as  well  as  contribute  to  improving  the 
capabilities  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces 
to  adequately  respond  to  unforeseen  situations.  The 
protection  of  civilians  is  one  of  the  main  objectives 
under the mandates of peacekeeping operations. It will 
enable the restoration of political processes in a country, 
including  the  implementation  of  measures  aimed  at 
the  disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration  of 
combatants, as well as of ordinary people affected by the 
conflict, including children. As the road from conflict 
to  enduring  peace  is  complicated,  it  is  important  that 
we  prepare  strategies  for  the  peacekeeping  forces  to 
anticipate and transfer responsibility for peacekeeping 
in a host country with the aim of eliminating duplicate 
instruments and procedures.
Last  year,  the  international  community  devoted 
considerable attention and funds to support Afghanistan 
on its road towards responsibility for its own security 
and  for  meeting  its  obligations.  Afghanistan  remains 
the top-priority foreign military operation for Slovakia. 
Our troops will stay in Afghanistan as long as necessary. 
Security  and  stability  also  depend  on  a  stable 
economy.  Therefore  we  also  wish  to  intensify  our 
involvement  in  the  area  of  development  assistance. 
Afghanistan remains one of the three primary recipients 
of  Slovakia’s  official  development  assistance.  At  the 
same  time,  we  support  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations and the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan  in  capacity-building  and  stabilization  in 
Afghanistan. Wherever in the world human lives are at 
risk,  the  international  community  should  be  prepared 
to take resolute action.
Allow  me  to  express  my  deepest  regret  over  the 
thousands of victims of the conflict in Syria. The Slovak 
Republic  has  joined  the  initiative  requesting  that  the 
most serious crimes under international law committed 
in Syria be investigated by the International Criminal 
Court.  The  primary  responsibility  for  the  protection 
of its citizens is always borne by the Government and 
democratic  institutions  of  a  country.  The  aim  is  to 
build a country governed by the rule of law, respecting 
international principles and at the same time reflecting 
traditional common law. 
Slovakia  is  committed  to  the  United  Nations 
principles set out in the Charter. We believe that the key 
to resolving global problems in today’s interconnected 
world  is  an  inclusive  and  effective  multilateralism. 
Global threats to security, the economy, the environment 
10 
12-52041
or society know no borders and are so extensive that no 
country and no regional organization can alone respond 
to or defend against them effectively.
We  believe  that,  together,  we  will  make  progress 
on our agenda during the current session of the General 
Assembly. That is what our citizens expect from us.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Slovak 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Jonathan: Let me start by congratulating 
Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have no doubt 
that under his able leadership the work at this session 
will  progress  to  a  successful  conclusion.  I  also  wish 
to acknowledge the excellent work of his predecessor, 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  who  guided 
the  affairs  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  with  diligence 
and consummate skill. I must seize this opportunity to 
applaud  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  able 
manner in which he has continued to guide and lead the 
Secretariat of our Organization. 
When  I  addressed  the  Assembly  last  year  on  the 
theme  of  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means (see A/66/PV.11), the world 
was  witnessing  important  and  dramatic  changes.  The 
Arab  Spring  had  broken  out,  setting  new  political 
standards  for  social  contracts  between  Governments 
and  the  governed.  Also,  South  Sudan,  today  sitting  at 
the family table of the United Nations, had just gained 
independence.
A/67/PV.8
Since 
then,  we  have  witnessed  considerable 
progress  and  also  some  setbacks.  Knowing  that  the 
future remains uncertain and perilous, we have always 
believed  that  much  more  needs  to  be  done  to  protect 
our  gains,  including  developing  new  strategies  for 
preventing and resolving conflicts.
The situation in Syria, which continues to weigh on 
the collective conscience of the world, is a case in point. 
Every  day  since  the  conflict  began,  innocent  people 
continue to lose their lives and livelihoods, while tens 
of thousands of others flee into neighbouring countries 
seeking  refuge.  I  seize  this  opportunity  to  call  on 
the  Syrian  people,  in  the  face  of  a  seeming  lack  of 
concerted  positive  international  action,  to  pause  and 
find  a  solution  to  the  crisis  in  a  way  that  will  benefit 
the Syrian nation.
Indeed, it was in the context of tackling the many 
crises  that  plagued  our  world  that  I  proposed  the 
establishment of a conflict mediation commission, under 
the  Secretary-General’s  Office,  to  further  strengthen 
the  early  warning  and  peacebuilding  initiatives  of  the 
United Nations. Experience elsewhere gives us reason 
to  believe  that  there  is  value  in  the  creation  of  such  a 
mechanism.  Nigeria  stands  ready  to  work  with  other 
countries  to  make  the  protection  of  innocent  civilians 
caught  in  conflict  situations  a  priority  of  the  United 
Nations.
I see a consonance between the theme of the sixty-
sixth  session  and  that  of  sixty-seventh  session  —  the 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means. Both are concerned with 
the peaceful settlement of disputes. This consonance, in 
my view, is evidence of the United Nations continuous 
and justifiable preoccupation with issues of peace and 
security.
Membership  in  the  Security  Council  in  2010  and 
2011  afforded  Nigeria  an  opportunity  to  work  with 
others to promote the complex peace and security agenda 
of the United Nations. It was indeed a privilege for us 
to  contribute  to  the  United  Nations  and  international 
efforts to make the world a safer and better place.
Nigeria  and  other  emerging  nations  continue  to 
demonstrate  the  capacity  to  add  value  to  the  work  of 
all  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council. For that reason, we must now commit 
ourselves  to  accelerating  the  long-overdue  reforms  of 
the  Security  Council.  They  will  no  doubt  make  the 
Council  more  equitable,  more  inclusive  and  more 
12-52041
11
A/67/PV.8
effective.  Nigeria  believes  that  a  reformed  Security 
Council with expanded permanent membership would 
benefit from the unique experiences and capacities that 
regional representatives could bring to bear on its work.
It  is  a  matter  of  great  concern  that  many  regions 
of  the  world,  including  the  West  African  subregion, 
are  plagued  by  political  crises  and  insurgency.  In 
some  parts  of  my  own  country,  for  instance,  we  are 
experiencing 
threats  from  extremist  and  militant 
activities with quasi-terrorist tactics. Our response has 
been multifaceted, as we seek to address the root causes 
of  those  threats,  exploring  opportunities  for  dialogue 
and improving law enforcement to ensure public safety 
and security.
International cooperation has also been a key factor 
in  tackling  our  security  challenges.  We  have  signed 
bilateral  agreements  with  our  neighbours:  Cameroon, 
the Republic of the Niger and Chad. On the multilateral 
front,  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission  has  been  an 
excellent  platform  for  cooperation.  Those  efforts  are 
aimed  at  safeguarding  the  security  of  our  individual 
countries and denying extremists the use of our region 
as sanctuary. We are confident that those measures will 
stem  the  flow  of  and  access  to  small  arms  and  light 
weapons, which have indeed become Africa’s weapons 
of  mass  destruction  and  the  most  potent  source  of 
instability. Indeed, the free flow of small arms and light 
weapons from the developed countries that manufacture 
them  to  Africa  is  one  of  the  greater  challenges  the 
continent is facing in the contemporary world. 
Nigeria continues to regard the General Assembly 
as a veritable platform for collective action to address 
issues of common interest to all nations. One such issue 
deserving  the  serious  attention  of  the  United  Nations 
is  the  adoption  of  a  legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty. 
I  believe  that  important  instrument  could  galvanize 
the  international  community  to  regulate  the  transfer 
of  conventional  weapons  and  curb  the  illicit  trade  in 
small  arms  and  light  weapons.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
the  absence  of  a  global  consensus  on  controlling  the 
flow of such weapons, including small arms and light 
weapons, is fuelling conflicts, constraining growth and 
development and increasing human rights violations. 
A  ray  of  hope  was  offered  early  this  month  with 
the  successful  conclusion  of 
the  second  United 
Nations  Conference  to  Review  Progress  Made  in  the 
Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, 
Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms 
and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,  including  the 
unprecedented adoption of an outcome document under 
Nigeria’s  presidency.  We  expect  that  those  positive 
achievements will have an impact on the entire United 
Nations disarmament process, including the Conference 
on  Disarmament,  the  Disarmament  Commission  and 
other disarmament mechanisms. 
on  Life-saving  Commodities 
The  correlation  between  disarmament,  peace 
is  axiomatic  and 
and  security,  and  development 
the  United  Nations 
self-evident.  The  work  of 
Commission 
for 
Women  and  Children  —  which  I  have  the  honour  to 
co-chair with Mr. Jens Stoltenberg, Prime Minister of 
Norway  —  recognizes  the  need  to  serve  and  improve 
the  health  of  women  and  children  for  the  benefit 
of  the  future  progress  of  the  world.  That  is  indeed  a 
laudable  achievement,  for  which  we  commend  the 
vision  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon. 
The Commission’s overarching objective is to provide 
medical  resources  and  other  life-saving  commodities 
in  a  more  affordable,  accessible  and  timely  manner, 
thereby saving the lives of at least 4 million women and 
children worldwide by 2015 and helping to achieve the 
health-related  targets  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Concerned  with 
the  unflattering 
statistics  on  maternal  and  child  mortality  in  Nigeria, 
my  Government  has  adopted  measures  for  reversing 
that  unhappy  trend,  in  close  collaboration  with  the 
Commission and the related Every Woman Every Child 
movement. 
We believe, therefore, that it is time that the world 
looked  beyond  2015  to  the  post-MDG  era.  The  year 
2015  is  not  a  destination  but  only  a  milestone  on  the 
long journey to a better, safer, healthier and more caring 
world. It is in that spirit that Nigeria will participate in 
the forthcoming intergovernmental process to consider 
the  development  of  specific  and  action-oriented 
sustainable development goals beyond 2015. 
Sustainable  development  and  progress  are  two 
ultimate aspirations of any nation, and they cannot be 
achieved  without  peace  and  security.  Guided  by  that 
realization,  Nigeria  has  committed  and  shall  continue 
to  commit  itself  to  the  attainment  of  regional  and 
international peace and security, in close collaboration 
with  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS). 
Recently,  however,  our  subregion  has  suffered 
some  setbacks  in  terms  of  unconstitutional  change  of 
12 
12-52041
Governments and the emergence of insurgency, among 
others. In Mali, the political crisis stemming from that 
reality has escalated to an insurgency that is threatening 
the  unity  of  the  country.  Nigeria  and  ECOWAS  are 
working in concert to address that threat, which has the 
potential to spill over into neighbouring countries and 
destabilize the entire region.  Guinea-Bissau is another 
flashpoint  of  instability  in  the  subregion  in  which 
Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African 
States are engaged. Indeed, the contact group, headed 
by Nigeria, was set up by the authority of the Heads of 
State  and  Government  of  ECOWAS  to  help  establish 
a  transitional  Government  with  a  view  to  returning 
that  country  to  political  and  constitutional  order.  In 
furtherance of that objective, Nigeria provided the sum 
of  $10  million  to  the  interim  Government  in  Guinea-
Bissau to assist in the stabilization of the country.
The overall security situation in the West African 
subregion should continue to be a matter of interest and 
concern  to  the  rest  of  the  international  community.  I 
believe I speak for many in the Assembly when I state 
that  West  Africa  can  ill  afford  renewed  insurgency. 
Although ECOWAS is taking measures to address the 
situation  in  Mali,  particularly  in  the  north,  the  urgent 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  support  of 
other partners will be needed to build on recent gains 
to  secure  peace  and  stability  in  Mali  and  across  the 
subregion.
Nigeria’s 
to 
long-standing  commitment 
the 
promotion  of  issues  of  particular  concern  to  Africa 
is  widely  acknowledged.  Nigeria  has  stood  firm  and 
played  critical  roles  in  all  the  recent  developments  in 
Africa,  including  the  struggle  for  independence  and 
self-determination  and  the  fight  against  apartheid, 
colonialism and discrimination. 
Today, we are in the vanguard of the fight against 
extremism, 
terrorism  and  all  forms  of  mindless 
violence. We shall remain undeterred and unflinching 
in our resolve to protect our citizens and other persons 
living within our borders and to extend such protection 
wherever we can to other countries in our region. 
We know that no country has unilaterally defeated 
the  dark  forces  of  violence  and  terrorism.  They 
evidently  represent  an  evil  that  requires  international 
collaboration. We therefore call upon the international 
community and all like-minded stakeholders to address 
the matter with all the seriousness it deserves.
A/67/PV.8
I cannot end my statement without alluding to the 
importance of the support that Nigerians are continuing 
to give to the United Nations in not only advancing but 
also  upholding  international  peace  and  security.  We 
shall  strengthen  and  deepen  our  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  in  peacekeeping  operations  around 
the world. We shall remain focused and committed to 
ensuring  a  meaningful  and  effective  contribution  to 
its  presence  and,  if  need  be,  to  crucial  peacekeeping 
operations, particularly in Africa.
The events of recent weeks have demonstrated how 
increasingly interconnected our world has become and 
the  extent  to  which  an  incident  in  one  area  can  cause 
reverberations  in  others.  The  lesson  is  that  freedom 
of  expression  should  not  be  construed  as  a  licence  to 
incitement. The freedom that we all hold dear and true 
should be exercised wisely and consciously. Freedom of 
expression and religious tolerance must not be mutually 
exclusive  but  should  be  complementary  to  each  other. 
We eschew violence and deplore needless loss of lives 
and destruction of property. We condemn the deliberate 
denigration  of  religious  and  cultural  beliefs  and 
sensitivities, which in turn leads to counter-reactions.
As  the  world  grows  in  knowledge  and  prosperity, 
so must humankind grow in maturity and wisdom. Care 
and compassion for our fellow beings must inform all 
our actions. We must ensure that no nation and no part 
of the world is left behind in terms of human progress. 
Working  together  with  commitment  and  common 
purpose, we can succeed in building an inclusive, safer 
and prosperous world for present and future generations. 
The United Nations must lead that effort with renewed 
commitment.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Christopher Jorebon Loeak, 
President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now hear an address by the President of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands.
Mr.  Christopher  Jorebon  Loeak,  President  of  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
12-52041
13
A/67/PV.8
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Christopher Jorebon Loeak, 
President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Loeak: I bring the Assembly the warm 
greeting of “Yokwe” from the Marshall Islands. 
The Republic of the Marshall Islands was born first 
in the hearts and minds of the Marshallese people, but 
we also forged our nationhood under the auspices of the 
United  Nations  flag.  The  United  Nations  is  truly  our 
second  home.  Our  unique  story,  from  United  Nations 
Trust  Territory  to  Member  State,  deserves  reflection 
by the international community, two decades after we 
were welcomed as a United Nations Member.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will 
be reviewed in three years’ time. The Marshall Islands 
is now firmly committed to making stronger progress, 
especially  with  regard  to  achieving  full  access  to 
adequate  education  and  decent  employment  and  to 
ensuring  a  sustainable  environment.  The  MDGs  are 
not  distant  figures  or  statistics.  The  MDGs  are  in  the 
faces of our Marshallese children; the MDGs are in our 
classrooms  and  hospitals.  One  of  the  most  immediate 
and necessary steps is to better integrate our bilateral 
and regional development pathways with the MDGs, to 
ensure that all efforts move in the same direction and 
towards the same common goals.
As  the  Asia-Pacific  region  rises  in  the  global 
spotlight,  so  also  must  the  Marshall  Islands.  Our 
national future is still within our grasp, and our future 
need not be so difficult if we and our partners undertake 
the hard actions needed to change it.
Today, the Marshall Islands commits to being a key 
success story in the Pacific. We will move with specific 
actions to make firm and measurable progress towards 
the MDGs and towards economic independence resting 
on  an  expanded  private  sector,  especially  in  regard  to 
our primary drivers of fisheries and tourism. We simply 
have no other alternative but to rewrite our future.
and the Pacific Islands Forum and its regional agencies, 
to  respond.  Next  year  I  hope  to  present  the  Assembly 
with a report not about our plight but about our progress.
It  is  easy,  and  indeed  rightful,  to  place  blame  on 
the  international  community,  especially  concerning 
climate  change  and  fisheries,  spheres  where  the  open 
political assurances of our partners too often fall victim 
to  their  own  self-interest  once  the  negotiating  doors 
close.  Yet  the  ultimate  burden  for  achieving  greater 
national  success  must  be  on  the  Marshall  Islands 
Government  and  the  Marshallese  people.  However 
unfair  multilateral  outcomes  may  be  to  the  smallest 
nations, we must and will do whatever is in our national 
power to assure a viable future. Nothing will stand in 
our way.
The  Marshall  Islands  is  far  from  alone.  Many 
nations  in  the  Pacific  islands  region  share  similar 
challenges.  Our  collective  Pacific  progress  must  be  a 
key pillar of the 2014  global conference on small island 
developing  States,  to  be  held  in  the  Pacific.  The  next 
summit of the Pacific Islands Forum will be held next 
year  in  the  Marshall  Islands,  and  this  meeting  will 
reveal  firm  and  dramatic  progress  not  only  towards 
basic social and environment goals, but also how a very 
real  expansion  of  public-private  partnership  will  be 
jump-started in the Pacific.
Since  1954,  Marshallese  leaders  have  visited  the 
United Nations to address the ongoing impact of the 67 
nuclear tests conducted on our lands during our status 
as  a  United  Nations  Trust  Territory.  That  is  our  first 
foreign  policy  issue,  and  it  is  more  than  a  historical 
legacy.  It  is  a  contemporary  reality  for  our  local 
communities. The United Nations authorized many of 
those tests through two resolutions, in 1954 and 1956, 
which also made assurances of our basic human rights 
and our full and safe return to our land, while today too 
many Marshallese remain nuclear nomads, still unable 
to  safely  resettle.  While  I  acknowledge  the  important 
efforts taken to date, the half-life of radioactive material 
remains  for  generations,  and  much  more  needs  to  be 
done.
We look to the future with targets in mind instead of 
generalities. I have asked my Government for specific, 
quantifiable  development  goals.  I  have  also  asked  my 
Government to list the necessary actions, to be taken by 
ourselves and by our partners, needed to achieve them. 
Today  I  am  encouraging  bilateral  partners,  especially 
our  closest  partners,  as  well  as  the  Secretary-General 
But  today,  for  the  first  time  since  the  trusteeship 
resolution of 1956, the United Nations has finally spoken.  
Earlier  this  month,  Mr.  Calin  Georgescu,  Special 
Rapporteur on human rights and toxic wastes, presented 
his  report  regarding  the  nuclear  testing  programme 
in 
to 
the  Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva.  The  Special 
the  Marshall  Islands  (A/HRC/21/48/Add.1) 
14 
12-52041
Rapporteur  has  presented  significant  findings  that 
indicate  that  the  pain,  mistrust,  progress  and  failures 
of the Marshallese people over decades have a human 
rights dimension and that the international community 
must respond with more than silence. The Marshallese 
people have paid too heavy a price for the only instance 
in  which  the  United  Nations  explicitly  authorized  the 
use of nuclear weapons.
I urge all relevant actors  —  the United States and 
the wider international community and its agencies — to 
join  with  the  Marshall  Islands  and  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum members in welcoming the Special Rapporteur’s 
specific recommendations as a way forward to ensure 
progress  on  regaining  the  very  human  rights  that 
should never have been lost. The Special Rapporteur’s 
report must not be allowed to only collect dust on the 
shelf; it should instead be a foundation for new efforts, 
particularly  with  key  international  agencies.  We  have 
no more time for well-worn accusations. The Marshall 
Islands must not fail to advance the human rights of its 
own citizens. Where old solutions have not worked, we 
must not fail to find new ones.
We  are  not  only  a  small  island  State,  but  truly  a 
large-ocean nation. Our sustainable fisheries represent 
a  primary  pathway  to  the  very  economic  strength 
and  social  development  I  have  just  called  for  today. 
Yet  our  aspirations  are  too  often  undermined  by  the 
narrow commercial self-interests of those nations at the 
Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission that 
might  otherwise  seek  to  embrace  us  as  close  political 
partners. For us, our collective Pacific development is 
not an isolated issue bound in technical jargon. It is the 
very hope and economic survival of our entire nation, 
and indeed the whole Pacific region. We realize only a 
penny of true benefit for every dollar of fishing activity, 
and  despite  scientific  warnings,  pressure  on  key  fish 
stocks has only increased, not diminished. Decades of 
global lip service at the United Nations to sustainable 
development  seems  to  be  lost  on  some  of  our  fishing 
partners.
The parties to the Nauru Agreement have become 
a  watershed  political  movement,  recently  achieving 
certification  of  a  sustainable  fishery  by  the  Marine 
Stewardship Council, which is perhaps the largest such 
fishery  in  the  world.  In  the  Pacific,  we  are  already 
deep into advancing the very sustainable development 
measures agreed to at the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20), and we are growing 
our  own  Pacific-driven  commercial  brand.  It  remains 
A/67/PV.8
to  be  seen  if  key  distant-water  fishing  nations  will 
continue  to  join  us  in  forging  a  landmark  sustainable 
fishery or if they will choose to be left on the sidelines.
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  is  among 
the  low-lying  nations  in  the  world,  and  sea-level-rise 
projections of more than a metre pose complex risks to 
our future statehood, risks that we are only beginning 
to unpack and address. Last year’s watershed agreement 
on  the  Durban  Platform,  prepared  at  the  2011  United 
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference,  has  moved  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  (UNFCCC)  into  a  new  chapter  of  a  single, 
legally binding protocol applying to all nations by 2020. 
It has also redoubled urgent efforts needed to close the 
global  mitigation  gap.  The  time  for  endless  North-
South division is now over, and the all-too-predictable 
finger-pointing must end.
But  the  world  can  no  longer  wait  for  negotiators. 
We  must  do  more  than  pat  ourselves  on  the  back  if 
we  are  serious  about  reducing  the  risks  to  our  future. 
More  action  is  needed  by  all  nations  and  all  actors  in 
all  possible  settings  and  negotiation  forums.  As  the 
Marshall  Islands,  we  have  a  national  energy  plan  and 
UNFCCC  target  to  cut  our  own  emissions,  boost  our 
efficiency  and  pursue  new  technology,  such  as  ocean 
thermal  energy  conversion,  which  can  make  us  a 
carbon-negative nation. I ask the rest of the world, will  
it also meet us in increasing that ambition? Will it come 
soon enough?
Climate adaptation poses perhaps the most complex 
challenges for a low-lying nation, but we must overcome 
them nonetheless. We cannot rely only on an uncertain 
architecture  of  global  climate  finance  to  address  the 
very  critical  adaptation  efforts  that  will  be  necessary 
for our continued survival. In the large scale — up to 
$100 billion a year — of the future Green Climate Fund 
and other efforts, our relatively modest needs can easily 
be  overlooked.  Our  increasingly  urgent  needs  on  the 
ground  can  no  longer  be  met  with  paper  studies  and 
disconnected pilot projects. Yet the Marshall Islands is 
at present heavily reliant on international assistance. We 
have  little  other  means  to  provide  for  adaptation.  The 
growing  belief,  however  wrong,  that  we  must  finance 
some of our own adaptation efforts is perhaps the most 
compelling reason to rapidly expand our private sector. 
We must also create financial security through the debt 
for  adaptation  swap  being  pursued  by  the  Marshall 
Islands and other small island nations.
12-52041
15
A/67/PV.8
The United Nations cannot fail the needs of the most 
vulnerable nations and must better harness the efforts 
of  all  necessary  actors.  The  Marshall  Islands  urges 
other nations to facilitate the meaningful participation 
of  Taiwan  within  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international  community.  Taiwan  should  be  able  to 
participate  as  an  observer  in  the  UNFCCC  and  the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization,  as  it  does 
in  the  World  Health  Assembly,  and  its  potential  for 
meeting the MDGs should be recognized.
The  international  community  must  not  fail  to  act, 
not only to address long-term threats, but also to ease 
the most immediate security concerns. Recent tension 
in  the  broader  Pacific  Rim  is  an  important  matter  for 
the Pacific Islands region, which can grow only when 
there is security and stability. I urge that those issues, 
including  that  of  the  East  China  Sea,  be  peacefully 
addressed  through  an  inclusive  dialogue  involving  all 
key actors.
The smallest nations in the world, many of which 
are in the Pacific, are beginning to play important and 
unique  roles  on  the  international  stage.  But  nations 
such  as  the  Marshall  Islands  also  depend  greatly  on 
firm multilateral action. Accordingly, they must be able 
to rely on the United Nations and its Members for more 
than symbolism. It is decisive and bold leadership that 
are so urgently needed in this international hour.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Christopher  Jorebon  Loeak,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sprent Arumogo Dabwido, 
President of the Republic of Nauru
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru.
Mr.  Sprent  Arumogo  Dabwido,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Nauru,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Sprent Arumogo Dabwido, 
President of the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Dabwido:  Allow  me  to  congratulate 
Mr. Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and also 
to commend his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his effective leadership during 
the sixty-sixth session. The President can be assured of 
my delegation’s full support and cooperation during his 
tenure.
This body was a very different place when Minister 
Paul-Henri  Spaak,  another  presidential  predecessor, 
opened the first session of the General Assembly. The 
world  had  just  emerged  from  the  most  devastating 
carnage  it  had  ever  seen,  and  the  United  Nations 
had  the  enormous  task  of  stitching  civilization  back 
together  again.  Finding  common  purpose  among  the 
original 51 Member States promised to be a Herculean 
effort — a similar endeavour had faltered only a decade 
earlier — but the stakes were far too high for failure to 
be an option. Accordingly, the Organization embarked 
in  earnest  on  the  long  process  of  strengthening  the 
rule  of  international  law  based  on  the  principles  of 
non-aggression and the sovereign equality of all nations.
It  is  a  testament  to  the    success  of  those  early 
efforts that the membership of the United Nations has 
swelled  to  193  countries  and  the  past  67  years  have 
been  a  period  of  relative  stability.  While  the  benefits 
of  multilateralism  during  this  time  were  often  shared 
unequally,  as  were  the  costs,  the  promise  of  a  more 
stable  and  secure  future  for  all  imbued  the  United 
Nations  with  the  legitimacy  it  needed  to  pursue  its 
ambitious  mandate.  But  we  must  never  forget  that  the 
legitimacy underpinning our essential work here is not 
a birthright; we must earn it. When our words become 
hollow, that legitimacy is threatened.
The  work  of  our  early  predecessors  was  one  of 
construction.  The  task  at  hand  today,  perhaps  even 
more challenging, is one of restoration. We are awash in 
unfulfilled promises stretching back decades. Barring 
a  brief  resurgence  in  the  early  1990s,  multilateralism 
has  for  the  most  part  deteriorated  into  a  scramble  for 
finite  resources,  a  destructive  fight  for  a  bigger  piece 
of the economic pie, sugarcoated with empty rhetoric. 
Look  at  the  beginning  of  any  international  agreement 
and you will find reaffirmation upon reaffirmation of 
our  non-binding  commitments  to  live  up  to  our  lofty 
ideals.  Perhaps  their  greatest  value  is  as  a  reminder 
16 
12-52041
of how often very little has been achieved. Our words 
must  have  meaning  if  our  multilateral  institutions  are 
to  remain  effective  in  addressing  emerging  global 
challenges.  Once  again,  the  stakes  are  too  high  for 
failure to be an option.That dynamic could not be more 
evident than it was in the climate change negotiations. 
This summer, we were treated to a new round of truly 
terrifying  news.  Arctic  sea  ice  dropped  to  its  lowest 
extent  in  recorded  history,  shattering  the  previous 
record by a jaw-dropping 18 per cent. Some scientists 
are  now  predicting  that  the  Arctic  Ocean  could  be 
ice-free during summer in as little as five years. The ice 
melt is already wreaking significant havoc on weather 
patterns around the globe and has probably contributed 
to the historic heat waves that struck many places this 
year.
Just  last  week,  a  new  study  found  that  half  of  all 
coral reefs could be lost with a temperature rise above 
1.2  degrees  Celsius.  The  scientists  further  concluded: 
“There  is  little  doubt...  coral  reefs  will  no  longer  be 
prominent within coastal ecosystems if global average 
temperatures  exceed  2  degrees  Celsius...”  That  would 
be devastating for the economies of small islands and 
coastal communities around the world, not to mention 
the  staggering  and  irrevocable  loss  of  biodiversity 
that would be incurred by our shared natural heritage. 
More and more studies are concluding that the door to 
limiting  temperature  rise  to  even  2  degrees  is  rapidly 
closing, if it has not closed already. 
Meanwhile,  greenhouse-gas  emissions  continue 
to climb higher each year, with no end in sight. Small 
islands may be the canary in the coal mine, but we all 
are staring a global catastrophe right in the face.
It  is  revealing  just  how  much  our  ambition  to 
address  the  crisis  has  been  downscaled  in  just  three 
years.  The  fifteenth  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  held  in  Copenhagen,  was  the 
conference  to  save  the  world.  The  United  Nations 
Climate Change Conference, held in Cancún, Mexico, 
was the conference to save the process. The Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the  Kyoto  Protocol,  held  in  Durban,  South  Africa,  it 
seems, was the conference to save the rest for later.
Instead  of  increasing  the  urgency  of  our  work  to 
respond to the growing climate crisis, we have instead 
seen  the  steady  dismantling  of  the  international 
regime  and  a  concerted  effort  to  delay  additional 
A/67/PV.8
action until 2020. Such an outcome is unacceptable. If 
multilateralism is to have any credibility, then we must 
move  to  an  emergency  footing,  and  those  countries 
with  the  greatest  capacity  must  immediately  begin 
mobilizing  the  significant  resources  necessary  to 
remake the energy infrastructure that powers the global 
economy. That must begin at the eighteenth session of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  in  Doha  with  the  reprioritization  of  pre-2020 
mitigation  ambition  and  the    mobilization  of  means 
of  implementation,  including  finance,  technology  and 
capacity-building.
Nauru’s  delegation  will  arrive  in  Doha  prepared 
to  make  its  contribution  to  the  global  effort.  We  have 
adopted  a  very  ambitious  renewable  energy  goal  of 
50  per  cent  by  2015.  We  think  we  can  achieve  it,  but 
we  will  need  climate  financing  from  international 
sources  to  do  so.  As  with  most  developing  countries, 
obtaining the means of implementation will be the key 
to unlocking our ambition.
The ultimate objective of the Convention on Climate 
Change is to stabilize greenhouse gases at a level that 
averts dangerous interference with the climate system so 
that ecosystems can adapt naturally, food production is 
not threatened and economic development can proceed 
in a sustainable manner. We should stop pretending that 
this is still within reach.
We  must  realize 
that  we  have  polluted 
the 
atmosphere  so  much  that  many  dangerous  climate 
change 
impacts  are  now  unavoidable.  Therefore, 
the  United  Nations  system  must  begin  analysing  and 
addressing the security implications of climate change. 
Climate  change  will  become  an  increasing  driver 
of  conflict  in  the  future  if  we  do  not  take  steps  now. 
Increased competition over dwindling natural resources, 
food  and  water  insecurity,  and  forced  migration  are 
just  a  few  of  the  security  issues  that  climate  change 
is  expected  to  exacerbate.  For  that  reason,  the  Pacific 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  have  called  for 
the appointment of a special representative on climate 
and  security,  supported  by  adequate  resources,  to 
begin analysing the security threats of climate change 
and  to  work  with  interested  Member  States  to  build 
their  resilience.  In  addition,  the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations  should  be  requested  to  conduct  an 
assessment  of  the  United  Nations  system’s  capacity 
to  respond  to  the  various  security  implications  of 
climate  change.  Member  States,  particularly  the  most 
vulnerable, must have confidence that the international 
12-52041
17
A/67/PV.8
community  has  the  tools  and  resources  to  respond  to 
the crisis.
because 
the  Council’s 
involvement 
in  climate  change.  That 
Some  countries  have  been  sceptical  of  Security 
is 
Council 
understandable 
current 
composition  does  not  accurately  reflect  the  diversity 
of United Nations membership. The time has come for 
this  to  be  remedied.  However,  reform  should  not  be 
limited merely to membership. The Council must also 
provide a forum for addressing the security challenges 
of  all  countries,  not  just  those  of  concern  to  the  most 
powerful.
The  United  Nations  sustainable  development 
initiatives  have  been  graced  with  an  abundance  of 
lofty  rhetoric  but  few  resources.  Many  countries, 
including  my  own,  are  not  on  track  to  meet  their 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  in  some  cases 
have  suffered  setbacks  because  of  the  recent  global 
economic  downturn.  At  the  same  time,  the  flow  of 
official  development  assistance  from  some  channels 
has  diminished,  further  jeopardizing  our  ability  to 
achieve our MDGs.
We  often  forget  that  oceans  cover  70  per  cent  of 
the Earth’s surface and that healthy marine ecosystems 
are vital to the sustainable development and sustainable 
livelihoods  of  small  islands.  For  many  of  us,  the  only 
valuable natural resource we have is our fish. It forms 
the cornerstone of our efforts to eradicate poverty and 
provide  livelihoods  for  our  people.  For  us,  fishing  is 
not just another economic sector — it is often the only 
significant  economic  sector,  and  we  must  jealously 
guard our modest natural wealth so that it can provide 
for many generations to come.
While the outcome document of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Rio  had 
few  concrete  deliverables,  it  did  capture  the  Pacific 
SIDS vision of a blue economy. If fully implemented, 
the  new  provisions  could  help  stem  the  steep  decline 
in  fish  stocks.  We  welcome  the  recognition  of  ocean 
acidification as an emergent threat, and we must work 
collectively to build the resilience of marine ecosystems 
to climate change impacts. The commitments made in 
Rio  must  be  backed  by  real  resources  so  they  can  be 
translated into concrete results on the ground.
Rio  also  infused  new  energy  into  making  islands 
a  model  for  sustainable  development  by  agreeing  to 
convene the third Global Conference on the Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States, which 
is to be held in the Pacific in 2014. The Conference will 
provide an opportunity for the international community 
to  make  good  on  the  promises  of  the  Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
Implementation by setting specific goals and mobilizing 
real resources. We call on the international community 
to provide support for the Conference and to summon 
the political will necessary to make it a success. It was 
agreed  at  the  first  Earth  Summit  that  the  sustainable 
development  of  SIDS  would  be  the  first  test  of  the 
global partnership. We must demonstrate to the world 
that this partnership means something.
A  central  aspect  of  that  work  must  be  enhancing 
the  international  system  to  better  target  the  unique 
combination  of  challenges  faced  by  SIDS,  which 
should include the creation of a formal SIDS category 
at  the  United  Nations.  It  is  clear  from  20  years  of 
experience that the current arrangements for improving 
the  sustainabIe  development  prospects  of  SIDS  are 
ineffective. We must demonstrate that the multilateral 
system  is  nimble  enough  to  evolve  in  response  to  the 
shortcomings that have been identified.
Nauru  welcomes  the  attention  that  the  theme  of 
this year’s general debate brings to the need to address 
disputes  by  peaceful  means,  and  it  commends  the 
efforts  made  by  Taiwan  and  China  to  reduce  tensions 
and  increase  cooperation.  I  call  on  Member  States  to 
support  continuing  dialogue  between  the  two  sides  of 
the Taiwan Strait and the parties concerned in the East 
China  Sea  dispute  to  recognize  Taiwan’s  positive  role 
in consolidating peace and stability in East Asia. Nauru 
urges  a  rapid  and  peaceful  settlement  of  the  situation 
in South Ossetia and Abkhazia in a manner that treats 
those affected with dignity and that respects their rights 
as a sovereign nation.
Nauru continues to support the right of Israel to live 
free  from  the  fear  of  terrorism.  We  also  acknowledge 
Palestine’s  right  to  statehood  as  part  of  a  two-State 
solution, which can be achieved only through peaceful 
means.
The challenges facing the international community 
are  great  and  can  be  solved  only  by  concerted 
multilateral  action.  President  Jeremić’s  task  and  ours 
is to begin the process of rebuilding the Organization. 
That process must restore the integrity of the institution 
entrusted  with  the  protection  of  human  dignity.  It 
was  accomplished  once  before  in  the  aftermath  of  a 
catastrophe. This time, our goal must be to prevent one. 
I pledge Nauru’s full support in that endeavour.
18 
12-52041
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Nauru for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sprent  Arumogo  Dabwido,  President  of  the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the 
Czech Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Czech Republic.
Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Václav Klaus, President of 
the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Klaus:  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
President Jeremić on his election to serve as the highest 
representative  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh session. In recent decades, his country has gone 
through a difficult period. I am sure his experience as 
the  Serbian  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  who  saw  the 
consequences  of  one  kind  of  peacefully  negotiated 
settlement  and  armed  international  intervention  will 
benefit  this  year’s  General  Assembly  and  contribute 
to  making  our  deliberations  less  formal  and  more 
practical.
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
firmly  believes 
The  Czech  Republic 
that 
international  disputes  and  conflicts  can  and  should 
be  settled  by  peaceful,  not  military,  means.  We  have 
been systematically demonstrating that for a long time. 
When the division of Czechoslovakia was taking place 
20 years ago and the situation was emotionally strained 
and painful for us, it never crossed the mind of any of our 
politicians that the problem should be addressed by any 
other than peaceful means. The difficult negotiations, 
undertaken solely by our own representatives, resulted 
in achieving a settlement that political representatives 
and,  especially,  citizens  in  both  the  newly  established 
States considered then and still consider to be a positive 
solution.
Our  experience  affirms  that  it  is  the  domestic 
politicians,  in  particular,  who  should  be  the  driving 
A/67/PV.8
force  of  negotiations  rather  than  international  teams 
or  former  political  figures  from  abroad.  The  mandate 
of  the  negotiating  parties  must  be  rooted  as  firmly  as 
possible  in  domestic  conditions  and  local  traditions. 
External observers must not succumb to the temptation 
of imposing the settlement that they themselves regard 
as  the  right  one,  but  which  is  not  in  line  with  long-
term  natural  developments  in  the  country  or  region 
in question. For a number of reasons, those inevitable 
preconditions are often not met in attempts at peaceful 
conflict  resolution.  It  is  therefore  no  wonder  that  we 
often see the opposite results to those that the architects 
of a particular settlement would have wished.
We  must  ask  ourselves  what  successful  peace 
talks  and  international  missions  are.  Do  external 
interventions improve the situation or do they make it 
worse  by  hindering  spontaneous  processes  that  could 
reintroduce stability in the region, possibly with smaller 
sacrifices compared to the price paid through external 
intervention?  For  instance,  are  the  developments  in 
Iraq, the unresolved Cyprus issue or the independence 
of Kosovo a success of the United Nations or not?
Let me say a few words about Syria. As a country 
that  has  recent  historical  experience  of  a  transition 
to  democracy,  the  Czech  Republic  wishes  Syria  to  be 
able  to  take  the  same  path.  However,  we  do  not  see 
a  feasible  solution  now.  Our  immediate  effort  must 
focus  on  helping  the  people  affected  by  the  current 
tragic situation in the country. The Czech Republic has 
already  sent  humanitarian  aid  to  Syria  and  to  Syrians 
fleeing into neighbouring countries. We have set up a 
medical  evacuation  programme  for  wounded  Syrian 
refugees. Czech experts took part in the United Nations 
observer mission in Syria. Our Embassy in Damascus 
is also providing assistance. Two months ago, the Czech 
Republic accepted the request of the United States for 
representation  in  diplomatic  and  consular  matters  in 
Syria.
There is no doubt that we must look at the situation 
in  Syria  from  a  broader  and  longer-term  perspective. 
We should know what needs to be done tomorrow and 
the day after tomorrow. I am afraid that that is the most 
important  lesson  learned  from  other  similar  issues, 
such as the recent military intervention in Libya.
Allow  me  to  affirm  that  the  Czech  Republic  will 
continue to be an active United Nations Member. The 
Czech  Republic  observes  and  applies  the  principles 
and standards of international law in its foreign policy 
12-52041
19
A/67/PV.8
their 
and  promotes 
international  application.  We 
will  support  United  Nations  activities  in  the  fields 
of  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons.  Those  issues  are  among  our  security  policy 
priorities.  The  Czech  Republic  will  continue  to  take 
part  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  as 
well as in humanitarian and development programmes. 
It  also  supports  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations, 
including the Security Council, which in 2005 began to 
work towards responding to our changed international 
environment  and  promoting  a  more  balanced 
representation of individual regions and States.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Czech 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hâmid Karzai, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Islamic Republic 
of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hâmid Karzai, President of 
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Karzai:  As  we  speak  today,  the  world 
is  being  shaken  by  the  depravity  of  fanatics  who 
have  committed  acts  insulting  the  faith  of  more  than 
1.5  billion  Muslims.  We  strongly  condemn  such 
offensive  acts,  whether  they  involve  the  production 
of  a  film,  the  publication  of  cartoons  or  indeed  any 
other  insults  and  provocations.  Such  acts  can  never 
be  justified  as  manifestations  of  freedom  of  speech 
or  expression.  Equally,  they  cannot  become  a  reason 
for  genuine  protests  to  be  used  to  incite  violence  and 
terrible losses of innocent lives.
It  is  a  matter  for  grave  concern  that  our  world 
remains strewn with daily outbreaks of violence, hatred 
and injustice. In particular, the menace of Islamophobia 
is  a  worrying  phenomenon  that  threatens  peace  and 
coexistence among cultures and civilizations. I call on 
leaders in the West, both among politicians and in the 
media, to confront Islamophobia in all its many forms 
and manifestations. It is incumbent on us all to advance 
the  cause  of  dialogue  and  cooperation,  to  fight  the 
forces of division and hatred and to fulfil the promise 
of  a  better  and  brighter  future  for  future  generations. 
We must work to defeat the forces that foment conflicts 
among  civilizations,  and  to  support  the  voices  of 
tolerance and understanding.
My  country,  Afghanistan,  is  testament  to  the 
benefits  of  multilateral  cooperation  and  international 
solidarity.  It  was  a  little  over  a  decade  ago  that  many 
countries  from  around  the  world  joined  the  Afghan 
people in our struggle for peace and against the forces 
of  extremism  and  terrorism.  At  the  time,  Afghanistan 
was a country decimated in every way. For decades we 
had  suffered,  unnoticed,  from  violence,  deprivation 
and sinister foreign intervention. Long before terrorism 
became a security threat to the whole planet, Afghans 
were  victims  of  atrocities 
terrorist 
networks from various parts of the world that had made 
Afghanistan their haven.
inflicted  by 
Looking back 10 years, Afghanistan has undergone 
a  remarkable  transformation.  Democracy  has  taken 
root;  health  services  are  accessible  to  the  majority  of 
the population in every corner of the country; millions 
of students, boys and girls, are enrolled in primary and 
higher  education.  Our  achievements  have  not  come 
about  easily,  though.  The  aspirations  of  the  Afghan 
people for security and peace have yet to be realized. As 
the  global  fight  against  terrorism  continues  unabated, 
the Afghan people continue to pay a bigger price than 
any other nation, in both life and treasure.
Terrorism  is  not  rooted  in  Afghan  villages  and 
towns;  it  never  was.  Its  sources  and  support  networks 
all  exist  beyond  Afghanistan’s  borders.  Thus  while 
the  security  of  the  international  community  is  being 
protected  from  the  threat  of  terrorism,  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  must  no  longer  be  made  to  pay  the  price 
and endure the brunt of the war. It is in deference to the 
immense  sacrifices  of  the  Afghan  people,  and  to  the 
precious  lives  lost  from  the  international  community, 
that  the  campaign  against  terrorism  must  be  taken  to 
the sources of terrorism and be results-oriented.
Today in Afghanistan, we are pursuing the cause of 
peace and an end to violence as a matter of great urgency. 
Since peace is the greatest desire of the Afghan people, 
and since we are convinced that military efforts alone 
are not an adequate strategy for ensuring security, we 
20 
12-52041
have initiated a peace and reconciliation process, which 
aims to induce all elements of the armed opposition to 
take up peaceful lives in our country.
At  this  time  last  year,  my  visit  to  the  General 
Assembly  was  cut  short  by  the  tragic  assassination  of 
Professor  Burhanuddin  Rabbani,  the  then  Chairman 
of  the  High  Peace  Council.  A  terrorist  posing  as  a 
peace emissary took his life, and by doing so dealt our 
peace process a serious blow. This year, however, and 
fortunately,  the  late  Professor’s  son,  Mr.  Salahuddin 
Rabbani, who stepped up to take the Chair of the High 
Peace  Council,  is  part  of  the  Afghan  delegation  and 
present in the Assembly today.
I  have  often  said  that  our  hand  of  peace  and 
reconciliation remains extended not only to the Taliban 
but also to all other armed opposition groups who wish 
to  return  to  dignified,  peaceful  and  independent  lives 
in their own homeland. What we ask of them in return 
is  simple:  bringing  an  end  to  violence,  cutting  ties 
with  terrorist  networks,  preserving  the  valuable  gains 
of  the  past  decade  and  respecting  the  Constitution  of 
Afghanistan. To help facilitate the peace process, I am 
asking the Security Council to give its full support to 
our  efforts.  In  particular,  I  urge  the  Security  Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1988 
(2011), the Taliban sanctions committee, to make more 
active efforts to delist Taliban leaders, as a step towards 
facilitating direct negotiations.
In  pursuing  the  path  of  peace,  we  remain  hopeful 
about the critical role that our fraternal neighbour the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  has  to  play.  Over  recent 
years,  we  have  engaged  our  brothers  in  Pakistan  in  a 
close dialogue in support of the Afghan peace process. 
It is a dialogue that we believe is critical for Pakistan’s 
own  security  and  for  the  security  of  the  wider  region 
and beyond. We are deeply committed to our brotherly 
relations  with  Pakistan,  but  we  are  aware  of  the 
challenges  that  may  strain  our  efforts  to  build  trust 
and  confidence.  Such  incidents  as  the  recent  shelling 
of Afghan villages risk undermining the efforts of both 
Governments  to  work  together  in  the  interest  of  our 
common security and prosperity.
For  the  past  two  years,  our  national  priority  has 
been to have Afghanistan’s own security forces assume 
full  responsibility  for  the  security  of  our  country  and 
our  people.  The  transition  process  will  be  completed 
by  mid-2013  and  NATO  and  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  forces  withdrawn  from  our  country 
by the end of 2014.
A/67/PV.8
Apart from advancing transition and pursuing the 
peace process, the past year has been one of significant 
progress  for  consolidating  international  commitment 
and  partnership.  In  Chicago  in  May,  we  received  the 
long-term commitment of NATO and other countries to 
training,  equipping  and  ensuring  the  sustainability  of 
the Afghan National Security Forces. In Tokyo this past 
July, the international community reaffirmed its strong 
commitment  to  Afghanistan’s  social  and  economic 
development  during  the  transformation  decade,  for 
which we are grateful.
The Mutual Accountability Framework adopted in 
Tokyo sets in place a clear structure for a more results-
oriented partnership and cooperation. We welcome the 
international  community’s  readiness  to  align  aid  with 
our  national  priorities  and  channel  assistance  through 
the Afghan budget. For our part, we have reiterated our 
determination to improve governance and to collaborate 
with our international partners to wipe out the cancer of 
corruption, whether it is in the Afghan Government or 
the international aid system.
We recognize that Afghanistan’s destiny is tied to 
the  region  that  surrounds  it,  with  respect  both  to  our 
common  threats,  such  as  terrorism,  extremism  and 
narcotics,  and  to  the  opportunities  we  must  grasp  to 
grow and prosper. In that context, the Istanbul Process 
presents a new agenda for security, confidence-building 
and cooperation across the region of which Afghanistan 
is the centre. We will spare no effort to build strong and 
lasting relations with our neighbors near and extended.
Turning  to  the  international  arena,  Afghanistan 
views  the  situation  in  Syria  with  much  concern. 
Over  the  course  of  the  past  year,  thousands  of  our 
Syrian  brothers  and  sisters  have  lost  their  lives  due 
to  an  escalating  cycle  of  violence.  We  welcome  the 
appointment  of  the  new  Joint  Special  Representative 
for  Syria  of  the  United  Nations  and  League  of  Arab 
States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. We know him very well. 
Mr.  Brahimi  is  well  respected  in  Afghanistan,  and  he 
brings vast experience and a unique ability to the task 
before him. Here, I say to the people of Syria that we 
Afghans have experienced violence ourselves, and we 
know  what  it  takes  to  rebuild  a  country.  I  hope  very 
much, on behalf of the Afghan people, that the Syrians 
will  sit  down  together  as  soon  as  possible  and  find  a 
way  to  end  the  violence,  since  it  will  be  not  easy  to 
repair.
12-52041
21
A/67/PV.8
The  continuing  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people 
has been a source of deep distress for Afghanistan and 
the rest of the international community. The people of 
Palestine have suffered immensely for far too long. We 
remain  in  full  support  of  the  realization  of  the  rights 
of our brothers and sisters in Palestine, including their 
right to an independent Palestinian State. The time has 
come for an end to the occupation and for realizing the 
just aspirations of the people of Palestine.
Finally,  reform  of  the  United  Nations  remains  an 
important  item  on  the  international  agenda.  Since  its 
inception  in  1945,  the  United  Nations  has  exercised 
a  key  role  in  promoting  a  safer  and  more  secure 
world,  improving  the  lives  of  citizens  worldwide, 
and  safeguarding  and  promoting  human 
rights. 
Nevertheless,  in  view  of  our  ever-changing  world,  we 
cannot  deny  the  fact  that  the  Organization  is  in  dire 
need  of  comprehensive  reform,  enabling  it  to  better 
reflect  the  new  challenges  and  realities  of  our  time. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long  overdue. 
Achieving  a  reformed  Council  that  is  more  inclusive, 
representative  and  transparent  must  remain  a  priority. 
We welcome the ongoing progress within the framework 
of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Mr. Kanda (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Uganda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Uganda.
Mr.  Edward  Kiwanuka  Ssekandi,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edward  Kiwanuka 
Ssekandi,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Uganda, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Ssekandi  (Uganda):  Uganda 
joins  other 
delegations  in  congratulating  Mr.  Jeremić  on  his 
election as President of this body. My delegation has full 
confidence in his ability to steer our deliberations, and 
he  can  count  on  our  support.  I  also  wish  to  commend 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his  effective 
leadership during the last session.
The international community has made significant 
progress  in  reducing  conflicts  around  the  world  over 
the  two  decades  since  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  and 
the  eventual  freedom  of  South  Africa  from  apartheid. 
However, we still face challenges arising from conflicts 
that take a heavy toll on nations and people around the 
world. The theme for this session’s debate is therefore 
timely and pertinent. We are again seeing an increase 
in conflicts brought about by unconstitutional changes 
of  Governments,  disputed  elections,  social  tensions, 
extremist ideologies and territorial or border disputes, 
among  other  causes.  We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to 
resolve conflicts and disputes through peaceful means 
and in conformity with justice and international law, as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
From Uganda’s experience over the years, conflicts 
are  best  handled,  first  and  foremost,  by  the  political 
actors  and  citizens  of  the  countries  in  question, 
following  democratic  principles  and  guided  by  the 
principle  of  equality  of  all  persons  before  the  law.  In 
cases  where  national  actors  for  some  reason  cannot 
resolve  the  problem,  then  subregional  organizations 
should step in. In the case of Africa those include the East 
African  Community,  the  Intergovernmental  Authority 
on  Development,  the  International  Conference  on  the 
Great  Lakes  Region  (ICGLR),  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community,  the  Economic  Community 
of West African States and others. The United Nations 
and  the  international  community  would  then  provide 
the  necessary  support  to  subregional  and  regional 
initiatives. 
Our recent achievements in the peace processes in 
Burundi, the Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia, among 
others, attest to the progress we can achieve by working 
together.  The  advantages  of  such  an  approach  include 
the  use  of  local  actors  who  have  more  discerning 
knowledge of the problems and those in close proximity 
and  with  a  greater  stake  in  getting  the  problems 
resolved. In addition, there is the international support 
22 
12-52041
and  legitimacy  that  the  United  Nations  provides.  The 
current  ICGLR  initiative  on  the  situation  in  the  east 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  based  on 
such  experience.  We  call  upon  the  Security  Council 
and the international community to give the necessary 
support to the decisions of the ICGLR summit held in 
Kampala  on  8  September.  That  regional  initiative  is 
aimed  at  addressing  the  root  causes  of  the  conflict  in 
eastern Congo, deploying a neutral international force 
and responding to the humanitarian crisis.
Our  preference  for  home-grown  solutions 
is 
premised  on  the  realization  that  external  influences 
or  interventions  do  not  necessarily  offer  sustainable 
solutions for the resolution of conflicts. On the contrary, 
external  interventions  often  contribute  to  a  cycle  of 
destabilizing  tendencies  —  which  is  why  we  are  still 
grappling with situations like the one in eastern Congo. 
The African Union (AU) has shown strong political 
will to resolve conflicts on the continent peacefully and 
to contribute to the maintenance of international peace 
and security. We call upon our partners to support the 
dispute resolution mechanisms, as well as the peace and 
security efforts of the AU and subregional organizations. 
Uganda’s  participation  in  and  contribution  to  conflict 
resolution  in  our  subregion,  on  the  African  continent 
and  on  the  international  scene  are  guided  by  that 
approach, which has proved to be largely successful in 
resolving conflicts and wars.
Regional  initiatives  need  to  be  complemented  by 
international  support,  including  assisting  countries 
emerging from conflict to build the requisite capacities 
for the consolidation of peace. It is also important that 
such  support  include  provision  of  immediate  post-
conflict  humanitarian  assistance  and  material  input 
for  reconstruction  and  development.  We  welcome  the 
continuing deepening of cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
in  the  resolution  of  conflicts  and  the  maintenance  of 
peace and security. This positive trend should continue, 
and every effort should be made to avoid repeating the 
mistakes of the past.
Uganda strongly believes that conflicts that might 
arise between and within countries should be resolved 
through  dialogue  among  all  the  parties  concerned.  In 
the recent past we have witnessed regrettable instances 
in which peace initiatives have been frustrated through 
the intransigence of the parties, with support from some 
members of the international community. That can only 
A/67/PV.8
be a recipe for long-term turmoil and instability in the 
affected countries and neighbouring regions.
In  our  view,  in  situations  of  armed  conflict  the 
first priority should be securing a verifiable ceasefire, 
followed by a political process involving an all-inclusive 
dialogue without preconditions. It is up to the parties, 
with the assistance of a mediator or facilitator, to reach 
a settlement that addresses their interests.
There is no doubt that resolving conflicts requires 
identifying  and  addressing  their  underlying  causes, 
which  include  social,  political  and  economic  factors 
that  are  often  deeply  entrenched  and  interwoven.  In 
seeking to resolve any conflict, national, regional and 
international actors need to adopt approaches that take 
into account the following complexities. 
First, it is important to address the substantive issues 
that give rise to conflicts in the first place, such as lack 
of  access  to  or  inequitable  distribution  of  resources, 
social  or  political  exclusion  and  other  grievances. 
The  linkage  between  development  and  security  in 
peacebuilding  is  now  widely  recognized,  and  once 
conflicts  are  resolved,  the  affected  communities  need 
peace dividends in terms of delivery of basic services 
such  as  health  and  education  as  well  as  opportunities 
for employment.
Secondly, efforts should be made to defuse the fear, 
hatred and other negative emotions that make conflicts  
intractable  and  often  violent.  We  must  collectively 
speak  out  against  intolerance  and  extremism  in  order 
to  advance  mutual  respect  and  understanding  of  the 
values and beliefs of others. Uganda condemns all acts 
of  terrorism  and  violence.  We  strongly  condemn  the 
recent spate of violence and attacks, including targeting 
diplomatic  missions  of  the  United  States  and  other 
Member States.
Thirdly,  political  leaders  and  all  actors  need 
to  forge  national  reconciliation,  including  through 
transitional justice mechanisms, as well as establishing 
truth and reconciliation mechanisms, which play a key 
role  in  promoting  durable  peace.  We  would  also  like 
to reiterate the need to increase the role of women and 
youth in the peaceful settlement of disputes, given the 
significant contribution they can make.
On 
the 
Israeli-Palestinian  question,  Uganda 
continues  to  call  upon  both  parties  to  negotiate  and 
reach  a  peaceful  settlement  based  on  a  two-State 
solution,  with  a  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side 
with Israel in peace, security and mutual recognition.
12-52041
23
A/67/PV.8
Finally, we affirm our commitment to the peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts  and  to  fostering  international 
cooperation  based  on  the  principles  of  sovereign 
equality, justice and adherence to international law.
Spain’s resolve to work in the Council with an open and 
constructive spirit, committed to peace and international 
security, the promotion and protection of human rights, 
and the search for sustainable development for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I thank the Vice-President of the Republic of 
Uganda for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Edward  Kiwanuka  Ssekandi,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey, President 
of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Government of 
the Kingdom of Spain. 
Mr.  Mariano  Rajoy  Brey,  President  of 
the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mariano  Rajoy  Brey, 
President of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Rajoy Brey (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): Allow 
me  to  begin  by  congratulating  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  am  convinced  that  with 
his  leadership  and  drive,  this  lofty  institution  will  be 
capable  of  facing  the  numerous  challenges  that  will 
arise in the next 12 months.
I  also  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser.  I  join 
others in congratulating him on his work and wish him 
all the best in his new endeavours.
Spain  believes  that  the  United  Nations  has  a 
fundamental  role  to  play.  That  is  why  I  wished  to 
participate in this general debate, the first since I took 
the  oath  of  office  as  President  of  the  Government  of 
Spain. It is always an honour for a Head of Government 
to address the General Assembly. I do so today on behalf 
of  a  country  that  is  committed  to  the  international 
community and to the pursuit of joint solutions to the 
problems we face.
The result of that commitment is our desire to serve 
once again in the Security Council for the period 2015-
2016.  In  my  statement,  I  shall  refer  to  the  reasons  for 
In  addition  to  the  serious  economic  and  financial 
situation, the international community is facing today 
more  numerous  and  more  complicated  challenges 
than  ever  before.  The  Organization  and  its  General 
Assembly are key if we are to confront them. Year after 
year, we discuss those problems here and their possible 
solutions. For that reason, I believe that we should ask 
ourselves  today  if  we  have  improved  since  last  year. 
While it might seem otherwise, I believe we have.
In  one  year,  we  have  witnessed  the  unbreakable 
will  of  the  Arab  citizens  to  consolidate  democratic 
systems in their countries. In Spain, we went through a 
difficult but successful transition to democracy. Hence, 
we know that the road is not and will not be easy. Our 
experience  can  be  useful  for  all  Arab  countries  that 
are  going  through  transition  processes.  I  reaffirm  our 
commitment to building open, inclusive and democratic 
societies  whose  institutions  satisfy  the  yearnings  for 
dignity and for the development of its citizens. In those 
processes, there is no room for movements that promote 
violence,  whatever  its  justification.  Any  attack  or 
aggression against people or institutions is unacceptable 
and deserves our most full-throated condemnation.
Last year, we also dedicated our efforts to finding 
solutions  to  the  crisis  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  and 
especially to the situation in Somalia. The difficulties 
persist,  but  Somalia  is  advancing  towards  normality. 
Cooperation  in  the  fight  against  piracy  in  the  Indian 
Ocean  is  stronger  than  ever,  and  during  our  recent 
presidency  of  the  Contact  Group  on  Piracy  off  the 
Coast  of  Somalia,  we  moved  forward  in  the  search  of 
an international response to that criminal phenomenon. 
Similarly, humanitarian efforts in that region have 
allowed  for  an  improvement  of  the  situation.  Four 
months  ago,  Spain  and  the  World  Food  Programme 
(WFP)  signed  an  agreement  to  locate  the  largest  food 
storage  facility  in  the  world  in  the  Canary  Islands. 
The  WFP  facility  will  allow  faster  and  more  efficient 
responses to food emergencies on the African continent.
Afghanistan  continues  moving  forward  in  the 
direction of stability — a road that Spain has pursued 
together  with  the  Afghan  people  for  more  than  a 
decade.  In  that  effort,  we  have  bequeathed  resources, 
infrastructures  and,  unfortunately,  the  life  of  many 
24 
12-52041
A/67/PV.8
of  our  fellow  citizens.  My  country  will  continue  to 
contribute  to  the  development  of  Afghanistan  and  its 
search for much-needed stability and security.
This  year,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  we  reaffirmed 
our  common  vision  in  favour  of  an  economically, 
socially  and  environmentally  sustainable 
future. 
Since  their  conception,  Spain  has  been  committed  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  with 
the  largest  cooperation  programme  in  its  history, 
valued  at  almost  $1  billion,  implemented  through  the 
Spain-United  Nations  Development  Programme  MDG 
Achievement  Fund.  Negotiations  are  under  way  to  set 
new goals for sustainable development and to bring the 
institutional  structure  in  step  with  that  commitment. 
Spain will maintain an active and constructive presence 
in the process.
The  fight  against  international  impunity  has  also 
seen  important  advances  this  year.  The  International 
Criminal Court initiated its first case against a Head of 
State, demonstrating that the international community 
is  closer  than  ever  to  ending  impunity  for  serious 
crimes.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  today  the  call  for  the 
universal ratification of the Rome Statute.
I would like to make special mention of the valuable 
and  increasing  role  that  Latin  America  has  played 
in  the  development  of  the  multilateral  system.  The 
achievements and progress that the region has attained 
in  the  consolidation  of  democracy,  economic  growth 
and  regional  integration  are  reflected  in  its  greater 
international presence.
Latin  America  has  shown 
its  potential  by 
strengthening  the  multilateralism  promoted  by  the 
Organization.  Spain  is  proud  to  share  in  that  spirit  at 
the  Ibero-American  summits  and  will  be  hosting  this 
year’s summit in Cádiz, Spain. That forum reflects the 
Ibero-American community’s wager on the promise of 
dialogue,  equality  and  mutual  respect,  with  our  eyes 
firmly set on the future.
I  believe  that  those  steps  forward,  among  others, 
attest to an encouraging year, despite its difficulties. It 
is proof that the multilateral system is responding to the 
present crisis and promoting respect for and the active 
protection of human rights, as well as the presence and 
participation  of  women  in  all  areas  regions.  But,  of 
course, there are problems on which there has been little 
or  no  progress  at  all  or  that  have  emerged  throughout 
the present year. Those problems deserve as much if not 
more of our attention in the 12 months that lie ahead.
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  mention  the  crisis  in 
Syria. A year ago, in the General Assembly, an urgent 
appeal was made to the Syrian regime to halt the abuses 
and crimes against its people. Despite the international 
community’s  efforts,  the  situation  has  not  ceased 
to  deteriorate.  Thousands  of  innocent  victims,  the 
unbearable suffering of the civilian population and the 
serious risk of the conflict expanding to neighbouring 
countries compel us to act. Today, I reiterate the call to 
end all violence in Syria and urge President Al-Assad 
to accept his responsibility and make way for a political 
process  that  will  allow  a  peaceful  resolution  to  the 
conflict.  We  support  the  efforts  of  the  Joint  Special 
Representative,  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  to  reach  this 
goal. The international community, the United Nations, 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  European  Union 
continue to be prepared, through different mechanisms, 
to come to Syria’s aid.
In this uncertain regional scenario, Lebanon has so 
far managed to keep itself on the margin of the spiral of 
violence, an achievement that has been reached in good 
measure  thanks  to  the  contingent  of  United  Nations 
Interim Force in Lebanon, in which Spain is an active 
participant.
Another  year  has  passed  without  progress  in  the 
Middle  East  peace  process.  We  defend  the  idea  that 
the  solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East  lies 
in  the  existence  of  two  States,  the  Israeli  State  and 
the  Palestinian  State,  living  in  peace  and  security. 
Any  delay  in  achieving  that  goal  leads  to  growing 
frustration  that  will  affect  the  rest  of  the  world.  The 
international  community,  and,  above  all,  the  actors 
involved must have the courage to adopt the measures 
and  decisions  needed  to  achieve  that  comprehensive, 
just  and  durable  peace  that  responds  to  the  legitimate 
yearnings of both peoples. My Government, committed 
to the goal of peace, is convinced that the creation of a 
viable Palestinian State is a key element in the solution 
of  the  conflict.  It  will  bring  beneficial  effects  for  the 
security  and  welfare  of  Israel,  for  the  normalization 
of  regional  relations  and,  finally,  for  the  international 
community  as  a  whole.  Until  then,  the  parties  must 
avoid endangering the viability of a two-State solution.
The  situation  in  Mali  and  the  entire  Sahel  region 
is  particularly  serious.  The  humanitarian  crisis  has 
been  aggravated  by  political  instability  and  an  armed 
revolt, which has deteriorated into terrorist movements 
that  have  caused  considerable  harm  to  the  population 
in  northern  Mali.  Spain  unreservedly  condemns 
12-52041
25
A/67/PV.8
violence and supports the efforts of the United Nations, 
the  African  Union,  and  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  to  reach  a  solution  to  the  crisis. 
Those  efforts  must  count  on  the  decisive  support  of 
the  countries  of  the  region,  whose  people  also  endure 
insecurity  caused  by  the  situation.  And  above  all,  the 
process must be led by the people of Mali themselves, 
who  need  to  overcome  their  institutional  crisis  and 
re-establish the territorial integrity of their country.
On  other  matters,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
efforts of the international community in general and of 
the E3+3 Group in particular to relaunch conversations 
with Iran with the goal of eliminating all doubts raised 
by  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
regarding  its  nuclear  enrichment  programme.  Those 
conversations  are  sustained  by  the  desire  to  reach  a 
political and diplomatic solution and are an opportunity 
that  we  hope  all  actors  involved  will  take  advantage 
of.  We  reiterate  our  appeal  to  Iran  to  comply  with 
the  relevant  resolutions  without  delay  and  to  ratify 
and  observe  the  additional  protocol  of  the  IAEA’s 
comprehensive safeguards agreement.
I would also like to express our support for the Six-
Party  Talks  as  a  framework  for  finding  a  diplomatic 
solution to the crisis raised by the nuclear programme of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We consider 
that the country must put a stop to its nuclear activities 
with military aims in a complete and verifiable manner, 
and it must comply with all Security Council resolutions 
on the matter and respect its commitments to the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
This year we have moved towards a more peaceful, 
just  and  sustainable  world.  However,  as  reflected  in 
the  cases  I  have  just  mentioned,  much  remains  to  be 
done. To achieve this, Spain will continue to work with 
the  United  Nations,  for  we  believe  that  only  through 
a concerted effort of the international community can 
we  find  solutions.  My  country’s  wish  to  serve  on  the 
Security  Council  in  2015  and  2016  responds  precisely 
to the conviction that in the Council Spain can continue 
playing  an  active  role  in  the  search  for  joint  solutions 
to common problems. That conviction is supported by 
Spain’s accomplishments to date, by our demonstrated 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  by  the  initiatives 
led  by  our  country  in  the  search  for  international 
understanding and sustainable development.
Spain  will  continue  to  contribute,  to  the  best  of 
its  ability,  to  peacekeeping  operations  by  providing 
troops  and  through  the  United  Nations  operational 
field  support  base  at  Quart  de  Poblet,  in  Spain.  Our 
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  will  remain  firm, 
as  we  actively  participate  in  those  initiatives  that  we 
have been supporting in the past few years because we 
believe  that  they  are  key  to  achieving  the  future  we 
desire.
Disarmament and non-proliferation must be shared 
objectives  for  the  entire  international  community.  We 
believe that it is necessary to reactivate the Conference 
on  Disarmament  with  an  ambitious  programme  of 
work.  Spain  also  supports  renewing  the  General 
Assembly  mandate  to  proceed  with  the  negotiations 
of  an  arms  trade  treaty.  We  will  continue  to  work  for 
a  solid,  effective  and  legally  binding  document  that 
reflects the defence of human rights and international 
humanitarian rights.
As a member of the Human Rights Council, we will 
continue to defend the undeniable link between respect 
for human rights and peace and security in the world. 
We  will  also  continue  to  work  towards  a  universal 
moratorium on the death penalty.
My  country  will  continue  to  support  negotiations 
within 
the  United  Nations  of  a  comprehensive 
convention  on  international  terrorism.  Terrorism  is  a 
vicious trait that unfortunately Spain knows very well. 
I would like to take a moment today to remember and 
pay  tribute  to  all  the  victims  of  terrorism.  In  July,  a 
High-Level  Conference  on  Victims  of  Terrorism 
was  held  in  Madrid  in  the  framework  of  the  Global 
Counterterrorism  Forum.  There  we  reiterated  that 
victims  can  plan  an    important  role  in  the  complete 
delegitimization,  in  both  social  and  moral  terms,  of 
terrorism.  I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  support  of    the 
Secretary-General and of the President of the General 
Assembly in this task.
to  promote 
We  will  continue 
the  goals  of 
UN-Women, after a first year full of work and results. 
In  that  regard,  Spain,  which  has  been  the  biggest 
donor to this entity during its first year, maintains its 
commitment to equality between men and women and 
to the efforts to put an end to violence against women 
and girls.
My  country  is  a  firm  defender  of  dialogue  and 
the  use  of  peaceful  means  to  resolve  controversies. 
For  that  reason,  next  Friday,  together  with  Morocco, 
we  will  present  an  initiative  to  promote  mediation 
and  to  develop  national  and  local  capacities  in  the 
26 
12-52041
Mediterranean  basin.  The  initiative  will  be  the  first 
embodiment in that region of resolution 65/283 and of 
the  work  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Group  of 
Friends of Mediation.
Spain  maintains  its  active  commitment  to  a  just, 
enduring and mutually acceptable political solution to 
the dispute in Western Sahara, a solution that provides 
for  the  self-determination  of  the  Saharan  people  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  and  objectives  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  As  a  member  of  the 
Group of Friends, Spain firmly supports the work of the 
Secretary-General, his Personal Envoy and the United 
Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara.
Between  countries  that  are  friends  and  allies,  as 
is  the  case  between  Spain  and  the  United  Kingdom, 
a  direct  and  sincere  dialogue  should  make  it  possible 
to  overcome  any  differences.  Therefore,  I  would 
like  to  call  upon  the  United  Kingdom  to  renew  the 
bilateral dialogue on the decolonization of Gibraltar in 
accordance with the parameters indicated by the United 
Nations  and  enshrined  in  the  Brussels  Declaration  of 
1984. We have already lost too many years.
The  efforts  of  the  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations will not be sufficient if they are not accompanied 
by the necessary adaptation of the United Nations to the 
current  world.  The  Secretary-General  has  launched  a 
process aimed at reforming the Organization, which my 
country  is  following  closely.  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
that Spain supports his efforts, and we call upon the rest 
of the Member States to continue their open dialogue on 
his  proposals,  analysing  them  without  any  prejudices 
and showing sufficient courage to break with the status 
quo when necessary.
In that regard, I should like to reiterate our support 
for the reforms of the Secretary-General in the area of 
peacekeeping  operations.  Likewise,  Spain  is  a  strong 
driving  force  behind  the  Delivering  as  One  initiative, 
which is an essential undertaking aimed at modernizing 
the United Nations system, improving its effectiveness 
and  efficiency  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and 
inequality,  and  thereby  making  it  possible  to  do  more 
with less. Proof of Spain’s commitment to that initiative 
is the fact that my country has been the largest donor 
thereto, providing more than half of the total funding.
Lastly,  the  Security  Council  must  also  adapt, 
as  quickly  as  possible,  to  the  realities  of  the  twenty-
first century, which are very different from those that 
existed  when  it  was  created.  In  the  coming  months, 
A/67/PV.8
we will continue to be open to dialogue on this issue, 
and  we  hope  that,  under  the  leadership  of  President 
Jeremić, we will be able to find common ground among 
the  different  positions  on  the  issue  on  which  we  can 
build  a  new  Security  Council  that  is  more  effective, 
inclusive, representative and responsible to the General 
Assembly.
We  are  facing  many  challenges.  Spain  is  strongly 
determined to contribute to those efforts so that in 12 
months, when we meet here again, the list of problems 
before us is shorter and we can have a United Nations 
that  is  more  effective  and  efficient  than  it  was  a  year 
previously.  The  United  Nations  will  continue  to  be  a 
guarantor  of  international  peace  and  security,  and  a 
driving force for the protection of human rights and the 
promotion  of  sustainable  development  for  our  future 
and  that  of  our  children.  The  General  Assembly  can 
count on Spain to participate in that endeavour with the 
same determination as always.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Mariano  Rajoy  Brey,  President  of 
the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Kay Rala Xanana Gusmão, 
Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic 
of Timor-Leste
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana  Gusmão,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana 
Gusmão, Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of 
Timor-Leste,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Gusmão (Timor-Leste) (spoke in Portuguese; 
English  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great 
pleasure for me to address this great General Assembly 
for the second year in a row.
12-52041
27
A/67/PV.8
Last September, I tried to convey to the Assembly 
a  message  of  progress  and  hope.  Today  I  bring  from 
the  people  of  Timor-Leste  a  message  of  both  joy  and 
thankfulness.
The  United  Nations  has  been  in  Timor-Leste 
since  the  difficult  times  of  our  emancipation,  having 
led  the  popular  consultation  of  1999.  Since  then, 
it  has  been  enormously  challenging  to  build  from 
scratch  the  foundations  of  a  new  State  under  the  rule 
of  law,  based  on  democratic  governance  and  respect 
for  human  rights.  As  such,  after  the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  East  Timor,  we  had  missions  such  as  the 
United  Nations  Transitional  Administration  in  East 
Timor, the United Nations Mission of Support in East 
Timor,  the  United  Nations  Office  in  Timor-Leste  and 
the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste 
(UNMIT)  accompanying  us  in  this  crucial  journey 
of  State-building,  as  well  as  in  the  creation  of  an 
atmosphere of reconciliation and harmony, with a view 
to achieving peace and stability.
In our still-brief existence as a State, we have been 
trying  to  learn  from  the  errors  of  the  past.  Today  I 
can say that we have decisively moved away from the 
difficult  circumstances  that  characterize  post-conflict 
countries  or,  in  other  words,  countries  with  recent 
histories of conflict and violence.
We have come to understand — along with several 
countries  —  that  peace  and  stability  are  essential 
prerequisites  for  State-building.  This  year,  2012, 
therefore marks not exactly the end of a chapter in our 
history  of  peacebuilding  but,  more  particularly,  the 
start of a new one — a chapter of ongoing institutional 
strengthening  with  the  goal  of  boosting  national 
development.
After two rounds of presidential elections, in March 
and  April,  our  people  elected  as  the  third  President 
of  the  Republic  Major-General  Taur  Matan  Ruak,  a 
historic  figure  in  the  struggle  for  liberation,  who  has 
been  serving  the  motherland  since  1975.  Taur  Matan 
Ruak  led  the  armed  resistance  and  became  Chief  of 
Defence Forces in 1999.
In May, we had the pleasure of hosting five heads 
of State and many delegations from friendly countries 
to  celebrate  with  us  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
restoration of our independence. That took place within 
an atmosphere of peace, stability and confidence in the 
future.
The landmark moment of the celebrations was the 
constitutional transfer of power from the then President 
of the Republic, Mr. José Ramos-Horta, to the new head 
of  State,  in  a  highly  dignified  manner  for  our  young 
democracy.
On 7 July, the Timorese people were called to vote 
once  again,  and  on  30  July,  the  new  Parliament  took 
office.  As  a  result  of  those  elections,  three  parties 
were  chosen  to  ensure  the  governance  of  Timor-Leste 
from  2012  to  2017.  Consequently,  on  8  August  the 
Fifth  Constitutional  Government  was  sworn  in  and 
given the mission of continuing to consolidate the vital 
institutions of a peaceful and democratic nation. In that 
way, we will also be continuing the work done by the 
previous Government, which consisted of a five-party 
coalition and undoubtedly sowed the seeds for national 
peace and stability, in addition to boosting our economy.
During the course of this year, we have also been 
honoured with visits by several eminent personalities, 
including  two  high-level  dignitaries:  in  August,  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Ban  Ki-moon, 
decided  to  see  for  himself  the  changes  that  had  taken 
place in our country since his last visit five years ago. 
His visit was a magnificent gesture of support by a man 
with a broad vision of peace and development, a vision 
that is shared by the Timorese people. The Secretary-
General  acknowledged  the  progress  made  and  spoke 
words of encouragement regarding the strengthening of 
the ties of cooperation between the United Nations and 
Timor-Leste  in  an  important  undertaking,  Education 
First, which is part of his global education initiative.
More recently, we also had the pleasure of hosting the 
United States Secretary of State, Mrs. Hillary Clinton. 
That  was  the  first  time  that  a  senior  representative  of 
the  United  States  Government  had  visited  our  young 
country.  Mrs.  Clinton  also  conveyed  an  important 
message  of  confidence  and  solidarity,  praising  the 
strong  commitment  by  Timor-Leste  to  the  values  and 
principles  of  democracy  and  good  governance.  Those 
events are even more important given that UNMIT and 
the International Stabilization Force will withdraw by 
the end of 2012. That will mark the end of peacekeeping 
operations in Timor-Leste.
All this has instilled in the hearts of the Timorese 
people  a  very  special  feeling  of  accomplishment  and 
national pride. I would like to convey that feeling of joy 
and thankfulness to all countries Members of the United 
Nations and to the various international organizations 
28 
12-52041
that have provided us with ongoing support in terms of 
consolidating peace, democracy and human rights.
The  President  of  the  Republic,  Taur  Matan  Ruak, 
has asked me to make public that on 20 May 2013 the 
Timorese  State  will  be  honouring,  with  the  highest 
insignia  of  Timor-Leste,  all  countries  and  parties 
that  have  taken  part  in  missions  in  Timor-Leste, 
starting  with  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council. For our people, that will be an act of profound 
recognition, expressing the wish that from now on the 
United Nations will pay more attention to our brothers 
and sisters in need. The success of Timor-Leste belongs 
to everyone — to the international community for their 
dedicated  support  and  solidarity,  and  to  the  Timorese 
people  for  the  courage  to  acknowledge  their  mistakes 
and for their firmness and determination in correcting 
them.
Throughout  the  past  four  years,  our  people  have 
clearly said no to conflict in order to fully embrace the 
aspirations  of  their  own  development.  The  Timorese 
people were also able to display a high degree of political 
maturity by expressing, in a peaceful and constructive 
manner,  renewed  confidence  in  their  elected  leaders 
and  in  State  institutions.  All  of  this  is  essential  for 
reaffirming  that,  today  more  than  ever,  we  are  ready 
to  continue  leading  the  national  development  process, 
including the full establishment of our democratic State 
under the rule of law and the gradual implementation of 
the Strategic Development Plan 2011-2030.
However,  we  want  to  maintain  strong  ties  with 
the  United  Nations  and  other  partners  under  a  new 
cooperation  framework,  taking  as  a  starting  point 
the  current  needs  of  the  country  in  both  institutional 
strengthening and in the development sector. Based on 
the  principles  of  the  New  Deal,  which  are  advocated 
by  the  group  of  seven  plus  (g7+),  we  hope  to  see 
relationships  of  cooperation  being  established  in  an 
innovative, dynamic and effective manner.
After  overcoming  the  main  obstacles  in  terms  of 
State-building,  Timor-Leste  is  now  looking  to  the 
future with optimism. Consequently, the Government’s 
programme  for  the  2012-2017  mandate,  which  has 
already been endorsed by Parliament, establishes short-
term  —  five  years  —  activities,  lists  sectors  where 
activities can be started in order to have impacts in the 
medium term of 5 to 10 years, and includes objectives 
for the long term of 10 to 20 years , to be implemented 
according to priorities and execution time.
A/67/PV.8
We will continue to invest in social capital with the 
aim  of  building  capacity  and  of  dignifying  Timorese 
citizens  by  maximizing  the  quality  of  and  access  to 
health,  education,  professional  training,  information, 
social  justice  and  culture.  We  will  invest  in  basic 
infrastructures, which will be the driving force of the 
country’s development. We will develop the economic 
sector to make better use of our potential and to create 
employment.  We  will  encourage  the  growth  of  the 
private sector, both local and foreign. We will continue 
our  efforts  to  consolidate  the  institutional  framework 
so  as  to  improve  the  functioning,  management  and 
implementation of programmes. That includes a strong 
public  sector,  good  governance  and  a  credible  system 
of justice.
Meanwhile, we will improve the social programmes 
that cater to our most vulnerable citizens, including the 
disabled, the elderly, and women and children at risk, in 
order to ensure that no Timorese citizen is marginalized 
or socially excluded. We will also continue to dignify 
our veterans.
Today  we  have  a  plan,  a  vision  and  a  goal:  to 
transform  Timor-Leste  from  a  low-income  country  to 
a medium-high-income one by 2030. We want to be a 
prosperous and safe nation with a healthy and educated 
population, a country that provides skilled employment 
for all.
However,  in  the  short  term,  by  2015,  Timor-Leste 
will  not  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
The  current  major  challenge  for  Timor-Leste  is  the 
fight  against  poverty  —  a  challenge  that  we  share 
with over one billion people in our planet. Regrettably, 
around  20  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  live  in 
conditions of extreme poverty. Hunger and the lack of 
access  to  water  sources  will  remain  insurmountable 
challenges. Mothers and children throughout the world 
will continue to die tragically due to lack of access to 
services to meet the most basic needs.
Unfortunately, those are the current projections for 
2015. For that reason, it was very timely of the Secretary-
General  to  create  a  high-level  panel  to  help  establish 
new  guidelines  for  beyond  2015.  Here,  I  must  confess 
that  we  were  proud  to  see  a  Timorese  woman  —  our 
Minister of Finance, Emilia Pires — deservingly chosen 
as  a  panel  member.  Timor-Leste  wants  to  contribute 
to  the  debate  on  that  issue  in  a  clear  and  constructive 
manner.  It  is  urgent  to  address  the  structural  factors 
12-52041
29
A/67/PV.8
that  have  hindered  the  efforts  that  so  many  people  of 
goodwill have made without obtaining tangible results.
We have a historical opportunity to change things. 
We  can  learn  from  the  lessons  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  process,  analysing  what  worked 
and  what  did  not,  in  order  to  do  better  in  the  future. 
Strengthening the role of the United Nations is essential. 
However,  it  will  require  the  courage  to  break  with 
the  old  way  of  handling  things.  We  need  new  action 
paradigms  and  new  coordination  mechanisms  so  that 
programmes may truly benefit the people of the more 
affected countries.
The g7+ was created in April 2010 in Dili, during 
the  preparation  for  the  International  Dialogue  on 
Peacebuilding  and  Statebuilding,  which  took  place  in 
Timor-Leste. Prior to the creation of the g7+, there was 
no  mechanism  whereby  fragile  States  with  common 
concerns  about  peace  and  development  could  discuss 
such  matters  in  a  less  subservient  way  than  in  their 
relationships with donors and development agencies.
It  is  quite  common  for  recipient  countries  to 
consider  that  the  international  assistance  they  receive 
is  not  the  most  appropriate  to  meet  their  real  needs. 
Countries  complain  of  the  lack  of  an  accountability 
system  in  relation  to  the  money  that  is  actually  spent 
on the poor, compared to the amounts spent to improve 
the  well-being  of  those  who  manage  the  projects  and 
those  who  manage  the  reports  on  the  projects,  long 
documents  that  are  irrelevant  because  they  are  out  of 
touch with the reality on the ground. For those reasons, 
in a true spirit of openness and sharing, with a common 
desire to improve the living conditions of their people 
and to contribute to sustainable peace and development, 
fragile  countries  created  the  g7+  as  an  international 
group through which they could speak with one voice. 
Yes, we say one voice. Speaking as one, we will be able 
to demand responsibility from the leaders of beneficiary 
countries and also accountability to the taxpayers of the 
donor countries.
Those are the same reasons why we are advocating 
the New Deal, which seeks to ensure better coordination 
and ownership of international assistance by recipient 
countries. We want assistance to have genuine impacts 
on the people and to correspond better to the true needs 
of the beneficiary populations. 
Timor-Leste is fully committed to leading the g7+, 
bringing the same commitment it showed when moving 
from a situation of conflict and fragility to a situation 
of social and political peace and stability. We want to 
contribute  in  a  way  that  is  sound  and  based  on  actual 
experiences  in  the  g7+  itself.  We  are  a  small  country 
that  is  still  fragile  in  some  aspects,  but  we  share  the 
same huge concerns of the 17 nations that make up our 
group, with a total population of more than 300 million 
people.
We  have  seen  how  intolerance  causes  irreparable 
destruction  in  several  parts  of  the  world,  particularly 
in the daily lives of innocent people. The brunt of the 
impact  is  borne  by  women,  mothers,  children  and  the 
elderly, making them even more vulnerable. Intolerance 
breeds hatred and the desire for vengeance. The world 
is not changing so much as it is destroying itself.
Consolidating  the  gains  of  the  Arab  Spring  is 
proving  to  be  difficult.  Syria  is  a  terrible  example  of 
internal conflict. Iraq and Afghanistan do not present 
better perspectives of being able to solve their internal 
differences, which are becoming deeper.
My  good  friend  Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono, 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  has  been 
hosting  the  Bali  Democracy  Forum,  which  has  been 
attracting  greater  interest  each  year,  along  with  an 
increasing  number  of  participating  countries.  We 
have always maintained in that Forum that democracy 
cannot  be  imposed  upon  people,  for  the  same  reasons 
that solar panels cannot be imposed on homes without 
food, which therefore have no prospect of sustainability. 
Democracy must be an internal process. The process is 
sometimes long, but it is vital for a lasting solution. 
The most recent, dynamic and inspirational example 
comes from Myanmar. I commend Aung San Suu Kyi, a 
woman with an unshakeable character, a born leader, a 
resolute democrat and a defender of peaceful solutions, 
who  is  today  an  advocate  for  internal  reconciliation. 
I  also  commend  the  leaders  of  Myanmar  for  their 
courage  in  making  changes  in  the  country.  On  behalf 
of  the  people  of  Timor-Leste,  I  also  salute  the  people 
of Myanmar and wish them prosperity, and I appeal for 
dialogue, reconciliation and tolerance.
Today’s  world  faces  very  serious  problems  and 
is  sliding  towards  an  increasingly  dangerous  lack  of 
control. In addition to a recent atmosphere of regional 
instability,  environmental  threats  continue  to  grow, 
hindering  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  emerging  and 
developing  countries  to  benefit  from  their  natural 
resources. In the Pacific region, some island States see 
their very survival at risk.
30 
12-52041
A/67/PV.8
Food  security  concerns  are  also  coming  to  the 
foreground  as  a  further  result  of  climate  changes, 
requiring careful thought and an immediate and broad 
strategy. In several parts of the world we see an immoral 
increase  in  inequality,  with  a  rich  and  powerful  elite 
dominating  the  globe  with  impunity  while  the  poor 
become  even  poorer  and  eternally  dependent  on 
wasteful  assistance.  What  is  more,  it  is  difficult  to 
know from where that assistance will come.
In order to meet these challenges, we need a strong 
and  efficient  United  Nations  that  cooperates  more 
effectively with international and regional organizations 
and that operates with great respect for the sovereignty 
of  each  State.  The  United  Nations,  which  consists  of 
all of us here today, has a duty to humanity. We should 
all  acknowledge  that  we  are  the  privileged  agents  of 
the  necessary  collective  change  to  a  better  and  safer 
world. Our collective efforts to preserve peace, security 
and  human  dignity  must  be  translated  from  altruistic 
idealism  to  a  more  interventionist  plan.  That  in  turn 
means replacing a reactive agenda with a proactive one. 
It also means reducing the dominance of political and 
economic interests in favour of social and humanitarian 
interests.  That  requires  the  mobilization  of  public 
opinion  around  the  world  through  dialogue  about  the 
values  of  peace  and  harmony  among  civilizations  and 
cultures, mutual respect among societies, and tolerance 
among groups.
We  can  also  start  with  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  should  be  more  representative.  There 
is  an  imperative  need  to  renew  mindsets  by  the 
incorporation  of  new  members,  so  as  to  energize  new 
commitments and responsibilities reflecting the current 
situations in today’s world.
Timor-Leste  has  been  walking  the  corridors  of 
the  United Nations  for  38  years.  In  the beginning, we 
wanted  to  mobilize  public  opinion  in  favour  of  our 
cause  and  to  warn  the  world  that  our  fundamental 
rights  were  being  violated.  Today,  we  are  informing 
the  international  community  of  our  setbacks  and 
achievements in the construction of a sovereign State. 
When we were guerrilla fighters in the mountains, we 
heard  about  a  new  world  order.  Today,  many  people 
are  still  oppressed  because  they  suffer  in  one  way  or 
another. We are here to speak in favour of dialogue and 
fair  decision-making.  Human  dignity  must  be  at  the 
core of decisions on problems affecting our planet. We 
must have an overall sense of the existence, the fears, 
the suffering, the despair and the fight for survival of 
men and women around the world.
Today  we  are  here  to  ask  for  honest,  constructive 
and  unceasing  dialogue  to  solve  the  problems  that 
trouble the world — a dialogue encompassing problems 
large and small, conflicts large and small and nations 
large and small. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana  Gusmão,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 9.50 p.m.
12-52041
31
