United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
51st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 11 December 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.51
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Salam 
(Lebanon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
Commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of 
the opening for signature of the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea
Mr.  Martinez  Moreno  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  El  Salvador,  which  is  one  of  the  few  States 
to  have  signed  but  not  ratified  the  Convention  we  are 
celebrating today, believes that the Convention largely 
ref lects  the  aspirations  of  humankind  to  a  just  and 
balanced  legal  regime  and  that  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention  already  constitute  norms  of  customary 
international law that should be universally respected.  
My  country  therefore  welcomes  the  30  years  during 
which that illustrious Convention has made a substantial 
contribution  to  developing  useful  legal  principles, 
preserving  the  resources  of  the  sea  and  maintaining  a 
peaceful  system  for  the  settlement  of  disputes,  all  for 
the benefit of a better and more just world.
At  this  important  juncture  for  the  world,  our 
commemoration  of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the 
delegation of El Salvador regrets to inform the Assembly 
that, on 5 January in San Salvador, one of the architects 
of the new law of the sea, Mr. Reynaldo Galindo Pohl, 
passed  away.  Mr.  Galindo  Pohl  distinguished  himself 
through  his  accomplished  contributions  to  the  debates 
held in various committees on the seabed and the law of 
the sea and as the Chairman of the Second Committee 
of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law 
of  the  Sea,  which  he  presided  over  with  dignity  and 
impartiality, earning the overall respect of delegations. 
His contribution to the development of the law of the 
sea legislation covered many different matters. Perhaps 
his greatest contribution was his promotion of balanced 
solutions on the nature and extension of maritime zones, 
which he achieved in a difficult atmosphere of clashing 
positions,  where  much  was  at  stake.  Even  when  faced 
with  countless  proposals  that  took  antagonistic  and 
sometimes  completely  opposite  positions,  he  was  able 
to  hold  serious  discussions  that  gradually  led  to  the 
reconciliation  of  the  various  positions  until  generally 
accepted  norms  were  reached  and  included  in  the 
great  Convention  signed  in  Montego  Bay.  The  many 
proposals made by that illustrious Salvadorean official, 
which  were  always  scientifically  sound,  were  largely 
accepted owing to their just and balanced nature.
The delegation of El Salvador would like to recall 
the contribution of Mr. Galindo Pohl to the development 
of  the  concept  of  the  sea  as  the  common  heritage  of 
humankind  aimed  at  ensuring  that  the  exploration  for 
and use of resources in that region would be dedicated 
to peaceful ends and the benefit of all States, including 
landlocked  States,  thus  contributing  to  the  economic 
well-being  of  all  of  humanity,  in  particular  the 
developing countries.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64245 (E)
*1264245*
A/67/PV.51
delegation 
believes 
The  Salvadorean 
that 
Mr.  Galindo  Pohl,  in  his  wisdom,  helped  develop  the 
doctrine of the law of the sea. His treatises on innocent 
passage  and  the  freedom  of  navigation,  on  the  regime 
for the exploration and exploitation of the international 
seabed area and on the resolution of disputes related to 
the  law  of  the  sea,  among  other  studies,  were  praised 
at  the  time  by  many  specialists,  who  welcomed  their 
legal  rationalism  and  balance  in  reconciling  positions 
that were sometimes diametrically opposed. 
In this meeting today, the delegation of El Salvador 
would  like  to  state  that  it  believes  that,  just  as  basic 
justice is an imperative, respect is due to those jurists 
like  Reynaldo  Galindo  Pohl,  who,  as  men  of  science 
and  conscience,  contributed  to  ensuring  that  the 
legal  regime  of  the  sea  was  founded  on  principles  of 
international equity. Mr. Galindo Pohl deserves respect 
not only from his homeland, which he made proud with 
his  exemplary  conduct  and  legal  and  philosophical 
erudition and which has already recognized him for it, 
but  also  from  the  international  community,  which  he 
served with such singular dedication.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): It is indeed a great honour 
for  me  to  be  speaking  today  as  we  commemorate  the 
thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature  of 
the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea (UNCLOS). It would be an understatement for me 
to say that the Convention has served as an important 
framework for the governance and management of the 
sea. It is the most comprehensive instrument governing 
the conduct of States and the use of oceans.
At  this  juncture,  we  would  like  to  align  ourselves 
with the statement delivered at the 49th meeting by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States  for  the 
month of December. I would like to thank Mr. Tommy 
Koh, President of the Third United Nations Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  for  his  statement  at  the  same 
meeting.  My  delegation  would  also  like  to  pay  a 
special  tribute  to  the  late  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo 
of  Malta  and  the  late  Ambassador  Hamilton  Shirley 
Amerasinghe  of  Sri  Lanka  for  their  outstanding  and 
remarkable  contributions  to  the  development  of  the 
process of managing the oceans and all its resources and 
related to the international law of the sea. Our deepest 
appreciation also goes to the Division for Ocean Affairs 
and the Law of the Sea for its contribution throughout 
the years.
Making  up  more  than  70  per  cent  of  the  Earth’s 
surface,  the  ocean  is  the  largest  component  of  Earth’s 
surface.  It  is  essential  for  the  very  existence  of 
humankind. In today’s world, it is not only a source of 
life, a provider of food and a means for transportation, 
but  also  a  source  of  minerals  and,  more  recently, 
thanks  to  new  technology,  an  ever-growing  provider 
of  clean  water  and  energy.  Because  of  the  ocean’s 
vastness,  it  used  to  be  thought  that  their  resources 
were  inexhaustible.  However,  with  the  growing  needs 
of  people  for  food,  energy  and  resources,  even  the 
great  oceans  require  protection.  Furthermore,  since 
time  immemorial,  the  oceans  and  seas  have  been  a 
source  of  conf lict  and  wars.  It  is  for  that  reason  that, 
30  years  ago,  the  international  community  agreed  on 
a comprehensive legal regime to govern the conduct of 
people and nations in the use of oceans and seas. It is 
most fitting, therefore, that UNCLOS be known as the 
constitution of the oceans.
Malaysia  signed  the  Convention  on  12  December 
1982,  together  with  109  other  countries,  when  it 
was  first  opened  for  signature,  and  we  ratified  it  on 
14 October 1996. As a State party, Malaysia has always 
implemented  and  continues  to  implement  the  various 
provisions under UNCLOS faithfully.
With a coastline of 4,492 kilometres and extensive 
maritime boundaries with a number of its neighbours, 
we  have  conducted  maritime  boundaries  negotiations 
with  our  neighbouring  countries  through  peaceful 
means,  in  accordance  with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
recognized principles of international law, particularly 
the  Convention.  Malaysia  has  also  demonstrated  and 
made  use  of  the  provisions  under  UNCLOS  regarding 
the  settlement  of  disputes.  Our  clear  adherence  to  the 
arbitration  processes  in  settling  disputes  was  evident 
in the Case concerning sovereignty over Palau Ligitan 
and  Palau  Sipadan,  and  in  the  Case  concerning 
sovereignty  over  Pedra  Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh, 
Middle Rocks and South Ledge before the International 
Court of Justice. In both cases, Malaysia has respected 
the decisions of the Court, irrespective of whether the 
decisions favoured Malaysia or otherwise.
Closer to home, the Strait of Malacca is one of the 
most  important  international  waterways  connecting 
the  Indian  Ocean  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  Owing  to  the 
positive growth and relevance of the Strait in facilitating 
international  trade,  it  continues  to  pose  a  variety  of 
challenges  to  balancing  the  economic  viability  and 
the  environmental  sustainability  of  the  area.  For  that 
2 
12-64245
reason,  in  line  with  Part  III  of  UNCLOS,  entitled 
“Straits  Used  for  International  Navigation”,  Malaysia 
has put in place its traffic separation scheme and aids to 
navigation in order to maintain safety and security for 
passage through the Strait. The Cooperative Mechanism 
on Safety of Navigation and Environmental Protection 
in  the  Straits  of  Malacca  and  Singapore  was  also 
established with two other littoral States, as a practical 
and  effective  framework  for  international  cooperation 
in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore.
To  conclude,  Malaysia  will  continue  to  support 
work on international oceans and the Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, including its underlying provisions. The 
fact  that  164  of  our  Member  States  are  States  parties 
to  UNCLOS  proves  its  relevance  and  importance. 
It  is  a  comprehensive  testament  to  international  law-
making  in  the  twentieth  century.  Malaysia  notes  the 
establishment  and  operation  under  UNCLOS  of  three 
important  organs  to  facilitate  a  unified  international 
marine order — the International Tribunal for the Law 
of the Sea, the International Seabed Authority and the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
(CLCS).  On  that  note,  I  am  pleased  to  mention  that 
Malaysia has been contributing actively to the work of 
the CLCS through our current expert, Mazlan Madon, 
and former expert, Abu Bakar Jaafar, respectively.
I  assure  the  Assembly  of  my  delegation’s  firm 
support and cooperation in relation to the deliberations 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  in  various  forums. 
Malaysia is convinced that with the recent developments 
and  ongoing  implementation  of  the  principles  and 
spirit of UNCLOS, the Convention will continue to be 
universally recognized and fully applied to the conduct 
of States on oceans.
(Nicaragua) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Argüello-Gómez 
in 
Spanish):  The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of the Sea has been described as the constitution of the 
oceans and ref lects a delicate balance of interests that 
encompass a variety of issues, such as the definition of 
maritime zones, protection of the environment and the 
use of marine resources, among others. The Convention 
has  had  an  impact  in  many  spheres,  particularly  in 
maintaining global peace and security, insofar as it has 
provided legal security in the various domains it covers. 
It  has  set  out  mechanisms  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes and created institutions to implement them. 
Similarly,  it  has  set  standards  for  the  sustainable  use 
of marine resources and strengthened the development 
of  international  commerce,  for  which  the  oceans  are 
A/67/PV.51
a  channel  carrying  90  per  cent  of  the  world’s  traded 
goods. 
Furthermore, it took a historic step in promulgating, 
as part of the law of the sea, the principle that the area 
of the seabed, ocean f loor and subsoil beyond the limits 
of national jurisdiction — and the resources to be found 
there — are the common heritage of mankind, and that 
their exploration and exploitation should therefore be to 
the benefit of all mankind.
To  date,  164  States  have  ratified  the  Convention, 
and  the  few  that  have  not  yet  done  so  are  in  active 
negotiations,  recognizing  that  the  content  of  the 
instrument  represents  the  current  law  of  the  sea  and 
that many of its rules are part of customary law. Of the 
164 States, 29 are in Latin America and the Caribbean, 
with Ecuador the most recent country to ratify. Those 
numbers  serve  as  an  indication  of  the  acceptance  and 
importance of the Convention in our region, where only 
four countries have not yet joined.
In the case of Nicaragua, being a coastal State with 
extensive coastlines on both the Pacific and the Atlantic 
Oceans and with many islands and keys in our territory, 
the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  has  been  the 
basis  on  which  Nicaragua  has  asserted  the  rights  that 
the Convention recognizes as such. Nicaragua therefore 
requested the International Court of Justice to rule on 
the delimitation of its maritime borders so as to resolve 
disputes with the Republics of Honduras and Colombia. 
In the latter case, the Court judgement, rendered on 
19 November, represents a milestone for our nation, in 
that the Court recognized Nicaragua’s maritime rights 
in  areas  of  the  Caribbean  in  a  way  concordant  with 
history, geography and international law. Most notably, 
the ruling confirmed the 200 nautical miles delimitation 
of the exclusive economic zone and acknowledged that 
Nicaragua  has  a  continental  shelf  in  the  Caribbean, 
entitling it to recover its sovereign rights over the vast 
natural resources they contain. That will have positive 
effects  on 
the  country’s  economic  development, 
facilitate closer relations with neighbouring, especially 
Caribbean,  countries  and  enable  negotiation  of 
outstanding  maritime  boundaries  in  an  atmosphere  of 
legal certainty.
Nicaragua  wishes  therefore  to  draw  attention 
to  the  important  contribution  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  to  maritime  delimitations  between 
States.  In  fact,  the  Convention’s  fundamental  rule  for 
maritime  delimitation  of  exclusive  economic  zones 
12-64245
3
A/67/PV.51
and  the  continental  shelf  —  which  is  that  it  must  be 
equitable  —  derives  from  the  principles  and  legal 
standards identified by the Court in the cases concerning 
the North Sea continental shelf in 1969. Including those 
landmark  cases,  145  cases  have  been  presented  to  the 
Court on the same subject. That has enabled the Court 
to  develop  and  interpret  the  rules  established  by  the 
Convention — which merely provide a basic framework 
for managing relations between States on those issues, 
a  fact  that  prevents  the  Convention  from  becoming 
a  static  instrument.  Conversely,  the  Court  has  also 
managed  to  adapt  the  rules  to  different  circumstances 
with the sole purpose of obtaining a fair result based on 
international law.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  our 
appreciation for the work of the International Tribunal 
for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  recently  issued  its  first 
ruling on maritime delimitation, and also for that of the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. The 
work  of  the  Commission  is  particularly  important  for 
small  and  developing  countries  like  Nicaragua,  which 
has  already  submitted  preliminary  information  and 
will soon submit its formal application for recognition 
of  its  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles  in 
the Caribbean Sea. It is therefore essential to grant the 
funding  and  f lexibility  needed  for  the  Commission  to 
deal  with  its  backlog  of  work  and  meet  the  objectives 
for which it was created.
The  assurance  of  obtaining  an  equitable  result  is 
the  reason  that  Nicaragua  turned  to  the  Court  in  the 
two  cases  I  mentioned.  Specifically  in  the  Colombia 
case,  the  jurisprudence  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  the  principles  of  the  arbitral  tribunals  on 
delimitation  informed  the  weighing  of  the  claims  of  a 
large State with small islands against those of a smaller 
State’s  extensive  coasts.  That  is  the  case  of  the  San 
Andres  islands,  by  virtue  of  which  Colombia  claimed 
a  42-square-kilometre  extension,  and  the  coasts  of 
Nicaragua,  which  are  more  than  500  kilometres  in 
length.  Clearly,  any  equitable  delimitation  must  grant 
Nicaragua  a  substantial  part  of  the  maritime  areas  in 
question. In that case, the Court ruled in a manner that 
anyone who has ever studied related cases would easily 
have  predicted.  That  is  why  Nicaragua  finds  nothing 
surprising in the judgement of 19 November, but rather 
a confirmation of how the Court has been interpreting 
the rules of international law for decades.
Nicaragua  has  always  been  a  country  with  a 
commitment to peace and respect for international law, 
and  it  has  always  faithfully  fulfilled  its  international 
obligations,  including  abiding  by  the  decisions  of  the 
Court.  We  expect  reciprocity  from  other  States  when 
it  comes  to  their  obligation  to  abide  by  the  decisions 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  cases  they  are 
involved in.
A recent significant development in our region that 
demonstrates  our  commitment  to  peace  is  the  case  of 
the  Gulf  of  Fonseca,  which  has  been  declared  by  the 
Presidents of the three coastal countries of Nicaragua, 
Honduras and El Salvador as a zone of peace, sustainable 
development  and  security.  Recently  we  convened  a 
trilateral  commission  to  ensure  the  implementation  of 
that declaration.
Mr.  Momen  (Bangladesh):  It  is  an  honour  for  me 
to address the plenary meeting on the commemoration 
of the thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature 
of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  We  express  our  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Tommy  Koh,  who  was  the  President  of 
the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the 
Sea, the Secretary-General of the International Seabed 
Authority,  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the  Chairman  of  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the  other 
speakers for their remarks on the topic.
The adoption of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea on 30 April 1982 was a milestone in 
the governance of global maritime affairs. My delegation 
recalls  with  gratitude  the  special  role  played  by  the 
late  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta,  in  particular, 
his  visionary  speech  delivered  on  1  November  1967 
before  the  First  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly 
(see  A/C.1/PV.1515),  which  facilitated  the  adoption  of 
the Convention in 1982. Let me also recall with gratitude 
the  contribution  of  other  eminent  persons  who  served 
as  officers  of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  as  well  as  those  who  worked 
tirelessly  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  Convention 
and  its  adoption.  Here,  I  express  my  sincere  tribute 
to  Ambassador  Hamilton  Shirley  Amerasinghe  of  Sri 
Lanka  and  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore  for 
their contributions.
Bangladesh signed the Convention on 10 December 
1982,  the  very  first  day  of  its  opening  for  signature, 
and ratified it on 27 July 2001. We also acceded to the 
Agreement on Part XI of the Convention on 27 July 2001. 
Bangladesh was pleased to co-sponsor resolution 67/5, 
4 
12-64245
entitled “Plenary meetings of the General Assembly on 
10 and 11 December 2012 devoted to the consideration 
of the item entitled ‘Oceans and the law of the sea’ and 
to the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea”, under agenda item 75.
Thirty years ago, on 10 December 1982, the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea was opened 
for  signature  in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica.  Bangladesh 
greatly values the significance of that day. It was in that 
spirit  that  the  Government  of  Bangladesh  organized 
a  high-level  national  event  on  10  December,  entitled 
“Commemoration  Ceremony  of  the  30th  Anniversary 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
of 1982”. The Prime Minister of Bangladesh graced the 
occasion as the chief guest, while the Foreign Minister 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
Resident  Coordinator 
in  Bangladesh  attended  as 
special  guests.  The  meeting  was  organized  by  the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in association with relevant 
stakeholders in both the public and the private sectors.
Maritime territory has become an important area of 
economic interest for all nations and even more so for 
a  country  like  Bangladesh  with  limited  resources  and 
extensive  development  challenges.  The  ocean  remains 
an  important  element  in  our  culture,  particularly  in 
relation  to  the  fishery  resources  of  the  sea.  Into  the 
future  and  in  order  to  promote  the  welfare  of  our 
population, Bangladesh looks toward the sea, both for 
the resources of the water column and the seabed.
Bangladesh  greatly  values  multilateralism 
in 
including  ocean-governance.  As  a 
all  activities, 
densely  populated  country  with  an  area  of  144,000 
square  kilometres  and  a  population  of  150  million, 
Bangladesh deems the settlement of maritime disputes 
with  its  neighbours  is  immensely  important  so  that  it 
can  rightfully  claim  maritime  resources  in  the  Bay  of 
Bengal. As members are aware, on 14 March 2012, the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), an 
important body established under UNCLOS, delivered 
its  historic  judgement  in  the  delimitation  proceedings 
between  Bangladesh  and  Myanmar,  instituted  under 
Part XV of UNCLOS, within 28 months from the time 
it  initiated  those  proceedings  on  14  December  2009. 
That is a manifestation of unprecedented efficiency on 
the part of ITLOS. We reiterate our sincere appreciation 
to  ITLOS  for  that.  We  also  express  our  appreciation 
to  the  Tribunal  for  dealing  with  the  proceedings  in  a 
transparent, just and equitable manner. Our felicitations 
A/67/PV.51
go  the  delegation  of  Myanmar,  too,  for  positively 
receiving  the  invitation  of  Bangladesh  and  thereby 
helping  to  resolve  a  contentious  issue  in  a  peaceful 
manner.  I  believe  that,  by  resolving  that  dispute,  both 
Bangladesh  and  Myanmar  have  not  only  opened  up 
opportunities for their peoples, but also contributed to 
the progressive development of international law of the 
sea and the institutions established under UNCLOS.
Now,  I  should  like  to  refer  to  Bangladesh’s 
submission  regarding  the  extended  continental  shelf 
on  25  February  2011  —  five  months  earlier  than  the 
deadline —  to  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  the 
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  another  important 
body established under the Convention. The submission 
completes  the  outstanding  obligation  of  Bangladesh 
under  the  provisions  of  article  76  of  the  Convention 
to  provide  scientific  and  technical  information  to 
the  Commission  in  support  of  Bangladesh’s  claim  to 
jurisdiction  over  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200 
nautical  miles.  Through  the  international  process 
established under the Convention, we sought to delimit 
our  continental  shelf  in  order  to  provide  a  legal  basis 
for  the  exploration,  conservation  and  development 
of  living  and  non-living  natural  resources  that  could 
safeguard  our  sustainable  development,  energy  needs 
and the welfare of our people.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 
We  welcome  the  opportunity  to  speak  today  to 
commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. The United Republic of Tanzania was 
among the first 119 countries that signed the Convention 
in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica.  For  us,  the  Convention  was 
the  culmination  of  the  most  important  law-making 
negotiations  undertaken  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations.  Those  rigorous  and  complex  negotiations 
resulted  in  what  we  have  today  —  a  regime  of  ocean 
governance  that  takes  into  account  a  broad  range  of 
interests  and  circumstances  that  was  and  continues  to 
be worthy of our collective pride and support.
As  we  meet  here  today  it  is  important  to  reaffirm 
the spirit of the Convention as ref lected in its preamble, 
namely, to promote the spirit of mutual understanding 
and cooperation on all issues relating to the law of the 
sea.  We  must  recommit  ourselves  to  that  vision,  to 
the  full  implementation  of  the  goals  and  objectives  of 
the  Convention  as  a  contribution  to  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  and  to  further 
12-64245
5
A/67/PV.51
strengthening  and  promoting  legitimate  uses  of  the 
oceans.
Tanzania  attaches  great  importance  to  the  role 
played  by  the  Convention,  which  we  ratified  on 
30 September 1985 as the twenty-fourth State party. We 
believe in the Convention’s continued relevance and are 
pleased to note that much has been achieved within its 
framework.  We  recognize  that  the  past  30  years  have 
not been without challenges, but such challenges require 
our sustained effort and dedication to the agenda of the 
Convention and its goals. 
In that regard, the need for States to support, respect 
and protect the interests of landlocked or geographically 
disadvantaged  developing  coastal  and  small  island 
States  deserves  our  support  and  special  attention. 
Furthermore, efforts should focus on the equitable and 
efficient utilization of ocean resources, curbing marine 
pollution  and  countering  the  new  forms  of  piracy  not 
originally envisaged under the Convention. It is our hope 
that emerging challenges will be effectively addressed 
within the Convention’s framework. We also hope that 
States  and  other  stakeholders  will  continue  to  play  an 
active role in the implementation of the Convention and 
to make efforts to enhance global interaction through a 
spirit of cooperation and understanding.
We also wish to underscore the need to strengthen 
capacity-building for developing countries with respect 
to  maritime  activities  so  as  to  empower  them  to 
implement the Convention and fully secure the benefits 
of  oceans  and  seas,  including  those  beyond  their 
national  jurisdiction,  which  are  deemed  the  common 
heritage of mankind.
Thirty years of the Convention marks an important 
milestone.  We  applaud  the  Convention’s  achievements 
in  providing  the  rule  of  law  to  oceans  and  seas.  The 
goal  of  the  Convention  is  universal  participation.  We 
encourage  more  States  to  consider  becoming  party  to 
the Convention.
To conclude, I wish to use this occasion to pay tribute 
to the late Ambassador Pardo of Malta for articulating 
the idea of a legal regime to govern the legitimate use 
of the oceans and to all the international diplomats and 
jurists whose outstanding contributions and hard work 
produced the legal instrument we celebrate today.  
Mr.  Escalona  Ojeda  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  would  like  to 
thank  all  the  countries  that  worked  intensively  on 
this  important  international  legal  instrument.  On  the 
occasion  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of 
the  Final  Act  of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  when  the  1982  Convention 
was  opened  for  signature,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela joins this celebration by recalling the spirit 
in  which  that  historic  Conference  was  convened.  Our 
country  participated  actively  and  enthusiastically, 
firmly  convinced  that  it  would  lead  to  a  legitimate 
constitution of the oceans.
That  optimism  was  frustrated  by  the  unjustifiable 
inf lexibility  that  prevailed  in  the  drafting  of  the  final 
instrument,  which,  while  aspiring  to  universality, 
ultimately  excluded  one  of 
its  most  enthusiastic 
promoters,  among  others.  Because  of  that  unexpected 
outcome,  Venezuela  had  no  choice  but  to  vote  against 
the adoption of the Convention, casting our vote on the 
basis  of  reasons  exhaustively  stated  in  March,  April 
and  December  1982  (see  A/CONF.62/SR.158,  SR.168 
and SR.192).
Once the Convention was opened for signature, an 
adjustment phase in the practice of the new regulatory 
structure  was  set  in  motion.  Venezuela  views  with 
concern  and  rejects  all  attempts  to  endow  certain 
provisions  of  the  Convention,  including  those  that 
present  difficulties  for  our  country,  with  the  status 
of  customary  international  law,  with  the  intention  of 
imposing them on non-party States. Such an imposition 
would be clearly unacceptable.
Venezuela has always affirmed that the provisions 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
whose  adoption  it  opposed,  do  not  apply  to  us,  except 
to the extent that they have been expressly accepted by 
our  country.  Venezuela  has  fulfilled  its  international 
obligations  with  respect  to  the  law  of  the  sea  and  has 
called for its comprehensive development with a vision 
of equality, insisting that all negotiations in that regard 
must  ref lect  criteria  and  principles  linked  to  the  right 
to  sustainable  development  and  to  the  preservation 
and sustainable use of the marine environment and its 
resources for future generations.
This  anniversary  offers  an  opportunity 
to 
emphasize that new situations have arisen that the Third 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  did 
not foresee and for which relevant provisions were not 
negotiated.  Unfortunately,  the  spirit  with  which  those 
situations,  and  others  related  to  the  implementation 
and  expansion  of  the  criteria,  rules  and  principles  of 
Convention,  have  been  addressed  has  not  been  broad 
6 
12-64245
enough  to  allow  equitable  and  inclusive  development 
of  the  principles  and  rules  that  should  apply  to  new 
situations.  In  that  context,  it  is  difficult  for  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to join the celebration 
of  what  it  has  considered,  and  continues  to  consider, 
the  unsatisfactory  outcome  of  the  Third  Conference. 
Today we reiterate that Venezuela is not a party to the 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  because  it  cannot 
contravene principles and rights that are essential to it 
and that remain valid and relevant.
At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  this  could  be  a 
propitious  occasion  to  invoke  the  spirit  in  which  the 
Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea 
was organized and initiated and to evaluate the issues 
on  which  there  is  no  consensus  or  regarding  which 
there are contradictory practices and to consider, with 
a  constructive  and  inclusive  approach,  the  possibility 
of  updating  the  terms  of  the  Convention,  in  particular 
revising  the  provisions  that  prevent  that  instrument 
from achieving truly universal participation.
Throughout the 10 years of the Third Conference, 
Venezuela  proved  its  genuine  desire  to  achieve  a 
universally acceptable convention on the law of the sea. 
In the same spirit, today we reiterate the conviction that 
a legal instrument that aspires to become a constitution 
for the oceans, for the benefit of all, must of necessity 
facilitate the participation of all.
Mr. Schuldt (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
first  like  to  express  Ecuador’s  great  pleasure  in  being 
able to participate in this commemoration of the thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 
in  our  capacity  as  a  State  party.  This  historic  legal 
instrument is unprecedented and is considered to be the 
constitution  of  the  ocean,  the  legal  framework  within 
which all activities in the seas and oceans must be take 
place.
In fact, on 22 May the National Assembly of Ecuador, 
by  a  large  majority  of  81  votes  in  favour  out  of  103 
delegates present, voted to approve Ecuador’s accession 
to  UNCLOS,  thanks  to  which,  on  24  September,  the 
Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
presented  to  the  United  Nations  its  instrument  of 
accession  to  the  Convention  and  its  declaration,  in 
compliance  with  article  310  of  the  Convention.  Our 
recent accession to UNCLOS is an historic event for my 
country,  the  result  of  a  10-year  internal  process  since 
the establishment of the national commission in 2002, 
an intense effort of inter-institutional coordination and 
A/67/PV.51
dialogue  with  the  nation’s  productive,  academic  and 
social sectors, as well as of information campaigns on 
the Convention and the advantages for Ecuador. It was 
my  honour  to  be  part  of  that  process,  which  makes  it 
even more relevant for me to be speaking here today.
There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that  Ecuador  was 
already part of the spirit of UNCLOS, including from its 
beginnings, not only because it was an active participant 
throughout  the  more  than  14-year  negotiation  process 
and  contributed  directly  to  one  of  its  fundamental 
concepts being enshrined — the sovereignty of coastal 
States  over  their  natural  resources,  as  is  the  case  of 
the  exclusive  economic  zone  —  but  also  because  we 
shared its highest goal, which is to contribute to a just 
and  equitable  international  economic  order  that  takes 
into account the interests and needs of all humankind, 
particularly 
interests  of  developing 
countries, whether coastal or landlocked.
the  special 
the 
efforts  of 
As  we 
commemorate 
the 
representatives of more than 150 countries to establish 
a  comprehensive  regime  for  matters  pertaining  to  the 
law of the sea, we cannot help recalling that throughout 
the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  Ecuador,  together  with  Chile,  Peru  and  other 
countries  —  first  from  Latin  America,  then  from 
other  regions  of  the  world  —  promoted  and  defended 
the  rights  of  sovereignty  and  jurisdiction  of  coastal 
States up to 200 nautical miles, in conformity with the 
Santiago  Declaration  on  the  Maritime  Zone,  of  1952, 
particularly  its  paragraph  II,  which  proclaimed  as  a 
norm  of  their  maritime  policy  that  they  each  possess 
exclusive sovereignty and jurisdiction over the sea along 
the  coasts  of  their  respective  countries  to  a  minimum 
distance  of  200  nautical  miles  from  those  coasts.  In 
that  regard  the  Declaration  was  inspired  by  the  1945 
Truman  Proclamation  and  other  national  declarations 
by  Mexico,  Argentina,  Chile,  Peru  and  Cuba,  among 
others.  The  1952  Santiago  Declaration,  signed  by 
Ecuador  and  its  associates  of  the  south-east  Pacific, 
was the first joint declaration of the 200-nautical-mile 
concept  and  the  basis  for  later  regional  meetings  and 
positions  in  Lima,  Montevideo  and  Santo  Domingo 
that  in  their  turn  became  an  example  for  the  position 
of various developing countries during the Conference.
Thus,  as  a  result  of  the  persistent  defence  by  the 
group  known  as  the  territorialists,  led  by  Ecuador,  of 
the concept of exclusive jurisdiction over 200 miles, the 
Third  Conference  recognized  the  right  of  sovereignty 
of  coastal  States  for  the  purposes  of  exploration, 
12-64245
7
A/67/PV.51
exploitation,  conservation  and  management  of  natural 
resources over a 200-mile width, which is known today 
as the exclusive economic zone. The incorporation of the 
exclusive  economic  zone  into  the  negotiating  process 
for UNCLOS is a fundamental contribution of Ecuador 
and the countries of the South Pacific, among others, to 
the development and codification of the law of the sea, 
which  now  recognizes  that  jurisdiction  universally.  In 
Ecuador’s case, that jurisdiction applies to the maritime 
area up to 200 miles from the coast of the continent and 
the 200 miles around the Galapagos archipelago.
Thirty  years  after  the  Convention  was  opened  for 
signature, it is a pleasure to note that, despite existing 
challenges,  it  has  managed  to  survive  the  test  of  time 
and  has  achieved  its  main  objectives,  providing  the 
international  community  with  a  unified  legal  system 
for  the  seas  and  oceans  that  facilitates  international 
communication  and  promotes 
the  peaceful  uses 
of  the  seas  and  oceans,  the  equitable  use  of  their 
resources,  the  study,  protection  and  preservation  of 
the  marine  environment  and  the  conservation  of  its 
living  resources.  The  Convention  has  also  served  to 
promote  international  peace  and  security  in  maritime 
concerns, having brought a greater legal certainty to a 
series of conf licts and delimitation claims by defining 
the limits of all maritime spaces — the territorial sea, 
the contiguous zone, the exclusive economic zone, the 
continental shelf, including its extension, the high seas 
and the seabed — as well as the rights and obligations 
of coastal States in those areas.
Furthermore,  UNCLOS  also  contributed  to  the 
the  adoption  of  a 
international  community  with 
regime  for  marine  scientific  research  on  the  basis  of 
clearly  established  principles  that  must  be  respected 
and  complemented  by  increased  technology  transfer 
to  developing  countries.  One  of  the  Convention’s 
most  important  and  unquestionably  most  innovative 
achievements,  however,  was  its  establishment  of  a 
legal  regime  for  the  exploration  for  and  exploitation 
of  minerals,  based  on  the  principles  embodied  in 
resolution  2749  (XXV),  through  which  the  General 
Assembly declared that the seabed and the resources of 
the Area are the common heritage of mankind, and that 
their  exploration  and  exploitation  shall  be  carried  out 
for the benefit of mankind as a whole.
There  is  the  persistent  challenge  of  defining  a 
specific regime for the conservation and sustainable use 
of  marine  biodiversity  in  the  Area,  but  the  principles 
established in UNCLOS for the Area, especially those 
regarding  the  common  heritage  of  mankind  and  the 
equitable  distribution  of  the  benefits  of  all  activities 
conducted in it, are fully applicable and should serve as 
a guide and legal framework for future negotiations on 
an implementation agreement for the conservation and 
sustainable  use  of  the  Area’s  resources. We  hope  that, 
in  keeping  with  the  high-level  commitment  expressed 
at the recent United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development,  the  work  of  the  Assembly’s  working 
group  on  the  future  development  of  an  international 
legal  instrument  in  the  framework  of  the  Convention 
will be carried out in the same spirit of cooperation and 
search  for  consensus  that  the  Third  Conference  had, 
in  order  to  do  justice  to  its  model  of  wholeness  and 
comprehensiveness in negotiations.
Ecuador  is  a  maritime  country  par  excellence.  It 
sees  its  recent  accession  to  UNCLOS  as  a  path  more 
than  a  destination,  a  path  along  which  we  expect  to 
participate actively in meetings of States parties and in 
the excellent work done by the three instruments created 
by the Convention. At the same time we will continue 
to  contribute  actively  to  the  various  working  groups 
and  processes  being  conducted  here  at  Headquarters, 
including the negotiations on the two draft resolutions 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on  sustainable 
fisheries,  and,  in  particular,  the  normal  process  of 
presenting  reports  and  assessments  of  the  state  of  the 
maritime  environment,  including  its  socioeconomic 
aspects,  and  the  just-mentioned  working  group,  on 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction.
Ecuador  also  intends  to  strengthen  its  activities 
in  protecting  and  preserving  its  marine  areas,  under 
the  provisions  of  the  Convention,  in  particular  in  the 
Galapagos  Marine  Reserve,  which  UNESCO  has 
declared  a  natural  heritage  of  humankind,  and  the 
Particularly  Sensitive  Sea  Area,  designated  by  the 
International Maritime Organization.
Lastly, in addition to other outstanding challenges, 
my country also hopes to complete the studies started 
several  years  ago  to  justify  the  extension  of  the 
Galapagos  continental  shelf  up  to  350  miles,  in  line 
with  the  Convention  and  the  support  that  we  hope  to 
receive  from  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf.
UNCLOS was adopted as a package deal. It denotes 
several landmarks in being the first convention to have 
such  a  large  number  of  ratifications  and  accessions 
immediately following its opening for signature, the first 
8 
12-64245
in  which  non-governmental  organizations  participated 
and  the  first  to  address  and  resolve  matters  related  to 
all ocean activities. That led the Secretary-General, at 
the time of its adoption, to declare it probably the most 
significant legal instrument of the century.
Finally,  allow  me  to  join  others  in  paying  tribute 
to  all  the  negotiators  and  representatives  from  the 
entire  world  and  from  Latin  America,  most  especially 
Ambassador  Luis  Valencia  Rodríguez,  head  of  the 
Ecuadorian  delegation  to  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  They  made  it 
possible for the international community today to have 
such a significant legal instrument for developing and 
ensuring full compliance with the law of the sea.
Mrs. Mørch Smith (Norway): The United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  sets  out  the  legal 
order for the world’s seas and oceans, providing a solid 
foundation for the peaceful, responsible and predictable 
management  of  the  oceans.  Within  a  relatively  short 
period  of  time,  the  Convention  established  itself  as 
the  constitution  of  the  oceans.  It  outlines  lasting  and 
fundamental rules for ever-changing ocean conditions, 
as  recently  exemplified  by  the  climate  change  and  ice 
melt in the Arctic Ocean. In that regard, the Convention 
provides clarity with regard to the obligations and rights 
related  to,  for  example,  the  delineation  of  the  outer 
limits  of  the  continental  shelf,  the  protection  of  the 
marine environment and marine scientific research. At 
this commemorative event for the thirtieth anniversary 
of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  Convention,  it  is 
appropriate to ref lect on its achievements.
Significant  compromises  were  reached  in  the 
negotiations on the Convention in order to create a fair 
package  that  would  make  an  important  contribution 
to  international  law.  One  important  issue  during  the 
negotiations  was  the  opportunity  for  coastal  States 
to  exercise  their  sovereign  rights  with  regard  to  the 
exploitation of natural resources in a much broader area 
than  the  territorial  waters  recognized  by  international 
law at the time. A successful compromise was reached 
with 
the  Castañeda-Vindenes 
formula.  Exclusive  rights  were  established  for  coastal 
States  in  a  broad  contiguous  zone,  while  the  essential 
freedom  of  the  high  seas  was  preserved  under  the 
regime  known  today  as  the  exclusive  economic  zone. 
Economic  zones  extending  up  to  200  nautical  miles 
from  the  baseline  were  established  by  most  coastal 
States.
introduction  of 
the 
A/67/PV.51
The  development  of  the  new  law  of  the  sea 
culminated  in  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  in  1982 
and  its  subsequent  entry  into  force  in  1994.  Since  the 
Convention’s entry into force, we have seen important 
developments  in  the  interpretation  of  the  provisions 
on  maritime  delimitation.  Norway  welcomes 
the 
contribution of the International Court of Justice and its 
crucial role in consolidating and refining the principles 
of  maritime  delimitation.  In  that  way,  the  Court  has 
provided 
invaluable  guidance  for  States  engaged 
in  the  negotiation  of  treaties  on  the  delimitation  of 
the  continental  shelf  and  economic  zones.  Norway 
has  contributed  to  the  consolidation  of  the  law,  for 
example, in the 1993 Greenland-Jan Mayen case and in 
negotiations on maritime delimitation agreements with 
all its neighbours.
The  establishment  and  determination  of  the  outer 
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical 
miles  is  a  central  element  in  the  implementation  of 
the Convention. That definition is necessary to clarify 
the  legal  framework  for  future  shelf  activities  and  for 
environmental protection. A clear legal framework also 
has significant development implications.
in-depth  and 
The  establishment  of  the  outer  limits  of  the 
continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles, 
in 
accordance  with  the  rules  of  the  Convention,  requires 
an 
interdisciplinary  knowledge  of 
geology,  geophysics  and  hydrography.  Preparing  the 
data and materials to be used in the submissions to the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  is 
a  complex  operation.  Many  developing  countries  face 
challenges  in  preparing  the  necessary  documentation. 
The General Assembly has repeatedly called upon States 
with  the  necessary  financial  and  technical  resources 
and relevant capacity and expertise to assist developing 
countries in the preparation of their submissions. 
Norway would like to encourage all States with the 
necessary  resources  to  assist  developing  countries  in 
the  preparation  of  documentation  to  the  Commission. 
Norway  provides  considerable  technical  assistance  to 
developing countries in that regard. The aim is to enable 
our  partner  countries  to  exercise  their  rights  to  the 
natural resources on their continental shelf and thus to 
provide them with an important basis for economic and 
social  development.  Since  2008,  we  have  cooperated 
with  Benin,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Somalia,  Togo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya and Mozambique on this issue.
At  present,  our  support  is  focused  on  subregional 
cooperation with Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-
12-64245
9
A/67/PV.51
Bissau,  Mauritania,  Senegal  and  Sierra  Leone.  That 
support  includes  a  desktop  study  of  their  continental 
shelf,  training,  capacity-building,  the  financing  and 
management  of  the  acquisition  of  additional  seismic 
and  bathymetric  data,  data  analysis,  the  drafting 
of  submissions  and,  where  applicable,  assistance 
with  determining  baselines  and  the  establishment  of 
exclusive economic zones. Our cooperation is based on 
African ownership, African cooperation and Norwegian 
support.  We  have  recently  also  initiated  cooperation 
with Liberia. 
through  national 
One  of  today’s  main  challenges  relates  to  the 
implementation of and compliance with the Convention. 
All  States  must  ensure  effective  compliance  with 
the  Convention 
legislation  and 
enforcement.  In  that  context,  the  sustainable  use  and 
conservation  of  marine  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond 
national  jurisdiction  is  one  important  issue  under 
discussion  at  present.  We  remain  committed  to  the 
process  within  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal 
Working Group to study such issues.
Mr.  Clarke  (United  Kingdom):  I  would  like  to 
join  those  who  have  already  spoken  in  celebrating 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea.  We  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude  to  those  who  worked 
determinedly  during  the  decade  of  negotiations  under 
the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  Law  of  the 
Sea  for  producing  such  an  outstanding  document —  a 
constitution for the oceans, as others have described it. 
But we must not forget those who worked hard and with 
considerable imagination to produce the Implementing 
Agreement on Part XI, which was adopted in 1994 and 
which enabled the Convention to enter into force with 
the participation of all regional groups.
The  Convention  is  undoubtedly  a  comprehensive 
and  visionary  document,  for,  despite  the  pace  of 
globalization  and  the  development  of  technology  in 
the  intervening  years  —  which  could  not  have  been 
envisaged by the drafters — we find that the Convention 
has stood the test of time for 30 years. We are sure that it 
will continue to do so for the next 30 years and beyond.
The  Convention  is  also  remarkable  for  having 
achieved such a broad family of acceptance, which has 
continued  to  grow  even  in  2012.  That  is  a  testament 
to the fine balance that the drafters found between the 
interests  of  coastal  States  and  the  interests  of  those 
using  the  oceans,  between  rights  and  responsibilities, 
and  between  the  sustainable  utilization  of  the  ocean’s 
resources and their protection.
We  value,  in  particular,  the  Convention’s  regime 
for  the  various  maritime  zones.  It  offers  clarity  where 
previously there had been uncertainty and a multitude 
of different national claims. As a result, the Convention 
enshrines clearly the relevant rules on navigation — an 
essential element in promoting world trade.
We  welcome  the  provisions  on  the  protection  of 
the  marine  environment,  be  it  from  pollution  or  from 
overexploitation, on the promotion of marine scientific 
research  and,  above  all,  on  the  need  for  States  to 
cooperate  at  the  regional  and  global  levels  to  ensure 
that  we  can  all  enjoy  the  benefits  of  the  oceans  in  the 
future. The nature of the oceans is such that actions by 
one party in one part of the world’s oceans can have a 
debilitating  impact  on  other  parties’  utilization  of  the 
oceans’ resources elsewhere in the world, and we need 
to respect that.
The  regime  for  deep  seabed  mining  might 
have  been  controversial  at  the  time,  but  the  1994 
Agreement  relating  to  the  implementation  of  Part  XI 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  of  10  December  1982  has  proved  to  be  crucial  in 
ensuring its general acceptability. That Agreement was 
also  prescient,  as  we  see  an  increasing  interest  in  the 
economic possibilities that mining offers. It will be for 
the International Seabed Authority and Member States 
to cooperate in order to ensure that the same balance of 
interests  preserved  in  the  Convention —  that  between 
the  desire  for  development  and  the  optimal  use  of 
resources with the need to protect the environment — is 
followed as regimes for exploitation are developed.
We note the importance in the implementation of the 
Convention of all three of the institutions provided for 
by the Convention: the International Seabed Authority, 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, 
which is ref lected in the growing workload they are all 
experiencing.
In  conclusion,  we  see  the  Convention  as  one  of 
the  most  important  cornerstones  of  international  law, 
providing an indispensable foundation for dealing with 
issues relating to the oceans. And in recognition of the 
importance that the United Kingdom attaches to it, we 
were pleased to be able to make a further contribution 
of  $20,000,  earlier  this  year,  to  the  Hamilton  Shirley 
Amerasinghe  Memorial  Fellowship  on  the  Law  of  the 
10 
12-64245
A/67/PV.51
Sea, whose purpose is to assist candidates in acquiring 
additional  knowledge  of  the  Convention  in  order  to 
promote  its  wider  appreciation  and  application  and  to 
enhance specialized experience in those fields.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  In 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution  54/195, 
of  17  December  1999,  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the 
observer  of  the  International  Union  for  Conservation 
of Nature.
Mr.  Cohen  (International  Union  for  Conservation 
of Nature): The International Union for Conservation of 
Nature (IUCN) welcomes this opportunity to join with 
others  in  celebrating  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  Today,  there  are  164  States 
parties to the Convention, which recognizes the rights, 
responsibilities and obligations of States.
The International Union for Conservation of Nature, 
the  world’s  oldest  and  largest  global  environmental 
organization, includes more than 1,200 members from 
Governments and non-governmental organizations and 
almost 11,000 volunteer experts in 160 countries. Thus, 
our  membership  includes  many  Governments  whose 
States are also parties to the Convention. IUCN’s work 
focuses  on  valuing  and  conserving  nature,  ensuring 
effective  and  equitable  governance  of  its  use,  and 
deploying  nature-based  solutions  to  global  challenges 
in climate, food security and development. IUCN helps 
the world find pragmatic solutions to our most pressing 
environment and development challenges.
At  recent  World  Conservation  Congresses  in  Jeju, 
Republic  of  Korea,  and  in  Barcelona,  our  members 
adopted  resolutions  acknowledging  that  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  provides 
the overarching legal framework for the governance of 
human activities in areas beyond national jurisdiction, 
including  the  conservation  and  management  of  living 
resources  and  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
marine environment.
The  United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
has  noted  that  the  amount  of  marine  litter,  including 
plastics, has continued to increase in the oceans and on 
shorelines.  According  to  the  Scientific  and  Technical 
Advisory  Panel  of  the  Global  Environment  Facility, 
the  incidence,  intensity,  size  and  duration  of  coastal 
hypoxic  areas  are  increasing.  Coastal  hypoxia,  that 
is,  dead  zones,  reduces  fisheries  production,  kills 
and  impairs  fish  and  other  marine  life  populations, 
changing  their  diversity  and  health,  threatens  human 
health and reduces coastal amenities. The State of World 
Fisheries  and  Aquaculture  2012  report  of  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
notes that the world’s marine fisheries peaked in 1996. 
The  percentage  of  the  world’s  fishery  stocks  that  are 
overexploited  has  increased  from  10  per  cent  in  1974, 
when first assessed, to 30 per cent now. As others have 
already noted, warming oceans and the acidification of 
raw ocean waters threaten the diversity of marine living 
resources. Coral reefs are in decline. Thus, urgent and 
immediate action is necessary to conserve, protect and 
ensure the sustainable and equitable use of the world’s 
oceans.
Part XII of the Convention on the Law of the Sea of 
1982 deals with the protection and preservation of the 
marine environment and provides, inter alia, that States 
have  an  obligation  to  assess  the  potential  effects  of 
planned activities that may cause substantial pollution 
of  or  significant  and  harmful  changes  to  the  marine 
environment. That language is strengthened in the 1992 
Rio  Declaration  on  Environment  and  Development, 
which states that environmental impact assessments are 
to be undertaken for proposed activities that are likely 
to have a significant adverse impact on the environment. 
Such  reports  shall,  furthermore,  be  published,  that  is, 
made  publicly  available.  We  cannot  think  of  any  such 
reports that have been published recently. In our view, 
strategic  environmental  assessments  should  also  be 
undertaken.
World  leaders  adopted  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation  in  2002,  which  called,  inter  alia,    for 
the establishment of marine-protected areas, including 
representative  networks,  by  2012.  Through  the  1992 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  Governments 
adopted  Aichi  Biodiversity  Targets,  including  Target 
11, for the conservation of at least 10 per cent of their 
coastal and marine areas, especially areas of particular 
importance  for  biodiversity  and  ecosystem  services, 
through  effective  and  equitable  management  by  2020. 
It is estimated that just over 2 per cent of marine areas 
are now under protection. We must act quickly to reach 
the 10 per cent target by 2020.
Through  resolution  66/231,  the  General  Assembly 
decided  to  devote  two  days  of  meetings  during  this 
session to the consideration of oceans and the law of the 
sea and the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary 
of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  Convention, 
including special recognition of the crucial role played 
12-64245
11
A/67/PV.51
by Ambassador Arvid Pardo of Malta and, in particular, 
his  visionary  speech  delivered  on  1  November  1967. 
As  did  the  representative  of  South  Africa  yesterday 
(see  A/67/PV.50),  I  will  quote  one  paragraph  of  that 
visionary speech:
“The dark oceans were the womb of life: from 
the protecting oceans life emerged. We still bear in 
our  bodies  —  in  our  blood,  in  the  salty  bitterness 
of  our  Tears  —  the  marks  of  this  remote  past. 
Retracing  the  past,  man,  the  present  dominator  of 
the  emerged  earth,  is  now  returning  to  the  ocean 
depths. His penetration of the deep could mark the 
beginning of the end for man, and indeed for life as 
we know it on this earth: it could also be a unique 
opportunity to lay solid foundations for a peaceful 
and increasingly prosperous future for all peoples”. 
(A/C.1/PV.1515, para. 7)
Let us choose a peaceful and prosperous future for 
all peoples. Let us choose to live in cooperation and in 
harmony with nature.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  35/2  of  13  October  1980, 
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  Observer  for  the  Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization.
Mr.  Lee 
(Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization):  The  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization  (AALCO)  appreciates  very  much  the 
President’s  leadership  in  organizing  this  event  to 
commemorate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  signing 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
This  celebration  is  particularly  meaningful,  because 
the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  represents  a 
major  success  story  in  multilateral  diplomacy,  treaty-
making  and  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in 
the oceans. 
The  1982  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
successfully addressed all aspects of the law of the sea, 
from  litigation  to  resource  utilization  and  scientific 
research,  from  the  water  column  to  the  seabed  and 
subsoil,  from  sovereignty  and  jurisdiction  to  the 
common  heritage  and  from  maritime  delimitation 
to  dispute  settlement.  The  Convention  is  not  just 
a  codification  of  traditional  legal  practices.  It  also 
embodies  new  developments  and  practices  with  the 
participation  of  the  developing  countries.  This  event 
in  the  Assembly  attests  to  the  enduring  performance 
of  that  consolidated  comprehensive  multilateral  legal 
instrument. 
The  Convention  addresses  not  only  the  interests 
and concerns of the coastal States, but also those of the 
landlocked  and  geographically  disadvantaged  States. 
Because  all  States,  large  and  small,  contributed  to 
its  making,  the  Convention  enjoys  de  facto  universal 
participation  and  observance.  The  Convention    may, 
therefore, be seen as the constitution of the oceans and 
the seas. 
From the very beginning, AALCO has championed 
and  worked  closely  with  African,  Asian  and  Latin 
American  countries  to  promote  such  concepts  as  the 
exclusive  economic  zone,  the  outer  continental  shelf 
and the archipelagic baselines. Those concepts, together 
with  other  principles,  have  found  their  way  into  some 
of  the  core  provisions  of  the  Convention.  States  today 
are  applying  and  observing  those  provisions  in  their 
conduct and activities.
Many  previous  speakers  have  rightly  praised  the 
individuals  and  institutions  that  contributed  to  the 
making of the successful instrument we are celebrating 
today. AALCO would like to associate itself with those 
tributes  and  acknowledgements.  The  Convention  also 
exemplifies  the  United  Nations  ability  to  recognize 
shortcomings and to make use of lessons learned. The 
first United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea 
in 1958 produced four separate treaties, each codifying 
traditional practices under the headings of the territorial 
sea,  the  continental  shelf,  fisheries  and  the  high  seas. 
All  of  the  subjects  were  treated  as  legal  matters, 
and  the  International  Law  Commission,  which  is  a 
technical expert body, was entrusted with preparing the 
drafts.  Later,  in  1973,  when  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  was  convened,  the 
General Assembly found the 1958 approach inadequate 
for  meeting  the  real  needs.  The  Assembly  decided  at 
that time not to entrust the task to any technical body. 
States  themselves  undertook  to  negotiate  and  prepare 
the texts. 
The General Assembly laid down certain principles 
to guide the complex negotiations: first, economic and 
political  considerations  must  be  taken  into  account; 
secondly,  current  thinking  and  developments  in  the 
law  of  the  sea  must  also  be  ref lected  in  the  outcome; 
and  thirdly,  law  of  the  sea  matters  are  all  interrelated 
and  must  be  dealt  with  as  an  integral  whole.  Those 
objectives  led  to  the  construction  of  a  single  gigantic 
package — a comprehensive treaty covering all aspects 
of  the  law  of  the  sea  that  was  designed  to  encourage 
universal  participation  and  avoid  the  fragmentation 
12 
12-64245
that  happened  in  1959.  The  success  of  the  Convention 
attests to the enduring values of those principles today, 
30 years later, and for years to come.
We  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  two  areas  that 
we  believe  States  parties  may  further  benefit  from. 
They  are  the  mapping  of  maritime  baselines  and  the 
use  of  advisory  proceedings  for  handling  bilateral 
disputes  or  for  handling  issues  of  illegal,  unreported 
and  unregulated  (IUU)  fishing.  First,  with  regard 
to  the  question  of  mapping  baselines,  the  first  step 
in  any  development  of  fisheries  or  offshore  mineral 
resources  is  to  determine  the  baselines  from  which 
resource  jurisdictions  are  to  be  measured.  Whether 
it  is  internal  waters,  territorial  sea,  contiguous  zone, 
exclusive  economic  zone  or  continental  shelf,  all  are 
measured  from  the  line  where  the  sea  meets  the  land, 
which is the baseline. The establishment of baselines is, 
therefore, a prerequisite for determining the parameters 
of maritime zones and jurisdictions over the resources. 
The  determination  of  the  baselines  and  the  maritime 
zones  then  provides  the  basis  for  the  exercise  of 
sovereignty, jurisdiction and management. 
Given  the  importance  of  baselines,  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  requires 
States  parties  to  draw  baselines  and  to  make  public 
charts  showing  their  baselines  or  lists  of  the  relevant 
geographical  coordinates,  and  to  deposit  such  charts 
and lists with the Secretary-General. Today, only 54 of 
the  164  parties  have  fully  or  partially  complied  with 
those obligations. The General Assembly has repeatedly 
reminded and encouraged parties to deposit such charts 
or coordinates with the Secretary-General. Many States 
have not done so, in spite of the Assembly’s appeals. 
We  understand  that  States  may  have  reasons  or 
difficulties leading them not to publish or register their 
charts  or  coordinates.  Some,  apparently,  have  done 
the work but have not registered it with the Secretary-
General.  Some  States  prefer  to  focus  on  the  outer 
limits of their continental shelf. Many States may need 
technical  assistance  in  preparing  the  charts  or  lists. 
Still others may have pending disputes or delimitation 
issues  with  their  neighbours,  and  perhaps  they  do  not 
want to aggravate those disputes.
Depositing  and  publicizing  baselines  may  also 
serve  another  important  function  in  the  context  of 
climate change. Baselines provide critical evidence for 
the  shrinking  of  a  State’s  land  territory  as  the  result 
of rising sea levels or f looding in the delta areas. That 
shrinking  will  not  only  reduce  land  area  and  affect 
A/67/PV.51
resources extraction and other productive activities, but 
will  also  lead  to  the  displacement  of  populations  and 
the disruption of the competition among economies for 
resources in those zones, which, together with shifting 
and uncertain boundaries, could lead to more disputes. 
The  General  Assembly  has  recognized  the  effects 
of  climate  change  on  food  and  water,  economic 
development, migration and displacement, and the loss 
of  territory  and  the  potential  resulting  statelessness. 
It  would  be  difficult  for  a  coastal  State  to  assess, 
determine and manage the impact of sea-level rise, if the 
necessary steps to determine its baselines have not been 
taken.  We  believe  that  research  is  needed  to  identify 
the best ways to help States to map their baselines for 
their  own  benefit,  while  taking  into  account  all  legal, 
political  and  practical  implications.  We  are  pleased  to 
hear that Norway has already initiated programmes in 
that regard. 
Turning now to the use of advisory proceedings for 
the  purpose  of  dispute  management  and  conciliation, 
we  believe  that  such  proceedings  should  be  better 
promoted.  The  dispute  settlement  mechanisms  set  up 
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  are  working  well,  and  the  International  Tribunal 
for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  plays  an  essential  role  in  that 
regard. It is a special feature of the Tribunal that States 
parties  may  use  advisory  proceedings  for  handling 
disputes.  The  advisory  jurisdiction  for  dealing  with 
inter-State disputes has not been activated yet. When it 
is in operation, States will be able, instead of choosing 
contentious  proceedings,  to  draw  up  agreements  or 
similar  instruments  and  seek  advisory  opinions  for 
dealing  with  such  questions  as  baselines,  IUU  fishing 
issues or even boundary delimitation. 
Opinions  of  the  Tribunal  are  not  binding  per  se, 
but  they  are  authoritative  and  carry  weight.  Also,  the 
parties are free to adopt the opinion or use it as a basis or 
building block for conciliation or for finding solutions. 
Another  advantage  is  that  the  costs  of  advisory 
proceedings  are  borne  by  the  Tribunal.  It  seems  that 
the advisory mode may serve useful purposes in certain 
circumstances.  Greater  awareness  of  that  possibility 
would seem to be beneficial.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  commemoration  of  the 
thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
12-64245
13
A/67/PV.51
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 75.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea 
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea 
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/79, 
A/67/79/Corr.1, A/67/79/Add.1 and 
A/67/79/Add.2)
Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole (A/67/87)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.21)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/315)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.22)
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): Members 
will  recall  that,  under  agenda  item  75,  the  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  67/5  at  its  37th  plenary  meeting, 
on  14  November  2012,  and  that  the  Assembly  held  a 
commemoration  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea at its 49th, 50th and 51st plenary 
meetings on 10 and 11 December 2012.
The  recommendations  of  the  ad  hoc  open-ended 
informal working group to study issues relating to the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  and 
the  co-Chairs’  summary  of  the  discussions  have  been 
circulated  in  document  A/67/95.  The  report  on  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  at  its  thirteenth  meeting  has  been  circulated  in 
document A/67/120.
I now give the f loor to the representative of Trinidad 
and Tobago to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.21.
Mr.  Charles (Trinidad and Tobago): Trinidad and 
Tobago  was  deeply  honoured  to  have  coordinated  the 
informal  consultations  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.21 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  It  is  also  a  distinct 
to  have  been  afforded 
privilege 
the  opportunity 
during  the  year  in  which  the  international  community 
commemorates the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the l982 United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea in Montego Bay, Jamaica.
We  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  all  delegations 
for  their  support,  cooperation  and  f lexibility  as  they 
pursued and defended their national interests. Without 
such  an  approach,  coordination  of  the  draft  resolution 
would have been onerous. Let me also pay tribute to the 
Director and staff of the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the Law of the Sea for their excellent stewardship and 
advice  throughout  the  process.  Mr.  Tarasenko  and  his 
colleagues have personified the words professionalism 
and excellence, and we thank him. We also welcome the 
reports of the Secretary-General on oceans and the law 
of the sea, as they provide very relevant information on 
the issues covered in the draft resolution.
The  draft  resolution  before  us  today  contains 
elements  necessary  for  the  management,  preservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  the  resources  of  our  oceans 
and  seas  and  guidelines  for  the  conduct  of  States  in 
discharging  their  obligations  emanating  from  the 
international law of the sea, including the Convention.
Delegations  were  in  agreement  that  elements  of  the 
outcome  document,  entitled  “The  future  we  want” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  adopted  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which took place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 
22 June, should be ref lected in the draft text. References 
to  that  document  are  contained  throughout  the  draft 
resolution,  including  in  Part  X  of  the  text  relating  to 
the  marine  environment  and  marine  resources.  In  that 
section,  States  are  called  on  to  take  action  on  several 
issues,  especially  those  issues  that  relate  to  the  health 
of  our  oceans  and  marine  biodiversity,  which  are 
negatively  affected  by,  for  example,  marine  pollution, 
including marine debris.
The  draft  resolution,  which  is  perhaps  the  most 
comprehensive  draft  resolution  adopted  annually  by 
the  General  Assembly,  also  addresses  the  obligations 
of  States  that  f low  from  the  Convention,  other  global 
agreements and regional undertakings. They include the 
following:  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the 
work of treaty bodies established under the Convention, 
namely,  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea, the Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf  and  the  International  Seabed  Authority.  In 
addition, the draft resolution focuses on maritime safety 
14 
12-64245
and  security  and  f lag  State  implementation,  issues 
relating to marine science and regional cooperation and 
capacity-building.
In  determining  the  topic  for  discussion  at  the 
fourteenth meeting of the United Nations Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea, in 2013, delegations recognized, among other 
things,  the  role  of  the  Informal  Consultative  Process 
in  integrating  knowledge,  the  exchange  of  opinions 
among  multiple  stakeholders,  coordination  among 
competent  agencies  and  the  promotion  of  the  three 
pillars  of  sustainable  development.  It  was  therefore 
decided  that  the  fourteenth  meeting  of  the  Informal 
Consultative  Process  would  focus  on  the  impacts  of 
ocean  acidification  on  the  marine  environment.  It  is 
expected  that,  in  elaborating  on  the  topic,  emphasis 
would  also  be  placed  on  pursuing  research,  especially 
programmes  of  observation  and  measurement  of  the 
problem.
The  draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  also 
the  continued  call  by  Member  States 
highlights 
for  enhanced 
inter-agency  coordination  between 
mechanisms  on  oceans  and  coastal  issues  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  for  example,  the  inter-agency 
coordination  mechanism  on  oceans  and  coastal  issues 
(UN-Oceans).  Consequently,  the  General  Assembly 
is  being  asked  to  review  the  mandate  of  UN-Oceans 
during its sixty-eighth session, taking into account the 
need to strengthen the role of the Division for Oceans 
Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  among  other  things. 
Additionally,  mention  is  also  made  of  the  initiative 
of 
the  “Oceans 
Compact  —  Healthy  Oceans  for  Prosperity”.  In  that 
regard,  calls  are  being  made  for  open  and  regular 
consultations with Member States on all aspects of the 
Oceans Compact.
the  Secretary-General,  entitled 
Included  in  the  draft  resolution,  as  an  annex, 
are  the  terms  of  reference  for  the  intersessional 
workshops  aimed  at  improving  issues  relating  to  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  and  clarifying 
key  questions  as  an  input  to  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to  study  issues 
relating  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction.
Finally,  I  commit  draft  resolution  A/67/L.21  to 
the  Assembly  for  its  adoption.  By  adopting  the  draft 
A/67/PV.51
resolution,  Member  States  will  demonstrate  their 
renewed commitment to the efforts of the United Nations 
system aimed at providing assistance to Member States 
in discharging their obligations based on international 
treaties and other legal instruments geared towards the 
management,  protection,  preservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  the  resources  of  our  oceans  and  seas  for  the 
benefit  of  current  and  future  generations,  which  is  in 
keeping with “The future we want”.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of New Zealand to 
introduce draft resolution A/67/L.22.
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  My  delegation  is 
pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft  resolution  A/67/L.21, 
entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”,  which  has 
just  been  introduced  by  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  we 
particularly  compliment  Ambassador  Eden  Charles 
on  his  careful  stewardship  of  that  particular  draft 
resolution. New Zealand had the honour to coordinate 
the informal consultations on draft resolution A/67/L.22 
on  sustainable  fisheries,  and  I  am  now  pleased  to 
introduce that text, on behalf of all the sponsors.
This year’s draft resolution on sustainable fisheries 
once  again  addresses  critical  issues,  such  as  ensuring 
that  the  decisions  of  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations (RFMOs) are based on the best available 
scientific  information;  the  implementation  of  plans  of 
action for the conservation and management of sharks; 
and the impact of industrial fishing on species low down 
on  the  food  chain,  given  their  particularly  important 
role as food for other species in the marine ecosystem.
The  draft  resolution  also  recognizes,  for  the 
first  time,  the  need  to  collect  data  on  the  use  of  fish 
aggregating  devices  so  as  to  improve  monitoring  and 
mitigation measures for those devices. Although more 
work  is  needed  to  manage  shared  fish  stocks  with 
greater  certainty  for  their  long-term  sustainability, 
RFMOs remain the best mechanisms for cooperatively 
regulating 
fisheries.  A  number  of 
RFMOs  have  conducted  systematic  reviews  of  their 
performance and are now assessing and implementing 
the recommendations of those reviews. Those reforms 
include taking steps to improve States’ implementation 
of, enforcement of and compliance with the rules they 
adopt  as  members  of  such  organizations,  including 
meeting their responsibilities as f lag States.
international 
The  relevant  outcomes  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20) 
12-64245
15
A/67/PV.51
have  been  a  key  focus  for  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
on  sustainable  fisheries,  and  the  draft  resolution 
welcomes  those  Rio+20  outcomes.  Rio+20  addressed 
the sustainable development of fisheries. It recognized 
the  significant  contribution  of  fisheries  to  all  three 
dimensions of sustainable development and stressed the 
crucial role of healthy marine ecosystems, sustainable 
fisheries and sustainable aquaculture for food security 
and  nutrition,  and  in  providing  for  the  livelihoods  of 
millions of people.
The draft resolution ref lects the commitments made 
by  States  at  Rio+20  on  the  need  to  eliminate  illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  (IUU)  fishing  as  a  threat 
to  sustainable  development;  to  eliminate  subsidies 
that contribute to IUU fishing and to the overcapacity 
of  fishing  f leets;  and  to  enhance  actions  to  protect 
vulnerable marine ecosystems from significant adverse 
impacts, including through the effective use of impact 
assessments.
resolution  also 
for 
the  need 
ref lects  Rio+20’s 
The  draft 
recognition  of 
transparency  and 
accountability  in  fisheries  management  by  RFMOs. 
It  also  ref lects  the  call  for  the  adoption  by  2014  of 
strategies  to  assist  developing  countries,  particularly 
least  developed  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States,  in  developing  their  national  capacities  to 
conserve,  sustainably  manage  and  realize  the  benefits 
of sustainable fisheries.
New  Zealand  thanks  Director  Sergey  Tarasenko 
and the staff of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the 
Law of the Sea for their expertise and support on both 
draft resolutions. I reiterate my thanks to Ambassador 
Eden  Charles  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  for  his  expert 
coordination  of  the  draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the 
law  of  the  sea,  and  I  express  my  appreciation  for  the 
hard  work  and  cooperation  shown  by  delegations  in 
crafting  both  draft  resolutions.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
spirit of cooperation will be maintained as we continue 
to  address  the  numerous  and  complex  issues  that  face 
our oceans and fisheries.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to the observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Marhic  (European  Union):  I  am  speaking 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
Member  States.  The  acceding  country  Croatia;  the 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Montenegro  and  Serbia;  the  countries  of 
the Stabilization and Association Process and potential 
candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as 
well as Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia, 
align themselves with the present statement.
Today,  we  celebrate  30  years  since  the  opening 
for signature of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  on  10  December  1982  at 
Montego Bay, Jamaica. It is one of the most important 
instruments  adopted  in  the  twentieth  century.  The 
States  that  negotiated  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  —    also  known,  for  the  best  reasons,  as  the 
constitution for the oceans and seas — were prompted 
by the desire to settle, in a spirit of mutual understanding 
and  cooperation,  all  issues  relating  to  the  law  of  the 
sea and by their awareness of the historic significance 
of  the  Convention  as  an  important  contribution  to  the 
maintenance  of  peace,  justice  and  progress  for  all 
peoples of the world.
The  achievements  that  the  Convention  embodies 
are  immense.  It  crystallizes  the  realization  of  an  old 
idea  encapsulated  in  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of 
Malta’s  seminal  speech  delivered  on  1  November 
1967  before  the  First  Committee  (see  A/C.1/PV.1515), 
which  would  eventually  lead  to  the  adoption  of  the 
Convention. Important implementing instruments have 
also  been  adopted,  such  as  the  Agreement  relating 
to  the  implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention 
(resolution  48/263),  which  paved  the  way  for  the 
Convention’s  entry  into  force  in  1994,  and  the  1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
Migratory Fish Stocks. Hopefully, a decision will also 
be  agreed  without  delay  to  initiate  negotiations  for 
an  implementing  agreement  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction.
Today,  celebrating  30  years  from  that  historic 
moment,  the  Convention  is  strengthening  its  near 
universality, with 164 States parties, in that it embodies 
the  legal  framework  within  which  all  activities  in 
the  oceans  and  seas  must  be  carried  out.  Today,  we 
pay  tribute  to  the  negotiators  of  the  Convention  from 
all  of  the  States  that  participated  in  the  Third  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  and  to  all 
those who contributed to its adoption, entry into force, 
and,  eventually,  its  universal  acceptance.  We  warmly 
welcome Ecuador and Swaziland, the two new parties 
to the Convention and to the Agreement relating to the 
16 
12-64245
implementation of Part XI of the Convention. The EU 
therefore continues to call upon those States that have 
not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  the  Convention,  the  1994 
Agreement  on  the  Implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the 
Convention and the 1995 Fish Stocks Agreement.
The EU is of the view that one of the major events 
held this year was the third United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development,  known  as  Rio+20, 
and  we  thank  the  Government  of  Brazil  for  hosting 
the  Conference  and  for  the  hard  work  that  enabled  a 
successful  outcome.  The  EU  participated  fully  in  the 
negotiations  and  is  therefore  particularly  pleased  that 
the  global  community  recognized  the  importance  of 
oceans and seas and their resources and the associated 
threats  to  continued  sustainable  development.  The 
EU  is  also  pleased  to  see  that  all  States  agreed  to 
ref lect  the  outcome  of  the  Rio+20  Conference  in  the 
draft  resolutions  on  oceans  and  law  of  the  sea  and  on 
sustainable fisheries.
In particular, the EU wishes to highlight here some 
of  the  most  important  topics  that  were  tackled  in  the 
Rio+20  outcome  document  entitled  “The  Future  We 
Want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex):  marine  biodiversity 
in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction;  sustainable 
fisheries, including illegal, unreported and unregulated 
fishing; marine pollution, including marine debris; and 
the  impacts  of  climate  change,  particularly  sea-level 
rise and ocean acidification.
Once  again  this  year,  the  EU  demonstrated  its 
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, as well as to the 1995 Fish Stocks 
Agreement, by actively participating in the discussions 
that led to the drawing up of the draft resolutions before 
the  General  Assembly  today.  The  EU  firmly  believes 
that  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea is a pillar of stability, peace and progress, and that 
it  holds  special  importance  in  a  difficult  international 
context.  At  the  same  time,  the  EU  would  like  to 
reiterate  the  importance  it  attaches  to  preserving  the 
Convention’s  integrity  and  its  pre-eminent  role  as  the 
legal framework for all ocean issues and ocean-related 
activities.
Turning  now  to  the  draft  resolutions  before  us 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on  sustainable 
fisheries, the EU would like to express its appreciation 
for  the  excellent  cooperation  shown  by  all  delegations 
during the negotiations on both draft resolutions.
A/67/PV.51
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  General  Assembly 
omnibus  draft  resolution  (A/67/L.21)  once  again 
recognizes  the  scale  of  the  challenge  and  the  amount 
of effort required to combat piracy and armed robbery, 
which  affects  a  wide  range  of  vessels  engaged  in 
maritime  activities.  Furthermore,  the  EU  would  like 
to  reiterate  its  deep  concern  about  piracy,  which  is 
detrimental  to  the  safety  of  persons  and  property, 
whether  it  is  vessels  that  are  attacked  and  sometimes 
hijacked, or prisoners held for ransom. In that context, 
the EU remains committed to combating piracy and is 
undertaking  efforts  in  that  regard,  in  particular  in  the 
framework of its Operation Atalanta.
Other  major  challenges,  such  as  the  declining 
quality  of  the  marine  environment  and  the  continued 
loss of marine biodiversity, persist. Marine biodiversity 
is  being  threatened,  and  time  is  running  out  if  we 
are  to  comply  with  the  schedule  established  by  the 
Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  2002  World  Summit 
on  Sustainable  Development  in  Johannesburg  and  the 
relevant  Aichi  Biodiversity  Targets  of  the  Convention 
on Biological Diversity. In that context, the EU would 
like to highlight its support for the initiatives to protect 
the  marine  environment  taken  in  accordance  with  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
and  under  the  auspices  of  Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity,  as  well  as  in  the  framework  of  regional 
cooperation.
In various forums, the EU has repeatedly expressed 
its concerns over the loss of marine biodiversity and has 
supported the work of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal 
Working  Group  in  that  regard.  The  EU  welcomes  the 
meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group  in  New  York  from  7  to  11  May,  pursuant  to 
paragraph 168 of resolution 66/231, within the process 
initiated  by  the  General  Assembly  in  that  resolution. 
The  Working  Group  has  sought  to  ensure  that  the 
legal  framework  for  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction  effectively  addresses 
issues  by 
identifying  gaps  and  ways  forward,  including  through 
the  implementation  of  existing  instruments  and  the 
possible development of a multilateral agreement under 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
those 
The  EU  is  satisfied  with  the  exchange  of  views 
at  that  meeting  and  endorses  its  recommendations.  It 
recalls  that  in  “The  future  we  want”,  building  on  the 
work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  and  before  the 
end  of  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
12-64245
17
A/67/PV.51
States  committed  to  address,  on  an  urgent  basis, 
the  issue  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction,  including  by  taking  a  decision  on  the 
development  of  an  international  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
At  a 
the 
time  when 
international  scientific 
community  must  inspire  the  work  of  States  and 
international  organizations,  the  EU  recognizes  the 
relevance of the Regular Process for Global Reporting 
and Assessment of the State of the Marine Environment, 
including  Socio-economic  Aspects,  and  welcomes  the 
fact that the recommendations adopted by the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  the  Regular  Process 
are  endorsed  in  the  omnibus  draft  resolution.  We  also 
welcome the initiation of the second phase of the first 
cycle  of  the  Regular  Process  and  that  the  deadline  for 
the first integrated assessment is 2014. In that context, 
the EU also welcomes the regional workshops already 
hosted by Chile, China and Belgium.
The  draft  resolution  also  addresses  the  concerns 
raised  by  the  issue  of  climate  change  and  its  effects 
on  the  oceans,  seas  and  living  resources.  To  respond 
to the debates within the international community, the 
resolution  equally  takes  into  account  various  issues 
relating  to  such  phenomena  as  ocean  eutrophication, 
acidification,  fertilization,  atmospheric  discharge  of 
carbon dioxide and greenhouse-gas emission.
The 
international  community  must 
take  an 
active  role,  in  accordance  with  the  law  of  the  sea,  in 
the  preventive  movement  for  the  environment.  In 
that  regard,  the  EU  welcomes  the  choice  of  topic  for 
the  fourteenth  meeting  of  the  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process,  which  will  deal  with  ocean 
acidification.  Looking  back,  the  EU  is  satisfied  with 
the  outcome  of  the  thirteenth  meeting,  this  year, 
concerning marine renewable energies, which has been 
useful in providing an overview of developments in that 
field  and  which  will  help  us  to  reduce  carbon  dioxide 
emissions,  which  the  EU  believes  are  responsible  for 
climate change.
The  EU  appreciates  the  work  of  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  in  discharging 
its  mandate.  We  also  duly  welcome  the  decisions  of 
the  twenty-second  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Convention regarding the work of the Commission.
Turning  now  to  the  sustainable  fisheries  draft 
resolution  (A/67/L.22),  the  EU  would  like  to  reiterate 
its  strong  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Fish 
Stocks Agreement, which, it considers, operationalizes 
the  general  principles  contained  in  the  Convention 
with  regard  to  the  management  of  highly  migratory 
and  straddling  stocks.  For 
that  purpose,  while 
acknowledging  the  reservations  of  some  States,  we 
continue to believe that effective implementation of the 
Agreement  is  necessary  for  the  correct  management 
of the stocks, and consequently we exhort all States to 
become  parties.  In  that  respect,  the  EU  welcomes  the 
new parties to the Agreement, Morocco and Bangladesh.
Furthermore,  the  EU  would  like  to  express  its 
strong  belief  in  the  role  of  the  regional  fisheries 
management  organizations  or  arrangements  in  the 
sustainable  management  of  the  fisheries  resource  and 
highly  values  the  performance  reviews  undertaken  by 
a number of them. The EU is therefore pleased that this 
year’s draft resolution encourages the regional fisheries 
management organizations or arrangements to continue 
that exercise and to undertake such reviews on a regular 
basis.
The EU believes the draft resolution should highlight 
the  most  important  and  topical  issues  concerning 
sustainable  fisheries.  Thus  we  are  pleased  to  see  that 
it  acknowledges  the  need  for  proper  management  of 
fish  aggregating  devices,  including  data  collection,  as 
well  as  the  greater  importance  given  to  the  protection 
of sharks.
The  EU  would  like  to  reiterate  once  more  its 
appreciation  for  the  work  done  by  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of 
the  United  Nations. 
particularly  the  work  of  its  Committee  on  Fisheries. 
We hold that the work of that Committee complements 
what  we  try  to  achieve  with  the  sustainable  fisheries 
resolution.  Consequently,  we  have  been  happy  to 
endorse  the  outcomes  of  the  thirtieth  meeting  of  that 
Committee,  including  the  work  on  deep-sea  species, 
marine species occupying low trophic levels, the Global 
Record  of  Fishing  Vessels,  Refrigerated  Transport 
Vessels  and  Supply  Vessels,  and  the  guidelines  to 
assist  competent  authorities  in  the  implementation  of 
voluntary instruments on the design, construction and 
equipment of fishing vessels and a new safety standard 
for small fishing vessels.
The safety of fishers and fishing vessels is indeed 
important  for  the  EU.  Consequently,  we  welcome    the 
fact  that  the  draft  resolution  refers  to  the  new  Cape 
Town  Agreement,  and  we  call  upon  States  to  become 
18 
12-64245
party to that Agreement so that it can enter into force at 
the earliest opportunity.
Lastly,  the  EU  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude 
to the Secretariat and to the Division for Ocean Affairs 
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the  work  done  during  the 
year, including the preparation of the annual report on 
oceans and the law of the sea, an invaluable compilation 
of  recent  developments.  We  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  coordinators  of  the  two  draft  resolutions  for  their 
unrelenting efforts to reach a consensus.
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on agenda item 75 (a) on behalf of the members of the 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM):  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  the  Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica, 
Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Suriname, 
Trinidad and Tobago and my own country, Jamaica.
CARICOM welcomes the very comprehensive and 
informative report of the Secretary-General contained 
in document A/67/79/Add.1, and other related documents 
concerning  developments  and  issues  relating  to  ocean 
affairs and the law of the sea.
CARICOM 
is  naturally  delighted 
that  our 
annual  General  Assembly  debate  coincides  with  the 
special  plenary  session  simultaneously  being  held 
in  commemoration  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  (UNCLOS),  which  was  opened  for  signature  in 
Montego  Bay,  Jamaica  on  10  December  1982.  It  is 
therefore  important  and  worthwhile  for  us  to  recall 
that  the  provisions  of  the  Convention,  which  define 
the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  nations  in  their  use 
of  the  world’s  oceans  and  establishes  guidelines  for 
businesses,  the  environment  and  the  management 
of  the  marine  natural  resources,  make  that  landmark 
international instrument as relevant today as it was 30 
years ago, when it was adopted.
CARICOM notes that the Convention is accepted by 
an increasing number of States as the constitution of our 
oceans and seas. We are particularly pleased that, since 
the  publication  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Secretary-
General, 
two  Member  States,  namely,  Swaziland 
and  Ecuador,  became  parties  to  the  Convention  in 
September, thereby bringing the total number of States 
parties to 164.
CARICOM  member  States  continue 
rely 
significantly  on  the  use  of  the  Caribbean  Sea  for  the 
to 
A/67/PV.51
conduct  of  our  regional  and  international  maritime 
trade and commerce, as well as for the development of 
our  tourism  and  fisheries  industries.  Accordingly,  the 
protection  of  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the  sustainable 
management  of  its  resources,  including  preservation 
of 
the  marine  environment,  remains  a  priority 
for  CARICOM  member  States.  We  welcome  the 
acknowledgement of the inextricable linkages between 
the  protection  and  sustainable  management  of  the 
marine  environment  for  sustainable  development  in 
all its dimensions in “The future we want” (resolution 
66/288,  annex).  That  was  the  outcome  document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, which took place in Rio de Janeiro from 
20 to 22 June of this year.
We  wish  to  commend  the  work  and  activities 
of  the  Caribbean  Sea  Commission,  which  since  its 
establishment  in  2006  has  been  spearheading  the 
initiative  to  designate  the  Caribbean  Sea  as  a  special 
area in the context of sustainable development. We also 
welcome  the  continued  interest  of  the  members  of  the 
international  community  in  that  endeavour,  evident in 
their  continued  engagement  in  the  negotiations  on  the 
biennial  resolution  entitled  “Towards  the  sustainable 
development of the Caribbean Sea for present and future 
generations”.  Despite  the  progress  made  through  the 
efforts  of  the  Caribbean  Sea  Commission,  CARICOM 
member  States  remain  concerned  about  the  threats  to 
the  preservation  and  protection  of  the  region’s  marine 
environment and fragile ecosystems as a result of land-
based run-offs, oil spills and ballast-water exchange.
We welcome the timely activities being undertaken 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme, 
by 
in  conjunction  with 
the  Caribbean  Environment 
Programme, in developing partnerships and integrated 
approaches  in  such  areas  as  wastewater  management 
and  sanitation,  sustainable  agricultural  practices, 
integrated  coastal  management,  sustainable  tourism 
and  environmentally  sound  maritime  transport  in 
the  wider  Caribbean  region.  We  also  seek  urgent 
international  cooperation  in  order  to  address  other 
pressing challenges such as the significant vulnerability 
of  corals  and  coral  reefs  to  climate  change,  ocean 
acidification, overfishing, destructive fishing practices 
and pollution.      
CARICOM  member  States  highly  value 
the 
capacity-building programmes being made available to 
Member  States  under  the  auspices  of  the  Division  for 
Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  particularly  in 
12-64245
19
A/67/PV.51
the area of marine scientific research. We are especially 
pleased  to  see  the  growing  number  of  countries  that 
have benefited from the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe 
Memorial  Fellowship  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
United Nations-Nippon Foundation of Japan Fellowship 
Programme.  They  are  of  crucial  importance,  given 
the  global  significance  of  oceans  to  the  sustainable 
development of our economies.
While  CARICOM  acknowledges 
the  right  of 
Member  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  we  remain  deeply  concerned  about  the 
continued  transportation  of  nuclear  waste  and  other 
hazardous  material  through  the  Caribbean  Sea.  Such 
activities  are  potential  threats  to  the  lives  and  health 
of  our  citizens,  the  environment  and  indeed  our 
economies.
Like  the  rest  of  the  international  community, 
CARICOM  remains  deeply  alarmed  at  the  continued 
acts  and  attempted  acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery 
at sea, in the Horn of Africa off the coast of Somalia, 
the Gulf of Guinea and the Indian Ocean. Nevertheless, 
we  are  heartened  to  note  that  since  2011  there  has 
been  a  reduction  in  the  number  of  attacks,  owing  to 
the  application  of  best  practices  by  the  international 
shipping  industry,  the  continuing  naval  presence  and 
the  deployment  of  military  protection  detachments, 
among other factors.
In  addition  to  existing  threats  posed  by  the 
trafficking  of  drugs,  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
CARICOM is also seriously concerned at the repeated 
incidents of human trafficking and migrant smuggling 
by  sea.  However,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  to 
address  those  threats,  including  the  publication  of  the 
International  Framework  for  Action  to  Implement  the 
Smuggling of Migrants Protocol.
CARICOM  commends  the  important  work  being 
undertaken by the three constitutive organs established 
by  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea: the Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf,  the  International  Seabed  Authority  and  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. 
With regard to the International Seabed Authority, 
CARICOM  welcomes  the  successful  outcome  of  the 
eighteenth Session of the Authority, which culminated 
in the adoption of the draft regulations on prospecting 
and  exploration  for  cobalt-rich  ferromanganese  crusts 
in the Area. We are satisfied that those regulations have 
been crafted in full accordance with the provisions of the 
Convention relating to the protection and preservation 
of  the  marine  environment.  CARICOM  looks  forward 
to  the  nineteenth  session  of  the  Authority,  in  2013,  at 
which it is expected that work on the draft regulations 
for  the  exploitation  of  deep  seabed  resources  will 
finally commence.
With regard to the workload of the Commission on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  CARICOM  notes 
from  the  addendum  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
that the economic promises offered by the exploitation 
of  seabed  resources  have  also  led  to  a  steep  increase 
in the number of submissions to the Commission. The 
increase coincided with what for many States parties to 
the Convention was the end, on 13 May 2009, of the 10-
year period for making submissions to the Commission. 
We also note with interest the greater political attention 
being  paid,  at  the  highest  level,  to  supporting  the 
process  to  establish  the  outer  limits  of  the  continental 
shelf.  CARICOM  is  therefore  reassured  by  the  very 
positive  and  important  work  being  undertaken  by 
the  constitutive  organs,  which  amply  demonstrates 
the  continued  relevance  of  the  Convention  to  the 
international community.
Finally,  CARICOM  closely  shares  and  indeed 
endorses the observations outlined in the conclusion of 
the Secretary-General’s report that 
“[o]ceans  play  a  key  role  in  our  lives  whether  or 
not  we  live  in  coastal  areas.  They  are  integral 
to 
sustainable  development,  offering  many 
development opportunities such as achieving food 
security,  facilitating  trade,  creating  employment 
and generating tourism.” (A/67/79/Add.1, para. 178) 
For CARICOM member States, these observations 
resonate  strongly  with  our  Governments,  as  they 
serve  to  underline  the  vital  importance  of  the  oceans 
and  the  utmost  necessity  of  protecting  and  preserving 
the  marine  environment,  so  as  to  better  safeguard  the 
economic  livelihoods  of  our  countries  and  our  very 
survival  as  viable  nation  States.  We  therefore  urge 
the  international  community  to  respond  urgently  to 
the  Secretary-General’s  appeal  for  Member  States  to 
facilitate greater adherence to, and implementation and 
enforcement of, the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  and  its  implementing  agreements,  as 
well as other relevant instruments.
Mr.  Beck  (Palau):  On  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Island 
Forum countries represented at the United Nations, I am 
20 
12-64245
A/67/PV.51
pleased to support the adoption of the draft resolution 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/67/L.21)  and  on 
sustainable fisheries (A/67/L.22).
The  year  2012  has  been  an  important  year  for  the 
oceans.  Pacific  Island  Forum  leaders  welcomed  the 
strong  outcomes  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20) on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  oceans  and  fisheries,  and  they 
agreed to use those outcomes to build global consensus 
on  the  importance  of  sustainable  development  of  the 
Pacific  Ocean  for  the  benefit  of  the  peoples  of  the 
Pacific during our 2012 Pacific Island Forum on “Large 
Ocean Island States — the Pacific Challenge”.
We  are  very  pleased  to  see  that  the  international 
community has reaffirmed the need for urgent collective 
action  to  address  the  state  of  our  oceans  and  fisheries 
by  incorporating  the  Rio+20  commitments  into  these 
General Assembly draft resolutions. The commitments 
from  Rio  represent  an  ambitious  beginning,  but  we 
need  to  remain  mindful  that  they  are  not  an  outcome 
in  themselves.  We  need  to  work  together  to  ensure 
that the effective implementation required to make the 
commitments meaningful does indeed take place.
We  particularly  welcome  the  Rio  call  to  identify 
and  mainstream  by  2014  strategies  that  further  assist 
least  developed  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS)  in  developing  their  national  capacity  to 
conserve,  sustainably  manage  and  realize  the  benefits 
of  sustainable  fisheries.  Maximizing  the  benefits  of 
sustainable fisheries resources for the SIDS remains a 
key focus for the Pacific.
workshops  on  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of    national 
jurisdiction — agreed in the oceans draft resolution — to 
be convened in 2013 will allow us to make the necessary 
progress on the technical issues.
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  oceans  draft 
resolution recognizes the impacts of climate change on 
the  oceans.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  decision 
to  discuss  ocean  acidification  in  the  United  Nations 
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and the Law of the Sea in 2013. We were disappointed 
that  it  was  not  possible  to  also  agree  on  a  topic  in  the 
Informal  Consultative  Process  relating  to  the  Rio+20 
follow-up on the oceans. We remind States that as the 
international  community  takes  the  Rio+20  outcomes 
forward,  oceans  must  be  considered  and  explored  as 
part  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  the  all-
important sustainable development goal process.
We  welcome  the  support  in  the  oceans  draft 
resolution  for  the  current  assessment  phase  of  the 
Regular Process. Pacific States are working together to 
contribute  to  the  assessment,  and  Australia  will  host 
a  regional  workshop  for  South-West  Pacific  States  in 
February  2013.  We  encourage  all  States  to  participate 
actively  to  ensure  that  maximum  progress  is  made 
in  advance  of  the  2014  deadline  for  that  phase  of  the 
assessment process.
Before concluding, Palau wishes to associate itself 
with the statement to be made shortly by the Permanent 
Representative of Samoa on behalf of the Pacific small 
island developing States. We also wish to take a moment 
to make a few remarks in our national capacity.
Indeed, 2014 will be a very important year for the 
Pacific,  as  Samoa  will  host  the  Third  International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States.  At 
that  Conference,  which  comes  once  a  generation, 
SIDS  leaders  will  meet  to  consider  the  sustainable 
development  challenges 
including 
challenges relating to the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  resources  and  the  preservation  of  the 
marine environment. We look forward to the support of 
all to ensure the success of the meeting.
facing  SIDS, 
We also welcome the urgent call to address issues 
relating  to  the  conservation  of  marine  biodiversity 
beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction.  We  are 
encouraged  that  States  agreed  on  a  time  frame  in 
which a decision on whether to develop an international 
instrument  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea should be taken. The intersessional 
Palau’s Constitution obliges the Government to take 
positive  action  to  conserve  a  beautiful,  healthful  and 
resource-full  natural  environment.  That  constitutional 
obligation finds its origin in Palau’s ancient culture and 
tradition  and  is  one  to  which  Palau’s  leaders  remain 
committed.  It  is  a  testament  to  their  stewardship  of 
Palau’s marine environment that UNESCO designated 
Palau’s  Rock  Islands  a  natural  and  cultural  World 
Heritage  Site  this  year  and  the  World  Future  Council 
awarded  Palau’s  Protected  Areas  Network  and  Shark 
Sanctuary the only World Future Policy Gold Prize of 
2012.
However,  Palau  cannot  act  alone.  If  the  domestic 
efforts  of  Palau  are  to  be  effective,  the  world  as  a 
whole must take action to ensure a healthy, sustainable 
ocean. That is why Palau has actively championed three 
straightforward  fisheries  principles:  global  fisheries 
12-64245
21
A/67/PV.51
should  be  fair;  global  fisheries  should  be  sustainable; 
and  global  fisheries  should  be  accountable.  More 
concretely, that is why Palau has advocated the end of 
bottom-trawling,  shark-finning  and  the  use  of  other 
unsustainable  fishing  practices.  Palau  is  very  pleased 
that  this  year’s  resolutions  incorporate  language  on 
equity  for  developing  coastal  States  and  welcome  the 
growing shark-sanctuary movement.
in 
We  look  forward  to  the  crafting  of  a  new  set 
of  sustainable  development  goals  (SDGs) 
the 
coming  year.  Palau  has  long  considered  that  a  healthy 
environment is the key to our sustainable development. 
The SDGs give us a further opportunity to ensure that 
oceans  are  part  of  the  global  sustainability  agenda, 
going  forward.  To  that  end,  we  will  work  with  others 
on the open working group on sustainable development 
goals to craft a sustainable development goal on healthy 
and productive oceans.
Finally,  as  I  speak  today,  Palau  remains  in  a 
state  of  emergency  brought  about  by  super-Typhoon 
Bopha  —  the  first  typhoon  in  Palau’s  recent  history. 
Barely a month after Hurricane Sandy devastated New 
York  and  New  Jersey,  Bopha  has  caused  immense 
damage and has displaced hundreds of families of Palau. 
But Palau is fortunate. On course for our most populous 
centres,  the  typhoon  veered  south  at  the  last  minute, 
averting  what  would  have  been  certain  devastation. 
Our hearts and prayers are with those who bore its full 
force, particularly our friends in the Philippines, where 
at  least  600  people  are  dead  and  countless  others  are 
missing.
Typhoon  Bopha  was  a  terrible  reminder,  as  was 
Hurricane Sandy, of the fragility of our relationship with 
the oceans. Ocean warming, acidification and sea level 
rise affect us all — some more than others, sometimes 
more  dramatically  than  at  other  times,  but  no  one  is 
immune. The world’s efforts ref lected in today’s draft 
resolutions and in the creation of the SDGs will be for 
nothing, if we do not deal urgently and effectively with 
the causes of climate change.
Mr.  Elisaia  (Samoa):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on behalf of the Pacific small island developing States 
represented  at  the  United  Nations,  namely,  Fiji,  the 
Marshall  Islands,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia, 
Nauru,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Solomon  Islands, 
Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own country, Samoa.
The  ocean  plays  an  important  role  in  the  lives  of 
all  Pacific  island  peoples,  and  its  importance  cannot 
be  emphasized  enough.  For  the  Pacific  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS),  the  green  economy  and  the 
blue  economy  are  complementary,    which  emphasizes 
the  fact  that  the  economies  of  many  of  our  countries 
are largely dependent on the health and sustainable use 
of the ocean and its resources , as well as on land. That 
continues to be echoed time and again by our respective 
leaders  in  many  international  forums,  including  the 
United  Nations  and  in  our  very  own  Pacific  Islands 
Forum,  which  last  August  met  under  the  apt  theme, 
“Large Ocean Island States — the Pacific Challenge”. 
The  Pacific  SIDS  welcome  the  strong  language 
agreed  in  the  oceans  and  seas  section  of  the  outcome 
document  (resolution  66/288,  annex)  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20),  noting  in  particular  the  points  on  climate 
change  and  ocean  acidification,  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  management  of  oceans,  and  coastal  and 
fisheries resources. We are pleased to see that important 
elements  from  the  Rio+20  outcome  document  have 
been  incorporated  in  the  resolution  and  that  other 
pertinent  points  have  been  added  to  the  two  draft 
resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea (A/67/L.21) 
and  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/67/L.22).  For  the  sake 
of  brevity,  I  will  only  list  those  points,  rather  than  go 
into detail. 
elements 
include 
Those 
developing 
and 
science-based  management  plans, 
implementing 
including by reducing or suspending fishing catch and 
fishing effort commensurate with the status of the stock. 
The  importance  of  access  to  fisheries  and  to  markets, 
especially for SIDS, is stressed. Illegal, unreported and 
unregulated  fishing  must  be  combated,  and  by-catch, 
discards  and  other  adverse  ecosystem  impacts  from 
fisheries  must  be  managed,  including  by  eliminating 
destructive  fishing  practices.  States  must  commit  to 
enhanced protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems. 
The  importance  of  enabling  developing  countries 
to  benefit  from  the  conservation  and  management  of 
oceans  is  stressed,  and  the  need  for  capacity-building 
and transfer of technology is emphasized.
They  stress  the  need  to  identify  and  mainstream 
by  2014  strategies  that  will  assist  SIDS  to  develop 
their  capacity  to  conserve,  sustainably  manage  and 
realize  the  benefits  of  sustainable  fisheries.  They 
express  concern  about  marine  pollution  and  point  to 
the  need  to  adopt  coordinated  strategies  to  address  it 
by  2025.  They  point  to  the  importance  of  addressing 
ocean acidification and its effects on fish stocks. They 
22 
12-64245
invite States and international financial institutions to 
develop special financial mechanisms or instruments to 
assist SIDS to develop their national capacity to exploit 
fisheries  resources,  and  they  welcome  the  increasing 
attention being focused on oceans as a potential source 
of renewable energy.
The  Pacific  SIDS  also  welcome  the  reference  in 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea to the convening in 2014 of the Third International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  which 
will  be  held  in  Samoa.  The  Conference  presents  a 
timely  opportunity  for  continuing  discussions  among 
member  States  on  the  challenges  relating  to  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  resources 
and  the  preservation  of  the  marine  environment  for 
SIDS,  among  other  topics.  While  the  aforementioned 
issues  are  formidable  challenges,  beyond  the  capacity 
of  individual  SIDS  to  address  on  their  own,  they 
are  by  no  means  insurmountable.  Through  genuine 
partnerships among all stakeholders, working together 
on  sustainable  solutions  that  are  focused,  forward-
looking  and  implementable,  the  Conference  in  Samoa 
will  offer  a  unique  opportunity  to  move  beyond  mere 
discussions  to  the  actual  launch  of  tangible  initiatives 
to address some of the challenges SIDS are facing. 
The  Pacific  SIDS  welcome  the  decision  to  have 
ocean  acidification  as  the  topic  for  discussion  in  2013 
in the Informal Consultative Process, bearing in mind 
that climate change and ocean acidification remain the 
greatest  threat  to  the  livelihoods,  security  and  well-
being of the peoples of the Pacific SIDS. 
We commend the Secretary-General on the recently 
launched  Oceans  Compact  initiative,  which  rightly 
provides  a  strategic  vision  for  the  United  Nations 
system to deliver on its ocean-related mandates and for 
all  stakeholders  to  work  towards  achieving  the  shared 
objective  of  “Healthy  Oceans  for  Prosperity”.  We 
welcome the heightened attention being paid to oceans 
and  look  forward  to  working  cooperatively  with  the 
Secretary-General in a transparent process in order to 
ensure the success of the initiative. 
Finally,  on  the  way  forward,  the  Pacific  SIDS 
emphasize  the  importance  of  oceans  being  adequately 
ref lected in discussions and decisions on the post-2015 
United Nations development agenda, including having 
healthy and productive oceans as one of the sustainable 
development  goals.  We  are  looking  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on the Post-2015 
Development Agenda. For our part, we will also actively 
A/67/PV.51
participate  in  the  open  working  group  on  sustainable 
development goals.
Mrs.  Perceval  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  thank  both  coordinators, 
Ambassador Eden Charles of Trinidad and Tobago and 
Ms. Alice Revell of New Zealand, for having conducted 
the negotiations on the draft resolutions before us today 
(A/67/L.21  and  A/67/L.22).  They  both  took  on  that 
responsibility for the first time and demonstrated their 
knowledge of the issues and their leadership. 
As it does every year in the General Assembly, my 
delegation reiterates that the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is one of the clearest 
contributions  to  the  strengthening  of  peace,  security, 
cooperation  and  friendly  relations  among  nations.  At 
the  same  time,  it  constitutes  one  of  the  international 
instruments  with 
the  most  significant  economic, 
strategic  and  political  implications.  The  objective  of 
the  negotiators  of  the  Convention,  which  in  2012  is 
celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of its opening for 
signature, was to solve “all issues relating to the law of 
the sea” in one single instrument. 
The  provisions  of  the  Convention  thus  constitute 
a  delicate  balance  of  rights  and  obligations  of  States 
that  emerged  after  nine  years  of  negotiations.  That 
balance  is  to  be  preserved  by  all  States,  individually 
and  as  members  of  international  organizations  with  a 
competence in ocean affairs or of other organizations. 
That  delicate  balance  is  also  to  be  preserved  even 
as  we  address  new  challenges  to  the  law  of  the  sea, 
whether in the processes established in the framework 
of  the  General  Assembly,  in  the  specialized  agencies 
with  specific  competence  to  do  so  as  recognized  by 
UNCLOS, or by any initiative of the Secretary-General 
or  of  financial  institutions,  which  initiatives  should 
also  have  adequate  consultation  with  Member  States. 
The Convention has a clearly universal character and is 
accepted as a legally binding norm, even by non-parties, 
as it constitutes in itself customary international law. 
The Argentine delegation will make an explanation 
of  position  in  relation  to  the  draft  resolution  on 
sustainable  fisheries  (A/67/L.22).  Allow  me  now  to 
make some remarks on the issues dealt with in both that 
draft  resolution  and  in  the  draft  resolution  on  oceans 
and the law of the sea (A/67/L.21). 
The  question  of  biodiversity  beyond  the  limits 
of  national  jurisdiction  is  one  of  the  newest  issues  of 
the  current  law  of  the  sea.  At  its  sixty-sixth  session, 
12-64245
23
A/67/PV.51
and  following  the  recommendations  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  established  by 
resolution  59/24,  the  General  Assembly  decided  to 
initiate a process to ensure the legal framework for the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction,  which  also 
contemplates the possibility of negotiating a multilateral 
agreement under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, that is, an implementing agreement of 
the pertinent principles of the Convention. The process 
that will develop in the context of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  will  address  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction,  in  particular,  together  and  as  a  whole, 
marine  genetic  resources,  including  the  sharing  of 
benefits, conservation measures, capacity-building and 
the transfer of technology.  Argentina welcomes the fact 
that the Working Group, with its new mandate, held its 
first meeting in May. 
We also welcome the fact that the General Assembly, 
in  the  draft  resolution  before  us,  has  provided  for 
convening  workshops  to  deepen  technical  knowledge 
and will endorse not only the recommendations of the 
Working  Group,  but  also  the  commitment  of  States 
contained  in  the  outcome  document  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) to make progress in the work 
with a view to adopting a decision before the end of the 
Assembly’s sixty-ninth session to convene a conference 
to negotiate an UNCLOS implementing agreement. 
that 
Regarding 
the  substance  of 
issue,  my 
delegation wishes to reiterate that it must be duly taken 
into account that the expression “areas beyond national 
jurisdiction” comprises two maritime areas — the high 
seas and the Area — and that one of the objectives of 
the Convention, as set out in the Preamble, was 
develop 
the 
embodied 
principles 
“to 
in 
resolution  2749  (XXV)  of  17  December  1970  in 
which the General Assembly of the United Nations 
solemnly  declared  inter  alia  that  the  area  of  the 
seabed  and  ocean  f loor  and  the  subsoil  thereof, 
beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, as well as 
its resources, are the common heritage of mankind, 
the  exploration  and  exploitation  of  which  shall  be 
carried out for the benefit of mankind as a whole”.
In line with the statements made by the Group of 77 and 
China  in  its  two  most  recent  ministerial  declarations, 
we  reiterate  that  that  principle  should  be  the  basis  for 
the consideration of the issue.
Argentina  commends  the  Commission  on  the 
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  for  its  continuous  and 
devoted  work.  In  2012,  the  twenty-second  Meeting  of 
States Parties to UNCLOS elected the members of the 
Commission.  Following  decision  SPLOS/229  of  the 
Meeting  of  States  Parties,  the  Commission  extended 
the  duration  of  its  sessions  as  well  as  those  of  its 
subcommissions. Consequently, the draft resolution on 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  reiterates  the  request  to 
the  Secretary-General  to  take  appropriate  and  timely 
steps  to  ensure  that  secretariat  services  are  provided 
to  the  Commission  and  its  subcommissions.  That  is  a 
request that Argentina fully supports, and we call upon 
all  Member  States  to  honour  that  commitment,  which 
has been agreed to by the meeting of States Parties and 
the General Assembly.
In  addition,  I  would  like  to  recall  once  again 
that  the  work  of  the  Commission  deals  with  the 
tracing — that is to say, the demarcation — of the limit 
already  established  in  article  76,  not  to  the  rights  of 
coastal  States,  and  that  article  77,  paragraph  3,  of  the 
Convention provides that 
“[t]he rights of the coastal State over the continental 
shelf  do  not  depend  on  occupation,  effective  or 
notional, or on any express proclamation.” 
That reminder is also ref lected in paragraph 59 of the 
draft resolution on oceans and the law of the sea.
The  International  Seabed  Authority,  following 
the  recommendation  of 
its  Legal  and  Technical 
Commission,  decided,  at  its  eighteenth  session,  to 
establish  areas  of  special  environmental  interest  in 
the  Clarion-Clipperton  zone.  Argentina  supports  that 
measure for the protection of the marine environment. 
My  country  calls  upon  the  members  of  the  Authority 
to continue to make progress in the adoption of norms, 
regulations  and  measures  for  the  preservation  of  the 
marine environment pursuant to its competencies under 
article 145 of the Convention. Moreover, the Authority 
must continue the marine scientific research activities 
entrusted  to  it  under  article  143  of  the  Convention. 
In  line  with  the  provisions  of  the  draft  resolution,  we 
call on international organizations and other donors to 
support the Authority’s fund with a view to developing 
cooperative  scientific 
research  programmes  with 
scientists  and  technicians  from  developing  countries. 
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  presence  in  this 
Assembly,  as  every  year,  of  the  Secretary-General  of 
the International Seabed Authority, Mr. Nii Odunton.
24 
12-64245
The  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  is  the  independent  judicial  institution  established 
by  the  Convention.  Argentina  would  like  especially 
to  recognize  the  presence  of  the  President  of  the 
Tribunal, Judge Shunji Yanai, at this meeting. Since its 
establishment, the Tribunal has examined 20 cases, all 
of them having to do with various aspects of the law of 
the sea. Among them, allow me to highlight the advisory 
opinion  issued  by  the  Seabed  Disputes  Chamber  in 
2011  regarding  Responsibilities  and  obligations  of 
States  sponsoring  persons  and  entities  with  respect  to 
activities in the Area. That advisory opinion represents 
the  first  time  that  those  two  institutions  established 
by the Convention interacted with each other pursuant 
to  article  191  of  the  Convention  and  in  compliance 
with  the  objective  of  guarding  the  common  heritage 
of  humankind.  Argentina  is  one  of  the  States  parties 
that participated in the advisory opinion and welcomes 
the high level of participation occasioned about by that 
advisory  opinion.  Such  participation  demonstrates  the 
commitment  of  States  to  the  regime  established  by 
UNCLOS  for  the  Area  and  to  the  institutions  created 
by the Convention.
Argentina  has  supported  the  work  of  the  Tribunal 
since  its  inception  and  is  one  of  the  34  States  parties 
that  have  accepted  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Tribunal. 
Today,  Argentina  is  pleased  to  see  that  the  Tribunal’s 
jurisprudence  has  strengthened 
the 
specialized tribunal for the law of the sea, as foreseen in 
the negotiations on the Convention, and we welcome its 
contribution to preserving the integrity of international 
law.
role  as 
its 
  As  regards  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries, my delegation must reiterate the need not to 
ignore the rule governing all law of the sea negotiations, 
namely,  the  rule  of  proceeding  by  consensus,  which 
was  inherited  from  the  negotiations  on  UNCLOS.  At 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  that 
rule was not followed with regard to one aspect of the 
resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries,  and  my  delegation 
found  itself  forced  to  make  reference  to  that  in  its 
explanation of vote (see A/65/PV.59). We would like to 
recall that consensus is the only way of ensuring wide 
acceptance of the resolutions of the General Assembly, 
and it must be respected in the negotiations.
Regarding  the  protection  of  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems,  particularly  with  reference  to  paragraphs 
83  to  87  of  resolution  61/105,  paragraphs  113  to  117 
and  119  to  127  of  resolution  64/72,  and  the  relevant 
A/67/PV.51
paragraphs  of  subsequent  resolutions,  it  must  be 
recalled  that,  in  accordance  with  article  77  of  the 
Convention, the sedentary resources of the continental 
shelf  are  subject  to  the  sovereign  rights  of  the  coastal 
States  over  the  full  extent  of  that  maritime  area. 
Therefore,  the  conservation  and  management  of  such 
resources is under the exclusive power of coastal States, 
which  are  responsible  for  adopting  the  necessary 
measures regarding such resources and their associated 
ecosystems that could be affected by fishing practices 
that  can  have  a  destructive  impact,  including  bottom 
trawling in the high seas. 
In that regard, I am pleased to recall that Argentina 
has adopted measures for the conservation of sedentary 
resources  and  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  situated 
within the full extent of its continental shelf. The draft 
resolution on sustainable fisheries recalls in paragraph 
137, as it does every year, the exclusivity of the rights 
of  the  coastal  State  in  areas  of  its  continental  shelf 
beyond  200  miles.  Additionally  and  in  accordance 
with  what  we  just  highlighted,    paragraph  138  notes 
both the conservation measures adopted and the efforts 
made by coastal States to ensure compliance with those 
measures over the full extent of their continental shelf.
Also  regarding  fisheries,  my  country  wishes  to 
reiterate  its  concern  regarding  an  increasing  trend 
towards trying to legitimize, through General Assembly 
resolutions, attempts by regional fisheries management 
organizations  to  adopt  measures  beyond  their  spatial, 
material  and  personal  area  of  competence.  Argentina 
objects  to  the  fact  that  General  Assembly  resolutions 
could  be  interpreted  in  that  manner,  particularly  with 
respect  to  measures  that  could  ref lect  some  kind  of 
claim of authority on the part of such organizations over 
f lag  ships  of  countries  that  are  not  members  of  such 
organizations and have not consented to such measures, 
which  would  contradict  one  of  the  basic  norms  of  the 
law of treaties.
Finally,  as  it  does  every  year  when  the  General 
Assembly considers the report of the Secretary-General 
on oceans and the law of the sea and the relevant draft 
resolutions, Argentina wishes to express its appreciation 
to  the  Division  of  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea,  under  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Sergey  Tarasenko, 
for its professional and devoted work as well as for the 
assistance  that  it  spontaneously  provides  to  Member 
States on matters within its competence.
12-64245
25
A/67/PV.51
Mr.  AlFahad  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, it gives me pleasure to offer my gratitude to the 
President on his efficiency in conducting the work of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  current  session.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on 
oceans and the law of the sea, submitted in accordance 
with resolution 66/231.
The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  information  in 
the Secretary-General’s reports on oceans and the law 
of the sea, and affirms that the use of renewable marine 
energy  can  help  build  a  sustainable  future  and  create 
job opportunities as well as strengthen energy security, 
which can enable us to achieve the goals of sustainable 
development.
Renewable  marine  energy,  as  a  source  of  energy, 
is  therefore  part  and  parcel  of  the  global  vision  for 
sustainable  development.  For  that  reason,  the  State 
of  Kuwait  emphasizes  the  importance  of  increasing 
investments  in  technology,  research  and  development 
and  capacity-building,  as  well  as  the  transfer  of  such 
technology,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  the  exploitation 
of energy sources, particularly in developing countries.
Today, we celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening for signature of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  considered  to  be 
a  constitution  for  the  oceans.  The  State  of  Kuwait 
acceded to the Convention in 1986, and, in view of the 
importance we attach to that issue, in 2002 we ratified 
the  Agreement  concerning  the  implementation  of 
Part  XI  of  the  Convention.  Furthermore,  in  2003  the 
State  of  Kuwait  became  party  to  the  Convention  for 
the  Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the  Safety 
of  Maritime  Navigation,  and  is  also  a  party  to  the 
Protocol  concerning  Marine  Pollution  Resulting  from 
Exploration and Exploitation of the Continental Shelf.
In that context, Kuwait welcomes the increase in the 
number of the States party to UNCLOS, which has now 
reached 164. We call on States that are not yet party to 
the Convention to accede, in order to help achieve our 
development  goals  and  strengthen  international  peace 
and  security.  We  also  emphasize  the  importance  of 
respecting international law and relevant international 
agreements  and  conventions,  and  of  ensuring  their 
implementation.
increase 
The  current 
in  criminal  activities, 
including  acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against 
ships,  constitutes  a  danger  to  international  trade  and 
a threat to maritime navigation, as well as a risk to the 
lives  of  those  who  work  on  such  vessels.  The  State  of 
Kuwait therefore condemns any act of piracy, hijacking 
of  commercial  vessels  or  terrorism  on  the  high  seas, 
and commends the efforts in that regard of the Contact 
Group  on  Piracy  off  the  Coast  of  Somalia,  as  well  as 
those  of  the  Security  Council.  We  need  a  concerted 
effort  on  the  part  of  the  international  community  to 
confront  acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against 
ships through effective implementation of international 
law and the law of the sea, as well as the relevant legal 
instruments  aimed  at  combating  piracy.  In  that  regard 
and  based  on  the  importance  that  the  State  of  Kuwait 
attaches  to  combating  piracy,  in  the  past  year  we 
contributed $1 million to the United Nations Trust Fund 
to  Support  the  Initiatives  of  States  to  Counter  Piracy 
off the Coast of Somalia.
We  affirm  our  support  for  Security  Council 
resolution  2077  (2012),  of  20  November  2012,  which, 
under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  calls  on  all  States 
to criminalize piracy in their domestic laws and make 
active  efforts  to  prosecute  pirates  and  other  suspects 
and detain those who facilitate their work and fund them 
on  land,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  international 
human rights and humanitarian law.
In  conclusion,  we  call  on  all  Member  States  to 
cooperate in and carry out joint efforts to benefit from 
our  marine  resources  by  exploiting  technology  and 
acceding  to  every  legal  instrument  and  international 
convention  that  can  help  achieve  the  environmental 
sustainability  that  we  all  desire  and  that  will  help  to 
strengthen international peace and security.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the f loor to the President of the International Tribunal 
for the Law of the Sea.
Mr.  Yanai  (International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea):  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  take  the  f loor 
on  behalf  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  in  the  General  Assembly  on  its  agenda  item 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  The  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea is one of the key dispute 
settlement  mechanisms  established  by  the  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  It  was  set  up  as  a  specialized 
court, universal in nature, to be called on to deal with 
disputes  of  any  kind  concerning  the  sea  or  activity 
carried  out  at  sea.  Twenty  cases  have  been  submitted 
to the Tribunal since it began operating in 1996. They 
have  dealt  with  a  number  of  questions,  such  as  the 
legality  of  enforcement  measures  imposed  on  foreign 
vessels in the exclusive economic zone, the use of force 
26 
12-64245
A/67/PV.51
at sea, the prompt release of detained vessels and crews, 
the  protection  of  fishery  resources  and  of  the  marine 
environment and the delimitation of maritime areas.
On  14 November,  a  request  for  the prescription  of 
provisional  measures  was  submitted  to  the  Tribunal 
by  Argentina  in  a  dispute  with  Ghana  concerning  the 
detention  by  the  Ghanaian  authorities  of  the  frigate 
ARA  Libertad.  In  the  M/V  Louisa  case  between  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  and  the  Kingdom  of 
Spain,  the  Tribunal  delivered  an  order  on  a  request 
for  provisional  measures  submitted  by  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines.  The  hearing  on  the  merits  was 
held  from  4  to  10  October,  and  the  case  is  now  under 
deliberation.  In  the  M/V  Virginia  G  case  between 
Panama  and  Guinea-Bissau,  the  written  proceedings 
phase will soon close and a hearing is planned for 2013.
I  shall  not  dwell  on  those  cases,  which  remain  to 
be decided on their merits, but I would like to describe 
to  the  Assembly  the  main  legal  issues  considered  in  a 
judgement  delivered  by  the  Tribunal  on  14  March  in 
its first maritime delimitation case. In its judgement of 
14 March, the Tribunal delimited the maritime boundary 
between  Bangladesh  and  Myanmar  in  the  territorial 
sea, the exclusive economic zone and on the continental 
shelf in the Bay of Bengal. One of the salient features 
of the case was that the Tribunal was asked to decide on 
the delimitation between the parties of the continental 
shelf at a distance beyond 200 miles. Under the specific 
circumstances  of  the  case,  the  Tribunal  found  that the 
parties had overlapping entitlements to the continental 
shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles,  and  it  proceeded  to 
delimit  that  area,  stating  that  the  delimitation  method 
to  be  employed  in  the  case  for  the  continental  shelf 
beyond  200  nautical  miles  should  not  differ  from  that 
within  200  nautical  miles.  It  took  slightly  more  than 
two  years  from  the  time  that  the  case  was  brought  to 
the  date  that  the  judgement  was  delivered,  which  is 
remarkably  fast  for  a  complex  delimitation  case.  The 
judgement resolved a dispute that had existed for more 
than  36  years,  and  it  was  well  received  by  the  two 
States, which can now exploit the natural resources of 
their maritime areas.
I  would  like  to  touch  on  a  final  point  relating  to 
the activity of the Tribunal. Mention should be made of 
the Tribunal’s activity in providing training in the law 
of  the  sea.  Every  year,  as  one  aspect  of  that  activity, 
the  Tribunal  welcomes  some  20  interns  from  around 
the world, generally for three months at a time. Special 
trust  funds  were  established  to  provide  financial 
support  to  applicants  from  developing  countries,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  Korea  Maritime  Institute  and 
the  China  Institute  of  International  Studies.  Along 
the  same  lines,  I  also  want  to  make  reference  to  the 
capacity-building  and  training  programme  on  dispute 
settlement under the Convention, which is supported by 
the Nippon Foundation. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
12-64245
27
