United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
57th plenary meeting
Monday, 25 November 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.57
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 36
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of  
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian  
People (A/68/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/363)
Draft resolutions (A/68/L.12, A/68/L.13, 
A/68/L.14 and A/68/L.15)
The President: As we begin consideration of this 
afternoon’s agenda item, let me reaffirm the undisputed 
consensus  concerning  the  creation  of  an  independent 
Palestinian State living side by with the State of Israel, 
within  secure  and  mutually  recognized  borders.  This 
universally accepted solution was robustly reaffirmed 
recently  in  resolution  67/19,  which  granted  Palestine 
the status of non-member observer State in the United 
Nations.
I  take  note  of  the  considerable  international 
diplomatic activity that has been taking place in order 
to restart the stalled negotiations between the two sides. 
There has been some forward movement on questions of 
substance, which I welcome. However, at the same time, 
there have been steps taken that are distinctly unhelpful 
to, and even undermine, the chances of finding the kind 
of solution called for by our Assembly. At present, the 
progression of the negotiations stands in jeopardy, and 
none  of  the  overwhelming  number  of  supporters  of 
peace and stability in the region wishes to contemplate 
the possible consequences of such a situation.
The  attention  of  the  international  community  is 
currently  being  turned  towards  a  new  paradigm  for 
improving the quality of life of human beings beyond 
2015. At the heart of the post-2015 development agenda 
is a concern for people, regardless of race, religion or 
economic status — a concern for “the dignity and worth 
of the human person”, in the words of our Charter.
It is extremely regrettable that at such a moment, 
the  people  of  Palestine  find  themselves  locked  in  a 
historic  battle  for  the  very  physical  space  that  they 
have long called their home. Such space is a necessary 
condition  to  satisfy  their  basic  aspirations  today,  to 
live in security, freedom, honour and dignity. Human 
dignity cannot be compartmentalized. The desecration 
of humanity, whether in the West Bank or in Gaza or 
in  Syria  or  elsewhere,  is  the  desecration  of  humanity 
everywhere, and that should be of concern to all people.
In  my  address  to  the  Assembly  on  14  June  (see 
A/67/PV.87),  I  informed  Member  States  that  my 
priority  for  the  sixty-eighth  session  was  “The  post-
2015 development agenda: setting the stage”. In those 
remarks, I signalled my intention to hold a number of 
thematic  debates,  including  one  on  “ensuring  stable 
and  peaceful  societies”.  That  activity  is  intended  to 
feed into the articulation of the post-2015 development 
agenda,  which  is  an  agenda  for  all  peoples,  countries 
and  regions,  including  the  Middle  East.  That  region, 
regrettably,  seems  to  be  one  where  the  dream  of 
achieving  peace  and  stability  faces 
its  keenest 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-57987 (E)
*1357987*
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
challenges,  with  causes  that  are  both  internal  and 
external. In that regard, the political and social unrest 
that has taken place in a number of countries during the 
past few years readily comes to mind.
It  is  for  that  reason  that  I  welcome  the  limited-
term  agreement  recently  announced  by  the  P5+1 
and  Iran  regarding  the  latter’s  nuclear  programme. 
The  negotiations  that  preceded  the  announcement 
of  the  agreement  had  begun  with  a  dangerous  rise 
in  suspicions  regarding  the  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme.  I  believe,  and  I  hope,  this  weekend’s 
agreement represents a step in the direction of easing 
those  tensions  and  suspicions.  Therefore,  I  trust  that 
as  we  all  look  towards  the  future,  memories  of  past 
wrongs,  whether  in  word  or  deed,  will  not  unduly 
influence perceptions of present intentions.
I  look  forward  to  the  timely  and  good-faith 
implementation  of  the  terms  of  that  instrument,  as  a 
contribution  to  strengthening  peace  and  stability  in 
the  Middle  East.  I  expect  that  such  implementation 
will  guide  us  on  the  path  from  confrontation  to 
dialogue  —  dialogue  that  is  aimed  at  strengthening 
peace,  security  and  well-being  within  and  among 
peoples. For it is through dialogue that we have a better 
understanding  of  each  other’s  fears  and  suspicions.  It 
is through dialogue that we show signs that we are as 
mindful  of  the  hurts  of  others  as  we  are  of  our  own. 
It  is  through  dialogue  that  we  foster  the  spirit  of 
trust  and  confidence  that  alone  can  sustain  and  give 
strength  to  our  decisions.  And  it  is  through  dialogue 
that we will identify the pathways toward a just, lasting 
and  mutually  satisfactory  agreement  between  the 
independent States of Israel and Palestine, and towards 
a stable and peaceful Middle East in general.
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
to  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Diallo  of  Senegal,  in  his  capacity  as 
Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, to introduce 
draft resolutions A/68/L.12, A/68/L.13, A/68/L.14 and 
A/68/L.15.
Mr. Diallo (Senegal), Chairman of the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People  (spoke  in  French):  At  the  outset,  let  me  thank 
all the delegations, and you personally, Mr. President, 
for your active participation in this morning’s special 
meeting dedicated to the International Day of Solidarity 
with the Palestinian People.
Sixty-six years ago, the General Assembly solemnly 
recognized two States, only one of which actually saw 
the light of day. It was not until 29 November 2012 that 
the General Assembly finally deigned to grant Palestine 
the status of an observer State. Our Committee strongly 
supported that decision, which we believed would help 
to revitalize the peace process. That view was borne out 
by events, which means that we are on the right track, 
as symbolically illustrated by the first vote of the State 
of  Palestine  in  the  General  Assembly,  last  Monday, 
18  November  (see  A/68/PV.53).  It  is  our  fervent  wish 
that  by  next  year  we  will  be  welcoming  President 
Mahmoud Abbas to the United Nations as leader of a 
sovereign and independent Member State.
The various parties, whose tenacious commitment 
moved  the  peace  process  forward,  deserve  enormous 
credit,  including  the  United  States  of  America,  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  Jordan,  the  European  Union, 
the Quartet and the Secretary-General. However, there 
are  worrying  signs  that  the  process  is  undergoing 
a  deep  crisis  of  confidence,  mainly  as  a  result  of  the 
acceleration  of  illegal  settlement  activities,  which 
caused the Palestinian negotiating team to withdraw in 
protest.
It is our view that the General Assembly, guarantor 
of international legitimacy, has an important role to play 
in the critical year ahead, with a view to maintaining 
the integrity of the process. The four draft resolutions 
that  I  would  now  like  to  introduce  to  the  Assembly 
under the present agenda item incorporate our thinking 
in that respect.
During the past year, our Committee has redoubled 
its  efforts  to  build  on  the  momentum  generated  by 
resolution  67/19.  We  analysed  all  the  implications  of 
the new political reality of the creation of a State under 
occupation,  which,  from  our  point  of  view,  presents 
new possibilities.
The first three draft resolutions are related to the 
work of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the  Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Department  of  Political 
Affairs,  and  the  special  information  programme  on 
the Question of Palestine of the Department of Public 
Information.  They  reaffirm  the  important  mandates 
entrusted to those entities by the General Assembly. As 
in the past, the Committee intends to make sure that the 
resources available to it are used in an optimal manner. 
The  draft  resolutions  have  been  subject  to  extensive 
2/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
consultation  with  regional  groups  and  were  approved 
by  the  Committee.  They  have  been  circulated  as 
documents A/68/L.12, A/68/L.13 and A/68/L.14, which 
are now before members. There are some new elements 
which I will clarify.
on  all  permanent-status  issues  within  a  nine-month 
time  frame.  It  also  encourages  all  States  and 
intergovernmental organizations to pursue policies that 
ensure respect for their obligations under international 
law, in particular with regard to settlements.
Over  the  years,  the  United  Nations  has  declared 
international  years  dedicated  to  raising  awareness 
about  a  variety  of  issues  of  particular  importance  to 
the international community. However, there has never 
been  a  year  dedicated  to  the  question  of  Palestine, 
which has been an item on the United Nations agenda 
for a very long time, still unresolved despite years of 
effort. Our Committee wanted to correct that historical 
imbalance,  which  is  why  draft  resolution  A/68/L.12 
proposes  that  the  Assembly  proclaim  the  year  2014 
as  the  International  Year  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People and that it request the Committee to 
organize  activities  in  cooperation  with  Governments, 
relevant  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
intergovernmental organizations and civil society.
We chose the year 2014 to focus the attention of the 
international community on the issue and afford it the 
opportunity to contribute to the peace process currently 
under  way.  In  the  spirit  of  budgetary  discipline,  and 
fully aware of the financial constraints that the United 
Nations  is  facing,  it  is  important  to  note  that  we  will 
not  being  requesting  additional  resosurces  from  the 
regular  budget.  We  will  appeal  to  all  supporters  of 
the  Palestinian  cause  to  contribute  generously  to  the 
initiative in the form of extrabudgetary funds.
just 
Bear  in  mind  that  international  years  do  not 
concern 
the  United  Nations.  Governments, 
intergovernmental  organizations  and  civil  society 
traditionally  launch  the  bulk  of  activities  relating  to 
international years, including, for example, conferences, 
forums,  youth  camps,  exhibitions,  competitions, 
briefings,  rallies,  petitions,  concerts,  film  screenings, 
workshops,  festivals  and  so  much  more.  We  will  be 
inviting  members  to  share  their  ideas  in  the  months 
ahead  in  order  to  shape  and  coordinate  this  major 
undertaking. I encourage Member States to co-sponsor 
the draft resolutions.
The  fourth  draft  resolution,  A/68/L.15,  is  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”.  It 
reaffirms  the  position  of  the  General  Assembly  with 
regard  to  the  essential  elements  of  such  a  settlement 
and  includes  references  to  the  developments  of  the 
past  year.  It  welcomes  the  resumption  of  negotiations 
I  hope  that  these  provisions  and  all  others  in  the 
draft  texts  will  meet  the  Assembly’s  strong  support. 
The  four  draft  resolutions  that  I  have  just  introduced 
outline positions, mandates and programmes of special 
importance, particularly at the present crucial juncture. 
Our  Committee  is  fully  committed  to  the  cause  of 
Israeli-Palestinian peace. A vote in favour of the four 
draft  resolutions  will  certainly  be  a  vote  in  favour  of 
peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Christopher Grima of Malta, Rapporteur 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People, to introduce the report 
of the Committee.
Mr. Grima (Malta), Rapporteur of the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian People: It is an honour for me, in my capacity 
as Rapporteur of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, to present 
to  the  General  Assembly  the  annual  report  of  the 
Committee, contained in document A/68/35. Allow me 
to summarize each section of the report.
After  the  introduction  of  the  report,  chapters  II 
and III outline the mandate entrusted to the Committee 
by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  organization  of  the 
Committee’s work during the year. Under Chapter IV, 
the report reviews the situation relating to the question 
of  Palestine,  as  monitored  by  the  Committee,  and 
contains a detailed factual account of the developments 
that have taken place in the period under review, which 
ended on 6 October 2013. The most recent events will 
be reflected in the next report.
Chapter  V  describes  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee,  including  the  Chairman’s  participation 
in  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  debates, 
statements  issued  by  the  Committee  and  its  Bureau, 
and  the  continued  dialogue  between  the  Committee 
and  members  of 
intergovernmental  organizations. 
This  chapter  also  reports  on  the  various  international 
meetings and conferences organized by the Committee, 
as well as other mandated activities carried out by the 
Division for Palestinian Rights.
13-57987
3/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
The 
last  chapter  of 
Chapter VI provides an overview of the work done 
over the year by the Department of Public Information 
pursuant to resolution 67/22 of 30 November 2012.
the  report  contains 
the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  Committee, 
in  which  the  Committee  reiterates  its  view  that  the 
admission  of  Palestine  as  a  non-member  observer 
State  by  the  General  Assembly  (see  resolution  67/19) 
constituted  an  important  step  towards  the  realization 
of  the  two-State  solution.  That  gave  a  new  urgency 
to the resumption of the peace process and vested the 
State  of  Palestine  with  important  additional  rights  to 
join international legal frameworks and to contribute to 
the work of the United Nations system as a whole. The 
Committee  calls  on  all  Member  States  to  extend  full 
diplomatic recognition to the State of Palestine and on 
the Security Council to revisit the issue of Palestine’s 
full membership.
the  Committee  calls  for 
Welcoming  the  resumption  of  Israeli-Palestinian 
direct  negotiations, 
the 
sustained engagement and support of the international 
community,  including  a  revitalized  Quartet,  which  is 
vital to ensure that the parties negotiate in good faith, 
live  up  to  their  commitments  and  refrain  from  steps 
that  jeopardize  negotiations.  The  current  diplomatic 
initiative may represent the final window of opportunity 
to  achieve  a  negotiated  two-State  solution.    In  that 
regard,  the  Committee  expresses  its  concern  about 
Israel’s  settlement  activity,  which  threatens  to  derail 
negotiations.  The  Committee  welcomes  the  recently 
adopted European Union (EU) guidelines that prohibit 
funding by EU institutions for Israeli entities connected 
with  the  settlements  as  a  first  step  towards  fulfilling 
obligations under international law and calls for further 
international action against settlements.
The  Committee  condemns  all  attacks  against 
civilians  and  calls  on  the  parties  to  adhere  to  the 
terms  of  the  Gaza  ceasefire  agreement.  It  calls  upon 
the Security Council and the High Contracting Parties 
to  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  to  act  urgently  to 
uphold  international  humanitarian  law  and  guarantee 
the protection of civilians.
The  Committee  also  stresses  the  importance  of 
Palestinian  unity  under  the  legitimate  leadership  of 
President Mahmoud Abbas to secure a comprehensive 
peace. It expresses its concern that the accomplishments 
made  towards  Palestinian  State-building  and  reform 
are  now  endangered,  owing  to  the  chronic  financial 
crisis,  and  calls  upon  donors  to  meet  their  prior 
commitments  and  to  provide  additional  aid  to  avert 
further deterioration.
The  Committee  suggests  that  its  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  in  2014  be 
focused  on  widening  international  support  for  the 
achievement of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian 
people  and  the  creation  of  a  favourable  atmosphere 
for  the  success  of  the  resumed  permanent-status 
negotiations.
The  Committee  will  mobilize 
increased 
international  scrutiny  of  the  developments  on  the 
ground,  in  particular  settlement  activities,  and  will 
emphasize  responsibility  and  promote  action  by  the 
international  community  to  put  an  end  to  all  illegal 
Israeli policies and practices in the occupied Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  The  Committee 
will  also  examine  the  legal  ramifications  of  the  new 
international  status  of  the  State  of  Palestine  and  will 
continue to call attention to the plight of the Palestinian 
political prisoners in Israeli jails and urge a resolution 
of their plight.
The  Committee  will  continue 
to  encourage 
civil  society  partners  to  work  with  their  national 
Governments,  parliamentarians  and  other  institutions 
with a view to gaining their full support for the work 
of  the  United  Nations  on  the  question  of  Palestine.  It 
expresses the hope that the reactivated working group 
will  help  to  build  stronger  partnerships  with  civil 
society. It also encourages its members and observers to 
mobilize their respective civil societies at the national 
level,  in  particular  young  people,  and  to  establish 
solidarity committees with the State of Palestine.
The  Committee  will  reach  out  to  all  regional 
groups at the United Nations with a view to expanding 
its membership. It will actively work to organize more 
thematic debates on the question of Palestine in various 
United Nations forums. The Committee calls upon the 
General Assembly to proclaim an international year of 
solidarity with the Palestinian people.
requests 
the  Division 
The  Committee 
for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat  to  continue  its 
substantive  and  secretariat  support,  the  programme 
of  research,  monitoring  and  publications  and  other 
informational activities in support of the Committee’s 
communication  strategy.  The  Committee  encourages 
voluntary  contributions  from  members  and  observers 
in line with their capacity to put the programme on a 
solid financial footing.
4/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
Finally, the Committee reiterates its view that the 
special  information  programme  on  the  Question  of 
Palestine of the Department of Public Information has 
made an important contribution to informing the media 
and the public of the relevant issues, and requests the 
continuation of the programme.
In closing, I would like to express the hope that the 
report  that  I  have  just  presented  will  be  of  assistance 
to  the  General  Assembly  in  its  deliberations  on  the 
question of Palestine.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Permanent Observer of the observer State of Palestine.
Mr. Mansour (Palestine): I am honoured to address 
the General Assembly at this important debate on behalf 
of  the  State  of  Palestine.  On  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  I  reaffirm  the 
gratitude of the Palestinian people and Government for 
the compelling expressions of solidarity received from 
all  around  the  world,  including  those  conveyed  today 
at this commemorative meeting, with the participation 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People.
We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Chair  of 
the  Committee,  Ambassador  Diallo  of  Senegal,  for 
presiding over this special meeting and for his statement 
and introduction of the draft resolutions on the question 
of Palestine today. We also express our gratitude to the 
Rapporteur  of  the  Committee,  Ambassador  Grima  of 
Malta,  for  having  introduced  the  Committee’s  report 
(A/68/35)  and  to  the  other  members  of  the  Bureau, 
including  the  Ambassadors  of  Afghanistan,  Cuba, 
Indonesia,  Namibia  and  Nicaragua,  and  all  members 
and  observers  of  the  Committee  for  their  principled 
support of the just cause of Palestine. I also commend 
the  efforts  of  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  and 
the special information programme on Palestine of the 
Department of Public Information.
I  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
report  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine (A/68/363) and for his tireless efforts. I would 
like to express our appreciation for the support of the 
United  Nations  system  for  the  noble  goal  of  peace 
and  for  the  efforts  of  Personal  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  Robert  Serry,  of  the  Office  of  the 
United  Nations  Special  Coordinator  for  the  Middle 
East Peace Process, and of the Department of Political 
Affairs and all United Nations agencies on the ground 
assisting  the  Palestinian  people,  including,  inter  alia, 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East, the United Nations 
Development  Programme,  UNICEF,  the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs,  the  World 
Food  Programme,  UN-Women,  the  United  Nations 
Human  Settlements  Programme,  the  United  Nations 
Population Fund and the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Here,  we  also  express  our  appreciation  for  the 
commitment  of  the  first  United  Nations  Development 
Assistance Framework for the State of Palestine, aimed 
at  enhancing  development  support  and  assistance  to 
the  Palestinian  people  and  strengthening  institutional 
capacity in line with national priorities. Undoubtedly, 
the international political, humanitarian, financial and 
moral  support  extended  over  the  decades  has  helped 
sustain the Palestinian people and bolster their resilience 
as they have confronted innumerable hardships, in exile 
and  under  occupation,  while  awaiting  the  realization 
of  their  inalienable  rights,  justice  and  peace.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  support,  while  again  calling  on  the 
international community to exert all possible efforts, in 
line with relevant resolutions, the Charter of the United 
Nations and international law, to redress the injustice 
the Palestinian people have endured for far too long.
Our  appeals  to  the  international  community  are 
directly  linked  to  the  permanent  responsibility  of  the 
United Nations towards the question of Palestine until 
it is resolved in all aspects. That responsibility is being 
upheld by the international community in many ways. 
However,  political  progress  remains  elusive,  due  to 
Israel’s  flagrant  contempt  for  the  resolutions  and  the 
authority  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  the  absence 
of  political  will  characterized  by  the  paralysis  of  the 
Security  Council,  which  has  precluded  accountability 
by  Israel,  the  implementation  of  relevant  resolutions, 
and the advancement of a just peace.
The  General  Assembly,  however,  continues  to  act 
to  uphold  its  responsibilities.  During  the  last  debate 
on  the  question  of  Palestine,  on  29  November  2012, 
the  Assembly  undertook  the  historic,  courageous 
decision  to  accord  to  Palestine  non-member  observer 
State  status  in  the  United  Nations.  With  the  adoption 
of resolution 67/19 — which was fully consistent with 
the right to self-determination enshrined in the Charter 
and  in  relevant  resolutions,  from  resolutions  181  (II), 
194  (III),  and  Security  Council  resolution  242  (1967) 
to the present day — another milestone was set in the 
long  march  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  freedom  and 
13-57987
5/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
the realization of their inalienable rights and legitimate 
national aspirations.
Resolution  67/19  constitutes  an  important  step 
towards ensuring the State of Palestine’s rightful place 
among  the  community  of  nations,  as  the  application 
submitted  in  2011  by  President  Abbas  for  full  United 
Nations  membership  regrettably  remains  pending 
before  the  Security  Council.  We  are  certain  that  the 
Assembly’s  overwhelming  support  for  this  decision 
will  be  considered  on  the  right  side  of  history  and 
deemed  an  essential  step  towards  rectifying  this 
injustice  and  fulfilling  the  international  covenant  in 
this  regard,  65  years  after  the  adoption  of  resolution 
181 (II) partitioning Mandate Palestine and the onset of 
Al-Nakba of the Palestinian people.
We  are  proud  that  the  support  for  resolution 
67/19  came  from  all  corners  of  the  globe,  comprising 
countries  from  every  major  political  and  regional 
group.  That  initiative  was  rightly  viewed  as  a  crucial 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  support  for,  and  to  salvage, 
the two-State solution at a time when its viability and 
popular  conviction  in  it  were  being  seriously  eroded 
by the illegal policies of Israel, the occupying Power, 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  the  territory  constituting  the  State  of 
Palestine. It was also an opportunity to reaffirm support 
for the Palestinian people’s right to self-determination, 
freedom from occupation and the independence of their 
State, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
In fact, the global position in support of the two-
State solution — based on the parameters of, inter alia, 
the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  Jerusalem  as  the  shared 
capital of the two States, and a just, agreed solution for 
the  Palestinian  refugees,  in  accordance  with  relevant 
United Nations resolutions, the Madrid principles, the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the Quartet road map — is the 
position to which the Palestinian people and leadership 
have been committed for at least a quarter of a century, 
since  the  formal  acceptance  of  the  two-State  solution 
with the adoption of the Declaration of Independence 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  in  1988.  That  significant 
compromise  —  to  establish  our  State  on  only  22  per 
cent of our historic homeland for the sake of restoring 
our  rights,  achieving  our  freedom  and  ending  the 
conflict  —  is  among  the  boldest  reflections  of  the 
Palestinian commitment to peace and coexistence with 
Israel, despite the great injustice endured by our people. 
That includes the Palestine refugees, who number over 
five  million  people  and  continue  to  suffer  the  untold 
hardships  of  dispossession  and  exile,  including  those 
resulting from the many crises that have wracked the 
region,  the  most  recent  being  the  tragic  conflict  in 
Syria, which has gravely affected the Palestine refugee 
community.
The State of Palestine is upholding that commitment, 
as reflected in the serious engagement in all stages of 
the  peace  process  from  the  Madrid  Conference  to  its 
legitimate  actions  at  the  United  Nations  to  safeguard 
and  promote  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  We 
continue to act responsibly, respecting international law 
and United Nations resolutions, fully cognizant of the 
high risks entailed in a failure to seize the remaining 
opportunity for realizing the two-State solution, a point 
starkly  underscored  by  the  Under-Secretary-General 
for Political Affairs in his recent briefing to the Security 
Council (see S/PV.7063).
We  have  thus  engaged  in  over  20  rounds  of  talks 
with  Israel  in  the  context  of  the  direct  talks  resumed 
on  29  July  2013,  on  the  initiative  of  United  States 
Secretary  of  State  Kerry  and  with  the  vital  support 
of the League of Arab States, as well as the European 
Union, the Russian Federation and the United Nations as 
members of the Quartet, and all concerned States from 
around  the  world.  During  the  negotiations,  Palestine 
has  maintained  focus  on  the  objectives  of  peace  and 
coexistence, determined to overcome the obstacles that 
have repeatedly undermined the process.
Unfortunately,  despite  the  genuine  efforts  we  are 
exerting and despite the international community’s full 
support,  real  progress  remains  elusive  and  hopes  are 
diminishing  as  the  challenges  on  the  ground  persist. 
Provocative Israeli actions, distractions and declarations 
undermine  the  spirit  and  aim  of  the  negotiations  to 
justly  resolve  all  final-status  issues  —  Jerusalem, 
the  Palestinian  refugees,  settlements,  borders,  water, 
security and prisoners. That is reflected the most in the 
high tensions and mistrust provoked by Israel’s recent 
threats to construct thousands more settlement units, in 
grave breach of international law, in blatant disregard 
for  global  calls  to  halt  them,  and  in  contradiction  of 
the basis for resumed negotiations and the goals of the 
peace process.
The  reality  on  the  ground  in  occupied  Palestine 
is  critical.  Illegal  and  destructive  Israeli  actions,  be 
they  by  the  Government,  its  occupying  forces  or  its 
extremist settlers, are sowing deep doubts about Israel’s 
true  intentions  in  the  negotiations.  Those  actions  are 
reinforcing the notion that it is only using this period 
6/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
to  further  entrench  its  illegal  settlement  enterprise 
and  de  facto  annexation  of  Palestinian  land  and  to 
continue  its  subjugation  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
while  simultaneously  attempting  to  ease  international 
pressure in that regard.
included, 
inter  alia, 
Over  the  past  year,  Israel  has  intensified  its 
aggression,  colonization  and  collective  punishment 
against  the  Palestinian  people,  in  flagrant  breach 
of  international  law,  including  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention, the human rights covenants, and resolutions 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council,  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and UNESCO and other bodies, in disrespect 
of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, and in arrogant disregard of international calls 
for compliance.
This  has 
the  relentless 
construction  of  settlements  and  the  wall,  particularly 
in and around occupied East Jerusalem, Bethlehem and 
the  Jordan  Valley.  Hundreds  of  dunums  of  land  have 
been  confiscated,  and  Palestinian  civilians  have  been 
forcibly displaced; that has especially affected Bedouin 
families. Hundreds of homes and properties have been 
demolished, heavily targeting Palestinian Jerusalemites 
and Area C. There have been violent military raids by 
the  occupying  forces,  causing  loss  of  life,  injury  and 
property  destruction.  Excessive  force  has  been  used 
against  peaceful  civilian  protesters,  and  there  have 
been  daily  arrests  and  detention  of  civilians.  More 
than 4,000 were arrested in the reporting period alone, 
as  indicated  by  the  Secretary-General.  Nearly  5,000 
Palestinians  endure  continued  imprisonment  under 
horrific  conditions  and  abuse,  including  hundreds 
of  children  and  prisoners  stricken  with  cancer  and 
prisoners on hunger strike, whose lives are endangered.
A  myriad  of  measures  obstruct  the  movement  of 
persons and goods, foremost among which is the illegal 
blockade of the Gaza Strip. Religious sensitivities are 
aggravated, risking the outbreak of religious conflict, 
with  incessant  provocations  by  Israeli  extremists 
against  holy  sites,  especially  at  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif, 
the detention of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, and the 
harassment of worshippers, including during Christian 
Easter  observances  and  the  Muslim  holy  month  of 
Ramadan.
Extremist  Israeli  settlers  have  continued  their 
criminal  rampages,  terrorizing  Palestinian  civilians, 
destroying farmlands and thousands of trees, affecting 
the  livelihoods  of  thousands  of  families.  They  have 
vandalized  churches  and  mosques  and  threatened 
the  sanctity  of  Al-Aqsa  Mosque.  The  settlers  act 
with  support,  protection  and  incitement  from  Israeli 
officials,  who  persist  in  encouraging  colonization  of 
the Palestinian land and in their rejection of the two-
State solution and the rights, and even existence, of the 
Palestinian people.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  it 
is condemnable that the inhumane Israeli blockade has 
entered its seventh year, in collective punishment of the 
entire Palestinian civilian population there and in grave 
breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention. The blockade 
remains  the  cause  of  vast  humanitarian  suffering, 
exacerbating  poverty  and  other  socioeconomic  ills 
and despair. It continues to impede the reconstruction 
of  thousands  of  homes  and  of  destroyed  civilian 
infrastructure  and  to  prevent  economic  recovery,  as 
imports remain restricted and exports nearly prohibited. 
A water and energy crisis also persists in Gaza. Ninety 
per cent of the water is unfit for human consumption, 
and power outages of up to 16 hours a day are severely 
impairing the function of hospitals, schools, water and 
sanitation networks, businesses and home life.
We  reiterate  our  calls  for  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
blockade,  the  illegal  colonization  of  our  land,  the 
collective  punishment  of  our  people  and  the  violation 
of  their  human  rights,  including  of  the  thousands  of 
Palestinians who remain imprisoned by the occupying 
Power  and  who  must  be  released.  Such  actions 
constitute  systematic  violations  of  human  rights  law 
and of are grave breaches of international humanitarian 
law, under which our people are entitled to protection. 
They are contrary to the good faith required to lead the 
negotiations to the achievement of peace.
We reiterate that the two-State solution and Israel’s 
settlement  campaign  are  completely  irreconcilable 
and  that  such  illegal  measures  cannot  be  justified 
under  any  pretext.  The  international  consensus  is 
clear — settlement activities are illegal, constitute the 
major obstacle to peace and must be halted. Speaking of 
peace while at the same time engaging in its destruction 
makes  a  mockery  of  the  international  community’s 
support  for  the  two-State  solution  and  sabotages  all 
efforts  in  that  regard,  as  does  claiming  readiness  to 
negotiate  without  conditions  while  actually  imposing 
conditions on the ground in the form of illegal facts that 
entrench the occupation and obstruct peace.
We  are  at  a  critical  juncture  in  the  long,  historic 
search  for  peace,  to  which  the  State  of  Palestine  is 
13-57987
7/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
fully  committed,  as  reflected  in  our  adherence  to  the 
resumed negotiations and the parameters of the peace 
process  upon  which  international  consensus  prevails. 
The  decisions  made  now  will  determine  whether  the 
solution of two States — the State of Palestine and State 
of Israel living side by side in peace and security based 
on the pre-1967 borders — will be achieved, or whether 
that solution will be brought to an end by Israel’s illegal 
policies.
Our  collective  effort,  no  matter  how  well 
intentioned, will fail, with far-reaching consequences, 
if Israel persists with the illegal policies of its 46-year 
military  occupation  and  continues  to  undermine  the 
foundations  of  a  peaceful  solution.  That  will  trigger 
the  onset  of  alternative  efforts,  political,  legal  and 
popular, to end the injustice and attain the rights of the 
Palestinian  people  —  aspirations  that  they  will  never 
relinquish.
immediately 
redressed. 
Israel  must 
In  order  to  sustain  meaningful  negotiations  and 
overcome the political impasse towards the conclusion 
of  a  peace  agreement,  the  reality  on  the  ground  must 
be 
tangibly 
demonstrate,  in  word  and  in  deed,  its  willingness  to 
end its occupation and make peace. The mentality and 
policies of occupation, in all manifestations, must end. 
That is imperative to stem the decline of the situation, 
shore  up  popular  belief  in  the  possibility  for  peace, 
build  trust  between  the  parties  and  salvage  this  final 
chance for the two-State solution.
In  the  absence  of  a  change  in  Israel’s  behaviour, 
we  must  continue  to  call  for  international  action  to 
compel  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  respect  all  of 
its  legal  obligations.  The  message  must  be  conveyed 
that  Israel  must  cease  all  illegal  policies  and  that  the 
price of occupation is steep, while much is to be gained 
from peace. Violations must be met with measures for 
accountability. Failure to do so would be a disservice 
to  the  cause  of  peace,  endangering  the  future  of  the 
Palestinian and Israeli peoples and prospects for peace 
and security in the Middle East and beyond.
The time is now for meaningful action to promote a 
just and lasting solution that will ensure the attainment 
of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and 
the  establishment  of  peace  between  Palestine  and 
Israel. That constitutes the cornerstone of Arab-Israeli 
peace, as set out in the Arab Peace Initiative, a historic 
initiative for comprehensive regional peace.
We are at a crossroads. We reiterate our appeal to 
all States, intergovernmental organizations, the United 
Nations system as a whole and civil society to extend 
the  support  necessary  to  realize  Palestinian-Israeli 
peace, which is all the more urgent in the context of the 
dramatic developments in our region.
For its part, the State of Palestine will continue to 
act responsibly, upholding its commitment to peace and 
cooperating with all international efforts in this regard, 
on  the  basis  of  its  belief  in  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
international resolve to secure a just solution. Internally, 
we will continue to develop our national institutions to 
strengthen  our  State’s  foundations,  serve  our  people 
and ease their hardships while still under occupation. 
We  are  grateful  for  the  international  support  of  those 
efforts,  the  progress  of  which  is  well  documented  by 
the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for the Coordination of 
the International Assistance to Palestinians, the World 
Bank  and  the  United  Nations,  despite  the  constraints 
and  setbacks  due  to  Israel’s  unlawful  actions  and  the 
ongoing  financial  crisis.  We  will  also  continue  to 
strive for reconciliation, which is so vital for achieving 
Palestinian national aspirations.
The Palestinian leadership is determined to bring 
an  end  to  the  tragedy  endured  by  our  people.  We  are 
determined to peacefully achieve the independence of 
the State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
on  the  basis  of  the  pre-1967  borders,  to  fulfil  the 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  including  Palestinian 
refugees, and to establish peace and security between 
Palestine and Israel. We are grateful for the principled 
support of all concerned States and peoples worldwide 
and  urge  that  no  effort  be  spared  to  achieve  long-
overdue freedom, justice and dignity for the Palestinian 
people.  In  that  regard,  we  appeal  for  support  for  the 
International  Year  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People  in  2014  as  an  important  contribution  towards 
fostering the necessary momentum and political will in 
the year ahead to achieve the rights of our people and 
make Palestinian-Israeli peace a reality.
Mr. Prosor (Israel): John Fitzgerald Kennedy said 
that the great enemy of the truth is very often not the lie 
but the myth — persistent, persuasive and unrealistic. 
This  is  the  third  year  that  I  am  standing  before  the 
Assembly to make a statement on this agenda item, and 
once again I experience a sense of déjà vu as I listen to 
a  distortion  of  history.  The  greatest  legends  of  Greek 
mythology cannot rival the fables and fabrications that 
have come to be associated with this debate.
8/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
This  debate  may  take  place  only  once  a  year,  but 
anti-Israel bias pervades the United Nations system all 
year  round.  In  2012,  the  Assembly  found  the  time  to 
adopt 22 resolutions condemning Israel, compared with 
only four that single out other nations. The worst human 
rights  abusers  receive  a  fraction  of  the  condemnation 
that  Israel  —  the  only  democracy  in  the  Middle 
East  —  receives.  Those  irresponsible  actions  have 
irreversible consequences. The States that rubberstamp 
the  anti-Israel  resolutions  every  year  have  given  the 
Palestinians a false sense of reality and fed their culture 
of victimhood.
It  has  only  been  one  year  since  the  Assembly 
voted  to  change  the  Palestinian  delegation’s  status  at 
the  United  Nations.  To  all  those  who  voted  in  favour 
of  the  resolution  (resolution  67/19)  last  November,  I 
ask the following. What exactly has changed? Did the 
resolution  give  the  Palestinian  Authority  control  over 
Gaza? Not in the least. Gaza comprises 40 per cent of 
the territory that President Abbas claims to represent, 
but he has not set foot in the area in six years. It seems 
to me that the Palestinian Authority has been asserting 
more control over some United Nations bodies than it 
does over the Gaza Strip. Since 2007, Gaza has been in 
the hands of Hamas, a terrorist organization that rains 
missiles on Israel’s civilians.
Did  the  resolution  adopted  last  year  motivate  the 
Palestinian Authority to finally hold elections? Not at 
all.  Perhaps  someone  in  the  Assembly  should  remind 
the  Palestinian  Authority  that  its  mandate  expired  in 
2009 and that one election does not mean you can rule 
forever. At the same time, I have to wonder where all 
the countries that claim to stand for democratic values 
are. They are quick to cast judgment on Israel, but fall 
strangely silent when the Palestinians do not cast votes.
Did  the  resolution  adopted  last  year  inspire  the 
Palestinian Authority to prepare their people for peace? 
Not  in  the  least.  Rather  than  teaching  their  children 
tolerance  and  mutual  recognition,  the  Palestinian 
leadership continues to foster a culture of incitement. 
Palestinian  Media  Watch  will  soon  release  a  report 
documenting  hundreds  of  examples  of  Palestinian 
incitement  since  the  peace  talks  began.  One  such 
example  is  the  football  teams  named  in  honour  of 
terrorists responsible for some of the deadliest attacks 
against Israelis. Instead of teaching kids to score goals, 
the Palestinian leadership’s goal is to glorify murderers.
Israel recently made the difficult decision to release 
26  convicted  murderers  as  part  of  its  commitment 
to  advancing  the  peace  talks.  Shortly  after,  the 
Palestinian  Authority  (PA)  announced  that  each  of 
those  26  terrorists  would  be  rewarded  with  $50,000, 
and  some  will  earn  as  much  as  Palestinian  ministers. 
The  motto  of  the  PA’s  pension  plan  seems  to  be  “the 
more you slay, the more we pay”.
As  the  PA  sings  the  praises  of  murderers,  the 
international  community  tunes  out  and  mysteriously 
loses  its  voice.  I  wonder  how  taxpayers  in  London  or 
Luxemburg  would  feel  knowing  that  their  tax  dollars 
were  being  used  to  reward  convicted  murderers?  The 
Palestinian  leadership  has  yet  to  learn  an  important 
lesson.  You  cannot  abuse  others  and  call  yourself  the 
abused. You cannot claim your history is being denied 
while denying the history of the Jewish nation.
In Gaza, Hamas is poisoning the hearts and minds 
of  the  next  generation.  They  recently  published  a 
textbook  for  50,000  high-school  students  in  which 
page after page denies Judaism’s historical connection 
to the land of Israel and describes Zionism as racism. 
Textbooks  should  be  for  education,  but  Hamas  uses 
them for provocation, indoctrination and escalation.
Those  are  just  the  most  recent  examples  of  the 
incitement targeting the next generation. Terrorism does 
not begin with an attack on a bus or in a pizza parlour. 
It begins in classrooms, mosques and day camps where 
Palestinian children are being taught prejudice instead 
of  peace,  terror  instead  of  tolerance,  and  martyrdom 
instead of mutual understanding.
That  incitement  is  having  deadly  consequences. 
The number of Palestinian terror attacks against Israel 
doubled from 2011 to 2012. Thus far in 2013, there have 
been  1,163  terror  attacks  against  Israelis  and  dozens 
of attempted kidnappings. Just over a week ago, Eden 
Atias, a 19-year-old Israeli soldier, was stabbed to death 
while sleeping on a passenger bus. Eden was the latest 
victim of the escalating terror attacks against Israelis. 
In September, 20-year-old Tomer Hazan was murdered, 
two soldiers were injured in an attack near Nablus and 
a 9-year-old girl was stabbed while playing in her front 
yard. In October, four Israeli civilians were injured in a 
stabbing attack, and Sraya Ofer was brutally beaten to 
death outside his home in the Jordan Rift Valley.
All  those  who  claim  to  be  working  to  advance 
peace  must  remind  the  Palestinians  that  there  are  no 
shortcuts.  Peace  is  not  achieved  by  changing  a  name 
plate  at  the  United  Nations,  by  unilateral  actions  or 
by  adopting  a  string  of  anti-Israeli  resolutions,  and  it 
13-57987
9/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
will not be achieved in Manhattan’s Midtown East, but 
rather  in  the  Middle  East.  So  long  as  the  Palestinian 
leadership chooses symbolism over pragmatism, it will 
be harder to achieve peace.
In a few days, on 29 November, the United Nations 
will  observe  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People. Let me take a moment to remind 
the  Assembly  of  what  really  occurred  on  that  day  in 
history. On 29 November 1947, the General Assembly 
adopted  resolution  181  (II),  which  came  to  be  known 
as the partition plan. That resolution provided for the 
establishment of a Jewish State and an Arab State. The 
Jews accepted huge compromises and gave up on dreams 
the  Jewish  people  had  harboured  for  generations.  But 
they  welcomed  the  plan  and  joyously  declared  a  new 
State in their ancient homeland. Chaim Weizmann, who 
later  became  the  first  President  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
proclaimed,
“It is the profound desire of our people to establish 
relations of harmony and mutual respect with their 
Arab  fellow  citizens  [and]  with  the  neighbouring 
Arab States”.
Rather than accept the partition plan, five surrounding 
Arab nations declared war on the newborn Jewish State. 
Their intentions were made clear by Azzam Pasha, the 
Secretary-General  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  who 
said,
“[I]t will be a war of elimination and it will be a 
dangerous  massacre  which  history  will  record 
similarly to the Mongol massacre or the wars of the 
Crusades.”
The  Arabs  not  only  rejected  the  United  Nations 
offer  of  a  Palestinian  State,  they  then  declared  war 
against  the  Jewish  State.  Since  losing  that  war,  they 
have perpetuated the Palestinian refugee problem and 
still have the audacity to demand solidarity. Broadway 
may be down the street in New York, but the real theatre 
is  here  at  the  United  Nations.  In  this  Hall,  the  Arab 
nations  shine  a  spotlight  on  the  Palestinian  refugees, 
but back home in the Middle East they leave them in the 
dark. Since 1948, the Arab States have refused to accept 
the  Palestinian  refugees  into  their  societies,  confined 
them to refugee camps and passed discriminatory laws.
Resolution 181 (II) speaks of the creation of a “Jewish 
State” no fewer than 25 times. And yet today, 66 years 
later,  has  anyone  heard  Palestinian  leaders  utter  the 
term “Jewish State”? Of course not. Palestinian leaders 
call for an independent Palestinian State, but they insist 
that the Palestinian people return to the Jewish State. 
That is a euphemism for the destruction of the State of 
Israel and the single greatest hurdle to achieving peace. 
Many  in  this  Hall  are  convinced  that  the  root  of  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  is  the  settlements.  In  fact, 
from  the  time  that  Israel  gained  its  independence  in 
1948, until 1967, the West Bank was in Jordanian hands 
and  Gaza  in  Egyptian  hands.  Throughout  that  time 
there was not a single settlement, yet the Palestinians 
still  sought  our  destruction.  Today,  just  2  per  cent  of 
the  Israeli  population  lives  in  settlements,  but  they 
are blamed for 100 per cent of the problems. The math 
simply does not add up.
Israel is the ancient homeland of the Jewish people. 
It  is  the  birthplace  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob;  the 
land  where  Moses  and  Joshua  led  the  Jewish  people 
and  King  Solomon  built  the  Jewish  Temple.  Israel  is 
the  place  where  the  Bible  tells  us  about  David,  who 
was made king and laid the cornerstone for his palace 
in Jerusalem, the eternal capital of the Jewish people. 
That was King David from Judea, not King David from 
the  West  Bank,  and  certainly  not  King  David  from 
the  so-called  occupied  territories.  After  all,  a  person 
cannot  occupy  his  own  home.  And  for  thousands  of 
years,  Jerusalem  served  as  the  capital  of  the  Jewish 
people. Three thousand years ago, my ancestors walked 
the same streets that my children walk, spoke the same 
language  that  I  speak  and  prayed  at  the  very  same 
Temple Mount where millions of Jews pray every day.
Yet all of those historical facts are brushed aside. 
Instead, all we hear in the Assembly are rants, rhetoric 
and biased resolutions. It does not take a fortune teller 
to predict the language in those resolutions. After all, 
the same text is copied and pasted each year, much of it 
dating back five decades. Yet country after country sees 
no problem in standing up and parroting propaganda. I 
am reminded of words that are sometimes ascribed to 
President John F. Kennedy, to the effect that however 
big  the  propaganda  may  be,  if  it  is  repeated  often 
enough the masses will regard it as the truth.
The  draft  resolutions  being  voted  on 
today 
(A/68/L.12,  A/68/L.13,  A/68/L.14  and  A/68/L.15) 
have  no  relationship  to  the  facts  on  the  ground.  Just 
last week the United Nations adopted nine resolutions 
condemning  Israel.  One  of  them  condemned  Israel’s 
treatment  of  the  Syrian  people.  Israel’s  treatment 
of  the  Syrian  people?  It  is  inconceivable  that  while 
Israeli hospitals are treating Syrians who have escaped 
Al-Assad’s massacre, the United Nations is denouncing 
10/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
Israel’s treatment of Syrians. As if that were not enough, 
the General Assembly will soon vote on another draft 
resolution  calling  on  Israel  to  hand  over  the  Golan 
Heights and its residents to Syria. It is nothing short of 
absurd for the United Nations to demand that even more 
civilians be subject to Al-Assad’s brutality.
At the United Nations, there are countless resolutions 
that delegitimize and demonize Israel. Why do I never 
hear anyone speak about all the good work that Israel 
is  doing  for  the  Palestinians?  While  the  Palestinians 
are  busy  condemning  Israel  at  the  United  Nations, 
Israel is busy supporting the Palestinian economy and 
developing its infrastructure. Today, more than 100,000 
Palestinians earn their living in Israel, making up more 
than 10 per cent of Palestinian gross domestic product. 
Israel  is  also  building  four  electrical  substations  and 
providing  more  than  1,400  million  gallons  of  clean 
water annually. Palestinians receive world-class health-
care services in hospitals throughout the country. In the 
first half of 2013 alone, more than 94,000 Palestinians 
received treatment in Israeli hospitals. And we continue 
to give, even as our goodwill is knowingly exploited. 
While  the  Israel  Defense  Forces  uncover  one  terror 
tunnel  after  another,  the  flow  of  consumer  goods 
continues into Gaza uninterrupted. Each day, the State 
of  Israel  delivers  400  truckloads  to  the  Palestinian 
people via the Keren Shalom terminal.
In  a  time  of  universal  deceit,  telling  the  truth 
is  a  revolutionary  act  —  a  remark  that  has  been 
attributed to George Orwell. The truth is that Israel is 
not  just  speaking  about  peace;  it  is  demonstrating  its 
commitment every single day. Peace is a central value 
of Israel’s society, and it has been the goal of the Israeli 
people  and  every  Israeli  leader  since  the  State  was 
re-established,  65  years  ago.  We  will  not  be  deterred 
from that goal. Israel has always extended its hand for 
peace,  and  it  will  continue  to  do  so  for  our  children 
and grandchildren. When we faced an Arab leader who 
wanted peace, we made peace. That was the case with 
Egypt and with Jordan. We are committed to negotiating 
with our Palestinian neighbours so that our two peoples 
can live side by side in peace, dignity and freedom.
I  call  on  my  colleagues  in  this  Hall  not  to  be 
distracted by unilateral efforts and biased resolutions. 
Remind the Palestinians to take responsibility and that 
the  only  way  to  reach  a  comprehensive  peace  deal  is 
through  hard  work  and  direct  negotiations.  Working 
together, we in this Hall can all make history by making 
peace. Working together, we can author a better future, 
one  where  our  people  can  live  in  security,  free  from 
violence, and where the horizon is ripe with opportunity 
and our children can live side by side in peace.
the  Palestinian  people.  On 
this  day, 
This 
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  today 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  on 
agenda item 36, entitled “Question of Palestine”.
important  debate  coincides  with 
the 
commemoration of the International Day of Solidarity 
with 
the 
international  community  reaffirms  its  continued  and 
unwavering support for, and solidarity with, the long-
suffering people of Palestine in their national struggle 
to achieve the independence of their State, peace and 
justice.  NAM  pays  tribute  to  the  resilience  of  the 
Palestinian  people  in  their  pursuit  of  their  legitimate 
national aspirations, which they have for too long been 
unjustly denied.
Following  the  historic  adoption  by  the  General 
Assembly  of  resolution  67/19,  of  29  November  2012, 
which  accorded  to  Palestine  non-member  observer 
State status in the United Nations, Israel, the occupying 
Power,  has  blatantly  intensified  its  illegal  settlement 
activities,  along  with  many  other  unlawful  policies 
and  practices  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem.  The  situation  continues  to 
be  extremely  severe  in  the  Jordan  Valley  —  where 
thousands  of  Palestinians, 
including  hundreds  of 
Bedouin  families,  have  been  displaced  and  thousands 
more are at risk of forced displacement due to Israel’s 
illegal colonization — as well as in and around occupied 
East Jerusalem, where the occupying Power continues 
to  pursue  measures  aimed  at  the  quiet  transfer  or 
depopulation of the indigenous Palestinian inhabitants 
and  at  ensuring  a  Jewish  majority  in  the  city.  In  that 
regard,  NAM  calls  for  a  complete  end  to  all  Israeli 
settlement  activities,  the  construction  of  the  wall, 
home  demolitions,  residency  revocations,  excavation, 
including near Al-Haram Al-Sharif, and the closure of 
Palestinian institutions in the city.
We  condemn  Israel’s  detention  and  imprisonment 
of  thousands  of  Palestinians,  including  women  and 
children,  who  are  subjected  to  deplorable  conditions 
of  captivity  and  all  forms  of  ill  treatment.  We  also 
condemn the ongoing terror, violence and provocations 
by  extremist 
Israeli  settlers  against  Palestinian 
civilians  and  property,  including  homes,  agricultural 
lands and Muslim and Christian holy sites. We caution 
that  such  actions  are  fuelling  religious  sensitivities, 
13-57987
11/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
which risk further destabilization and must be brought 
to  an  immediate  end  by  the  occupying  Power,  which 
bears  responsibility  for  all  of  the  illegal  colonization 
activities in the occupied Palestinian territory and for 
their  consequences  and  must  be  held  accountable  for 
those crimes.
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues  the  illegal 
construction  of  settlements  and  networks  of  Israeli-
only bypass roads linking settlements, the confiscation 
of vast land areas and the transfer of Israeli settlers to 
the occupied Palestinian territory, as it has flagrantly 
pushed  ahead  with  its  plans  to  colonize  and  de  facto 
annex more Palestinian land, even in the midst of a peace 
process. The Non-Aligned Movement remains firm in 
its condemnation of Israel’s illegal settlement policies 
and practices. We stress that all such unlawful attempts 
to  alter  the  demographic  composition,  character  and 
status  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  are  all  null  and  void  and  have  no 
validity whatsoever. In that connection, the Movement 
calls  for  urgent  action  and  practical  measures  by  the 
international community, in particular by the Security 
Council,  to  compel  the  occupying  Power  to  cease 
completely  its  settlement  campaign  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and 
to  abide  by  all  of  its  obligations  under  international 
law,  including  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention,  United 
Nations  resolutions,  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (A/ES-10/273)  and  its 
obligations under the road map in that regard.
The  sea,  air  and  land  blockade  of  Gaza  imposed 
by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  entered  its  seventh 
year  in  June,  deepening  poverty  and  despair  among 
the  more  than  1.7  million  Palestinians  living  there. 
The  devastating  impact  of  the  illegal  blockade  and 
the  repercussions  of  the  trauma,  destruction  and 
displacement  inflicted  by  Israeli  military  aggression, 
particularly in 2008, 2009 and 2012, have continued to 
impact every human right and to disrupt every aspect 
of life. The blockade constitutes collective punishment 
of  the  entire  Palestinian  civilian  population  in  Gaza, 
which is in grave breach of international humanitarian 
law, in particular the Fourth Geneva Convention. In that 
regard, the Movement calls upon Israel, the occupying 
Power, to promptly and unconditionally end its illegal 
blockade of the Gaza Strip and to open all its crossing 
points to ensure the regular and sustained movement of 
persons and goods, in accordance with its obligations 
under  international  law,  Security  Council  resolution 
1860  (2009)  and  all  other  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions.
and  detention  of 
Israel  has  continued  its  arbitrary  and  abusive 
imprisonment 
thousands  of 
Palestinian  civilians,  including  children  as  young  as 
12  years  old,  who  are  being  subjected,  inter  alia,  to 
forced  interrogation,  violent  beatings,  psychological 
harassment  and  humiliation,  unhygienic  conditions, 
solitary  confinement,  torture,  denial  of  access  to 
medical  care,  education,  family  visits  and  medical 
neglect,  leading  to  death.  It  is  the  conviction  of  the 
Movement,  as  stated  in  the  Declaration  on  Palestine 
Political Prisoners, drafted at the May 2012 Ministerial 
Meeting of the Coordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned 
Movement,  and  adopted  by  the  sixteenth  Summit  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,held  in  Tehran  in  August 
2012, that Palestinian prisoners should be immediately 
released and their plight addressed by the international 
community, particularly the Security Council and the 
Human Rights Council.
NAM  expresses  deep  concern  at  the  lack  of 
progress in the Middle East peace process and regrets 
the fact that, even as peace negotiations have resumed, 
pessimism  is  overtaking  hope,  as  every  passing  day 
reaffirms  that  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  is  more 
interested  in  maintaining  its  control  over  Palestinian 
land than in achieving a just peace. For that objective, 
the  occupying  Power  has  relied  primarily  on  its 
settlement activities — perpetrated in grave breach of 
international humanitarian law — in addition to other 
unlawful  practices  aimed  at  the  isolation,  separation 
and  subjugation  of  the  Palestinian  people,  which 
constitute gross human rights violations and collective 
punishment.
In that connection, we stress the need for intensified 
and coordinated efforts by the international community 
to compel Israel, the occupying Power, to cease its illegal 
policies  and  genuinely  commit  to  the  peace  process 
on  the  basis  of  United  Nations  resolutions  and  long-
standing  agreed  terms  of  reference.  The  international 
community must act to prevent a total collapse of the 
peace process after so many years of effort and support 
for the process, on the basis of a clear foundation rooted 
in international law, United Nations resolutions and the 
international consensus on the two-State solution, based 
on the pre-1967 borders and a just and comprehensive 
solution  to  the  plight  of  the  Palestine  refugees  on  the 
basis of resolution 194 (III).
12/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
The Movement welcomes all efforts and initiatives 
aimed at realizing justice for the Palestinian people and 
stresses  the  importance  of  the  admission  of  the  State 
of  Palestine  as  a  non-member  observer  State  by  the 
General  Assembly,  on  29  November  2012,  as  well  as 
its admission as a Member State by the United Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
General  Conference.  We  consider  that  development 
to  be  a  vote  of  confidence  affirming  that  Palestine 
meets the Charter’s criteria for statehood, and that it is 
ready and willing to assume its responsibilities under 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  optimistic 
that  the  General  Assembly’s  granting  of  non-member 
observer  State  status  to  Palestine  will  help  accelerate 
the  momentum  in  the  Security  Council  regarding  its 
pending United Nations application.
In  conclusion, 
reaffirms 
the  Movement 
its 
unwavering  commitment  to  a  just  and  comprehensive 
solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, with the question 
of Palestine at its core, and to the immediate restoration 
of  the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
exercise  its  self-determination  and  sovereignty  in  an 
independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital.
Mr. Khiari (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): It gives me 
great pleasure to speak on behalf of the Arab Group in 
the debate on agenda item 36, regarding the question of 
Palestine, which coincides with the commemoration of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People.  This  is  an  important  occasion,  at  which  the 
international community reiterates its solidarity with, 
and  support  for,  the  fraternal  Palestinian  people  in 
its  long  struggle  to  achieve  its  legitimate  aspirations 
to  self-determination,  to  live  in  dignity,  peace  and 
stability and to build its independent State.
I would like to thank Ambassador Diallo, Chairman 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People, for his statement and for 
introducing the various draft resolutions on Palestine. 
We also thank the ambassador of Malta for introducing 
the Committee’s report (A/68/35). We would also like 
to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his report 
on the peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine 
(A/68/363).
The Assembly’s adoption of resolution 67/19 at this 
time  last  year,  which  accorded  Palestine  the  status  of 
a  non-member  observer  State  at  the  United  Nations, 
was  a  very  important  landmark  in  the  history  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  Adopted  by  an  overwhelming 
majority, the resolution expresses the broad support of 
the  international  community  for  the  establishment  of 
an independent Palestinian State in the context of the 
two-State  solution.  It  also  reflects  the  firm  belief  of 
various segments of the international community that 
no alternative exists to seeking peace and stability, in 
accordance with the relevant international frameworks, 
in  order  to  open  new  vistas  for  all  the  peoples  of  the 
region.
The 
international  community  was  optimistic 
when  direct  negotiations  resumed  between  the  Israeli 
and Palestinian sides under the auspices of the United 
States. It expressed its full support and encouragement 
for  the  steps  taken,  which  should  involve  maximum 
efforts so as not to squander the opportunity, especially 
given  the  current  situation  in  the  Middle  East.  Any 
further setbacks and disappointments can no longer be 
tolerated.  The  members  of  the  League  of  Arab  States 
were  among  the  first  to  support  those  efforts.  The 
Arab League hopes that those efforts will culminate in 
a  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Palestine 
question  that  allows  the  Palestinian  people  to  regain 
its  rights,  makes  possible  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  State  along  the  June  1967  borders,  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and  leads  to  the  secure 
and peaceful coexistence of all parties in the region.
Unfortunately,  that  is  not  what  we  see  on  the 
ground today when it comes to Israel’s stance, practices 
and  the  provocative  statements  made  by  a  number  of 
its officials. That runs counter to the serious approach 
needed  to  achieve  the  desired  peace,  and  threatens 
ongoing negotiations and the prospects for a resolution 
between the two sides.
The Israeli settlements are a gross violation of the 
rules of international law regulating the legal status of 
territories  under  foreign  occupation.  They  also  seek 
to  change  the  character  of  the  occupied  territories. 
That involves the threat of partitioning the Palestinian 
territories  and  their  fragmentation,  imperilling  the 
prospects for the establishment of the Palestinian State. 
In  that  context,  the  Arab  Group  calls  for  ending  the 
settlement  activities,  which  are  a  gross  violation  of 
the  norms  of  international  law,  and  for  adherence  to 
the United Nations resolutions regarding international 
legitimacy  and  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  peace 
process.
We continue to condemn the acts of aggression by 
the occupying authorities and by Israeli settlers against 
the  Palestinians,  the  confiscation  of  their  land,  the 
13-57987
13/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
demolition of their homes and the infringement of their 
most fundamental rights, including those of prisoners 
and  detainees.  Such  practices  are,  in  the  opinion  of 
segments  of  the  international  community,  a  breach 
of  international  legitimacy,  and  a  blatant  challenge 
to  the  principles  of  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian law. The Arab Group also condemns the 
repeated acts of aggression by the occupation authorities 
and  Israeli  settlers  against  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  and  its 
Christian  and  Islamic  landmarks.  Israel  is  seeking  to 
alter  its  geographic  and  demographic  character,  in 
addition  to  desecrating  Islamic  and  Christian  houses 
of  worship —  especially  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque —  and 
abusing their visitors.
The Group calls for the total lifting of the stifling 
Israeli  embargo  imposed  on  Gaza  since  2007.  We 
must  put  an  end  to  the  serious  and  tragic  economic 
repercussions for the Palestinian population, including 
women and children, resulting from it, which deprives 
it  of  the  most  rudimentary  possibilities  of  earning  a 
decent livelihood.
The  Arab  Group  affirms  the  contents  of  the 
statement  issued  by  the  meeting  of  the  Ministerial 
Committee for the Arab Peace Initiative held last week 
in Kuwait. The Committee reiterated
“its  support  for  the  resumed  negotiations,  while 
warning of the risks resulting from the continued 
acts of aggression and practices of Israel, including 
the  settlement  policies,  which  risk  derailing  the 
current  negotiations.  The  Committee  calls  on  the 
United  States  and  other  members  of  the  Quartet 
to  compel  the  Israeli  Government  to  cease  all 
its  destructive  policies  and  practices,  which  are 
detrimental to the current path of negotiations and 
the peace process”.
The Arab Group recalls the fact that the Committee 
reiterated that it was
“committed  to  the  principles,  contents  and  terms 
of reference of the Arab Peace Initiative to achieve 
just  peace  in  the  region  based  on  international 
law  and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations — putting an end to the Israeli occupation 
of  Palestinian 
territories  and  establishing  an 
independent Palestinian State along the June 1967 
borders  and  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
thereby resolving all final-status issues, including 
concerning borders, security, Jerusalem, refugees, 
water and the release of Palestinian prisoners and 
detainees”.
Finally, I cannot but reaffirm the fact that the Arab 
Group  is  committed  to  achieving  a  just,  durable  and 
comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict on 
all tracks, foremost of which is the Palestine question. 
The  Group  reiterates  that  there  is  a  need  to  restore 
all  the  Palestinian  people’s  legitimate  and  inalienable 
rights  to  self-determination,  within  an  independent, 
sovereign State within the June 1967 borders and with 
East Jerusalem as its capital.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Montenegro  and  Serbia;  the  countries  of 
the Stabilization and Association Process and potential 
candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  the 
European  Free  Trade  Area  country  Liechtenstein,  a 
member  of  the  European  Economic  Area,  as  well  as 
Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, align themselves 
with this statement.
The  European  Union  has  long  argued  that  the 
historical changes under way in the Middle East made 
the need for progress on the Middle East peace process 
all the more urgent. We remain convinced that now is 
the time for the Palestinians’ aspirations for statehood 
and  sovereignty  and  the  Israelis’  for  security  to  be 
fulfilled  through  a  comprehensive,  negotiated  peace 
based on the two-State solution and ending all claims. 
For that reason, the European Union warmly welcomed 
the  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between  the 
parties and commended the bold leadership shown by 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu.  We 
also  commended  the  fundamental  role  played  by  the 
United States, and the dedication of Secretary of State 
John Kerry and the important support expressed by the 
League of Arab States.
We  also  stressed  the  importance  of  the  fact  that 
the  resumption  of  negotiations  would  lead  to  tangible 
and timely progress, a point that is even more relevant 
today.  The  two  parties  need  to  remain  committed 
to  the  negotiation  process  and  should  refrain  from 
actions that could undermine the prospects for peace. 
We  call  on  both  leaders  to  continue  to  show  the  bold 
leadership  needed  to  overcome  the  challenges  ahead 
and to take the difficult decisions that are necessary if 
14/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
a comprehensive agreement is to be reached within the 
nine-month agreed time frame.
The  European  Union  will  continue  to  remain 
supportive  of  the  process  and  committed  to  ensuring 
its  success.  As  negotiations  progress,  we  intend  to 
give further concrete form to our support, in line with 
what will be agreed by the parties. We will continue to 
contribute, together with other regional and international 
partners, including within the Quartet, to a negotiated 
solution on all final-status issues, including Jerusalem, 
borders, security, water and refugees. In so doing, we 
will continue to be inspired by our clear positions with 
regard  to  parameters,  principles  and  issues,  including 
those expressed in the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs 
Council of December 2009, December 2010, May 2011, 
July  2011,  May  2012,  December  2012  and  July  2013, 
which I would like to reaffirm on this occasion.
The  European  Union  deplores  the  recent  Israeli 
decisions  to  advance  settlement  expansion  in  East 
Jerusalem  and  the  West  Bank.  Our  position  is  clear: 
settlements,  the  separation  barrier  where  built  on 
occupied  land,  the  demolition  of  homes  and  evictions 
are  illegal  under  international  law.  Such  activities 
constitute  an  obstacle  to  peace  and  threaten  to  make 
a  two-State  solution  impossible.  The  European  Union 
reiterates that it will not recognize any changes to the 
pre-1967 borders, including with regard to Jerusalem, 
other than those agreed by the parties. All settlement 
activity,  including  in  East  Jerusalem,  should  cease 
immediately.  New  construction  plans  should  be 
abandoned.  All  outposts  erected  since  March  2001 
should be dismantled. A way should be found through 
negotiations  to  resolve  the  status  of  Jerusalem  as  the 
future capital of two States.
the  serious 
limitations  on 
The  European  Union  is  also  gravely  concerned 
the  Palestinian 
about 
Authority  with  respect  to  promoting  the  economic 
development  of  Palestinian  communities  in  Area  C 
and  about  their  worsening  living  conditions.  The 
European Union and its member States are particularly 
concerned  by  the  instances  of  collective  demolitions 
in  recent  months,  often  resulting  in  the  displacement 
of  Palestinians,  including  Bedouin  communities.  We 
are  convinced  that  Palestinians  require  access  to  a 
fair planning and zoning regime so as not to resort to 
building  without  an  Israeli  permit,  which  can  lead  to 
demolitions. We also reiterate our call for Israel to work 
together with the Palestinian Authority to allow more 
access to, and control by the Palestinian Authority over, 
Area C. Social and economic developments in Area C 
are of critical importance for the viability of a future 
Palestinian State, since Area C is its main land reserve.
The European Union remains the largest donor to 
the Palestinian Authority and has constantly encouraged 
and  supported  the  Palestinian  State-building  process. 
However, we are particularly concerned with the slowing 
economic development in the Palestinian territory and 
the difficult fiscal situation that is producing. We will 
continue to play our part. At the same time, we call on 
other donors, especially those in the region, to increase 
their financial support to the Palestinian Authority.
The European Union followed with great concern 
the  hostilities  that  affected  the  Gaza  Strip  and  Israel 
in  November  2012,  and  regretted  the  loss  of  civilian 
lives on both sides. We renew our condemnation in the 
strongest  terms  of  any  violence  deliberately  targeting 
civilians. We welcomed the ceasefire that put an end to 
those hostilities, and we urge all parties to fully comply 
with its provisions.
At the same time, we must recognize and underline 
that the present situation in Gaza is unsustainable and 
will  remain  so  as  long  as  it  remains  politically  and 
economically  separated  from  the  West  Bank.  Fully 
recognizing  Israel’s 
legitimate  security  concerns, 
including with regard to vital threats in the region, and 
expressing  its  appreciation  for  some  recent  positive 
measures  by  Israel  with  regard  to  the  opening  of  the 
crossings  for  commercial  goods,  the  European  Union 
continues  to  call  for  the  immediate,  sustained  and 
unconditional  opening  of  crossings  for  the  flow  of 
humanitarian aid, commercial goods and persons to and 
from the Gaza Strip. To that end, the European Union 
calls  for  the  full  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1860  (2009),  full  respect  for  international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  full  implementation  of  the 
2005 Agreement on Movement and Access.
The  European  Union  also  continues  to  call  for 
intra-Palestinian reconciliation behind President Abbas 
in line with the principles set out in his speech of 4 May 
2011, as an important element for the unity of a future 
Palestinian State and for reaching a two-State solution.
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
In  conclusion,  the  European  Union  reaffirms  its 
commitment to the two-State solution. We have before 
us  a  historic  opportunity  to  reach  an  agreement  to 
finally  end  this  conflict.  We  are  convinced  that  such 
13-57987
15/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
an  agreement  would  open  the  door  to  deepened  and 
enhanced  cooperation  between  the  European  Union 
and all the countries of the region, thereby contributing 
to  the  prospect  for  a  new  era  of  peace,  security  and 
prosperity.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  we  wish  to  align  ourselves  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Tunisia  on  behalf 
of  the  Arab  Group  and  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
the  commemoration  of 
The  General  Assembly  debate  on  this  important 
item  coincides  with 
the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People and the first anniversary of resolution 67/19, on 
the recognition of Palestine as a non-member observer 
State at the United Nations. In that context, we express 
our  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General 
and  the  various  United  Nations  entities,  in  particular 
the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People  and  the  Special  Committee 
to  Investigate  Israeli  Practices  Affecting  the  Human 
Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the 
Occupied Territories.
We  support  all  regional  and  international  efforts 
to  reach  a  final  solution,  especially  the  ongoing 
negotiations between the Palestinian and Israeli sides to 
achieve a solution on all final-status issues, including 
borders,  settlements,  water,  Jerusalem,  refugees  and 
security. We commend the United States for its role in 
facilitating  the  resumption  of  negotiations.  However, 
Israeli  practices  may  undermine  the  possibility  of 
reaching a final solution. Israel continues to build new 
settlement  units  and  to  expand  existing  settlements 
in  complete  disregard  for  its  international  obligations 
and for the calls of the international community to end 
those  illegal  practices,  which  contravene  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  of  1949.  The  Israeli  Government 
also  continues  to  confiscate  land  and  to  restrict 
the  movement  of  people  and  goods  by  dividing  up 
the  Palestinian  territories.  The  economic  blockade 
imposed  by  Israel  on  Gaza  has  entered  its  seventh 
year,  exacerbating  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian 
people. The fact that thousands of Palestinian citizens, 
including  women  and  children,  remain  in  Israeli  jails 
also  contravenes  international  law  and  international 
humanitarian law and is a major source of continuing 
tension in the region.
We  call  on  the  international  community  to  put 
pressure on Israel to unconditionally cease its aggressive 
practices  and  its  illegal  blockade  of  Gaza,  to  open 
all  border  crossings  and  to  stop  all  illegal  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  territories.  We  urge  Israel 
to  put  an  end  to  its  repeated  attacks  on  the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque  and  its  attempts  to  alter  the  geographic  and 
demographic  nature  of  Jerusalem  and  to  comply  with 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973), 
1397  (2002),  1515  (2003)  and  1860  (2009),  which  call 
for Israel to withdraw from all territories occupied in 
1967.
In that context, we call for the immediate release 
of all Palestinians detained in Israeli jails, specifically 
the  sick  and  the  children,  as  well  as  those  detained 
before the Oslo Agreement. We call on the international 
community to put pressure on Israel to ensure the fair 
treatment  of  Palestinian  prisoners  in  accordance  with 
international  law,  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and 
international humanitarian law, as a first step towards 
their release.
We  call  on  Israel  to  implement  Security  Council 
resolution 497 (1981), which calls for Israel to withdraw 
from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  the  pre-June  1967 
borders.
We also support the brotherly country of Lebanon 
and its efforts to protect its security and to preserve its 
territorial integrity. We call on Israel to put an end to its 
aggression against Lebanon from the land and the air 
and to withdraw from all occupied Lebanese territories, 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006).
In conclusion, we support all legitimate aspirations 
of  the  brotherly  and  steadfast  Palestinian  people.  The 
people  of  Kuwait  and  its  leadership  will  continue  to 
provide  political,  moral  and  financial  support  to  the 
brotherly people of Palestine in order to put an end to 
the  Israeli  occupation  and  to  establish  a  Palestinian 
State,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  international  law 
and international terms of reference. We hope that the 
Palestinian  State  will  soon  become  the  194th  State 
Member of the United Nations.
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  (A/68/35)  and  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  the 
16/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
With  today’s  debate  we  add  to  the  long  list  of 
discussions  in  the  United  Nations  on  the  question  of 
Palestine that have not led to an effective solution that 
can put an end to Israel’s crimes against the Palestinian 
people and that will make it possible for them to fully 
exercise their inalienable right to self-determination in 
a fully independent State of Palestine.
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues  to  defy 
the  international  community  by  persisting  in  its 
transgression  of  international  norms  and  treaties  and 
in  its  non-compliance  with  General  Assembly  and 
Security Council resolutions.
The  report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  notes 
the worsening situation in the region, in particular in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem.  That  is  particularly  as  a  result  of  Israel’s 
excessive  use  of  force  against  the  Palestinian  civilian 
population  and  the  many  other  illegal  policies  and 
practices, such as the expansion of Israeli settlements, 
continuing  human  rights  violations  and  collective 
punishment,  which  cause 
the  Palestinian  people 
immense suffering.
On  29  November  2012,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted by an overwhelming majority resolution 67/19, 
which  granted  Palestine  the  status  of  non-member 
observer  State  at  the  United  Nations.  That  led  to 
Israel’s  announcement  of  its  intention  to  build  more 
than  3,000  housing  units  in  the  occupied  territories, 
including in occupied East Jerusalem, and to withhold 
from  Palestine  the  tax  and  customs  revenue  collected 
on behalf of the Palestinians.
Cuba  reiterates  its  condemnation  of  the  ongoing 
expansion of all illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as 
well  as  the  continuing  violation  of  Security  Council 
resolutions and the Fourth Geneva Convention.
The 
Independent 
International  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  implications  of  the  Israeli  settlements 
on  the  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights of the Palestinian people throughout the occupied 
Palestinian 
Jerusalem, 
appointed by the Human Rights Council, concluded that 
the settlement policy contravened a multitude of human 
rights of the Palestinian people and that the violations 
including  East 
territory, 
were  interrelated  and  formed  part  of  an  overall 
pattern  of  violations  that  was  primarily  characterized 
by  the  denial  of  the  right  to  self-determination  and 
institutionalized discrimination against the Palestinian 
people.
The  aggressive  acts  of  Israeli  settlers  against 
Palestinians  in  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem 
continue.  The  illegal  contruction  of  the  wall  in  the 
occupied  West  Bank  continues,  in  violation  of  the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice 
of 9 July 2004 (see A/ES-10/273). The restrictions have 
caused severe losses to the majority of the population, 
who  do  not  have  access  to  medical,  educational  and 
social  services  or  the  markets  and  holy  sites  in  East 
Jerusalem.
During the period covered by the report of the Fact-
Finding  Mission,  Israel  carried  out  the  demolition  of 
at least 594 Palestinian-owned structures, displacing at 
least  924  people.  During  the  reporting  period,  Israeli 
forces killed at least 196 Palestinians and injured more 
than 1,600 people in the Gaza Strip. In addition, Israeli 
forces caused the deaths of 20 Palestinians and injured 
more  than  4,200  people  in  the  West  Bank  and  East 
Jerusalem during clashes.
The  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  people  and 
goods from and to the Gaza Strip continued to cause a 
deterioration in the living conditions of the 1.7 million 
Palestinian residents, including women and children.
I have mentioned only some of the alarming data 
provided to us by the recent report of the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People, which vividly depicts the serious violations that 
Israel  continues  to  perpetrate  against  the  Palestinian 
people.
Cuba  renews  its  strong  condemnation  of  those 
actions  and  of  Israel’s  illegal  occupation  of  the 
Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem. Cuba 
demands  that  the  occupying  Power  immediately  halt 
its  acts  of  aggression.  The  international  community 
must not remain unmoved any longer at the continued 
deterioration  of  the  situation  and  must  take  action  to 
ensure  that  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council are respected.
The Security Council must take the responsibility 
incumbent upon it and must accept, without any further 
delay,  the  request  made  by  the  State  of  Palestine  in 
2011 for recognition as a State Member of the United 
13-57987
17/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
Nation. That is the express wish of the overwhelming 
majority of the States that make up the Organization. 
The  passivity  of  the  Security  Council  before  Israel’s 
crimes, owing to the threat or the use of the veto by one 
of its permanent members, is the highest expression of 
hypocrisy on the part of those who are self-appointed 
paragons  in  defending  and  respecting  human  rights 
when  it  comes  to  criticizing  or  punishing  developing 
countries  that  disagree  with  their  policies  or  defy  the 
political, social or economic order they want to impose.
Cuba  supports  the  initiative  of  the  Committee  on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People  to  have  the  General  Assembly  proclaim  an 
international  year  of  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
people in order to increase international awareness of 
the cause.
Before  I  conclude,  I  wish  to  commend,  on  behalf 
of  Cuba,  the  decision  of  Guyana  and  El  Salvador  to 
establish diplomatic relations with the State of Palestine. 
Furthermore,  Cyprus,  Denmark,  Finland,  Lithuania 
and  Switzerland  have  decided  to  give  the  Palestinian 
delegations in their countries the status of embassies or 
a similar entity.
Just  a  few  days  ago,  we  bore  witness  to  a 
historic  moment  in  the  General  Assembly,  when  the 
representative of the State of Palestine participated for 
the  first  time  in  an  election  in  this  organ  (see  A/68/
PV.53).  Cuba  congratulates  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Palestine  for  that  event,  which  is  a  new 
step  towards  what  should  be  the  final  objective,  that 
is,  the  participation  of  the  State  of  Palestine  as  a  full 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Cuba  will  continue 
to  support  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  legitimate 
struggle for justice, peace, dignity and the right to self-
determination.  We  also  reiterate  our  desire  for  peace 
for the rest of the peoples of the Middle East.
Mr.  Waheed  (Maldives):  Last  week,  the  State  of 
Palestine  cast  its  first  ballot  in  a  General  Assembly 
election  (see  A/68/PV.53).  It  was  a  symbolic  step 
by  a  nation  determined  to  become  a  full  Member  of 
the  Organization.  It  was  one  step  of  many  towards 
recognition.  No  matter  how  long  it  takes  or  how 
difficult  the  path,  the  Republic  of  the  Maldives  will 
walk shoulder to shoulder with our Palestinian brothers 
and  sisters.  The  vast  majority  of  the  United  Nations 
membership  supports  Palestine  in  that  journey.  The 
work of the Organization will continue to support the 
aspirations  of  its  people,  as  manifested  today  in  the 
work  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Committee  on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People.
My  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
the compilation of his report (A/68/363), in accordance 
with resolution 67/23, and we thank the Committee of 
for its report (A/68/35).
Next  Friday  will  mark  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. I wish to reiterate 
the solidarity of my Government and that of the people 
of  Maldives  with  the  Palestinian  people’s  inalienable 
right to self-determination. The Maldives will remain 
steadfast in support of Palestine, and we will not falter 
in  our  condemnation  of  the  serious  injustices  being 
committed  in  the  occupied  territories.  The  political 
and  religious  authorities  of  both  sides  need  to  ensure 
that  the  cultural  and  religious  rights  of  all  people  are 
respected, and that the right to live free from fear and 
abuse is respected.
It  has  been  66  years  since  the  General  Assembly 
adopted resolution 181 (II), on the partition of Palestine. 
Yet we still find ourselves in this Hall today expressing 
our concerns about how little progress has been made. 
The situation has become a never-ending conflict that 
takes place not only on the battlefield but on city streets 
and in the homes of innocents.
The  Secretary-General’s  report  notes  that,  during 
the  previous  reporting  period,  338  Palestinians  were 
killed,  including  232  Palestinian  civilians  and  eight 
Israelis.  Those  figures  not  only  represent  an  increase 
in the violence of an ongoing conflict, but demonstrate 
the  true  nature  of  the  conflict.  Although  this  is  a 
war zone, it is not a war: it is an occupation. It is the 
disenfranchisement of a nation to exist and of a people 
to  be  free.  It  is  the  theft  of  their  economic  right  to 
prosper and their right to hope for a brighter future.
We  have  not  given  up  hope.  Our  Government 
welcomed  the  resumption  of  Israeli-Palestinian  peace 
talks in August with the active mediation of the United 
States.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  commends  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Government  of  Egypt, 
the  United  States  and  the  United  Nations  for  their 
exemplary  leadership.  My  delegation  is  fully  in  line 
with the principled position that a permanent settlement 
of  the  question  of  Palestine  can  be  reached  only  by 
ending the occupation that began in 1967, achieving the 
independence of the State of Palestine on the basis of 
the pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
18/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
and achieving a just and agreed solution to the Palestine 
refugee issue on the basis of resolution 194 (III).
is 
The  unfortunate  reality,  however, 
that  a 
comprehensive solution is still years away. We believe 
in a two-State solution, but expert after expert has told 
us  at  the  United  Nations  that  the  window  for  such  a 
solution is closing. It is being closed by new settlements 
changing  the  demographics  of  Palestine.  It  is  being 
closed by an economic embargo meant to leave a people 
destitute.  It  is  also  being  closed  by  a  refusal  to  grant 
Palestinians access to Palestinian land.
Discriminatory  practices  by  the  occupying  Power 
have had a devastating impact on the most vulnerable 
and  have  had  dire  impacts  on  social  and  economic 
sectors, as well as on Palestine’s natural resources and 
its environment. The 1993 Oslo Accords stipulated that 
area C of the West Bank was to be transferred to the 
Palestinian Authority by 1998. That has not happened. 
The World Bank released a report last month that attests 
that  the  refusal  is  costing  the  Palestinian  economy 
$3.4 billion.
that 
inherently 
is  one 
The  occupation 
leads 
Palestine  to  being  poor  and  dependent  on  foreign 
aid.  The  occupation  makes  it  a  breeding  ground  for 
extremism.  The  occupation  also  stands  in  the  way  of 
every  measure  that  would  afford  them  an  ounce  of 
dignity, and it is perpetuating a cycle of oppression that 
has already lasted generations.
There  has  to  be  a  way  forward.  There  has  to 
be  compromise.  Despite  the  advisory  opinion  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  9  July  2004 
(A/ES-10/273), the occupying Power continues with the 
illegal  construction  of  the  wall  in  the  occupied  West 
Bank  and  around  occupied  Jerusalem.  The  wall  is 
estimated to be twice the length of the 1949 armistice 
demarcation line and would isolate and entrap 11,000 
Palestinians,  who  would  then  be  dependent  on  the 
occupying Power granting them permits to them to live 
in their own homes.
Underground  and  surface  water  resources  are 
almost exclusively controlled by the occupying Power. 
The report of the Committee states that
“approximately  1  million  Palestinians  in  492 
communities in the West Bank access or consume 
60  litres  of  water  per  capita  per  day  or  less, 
significantly below the World Health Organization 
recommendation  of  100  litres  per  capita  per 
day  ...  Israeli  settlers  in  the  West  Bank  consume 
approximately  six  times  the  water  consumed  by 
Palestinians” (A/68/35, para. 37).
The expansion of settlements is detrimental to the 
peace  process  and  undermines  the  basis  for  a  future 
Palestinian  State.  Yet  the  Government  of  Israel  has 
approved  the  construction  of  approximately  24,000 
residential  units  in  the  occupied  territories  and  has 
retroactively  legalized  others.  Under  international 
law,  settlement  activity  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  that  in  East  Jerusalem,  is  illegal. 
The Government of Israel, however, continues to issue 
construction tenders for housing units that will stop the 
development  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Furthermore, 
they refuse to act when illegal construction takes place 
on  the  private  property  of  Palestinians.  The  Republic 
of  the  Maldives  strongly  condemns  those  actions. 
We  furthermore  condemn  the  unjust  demolition  and 
evictions  that  took  place  in  Area  C  and  resulted  in 
the  displacement  of  some  907  individuals,  including 
458  children.  In  the  interests  of  pursuing  meaningful 
negotiations  and  a  lasting  peace,  it  is  up  to  the 
occupying  Power  to  cease  all  illegal  activity  in  the 
occupied territories.
The  Maldives  commends  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Palestinians to advance their State-building programme 
despite  the  serious  budget  deficits  and  restrictions 
imposed  by  the  occupying  Power.  The  Maldives 
believes unequivocally in the need for an independent, 
free and sovereign Palestinian State. We also believe in 
the right of Israel to security, safety and peace. It is the 
occupation that is the problem for both nations. It is the 
occupation that perpetuates hatred, fear and violence. 
We,  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  beat 
this drum year after year, and we make little progress. 
The ancestors of those two nations built the pyramids 
in less time than we have taken to find a just and lasting 
solution to this question. Generations have lived under 
oppression and fear. It is our hope that this is the last 
generation  —  the  one  that  will  see  the  end  of  this 
journey.
Mrs.  Nusseibeh  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  On  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day 
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, I would first 
like to emphasize a message from His Highness Sheikh 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United 
Arab  Emirates,  to  the  Chair  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, regarding the firm position of the Government 
13-57987
19/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
and people of the United Arab Emirates on supporting 
the  State  of  Palestine  until  its  territories  and  all  its 
legitimate rights, including the right of return and self-
determination, are fully restored, and it is established 
as an independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. I 
would also like to take this opportunity to express our 
appreciation and continued support for the Committee 
and  its  efforts  to  advance  the  Palestinian  cause  and 
promote  a  peaceful  solution  to  all  the  aspects  of  the 
issue, in accordance with the decisions of international 
law.
My delegation welcomes the Palestinian delegation’s 
participation, for the first time since the establishment 
of the United Nations, in a vote in a General Assembly 
election (see A/68/PV.53). We regard it as a significant 
and  historic  step  and  look  forward  to  its  culmination 
soon in international recognition of Palestine as a full 
Member and independent State of the United Nations, 
like all others.
We  also  emphasize 
importance  of 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly  supports  all 
the positive regional and international political efforts 
that for decades have attempted to achieve a peaceful, 
fair  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question,  including 
those  made  recently  by  the  United  States,  leading 
three months ago to the resumption of direct political 
negotiations  between  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  sides 
with a view to reaching a final peace agreement settling 
all  the  core  issues.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation 
emphasizes the essential role played by the United States 
in resuming negotiations. However, if negotiations fail 
we cannot go back to square one.
the 
the 
commitment  on  the  part  of  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power, to lifting the unjust siege imposed on the Gaza 
Strip, releasing thousands of Palestinian detainees and 
withdrawing from all occupied Palestinian territories. 
That  is  a  prerequisite  for  creating  an  environment 
conducive to continuing the negotiations and reaching, 
within  the  nine-month  deadline,  an  acceptable  peace 
agreement based on a two-State solution and peaceful 
coexistence and that complies with the relevant United 
Nations resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative and the 
agreed  principles  of  the  peace  process.  We  strongly 
condemn  Israel’s  ongoing  settlement  activities,  and 
hold the Israeli Government responsible for the current 
breakdown  in  negotiations  and  other  efforts  aimed  at 
achieving a just settlement of the issue. Now more than 
ever, we urge the international community, especially 
the  Quartet  and  the  Security  Council,  to  take  serious 
and  concrete  measures  to  force  Israel  to  immediately 
cease all its illegal settlement activities.
The economic and social conditions in the occupied 
Palestinian territories have deteriorated severely owing 
on  the  one  hand  to  ongoing  Israeli  practices  and  on 
the  other  to  the  Palestinian  Authority’s  inadequate 
resources.  We  hope  that  donors  will  provide  more 
emergency  aid  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  continue 
their development assistance contributions in a timely 
manner, in order to enable the Palestinian Authority to 
overcome  its  current  financial  crisis  and  alleviate  the 
negative effects of the occupation.
In closing, my delegation, which is a sponsor of the 
four draft resolutions (A/68/L.12, A/68/L.13, A/68/L.14 
and A/68/L.15) under this agenda item in the General 
Assembly,  believes  that  a  just,  comprehensive  and 
lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  the  only  strategic 
option for countries that support peace and stability in 
the region. That cannot be achieved without addressing 
the root causes of the Arab-Israeli conflict, including 
Israel’s  withdrawal  to  the  pre-June  1967  borders,  and 
the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State 
with full sovereignty and East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr.  Alrowaiei  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  afforded  by  the 
forthcoming  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People  to  reiterate  Bahrain’s  support  and 
backing for the Palestinian people in their just journey 
towards recovering their inalienable rights and creating 
an  independent  State  on  their  national  territory  with 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  so  they  can  be  like  all  other 
peoples.
In this context, His Majesty King Hamad bin Issa 
Al Khalifa of Bahrain has sent a letter to the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian People in which he urges the international 
community  to  remain  vigilant  and  to  monitor  the 
situation carefully so as to bring an end to all activities 
resulting  from  Israeli  practices  that  might  impede  or 
hamper negotiations — to the illegal settlement activity 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  especially 
Jerusalem; to the repeated Israeli attacks on religious 
sites, especially the Al-Aqsa Mosque; and to the unjust 
blockade of Gaza. It is also important that negotiations 
ensure  that  all  religious  sites  are  treated  equally.  His 
Majesty also noted that it is a propitious time to achieve 
a just and lasting peace.
20/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
The international community should therefore step 
up its efforts to make the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations 
a  success,  and  we  hope  that  we  will  be  able  through 
negotiations  to  rapidly  put  an  end  to  the  conflict.  We 
have  no  doubt  that  the  creation  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State  that  is  lasting  and  viable,  living 
side  by  side  with  Israel,  within  safe  and  recognized 
borders,  is  an  urgent  matter  and  can  be  achieved. 
That  is  especially  true  following  the  adoption  by  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  resolution  67/19,  granting 
Palestine the status of non-member observer State in a 
mark of support for the struggle of the brave Palestinian 
people. His Majesty the King has also stated that those 
are  feasible  and  legitimate  aspirations  insofar  as  the 
United Nations is working for a just and lasting peace 
with the support of all its Member States, and that we 
will achieve our objective through the creation of two 
States living side by side in peace and cooperation with 
each other.
We 
thank  Ambassador  Diallo,  Chair  of 
the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People,  and  all  members  of  the 
Committee  for  their  diligent  and  praiseworthy  efforts 
to  draft  the  report  before  us  (A/68/363).  We  highly 
appreciate their efforts to enable the Palestinian people 
to  exercise  their  inalienable  rights,  as  recognized  by 
the  General  Assembly  in  1974.  The  Security  Council 
resolutions  of  1967  also  recognized  the  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  all  Arabs  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territories.
We would also like to thank the Chair for raising the 
awareness of the international community with regard 
to  the  suffering  and  needs  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
and for all media activity within the framework of the 
General  Assembly,  including  the  awareness-raising 
and  training  programme  for  Palestinian  journalists 
held  last  year,  which  shed  light  on  various  aspects 
of  developments  and  progress  related  to  the  issue  of 
Palestine and the Middle East peace process.
The report before us contains detailed information 
that  reflects  the  deterioration  of  the  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories.  That  deterioration  is 
ongoing,  day  after  day,  and  includes  constraints  and 
limitations on the freedom of movement, closures, the 
blockade of Gaza, and the continued building of the wall 
of separation by Israel. A just, comprehensive and lasting 
peace is a strategic option that will require the adoption 
of  United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  implementation 
of  all  relevant  documents  and  resolutions,  including 
respect for the road map, the principle of land for peace, 
and the Arab Peace Initiative. The International Day of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People closely reflects 
the  aspirations  and  the  feelings  of  the  international 
community towards the brotherly Palestinian people.
Mr.  Masood  Kahn  (Pakistan):  Resolution  67/19, 
adopted  last  year,  is  a  landmark  in  the  struggle  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  realize  their  right  to  self-
determination.  The  resolution  sparked  the  dream  that 
an  independent  State  of  Palestine  would  soon  emerge 
on the map of the world. Today we express once again 
our solidarity with the Palestinian people.
Earlier this year, hopes for a State of Palestine were 
revived  with  the  reactivation  of  the  peace  process.  In 
that regard, we pay tribute to the United States Secretary 
of State, Mr. John Kerry, whose persistent and resolute 
diplomacy  brought  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  the 
Israeli Government back to the negotiating table. What 
we have seen in the past five months is that the dialogue 
between the two sides is fragile. Despite that, we must 
not  lose  hope.  The  talks  should  not  break  down.  We 
understand  and  respect  the  vow  of  secrecy  between 
the  sides  on  the  sensitive  and  difficult  negotiations 
they  are  conducting.  Public  signs  about  those  talks 
are,  however,  not  very  encouraging.  The  resignations 
of the Palestinian negotiators point to serious problems 
behind closed doors.
There  are  four  obstacles  to  the  success  of  the 
negotiations that must be removed.
First,  the  two  sides,  the  people  of  Israel  and 
Palestine,  and  not  just  their  official  representatives, 
should  believe  in  and  support  a  two-State  solution. 
Two independent States, Palestine and Israel, with their 
border drawn as it existed before the 1967 war, should 
plan  to  live  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  East 
Jerusalem, Al-Quds Al-Sharif, will be the Palestinian 
State’s capital.
A  two-State  solution  is  the  best  solution  on  the 
table.  All  others  —  a  binational  State  or  a  unitary, 
singular State —are mirages that would further fracture 
the  two  States  and  shatter  all  hopes  for  peace.  The 
vision  of  the  two-State  solution  should  be  owned  and 
backed by multiple religious communities and secular 
constituencies  on  both  sides.  To  that  end,  the  leaders 
on  both  sides  have  to  inspire  and  instil  confidence. 
Palestine  and  Israel  must  heed  Secretary  Kerry’s  call 
for a sense of urgency, because if no progress is made in 
the nine-month talks, the window of opportunity will 
13-57987
21/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
start  to  close  and  the  peace  process  will  plunge  back 
into free fall and uncertainty.
Secondly,  Israel  must  roll  back  its  plans  for 
expanding illegal settlements. The Secretary-General, 
in his report entitled “Peaceful settlement of the question 
of Palestine” (A/68/363), maintains that settlements are 
illegal under international law and has warned that the 
situation  on  the  ground  presents  a  growing  cause  of 
concern over the viability of a two-State solution. Israel 
knows  that  those  settlements  are  the  single  biggest 
impediment to peace talks. Yet on 3 November, it chose 
to  announce  plans  for  over  1,700  units,  followed  by 
plans for the construction of another 20,000 units in the 
West Bank, including in the E-1 area.
That frantic surge in settlements should be halted 
to  give  the  talks  a  chance  to  succeed.  In  that  regard, 
we urge the United States to use its special relationship 
and  influence  with  Israel.  That  is  also  necessary 
to  prevent  the  Palestinian  State  from  turning  into 
disjointed  enclaves.  The  new  Palestinian  State  must 
have a geographically viable, contiguous territory. We 
welcome the release of Palestinian prisoners by Israel, 
but  regret  that  the  impact  of  that  gesture  has  been 
neutralized by the announcement of new settlements.
Thirdly,  dispossessions  in  the  occupied  territory, 
especially  in  East  Jerusalem,  must  be  stopped.  The 
report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People (A/68/35) 
registers  a  significant  increase  in  demolitions  and 
displacements.  The  number  of  people  displaced  from 
East  Jerusalem  in  the  first  eight  months  of  2013  was 
more than the combined total for 2011 and 2012. Media 
reports  suggest  that  while  the  number  of  settlers  is 
growing, thousands of Palestinians are being forced to 
leave Jerusalem.
Fourthly, in Gaza the collective punishment meted 
out to the Palestinians continued into its seventh year. 
An average of fewer than 200 people were allowed out 
of Gaza per day in the first half of 2013, compared to 
around 26,000 in the same period before the blockade. 
Nineteen  out  of  20  projects  of  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East have ground to a halt due to the shortage of 
construction materials.
The  international  community  should  not  remain 
silent while Palestine continues to disappear before our 
eyes.  We  appreciate  the  European  Union  guidelines 
on the funding of projects in the occupied Palestinian 
territories. The Quartet should also become more active 
in supporting the peace process. Pakistan believes that 
the  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  including 
through 
from  Lebanese 
territories and the Syrian Golan, is the only guarantee 
of sustainable peace in the region.
Israeli  withdrawal 
the 
The Palestinian Authority undertook the ambitious 
task of building infrastructure and institutions for the 
future Palestinian State three years ago. They have made 
considerable progress towards achieving that objective, 
but  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  The  international 
community must step forward to help the Palestinians 
more vigorously in that endeavour.
Palestine sits at the United Nations today as a State 
and was able to vote in the General Assembly for the 
first time last week (see A/68/PV.53). This is a reality 
that must be recognized by all. There is no alternative. 
The sooner this realization sinks in, the less will be the 
suffering  on  all  sides  and  the  better  it  will  be  for  the 
peace and stability of the region.
Mr.  Al-Naama  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me  at  the  outset  to  thank  President  Ashe  for  having 
convened this meeting and to extend my thanks to the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People for its efforts to ease the suffering 
of the Palestinian people and to ensure that all of their 
rights are restored. I pay tribute to the important role 
played  by  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  for  its 
efforts to that end.
We align ourselves with the statements made by the 
representatives of Tunisia on behalf of the Arab Group 
and  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
This year, we are celebrating the first anniversary 
of  the  historic  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
grant  the  State  of  Palestine  the  status  of  non-member 
observer State. That historic decision repaired a great 
injustice  done  to  the  Palestinian  people.  It  was  also 
in  keeping  with  the  ultimate  objective  of  creating  a 
Palestinian State within the pre-1967 borders, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital, in order to restore the rights of 
the Palestinian people and work for lasting peace in the 
Middle East.
We have always stated that the only viable solution 
is a two-State solution on the basis of the Madrid terms 
of  reference,  the  concept  of  land  for  peace,  the  road 
map and the Arab Peace Initiative. The achievement of 
22/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
that  objective,  unfortunately,  is  hampered  by  Israel’s 
strategy  of  fait  accompli,  occupation,  use  of  brutal 
force  and  rejection  of  the  option  of  peace  and  of  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State,  and  by  its  continuing 
illegal settlement activities in the occupied territories, 
in addition to the statements made by its representatives 
rejecting  the  concept  of  a  just,  comprehensive  and 
lasting peace on the basis of the relevant decisions of 
the United Nations.
Israel  continues  to  violate  international  law  and 
international  humanitarian  law,  as  is  quite  clear  from 
such  international  documents  as  the  report  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People (A/68/35). Palestinians, including 
women and children, continue to be detained in Israeli 
prisons  and  detention  centres,  buildings  continue  to 
be  bulldozed,  the  separation  wall  keeps  growing,  and 
the  violence  against  the  Palestinian  people  continues 
unabated.  We  are  especially  concerned  by  the  Israeli 
Government’s  strategy  of  sabotaging  the  Palestinian 
economy and depriving the Palestinian people of access 
to  water.  Qatar  rejects  and  condemns  any  attempt  to 
judaize Jerusalem and to desecrate holy sites, Muslim 
or  Christian,  including  attacks  on  the  holy  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque  and  the  excavation  work  being  carried  out 
beneath  it.  We  urge  the  United  Nations  and  all  other 
relevant international organizations to ensure that the 
national and Arab character of Jerusalem is respected.
The  unfair  blockade  imposed  by  Israel  on  Gaza 
continues, despite the deterioration of the humanitarian 
and  economic  situation  there.  Building  materials,  for 
example,  have  been  prohibited  from  being  imported 
into the territory, despite the calls of the United Nations 
to lift that prohibition. The electricity supply in Gaza 
is unreliable, which undermines basic living conditions 
there.
The deterioration of Palestinian living conditions in 
the occupied territories, in particular Gaza, the ongoing 
suffering of the Palestinian diaspora, the repression by 
the occupying forces, the repeated military aggression 
against 
the  Palestinian  people  and  violations  of 
international  law  by  the  occupying  Power  remind  us 
today of the need to lend our support to the Palestinian 
people  whenever  possible.  We  urge  the  international 
community  to  work  for  a  lasting,  comprehensive  and 
just  peace  and  to  support  the  Palestinian  movement 
towards  the  creation  of  a  Palestinian  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, that includes all the territory 
occupied since 1967.
Qatar  underscores  that  Israel’s  occupation  of 
the  Syrian  Golan  is  a  threat  to  peace  and  security 
throughout  the  region  and  a  violation  of  international 
law  and  decisions  of  international  legitimacy.  Israel’s 
attempts to annex the Syrian Golan are null and void. 
We  condemn  the  illegal  Israeli  practices  seeking  to 
appropriate  natural  resources  in  the  area,  including 
water resources.
In conclusion, on the occasion of the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, I express 
our full solidarity with the Palestinian people and their 
Government in their struggle to put an end to foreign 
occupation  and  recover  their  inalienable  rights.  Qatar 
will  continue  to  provide  aid  and  assistance  to  the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  until  their  inalienable 
rights have been restored.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  About  a 
year ago, in a historic gesture, the General Assembly 
adopted resolution 67/19, whereby it acknowledged the 
existence of the State of Palestine, which was accepted 
as a non-member observer State in the United Nations. 
With that step, the international community affirmed its 
resolve to move towards responding to the aspirations 
of the Palestinian people and the achievement of their 
dream of establishing their own independent sovereign 
State over their entire territory.
However,  the  General  Assembly  resolution  was 
soon met by arbitrary, provocative actions by the Israeli 
authorities,  including  the  pursuit  of  new,  aggressive 
settlement  policies  to  build  thousands  of  residential 
units  within  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  with 
the aim of placing more new Jewish immigrants on the 
Palestinian land that is still in the hands of Palestinians 
and of undermining the possibility of the establishment 
of any form of a Palestinian State on less than 20 per 
cent of the historical land of Palestine. That was borne 
out by the 355 per cent increase in settlement activities 
during the first quarter of this year compared with the 
same period last year.
Despite  broad  international  condemnation  of  the 
Israeli settlement policy and the continuous affirmation 
by the United Nations of Israel’s breaches of international 
law,  the  Israeli  occupation  authorities  have  persisted 
in  their  arrogance,  illegitimate  practices,  violations 
of  international  law  and  refusal  to  acknowledge  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
Palestinian  people  have  been  oppressed  for  decades 
through  the  usurpation  of  their  territory  and  their 
13-57987
23/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
dispersal  throughout  the  world.  Palestinian  suffering 
increases  every  day.  Zionist  settlers  —  armed  to  the 
teeth, shielded by impunity and not held accountable by 
any authority — perpetrate daily actions of aggression 
against  the  actual  owners  of  the  land,  who  are  the 
Palestinians. Instead, they are encouraged by the Israeli 
occupation forces to persist in such barbaric practices, 
which have inflicted gross damage on people, land and 
property.
The Israeli occupation authorities seek to depopulate 
Palestinian territories through detention, intimidation, 
the  demolition  of  homes  and  displacement,  especially 
in East Jerusalem, which has been subjected to a fierce 
campaign of Judaization and demographic manipulation. 
In  blatant  violation  of  the  most  basic  human  rights 
and  principles  of  international  law,  including  the 
Geneva Conventions, the Israeli occupation authorities 
have  imposed  an  embargo  on  more  than  1.5  million 
Palestinians  in  the  largest  prison  on  the  face  of  the 
Earth, the so-called Gaza Strip. I do not think I need 
to recall the details of the various atrocities perpetrated 
by the Israeli occupation authorities, because they are 
practices carried out every day in full view of all and 
always present in our memory.
The  question  of  Palestine  is  the  only  issue  that 
is  as  old  as  the  United  Nations.  Yet  unlike  all  other 
international  questions,  it  has  remained  without  a 
solution  or  even  the  prospect  of  one.  That  is  due  to 
the failure to implement the relevant resolutions of the 
Organization, because Israel is treated as a State above 
the law. It acts on that basis and always finds those to 
protect it, at the expense of the rights of the Palestinian 
people.  Israel  has  never  wanted  to  achieve  a  peace 
agreement  with  the  Palestinians  that  would  allow  the 
Palestinians to exercise self-determination and establish 
a sovereign, independent State. Therefore, since 1993, 
Israel has consistently used the so-called peace process 
to buy time to further assimilate Palestinian territories, 
rendering  the  establishment  of  a  viable  Palestinian 
State  impossible.  That  is  the  current  status  quo,  with 
settlements  metastasizing  like  cancer  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territories.
I  do  not  know  what  will  be  achieved  by  the 
Palestinian-Israeli  talks  if  the  Israelis  have  never 
officially  recognized  an  inch  of  the  land  of  Palestine 
as occupied Palestinian territory. They also call on the 
Palestinians to recognize Israel as a State for the Jewish 
people,  without  defining  the  borders  of  such  a  State. 
That  clearly  means  the  expulsion  of  the  remaining 
Palestinians  from  the  territories  that  were  occupied 
in  1948  and  the  establishment  of  a  so-called  greater 
Israel as envisaged by the leaders of the racist Zionist 
movement  and  the  Israeli  religious  extremists,  with 
the  displacement  of  Palestinians  from  the  remaining 
Palestinian territory.
We have heard the representative of Israel refuse to 
tell the story of the past century but instead invoke the 
history of the past 3,000 years. He does not want to know 
that the number of Jews in historical Palestine in 1917 
was no more than 7 per cent of the population, and that 
in 1947 their number — despite the Balfour Declaration, 
which gave land to those who did not deserve it — was 
no more than 36 per cent of the population of historical 
Palestine. They do not want to acknowledge those facts, 
and they always say that the whole of Palestine belongs 
to the Israeli Jews, who have come from every corner 
of the world and have displaced the indigenous owners, 
who are the Palestinians.
Israel’s continued intransigence, its rejection of all 
attempts at settlement and its continued construction of 
new settlements in the Palestinian territories will lead 
only to further bloodshed and will block international 
initiatives  to  establish  peace  in  the  region.  It  is 
incumbent on the Security Council and the international 
community to alter the way they deal with Israel. They 
should  see  to  it  that  the  Palestinian  people  have  their 
own  independent  State.  If  peace  is  to  endure  in  the 
region, it will be achieved only by supporting the efforts 
of the State of Palestine to obtain full membership in 
all international organizations. I say that peace will not 
be  achieved  except  through  support  for  the  efforts  of 
the State of Palestine to obtain full membership in all 
international organizations, as it has in UNESCO, and 
through the withdrawal of the Israeli occupation forces 
from  all  occupied  Arab  and  Palestinian  territories, 
including the occupied Syrian Golan and the Lebanese 
Shaba’a Farms.
Mr. Mukerji (India): At the outset, I would like to 
express our appreciation to the President for convening 
this important discussion in the General Assembly on 
the question of Palestine.
We are marking the International Day of Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People.  Let  me  begin,  therefore, 
by  quoting  from  the  message  of  my  Prime  Minister, 
His Excellency Mr. Manmohan Singh, to the friendly 
people of Palestine on this occasion.
24/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
“On  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  I  reaffirm 
India’s  strong  and  steadfast  support  for 
the 
Palestinian  cause.  We  welcome  the  recent  efforts 
of  Palestine  and  Israel,  mediated  by  the  United 
States,  for  resumption  of  direct  peace  talks,  and 
remain  hopeful  that  the  negotiations  will  lead 
to  a  comprehensive  peace  process  for  the  final 
resolution of the conflict within an agreed timeline. 
India supports a negotiated resolution, resulting in 
a sovereign, independent, viable and united State of 
Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital, living 
within secure and recognized borders, side by side 
and at peace with Israel, as endorsed in the Arab 
Peace Initiative, the Quartet road map and relevant 
United Nations Security Council resolutions.
“I also take this opportunity to extend heartiest 
congratulations to the people of Palestine and their 
leadership on obtaining non-member observer State 
status in the United Nations General Assembly last 
year.  India  has  always  played  a  proactive  role  in 
supporting  the  Palestinian  cause  in  multilateral 
forums.  We  sponsored  the  resolution  enhancing 
Palestine’s  status  in  the  General  Assembly  and 
will continue to support Palestine’s bid for full and 
equal membership of the United Nations.
through 
training  centre 
“India  has  also  supported  the  nation-building 
technical  and 
efforts  of  Palestine 
economic assistance, including budgetary support. 
We  are  supporting  the  construction  of  schools 
and  setting  up  an  information  technology  centre 
and  vocational 
in  Palestine. 
Additionally, India contributes $1 million annually 
to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East.  We  are  also 
implementing  development  projects  in  Palestine 
jointly with Brazil and South Africa as partners in 
IBSA. India will continue to support those efforts.
“On  this  important  occasion,  on  behalf  of 
the people of India, I convey our best wishes and 
greetings to the friendly people of Palestine.”
It has been almost a year since the Assembly voted 
to upgrade Palestine’s status in the United Nations to 
that  of  non-Member  observer  State  (resolution  67/19), 
along  with  other  resolutions  that  are  voted  on  every 
year.  While  that  was  an  important  milestone,  the 
aspirations of the Palestinian people and leadership to 
full membership of the United Nations still remain to 
be achieved.
The  resolution  of  the  Palestinian  question  is  a 
prerequisite  for  building  a  sustainable  and  lasting 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  region.  Given  the  fragile 
and  unpredictable  situation  in  the  Middle  East  with 
the ongoing conflict in Syria, there should be no more 
delay  in  addressing  the  Israeli-Palestinian  issue.  The 
situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  has 
been  deteriorating,  due  to  settlement  activities  in  the 
West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  Those  activities  are 
creating  new  realities  on  the  ground,  threatening  the 
very premise of a two-State solution. The blockade of 
Gaza  has  also  had  serious  consequences  for  the  lives 
of  Palestinians.  It  has  adversely  affected  essential 
services,  economic  activities  and 
infrastructure 
development. The Palestinian Authority is also facing 
a severe financial crisis that could erode the significant 
progress it has made in building State institutions.
All  those  issues  must  be  addressed  in  a  timely 
manner  if  a  just  and  durable  peace  in  the  region  is 
to  be  achieved.  While  there  has  been  improvement 
in  restrictions  on  the  West  Bank  and  movement  of 
humanitarian  supplies  and  construction  material  into 
Gaza, we continue to hold that it is necessary for Israel 
to lift the blockade on Gaza and allow the normal and 
unrestricted  movement  of  persons  and  goods  within 
Palestine. We also join others in urging Israel to stop 
settlement activities.
India  has  a  long  history  of  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people.  As  it  has  demonstrated  over  the 
past six decades, including during its memberships in 
the Security Council, India also stands ready to support 
all  measures  that  the  Palestinian  leadership  may  take 
towards political resolution of the final-status issues. In 
conclusion, I would like to reiterate India’s continued 
support for the Palestinian cause.
Mr.  Kommasith 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): My delegation endorses the statement made 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Last Monday, 18 November, in this very Hall, we 
witnessed a historic first vote by the State of Palestine 
in  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the  election  of  a  judge  to  the  Residual  Mechanism  of 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  former 
Yugoslavia  (see  A/68/PV.53),  and  I  congratulate  the 
Palestinian people on that auspicious occasion.
As  many  of  us  have  said  today,  making  progress 
in that direction is a critical issue of global justice and 
13-57987
25/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
a  defining  test  of  this  Organization.  Member  States 
must  therefore  work  further  to  enable  Palestinians  to 
realize their inalienable rights, including the rights of 
return and self-determination, as well as their earnest 
aspirations  to  freedom,  prosperity,  peace  and  justice 
in  an  independent  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  based 
on the pre-1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.
We must acknowledge that the Palestinian people’s 
changed  United  Nations  status  and  right  to  be  a 
recognized State does not alter their firm commitment 
to resolving the conflict through dialogue and peaceful 
means.  We  are  well  aware  of  how  they  have  suffered 
and  struggled  over  the  last  several  decades  without  a 
glimmer  of  hope,  while  the  international  community 
has  been  unable  to  take  decisive  action  at  the  level 
where  it  matters  most.  Over  time,  we  can  see  the 
growing ability of the Palestinian Authority to establish 
the institutional foundations essential for international 
recognition of Palestinian statehood, as endorsed by all 
major international organizations and institutions. We 
commend the Palestinians for that heroic effort, despite 
the serious obstacles and challenges they confront.
The  continued  illegal  settlement  activity  and 
destruction  of  property,  homes  and  businesses  in  the 
occupied territories have not only worsened the already 
critical socioeconomic situation facing the Palestinian 
population, they also constitute a breach of international 
law,  including  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights law, as well as an obstacle to the peace process 
and opportunities for negotiation.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  wishes  to 
see a just, lasting, comprehensive and peaceful solution 
to  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  under  the  relevant 
United Nations resolutions and the Quartet road map, 
which  envisage  a  sovereign,  independent  and  viable 
State  of  Palestine  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
living side by side in peace and security with the Jewish 
State  of  Israel.  We  therefore  strongly  support  the 
renewed engagement of the United States of America, 
supported  by  the  Arab  League  follow-up  committee 
and many world leaders, and call on the parties to live 
up  to  their  commitments,  negotiate  in  good  faith  and 
refrain  from  steps  that  could  jeopardize  negotiations. 
We should give negotiation a chance. Peace comes only 
through dialogue.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  long 
recognized the State of Palestine, and I wish to reaffirm 
its  consistent  support  to  the  Palestinian  people  in 
attaining  the  long-delayed  goal  of  a  viable,  peaceful 
and prosperous State of Palestine that is a full-fledged 
Member of the United Nations. I take this opportunity 
to commend the role played and work done by United 
Nations agencies, especially the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East, to assist millions of Palestinians in need during 
all  these  years  amid  multiple  difficulties.  We  also 
wish the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  every  success  in  its 
noble  endeavour  for  a  peaceful,  just,  comprehensive 
and lasting solution to the question of Palestine.
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke in 
Spanish): My delegation aligns itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  Government  of  Reconciliation  and  National 
Unity  of  Nicaragua  wishes  to  take  the  opportunity 
afforded by this debate on the question of Palestine to 
salute the heroic Palestinian people and their authorities 
on this International Day of Solidarity. We reaffirm our 
solidarity and support for their just struggle to establish 
a sovereign and independent Palestinian State. 
We  find  ourselves  at  this  debate  almost  a  year 
after  the  adoption  of  historic  resolution  67/19,  in 
which,  together  with  the  rest  of  the  international 
community, we renew our solidarity with the cause of 
the Palestinian people and, at the same time, our hopes 
for, and commitment to, the search for a solution to the 
problem  of  Palestine,  which  is  the  core  of  the  Arab-
Israeli conflict, and the need to achieve a just, complete 
and lasting peace.
The greatest desire of the Palestinian people is to 
find peace and to live in harmony with its neighbours 
in a free, independent and viable State. However, that 
cannot be achieved as long as the Israeli occupation and 
its aggression continue and as long as the Palestinian 
people,  who  have  struggled  heroically 
to  resist 
under  very  difficult  conditions,  cannot  redeem  their 
legitimate ancestral rights, recover their occupied land, 
or  experience  the  return  of  refugees,  the  release  of 
prisoners, the lifting of the blockade, and the rights to 
water and to live freely within their own borders.
Nicaragua is concerned about the stalemate in the 
peace negotiations, which has lasted for months. Israel 
continues to construct more settlements in the occupied 
territories,  especially  in  East  Jerusalem.  Putting  an 
end  to  the  construction  of  those  illegal  settlements 
26/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
is  an  indispensable  prerequisite  to  committing  to  the 
negotiations  in  good  faith.  We  demand  a  halt  to  any 
further  construction  of  settlements  in  the  occupied 
territories and to the ethnic cleansing being conducted 
by Israelis.
resolutions.  The 
Israel  must  negotiate  on  the  basis  of  the  various 
United  Nations 
international 
community must redouble its efforts, especially those 
of its permanent member ally in the Security Council, 
so that Israel will put an end to its arbitrary behaviour 
and truly commit itself to negotiate in order to achieve 
a new era of peace and stability in the Middle East.
We  cannot  waste  this  historic  opportunity.  It  is 
enough  to  read  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  (A/68/35),  presented  today,  for  the  entire 
community  of  nations  to  realize  that  the  massive 
violations of human rights and the economic, political, 
social  and  cultural  rights  of  our  Palestinian  brothers 
and sisters are continuing.
Nicaragua  believes  it  is  important  to  adopt  the 
necessary  confidence-building  measures 
to  drive 
forward  effective  negotiations  by  the  parties,  which 
will make it possible to progress towards the ultimate 
achievement  of  a  just  peace  based  on  the  recognition 
and  existence  of  two  free  and  sovereign  States.  Our 
Government  advocates  a  politically  just  solution  to 
the  Palestinian  problem  on  the  basis  of  the  various 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  United  Nations,  especially 
those  establishing  the  right  of  return  of  Palestinian 
refugees and calling for Israel’s withdrawal from Arab 
territories  occupied  in  1967,  in  accordance  with  the 
land-for-peace  principle,  established  at  the  Madrid 
Conference, and the Arab Peace Initiative, which would 
make  it  possible  to  create  a  Palestinian  State  that  is 
independent, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We welcome the release of 104 Palestinian political 
prisoners.  But  we  also  urge  the  release,  as  a  show  of 
goodwill, of the thousands of Palestinian prisoners who 
continue  to  be  incarcerated  by  Israel  in  an  arbitrary 
manner.
Now  more  than  ever  and  after  the  demonstration 
of  support  by  an  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
international community for resolution 67/19, we have 
an  opportunity  to  redress  the  injustice  committed 
against  these  brotherly  people.  Nicaragua,  as  a  newly 
elected  member  of  the  Coordinating  Bureau  of  the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People,  along  with  its  people,  will 
continue  to  support  the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian 
people  as  a  point  of  principle.  Together  with  the 
Committee and the rest of the international community, 
will intensify our efforts to seek a peaceful solution that 
will lead to the creation of a Palestinian State as a way 
of achieving a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
My  delegation  is  a  sponsor  of  all  of  the  draft 
resolutions  (A/68/L.12,  A/68/L.13,  A/68/L.14  and 
A/68/L.15)  to  be  adopted  today  by  the  General 
Assembly,  which  aim  at  finding  a  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine  and  to  a  just  and  lasting  peace 
in the Middle East. We call upon members to join the 
initiative to declare 2014 as the year of solidarity with 
Palestine, which should lead to Palestine’s entry as the 
194th State Member of the Organization.
Mr.  Mamabolo  (South  Africa):  A  few  days  from 
today,  on  29  November,  we  will  join  the  Palestinian 
people  in  celebrating  the  first  anniversary  of  their 
statehood.  Speaking  on  the  day  of  the  acceptance 
of  Palestine  as  a  non-member  observer  State  of  the 
Assembly  last  year  (see  A/67/PV.45),  we  expressed 
our  disappointment  that  the  Palestinian  people  were 
not  granted  full  membership  in  the  Organization,  as 
they  so  deserved.  Knowing  full  well  the  constraints 
faced by the people of Palestine and the inaction of the 
Security Council on that important matter, we recorded 
that  historic  achievement  as  a  positive  step  towards 
the full implementation of the much-awaited two-State 
solution. Almost a year from that momentous occasion, 
the status of Palestine has not changed.
The  negotiations  between  the  two  parties  are 
ongoing,  but  the  environment  within  which  they  are 
being held is far from being conducive. The reasons for 
the stalemate in the negotiations are well known. They 
include the increasing expansion of old and the building 
of new settlements, the obliteration of Palestinian homes, 
the blockade of Gaza; attacks on Palestinian holy sites, 
the  limitation  of  movement,  and  the  confiscation  of 
land. The settlement construction activities are perhaps 
the most deleterious act of aggression, as they result in 
the transfer of the Israeli population into the occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  thereby  limiting  or  thwarting 
the possibility of creating two contiguous States. It is 
said that these activities have also led to the resignation 
of  the  Palestinian  negotiation  team  as  they  feel  that 
these  irresponsible  activities  undermine  the  spirit  of 
negotiations.
13-57987
27/29
A/68/PV.57 
25/11/2013
We  all  know  that  these  egregious  activities  are  a 
violation of article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention 
and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council. 
Amazingly,  all  of  this  happens  in  full  view  of  the 
mighty Security Council, but it continues to do nothing 
about the situation. If Israel were negotiating in good 
faith,  it  would  have  stopped  its  illegal  practices  and 
allowed a positive spirit to prevail during this critical 
time. It is the responsibility of those who protect and 
have  influence  over  Israel  to  use  their  leverage  over 
the Israelis to abandon their obstructive behaviour and 
work towards a peaceful and lasting solution. Clearly, 
Israel is emboldened by the fact that it has influential 
partners who have the wherewithal to protect it, even as 
it plunges the region into even deeper chaos
Having said that, however, we welcome the positive 
role  played  by  such  parties  as  the  United  States,  the 
European Union, the Quartet and the United Nations in 
making the negotiations a possibility. We hope that they 
will be able to help the parties realize their noble goals 
and finally bring to a conclusion the protracted peace 
process in the Middle East.
South  Africa  stresses  the  urgent  need  for  Israel 
to lift the illegal blockade on Gaza, which entered its 
seventh year in June. The blockade continues to worsen 
the  already  dire  socioeconomic  and  humanitarian 
situation in Gaza. We are disappointed that the measures 
that  were  enacted  by  the  Israeli  Government  in  order 
to  ease  the  implementation  of  the  economic  initiative 
for Palestine, including approval for the importation of 
greater quantities of construction materials and water 
into Gaza, have now been suspended. We were hopeful 
that  those  measures  would  continue  to  the  revival 
of  Gaza,  which  has  suffered  a  great  deal  due  to  the 
blockade, which continues to frustrate the lives of its 
inhabitants and has contributed directly to the increase 
in  unemployment  and  poverty.  All  of  our  hopes  have 
once again been dashed.
In conclusion, we welcome the decision to proclaim 
2014  the  International  Year  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People.  We  hope  that  the  international 
community  will  exert  all  necessary  efforts  in  2014 
to  finally  ensure  the  implementation  of  the  two-State 
solution  and  guarantee  the  inalienable  right  of  the 
Palestinian people to self-determination. South Africa 
stands ready to contribute robustly to that effort.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item for this meeting.
Several representatives have requested to take the 
floor in exercise of the right of reply. I remind them that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be  made  by 
representatives from their seats.
Mr.  Roet  (Israel):  Today  we  heard  a  number  of 
Arab  delegations  liberally  spreading  condemnation 
and accusations. It would appear that those delegations 
are attempting to trample on the democratic process in 
the  General  Assembly  in  the  same  way  they  trample 
on the freedom of their own people. One would think 
that their efforts would be better spent improving the 
human rights situation in their own backyards. These 
cynical  attacks  undermine  the  professional  nature  of 
this  forum.  It  is  unfortunate  that  certain  delegations 
insist  on  politicizing  and  monopolizing  the  valuable 
time of this body, as they have done throughout most 
of this discussion.
Many  have  used  this  forum  to  launch  a  range 
of  baseless  accusations  against  my  country,  acting 
as  cheerleaders  for  a  Palestinian  cause  and  thereby 
distancing  us  from  peace  instead  of  assisting  us  in 
reaching it. It is truly absurd to hear some of the world’s 
most  oppressive  tyrannies  lecture  the  Middle  East’s 
only  true  democracy  about  human  rights.  One  has  to 
wonder  what  rights  these  representatives  might  be 
referring to. Perhaps they mean religious rights, such as 
those  exercised  by  Libya,  whose  representative  spoke 
today.
Let me take the example of Libya. It is a tragedy 
that  after  all  of  the  international  efforts  to  better  the 
lives of the Libyan people and to free them from one of 
the world’s worst dictators, its representative chose to 
use the same rhetoric and language as in Al-Qadhafi’s 
time,  calling  my  country  a  racist  Zionist  movement 
and calling people and settlements, whether one likes 
them or not, cancerous. If Libyans truly care about the 
situation, I would advise them that a great deal of the 
weapons being wielded in my country and hampering 
the  peace  process  are  coming  from  Libya.  Perhaps 
the  Libyan  authorities  would  be  better  off,  instead  of 
lecturing Israel, taking care of their own people. For the 
sake of the Israeli and Palestinian cause, perhaps they 
could improve their border control.
One-sided, dogmatic and cheap propaganda is not 
productive. Name-calling does not lead us towards real 
peace, but takes us farther away.
28/29 
13-57987
25/11/2013 
A/68/PV.57
A  few  countries  congratulated  the  Palestinian 
delegation  on  having  voted  in  the  election  for  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia.  I 
would  like  to  remind  representatives  that  that  vote 
has  nothing  to  do  with  attaining  a  Palestinian  State. 
A  Palestinian  State  can  be  achieved  by  negotiation. 
The road to peace, for which we all pray, goes through 
Ramallah and Jerusalem, and not via such discussions 
as heard here.
I would not like to use the whole 10 minutes of time 
that I am allocated, but simply refer to the member of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  who  spoke  here. 
We  heard  many  representatives  of  NAM  criticize 
Israel today. I would like to point out that these same 
representatives chose to ignore the crimes of the State 
that is the Chair of NAM, Iran. Some countries spoke of 
their honour in agreeing to the statement delivered by 
the representative of Iran. Iran is actively supporting a 
murderous  regime  in  Damascus  and  at  the  same  time 
leading the chorus of attack in this Hall against Israel. 
The rhetorical hypocrisy of NAM must stop. Countries 
that care about the peace process should assist not only 
Israel  but  primarily  the  Palestinians  in  making  the 
right,  proud  and  courageous  choice  of  negotiating  on 
the ground instead of in the General Assembly.
Mr.  Hamed  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  did  not  wish  to  take  the  floor  at  this  late 
hour.  However,  the  lies  and  allegations  submitted  by 
the representative of the Israeli occupation authorities 
deserve  a  reply,  albeit  a  very  brief  one.  Israel,  whose 
representative boasted of its human rights record, is the 
last State — and I reaffirm and underscore, the very last 
State — that has the right to invoke human rights, given 
the tremendous and countless human rights violations 
it has committed since 1948 in the occupied Palestinian 
territories, the occupied Golan and Lebanon.
The  representative  of 
the  Israeli  occupation 
authority  said  that  Israel  helps  the  Syrian  people.  At 
first  I  thought  that  I  had  misheard,  but  it  seems  that 
what  I  heard  was  true.  If  anything,  it  shows  that  the 
representative  of  Israel  is  hallucinating  wildly.  The 
only assistance provided by Israel is to armed terrorist 
groups in the disengagement area in the occupied Syrian 
Golan.  The  Israeli  representative  acknowledged  that 
in  his  statement  today.  Is  such  assistance  to  terrorist 
groups, including Al-Qaida affiliates, not a violation of 
international law and the disengagement agreement? It 
endangers the United Nations Disengagement Observer 
Force  (UNDOF)  in  the  occupied  Golan.  That  is 
precisely what happened when armed groups, assisted 
by the occupying Power, received medical treatment in 
Israeli hospitals and the staff and premises of UNDOF 
were repeatedly kidnapped or attacked by these armed 
groups.
Mr. Taguri (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): I thank you, 
Sir, for giving me the floor to speak in exercise of my 
right to reply. Like the representative who spoke before 
me, I did not want to take the floor and further postpone 
the adjournment of this meeting, but given what I have 
heard I feel forced to respond.
What  we  and  other  Arab  delegations  have  said 
regarding  violations  of  human  rights  by  Israel  is  not 
something that we invented. It is a reality documented 
by numerous reports of human rights entities and bodies 
and international organizations. We are here to consider 
the Palestinian issue and the reports prepared by various 
international  bodies  dealing  with 
the  Palestinian 
question. All reaffirm exactly what has been said by the 
Arab  States  regarding  settlement  policies,  Palestinian 
prisoners  and  detainees,  violations  of  human  rights, 
violations  of  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  and 
the  blockade  of  Gaza.  All  of  those  facts  have  been 
documented and cannot be denied. They are a simple 
reality, regardless of anything that might be said to the 
contrary, especially by the Israeli representative.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work  of  the 
Second  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that  at  its 
2nd  plenary  meeting,  on  20  September,  the  General 
Assembly approved the recommendation of the General 
Committee that the Second Committee should complete 
its work by Friday, 29 November. However, I have been 
informed by the Chair of the Second Committee that the 
Committee requests an extension of its work to Friday, 
6  December,  as  such  an  extension  would  facilitate 
reaching  consensus  on  the  pending  draft  resolutions 
before the Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
extend the work of the Second Committee until Friday, 
6 December?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
13-57987
29/29
