United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
19th plenary meeting
Saturday, 28 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.19
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, Prime Minister and 
Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, M.P., and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Christie (Bahamas): Permit me to congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the Assembly. 
As a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), 
the Bahamas takes special pride in the election of one 
of our region’s own  — the third such person to be so 
elected over the years. You may be assured of our full 
support  as  you  attend  to  the  duties  of  the  high  office 
to which you have been elected and for which you are, 
if  I  may  say  so,  superbly  qualified.  We  consider  it  a 
privilege to extend Ambassador Paulette Bethel to your 
office as Chef de Cabinet, and we wish her well as well.
Permit  me  also  to  express  my  condolences  and 
those  of  the  Bahamas  to  the  President  and  people  of 
Kenya following the tragic attack on innocent civilians 
in Nairobi just last week.
This  year  we  in  the  Bahamas  are  celebrating 
our  fortieth  year  of  independence.  It  is  appropriate, 
therefore, that we should pause today and look back to 
1973, when our nation was founded and our membership 
in the United Nations began. In addressing the General 
Assembly  for  the  first  time  on  1  October  1973,  our 
then  Prime  Minister,  Sir  Lynden  Pindling,  spoke  of 
our  journey  from  the  dehumanizing  experiences  of 
slavery and colonialism to the liberating achievements 
of freedom, majority rule and independence. He spoke, 
too,  of  the  “perpetual  interdependence  of  the  big  and 
the small,” and the fervent wish of the Bahamian people 
to be neither “dominated nor coerced.” He also had this 
to say:
“We  have  the  means  to  give  new  hope  to 
mankind,  to  create  a  stable  international  order 
dominated  by  total  and  absolute  political  and 
economic self-determination and human and moral 
values which make human beings paramount, not 
things or abstractions.” (A/PV.2135, para. 28)
Sir  Lynden’s  call  for  us  to  be  faithful  to  the 
responsibilities of our nationhood and world citizenship 
is as relevant and compelling today as it was when we 
were welcomed into the family of the United Nations 
40  years  ago.  As  the  present  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Bahamas, I have therefore come here today, on behalf 
of the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, to 
renew our pledge to play our part to help make our planet 
the  place  of  peace  and  stability  and  of  collaborative 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48809 (E)
*1348809*
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
endeavour and mutual support that it was intended to 
be, and must be, for the good of all humankind.
But we need to ensure that such pledges are not just 
so many catchy phrases. We need to not only talk the talk 
but walk the walk. We in the Bahamas are determined 
to  do  just  that.  That  is  why,  to  cite  one  very  recent 
example, my Minister of Social Development, Melanie 
Griffin,  on  Tuesday  of  this  week  here  in  New  York, 
signed  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights 
of Persons with Disabilites on behalf of the Bahamas. 
This is an important step forward that we have taken, 
marrying our rhetoric to our actions and synching our 
domestic agenda with our international obligations. We 
intend to ratify the Convention in the shortest possible 
time, and later this year we will introduce the necessary 
legislation in our Parliament to protect the rights of the 
disabled and to give full effect to our obligations under 
the Convention. The end to discrimination against the 
disabled in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas is now 
clearly in sight. Indeed, it is now imminent.
I  would  also  submit  today  that  we  are  all  of  us 
under  a  moral  obligation  to  ensure  that  the  policies 
and aspirational goals that the General Assembly sets 
for  itself,  and  to  which  all  Member  States  subscribe, 
are  in  fact  reflected  in  the  way  that  we  govern  our 
respective nations internally and, to no less a degree, 
in the way that we interact with each other as Member 
States in the international community. For example, we 
cannot,  on  the  one  hand,  proclaim  that  we  believe  in 
free trade, then implement policies that inevitably bring 
about  the  destruction  of  agriculture  as  we  know  it  in 
the Caribbean, and, in response to the resulting moral 
outcry, simply shrug our shoulders and piously lament 
that the old order changeth.
We have to become more conscious of the practical 
outcomes  of  what  we  do.  Too  often,  in  the  headlong 
rush  for  change,  we  damage  the  vulnerable  and  the 
weak.  We  then  make  pledges  to  help  but  seldom  live 
up  to  those  pledges  in  any  sustained  way.  We  simply 
cannot build a credible new world order on the basis of 
such practices. They run completely counter to our lofty 
pronouncements about the need for interconnectedness 
and mutual support in the pursuit of economic progress 
for all the nations of the world, be they large or small, 
developed or developing.
We  see 
the  same  dynamic  at  work 
the 
ongoing  economic  aggression  of  many  of  the  more 
developed  countries  against  small,  offshore  financial 
in 
service-based  economies,  especially  in  the  Caribbean 
region of which the Bahamas is a part. Some have used 
their  power,  either  unilaterally  or  in  small  groups  of 
high-powered nations, to impose their will, arguing that 
there is something fundamentally immoral, something 
intrinsically sinister, about the accumulation of wealth 
in offshore jurisdictions.
We  reject  that  premise  and  we  criticize  in  the 
strongest possible terms the efforts of some to maim and 
cripple,  if  not  destroy,  the  offshore  economies  within 
our  region.  Ironically, 
the  anti-money-laundering, 
anti-terrorism  funding  and  anti-criminal  regulatory 
regimes of many of our countries are far more robust and 
demonstrably far more effective than the corresponding 
regulatory regimes in many of the same countries that 
are leading the fight against us.
We firmly believe that offshore financial services 
can be responsibly operated and regulated. We believe 
that the sector represents true tax competition and, in 
the  great  majority  of  cases,  that  it  affords  an  honest 
opportunity  for  families  and  individuals  alike  to 
protect  their  privacy  while  accumulating  lawfully 
earned  capital  for  themselves  and  future  generations. 
Moreover,  the  evidence  is  overwhelming  that  most  of 
the  investment  of  that  offshore  wealth  takes  place  in 
and generally benefits the developed world.
Unilateralism  and  diplomacy  by  coercion  are  not 
the  way  the  world  should  be  dealing  with  that  issue. 
Instead,  we  need  to  challenge  the  United  Nations  to 
take  the  lead  in  developing  and  refining  multilateral 
global mechanisms for the governance of the offshore 
financial services sector — mechanisms that will meet 
the  legitimate  demands  of  the  developed  world  for 
the  protection  of  their  fiscal  systems  and  their  need 
for  greater  security,  while  at  the  same  time  allowing 
offshore  financial-service  economies  to  continue  to 
grow in an orderly and properly regulated way.
them  for 
that  depend  upon 
Let  us  not  forget  that  the  destruction  of  those 
offshore  financial-service  economies  will  destabilize 
the  countries 
their 
livelihood.  To  destroy  that  sector  in  the  Caribbean 
would  effectively  cause  tens  of  thousands  of  newly 
empowered  middle-class  citizens  to  slip  back  into 
poverty  or  to  migrate  to  the  developed  world.  The 
middle  class  of  which  I  speak  constitutes  the  anchor 
of social stability for the countries of our region. If it 
is  taken  away,  social  destabilization  will  emerge  as  a 
risk  of  the  most  ominous  kind.  And  should  that  risk 
2/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
materialize,  the  developed  world  may  well  end  up 
finding that it has solved one problem only by creating 
an infinitely bigger one for itself.
The need for greater multilateralism is also evident 
in many of the other problems confronting the Bahamas 
and our region. A matter of the highest national priority 
for us revolves around our ongoing problem with illegal 
migration to our shores. We in the Bahamas suffer from 
the illegal migration of tens of thousands of desperate 
people  from  our  sister  Caribbean  Community  State 
of  Haiti  —  an  exodus  undeniably  driven  by  crushing 
poverty.
We also have a problem with illegal migration from 
other countries in the Caribbean, albeit to a much lesser 
extent. Of special note in that regard are migrants from 
Cuba.  We  believe  that  the  policies  rooted  in  the  Cold 
War that largely account for that migration ought to be 
brought into alignment with the realities of the modern 
era.
The  Bahamas, 
like 
Our  archipelagic  nation,  though  comparatively 
small  in  population,  covers  a  vast  area.  With  our 
hundreds  of  islands,  the  opportunities  for  illegal 
migration are greatly multiplied. At a time when it is 
imperative  that  we  invest  in  the  education  and  health 
and future of our people, we are forced instead to devote 
an ever-growing share of our resources to the problems 
associated with illegal migration.
the 
the  world, 
understandably  places  a  great  deal  of  emphasis  on 
the human rights of migrants, but we also believe that 
there  must  be  similar  concerns  for  the  ill-effects  on 
migrant-receiving  States  such  as  ours.  In  particular, 
we are concerned about the increasingly unsustainable 
costs that are being incurred and the resulting erosion 
in the quality of life for the citizenry of the Bahamas. 
Our  country,  the  Commonwealth  of  the  Bahamas, 
simply  does  not  have  the  financial  resources  and 
infrastructural  capacity,  much  less  the  psychological 
stamina, to endure that dilemma indefinitely.
rest  of 
That  should  also  remind  us  of  the  economic 
disparities within our region and of the need to intensify 
global  efforts  to  eliminate  poverty  and  structural 
imbalances  that  impede  economic  growth  within 
certain  segments  and  sections  of  the  Caribbean.  For 
as long as those disparities persist, illegal immigration 
to the shores of countries that are comparatively more 
prosperous will continue to grow.
Another  problem  that  is  of  special  concern  to  us 
is  the  continuing  influx  of  guns  and  the  increase  in 
gun-related  criminality,  not  only  in  the  Bahamas  but 
throughout  the  region.  As  a  world  community,  there 
is, I am convinced, a great deal more that we can and 
should be doing to fight that common menace.
The  Bahamas  has  this  year  signed  the  Arms 
Trade  Treaty,  and  we  encourage  all  States  that  have 
not  already  done  so  to  sign  the  Treaty  as  well.  And 
we implore those countries that produce the guns that 
end up taking innocent lives and causing terror in our 
communities to become more proactive in controlling 
the  export  of  guns.  We  implore  them  to  step  up  the 
policing of their own borders against arms traffickers.
We therefore call for more robust surveillance and 
reconnaissance  measures  to  be  instituted.  We  already 
have  the  experience  of  joint  anti-drug  operational 
activities with the United States of America. However, 
more resources ought to be employed in a region-wide 
effort to fight crime. In particular, we call for a massive 
increase  in  joint  tactical  operations  so  that  more  air 
and  maritime  assets  can  be  consistently  deployed 
and  the  thousands  of  square  miles  that  constitute  the 
territorial  waters  of  Caribbean  States  can  be  more 
effectively  patrolled.  We  in  the  Bahamas  stand  ready 
to  play  our  part  in  those  joint  efforts,  without  which 
the war on arms trafficking, human smuggling and the 
transshipment  of  illicit  drugs  will  never  produce  the 
victory we all strive for.
In  a  recent  talk  that  I  gave  to  a  meeting  of  the 
International Monetary Fund that the Bahamas hosted 
for the region, I made the point that we must all seek 
to  mitigate  the  vulnerabilities  of  our  small  States  in 
the  CARICOM  region.  Of  particular  concern  in  that 
regard  is  the  fact  that  we  have  as  yet  been  unable  to 
disabuse  the  international  financial  organizations  of 
their conviction that gross domestic product per capita 
is by itself an accurate measure of the wealth of a nation 
or of its state of development.
The  result  of  the  continuing  adherence  to  that 
dogma  and  the  policies  that  have  flowed  from  it  is 
that  the  international  financial  assistance  needs  of 
countries in our region are being erroneously assessed 
and misunderstood. I therefore again join all of those 
calling  for  a  revamping  of  the  criteria  in  that  regard 
so  that  the  true  financial  assistance  and  development 
needs  of  developing  countries  can  be  evaluated  in  a 
fairer and more balanced and pragmatic way.
13-48809
3/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
Another  significant  vulnerability  for  my  country 
concerns  the  environment  and  the  need  to  address 
comprehensively issues of climate change. The Bahamas 
is surrounded by the sea and is low-lying. Indeed, 80 per 
cent of the land mass of the Bahamas is less than five 
feet above sea level. The implications of climate change 
and associated rises in sea level are therefore obvious 
for my country and its people. I would submit that the 
world, particularly the developed world, has a stake in 
resolving those issues, for while countries such as ours 
may be the victims of climate change, we are not among 
the  countries  that  are,  in  fact,  largely  responsible  for 
the climate change that threatens our future and that of 
the planet.
In the Bahamas, we are waging our own battles. We 
are putting our fiscal house in order. We are introducing 
innovative tools to fight crime. We are training a new 
generation for twenty-first century jobs. We are creating 
new partnerships to tackle our most pressing problems. 
We  are  aggressively  pursuing  renewable  energy.  We 
are  revamping  and  modernizing  our  structure  of 
governance to make it more responsive to the needs of 
the  twenty-first  century.  And  by  the  increased  use  of 
the  referendum  machinery,  we  are  demonstrating  our 
commitment to a deepening of our democracy. 
We are a small country with strong convictions and 
big  ideas.  But  as  we  look  beyond  the  borders  of  our 
nation and of the region to gaze upon the global scene, 
we see much eloquence and many handshakes and the 
ceremonial signing of one treaty after another. Rarely, 
however,  do  we  see  concrete  steps  or  enforcement 
mechanisms with teeth. Ringing declarations have been 
made from Rio to Copenhagen and beyond, and we are 
constantly  being  challenged  by  our  own  citizens  to 
demonstrate to them that real and measurable progress 
is being achieved at the global level.
We need to see more courage, more leadership, more 
sustained  action  on  the  global  stage.  So  as  the  leader 
of a small but proud nation, I take the opportunity to 
say to the big and powerful nations: Find your courage 
because the hour grows late.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of 
Finance of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas for the 
statement he has just made. 
Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, Prime Minister and 
Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Royal Highness Prince Haji 
Al-Muhtadee Billah, Crown Prince of  
Brunei Darussalam
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam.
His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee 
Billah, Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee  Billah, 
Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee  Billah 
(Brunei 
Darussalam): On behalf of His Majesty the Sultan and 
the people of Brunei Darussalam, I wish to congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  We  thank  our 
former President, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for his efforts and 
contributions over the past year.
Let me begin by expressing our sincere condolences 
to the Government and the people of Kenya and to the 
families of the victims of the terrorist attack. Such an 
act deserves our condemnation. Our deepest sympathies 
also  go  to  those  affected  by  the  recent  earthquake  in 
Pakistan. 
Thirteen  years  ago  before  the  Assembly,  our 
leaders  made  a  promise  to  our  peoples  to  fulfil  their 
hopes and expectations for a better life. This is why we 
see  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  as  a 
highly  important  global  partnership.  It  has  shown  us 
that progress can be made if we work together locally, 
regionally and internationally. I would therefore like to 
place  on  record  our  expression  of  appreciation  to  our 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  the  support  and  commitment 
provided by the United Nations to realize that historic 
initiative.
We  are  now  approaching  the  end  of  the  15-year 
period.  Like  many  other  nations,  Brunei  Darussalam 
has  been  able  to  learn  much  from  its  experiences  in 
implementing  the  MDGs.  We  understand  the  high 
expectations  for  all  to  do  well.  However,  we  need  to 
consider  the  problems  that  some  Member  States  are 
struggling  with.  Those  include  limitations  to  natural 
resources,  political  conflict,  socioeconomic  problems 
and natural disasters. That is why this year’s theme is 
so  appropriate.  It  is  focused  on  setting  the  stage.  For 
4/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
us  in  Brunei  Darussalam,  it  means  having  a  national 
vision — Brunei Vision 2035 — that clearly provides 
direction towards attaining a dynamic and sustainable 
economy in the interests of our people.
innovation  and  creating  better 
In  line  with  the  Vision,  we  place  great  emphasis 
on helping our younger generation realize their hopes. 
We  have  done  this  by  providing  quality  education, 
encouraging 
job 
opportunities. We also do what we can to assist fellow 
developing countries, either bilaterally or in partnership 
with  other  countries  and  international  organizations, 
in human resource development, offering scholarships 
to  study  in  Brunei  Darussalam  and  training  under 
community outreach programmes within the region. We 
hope that the people-to-people approach will promote 
cultural exchanges and understanding.
At  the  same  time,  our  regional  work  has  been 
strongly  influenced  by  other  Member  States’  efforts 
to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Within  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), we have an agreed 
plan to achieve an ASEAN community by 2015. Brunei 
Darussalam,  as  this  year’s  ASEAN  Chairman,  has 
chosen  the  theme  “Our  people,  our  future  together”. 
It signifies our people’s role in ASEAN’s community-
building efforts. In addition, we have also encouraged 
our  member  States  to  start  working  on  an  ASEAN 
plan  beyond  2015,  to  further  strengthen  our  mission 
in  promoting  peace,  stability  and  prosperity.  We  will 
also continue to work together to strategically position 
ASEAN in the wider region and the world at large. 
In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  that  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  accepted  our  invitation  to 
come  to  Brunei  Darussalam  for  the  fifth  ASEAN-
United  Nations  Summit.  We  look  forward  to  sharing 
our views and experiences with him, and hope that will 
strengthen  cooperation  between  our  Association  and 
the United Nations.
We  are  also  encouraged  by  the  recommendations 
put forward in the recent report of the High-level Panel 
of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Agenda  on  how 
we can better assist our people in their daily lives by 
providing  food  security  and  quality  education  and 
eradicating extreme poverty. Overall, the MDGs have 
offered us many lessons indeed, and now it is time for 
all of us to move forward. Regardless of the statistics 
of who has achieved the goals and who has not, we feel 
that much has been attained through the very concept of 
the MDGs. The Goals have opened up opportunities to 
every Member to develop in its own way and to involve 
its people in that development, even beyond 2015. 
Unfortunately, the options open to some people are 
severely limited. That is so when the basic, fundamental 
right  of  self-determination  has  been  denied.  We  refer 
particularly  to  the  people  of  Palestine,  whom  we 
believe can attest to that. Their legitimate struggle for 
a  homeland  of  their  own  remains  unresolved.  Hence, 
we support the calls of the international community for 
intensified  efforts  towards  realizing  this  basic  right, 
which we take for granted today.
The  date  of  29  November  2012  was  indeed  a 
memorable day in the history of Palestine, when it was 
accorded  observer  State  status  in  the  United  Nations 
(see  A/67/PV.44).  I  would  like  once  again  to  express 
our support for Palestine’s full membership and for its 
people’s  legitimate  struggle  to  exercise  their  right  to 
their own independent and sovereign State.
The worsening situation in Syria continues to be of 
serious concern. We join the international community 
in  condemning  the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  which 
has  caused  the  loss  of  lives  in  that  country.  More 
importantly,  we  support  all  efforts,  particularly  those 
of the United Nations, to find a peaceful solution to the 
crisis.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  United  States-
Russia  framework  agreement  for  the  elimination  of 
Syrian  chemical  weapons  and  the  recent  adoption  of 
Security Council resolution 2118 (2013) on Syria.
Before  I  conclude,  we  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  and  all  his  staff,  as  well  as  the 
United  Nations  Volunteers,  for  their  hard  work.  We 
highly respect the peacekeepers for the sacrifices they 
have  made  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and stability. We hope that our efforts within various 
United Nations agencies and bodies will lead us to the 
future that we all want.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam 
for the statement he has just made.
His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee 
Billah, Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith,  Vice  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic. 
13-48809
5/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
Mr. Sisoulith (Lao People’s Democratic Republic) 
(spoke in Lao; English text provided by the delegation): 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, I sincerely congratulate you, Sir, 
on your election as President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. I would like to assure you of 
our  full  support  and  cooperation  in  discharging  your 
noble  duty.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić for his successful completion of his mandate as 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session. 
The  Government  of  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic offers its condolences to the Government and 
people  of  Kenya  on  the  loss  of  life  as  a  result  of  the 
terrorist  attacks  last  week  in  Nairobi,  and  I  join  the 
international community in condemning that inhumane 
act.
The  year  2013  marks  a  new  turning  point  in 
promoting  international  cooperation  for  development 
and in addressing global poverty. At the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  held 
in 
Brazil in 2012, world leaders initiated an international 
consultative  process  to  chart  a  vision  and  concrete 
action  for  enhancing  sustainable  development  in  the 
post-2015  era.  This  clearly  demonstrates  that  poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development  remain  our 
overriding priorities. 
In  recent  decades,  despite  the  tremendous  efforts 
of  the  international  community  to  achieve  poverty 
eradication  and  development  targets,  1.2  billion  poor 
people — 22 per cent of the world population — still 
live in poverty. In addition, the environment continues 
to be threatened and damaged, which has led to climate 
imbalance  and  the  frequent  recurrence  of  natural 
disasters  that  were  rarely  seen  in  the  past.  Moreover, 
political and social unrest and armed conflicts continue 
to rage in different parts of the world with no sign of 
imminent resolution. Likewise, the global and regional 
economic  and  financial  crisis  has  intensified,  with 
long-term  effects  on  developing  countries,  especially 
least developed countries.
These  situations  in  the  development,  political, 
socioeconomic  and  environmental  spheres  continue 
to  obstruct  and  impede  all  nations  from  attaining 
the  sustainable  development  goals, 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Against that 
backdrop,  it  is  more  crucial  now  than  ever  before  for 
the international community to redouble its efforts to 
including 
strengthen  development  cooperation  based  on  sincere 
and  mutual  assistance  for  the  benefit  of  all  and  for  a 
secure world. As the world today becomes increasingly 
interdependent,  no  single  country  can  thrive  and 
survive without the engagement and cooperation of the 
international community. 
In  that  context,  global  institutions  such  as  the 
United  Nations  have  an  important  duty  to  advocate 
on  behalf  of  international  development  cooperation. 
I  commend  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
tireless efforts in promoting international cooperation, 
including  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations throughout the world, in a complex and 
challenging global environment.
A nation’s political stability and security are vital 
factors  for  enabling  an  environment  and  conditions 
conducive 
to  advancing  sustainable  development. 
However, many regions of the world are experiencing 
social unrest, political strife and military confrontation, 
which pose a major threat to global and regional peace 
and  security.  In  that  regard,  we  share  the  common 
concern over the deteriorating situation in the Middle 
East,  which  has  lasted  for  years  now.  We  call  on  all 
parties  concerned  to  work  together  and  to  find  a 
peaceful solution in order to save the lives of innocent 
people.  In  that  spirit,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  welcomes  the  agreement  reached  by  Russia 
and the United States on Syria’s chemical weapons. 
The  international  community  must  devote  urgent 
attention  to  the  issue  of  Palestine  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle  of  creating  the  two  independent  States  of 
Palestine  and  Israel  living  side  by  side  in  peace.  In 
that  regard,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
commends the efforts of Israel and Palestine to resume 
peace negotiations, which mark an important milestone 
for the promotion of peace in that region. 
The  unilateral  embargo  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba, 
an  independent  State,  is  unjust  and  contrary  to 
international law, and has a severe negative impact on 
the lives of the peace-loving Cuban people. Therefore, 
it is now time to put an end to the embargo.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic has always 
attached  great  importance  to  creating  a  peaceful 
environment  and  to  safeguarding  political  stability  in 
the  interest  of  national  development,  with  a  view  to 
graduating from least-developed-country status. To that 
end,  the  Lao  Government  has  made  the  utmost  effort 
to  pursue  a  consistent  foreign  policy  and  to  promote 
6/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
international cooperation at all levels. We continue to 
fulfil  our  international  obligations  to  maintain  peace 
and to promote the rule of law attentively. 
In  this  regard,  the  Lao  Government  has  mapped 
out a policy for governing the State by the rule of law 
and  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the  fundamental 
rights of people of all backgrounds. The Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic  is  party  to  many  international 
human  rights  instruments.  We  have  enacted  and 
amended a national law on human rights, including the 
rights of women and children.
To continue fulfilling its international obligations, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  presented 
its candidatures for membership of the Human Rights 
Council, for the term of 2016-2018, and of the Executive 
Board of the United Nations Development Programme/
United Nations Population Fund/United Nations Office 
for  Project  Services  for  2016-2018.  We  hope  that  the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  will  be  given  an 
opportunity to work with the international community 
within the aforementioned frameworks.
At the regional level, the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  has  played  an  active  part  in  the  process  of 
community-building  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  which  consists  of  three 
pillars: the political-security community, the economic 
community  and  the  sociocultural  community.  We 
believe  that  the  political  and  economic  strength  of 
the  ASEAN  community  will  form  a  solid  ground  for 
regional  cooperation, 
the 
maintenance  and  promotion  of  peace,  security  and 
development in the region and the world at large.
thereby  contributing 
to 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  played  an 
important role as Chair of the framework of cooperation 
between the continents of Asia and Europe — the Asia-
Europe  Meeting  (ASEM)  —  from  2010  to  2012,  and 
was greatly honoured to host the ninth ASEM Summit 
on  5  and  6  November  in  Vientiane,  under  the  theme 
“Friends for peace, partners for prosperity”, which was 
successfully  concluded.  At  the  Summit,  leaders  from 
the two continents had a constructive exchange of views 
on the ways and means to promote peace and enhance 
development  cooperation  in  their  respective  regions 
for the benefits of the peoples of Asia and Europe, as 
well as to ensure their legitimate rights to live in peace 
and to improve their well-being. The Lao Government 
was proud to have been given the opportunity to fulfil 
that  important  obligation,  and  I  take  this  opportunity 
to express my deep gratitude to all friendly countries 
and the international community for their support and 
assistance  to  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
which led to the successful outcome of the Summit.
Despite various achievements in its socioeconomic 
development, as both a least developed and a landlocked 
country the Lao People’s Democratic Republic remains 
vulnerable and continues to face numerous challenges 
in  its  development  and  poverty-reduction  efforts,  as 
clearly  reflected  in  the  recent  third  national  MDG 
progress report, issued early this month. If it is to achieve 
all the MDGs, the country must continue to overcome 
daunting challenges, such as child malnutrition, gender 
inequality in education and the impact of unexploded 
ordnance  contamination.  Nevertheless, 
the  Lao 
Government will continue to lead its people in moving 
ahead  together  with  the  international  community  in 
tackling  numerous  challenges  in  order  to  achieve  the 
MDGs.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is  among 
those countries most affected by cluster munitions and 
unexploded  ordnance,  which  continue  to  pose  major 
constraints  to  national  socioeconomic  development 
and poverty reduction. In that regard, the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic calls on all countries to consider 
acceding to the Convention on Cluster Munitions with 
a view to ensuring a total ban on those weapons and to 
helping to address the impact of cluster munitions.
In 2014, the group of landlocked developing countries 
(LLDCs) will hold a 10-year Review Conference on the 
Implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action to 
address  the  particular  problems  and  special  needs  of 
the LLDCs. Adressing the specific problems of LLDCs 
has  become  a  regional  and  international  obligation. 
Regardless of their development level, these countries 
will not be able to address the impacts of their landlocked 
condition without international cooperation, especially 
from transit countries and development partners.
In  that  context,  the  2014  Review  Conference  will 
be  of  great  importance  not  only  for  the  LLDCs,  but 
also for all development partners. The Conference will 
provide  an  excellent  opportunity  for  the  international 
community  to  identify  the  emerging  challenges  and 
engage  in  new  cooperation  aimed  at  addressing  the 
impact  of  the  landlocked  status  faced  by  the  LLDCs. 
We have high hopes and expectations for the outcome 
of  the  Conference,  which  could  adopt  a  new  policy 
direction  and  more  concrete  measures  reflecting  the 
13-48809
7/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
current development environment. This could form the 
basis for addressing the specific problems faced by the 
LLDCs in the next decade. 
The  success  of  the  Conference  would  certainly 
demonstrate  the  spirit  of  genuine  partnership  and 
mutual assistance among members of the international 
community. Therefore, in my capacity as chair of the 
group  of  LLDCs,  I  call  on  all  parties,  international 
organizations  — 
the  United  Nations 
system  —  international  financial  institutions,  the 
private  sector  and  non-governmental  organizations  to 
participate actively in the preparation and organization 
of  the  Conference  in  view  of  ensuring  its  successful 
outcome.
including 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Eamon  Gilmore,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of Ireland.
Mr. Gilmore (Ireland): Every day, the peoples of 
the world whom we are privileged to represent in the 
General  Assembly  look  on  in  helpless  horror  at  the 
slaughter in Syria. They can see gassed children lined 
out, dead, on their television screens. They can access 
online  the  facts  about  the  100,000  Syrians  who  have 
been  killed;  the  4  million  who  have  been  displaced; 
and  the  2  million  or  more  who  have  been  driven  into 
refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.
The peoples who have sent us, Government leaders 
and  diplomats,  to  speak  for  them  in  this  Hall  are 
asking,  “Why  can  we  not  stop  this  slaughter  and  this 
suffering?” They see the conflict in real time. It is not 
taking place in a remote part of the planet. Its brutality 
is made more visible by modern technology. The utterly 
callous  attack  in  Ghouta  on  21  August  marked  a  new 
low in the endless litany of horrors.
From  the  very  outset,  Ireland  has  consistently 
argued that the United Nations and the Security Council 
must be central to any efforts to resolve the crisis and 
ensure  that  international  law  and  basic  human  rights 
are upheld. And while it has taken much longer than we 
would  all  have  wished,  I  welcome  the  decisive  action 
the Security Council has now taken on Syria.
Mr. Sinhaseni (Thailand), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013)  marks  a 
watershed in the international community’s engagement 
on  the  crisis.  It  offers  renewed  hope  and  confidence 
that  the  United  Nations  is  capable  of  discharging 
its  responsibilities  and  meeting  the  aspirations  and 
expectations of the peoples of the world. The resolution 
builds on the vital breakthrough achieved by the United 
States  and  Russia  in  agreeing  to  a  framework  for  the 
complete elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons. Full 
compliance  by  the  Syrian  regime  with  its  obligations 
is imperative. Ireland has already pledged €200,000 in 
funding to support the vital role of the Organization for 
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, assisted by the 
United Nations, in implementing those arrangements.
Crucially,  the  Security  Council  has  called  for 
the  early  convening  of  an  international  conference  to 
address  all  aspects  of  the  conflict.  The  inescapable 
reality is that the crisis can be resolved only politically, 
not  militarily.  I  am  greatly  encouraged  by 
the 
indications  that  the  “Geneva  II”  conference  could  be 
held  within  a  matter  of  weeks.  Peace  can  come  only 
through all Syrians engaging in a genuinely inclusive 
process aimed at agreeing a new political dispensation 
in their country.
The Security Council has expressed its conviction 
that  there  must  also  be  accountability  for  what  has 
occurred  in  Syria.  The  International  Criminal  Court 
exists precisely for that purpose. We owe it to the Syrian 
people  to  ensure  that  those  responsible  for  the  war 
crimes committed against them are brought to justice. 
There is also an urgent need to remove impediments 
to  the  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance.  Violence 
against civilians must cease. All parties must facilitate 
unimpeded access to people in need throughout Syria 
and guarantee the safety and security of humanitarian 
personnel  who  perform  their  duties  at  enormous 
personal risk.
The  humanitarian  efforts  being  made  by  Syria’s 
neighbours,  including  Turkey,  Jordan  and  Lebanon, 
are remarkable and deserve far more support from the 
international community. We should not underestimate 
the  strain  being  imposed  on  those  countries  and  the 
threats being posed to refugee populations. Ireland has 
contributed $15 million to the humanitarian operation, 
and we stand ready to do more within our means.
Elsewhere  in  the  Middle  East,  we  also  see  the 
prospect of progress. In Ireland, we know what it takes 
to  make  peace  after  a  protracted  conflict.  I  want  to 
acknowledge the work being done in the current direct 
talks  between  Israeli  and  Palestinian  negotiators, 
which  all  who  wish  for  peace  must  welcome.  I  want 
to  commend  in  particular  the  determination  and 
8/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
engagement  of  United  States  Secretary  of  State  John 
Kerry, who has done so much to bring that about, and 
the leadership of President Abbas and Prime Minister 
Netanyahu, who have had to accept difficult choices to 
begin the process of negotiation. We all know, and they 
know, that many more difficult choices lie before them 
if  they  are  to  succeed  and  to  secure  a  comprehensive 
peace settlement. They deserve all our support.
to  address 
We are also encouraged by the stated determination 
of 
the  new  Iranian  Government 
the 
concerns  of  the  international  community  and  build 
confidence  in  the  exclusively  peaceful  nature  of  its 
nuclear programme. We look forward to Iran’s serious 
engagement in meaningful negotiations, leading to full 
compliance with all of its international obligations, and 
hope that that will also contribute to the creation of a 
positive dynamic in the Middle East region.
to  reinforce 
Ireland  currently  participates  in  seven  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions,  including  each  of 
the  three  missions  in  the  Middle  East.  In  response  to 
a  request  of  the  Secretary-General,  we  are  deploying 
Irish  personnel 
the  United  Nations 
Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) on the Golan 
Heights. We are doing so to help ensure that UNDOF 
can  continue  to  implement  its  mandate  at  a  difficult 
time. Ireland’s deployment to that challenging mission 
is a signal of our deep commitment to the peacekeeping 
role of the United Nations. The Irish people are rightly 
proud of these soldiers and of the record of our Defence 
Forces, members of our police service and Irish civilians 
deployed in the cause of peace.
I join other speakers at this rostrum in condemning 
the recent attack in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi, which 
left  dozens  of  innocent  people  dead  and  almost  200 
injured. It was a chilling reminder that well-organized 
and ruthless international terrorist groups and networks 
are constantly searching for new locations and targets 
for  atrocities.  My  profound  sympathy  and  that  of  the 
people of Ireland go out to the victims of the attack and 
their families. We must be vigilant against terror and 
resolute  in  refusing  to  compromise  our  values  in  the 
face of such threats.
Many  factors  contribute 
to  human  suffering. 
Violent  conflict,  such  as  that  in  Syria,  is  one  —  and 
the toll of casualties there is escalating daily. But there 
are many parts of the world where underdevelopment, 
malnutrition  and  disease  exact  an  even  greater  toll. 
Around  the  globe,  870  million  people  —  almost  200 
times the entire population of Ireland — are living in 
extreme poverty and hunger. Every single day, 18,000 
children die needlessly from preventable causes in the 
poorest and least developed regions of the world; 7,000 
of them are children under the age of 5, who die because 
they are undernourished. One in every four children is 
stunted,  most  of  them  in  the  poorest  countries.  And 
every  day,  800  women  die  because  of  complications 
during pregnancy and childbirth, for basic reasons that 
could have been prevented. 
Reversing those trends and creating a better future 
for  the  countless  millions  of  impoverished  people  on 
our planet is, perhaps, the greatest moral and practical 
challenge  we  face  today.  We  can,  of  course,  draw 
inspiration  and  hope  from  our  successes.  And  there 
have been successes. Thirteen years ago, at the United 
Nations,  world  leaders  committed  to  taking  tangible, 
measurable  action  to  tackle  global  poverty.  Huge 
progress has been made since then under the framework 
of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
Significant numbers of people have been lifted out of 
poverty.  Millions  of  children  are  receiving  primary 
education. Two billion people have access to improved 
water supplies, and HIV/AIDS and other diseases and 
pandemics are being tackled.
Nevertheless,  fresh  global  challenges,  such  as 
climate  change,  are  beginning  to  undermine  the 
progress  made.  Communities  in  developing  countries 
that  have  contributed  least  to  the  causes  of  climate 
change  are  suffering  most  from  its  effects.  That  is 
an  injustice  —  clear  and  simple.  It  is  a  matter  of 
fundamental human rights and equity. And it is critical 
for the future of all of our children, in a world which is 
reaching the limits of environmental sustainability, that 
this injustice be reversed.
I  had  the  privilege  of  taking  part  in  this  week’s 
special  event  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  co-chairing  one  of  the  round-table  sessions. 
Ireland is proud to have co-facilitated the special event 
with  South  Africa  and  to  have  achieved  an  outcome 
document that will guide negotiations over the next two 
years on completing the MDGs and crafting the post-
2015 development agenda.
I  believe  that  when  world  leaders  gather  at  the 
United  Nations  in  2015,  we  can  and  should  be  ready 
to adopt a new set of global goals aimed at achieving a 
sustainable, just and secure world for the future. I want 
to see a clear commitment to ending extreme poverty 
13-48809
9/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
and  hunger  in  a  generation.  I  want  to  see  specific 
commitments in relation to the empowerment of women 
and girls. And I want to see an integrated approach on 
climate change and a strong focus on climate-sensitive 
agriculture.
In  our  own  aid  programme,  my  Government 
has  prioritized  hunger  and  malnutrition,  a  theme 
that  resonates  with  Ireland’s  own  history.  We  have 
a  very  simple  message  about  the  vital  importance  of 
investment  in  nutrition  for  mothers  and  babies.  We 
are  leading  supporters  of  the  Scaling  Up  Nutrition 
movement, and we are committed to doubling our aid 
spending on nutrition by 2016.
Ireland is today emerging from several years of an 
economic crisis that will soon be behind us. After many 
tough  decisions  and  a  lot  of  hard  work,  we  are  about 
to safely exit an international bailout and our economy 
is  back  on  track.  I  am  proud  to  say  that  despite  the 
extremely  difficult  circumstances  many  Irish  people 
find themselves in, we have sustained our commitment 
to the provision of development aid. I know that we are 
ready to play our part in a new global partnership, and 
that  it  is  only  through  this  body,  the  United  Nations, 
that it can be achieved.
It  is  a  matter  of  great  pride  to  my  country  that 
Ireland  was  last  year  elected  for  the  first  time  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  I  warmly  thank  the  Member 
States  for  their  support  in  the  election  and  the 
confidence they have placed in us. Ireland played a lead 
role in the adoption of two important resolutions by the 
Human Rights Council this week — one on preventable 
mortality of children under five; the other recognizing 
the important role played by civil society at the local, 
national, regional and international levels.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
adopted by the Assembly states that recognition of the 
inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights 
of all members of the human family is the foundation of 
freedom, justice and peace in the world. It also states that 
those human rights should be protected in law. Today, 
instead  of  offering  protection,  we  increasingly  see 
legal  measures  being  adopted  to  discriminate  against 
people on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender 
identity.  I  welcome  the  courageous  leadership  shown 
by the Secretary-General when he promised in April to 
lead  a  global  campaign  for  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and 
transgender  rights.  Ireland  pledges  its  full  support  to 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  both  here  in  the 
General Assembly and in the Human Rights Council.
Ireland is a small State that is deeply committed to 
the  United  Nations  and  to  the  principles  enshrined  in 
its Charter. We are proud to contribute to the important 
efforts of the United Nations in peacekeeping, in conflict 
resolution,  in  development  aid  and  in  humanitarian 
action. There can be no doubt that the United Nations 
is  the  unique  and  indispensable  forum  where  the 
peoples of the world share their collective concerns and 
determine to take action to make the world a better and 
a safer place.
The  membership  of 
this  Organization  has 
conferred  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  on  the  Security 
Council.  Accordingly,  we  look  to  the  Council  to 
show  leadership  in  response  to  international  crises. 
Membership of the Council is a privilege for any State, 
and  Ireland  has  been  honoured  to  serve  on  it  on  a 
number of occasions. 
But  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council have a special responsibility to work together 
in  a  way  that  enables  the  United  Nations  to  live  up 
to  the  commitments  made  in  its  Charter.  When  the 
United  Nations  fails,  or  delays  action,  we  are  all  the 
poorer for such setbacks. But when the United Nations 
works,  we  can  achieve  great  things  together.  And 
those  successes,  such  as  the  definition  of  a  post-2015 
development  agenda,  should  serve  as  an  inspiration 
and  a  springboard  for  the  international  community’s 
responses to the other great challenges of our time.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Surapong  Tovichakchaikul,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand.
Mr.  Tovichakchaikul  (Thailand):  On  behalf  of 
the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  allow  me 
to  congratulate  the  Honourable  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-eighth session. My delegation stands ready to 
render our full support and cooperation.
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
exceptional  leadership  during  the  previous  session. 
I  am  particularly  grateful  for  his  contributions  to  the 
second  Asia-Pacific  Water  Summit,  held  in  Chiang 
Mai, Thailand, earlier this year.
Thailand  is  committed  to  the  United  Nations. 
Our faith in the principles and values it stands for has 
never  wavered.  The  United  Nations  three  pillars  of 
security,  development  and  human  rights  continue  to 
10/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
inspire and motivate us. When the 50 founding States 
came together in San Francisco in 1945, the world had 
high hopes for the United Nations. The United Nations 
was created in response to the demands of a different 
time, after millions of lives had been lost in a conflict 
between States. Today, it is conflict within States that 
takes the heaviest human toll, as we have witnessed in 
the unfolding events in Syria.
As we look ahead to the post-2015 future, we must 
not shy away from asking the hard questions. We must 
ask ourselves whether multilateralism has lived up to our 
expectations, be it in security, trade or the environment. 
We must ask how we Member States can do better in the 
face of critical challenges. That is because ultimately, 
the success of the United Nations depends on all of us. 
With such a diversity of viewpoints, it is all the more 
important for us to work together to find the unity and 
consensus we need. 
The  challenges  facing  us  are  particularly  clear 
in  the  case  of  Syria.  On  21  August,  we  learned  that 
chemical  weapons  had  been  used  against  innocent 
civilians  in  Syria.  Despite  widespread  condemnation 
and  outrage,  the  United  Nations  was  initially  unable 
to  act  and  the  Security  Council  was  deadlocked.  We 
therefore  welcome  resolution  2118  (2013)  on  Syria, 
adopted  yesterday  by  the  Security  Council.  We  urge 
Syria to ensure the full and effective implementation of 
the resolution, and to allow monitoring and enforcement 
by the international community. It is our hope that the 
Security  Council,  especially  its  permanent  members, 
will continue to work to find a durable political solution 
for the sake of the Syrian people.
In setting the stage for the post-2015 development 
agenda,  we  must  recognize  that  development  cannot 
take  root  without  peace,  security,  democracy  and 
human rights. The three pillars of the United Nations 
must be developed together and nurtured together. To 
strengthen the United Nations, we need to seek ways to 
achieve unity and consensus on the issues that matter 
most.  In  the  area  of  security,  this  means  thinking  of 
new, creative ways to respond to the changing threats. 
For  instance,  when  States  fail  to  protect  their  own 
populations,  or  even  cause  them  harm,  all  our  words 
will amount to little unless matched with action.
But  what  kind  of  action  would  make  the  most 
difference  on  the  ground?  When  and  how  is  it  most 
effective?  There  are  no  simple  answers.  It  is  on  such 
issues that the world looks to the Security Council for 
leadership. Too often, however, the Council is paralysed 
just when action is most needed. Overcoming deadlock 
and achieving consensus must be a central objective of 
Security Council reform.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The United Nations is, of course, much more than the 
Security Council. Unity and consensus are also needed 
on  development.  Thailand  believes  that  sustainable 
development must be at the heart of the United Nations 
agenda.  The  world  has  made  great  strides  in  tackling 
poverty  and  hunger,  thanks  in  no  small  part  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  but  all  of 
us still need to make a final push on the MDGs. That 
would enable us to tackle the deep-rooted poverty that 
still afflicts the so-called bottom billion.
Following  the  MDGs,  the  post-2015  development 
agenda must provide both continuity and a new source 
of  hope.  To  build  on  the  MDGs,  Thailand  believes 
that we should place special emphasis on the needs of 
the  most  vulnerable  countries.  That  includes  conflict 
and  post-conflict  societies,  as  well  as  those  of  least 
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries 
and small island developing States. If we fail to do so, 
millions will be left behind.
The  most  pressing  challenge 
to  sustainable 
development  that  demands  our  concerted  action  is 
climate change. For a number of countries, particularly 
small island developing States, climate change strikes 
at  the  very  heart  of  survival.  For  much  of  the  world, 
climate  change  is  also  linked  to  another  important 
challenge — food security. Extreme weather can cause 
great  damage  to  agriculture.  The  impact  will  be  felt 
not  only  in  food-producing  countries,  but  worldwide. 
That is why we need to work together to put in place 
systems  —  better  weather  prediction  technology, 
better storage silos and more resilient strains of staple 
crops — that will mitigate the impact of climate change. 
Those are areas where countries should help one another 
by sharing their experiences and know-how. 
Thailand  believes  that,  if  development  is  to  be 
sustainable,  it  must  be  people-centred.  We  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  “A  life  of  dignity  for 
all:  accelerating  progress  towards  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and advancing the United Nations 
development  agenda  beyond  2015”  (A/68/202),  which 
puts  people  at  the  centre  of  the  development  agenda. 
People  need  to  be  given  the  chance  and  the  tools  to 
make the most of their potential. This can happen if we 
13-48809
11/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
focus more on promoting human security, for instance 
through  education  and  health  care.  On  education,  we 
believe that the Secretary-General’s Global Education 
First Initiative is an important contribution to the post-
2015 development agenda and deserves the support of 
all stakeholders. Health is also very much a development 
issue. When people are unhealthy, it imposes a cost on 
State finances and can even undo development gains.
As  we  look  to  the  post-20l5  future,  we  must  not 
limit our goals to specific health challenges. We should 
now  set  our  sights  on  the  more  general  objective  of 
universal  health  care.  Initiated  by  the  administration 
of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra 10 years 
ago,  Thailand  has  been  implementing  a  programme 
that charges only $1 per doctor’s visit. This universal 
health-care  scheme  is  universal  in  its  coverage  of 
treatments,  ranging  from  common 
illnesses  and 
chronic diseases to lifesaving surgeries. Statistics have 
shown  that  through  this  programme,  around  300,000 
households have been saved from falling into poverty. 
Even  non-Thai  nationals,  especially  migrant  workers 
from neighbouring countries are also benefiting from 
universal health care, making it truly universal. 
The socioeconomic impact of this programme has 
therefore  been  tremendous.  Those  who  benefit  most 
from  our  universal  health  care  have  been  the  poor 
and the vulnerable. By working to empower the most 
vulnerable  among  us,  we  ensure  that  development 
is  more  inclusive.  We  believe  that  the  model  could 
be  adapted  to  other  developing  countries,  and  we  are 
willing to share the lessons we have learned from our 
experience.
We also believe that women, children, the elderly 
and persons with disabilities must be treated fairly and 
encouraged  to  participate  fully  in  all  aspects  of  life. 
Particularly in situations of conflict, vulnerable groups 
are often at the greatest risk of violence. We therefore 
support  the  United  Nations  initiative  to  end  sexual 
violence  in  conflict.  We  also  commend  the  United 
Kingdom for its leadership in realizing the Declaration 
of Commitment on this important issue.
To  provide  an  environment  that  facilitates  unity 
and  consensus,  the  international  community  must 
also  forge  a  new  global  partnership.  This  new  global 
partnership must rest on a common agenda for action. It 
will need to involve States — in particular like-minded 
States  —  the  United  Nations,  regional  organizations, 
civil  society  and  other  stakeholders.  In  South-East 
Asia, the process is well under way. The Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations is strengthening its partnership 
to become a community of over 600 million people by 
the end of 2015. Regional discussions on the post-2015 
agenda are also complementing ongoing global efforts. 
As  a  moderate,  medium-sized  country  with  an  open 
society,  Thailand  is  ready  to  work  with  all  countries 
and  partners.  We  want  to  do  our  part  in  helping 
bridge the gaps in communication, understanding and 
opportunity.
That is why we have put forward our candidacies to 
the Security Council for the term 2017-2018 and to the 
Human Rights Council for the term 2015-2017. We are 
keen to help build bridges to connect all stakeholders 
in a more cohesive, action-oriented global partnership. 
Building a global partnership means forging a common 
agenda for action on our most important challenges. It 
means  reaching  out  beyond  our  borders,  beyond  our 
region and beyond our comfort zone.
Thailand has been building bridges not only within 
Asia,  but  also  with  Africa  and  Latin  America.  We 
believe  that  developing  countries  everywhere  need 
to  come  together  in  a  spirit  of  partnership  to  make 
their  voices  heard.  What  is  more,  that  same  sense  of 
partnership  must  also  cross  the  development  divide, 
embracing developed and developing economies alike.
Since the beginning, the United Nations has been 
a  force  for  good.  As  its  membership  has  grown  and 
the  issues  have  become  more  complex,  we  have  now 
reached a crossroads. Whether the United Nations takes 
the right path rests on our ability to achieve consensus 
and  to  act  together  in  a  meaningful  manner.  Now  is 
the  time  for  us  to  set  aside  our  outdated  assumptions 
and  our  differences.  Our  common  future  depends  on 
our ability to come together to forge consensus on the 
new realities before us. The way forward is not through 
politics as usual, but through constructive dialogue and 
mutual  respect.  With  goodwill  and  common  purpose, 
the international community can once again rise to the 
challenge.  Together,  we  can  fulfil  the  promise  of  the 
Organization  and  the  loftiest  goals  toward  which  we, 
the Member States, have always aspired.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Manasseh  Maelanga,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands.
Mr. Maelanga (Solomon Islands): It is with much 
pride that the Government and the people of the Solomon 
Islands  join  me  in  congratulating  a  fellow  islander, 
Ambassador  John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  on 
12/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session. As one of his Vice-Presidents, we 
assure him of Solomon Islands’ support and cooperation 
during his tenure in office.
I take this opportunity to commend his predecessor, 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić of Serbia, whose leadership guided us 
through over 300 resolutions, the adoption of the Arms 
Trade Treaty and the convening of a number of high-
level  thematic  debates.  Solomon  Islands  also  wishes 
to  acknowledge  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his  service  and  commitment  to  our  global  world.  I 
would also like to welcome Kiribati, whose permanent 
representation in New York completes the Pacific small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS)  presence  in  a  single 
city.
My delegation welcomes the sixty-eighth session’s 
theme, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting the 
stage”.  The  world  has  changed  since  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
launched. 
Populations  have  grown,  cities  have  expanded,  and 
consumption  and  production  patterns  have  pushed  us 
to  our  planetary  boundaries.  Solomon  Islands’  MDG 
national scorecard remains mixed. We have progressed 
on some fronts and remain off track on others.
(MDGs)  were 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  offers  us 
an  opportunity  to  change  the  way  we  do  business. 
In  that  regard,  Solomon  Islands  seeks  a  new  spirit 
of  partnership  that  will  reform  the  global  economic 
architecture.  My  subregion  in  the  Pacific  supplies 
60 per cent of the world’s tuna. Over three decades, the 
Pacific Islands have developed fisheries institutions and 
legal and management frameworks. With international 
support,  we  can  supply  the  world  with  fish.  Solomon 
Islands, as Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries 
Agency  and  of  the  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement, 
calls for a new mindset that would provide the Pacific 
Island States with the space and capacity to develop its 
domestic industries and restructure the fishing fleets of 
distant-water nations in the region.
The  Pacific  Fisheries  Vessel  Day  Scheme  has 
allowed us to realize our development aspirations. Two 
new fishing industries have established themselves this 
year in Solomon Islands. We remain firm in our resolve 
that the Scheme shall remain the central pillar in all our 
fisheries negotiations.
Solomon Islands welcomes the President’s proposal 
of  convening  a  third  thematic  debate  on  sustainable 
energy  during  this  session.  We  note  that  1.3  billion 
people, half of whom live in least developed countries, 
have no access to electricity. The Istanbul Programme 
of Action recognizes that access to affordable, reliable, 
renewable energy is crucial to accelerating sustainable, 
inclusive economic growth, increased social equity and 
a sustainable and clean environment.
Expanding energy access for our rural populations 
and  reducing  energy  costs  are  national  priorities 
for  Solomon  Islands.  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that 
Solomon  Islands  joined  the  International  Renewable 
Energy Agency (IRENA) last month. We hope to work 
with  IRENA  in  unlocking  some  of  our  hydroenergy 
potential.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  we  already  have  a 
working relationship with the World Bank and the Asian 
Development  Bank  on  hydro-projects.  We  are  also  in 
discussion with the Clinton Foundation on harvesting 
our geothermal potential. Once that gets off the ground, 
it will be a private-public sector partnership. Bilaterally 
a number of partners, including the Republic of China, 
Italy and Japan, have people-centred solar programmes 
in the country. Those programmes continue to light up 
our community schools and villages. Renewable energy 
also  improves  public  service  delivery  to  our  rural 
populations and empowers Solomon Islanders to make 
sustainable choices in life.
Globally, the Pacific SIDS are themselves helping 
to fill the information gaps in global renewable energy 
databases,  in  cases  where  information  on  the  Pacific 
is  lacking.  A  Pacific  renewable  energy  database  will 
be  developed  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific.  The  vision  is  to  focus  on  enhancing  the 
Pacific  region’s  inclusion  in  the  international  energy 
dialogue and to provide sufficient data to inspire new 
global partners to concentrate more on on-the-ground 
investments, less on studies.
Infrastructure  development  is  critical  in  opening 
more  opportunities  for  our  rural  populations.  We 
acknowledge  New  Zealand  for  the  construction  of 
our  second  international  airport  and  other  partners, 
such  as  Australia  and  the  European  Union,  for  the 
wharves, airfields and roads they have helped to build. 
Those  structural  investments  allow  Solomon  Islands 
to  enhance  its  trade  and  strengthen  the  unity  of  the 
country.
Climate change remains a global issue that needs 
a  global  solution.  We  join  all  small  island  developing 
States and least developed countries in conveying our 
concern  about  the  slow  progress  of  climate  change 
13-48809
13/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
negotiations.  The  alarming  pace  of  climate  change  is 
posing unprecedented threats to humankind’s survival. 
In  May,  carbon  dioxide  concentration  reached  a 
new  threshold  of  400  parts  per  million.  For  Solomon 
Islands, this means that the livelihood and well-being 
of our people are now under threat. Corals stop growing 
at 500 parts per million.
We  are  heartened  by  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal to convene a climate change summit next year. 
We hope that the summit will not be a talkfest, but that it 
will garner the necessary political will of Member States 
to increase their level of commitment to reducing and 
phasing down greenhouse-gas pollution commensurate 
with scientific guidelines. The summit remains our best 
hope for preventing the impact of climate change from 
reaching  an  irreversible  level.  We  once  again  register 
our regret that certain countries have reneged on their 
historical responsibility and unilaterally decided to opt 
out of their multilateral obligations.
The world will celebrate 2014 as the International 
Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States.  The  SIDS 
conference  is  scheduled  to  be  held  in  Samoa  next 
year.  We  count  on  the  world  to  enable  small  island 
developing States to eradicate poverty, build resilience 
and  unleash  the  potential  of  our  youths.  That  will 
require the enhanced implementation of the Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
Implementation towards an evidenced-based outcome.
In seeking a sustainable future for our people, last 
year we announced that we would establish a national 
university.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  we  launched 
Solomon  Islands  National  University  in  April.  A 
second university, the University of the South Pacific, 
has  also  completed  all  formalities  and  is  expected  to 
begin  the  construction  of  its  fourth  campus  in  one  of 
our provinces. The development of human capital will 
allow  Solomon  Islands  to  build  a  knowledge-based 
society and have more job-ready nationals to meet our 
development needs.
This  week  the  international  community  convened 
the first inaugural meeting of the High-level Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development. In preparation for 
the  Forum,  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
formed  the  Pacific  Islands  Development  Forum  this 
year. Solomon Islands is one of the founding members 
of the Forum, an alliance of States and non-State and 
private-sector actors that focus on the green economy 
in the context of sustainable development. The Pacific 
Islands  Development  Forum  intends  to  speak  with  a 
united voice in the High-level Political Forum. Pacific 
SIDS look forward to working with the Forum.
I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  Solomon  Islands 
began a new journey two months ago. The 10-year-old 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  Regional  Assistance  Mission 
to  the  Solomon  Islands  (RAMSI) —  led  by  Australia 
and  supported  by  New  Zealand  and  Pacific  small 
island developing States — went through a transitional 
phase.  RAMSI,  provided  for  under  Chapter  VIII  of 
the Charter of the United Nations, now provides only 
police assistance. The success of the transitional phase 
belongs  to  our  people  and  our  region.  On  that  note,  I 
take  this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  Solomon  Islands,  to  express  our 
profound gratitude and appreciation to all our regional 
neighbours. We thank them very much.
Multilateralism remains a cornerstone of Solomon 
Islands’  foreign  policy.  Country  ownership  remains  a 
foundation  of  any  cooperation  and  programme.  This 
year,  under  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
leadership, the United Nations Development Assistance 
Framework  for  the  Pacific  (2013-2017)  was  launched. 
The  $292  million  programme  covers  14  Pacific 
countries  and  territories,  all  with  the  same  priorities. 
We  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  align  itself  with 
Solomon  Islands  national  sustainable  development 
strategy  2011–2020.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  over  the 
years  we  have  called  for  an  enhanced  United  Nations 
country  presence.  We  renew  the  call  to  upgrade  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  country 
office from the level of deputy resident representative 
to that of resident representative.
A peaceful, just and stable democracy is critical for 
sustainable  development.  Solomon  Islands  continues 
to  invest  in  strengthening  its  governance  system.  A 
political  party  integrity  bill  is  being  introduced  in 
our  national  Parliament.  The  political  party  bill  aims 
to  give  more  power  to  our  electoral  commission  to 
properly  manage  our  national  election  process.  We 
are  also  putting  in  place  a  sustainable,  cost-effective 
and  inclusive  voting  registration  system.  That  is  an 
expensive  exercise;  we  have  sought  partnership  with 
the United Nations, the European Union and Australia. 
We  thank  our  partners  for  their  ongoing  support  to 
our  electoral  reform  programme.  That  assistance 
complements  work  done  on  e-governance.  Solomon 
Islands  this  year  established  a  metro  area  network  as 
a  single  secure  network  connecting  85  Government 
14/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
offices. We hope that will improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the Government’s computer machinery.
Solomon Islands would like to see a strong United 
Nations.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  Assembly’s 
commitment  to  achieving  real  progress  on  reforming 
and  revitalizing  two  of  our  principal  organs,  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly. We assure 
the Assembly of our support on those two endeavours.
My delegation also welcomes the modernization of 
the Secretariat Building and the conference rooms and 
the  renovation  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  also 
pleased to note that United Nations competitive exams 
will be held in my capital in the next two months. We 
are  holding  the  exams  for  the  third  consecutive  year. 
I  thank  the  Secretariat,  and  in  particular  the  United 
Nations human resources personnel, for their outreach, 
and sincerely hope the nationals selected will contribute 
to the diversity of the Secretariat.
Changing global realities have seen the emergence 
and expansion of South-South cooperation. This year, 
Solomon  Islands  established 
two  new  diplomatic 
missions  in  Cuba  and  Malaysia,  respectively.  On 
18 April, Solomon Islands raised its flag in Havana. We 
also welcomed Cuba as a Pacific Islands Forum post-
forum dialogue partner three weeks ago. Similarly, in 
Malaysia last month the first resident Solomon Islands 
Ambassador  presented  his  credentials.  We  intend  to 
strengthen  our  ties  with  the  wider  Asian  and  Pacific 
region,  including  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations and India. We have some 100 medical students 
in Cuba; the first graduates are expected in 2014. We 
thank Cuba for its cooperation.
For more than two decades, the General Assembly 
has called overwhelmingly for the lifting of the more 
than five-decades-old economic blockade imposed on 
Cuba  by  our  friend  and  partner  the  United  States  of 
America. Confrontational lines will need to be replaced 
with dialogue and cooperation. We cannot look to the 
future if we cling to the past. We hope that a forward-
looking policy will be embraced by the United States of 
America in easing the blockade.
I turn now to bilateral cooperation with Papua New 
Guinea, my Melanesian neighbour. Papua New Guinea 
continues to provide opportunities for young Solomon 
Islanders  in  terms  of  employment  and  scholarships. 
Visa-free work schemes have been launched, and trade 
relations continue to grow to new heights.
In  my  subregion, 
the  Melanesian  Spearhead 
Group — composed of Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu 
and  Solomon  Islands  —  represents  one  of  the  most 
diverse regions of the world. A quarter of the world’s 
languages are spoken by the more than 8 million people 
of the subregion. Enhanced free trade has unified the 
culturally  rich  diverse  populations.  Today,  the  Group 
is  exploring  other  economic,  security  and  political 
cooperation.
On  Fiji,  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  progress 
put  in  place  by  the  Government  of  Fiji  for  the  people 
to freely express themselves through the parliamentary 
elections  scheduled  for  2014.  Solomon  Islands  notes 
the  adoption  of  Fiji’s  new  Constitution  and  wishes 
the  Government  and  people  of  Fiji  every  success  in 
determining their own future.
The  inalienable  right  to  self-determination  is  a 
key pillar of the United Nations. With respect to New 
Caledonia, members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group 
continue  to  support  the  Territory’s  self-determination 
process  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, the relevant human rights instruments and the 
Noumea  Accord.  In  regard  to  the  Territory  of  French 
Polynesia, I take this opportunity to thank the General 
Assembly and all Pacific small island developing States 
for  adopting  by  consensus  resolution  67/265,  on  the 
self-determination  of  French  Polynesia  in  May.  The 
questions  of  the  Territories  of  French  Polynesia  and 
New  Caledonia  are  scheduled  to  be  discussed  by  the 
Fourth Committee next week.
On  human  rights,  Solomon  Islands  recognizes 
that  all  States  bear  the  responsibility  to  protect  their 
citizens.  We  believe  that  all  States  must  take  feasible 
steps  to  ensure  that  the  rights  of  their  people  are 
protected.  Solomon  Islands,  in  that  regard,  condemns 
all human rights violations against civilians, wherever 
they may occur.
On the Middle East, we continue to watch with horror 
the daily carnage and the humanitarian catastrophe in 
Syria. We note with concern the preliminary findings 
of the United Nations investigation team confirming the 
use  of  chemical  weapons.  Solomon  Islands  welcomes 
the  Russian  and  United  States  initiatives  to  destroy 
chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  and  further  supports  all 
efforts to find a diplomatic and political solution to the 
civil war.
13-48809
15/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
On Israel and Palestine, we support all international 
efforts  for  the  two  States  to  resume  negotiations  and 
achieve a just, lasting and sustainable peace.
one set of goals, under a single process with common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities.  Present  and  future 
generations depend on what we do today.
Solomon  Islands  remains  an  arms-free  State.  We 
note  that  the  use  of  conventional  and  unconventional 
arms in the wrong hands threatens international peace 
and  stability.  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  recently 
adopted  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  hopes  that  major 
players  in  the  arms  trade  will  sign  that  international 
framework.  That  will  strengthen  the  Treaty.  Solomon 
Islands  continues  to  follow  and  assess  the  Treaty’s 
progress.
On the question of the Republic of China, Solomon 
Islands call for the Republic’s meaningful participation 
at United Nations specialized organizations. We would 
like  to  acknowledge  the  Republic  of  China’s  recent 
participation  in  the  Assembly  of  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO)  as  a  guest  of  the 
organization’s  President.  We  recognize  that  as  a  first 
step.  We  continue  to  seek  observer  status  for  the 
Republic  of  China  both  at  ICAO  and  at  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
Those  requests  mirror  the  observer  status  that  the 
Republic of China currently enjoys at the World Health 
Assembly.
Solomon Islands continues to serve on the United 
Nations  Executive  Board.  We  welcome 
the  new 
Executive  Director  of  UN-Women,  Ms.  Phumzile 
Mlambo-Ngcuka,  and  assure  her  of  our  cooperation.  
We  note  with  concern  that  the  UN-Women  strategic 
plan for 2014-2017 is underfunded. We call for political 
and  financial  support  for  the  plan.  We  support  the 
Executive  Director’s  call  that  priority  be  given  to  the 
economic  empowerment  of  women  in  rural  areas. 
We  hope  the  Executive  Board  can  also  address  UN-
Women’s representation vacuum in the Pacific. 
Gender  violence  remains  an  issue  in  Solomon 
international 
Islands,  and  my  country 
community in condemning sexual violence.
joins 
the 
We  continue  to  seek  an  inclusive  society.  In 
partnership with an Australian entity, Solomon Islands 
organized national games for persons with disabilities 
in  our  country  and  other  events.  Although  we  still 
have a long way to go in creating a disability-friendly 
society, we remain determined to achieve that end.
Let  me  close  where  I  began.  The  post-2015 
development  agenda  is  our  shared  agenda.  We  must 
remain united and work as one, with one aim, to deliver 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Vete Sakaio, Deputy Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Sakaio  (Tuvalu):  It  is  a  great  honour  and 
pleasure  to  participate  in  the  sixty-eighth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  people  and 
the Government of Tuvalu. At the outset, I would like 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  new  leadership 
responsibilities;  he  has  all  the  blessings  and  support 
of Tuvalu. I also wish to thank and acknowledge with 
profound  appreciation  the  outgoing  President  and  the 
continued  assistance  and  support  given  by  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  the  specialized  organizations 
and their respective heads and staff. We are particularly 
grateful  for  our  membership  in  the  United  Nations 
following a successful sixty-seventh session.
The  new  Government  of  Tuvalu,  of  which  I  am 
honoured  to  be  Deputy  Prime  Minister,  was  elected 
two  months  ago.  Just  last  week,  the  Government,  in 
cooperation  with  development  partners,  launched  a 
road map committing to mutual partnerships that will 
deliver and make a difference for the people of Tuvalu. 
The road map focuses on improving the delivery of vital 
basic  services,  strengthening  good  governance  and 
enhancing  local  capacity  to  address  Tuvalu’s  unique 
vulnerabilities  and  respond  effectively  to  the  impacts 
of climate change.
It is visionary and timely to focus our debate on the 
theme of “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage” as we approach the end of a journey called 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  are 
now  ready  to  chart  a  new  path,  which  we  are  calling 
the sustainable development goals (SDGs) and the post-
2015 agenda. And as we do every fall, we have gathered 
to reaffirm our spirit for and commitment to a renewed 
multilateralism  and  genuine  collective  action  and  to 
reflect, assess, address and plan for how to realize the 
Charter’s  principles  of  peace,  justice,  human  rights, 
social progress and equal opportunity for all.
However, our global efforts cannot be fully universal 
until the United Nations pragmatically recognizes the 
international contribution that the Republic of China on 
Taiwan has made and the responsibility it has undertaken 
to achieve the noble goals of the United Nations, as well 
as the MDGs and SDGs, thus improving the standards 
of living of millions all over the world. The Republic 
16/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
of  China’s  significant  international  participation  in 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies,  including  in 
the  World  Health  Organization,  UNESCO,  UNICEF, 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization,  the 
International  Maritime  Organization  and  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
is  critical  as  we  collectively  advance  towards  the 
post-MDG  era  and  enter  the  era  of  the  sustainable 
development goals. 
Tuvalu also fully supports the lifting of the embargo 
against Cuba. That will allow the Republic of Cuba to 
further  consolidate  and  enhance  its  cooperation  with 
small island developing States (SIDS) like Tuvalu.
Looking back at our MDG journey, we have come 
across a myriad of crises and challenges, both natural 
and  man-made.  We  know  where  we  have  come  from, 
we know our capacities and constraints in facing those 
crises and challenges, and we know the direction we are 
heading in. We give great attention to how to address 
the many persistent and ongoing issues in their entirety 
and in their many forms, as we approach the finish line 
for the MDGs.
As we make the transition to the SDG stage and the 
post-2015 agenda, we take heed of the intrinsic lessons 
from the MDGs. First, the United Nations continues to 
be  a  beacon  of  hope  and,  through  strategic  advocacy 
and awareness campaigns, the Organization brings the 
real  issues  and  current  events  into  the  consciousness 
of  both  the  public  and  the  membership  in  order  to 
propel  action  and  redress.  Secondly,  partnership  is 
key to the success of this truly universal Organization. 
Working  together  cooperatively  delivers  much  more 
that  we  can  make  happen  on  our  own.  Cooperation 
and collaboration with communities, businesses, think 
tanks,  churches,  philanthropists,  regional  groupings 
and  not  least  each  United  Nations  Member,  reaffirms 
a true and sustainable union that should constitute the 
way forward for the SDGs.
The United Nations Charter should be mirrored in 
our national goals and priorities. Our vision for the new 
SDGs and post-2015 agenda must reflect a membership 
that  is  striving  for  the  same  goals  —  a  world  that 
embodies  peace,  not  conflicts  and  terrorism;  hope, 
not  despair;  opportunities,  jobs  and  prospects  for  a 
decent life, not unemployment and welfare dependence; 
security and freedom, not insecurity and totalitarianism; 
equality,  not  autocracy;  unity,  not  divisiveness;  good 
governance  and  leadership,  not  tyranny;  sufficiency, 
not poverty; progress, not setbacks and regression; and 
empowerment, not constraint.
Let  me  reflect  on  Tuvalu’s  performance  with 
respect to the MDGs as the deadline 2015 draws near. 
I am pleased to report that Tuvalu has made significant 
progress towards the achievement of its MDGs, despite 
the impact of the various global financial and economic 
crises  on  its  small,  vulnerable  economy.  In  the  2012 
MDG  progress  report,  Tuvalu  was  assessed  as  being 
on  track  with  respect  to  four  of  the  MDGs:  primary 
education, child mortality, maternal health and global 
partnership;  as  having  the  potential  to  achieve  three 
MDG  targets:  gender  equality,  combating  HIV/AIDS, 
and environmental sustainability; and as being unlikely 
to achieve the MDG on poverty.
The  attainment  of  the  MDG  on  poverty  is  a 
formidable challenge for the fourth-smallest country in 
the world. Tuvalu is poorly endowed in terms of natural 
resources and has almost no productive capacity. Tuvalu 
is highly dependent on aid, leasing gratuities and rental 
incomes  derived  from  its  national  assets  —  air,  sea 
and  its  domain —  and  remittances.  We  will  continue 
to  seek  the  invaluable  support  and  cooperation  of  the 
United Nations and the donor community in our pursuit 
of attaining the MDG on poverty as we approach 2015.
Gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women 
and youth is pursued at all levels of decision-making. In 
2012, Tuvalu adopted a family protection bill that aims 
at safeguarding our women and girls against sexual and 
gender-based violence, domestic violence and rape. The 
bill  has  facilitated  access  to  justice  and  improved  the 
provision of services to women and girls who have been 
subject to discrimination and violence, whether in the 
public or the private sphere.
Tuvalu  is  also  fully  committed  to  the  strategic 
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy 
for  the  Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island 
Developing  States.  As  we  approach  the  International 
Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  in  2014,  and 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States in Apia, Samoa, we urge the United 
Nations to ensure that SIDS status and SIDS-specific 
recognition are truly sanctioned in the Organization’s 
bureaucracy. We have seen enough General Assembly 
resolutions  that  address  SIDS  issues  in  a  vague 
and  abstract  way,  and  yet  the  entire  United  Nations 
13-48809
17/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
development agenda includes no specific treatment of 
SIDS. The 2014 SIDS Conference must be decisive on 
establishing special windows for partnerships on SIDS 
that  are  designed  to  ensure  not  only  their  sustainable 
development  but  also  their  long-term  security  and 
survival.
Tuvalu  appreciates  the  decision  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  defer  consideration  of  Tuvalu’s 
graduation  from  the  least  developed  country  (LDC) 
category  under  the  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action  for 
the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the  Decade  2011-
2020. That said, however, Tuvalu humbly submits that 
while the threshold criteria of LDC graduation — the 
human  development  index,  per  capita  gross  national 
income  and  the  economic  vulnerability  index  —  are 
well  established,  it  would  simply  be  irrational  and 
irresponsible  if  application  of  any  two  of  the  three 
criteria  was  the  only  measure  of  consideration  for 
graduation.  Given  Tuvalu’s  extreme  vulnerability 
as  a  SIDS,  we  believe  that  our  failure  to  achieve  a 
satisfactory  EVI  level  carries  more  weight  for  us  in 
considering our possible graduation from the LDC list.
Climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  have  had  dire 
consequences for Tuvalu’s situation. Our survival and 
security,  and  our  children’s  future  livelihood,  have 
been  seriously  compromised  by  the  international 
community’s  inaction  on  climate  change.  The  fifth 
assessment  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate  Change,  Climate  Change  2013:  The  Physical 
Science Basis, has further confirmed to the world the 
stark predictions for SIDS like Tuvalu in the wake of 
climate  change  and  sea-level  rise.  The  challenge  we 
put to the Assembly is, What else are we waiting for? 
What  is  the  relevance  of  talking  about  post-MDGs 
and SDGs when the world continues to fail in its duty 
and  obligations  to  urgently  reduce  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  and  provide  genuine  adaptation?  Ensuring 
Tuvalu’s  long-term  security  means  saving  the  whole 
world.
Climate  change  is  no  longer  an  environmental 
or  political  issue.  It  is  a  borderless  security  issue  for 
humankind.  Everyone  must  act  to  urgently  reduce 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  and  provide  adaptation. 
Among  the  papers  distributed  to  the  Assembly  is  the 
2013  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Communiqué,  which 
contains the Majuro Declaration for Climate Leadership, 
which  Tuvalu  strongly  supports.  Through  the  Majuro 
Declaration,  the  Pacific  island  leaders  commit  their 
full responsibility and leadership to making their own 
contribution,  however  minuscule,  to  global  efforts  to 
cut greenhouse-gas emissions. If we SIDS in the Pacific 
can do it, surely others can, too. 
The  world  must  save  Tuvalu  and  the  SIDS  in 
order to save the whole planet. We urge perseverance, 
with  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol as the primary 
international  and  intergovernmental  instruments  for 
negotiating  the  global  response  to  climate  change. 
We  call  on  all  parties  to  work  diligently  to  reach  a 
legally binding framework for curbing greenhouse-gas 
emissions  at  the  upcoming  nineteenth  session  of  the 
United Nations Climate Change Conference, in Warsaw. 
The  framework  should  also 
include  mechanisms 
dealing  with  climate-change-related  loss,  damages 
and  insurance  for  SIDS,  and  should  provide  adequate 
and  accessible  financing  for  adaptation  support  to 
SIDS  such  as  Tuvalu.  Tuvalu  also  applauds  and  fully 
supports  the  leadership  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
his  commitment  to  hosting  a  climate  change  summit 
next year.
For  Tuvalu, 
issue 
the  climate  change 
is 
predominantly  linked  to  the  oceans.  For  a  nation 
surrounded  by  seas,  an  ocean  SDG  is  pertinent,  for 
obvious  reasons.  Seventy  per  cent  of  the  planet’s 
surface is covered by oceans, which are the cornerstone 
of  Earth’s  life  support  system.  The  uncontrolled  and 
increasing  carbonization  of  our  oceans  and  their 
biodiversity  are  genuine  issues  of  concern  and  must 
be  urgently  addressed.  At  the  same  time,  radioactive 
spillovers of land-based nuclear wastes into the oceans, 
especially  those  that  have  followed  recent  incidents, 
must  be  dealt  with  properly  and  prevented  from 
happening  again.  Here,  the  principle  that  the  polluter 
pays  should  be  the  basis  for  efforts  to  clean,  mitigate 
and prevent contamination of the oceans.
Tuvalu 
is  currently  heavily  dependent  on 
imported  fuel  and  petroleum  products  for  electricity 
generation and transportation requirements. That will 
continue  in  both  the  short  and  medium  term.  Many 
recommendations  for  alternative  energy  sources  and 
technologies,  whether  solar,  wind  or  wave,  have  been 
proposed but not fully implemented. Our energy sector 
has  set  itself  the  challenge  of  becoming  100  per  cent 
renewable  by  2020.  We  appreciate  the  support  of  the 
many  donors  we  have  had  for  alternative  renewable 
sources of energy, assistance with formulating energy 
policy and promoting efficient energy sources. Science 
and  technological  capacity  in  Tuvalu  also  remain 
18/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
underdeveloped,  and  we  need  relevant  and  simple 
technologies  that  can  be  made  readily  available  and 
priced effectively, especially for LDCs and SIDS. The 
facilitative  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  repository 
of  such 
the 
Organization’s networks and websites will prove highly 
beneficial.
technologies  and  practices  within 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
The world economic and financial crises are partially 
responsible  for  our  straying  from  the  charted  path. 
However, they brought to light some of the underlying 
issues that had either been overlooked or underestimated 
and  which  turned  out  to  be  important  for  the  overall 
success. 
Finally,  as  we  approach  the  end  of  the  MDGs 
and  embrace  the  SDGs,  we  must  pay  attention  to 
the  nations  with  special  needs,  the  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable, in making every effort to meet the MDGs 
and achieve a smooth transition to the SDGs. The scale 
of the challenges can be addressed only by reforming 
ourselves  —  the  United  Nations  and  each  Member 
country.  Delivering  on  the  future  we  need  and  on 
our  sustainable  goals,  delivering  more  and  delivering 
better,  will  require  increasing  doses  of  great  effort 
and  discipline,  perseverance  and  courage,  tolerance 
and  harmonious  coexistence,  multilateralism  and 
interdependence  on  the  part  of  us,  the  peoples  of  the 
United Nations.
In a couple of days, Tuvalu will celebrate its thirty-
fifth  year  of  independence.  Can  we  tell  our  children 
and  grandchildren  a  story  of  continued  survival  on 
our God-given peaceful islands? Or do we have to tell 
them  that  the  world,  under  the  United  Nations,  that 
noble body, can no longer save their future because of 
climate change and sea-level rise? As with great pride 
we  celebrate  the  continuing  vibrancy  of  democracy 
and the rule of law, and our political independence in 
Tuvalu, we also appeal to the world. Please save Tuvalu 
from climate change. Let the world save Tuvalu in order 
to save itself.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Edward Nalbandyan, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Armenia.
Mr.  Nalbandyan  (Armenia)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would like to join previous speakers in congratulating 
Mr. John William Ashe on his election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and to 
thank the outgoing President, Mr. Vuk Jeremić.
During  the  past  two  decades,  the  international 
the 
community  has  made  great  strides 
development  of  a  cohesive  approach  aimed  at 
addressing 
social  and  economic 
challenges  that  the  international  community  is  facing 
today. We need to analyse our commitments, keeping 
in mind the difficulties that we have encountered while 
the  political, 
towards 
in 
that, 
We  are  all  aware 
the  context  of 
interdependence  and  the  growing  interconnectedness 
of  the  world  economy,  no  country  can  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  isolation.  The 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
enriched  our  understanding  of  the  ways  of  achieving 
the  overall  progress  towards  the  political,  social  and 
economic development.
Armenia welcomes the inclusion of “The post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”  as  the  main 
theme of our deliberations in the current session.
(spoke in English)
Despite 
the  fact 
that  most  of  us  share 
the 
understanding  that  the  elimination  of  violence  and 
terror is essential for building peaceful, sustainable and 
prosperous societies, peace seems to remain an elusive 
phenomenon in many parts of the world. 
Armenia remains alarmed by the worsening of the 
humanitarian situation in Syria. The number of refugees 
Armenia continues to receive already exceeds 10,000, 
but  tens  of  thousands  of  Syrian-Armenians  remain  in 
Syria,  a  country  that  had  become  their  second  home 
after the genocide of 1915, and they are struggling for 
their  survival  in  unbearable  conditions  together  with 
their fellow Syrians.
Armenia  welcomes 
the  unanimous  adoption 
yesterday  of  Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013), 
based  on  the  agreement  reached  in  Geneva  between 
Russian  Foreign  Minister  Lavrov  and  United  States 
Secretary of State Kerry. The resolution could lead to 
the elimination of chemical weapons and the exclusion 
of  their  use  in  Syria  and  pave  the  way  for  a  political 
solution  of  the  Syrian  crisis,  putting  an  end  to  the 
suffering of the Syrian people.
It  is  our  strong  belief  that  there  is  no  alternative 
to  the  peaceful  solution  of  conflicts.  The  resolution 
of  conflicts  requires  political  will  and  determination. 
Three  months  ago,  on  18  June  the  Presidents  of  the 
three  co-Chair  countries  of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
13-48809
19/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
(OSCE) — Russia, United States and France — made a 
new statement on Nagorno Karabakh in the framework 
of the Group of Eight Summit in Enniskillen. 
In  Armenia,  we  welcomed  that  statement  and 
affirmed  that,  like  the  co-Chairs,  we  continued  to 
believe that the elements outlined in the statements of 
the  Heads  of  State  of  the  co-Chair  countries  over  the 
past five years can form the basis for reaching a fair and 
lasting settlement of the conflict. We share the position 
of  the  co-Chair  countries  that  those  elements  should 
be  seen  as  an  integrated  whole  and  that  any  attempt 
to  select  some  elements  over  others  would  make  it 
impossible  to  achieve  a  solution.  We  absolutely  agree 
that  peoples  should  be  prepared  for  peace,  not  war. 
Unfortunately,  to  date  the  Azerbaijani  leadership  has 
been doing just the opposite, increasing warmongering 
and anti-Armenian hate speech on a daily basis, even 
using  the  lofty  rostrum  of  the  United  Nations  for  its 
purposes.
We  absolutely  agree  with  the  Heads  of  the  three 
co-Chair countries — which are also three permanent 
members of the Security Council — that the use of force 
will not resolve the conflict and that only a negotiated 
settlement  can  lead  to  peace  and  stability.  However, 
through  its  unprecedented  accumulation  of  offensive 
weaponry  at  a  massive  scale,  Azerbaijan  seriously 
endangers  regional  and  international  security,  despite 
its membership in the Security Council.
Unlike  Azerbaijan,  Armenia  has  on  several 
occasions  reiterated  its  commitment  to  the  principles 
of international law and, in response to the Enniskillen 
appeal of the Presidents of the United States, the Russian 
Federation  and  France,  once  again  reaffirmed  that 
commitment,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  non-use 
of force or the threat of force, equal rights and the self-
determination of peoples and territorial integrity.
Azerbaijan  keeps  misinterpreting 
the  1993 
resolutions of the Security Council — resolutions 822 
(1993),  853  (1993),  874  (1993)  and  884  (1993)  —  the 
core requirement of which was the immediate cessation 
of all hostilities and hostile acts and the establishment 
of  a  durable  ceasefire.  Azerbaijan  has  not  only  failed 
to  comply  with  the  latter  requirement,  but  further 
intensified  its  aggression  and  the  military  operations 
against  Nagorno  Karabakh  and  Armenia  using 
mercenaries  closely 
terrorist 
organizations.  It  is  not  surprising  that  since  the 
ceasefire agreement was signed in 1994, the mediators, 
to  notorious 
linked 
if 
the 
Azerbaijan 
is  acting  as 
the three permanent members of the Security Council, 
have never made another reference to those resolutions.
international 
community  shared  its  approach  and  as  if  it  shared 
the  approach  of  the  international  community.  In 
reality,  Azerbaijan  continuously  rejects  all  proposals 
of  the  internationally  mandated  OSCE  Minsk  Group 
co-Chair  countries.  Baku  has  rejected  all  versions  of 
the  Basic  Principles  of  the  settlement  of  the  Nagorno 
Karabakh  conflict  proposed  by  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
OSCE  Minsk  Group,  including  those  presented  at 
the  Kazan,  Sochi,  Astrakhan  and  Saint  Petersburg 
summits.  Baku  refuses  not  only  the  Basic  Principles, 
but  also  the  confidence-building  measures  proposed 
by  the  co-Chairs  on  consolidation  of  the  ceasefire, 
withdrawal of the snipers from the line of contact and 
the  establishment  of  a  mechanism  for  investigating 
ceasefire  violations.  Azerbaijan  not  only  obstructs 
confidence-building  measures,  but  also  periodically 
organizes  provocations  on  the  line  of  contact  with 
Nagorno  Karabakh  and  on  the  border  with  Armenia, 
which has resulted in new casualties.
At  the  previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
the  Azerbaijani 
(see  A/67/PV.19),  I  spoke  about 
leadership’s release and glorification of an axe-murderer 
named Ramil Safarov, which was strongly condemned 
by  the  entire  international  community  and  by  the 
human  rights  commissions  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other  international  organizations.  Even  today,  more 
than  a  year  after  Safarov’s  release,  the  Azerbaijani 
leadership  continues  to  declare  that  what  they  did  is 
just  and  right  and  dares  to  criticize  the  stance  of  the 
international community. That clearly demonstrates the 
deepening gap between the Azerbaijani leadership and 
the international community in terms of perceptions of 
what is good and what is bad.
Most  recently,  Azerbaijani  authorities  at 
the 
national level have ostracized the eminent Azerbaijani 
writer Akram Aylisli for publishing a novel in which he 
talks  about  the  pogroms  against  Armenians  in  Baku, 
Sumgait and other parts of Azerbaijan. Aylisli’s books 
were publicly burned, and the writer had to leave the 
country after receiving death threats.
Just  last  week  the  Azerbaijani  leadership  once 
again came up with new threats against Armenia and 
Nagorno  Karabakh  and  made  claims  to  Armenian 
territories,  including  its  nearly  3,000-year-old  capital 
city, Yerevan. Notwithstanding Azerbaijan’s destructive 
20/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
stance, Armenia will continue to make efforts towards 
the  settlement  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict 
exclusively  through  peaceful  means  and  on  the  basis 
of the purposes and principles and norms set forth in 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  provisions  of  the 
statements made by the Presidents of the three co-Chair 
countries’ at L’Aquila, Muskoka, Deauville, Los Cabos 
and Enniskillen.
In  March,  the  Human  Rights  Council  adopted 
by  consensus  a  resolution  initiated  by  Armenia  and 
co-sponsored  by  over  60  countries  on  the  prevention 
of  genocide.  The  recognition,  condemnation  and 
prevention of genocide remain a priority for Armenia, 
and we will take the necessary actions to prevent new 
occurrences of the crime of genocide, while keeping the 
issue of responsibility for crimes against humanity and 
the denial thereof high on its agenda. As the nation that 
survived  the  first  genocide  of  the  twentieth  century, 
Armenia  unequivocally  welcomes  the  clear  position 
adopted by the States Members of the United Nations 
that  precludes  any  possibility  of  immunity  or  pardon 
for perpetrators of crimes against humanity.
In May 2013, Armenia assumed the chairmanship 
of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, 
a  regional  organization  that  is  a  key  partner  of  the 
United Nations in our shared global quest to advance 
the  principles  of  fundamental  freedoms,  the  defence 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  and  the  continuous 
efforts for peace and security.
Cooperation between the two organizations is also 
well established in the fight against racism, xenophobia, 
hate  speech  and  intolerance.  Those  issues  are  also 
among  the  priorities  established  during  Armenia’s 
chairmanship, elaborated in response to the challenges 
that Member States of both the United Nations and the 
Council of Europe are facing today.
Armenia 
is  committed 
to  strengthening 
the 
institutional  capacities  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
regard, we support the United Nations reform process 
and  are  ready  to  contribute  to  it.  We  believe  that  the 
reforms provide an opportunity to enhance the role of 
the Organization in addressing the crucial issues facing 
the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ahmed Teguedi, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Cooperation of Mauritania.
Mr.  Teguedi  (Mauritania)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): 
I  am  particularly  pleased  to  present  our  warmest 
congratulations  to  the  President  on  the  occasion  of 
his  election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  am  convinced  that  he  will 
spare  no  effort  to  strengthen  the  gains  made  and  to 
firmly  establish  international  peace  and  security,  so 
as  to  create  an  international  system  in  which  all  of 
mankind enjoys well-being, stability and progress. The 
President’s  experience  and  political  skills  in  heading 
his country’s Mission for over a decade are also factors 
that make him a natural leader during this session.
I  should  also  like  to  praise  the  efforts  of  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  and  commend  him  for 
his interest in the problems of the African continent and 
his efforts to strengthen the principle of dialogue as an 
effective tool for consultation and the role of the rule of 
law and good governance.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  unflagging  efforts  in  the 
service  of  international  peace  and  security  and  his 
focus  on  climate  change  issues  and  the  fight  against 
famine and deadly diseases, as well as on realizing the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Last  June,  in  the  important  speech  that  the 
President  delivered  to  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
occasion of his election to preside over the sixty-eighth 
session  (see  A/67/PV.87),  he  outlined  his  ambitious 
programme  of  action,  which  takes  into  account  the 
participation  of  women,  youth  and  civil  society  in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda,  the  role  of  South-
South  cooperation,  the  role  of  human  rights  and  the 
rule of law, and the role of information technology and 
communication  in  the  proposed  development  agenda. 
Those  are  important  topics,  and  we  thank  him  for 
including them.
Over the past two decades — in step with the Human 
Development Report  — some developing countries have 
experienced  substantial  economic  change.  However,  the 
majority  of  developing  countries,  especially  the  least 
developed  ones,  remain  very  far  from  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  On  the  threshold 
of  2015,  it  behoves  us  today  to  implement  plans  and 
programmes  that  take  into  consideration  the  failures 
of  the  past  and  the  challenges  of  the  future  and  to 
effectively prepare the post-2015 development agenda. 
In that regard, we call upon the wealthy countries 
of  the  world  to  live  up  to  their  promises  regarding 
the  financing  of  development  programmes  in  those 
developing  countries  that  have  such  pressing  needs. 
13-48809
21/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
We  also  call  upon  those  countries  to  implement  an 
appropriate policy, under the supervision of the United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  and  in  cooperation  with 
the  international  financial  institutions,  that  will  be 
based  primarily  on  the  following:  support  for  health 
and  education  systems;  debt  forgiveness;  the  transfer 
of  the  necessary  technology;  the  improvement  of 
North-South  trade;  the  removal  of  customs  duties  on 
exports  from  the  developing  countries,  especially  the 
least developed countries, to the markets of the North; 
the promotion of South-South cooperation, which will 
probably  strengthen  economic  cooperation  between 
group members; the establishment of new international 
mechanisms  that  will  be  charged  with  overseeing 
regional  complementarity,  strengthening  South-South 
relations, as underscored in the aforementioned Human 
Development  Report,  which  will  facilitate  the  sharing 
of know-how, lessons learned and technology transfer 
between those countries.
Under  the  leadership  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic,  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  our 
Government  is  working  to  improve  the  standard  of 
living  of  our  citizens,  despite  our  limited  resources. 
In  order  to  attain  that  objective,  the  Government 
has  pursued  a  rigorous  educational  policy,  based  on 
compulsory and widespread primary education and the 
strengthening  of  a  modern  secondary  education  with 
free higher education in several different fields. Basic 
schooling is now available in almost all of our villages 
and  cities.  That  was  made  possible  thanks  to  the 
Government  policy  of  limiting  anarchic  urbanization 
by merging numerous villages.
With  regard 
to  secondary  education,  all 
the 
departments throughout the country now have middle 
schools and many have high schools. That has allowed 
the  children  of  people  living  in  remote  villages  to 
continue  their  secondary  schooling.  High  schools 
reserved  for  the  most  promising  students  were  also 
established to take advantage of their talents and steer 
them towards specializations that meet the needs of the 
labour market. Higher education took a large qualitative 
step  forward.  A  university  campus  has  just  been 
completed in Nouakchott. An Islamic studies university 
has been opened in the interior of the country, as well as 
four specialized schools of higher education, including 
the  School  of  Mines,  the  Polytechnic,  the  School  of 
Agricultural  Training  and  Public  Works.  The  Faculty 
of Medicine has been strengthened and endowed with 
the means necessary to cover the shortfall in medical 
personnel  in  our  country,  in  addition  to  the  creation 
of  four  medical  schools  to  train  nurses  and  senior 
technicians.
Health, which goes in line with education, is a major 
challenge  for  developing  countries  and  the  African 
continent  in  particular.  Given  that,  our  Government 
has allocated an important percentage of its budget for 
that vital sector and has created national programmes 
to fight against such deadly diseases as AIDS, malaria 
and  tuberculosis.  In  that  connection,  we  have  created 
four  new  fully  equipped  hospitals  in  various  parts  of 
the  country,  in  addition  to  70  primary-care  clinics. 
We  must  also  note  the  construction  of  a  specialized 
oncology hospital, which is considered to be among the 
most sophisticated in the region. The health-care sector 
also  works  closely  with  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies in organizing ongoing vaccination campaigns 
for children under 5 years of age. 
As  with  most  developing  countries,  our  country 
depends  on  imports  of  basic  goods  from  the  global 
market,  which  weighs  heavily  on  our  balance  sheets, 
especially since the prices of such products are subject 
to fluctuations in the world market. Aware of that, our 
Government  has  pursued  an  economic  and  financial 
policy that would alleviate the effects generated from 
outside.  Our  agricultural  sector  has  therefore  been 
able,  thanks to  the  policy, to  fulfil 60 per cent of the 
country’s rice needs and 37 per cent of its need for other 
grains. Wheat crops, which were recently introduced, 
have begun to produce. 
In that context, a sugar-cane cultivation project was 
launched  to  make  sugar  available  locally.  Generally, 
our Government has worked tirelessly in all sectors to 
ensure that its citizens can live in dignity. A free-trade 
zone has been created in Nouadhibou — the economic 
capital  of  the  country  and  the  third-largest  city  in 
population — which will transform the region into an 
important economic centre benefiting the country and 
the region as a whole.
In  order  to  strengthen  good  governance  and  the 
fight against corruption, the Inspector General and the 
Court of Auditors have been revitalized since President 
Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz  took  office.  Significant 
funds  in  some  sectors  have  been  poorly  managed, 
but  have  been  reimbursed  to  the  State.  Civil  servants 
have been made accountable for the poor allocation of 
certain resources. Agreements were reached to end the 
no-bid contract system. The lack of competitive bidding 
22/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
has  undermined  equity  among  the  various  economic 
drivers of national and international markets.
that  the  States  of  the  Sahel  cannot  tackle  the  scourge 
on their own. 
servants  — 
Transparency  now  prevails  in  the  recruitment 
of 
civil 
competitive 
examinations  —  fostering  equality  among  men  and 
women  and  providing  hope  to  young  people.  Merit-
based candidate selection is now possible, leading to an 
end to nepotism and favouritism.
thanks 
to 
The  Government’s  austerity  policy,  including  its 
reduced administrative budget and increased investment 
budget,  has  contributed  to  the  self-financing  of  the 
majority  of  the  country’s  development  projects.  The 
policy  has  also  led  to  reduced  unemployment,  which 
now hovers around 10 per cent. The policies have also 
contributed to an increased growth rate, which should 
attain, according to current forecasts, more than 6 per 
cent by the end of the year. We have also been preparing 
for  municipal  and  legislative  elections  slated  for  the 
end of the year. That will strengthen good governance 
and allow our citizens to participate in the process of 
defining the country’s future, and setting political and 
economic priorities for our country.
Our  foreign  policy  is  solidly  based  on  a  concern 
for  strengthening  good-neighbourly  relations  and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States. 
We  will  work  with  our  Maghreb  region  —  Arab  and 
African — with a sense of duty towards international 
relations  and  issues  so  as  to  disseminate  a  culture  of 
peace,  encourage  dialogue  and  the  resort  to  wisdom, 
and  facilitate  the  role  of  diplomacy  as  a  means  of 
resolving conflicts and avoiding or ending war.
President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, who has not 
wavered in exerting his utmost efforts, as the Head of 
the African Union Peace and Security Council, to find 
solutions to certain conflicts in the African continent, 
including  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya  and  Mali.  He  has 
played  a  very  important  role,  through  his  presence  at 
subregional  and  international  summits,  focusing  on 
peace and security around the world. 
For a number of years, the African Sahel region has 
been  subjected  to  all  types  of  cross-border  organized 
crime,  including  drug  trafficking,  arms  trafficking, 
illegal  immigration  and  kidnapping.  We  reiterate  our 
call  to  the  international  community  to  support  the 
States  of  the  region  in  tackling  those  dangers,  which 
have recently threatened the very existence of a States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  That  clearly  shows 
Based  on  its  sense  of  duty,  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Mauritania,  which  has  stood  by  Mali  since  the 
beginning  of  the  crisis,  quickly  opened  its  borders 
to  our  Malian  brothers  and  sisters  who  were  seeking 
refuge in our territory. We have provided and continue 
to  provide  shelter  for  those  individuals.  Our  capital, 
Nouakchott,  over  many  months  hosted  a  series  of 
negotiations between the Malian provisional authorities 
and the Azawad groups, which led to the signing of the 
Ougadougou accords, thus facilitating the preparations 
for the presidential elections. We take this opportunity 
to express our sincere congratulations to the people of 
the sister nation of Mali and the hope that the changes 
will  lead  to  a  new  era  of  well-being,  security  and 
progress.
Our  country  strongly  condemns 
the  horrific 
terrorist attack on the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, which 
cost the lives of dozens of individuals.
For  more  than  two  years,  certain  countries  of  the 
Arab region have experienced instability owing to the 
so-called  Arab  Spring.  Our  country,  respectful  of  the 
principle  of  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  other  States,  expresses  its  full  solidarity  with  the 
peoples of those countries. 
With deep concern and worry, we are following the 
most recent developments in the Syrian Arab Republic. 
We  invite  all  stakeholders  to  refrain  from  violence 
and any escalation of violence and, instead, to follow 
the  logic  of  dialogue,  aimed  at  finding  a  peaceful 
solution so as to spare the brotherly Syrian people from 
suffering and tragedy. At the same time, with respect 
to the preservation, territorial integrity and sovereignty 
of the Syrian territory, it is our hope that the mission 
of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States 
on the Syrian crisis, will achieve success. It is our firm 
hope that a swift solution can be found that will bring 
an end to the bloodshed, destruction of infrastructure 
and economic devastation in sisterly Syria.
We hope that the people of Egypt, Yemen, Libya and 
Tunisia  can  quickly  conclude  their  transition  periods 
and  build  democratic  institutions  that  will  guarantee 
the rights and dignity of their citizens in an atmosphere 
of well-being and prosperity.
Our  country  pays  close  attention  to  the  situation 
in  Western  Sahara.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
13-48809
23/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
endeavours of the Secretary-General and his personal 
envoy in their search for a definitive, lasting, fair and 
comprehensive solution that is acceptable to both parties. 
Such a solution would bolster peace and security in the 
region and facilitate the building of a prosperous Arab 
Maghreb that is in step with the legitimate aspirations 
of its people.
The Arab-Israeli conflict is considered a source of 
hostility  and  a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  a  vital 
and critical region of the world. It remains so in spite 
of the legal framework and general conditions for the 
settlement  of  that  dispute  that  have  been  established 
over  the  years  by  a  series  of  Security  Council  and 
General Assembly resolutions. Those foundations were 
recently  further  backed  by  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
based on the land-for-peace principle. In spite of all of 
that, the conflict continues, as it has done for too long.
We  welcome  resolution  67/19,  of  29  November 
2012, whereby the General Assembly granted Palestine 
the status of non-Member observer State in the United 
Nations.  We  hope  that  that  resolution  will  mark  the 
beginning of a new era that will see justice done for the 
Palestinian people and their rights restored through the 
establishment of their independent and sovereign Sate 
along the 4 June 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital. That would put an end to the suffering of the 
Palestinian people, which dates back to the inception of 
our Organization.
Based on the need to ensure justice, credibility and 
equity in the relations between the two parties to that 
conflict, and out of respect for the relevant resolutions 
and decisions under international law, the international 
community should live up to its historic responsibilities 
with regard to Palestine. We reiterate our condemnation 
of  the  ongoing  blockade  against  the  Gaza  Strip,  and 
we  condemn  the  massacres  perpetrated  by  the  Israeli 
war  machine  against  Palestinian  civilians  and  the 
destruction  of  their  facilities.  We  welcome  efforts, 
most  recently  by  the  United  States  Administration, 
seeking the resumption of negotiations between the two 
parties. We hope that those efforts will contribute to the 
realization  of  the  Palestinian  people’s  simplest  right: 
the establishment of their independent State.
through 
the 
The  commitments  made  by 
international 
community 
the  United  Nations  will  go 
unrealized if the people of the world are unable to fulfil 
their potential for development, especially in developing 
countries, to live lives of dignity and freedom, and to 
enjoy justice and equality — the very lofty principles 
for which our Organization was created. These are the 
only guarantees of our success.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Aurelia Frick, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for Education and Minister for Cultural Affairs of the 
Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
convey  the  sincere  condolences  of  the  people  and  the 
Government  of  Liechtenstein  to  all  those  affected  by 
the  abhorrent  terrorist  attack  in  Kenya.  Our  thoughts 
are with the victims and their families.
For  the  second  year  in  a  row,  the  Assembly  is 
meeting under the shadow of the crisis in Syria. It is the 
challenge of our time. No other situation in the recent 
past  has  so  dramatically  tested  the  United  Nations 
ability to respond. And none has so starkly illustrated 
the limitations and the weaknesses of our multilateral 
system.  Thousands  of  people  have  been  killed  in  a 
brutal  war,  many  of  them  women  and  children,  and 
many of them victims of war crimes and crimes against 
humanity. Regional stability has been eroded. Millions 
of  people  are  depending  on  humanitarian  assistance, 
which  is  often  impossible  to  deliver.  Humanitarian 
access  to  those  most  in  need,  including  the  sick  and 
the  wounded,  is  being  systematically  denied  owing 
to  cynical  political  calculations.  The  humanitarian 
agencies have become a pawn in that perverted game.
Sadly,  it  took  a  particularly  outrageous  act  to 
generate  action  in  the  Security  Council:  the  use  of 
chemical weapons, with hundreds of victims, including 
countless children. We are encouraged to see that the 
Council  has  decided  to  ensure  the  destruction  of  all 
chemical  weapons  in  Syria.  That  should  also  provide 
new momentum to ensure that all remaining States join 
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention.  Indeed,  it  should 
be  a  step  towards  the  elimination  of  all  weapons  of 
mass destruction worldwide.
The use of chemical weapons in Syria has marked a 
watershed in the conflict. Nevertheless, that issue must 
not  divert  our  attention  away  from  the  core  problem: 
the fighting in Syria continues unabated, with blatant 
disregard for the civilian population and international 
humanitarian law. Weapons and ammunition cross the 
borders more easily than humanitarian assistance.
The recent breakthrough on the issue of chemical 
weapons  shows  that  political  progress  is  possible. 
24/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
Hopefully,  that  will  create  the  momentum  for  the 
Council  to  finally  live  up  to  its  responsibility:  to  end 
the  supply  of  weapons,  pressure  the  parties  to  the 
conflict to accept a ceasefire, work towards a political 
solution and prepare the ground for accountability for 
past crimes. There may be different views on who used 
chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  but  everyone  agrees  that 
that use constitutes a crime against humanity and a war 
crime that must not go unpunished. It must therefore be 
put  before  a  court  of  law,  together  with  the  countless 
other  crimes  committed,  for  an  independent  and 
impartial investigation.
Syria  is  our  biggest  collective  failure  with  regard 
to  accountability  in  recent  history.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  been  operational  for  more 
than  a  decade  now.  During  that  time,  we  have  not 
witnessed  any  other  situation  in  which  crimes  have 
been committed so systematically, on such a scale and 
for  such  a  long  time  without  any  adequate  response 
from the international community.
It  is  well  documented  that  crimes  have  been  and 
continue to be committed by all sides. That is precisely 
the type of crisis for which we established the ICC, and 
it is precisely the type of situation that led us to give 
the Security Council the competence to refer situations 
to  the  Court.  In  its  recent  resolution  2118  (2013),  the 
Council  made  a  limited  statement  on  accountability. 
More determined and more concrete action must follow. 
A  referral  to  the  ICC  will  ultimately  also  contribute 
to  a  viable  political  future  for  the  country,  create 
accountability for those crimes, provide redress for the 
victims and establish the truth.
The  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  has  been  the  most  significant  development 
in  international  law  for  decades.  Only  the  adoption 
of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  earlier  this  year  has  come 
even  close  in  terms  of  significance.  With  122  States 
parties, the Court has attracted a strong following. But 
the  emergence  of  an  effective  international  judicial 
mechanism  also  poses  challenges.  We  have  mandated 
the Court to investigate and prosecute the most serious 
crimes under international law. And we have asked it 
to  focus  on  those  perpetrators  who  bear  the  greatest 
responsibility.  Therefore,  it  cannot  be  surprising  to 
anyone  that  the  Court  is  dealing  with  individuals  in 
leadership  positions.  We  are  satisfied  that  the  Court 
follows  the  evidence,  and  that  it  does  not  shy  away 
from  investigating  and  prosecuting  those  in  powerful 
positions. It is therefore implementing its mandate and 
not politicizing the work it does.
Recent  events  in  Syria  have  reminded  us  of  the 
importance  of  the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute 
adopted  in  Kampala  in  2010.  We  added  provisions 
that criminalize the use of poisonous and other gases, 
whether  they  are  used  in  international  or  in  internal 
armed  conflict.  It  is  troubling  that  those  provisions 
have become relevant so quickly. But the biggest steps 
forward are amendments to crimes of aggression. They 
complement the prohibition of the illegal use of force 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
most  serious  forms  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  by  one 
State against another will become a punishable offence 
before  the  ICC.  The  Court  will  thereby  help  enforce 
the core principle of the rule of law at the international 
level. With ratifications by Andorra, Cyprus, Slovenia 
and  Uruguay  earlier  this  week,  we  have  come  a 
significant  step  closer  to  our  common  goal,  namely, 
the  activation  of  the  Court’s  policy  over  crimes  of 
aggression in 2017. Liechtenstein was the first country 
to ratify the amendments, and we will continue to assist 
in the ratification process.
Liechtenstein firmly believes in the responsibility 
to protect populations from crimes of atrocity. Clearly, 
we  have  much  work  left  to  do  in  order  to  put  that 
norm  into  practice.  Our  inability  to  respond  to  the 
crisis in Syria demonstrates a crucial weakness in the 
system: the use of the veto, or its threat, in a manner 
incompatible with the purposes of the United Nations. 
That can make the Security Council irrelevant when it 
is  most  urgently  needed.  During  this  general  debate, 
the  President  of  France  suggested  a  common  code  of 
conduct for Permanent Members of the Security Council 
(see A/68/PV.5). We strongly agree with that proposal. 
All five permanent members should be able to give the 
world  one  public  commitment,  that  is,  that  they  will 
not  use  their  veto  to  block  action  aimed  at  ending  or 
preventing crimes of atrocity. That would be crucial to 
enhancing  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and  credibility. 
Unfortunately, we have not yet reached the point where 
we  are  able  to  bring  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  in  line  with  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the 
twenty-first century. But the Council is also struggling 
to adjust its working methods to new challenges in order 
to better include the perspective of non-members in its 
decisions,  which  is  a  crucial  ingredient  for  effective 
leadership.  We  will  therefore  continue  our  efforts  to 
13-48809
25/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
promote  accountability  and  transparency  in  the  work 
of the Council.
of global impact and for setting standards that apply to 
all. This is our General Assembly. Let us use it.
The  rule  of  law  and  accountability  have  made 
steady  progress  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations. 
Nevertheless, 
that  progress  remains  abstract  for 
countless individuals who are vulnerable to atrocities. 
Sexual  violence  in  conflict  has  become  a  rampant 
phenomenon, with women and girls at particular risk of 
becoming victims. The ICC has made the fight against 
that  scourge  a  priority.  Most  important,  though,  we 
must do our part as States. Liechtenstein fully supports 
the United Kingdom’s initiative to take greater action 
to  end  sexual  violence  during  conflict.  The  fight 
against  sexual  violence  must  also  play  a  central  role 
in the larger context of the women, peace and security 
agenda.  All  of  that  requires  stronger  emphasis  on  the 
need  to  empower  women.  Many  of  our  stated  goals, 
from sustainable development to lasting peace, require 
the  full  participation  of  women.  Otherwise,  they  are 
simply not attainable. In that regard, I am grateful for 
the leadership of the Secretary-General. We should all 
rally behind his call to make the twenty-first century 
the century for women.
The upcoming negotiations on the post-2015 agenda 
will be a crucial test of our ability to tackle challenges 
that will define the lives of future generations. We look 
forward to the leadership of the President of the General 
Assembly  in  that  process.  It  is  of  course  too  early  to 
offer a final assessment of the Millennium Development 
Goals. But we know that important unfinished business 
will  be  carried  over  into  the  sustainable  development 
goals. Those new goals must be much more than just an 
extension of past efforts. They must aim at eradicating 
poverty and hunger once and for all, and finally ensure 
full  equality  between  men  and  women.  They  must 
therefore be firmly rooted in human rights, respect for 
the rule of law and principles of good governance. The 
sustainable development goals will ensure sustainability 
only  if  they  approach  development  in  a  holistic  way. 
Most important, once we have agreed on our new goals, 
we need to become more serious in our commitment to 
achieving them. Let us therefore develop and apply an 
effective monitoring mechanism to show the world that 
we are indeed serious.
The  post-2015  process  will  also  be  decisive  in 
moving  the  General  Assembly  back  to  the  centre  of 
multilateral policy-making. Only the “G-193” provides 
the legitimacy and universality required for decisions 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Abubaker  Al-Qirbi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  the  Government  of  National  Reconciliation  of  the 
Republic of Yemen.
Mr.  Al-Qirbi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me, at the outset to extend sincere my congratulations 
to  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. We are confident 
that he will ably guide the work of the Assembly during 
this  session.  I  also  extend  my  thanks  and  gratitude 
to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  President  of  the  Assembly  at 
the  previous  session,  for  his  efforts.  We  wish  to 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  wise 
leadership  of  the  Organization  and  for  his  interest  in 
the developments taking place in the world and in my 
country. 
It  is  a  felicitous  coincidence  that  the  sixty-eighth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  coincides  with  the 
celebrations in my country in honour of the September 
and October revolutions. Allow me, from this important 
international  rostrum,  to  congratulate  the  great  and 
valiant  people  of  Yemen  on  this  important  occasion 
and to commend the country and people of Yemen for 
their  resilience  and  their  sacrifices  in  emancipating 
themselves  from  the  yoke  of  colonization,  injustice, 
oppression and despotism. 
I also wish to congratulate the people of Yemen for 
wisely and patiently forging ahead on the path of change 
and modernization for more than 50 years and for their 
determination  to  rid  themselves  of  all  the  remnants 
of  the  past.  I  commend  them  on  their  stewardship  of 
the  historic  political  change,  chief  among  them  the 
implementation of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) 
initiative, with the support of international and regional 
communities.  From  this  rostrum,  I  wish  to  commend 
my  country’s  youth  for  its  leadership  throughout  the 
transition  process  in  building  institutions,  enhancing 
and promoting freedom and democracy, and building a 
new Yemen where justice, liberty and good governance 
prevail. 
The values of justice, freedom and equality, respect 
for human rights and the maintenance of international 
peace and security are the main pillars and principles 
on which the United Nations was established. Because 
of  our  firm  belief  in  those  values  and  principles,  we 
have always sought to implement and promote United 
26/28 
13-48809
28/09/2013 
A/68/PV.19
Nations instruments and to support peaceful coexistence 
among  nations.  Perhaps  the  lofty  and  noble  purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and all its instruments served as inspiration in 
the political settlement and the comprehensive national 
dialogue that we have been pursuing for more than six 
months.
Those purposes and principles are also reflected in 
two aspects of the current situation. First is our desire 
for coexistence and consensus, our rejection of violence 
and  our  preference  for  the  language  of  dialogue  and 
logic  and  reason.  The  second  aspect  is  the  fact  that 
Yemen  is  considered  a  unique  model  that  should  be 
followed, given the tremendous change being witnessed 
in our region. The acute crisis that befell Yemen in 2011 
reflected  internal  understanding  and  tolerance  and  a 
desire for coordination with regional and international 
partners. 
In  that  context,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  thanks 
and appreciation to all those who stood by the people 
of Yemen and by the political settlement embodied in 
the Gulf initiative, chief among them the Custodian of 
the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz 
Al-Saud; the leaders of the Gulf Cooperation Council 
and  the  GCC  Secretary  General,  Mr.  Abdul  Latif  bin 
Rashid Al Zayani. I also extend my thanks to Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and to Security Council members 
for visiting Yemen on two occasions. 
As  my  country  is  a  unique  model  among  the 
countries in which the Arab Spring is unfolding, those 
visits have enhanced the new approach, which is based 
on the GCC initiative and Security Council resolutions 
on Yemen. We thank the five permanent members of the 
Security Council for their unified vision with regard to 
Yemen,  which  made  it  possible  for  us  to  forge  ahead 
with  the  political  process  and  crown  it  with  success. 
We  also  extend  our  appreciation  to  the  League  of 
Arab States, the European Union, Germany and all the 
relevant international organizations and institutions, as 
well as to the Special Adviser of the Secretary-General 
on Yemen, Mr. Jamal Benomar, for his efforts to achieve 
reconciliation between the parties in Yemen. 
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  my  country  has  made 
great strides in the implementation of the GCC initiative 
and its mechanisms. We are now turning to the second 
phase, that of concluding the work of the comprehensive 
National Dialogue and forging ahead with our plan to 
shape our future. The results of this endeavour will lay 
the foundations for the establishment of a new, modern 
Yemen  where  democracy,  the  peaceful  transfer  of 
power, the promotion of freedom, justice, partnership, 
equality and equal opportunities for all citizens prevail. 
Those  foundations  will  enhance  the  authority  of  the 
State, the rule of law, security, stability and the unity 
of Yemen. 
We  are  also  forging  ahead  with  strengthening 
security and stability in our country and restructuring 
the military and security institutions, so as to bolster 
their  main  national  task  —  to  be  loyal  to  the  State 
rather than to parties or individuals. We are certain that 
our brethren and our friends will assist us in our new 
endeavour, namely, the drafting of the new constitution 
and the holding of a referendum on it, as well as in our 
preparations for the next presidential and parliamentary 
elections. 
The  achievements  being  made  and  that  will  be 
made, in the ongoing political process depend heavily 
on the support of the international community and on 
enhanced  partnership  and  cooperation  between  the 
international  community  and  Yemen,  especially  as 
there  are  internal  and  external  parties  that  continue 
to attack the will of the Yemeni people. Those parties 
are  making  every  effort  to  obstruct  the  achievement 
of political settlements and to target all the factors of 
stability  and  the  foundations  of  development  in  my 
country. Such acts require the appropriate international 
measures  so  as  to  deter  and  punish  all  those  who  are 
trying to defeat this unique model in the region. 
There are a multitude of factors at play, particularly 
the  increasing  unemployment  rate,  growing  levels 
of  poverty,  and  poor  social  services  in  general.  All 
those factors exacerbate instability and create a fertile 
environment  for  the  actions  of  extremist  groups  such 
as  Al-Qaida.  However,  eliminating  them  effectively 
requires all kinds of logistical, financial and technical 
support  through  practical  programmes  and  plans  that 
do  address  not  only  the  symptoms,  but  also  the  root 
causes of those phenomena. 
We  need  the  international  community’s  support 
in 
implementing  our  national  counter-terrorism 
strategy. That is why the fulfilment of pledges by donor 
countries and the Friends of Yemen must be accelerated, 
particularly since the Government of Yemen has been 
working  in  partnership  with  donors  to  earmark  and 
allocate all those funds to various development areas. 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  our 
donors, especially those who have already made good 
13-48809
27/28
A/68/PV.19 
28/09/2013
on their pledges and financial commitments to Yemen. 
That  is  particularly  important  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  Yemen,  owing  to  its  geographic  location,  social 
composition  and  economic  status,  has  been  plagued 
by various problems and challenges. They include the 
activities  of  Al-Qaida  and  of  cross-border  organized 
crime  and  national  and  international  criminal  groups 
trafficking  in  drugs,  weapons  and  people,  as  well  as 
the  piracy  off  Yemen’s  coasts.  Addressing  all  those 
problems  requires  international  cooperation  for  the 
security of the country and the region as a whole.
We would also like to bring up the issue of refugees 
in  Yemen,  especially  from  the  Horn  of  Africa.  We 
have  been  hosting  more  one  million  of  them,  with 
all  the  economic,  social  and  security  difficulties  that 
such a situation entails. We are therefore calling on the 
international community and relevant organizations to 
help us to deal with the issue and mitigate its negative 
impact on Yemen. We must find new ways and means 
to help the Government care for the refugees and help 
them  to  return  to  their  homes,  especially  since  those 
countries  have  lately  seen  their  stability  restored  to 
some degree.
Conflicts  and  bloody  events,  especially  in  the 
Middle East, are contrary to the lofty goals of the United 
Nations,  which  is  why  the  international  community 
must revisit the structure and working methods of the 
Organization and make the reforms necessary to enable 
it  to  effectively  discharge  its  responsibilities  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
to revitalize its role. In that regard, we should mention 
the despair and frustration of many Arab and Muslim 
nations  over  the  failure  to  end  the  Israeli  occupation 
of  Palestine,  arrive  at  a  just  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict and put a stop to all the occupying 
Power’s oppressive measures and practices and attempts 
to Judaize the holy city of Jerusalem, expand settlement 
activities,  detain  Palestinian  citizens  and  excavate 
illegally around the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
We  also  wish  to  denounce  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons,  especially  in  Syria,  by  any  party.  We 
call  on  all  the  parties  in  the  Syrian  conflict  to  stop 
the  bloodshed,  agree  to  a  dialogue  and  to  work 
towards  a  political  settlement  and  reconciliation 
and  reconstruction.  We  call  on  the  international  and 
regional parties concerned to intensify their efforts to 
achieve a peaceful settlement of the crisis. A “Geneva 
II” conference should be convened as soon as possible 
in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the  violence,  killings  and 
bloodshed  in  Syria.  Recent  events  have  demonstrated 
the challenges facing the United Nations in this area, 
particularly 
the  disagreement  between 
permanent members of the Security Council, which was 
a pretext for certain groups to opt for unilateral action 
outside the international legitimacy represented by the 
United Nations. The Council needs thorough reform for 
it to be able to carry out its primary task, which is the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
the peaceful settlement of conflicts.
regarding 
Concerning  the  brotherly  country  of  Somalia 
and  our  support  for  it,  we  call  on  the  international 
community to continue to stand by it in order to enable 
it to overcome its long legacy of conflict and suffering.
Finally, I would like to thank the President and the 
Secretary-General once again.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
28/28 
13-48809
