United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
50th plenary meeting
Monday, 11 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.50
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Typhoon in the Philippines
The  President:  Before  proceeding  to  the  items 
on the agenda, I would like, on behalf of the General 
Assembly, to extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt 
condolences to the Government and the people of the 
Philippines for the tragic loss of life and damage that 
have resulted from the recent typhoon. Today’s solemn 
gathering reiterates the outpouring of condolences and 
solidarity  of  the  international  community  with  the 
Philippines in its hour of grief.
I now invite representatives to stand and observe a 
minute of silence in tribute to the memory of those who 
lost their lives.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
Agenda items 9 and 14 (continued)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council (A/68/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/229)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/736)
The  President: 
to 
resolution 58/316, of 1 July 2004, the Assembly, on the 
that,  pursuant 
I 
recall 
recommendation  of  the  General  Committee,  decided 
at  its  1st  plenary  meeting,  on  18  September  2013,  to 
consider  agenda  item  9  in  its  entirety  in  plenary,  on 
the understanding that the administrative, programme 
and budgetary aspects should be dealt with by the Fifth 
Committee.  At  the  same  meeting,  the  Assembly  took 
note of the clarification that, in implementing resolution 
58/316  to  consider  agenda  item  9  in  its  entirety  in 
plenary,  the  relevant  parts  of  Chapter  I  of  the  report 
that are deal with agenda items already allocated to the 
Main Committees will be considered by the Committee 
concerned for final action by the General Assembly.
In connection with agenda item 14, members will 
recall  that,  pursuant  to  General  Assembly  resolution 
57/270 B, the Assembly decided to consider, under the 
item, the chapters of the annual report of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  relevant  to  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and summits, including through the participation in its 
discussions of the President of the Council.
Under agenda item 9, the Assembly has before it the 
report of the Economic and Social Council circulated in 
document A/68/3. Under the same item, the Assembly 
also  has  before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General, 
circulated  in  document  A/68/229,  transmitting  the 
report of the Executive Director of the United Nations 
Population  Fund  on  the  United  Nations  Population 
Award. Under agenda item 14, the Assembly has before 
it  a  report  by  the  Secretary-General  circulated  in 
document A/67/736.
Permit me now to make a brief statement.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-55626 (E)
*1355626*
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
It  is  my  pleasure  to  once  again  welcome  the 
President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
introduce the 2013 report of the Economic and Social 
Council,  which  will  serve  as  a  complement  to  last 
week’s  informal  briefing  on  the  strengthening  of  that 
body.  During  that  briefing,  many  delegations  shared 
their observations and perspectives, and my team and 
I have taken due note. In the sixty-eighth session, we 
will  seek  to  reinforce  cooperation  and  coordination 
between the presidencies of the General Assembly and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  accordance  with 
resolution  68/1  on  the  strengthening  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council and resolution 67/290 on the format 
and  organizational  arrangements  of  the  High-level 
Political Forum.
The  report  that  will  be  introduced  today  closes 
an important cycle in the work of the Council, which 
will  undergo  significant  changes  next  year  as  a 
result  of  the  aforementioned  resolution  68/1.  During 
the  2013  session,  the  Council  realized  significant 
accomplishments  through  its  high-level  coordination, 
operational,  humanitarian  and  general  segments,  as 
well as through the work and outcomes of its subsidiary 
bodies.
The  2013  Economic  and  Social  Council  report 
provides  information  on  a  wide  number  of  topics 
that  either  call  for  action  by  the  General  Assembly 
or  are  simply  brought  to  its  attention.  I  invite  all 
Member  States,  United  Nations  system  organizations 
and  observers  to  carefully  analyse,  take  stock  of  and 
subsequently implement those outcomes. Specifically, I 
would like to highlight the results of the Council’s 2013 
substantive session, which was held in Geneva last July. 
That session included a high-level segment focused on 
how  science,  technology,  innovation  and  culture  can 
contribute  to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and sustainable development in general.
Two new noteworthy elements from that ministerial 
segment were the national voluntary presentations and 
the  thematic  debate  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Those 
informative  discussions  and  exchanges  provided 
insights  into  the  preparations  for  and  discussions 
during the General Assembly’s special event to follow 
up on efforts made towards achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals, which was held this past September.
It is worth underscoring three key messages drawn 
from  the  2013  session  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s work in reviewing the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  They  are,  first,  that 
the  “silo”  approach  in  implementing  the  environment 
and development agendas needs to be addressed. That 
idea was fully incorporated into the proceedings of the 
inaugural meeting of the High-level Political Forum and 
in the outcome document of the special event. Secondly, 
the global partnership for development must be renewed 
in order to support the post-2015 development agenda, 
and that requires effective accountability and monitoring 
at all levels. Thirdly, an integrated development agenda 
requires  coherent  and  responsive  institutions  at  all 
levels. Ensuring integrated and coordinated follow-up 
and review of the implementation of the outcomes from 
the major United Nations conferences in the economic, 
social, environmental and related fields will be a central 
challenge for the success of the post-2015 development 
agenda.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  the  theme  for  the 
forthcoming  session  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  will  focus  on  the  comprehensive  assessment 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  theme, 
together  with  the  2014  meeting  of  the  High-level 
Political Forum, will provide an excellent opportunity 
for  all  relevant  stakeholders  to  engage  in  collectively 
forging the post-2015 development agenda. Resolution 
68/1,  which  calls  for  the  most  far-reaching  reform  of 
the Council since 1991, will strengthen the Economic 
and Social Council’s contributions to the new agenda, 
and the General Assembly stands ready to support its 
speedy and full implementation.
I look forward to continued collaboration between 
the  Assembly  and  the  Council  throughout  the  current 
session,  and  my  hope  and  expectation  is  that  by 
enhancing  our  work  together  we  will  produce  more 
meaningful outcomes.
I now give the floor to the President of the Economic 
and Social Council, His Excellency Mr. Néstor Osorio, 
to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.
Mr. Osorio (Colombia), President of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow  me  at 
the  outset  to  align  myself  with  the  President’s  words 
and the General Assembly’s sentiments concerning the 
terrible tragedy that has struck the Philippines in recent 
days, with immense human and physical damage, and to 
express on my own behalf and of that of the Economic 
and Social Council our most heartfelt condolences.
2/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
It  is  an  honour  and  a  pleasure  for  me  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  to  introduce  the  report  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for 2013 (A/68/3).
The  year  2013  has  been  an  important  one  for  the 
Economic and Social Council. The General Assembly’s 
consideration of resolution 61/16, on strengthening the 
Economic and Social Council, established a framework 
for  the  Council’s  work  over  the  year.  The  special 
ministerial meeting of the Economic and Social Council, 
held in September 2012, provided substantive guidance 
to that strategic redesign. Those efforts culminated in 
the  adoption  of  resolution  68/1,  which  has  led  to  the 
most sweeping reform of the Council since 1991. The 
implementation of that resolution’s provisions is a top 
priority  for  the  Council,  which  continues  to  strive  to 
further strengthen the Council and its functioning.
to 
its 
improve 
contribution 
In  this  context,  in  2013,  the  Council  addressed 
several  ways 
to 
development.  In  particular,  the  Council  focused  on 
how  it  conceptualizes  its  role  and  on  its  contribution 
to  the  post-2015  framework,  including  its  possible 
role  in  implementation  monitoring  and  supervision. 
The  Council  also  focused  on  how  to  better  fulfil  its 
functions  in  service  to  its  purpose  by  improving  its 
working methods and supervision of subsidiary bodies. 
It  also  worked  to  improve  its  interaction  with  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the Second and Third 
Committees of the General Assembly.
The Council will continue to focus on substantive 
issues within the framework of sustainable development, 
as was the case with the annual ministerial review of 
science,  technology  and  innovation,  the  potential  of 
culture,  productive  capacity,  employment  and  decent 
work.  The  Council  will  also  continue  to  deepen  its 
dialogue  on  international  cooperation  to  promote 
greater accountability.
I would now like to briefly highlight the Council’s 
main advances and overall achievements.
The 2013 high-level segment of the Council, held 
in  July  in  Geneva,  enjoyed  significant  participation. 
The annual ministerial review brought together a wide 
range of stakeholders and helped to expand the United 
Nations development programme. The review focused 
on science, technology and innovation, and the potential 
of  culture,  for  promoting  sustainable  development 
and  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
I  wish  to  commend  in  particular  the  Governments  of 
France, Nigeria, Peru and Viet Nam for their invaluable 
voluntary  national  presentations.  They  provided 
valuable  information  on  their  success  factors  and 
lessons  learned.  The  voluntary  national  presentations 
have become a vital platform for the exchange of best 
practices and lessons learned at the national level.
inform 
the  Assembly 
I  note  that  the  ministerial  declaration  that  was  to 
be the outcome of the work of the high-level segment 
in July was subject to a sensible and detailed analysis 
and  negotiating  process,  in  which  conclusions  and 
recommendations  of  great  significance  were  reached. 
However,  I  must 
the 
negotiations have not yet been concluded, and member 
States  have  asked  me  for  a  few  additional  days  to 
attempt to smooth over the differences that persist on 
certain aspects of the ministerial declaration. I ask for 
the  Assembly’s  indulgence  and  patience,  and  I  hope 
that  within  two  or  three  weeks  the  President  of  the 
Assembly will grant me a brief pause in the Assembly’s 
work to announce the final developments on this issue, 
which I hope will be positive.
that 
During 
the  coordination  segment,  we  were 
reminded  that  international  agreements  should  be 
subject to effective monitoring in order to assess their 
implementation  in  terms  of  promoting  sustainable 
development.  As  part  of  these  efforts,  we  focused 
on  monitoring  last  year’s  ministerial  declaration  on 
productive capacity, employment and decent work, and 
on financing for development.
This  year’s  operational  activities  segment  gave 
Member States the opportunity to engage in a dialogue 
about  the  changing  nature  of  the  commitments  to 
promote  development  and  pending  changes  in  the 
way  that  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  system 
are  carried  out.  The  United  Nations  must  help  in  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  in  the  elaboration  of  a  post-2015  development 
framework.
Although in general participants were encouraged 
by  the  progress  made 
  in  the  implementation  of 
resolution  67/226,  on  the  quadrennial  comprehensive 
policy review of 2012, Member States expressed their 
wish that the United Nations system step up measures 
in  several  areas,  including  the  following:  first,  the 
strengthening  of  national  institutions  and  capacities; 
secondly,  the  simplification  and  harmonization  of 
business practices and the publication of reports; thirdly, 
the  full  implementation  of  the  “Delivering  as  one” 
initiative;  fourthly,  reducing  unnecessary  competition 
13-55626
3/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
for  funds  at  the  national  level;  and  fifthly,  reviewing 
the role of United Nations resident coordinators.
In  the  2013  humanitarian  affairs  segment,  we 
examined  how  the  United  Nations,  Governments,  the 
private  sector,  affected  communities  and  other  new 
agents  such  as  the  volunteer  community,  can,  acting 
collectively, adapt and better respond to the changing 
humanitarian  environment.  That  helped  to  promote 
dialogue for the World Humanitarian Summit to be held 
in 2015.
important 
The  general  segment  this  year  allowed  us  to 
better  appreciate  various 
issues,  such 
as  the  implementation  of  the  10-year  framework 
of  programmes  on  sustainable  consumption  and 
production patterns, provided for at the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  which 
reaffirmed  the  Council’s  role  in  issues  related  to 
sustainable development.
Regarding  the  link  between  peace  and  security, 
the Council considered the experience gained from the 
transition of some African countries that had emerged 
from conflict, based on the lessons learned in various 
cases, including that of South Sudan. Haiti continued to 
occupy a central place in our activities. We examined 
the  tangible  progress  and  the  obstacles  that  still  exist 
there and extended the mandate of the Ad Hoc Advisory 
Group on Haiti. In so doing, the Council identified the 
necessary scope for deepening its relationship with the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  we  will  soon  hold  a 
joint meeting to review those agenda items.
During  the  thematic  debate  of  the  Council,  and 
as  a  contribution  of  the  Council  to  the  special  event 
to  follow  up  on  efforts  made  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  development 
agenda  post-2015,  which  was  organized  by 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  in  September,  the 
general opinion was that this agenda should be based 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  focused 
on sustainable development. That effort would need to 
consist  in  part  in  promoting  the  integration  between 
environmental and socioeconomic development issues 
instead of viewing them as separate categories.
The Council also stressed that the global partnership 
for development should be renewed to support the new 
development agenda and needs to be accompanied by 
sufficient financial support. It sent a clear message on 
the  need  for  effective  accountability  and  an  effective 
monitoring framework at all levels in order to ensure that 
the post-2015 agenda will lead to tangible and concrete 
results.  To  support  the  new  post-2015  development 
agenda effectively, the United Nations as a whole needs 
to ensure that it is fit to accomplish the work.
The  United  Nations  will  need  to  continue  to 
strengthen  its  role  in  improving  global  dialogue  and 
policymaking.  It  will  be  necessary  to  streamline  the 
work of the United Nations system, both vertically and 
horizontally,  especially  in  setting  new  global  norms 
and  standards.  The  Organization  will  need  to  deepen 
its operational oversight role and the linkages between 
the normative and operational aspects of development.
I  believe  that  with  the  reform  adopted  by  the 
Assembly,  the  Council  is  prepared  to  assume  its 
responsibilities  to  fulfil  those  roles.  The  Council 
also welcomes the decision to convene the High-level 
Political Forum on Sustainable Development, recently 
established  under  the  auspices  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, to advance sustainable development and 
to deepen the Council’s role as a platform for sustainable 
development  and  in  integrating  its  three  dimensions. 
With the new intergovernmental structure, the General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  and 
the  High-level  Political  Forum  are  well  positioned  to 
contribute  to  monitoring  and  global  accountability  in 
the post-2015 era.
The  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
recently  adopted  resolution  68/1  will  be  a  priority 
for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  it  continues 
to  address  progress  towards  the  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, to shape the post-2015 agenda, and 
to play its fundamental role in addressing the problems 
and  concerns  of  countries  in  special  situations.  The 
Council remains fully committed to that work.
the 
to  guide 
To conclude, allow me to affirm that our collective  
relevance  and  ability 
international 
community  and  States  on  a  path  to  development  that 
is  more  balanced  and  more  inclusive  is  a  historic 
undertaking  that  requires  us  to  act  consistently  and 
in  coordination  at  the  multilateral  level.  We  have  a 
historic opportunity of immense dimensions, which we 
must assume by agreeing policies that will lead to the 
sustainable  development  that  we  advocate  so  that  our 
planet will be better preserved and humankind can live 
in better conditions.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for his briefing.
4/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
Mr. Thomson (Fiji): On behalf of the Group of 77 
and China, I wish to thank the Secretary-General for the 
report contained in document A/67/736 and to welcome 
the report of the Economic and Social Council for 2013, 
contained in document A/68/3. At the outset, the Group 
would like to recognize the dynamic leadership of the 
President  of  the  Council,  Ambassador  Néstor  Osorio, 
and his Bureau in guiding the work of the Council in 
2013. Our gratitude also goes to the Secretariat staff for 
their hard work, as well as to all the facilitators of draft 
resolutions for their tireless efforts.
the  special  high-level  meeting  of 
We  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the  various 
meetings  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  Council, 
including 
the 
Economic and Social Council with the Bretton Woods 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; 
the special meeting on external debt sustainability and 
development; and the special meeting on international 
cooperation  in  tax  matters.  Those  meetings  have 
provided  us  with  the  opportunity  to  review  and 
strengthen  the  relationship  between  the  Council  and 
other  stakeholders  through  constructive  debates  on 
important global development issues.
While the Group welcomes the report of the President 
of Economic and Social Council, we note with concern 
that work is still pending on the Council’s substantive 
session. We regret that, three and half months after its 
July session, we are still not in a position to adopt the 
coordination segment resolution or the 2012 ministerial 
declaration.  The  Group  considers 
the  ministerial 
declaration  to  be  a  significant  document,  especially 
in  the  light  of  the  importance  of  science,  technology, 
innovation  and  culture  as  both  enablers  and  drivers 
for  promoting  sustainable  development  and  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We urge 
the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
continue  his  leadership  to  guide  members  towards 
achieving a consensual outcome as soon as possible.
With  reference  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  implementation  of  resolution  61/16, 
on  the  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  concurs  with  its 
recommendation  that  the  Council  needs  to  transform 
issues-oriented,  knowledge-based, 
itself 
stakeholder-friendly 
intergovernmental  body.  We 
believe  that  the  Council  should  play  a  pivotal  role  in 
the  United  Nations,  especially  in  view  of  the  need 
to  accelerate  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  to 
into  an 
elaborate  the  development  goals  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
The  Group  holds  the  view  that  the  interrelated 
challenges  of  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable 
development are at the heart of the Council’s mandate. 
The strengthening of the Economic and Social Council 
should be aimed at making the Council a more relevant 
and  responsive  multilateral  intergovernmental  body 
to  follow  up  on  the  outcomes  of  all  United  Nations 
including 
conferences, 
the  political  commitments 
renewed  at 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development, with increased international 
cooperation.
In that regard, the Group of 77 urges the Council, 
in  accordance  with  resolution  61/16,  to  strengthen  its 
relations with other intergovernmental bodies, especially 
the  newly  established  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development,  the  regional  commissions, 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  subsidiary  bodies 
of the Economic and Social Council, and other relevant 
stakeholders. Such strengthening should bring greater 
coherence to the work of the Council system, making it 
an effective and relevant United Nations body that not 
only follows up on the agreed development goals, but 
also responds to new and emerging global challenges.
Mr.  Antony  (India):  It  is  my  distinct  honour  to 
make  a  statement  in  today’s  important  joint  debate. 
The  United  Nations  embodies  humankind’s  faith  in 
multilateralism  to  solve  global  problems.  Over  the 
decades, it has rendered great service to humankind.
India aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China.
India  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of 
the Economic and Social Council. The Council has an 
acknowledged role as a principal body for coordination, 
policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and  recommendations 
on issues of economic and social development.
the  achievement  of 
Global  cooperation  on  sustainable  development 
is  today  at  an  important  crossroads.  The  work  on 
accelerating 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  negotiating  a  set  of 
sustainable development goals, formulating a strategy 
for financing sustainable development and arriving at a 
post-2015 development agenda will be the key priorities 
of the international community over the next two years.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  an  important 
role to play in that endeavour.
13-55626
5/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
The vision of a strengthened Economic and Social 
Council  has  been  realized  through  resolution  68/1, 
adopted in September this year. We deeply appreciate 
the efforts of the Permanent Representatives of Guyana 
and  Belgium  for  leading  the  inclusive  process  of 
consultations that led to the resolution’s adoption. We 
believe that the strengthened structure of the Economic 
and Social Council will assist it in better discharging 
its  role  as  a  principal  body  for  coordination,  policy 
review and dialogue and recommendations on issues of 
economic and social development.
The  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  that  we  have  created  must  be  seen  as  a 
forum  for  action-oriented  collaboration.  The  Forum 
should  address  sustainable  development  challenges 
from  the  perspective  of  poverty  eradication  as  its 
overarching objective. The Council and the Forum will 
together  play  a  key  role  in  the  articulation  of  global 
priorities  in  the  post-2015  period.  India  believes  that 
poverty  eradication  must  be  pursued  with  renewed 
vigour  and  determination.  Other  human  development 
imperatives  enshrined  in  the  MDGs  remain  equally 
important and must be carried forward.
Only economic growth can ensure the eradication 
of  poverty.  To  achieve  that,  we  must  strengthen 
the  partnership  between  developed  and  developing 
countries  and  make  it  more  meaningful  and  genuine. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  must  remain  an 
agenda for development. Its focal point must be a more 
equitable  distribution  of  resources  and  wealth  among 
the  nations  and  within  them.  It  must  also  promote  an 
international system conducive to development.
India has followed a path of inclusive growth, with 
the aim of making all sections of society stakeholders 
in  the  development  of  the  country.  Robust  economic 
growth over the past decade, supported by proactive and 
targeted interventions by the Government, has enabled 
us to move millions of our people out of poverty.
We  have 
taken 
several  unique 
trailblazing 
initiatives.  The  recently  enacted  Food  Security  Act 
will ensure food security for the Indian people. A law 
that guarantees at least a hundred days of work for the 
country’s rural poor has also been enacted. The Right 
to  Education  Act  ensures  universal  access  to  quality 
education  for  our  people.  The  Right  to  Information 
Act  has  empowered  people  by  enhancing  openness 
and transparency in governance. We have empowered 
women  by  reserving  seats  for  them  in  local  bodies. 
We  have  strengthened  the  law  dealing  with  offences 
against  women  in  order  to  ensure  greater  safety  and 
security  for  them.  A  Government  of  India  initiative 
to  provide  unique  identification  (ID)  to  all  Indian 
citizens is perhaps the world’s largest ID scheme. More 
than  520  million  Indians  have  already  been  enrolled. 
Sustainable development is one of the primary goals of 
our twelfth five-year plan. We have been fortunate to 
have  leaders  who  have  fully  recognized  the  need  for 
harmony with nature. In fact, our late Prime Minister, 
Mrs. Indira Gandhi, was the only head of Government 
to attend the United Nations Conference on the Human 
Environment in Stockholm in 1972.
India’s  development  experience  has  shown  that 
human  development  indicators  can  be  improved  even 
with low per capita incomes. Kerala, my state of origin, 
has managed to reduce infant mortality rates to levels 
not achieved by many rich countries. We have created 
a programme called the Zero Landless Project, through 
which  all  families  in  Kerala  state  are  provided  with 
land  on  which  they  can  build  a  house  of  their  own. 
Kerala  has  also  undertaken  pioneering  initiatives  in 
public health, such as by producing generic medicines 
and  cutting-edge  treatments  and  surgery  available  at 
affordable  rates.  The  mass  contact  programme  of  the 
state  government  has  been  recognized  by  the  United 
Nations.
in 
India is fully committed to playing a constructive 
fashioning  an  ambitious,  equitable  and 
role 
comprehensive  post-2015  development  agenda.  We 
believe that with our collaborative efforts and collective 
will,  we  can  create  a  better  world  for  ourselves 
and  future  generations.  In  that  quest,  we  must  take 
inspiration from the words of the “Father of the Indian 
Nation”, Mahatma Gandhi, who said:
“Whenever you are in doubt ... recall the face 
of  the  poorest  and  weakest  person  you  may  have 
seen and ask yourself if the step you contemplate is 
going to be of any use to her. Will she gain anything 
by it? Will it restore her to control over her own life 
and destiny? ... Then you will find your doubts ... 
melting away”.
Mr.  Yaroshevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus  welcomes 
the  results  of  the  negotiations  on  strengthening  the 
Economic and Social Council, which led to the adoption 
of resolution 68/1.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council,  under  whose 
auspices meetings of the High-level Political Forum on 
6/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
Sustainable Development will be held each year, should 
be the main forum for reviewing the economic, social 
and environmental aspects of development issues. Both 
the Council and the Forum are already being called upon 
to systematize various processes in the socioeconomic 
area and give them centripetal force. That is particularly 
relevant  in  the  short  period  that  remains  before  the 
key deadline, namely, the approval of a new post-2015 
global agenda for sustainable development.
The outcomes of that process will enable us once 
again  to  look  at  the  topic  of  strengthening  global 
economic management. In that regard, we would like to 
see more active interaction between the Economic and 
Social Council, the Group of 20 and the Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development,  as  they 
are  among  the  key  international  institutions  in  the 
economic  sphere.  In  addition,  we  need,  in  our  view, 
to  continue  thinking  about  implementing  in  practice 
the  oft-repeated  proposal  of  establishing  a  body  on 
financing for development as a subsidiary body of the 
Economic and Social Council.
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
We also support continuing the practice of holding 
high-level meetings of the Economic and Social Council 
on the most relevant issues of the world economy and 
finance,  in  which  the  leaders  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions, 
the 
International Labour Organization, the United Nations 
Industrial  Development  Organization  and  others 
would  participate.  We  also  urge  that  those  meetings 
seek  to  develop  practical  steps  aimed  at  ensuring  the 
sustainability  of  the  world  economy  as  a  whole  and 
national economies in particular.
Another  area  that  the  Council  and  the  High-
level  Political  Forum  could  focus  on  extensively  is  to 
monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  commitments  in 
the area of financing for development. We propose that 
the modalities for that aspect of the Forum’s work should 
be  determined  at  the  Forum  session  to  be  convened 
under the auspices of the Economic and Social Council.
Belarus  believes  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  can  and  should  become  a  structure  that  is 
able to develop concrete steps to implement the many 
declarations  adopted  on  various  topics  in  the  social, 
economic  and  environmental  spheres.  In  that  regard, 
we commend the exchange of views that took place in 
the margins of the substantive session of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  in  2013  on  issues  of  cooperation 
with  middle-income  level  countries;  without  their 
participation we cannot begin talking about the success 
of  the  international  efforts  on  the  global  transition  to 
sustainable development.
At  the  2013  substantive  session  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  it  became  clear  that  it  would  not 
be  possible  to  adopt  the  ministerial  declaration  by 
consensus,  and  we  think  that  it  is  unacceptable  that 
individual States, acting out of sheer political ambition, 
can  block  the  results  of  a  negotiating  process.  We 
believe that blocking a declaration, which is a type of 
road  map  for  the  economic  dimension  of  the  United 
Nations,  should  be  viewed  as  an  action  that  impedes 
the full implementation of the United Nations mandate.
A priority task of the Council should, we believe, 
remain  —  in  future  as  well  —  the  implementation 
of  mutually  beneficial  cooperation  between 
the 
United  Nations  and  international  financial  and  trade 
institutions,  the  private  sector  and  non-governmental 
organizations  for 
the 
effective  implementation  of  the  international  agenda 
for  development.  Belarus  is  prepared  to  engage  in 
constructive  cooperation  with  all  partners  in  the 
interests  of  a  further  practical  strengthening  of  the 
Economic and Social Council so as to bring it in line 
with  its  true  role  and  the  functions  and  to  coordinate 
socioeconomic  activity,  which  is  part  of  its  mandate 
as  set  by  the  international  community.  In  addition  to 
improvements in the forms and working methods of the 
Economic and Social Council, we also expect smoother 
and more accurate work from the Secretariat. A decision 
to  hold  the  substantive  session  of  the  Council  in  one 
place would contribute to the organization of its work 
at a stable, high level.
the  purposes  of  ensuring 
Mr. Maksimychev (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian):  I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the Economic and Social Council for his introduction 
of the Council’s report (A/68/3). We would also like to 
express our gratitude to the Secretariat for its support 
of the Council’s work in the current year.
The  Russian  delegation  greatly  appreciates  the 
intensive  dialogue  on  multilateral  cooperation 
in 
the  areas  of  science,  technology,  innovation  and 
culture  that  took  place  within  the  framework  of  the 
high-level  segment  of  the  substantive  session  of  the 
Economic and Social Council. The annual ministerial 
review of progress towards achieving the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  helped  to  strengthen 
multilateral  cooperation  in  those  areas  and  made  a 
significant  contribution  to  the  post-2015  global  social 
and economic agenda. Most importantly, the members 
13-55626
7/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
of the Economic and Social Council called unanimously 
for agreement on a single programme of action based on 
the concept of sustainable development with a limited 
set of goals, targets and indicators.
for 
Discussions  in  the  framework  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  emphasized  convincingly  that 
building scientific, technological and cultural potential 
should be considered a priority and a key prerequisite 
for overcoming the legacy of the global financial and 
economic  crisis  and  for  implementing  international 
development  goals  as  quickly  as  possible.  We  believe 
that  the  Council  has  succeeded  in  creating  a  good 
scientific, 
foundation 
technological  and  cultural  cooperation  and 
in 
establishing the right guidelines for further efforts, at 
every level, to encourage the effective use of science, 
technology,  innovation  and  culture  in  achieving  the 
MDGs. We look forward to seeing a speedy conclusion 
to  the  drafting  of  a  ministerial  declaration  and  its 
adoption  during  the  resumed  substantive  session  in 
December.  We  support  the  efforts  of  the  President  of 
the Economic and Social Council to achieve consensus 
on the remaining unresolved issue.
initiating  multilateral 
reviews  within 
The  annual  ministerial 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  have  demonstrated  the 
Council’s  unique  potential  for  effective  monitoring 
and  control  of  the  comprehensive  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  major  United 
Nations  socioeconomic  forums.  It  will  therefore  be 
essential to set up the work of the High-level Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  as  of 
2016  will  replace  the  ministerial  reviews,  by  taking 
into  account  the  successes  of  the  annual  ministerial 
review  experience,  which  include  the  open  nature  of 
discussions, a clear thematic focus and reliance on the 
expertise of relevant United Nations entities, academia, 
non-governmental organizations and the private sector.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  made  a 
major contribution to achieving the policy orientations 
outlined in General Assembly resolution 67/226, on the 
quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review  of  United 
Nations  operational  activities.  We  are  convinced  that 
improving  operational  efficiency  should  remain  a 
priority for the Council, which is mandated to monitor 
progress 
the  relevant  Assembly 
decisions. In that context, ensuring that the analytical 
reporting of the agencies concerned is of the appropriate 
quality  is  extremely  important,  and  we  urge  that 
particular attention be paid to the issue.
implementing 
in 
in 
the 
In  2013, 
its  key  role 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
solidified 
intergovernmental 
financing-for-development  follow-up  process  to  the 
outcome of the International Conference on Financing 
for Development. We welcome the results of the special 
high-level  meeting  of  the  Council  with  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization 
and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development. We particularly value the efforts of the 
President  and  the  Bureau  of  the  Council  to  establish 
working relationships with the International Monetary 
Fund  and  the  World  Bank.  We  consider  it  one  of  the 
Council’s primary strategic objectives to build mutually 
beneficial cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  international  financial  and  trade  institutions,  the 
private  sector  and  non-governmental  organizations  in 
the  interests  of  effectively  realizing  the  international 
development agenda.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  also  remains 
an  important  forum  for  the  discussion  of  current 
problems  of  international  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
health  care,  including  combating  non-communicable 
diseases.  On  Russia’s  initiative,  the  Council  adopted 
resolution  2013/12,  on  forming  a  United  Nations 
Interagency Task force on the Prevention and Control 
of  Non-communicable  Diseases,  which  brings  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  that  area  to 
a  qualitatively  new  level  and  makes  an  important 
contribution  to  implementing  the  General  Assembly’s 
Political  Declaration  on  the  Prevention  and  Control 
of  Non-communicable  Diseases  (resolution  66/2)  and 
the related Global Action Plan. We are grateful to all 
the  delegations  that  supported  the  draft  resolution, 
particularly in the capacity of co-sponsors.
Russia has consistently advocated for strengthening 
the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council 
in the United Nations development system. The Council 
remains  a  key  United  Nations  forum  for  developing 
collective  approaches  to  solving  urgent  social  and 
economic  problems.  We  participated  actively  in  the 
agreement on General Assembly resolutions 67/290 and 
68/1, which defined new parameters for the Council’s 
work,  taking  into  account  the  tasks  outlined  in  the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex) 
on the balanced integration of the economic, social and 
environmental pillars of sustainable development. We 
are awaiting substantive proposals from the Council’s 
Bureau  and  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  on  the 
organization of the Council’s work in the new format.
8/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
We  urge  that  priority  be  given  to  ensuring  the 
uninterrupted functioning of the Economic and Social 
Council’s  subsidiary  bodies,  particularly  during  the 
so-called  transitional  period.  We  also  presume  that, 
in  preparing  their  proposals,  the  Bureau  and  the 
Secretariat will take full account of resolution 67/290, 
which clearly defines the modalities of the High-level 
Political Forum on Sustainable Development under the 
auspices of the Economic and Social Council. We affirm 
the  understanding  reached  during  the  consultations 
that the Forum will meet within the framework of the 
substantive session of the Council for eight consecutive 
days, including three days at the ministerial level. We 
also  believe  that  it  is  exceedingly  important  to  avoid 
competition between the annual ministerial review and 
the  High-level  Political  Forum  during  the  transitional 
period.  The  outcome  of  the  high-level  segment  of  the 
Council’s substantive session should be expressed in a 
single ministerial declaration.
We note that changes will soon have to be made in 
the Economic and Social Council’s rules of procedure 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  resolution  68/1. 
We  also  consider  it  important  to  continue  to  work  on 
optimizing  the  Council’s  agenda  and  its  modalities 
of  working  with  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the  private  sector  while  maintaining  the  Council’s 
inter-State  nature.  In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to 
emphasize that decisions on those and other issues are 
the exclusive prerogative of Member States.
The Russian delegation has an interest in ensuring 
the  efficient  functioning  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, which is mandated to play an important role in 
coordinating and implementing the new priorities of the 
post-2015 social and economic agenda. We believe that 
the  Council  should  take  its  rightful  place  in  creating 
the  emerging  global  architecture  for  international 
development cooperation, and we are ready to contribute 
in every possible way to a constructive dialogue with 
all our partners.
Mr.  Niyazaliev  (Kyrgyzstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  for  his  thorough  introduction  of 
the report on the work of the Council for the preceding 
period (A/68/3). My delegation welcomes the report and 
greatly appreciates the skilful leadership of the Council 
by Mr. Néstor Osorio, the Ambassador of Colombia. I 
would also like to thank the members of the Bureau of 
the  Council —  the  Ambassadors  of  Austria,  Albania, 
Pakistan and the Sudan — and the Secretariat for their 
hard and fruitful work.
In  2013,  the  Republic  of  Kyrgyzstan  participated 
in the activities of the Economic and Social Council as 
a full member for the first time. My country’s decision 
to stand for election to the Council was the result of a 
desire to take part in multilateral efforts to find ways 
to  achieve  sustainable  development  while  taking  into 
account the specifics of our socioeconomic makeup, the 
potential of our natural resources, and our geographic 
features. We also considered it essential to consolidate 
the efforts of all countries aimed at developing concrete 
recommendations to solve problems of socioeconomic 
development  on  the  basis  of  an  objective  and  fair 
consideration of their interests and needs.
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  considers  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  be  an  important  platform 
for  multilateral  political  dialogue  that  enables  its 
participants  to  present  their  national  achievements, 
exchange  valuable  experiences,  discuss  existing  and 
emerging issues and jointly develop ideas for the global 
development  agenda.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
results of the work of the Economic and Social Council 
in 2013.
We  note 
the  Council’s  many 
important  and 
innovative  endeavours  aimed  at  coordinating  United 
Nations activities in the economic, social, environmental 
and other related areas, and we welcome the holding of 
the special joint meeting of the Council and the Second 
Committee of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session,  which  allowed  us  to  engage  in  wide-ranging 
discussions on the issues of food security and nutrition. 
The discussion at the special high-level meeting of the 
Council with the Bretton Woods institutions, the World 
Trade Organization and the United Nations Conference 
on  Trade  and  Development  was  also  fruitful  for 
reviewing the current situation and the outlook for the 
future. The First Deputy Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz 
Republic spoke at that high-level meeting on the global 
economic situation.
The  debt-burden  problem  is  one  of  the  main 
reasons why many developing countries will be unable 
to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
on schedule. We therefore support the idea of holding 
a  special  meeting  on  external  debt  sustainability  and 
development. We also found fruitful the discussion of 
coordination,  operational  activities  and  humanitarian 
issues at the 2013 substantive session of the Economic 
and Social Council in Geneva.
13-55626
9/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  welcomes  the  Assembly’s 
adoption  on  20  September  of  resolution  68/1,  aimed 
at  strengthening  the  role  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  The  adoption  of  that 
resolution  was  the  result  of  strenuous  joint  efforts 
on  the  part  of  delegations,  under  the  able  leadership 
of  the  representatives  of  Belgium  and  Guyana  as 
co-facilitators  of  the  review  of  the  implementation  of 
resolution 61/16 on the strengthening of the Economic 
and  Social  Council.  We  hope  that  resolution  68/1 
will  increase  the  effectiveness,  focus  and  coherence 
of  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the 
principal  organ  responsible  for  coordination,  policy 
review and dialogue on issues of economic and social 
development,  as  well  as  for  the  achievement  of  the 
international development goals. We are confident that 
the Council will be able to ensure a coordinated follow-
up to the major international conferences and high-level 
meetings and to facilitate a balanced integration of all 
three components of sustainable development.
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  adoption  of 
resolution 67/290, entitled “Format and organizational 
aspects of the high-level political forum on sustainable 
development”. It is an additional contribution to efforts 
to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  as  one  of  the  main  tools  for  the  effective 
implementation of the decisions of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development.  We  hope 
that  the  strengthened  Council  will  be  an  important 
mechanism in implementing the post-2015 development 
agenda  and  will  continue  to  serve  as  an  important 
platform  for  multilateral  political  dialogue  on  global 
issues of social and economic development.
Allow me to emphasize the crucial importance of 
strengthening the coordination and interaction between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. We need to undertake joint efforts to ensure 
that the efforts of those two main United Nations organs 
are  mutually  beneficial  and  reinforcing  and  avoid 
duplication. That will increase the effectiveness of the 
United  Nations  in  ensuring  a  more  secure,  equitable 
and prosperous future.
the 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  supports 
thematic 
approach adopted by the Economic and Social Council 
in its work. However, the themes chosen must be cross-
cutting and appropriately reflected in the work of the 
subsidiary  bodies  of  the  Council.  In  accordance  with 
resolution 68/1, we are anxiously awaiting the proposals 
of  the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
on  the  theme  for  the  year,  which  should  be  issued  in 
consultation  with  the  subsidiary  bodies  and  Member 
States.
We believe that the annual theme of the Economic 
and Social Council should reflect the ongoing process of 
defining the post-2015 sustainable development goals. 
We are ready to actively participate in those efforts. We 
are carrying out national consultations on the priority 
issues  of  the  development  agenda:  the  eradication  of 
poverty, access to education and health care, ensuring a 
sustainable economy and employment, the development 
of agriculture, food security, energy, governance, peace 
and stability.
We  also  believe  that  particular  attention  must  be 
paid to the specific needs of States that have a special 
geographical situation, especially those which are the 
most  economically  vulnerable,  such  as  developing 
countries, 
landlocked  developing  countries,  small 
island developing countries and mountainous countries. 
There  are  a  few  landlocked  mountainous  countries, 
which  have  specific  developmental  needs,  including 
transport infrastructure, energy vulnerability, issues of 
climate change and the melting of glaciers. We believe 
that those specific needs should be taken into account 
in the work of Economic and Social Council.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  emphasize  that  the 
Kyrgyz  Republic  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
activities  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
is  determined  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  its 
resolutions, as well as the decisions of its subordinate 
bodies, with a view to strengthening coordination and 
cooperation aimed at achieving development goals.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
convey  my  condolences  to  the  Government  of  the 
Philippines over the tragic event brought on by Typhoon 
Haiyan.
I  wish  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  holding 
this  joint  debate.  I  also  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports 
submitted under these agenda items (A/67/736, A/68/3 
and A/68/229).
Improving 
life  of  a  growing 
population  in  a  sustainable  manner  remains  the  most 
urgent  development  priority  for 
international 
community.  However,  pursuing  poverty  eradication 
and  sustainable  development  together  is  a  formidable 
challenge,  both  for  national  Governments  and  for  the 
multilateral system. The world is changing rapidly and 
the  quality  of 
the 
10/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
is  confronted  by  economic,  social  and  environmental 
that  cannot  be  addressed  effectively 
challenges 
without  enhanced 
international  cooperation.  As 
recognized  by  world  leaders  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20), 
there  is  a  need  for  effective  multilateralism  and 
efficient intergovernmental arrangements, including a 
strengthened Economic and Social Council.
In  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20), 
entitled “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), 
world  leaders  envisioned  an  enhanced  multilateral 
system that could better address the global challenges 
of  sustainable  development.  Within  the  framework  of 
the  review  of  the  implementation  of  resolution  61/16, 
Member  States  deliberated  extensively,  through  a 
series of consultations, on how to make the Economic 
and  Social  Council  more  relevant  and  came  up  with 
specific recommendations, which were captured in the 
Secretary-General’s report (A/67/736).
In  line  with  the  recommendations  in  the  report, 
on  20  September  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  68/1,  containing 
the  most  far-reaching 
reforms  of  Economic  and  Social  Council  since  1991. 
Malaysia  believes  that  that  reform  process  will  make 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  a  stronger,  more 
issues-oriented body, responsive to the mounting global 
economic,  social  and  environmental  pressures.  The 
Economic and Social Council can be either a bystander 
or  an  active  intergovernmental  body  that  engages 
Member  States  and  other  stakeholders  in  deliberating 
and contributing to an effective and timely multilateral 
response  addressing  immediate  demands  and  longer-
term development needs.
Strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
will require a significant transformation and an overhaul 
of  its  working  methods.  The  expected  emphasis  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  on  sustainable 
development,  which  will  be  universally  applied,  will 
have a significant bearing on how the global partnership 
for development should be reoriented. The principle of 
common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  should  be 
upheld  by  all  Member  States  and  the  United  Nations 
system  in  implementing  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  Ensuring  that  an  internationally  agreed  post-
2015  development  agenda  is  followed  by  effective 
action  will  require  international  institutions  to  adapt 
to 
increasingly  global,  multidimensional  and 
interconnected nature of development challenges.
the 
Institutional  coherence  depends  to  a  large  degree 
on the quality of interaction among intergovernmental 
bodies.  The  activities  of  the  High-Level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development,  established  in 
accordance with the Rio+20 outcome document, should 
complement  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. The Forum should benefit from the strengths 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  decided  in 
paragraph  84  of  the  outcome  document,  which  states 
that  the  Forum  “should  avoid  overlap  with  existing 
structures,  bodies  and  entities  in  a  cost-effective 
manner”. There should also be coherence between the 
themes addressed by the Economic and Social Council 
and those addressed by the High-Level Political Forum.
The ongoing global financial and economic crisis 
reversed  much  of  the  world’s  economic  growth  and 
badly affected much-needed development, particularly 
in the developing countries. The crisis has threatened 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  by  2015.  Against  that  backdrop,  Malaysia 
has,  at  the  national  level,  adopted  forward-looking 
macroeconomic  policies  through  the  tenth  Malaysia 
Plan,  which  is  aimed  at  delivering  high  economic 
growth in a sustained, inclusive and equitable manner 
in order to ensure that Malaysia is on track to become a 
high-income nation by 2020.
At  the  global  level,  Malaysia  will  continue  to 
share  its  knowledge  and  experience  in  economic  and 
social development with other countries, especially the 
least-developed  countries,  through  capacity-building 
initiatives  conducted  under  the  Malaysian  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  and  other  similar  initiatives, 
in  conjunction  with  development  partners,  including 
the United Nations.
Malaysia  is  also  of  the  view  that  efforts  to 
eradicate extreme poverty should form the overarching 
goal  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  That 
must  be  complemented  by  improved  access  to  basic 
infrastructure.  In  addition,  equal  priority  should  be 
given  to  improving  access  to  basic  services.  Towards 
that  end,  our  partners  from  the  developed  countries 
can  continue  to  assist  in  poverty-eradication  efforts 
in  the  developing  world  by  continuing  to  fulfil  their 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments. 
While we recognize that our partners might be facing 
economic difficulties back home, we are confident that 
such  difficulties  will  not  hinder  them  from  fulfilling 
their  ODA  commitments,  as  agreed  in  many  United 
Nations forums.
13-55626
11/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
The  2010  MDG  review  showed  that  Malaysia 
has achieved or is on track to attain the MDGs at the 
aggregate level by 2015. The latest figures show that the 
poverty rate in Malaysia has decreased to 1.7 per cent. 
Just  last  year,  63,147  poor  households  were  elevated 
under  the  1AZAM  programme,  a  hard-core  poverty-
eradication programme of the Malaysian Government.
In order to plan, implement and monitor poverty-
eradication  programmes,  Malaysia 
introduced  a 
monitoring  system  called  e-Kasih  in  November  2007. 
E-Kasih  was  awarded  first  prize  in  the  2012  United 
Nations  Public  Service  Awards,  in  recognition  of  its 
significant  contribution  to  poverty  eradication.  The 
e-Kasih  database  system  was  created  at  the  national 
level to collect data on poor families in Malaysia. The 
database  allows  for  the  fair  distribution  of  assistance 
and avoiding overlaps in aid programmes carried out by 
multiple Government agencies.
I would like to conclude by reaffirming Malaysia’s 
commitment  to  implementing  the  outcomes  of  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  in  the  economic, 
social  and  related  fields  by  pursuing  a  development 
policy  framework  focused  on  high  growth  through 
sustained, inclusive and equitable economic, social and 
environmental  policies  and  guided  by  the  principles 
and objectives of sustainable development.
Mr. Tsymbaliuk (Ukraine): The strengthening of 
the Economic and Social Council is clearly interlinked 
with the overall reform of the United Nations sustainable 
development  architecture.  We  must  therefore  take  a 
consistent approach to the implementation of resolution 
68/1, on the strengthening of the Economic and Social 
Council,  and  of  resolution  67/290,  on  the  format  and 
organizational aspects of the high-level political forum 
on  sustainable  development,  as  they  represent  major 
steps forward in the implementation of the commitments 
made at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development.
There  is  a  need  for  synergy  among  the  High-
Level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, so as to enable an integrated consideration 
of  sustainable  development  in  the  run-up  to  2015.  In 
that regard, we encourage close collaboration between 
the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the Bureau of the Second and Third Committees. 
Ukraine  recognizes  the  enhanced  status  of  the  High-
Level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which will meet under the auspices of both the General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. That 
will enable greater prominence and political visibility 
of  the  sustainable  development  issue  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  We  view  the  Forum  as  a  high-level 
platform for the implementation and monitoring of the 
sustainable development goals.
We  are  pleased  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  reform  package  endorsed  the  Council’s  key 
role in achieving balanced integration among all three 
dimensions of sustainable development. An integration 
segment  will  help  to  coordinate  the  activities  of 
Member States and all United Nations bodies with the 
aim of achieving the goal of improving cooperation and 
coordination throughout the United Nations system.
to  stress 
the 
We  also  wish 
importance  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  supervising 
operational activities related to development. Through 
the operational activities segment, the Council should 
continue to provide overall coordination and guidance 
for  operational  development  funds  and  programmes 
and assist them in their preparations for the quadrennial 
policy  review  of  operational  activities  at  the  General 
Assembly.
The delegation of Ukraine would like to underscore 
the  enhanced  relevance  of  the  humanitarian  affairs 
segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  which 
has  made  an  important  contribution  to  the  improved 
coordination  and  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian assistance effort.
The Economic and Social Council reform package 
acknowledges the importance of the regional dimension 
of  sustainable  development  and  the  enhanced  role 
of  United  Nations  regional  commissions.  In  that 
regard, we would like to highlight the outcome of the 
review of the reform of the United Nations Economic 
Commission for Europe (UNECE), which was endorsed 
by the Economic and Social Council at the substantive 
session in July. The results of the review suggest that 
the  Commission  met  the  expectations  of  its  member 
States and proved its ability to keep pace with the times 
and address the challenges facing the UNECE region.
While stressing the various valuable achievements, 
we must not forget to proceed with unfinished business, 
in  particular  in  such  areas  as  the  Council’s  working 
modalities, final agenda and main themes. In the run-
up to 2015, it is essential to ensure that the transition 
period  in  the  Council’s  work  does  not  take  up  much 
12/14 
13-55626
11/11/2013 
A/68/PV.50
time. It is therefore crucial that we act with a sense of 
urgency.
Of no less importance to the smooth working of the 
strengthened Economic and Social Council is ensuring 
that  it  is  adequately  assisted  by  the  Secretariat.  In 
that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  the  proposals  from 
the  Secretary-General  on  measures  to  enable  the 
Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  to  better 
support  the  unified  development  agenda  and  the 
Council.
As we enter the implementation phase, it is up to 
Member  States  to  successfully  translate  into  practice 
the  provisions  of  resolutions  67/290  and  68/1.  In  so 
doing, we must not lose sight of the ultimate goal of the 
reform of the Economic and Social Council, namely, to 
ensure that the Council remains a principal body with 
sufficient authority to make decisions on global social 
and economic affairs and to improve its ability to fulfil 
the tasks assigned to it under the Charter of the United 
Nations.
For  its  part,  Ukraine  has  always  attached  great 
importance to strengthening the Economic and Social 
Council.  Commitment  to  an  effective,  efficient  and 
transparent  Council  was  a  cornerstone  of  Ukraine’s 
tenure in that body from 2010 to 2012. It is in that spirit 
that we intend to serve on the Council again, if elected 
to its membership for the 2019-2021 term.
Mr. Al-Adwani (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, I would like to emphasize the keen interest of 
our delegation in participating in the consideration of 
one of the most important items on the agenda of the 
General Assembly, “Report of the Economic and Social 
Council”. I would also like to express my gratitude and 
appreciation to all Member States for their support of 
the  candidacy  of  Kuwait  in  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council elections of November 2012, which resulted in 
our obtaining the honour of membership on the Council 
for  2013-2015,  a  crowning  achievement  of  our  efforts 
in  the  economic,  social  and  environmental  arenas. 
We  also  express  our  gratitude  to  the  States  members 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  their  efforts 
and contributions in overcoming the main obstacles in 
order to achieve effective engagement and participation 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  throughout  the 
previous session.
Here  we  would  particularly  like  to  commend  the 
adoption  in  September  of  resolution  68/1,  concerning 
reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The 
steps  and  measures  indicated  in  the  resolution  should 
promote the role of the Economic and Social Council as 
the central mechanism in coordinating the activities of 
the United Nations system and its specialized agencies 
and  in  overseeing  the  subsidiary  bodies  in  economic, 
social and environmental fields in order to promote the 
work of the Council and allow it to achieve its goals and 
fulfil its responsibilities.
the  primary 
The  obstacles  and  challenges  confronting  the 
international  community  are  preventing  developing 
countries from attaining the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  and  that  makes  us  care  more  deeply 
about supporting the work of the Economic and Social 
Council  as 
instrument 
concerned  with  socioeconomic  development  in  order 
to  provide  a  life  in  conditions  of  dignity,  which  is 
exemplified  above  all  by  guaranteeing  the  well-being 
and  welfare  of  nations,  raising  living  standards, 
combating  abject  poverty  and  hunger,  and  promoting 
efforts to reduce poverty in developing countries as a 
main pillar of the basic values of the United Nations
international 
We  would  like  to  highlight  the  difficulties  of  the 
coming  phase,  which  will  require  all  of  us  to  work 
harder to implement the outcome of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  and  turn  it 
into concrete reality, especially in terms of sustainable 
development,  the  environment,  climate  change  and 
an  integrated  economic  vision  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  would  like  to 
emphasize the need to develop and promote partnership 
among  all  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  between  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the General Assembly.
The attainment of development in its three pillars 
of  economic  growth,  social  development  and  the 
protection of the environment and its natural resources 
requires  a  holistic  vision  for  devising  strategies  for 
sustainable development that focus closely on all three 
pillars  without  shortchanging  future  generations.  To 
that end, we must uphold solidarity among generations 
and  between  Government  and  non-Government 
organizations.  In  that  context,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
established a reserve fund for future generations in 1976 
and has set aside 10 per cent of its oil and other revenues 
for  that  purpose.  Recently,  a  decision  was  made  to 
increase that set-aside to 25 per cent, so that the reserve 
fund  could  achieve  the  necessary  balance  between 
preserving State revenues and creating a development 
strategy for current and future generations.
13-55626
13/14
A/68/PV.50 
11/11/2013
The  assistance  provided  over  five  decades  by  the 
State  of  Kuwait  via  the  Kuwait  Development  Fund 
has  been  linked  to  economic  and  social  development 
and has increased standards of living and employment 
opportunities in beneficiary States. The most important 
aspect of that assistance is that it is provided on easy 
terms,  without  conditions,  and  that  its  purpose  is  to 
assist  others  in  ensuring  their  own  welfare.  It  is  also 
a chance to promote friendship and common interests 
between  Kuwait  and 
recipient  countries,  which 
currently  number  more  than  100  States,  with  a  total 
assistance of more than $18 billion.
The State of Kuwait has also continued to promote 
initiatives  calling  for  the  creation  of  special  funds 
covering  various  regions  in  the  world  and  addressing 
environmental,  economic,  educational,  health  and 
development  issues,  with  the  aim  of  resolving  the 
problems  of  unemployment,  food  security  and  other 
challenges facing the peoples of the developing world. 
Those  funds  include  the  Fund  for  a  Decent  Life,  the 
Fund for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises and the 
Special Fund for Asian States, which was created at the 
suggestion of His Highness the Amir of Kuwait, Sheikh 
Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, and is sponsored 
by him in the context of the Asian Cooperation Dialogue, 
through  which  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  contributed 
$300 million to the Fund.
The  State  of  Kuwait  was  eager 
to  support 
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  sustainable  development, 
overcoming poverty and making use of the accumulated 
international  experience  and  expertise  in  order  to 
identify  its  priorities  and  scope  in  the  economic 
social  and  environmental  fields.  The  State  of  Kuwait 
is therefore fully committed to the implementation of 
the  resolutions  and  policies  adopted  by  the  Economic 
and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies. We also 
pay special attention to the activities of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  in  order  to  promote  economic 
cooperation  with  a  view  to  accelerating  development 
and achieving our common goals of combating poverty, 
eliminating  serious  and 
infectious  diseases,  and 
achieving sustainable development. We also continue to 
support international and regional institutions working 
in the area of development in order to enable them to 
carry out their tasks and pursue their efforts, thereby 
supporting and assisting developing and less-developed 
countries to achieve the MDGs.
To  conclude,  we  look  forward  to  submitting  our 
voluntary  national  report  at  the  coming  substantive 
session of the Economic and Social Council, to be held 
in New York next year, which will cover the progress 
achieved by Kuwait in reaching the MDGs.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on agenda items 9 and 14. The Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of those 
agenda items.
Agenda item 118 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Development Goals Summit
Specific meeting focused on development
The  President:  I  have  been  informed  that  no 
Member State has requested to take the floor under that 
item.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 118.
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.
14/14 
13-55626
