United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
17th plenary meeting
Friday, 27 September 2013, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.17
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Touré (Guinea), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Bazoum,  Minister  
of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation,  African 
Integration  and  Nigeriens  Abroad  of  the  Republic  of 
the Niger.
Mr. Bazoum (Niger) (spoke in French): It is a great 
honour  for  me  to  take  the  floor  at  the  sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly, which is being held in 
the context of some rather disturbing developments in 
terms of peace and security — developments that, very 
appropriately, we have an opportunity to consider and 
to deal with under the provisions of the United Nations 
Charter.
As I begin my statement I should like to congratulate 
Mr. John Ashe on his election to the presidency, without 
forgetting  the  team  that  is  helping  him.  I  should  also 
like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
tireless efforts in areas such as sustainable development, 
peace,  security  and  counter-terrorism,  particularly  in 
our region of the Sahel.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The theme of the sixty-eighth session, “The post-
2015 development agenda: setting the stage”, leads us 
to ask what measures to take, in the spirit of solidarity, 
once we have established that many countries will not 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals within the 
time frame, as is the case with my country, the Niger. 
This session of the General Assembly gives me an 
opportunity to review the ongoing efforts in our country 
in  that  area.  The  renaissance  programme  established 
since President Mahamadou Issoufou was elected to head 
our  country  makes  agriculture,  health  and  education 
absolute priorities, so that we can substantially improve 
our human development index performance. Resources 
expended  for  that  purpose  have  enabled  our  country 
to  make  significant  progress.  We  have,  in  particular, 
reduced  the  proportion  of  the  population  living  in 
extreme  poverty  and  chronic  undernourishment.  I 
should like to welcome the significant assistance from 
bilateral partners and from international organizations, 
including  non-governmental  organizations,  which  are 
assisting  the  Government  of  the  Niger  in  its  policies 
and  programmes  for  a  harmonious  socioeconomic 
development. It is for that purpose that the Government 
launched  an  ambitious  socioeconomic  development 
programme.  A  round  table  of  donors  was  held  last 
November in Paris, at which pledges totalling more than 
$4.8  billion  were  announced.  That  amount  exceeded 
the expectations of my Government.
We  call  for  the  effective  mobilization  of  those 
commitments,  so  that  we  can  take  action  in  five 
strategic  areas:,  namely,  building 
the  credibility 
and  effectiveness  of  public  institutions;  establishing 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48796 (E)
*1348796*
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
conditions  for  sustainable,  balanced  and  inclusive 
development; food security and sustainable agricultural 
development;  a  competitive  and  diversified  economy 
designed to promote accelerated and inclusive growth; 
and the promotion of social development.
Given  the  particular  interest  accorded  to  rural 
populations  by  our  President,  we  have  developed 
and  launched  the  “three  N’s”  initiative  —  Nigeriens 
feeding  Nigeriens  —  with  the  goal  of  promoting 
food  security  and  food  sovereignty,  in  order  to  end 
the  food  shortages  caused  by  recurring  droughts. 
The  programme  is  intended  to  improve  agricultural 
productivity  by  promoting 
the 
judicious development of the substantial water potential 
of  our  country,  by  improving  production  techniques 
through  the  substantial  use  of  inputs  and  machinery, 
by  reorganizing  the  farming  sector,  by  rationalizing 
distribution channels for agricultural products and by 
building roads in rural areas.
irrigation 
through 
in  mind 
Always  bearing 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  our  Government 
is  paying 
particular attention to the vital question of education, 
including  the  construction  of  schools,  the  delivery  of 
school  supplies,  the  extensive  recruitment  of  teachers 
and the improvement of teachers’ working conditions. 
It is determined, too, to pursue a bold, consciousness-
raising policy aimed at controlling population growth, 
which is currently negating the impact of the remarkable 
economic growth that we have experienced in the past 
two years.
As  I  said  at  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  this 
session is taking place at a time when the purpose and 
role of the Organization are being sorely tested, owing 
to an international situation characterized by persisting 
or  new  crises  and  conflicts.  Now  more  than  ever,  we 
need  to  rise  to  the  challenge,  bearing  in  mind  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
We  call  upon  the  General  Assembly,  and  in 
particular  the  Security  Council,  to  continue  to  work 
resolutely to arrive at negotiated and lasting solutions 
to  situations  where  lethal  crises  have  the  potential  to 
cause  desolation  and  displacement  and  compromise 
socioeconomic development. 
For us in the Sahel the major concern in 2012 and 
2013  has  been  Mali.  The  Niger  is  pleased  with  the 
positive  outcome  in  that  country  and  the  follow-up 
machinery  put  in  place  by  the  Organization  through 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali  (MINUSMA),  whose 
establishment  was  possible  thanks  to  a  considerable 
mobilization  of  the  international  community.  That 
mobilization was driven by the Economic Community 
of West African States (ECOWAS), which dedicated a 
number  of  very  high-level  meetings  to  the  subject  of 
Mali, and was effectively relayed by the African Union 
through its Peace and Security Council. It was followed 
up  on  a  regular  basis  by  the  United  Nations,  whose 
Security Council has adopted many resolutions on the 
subject.
But today, as we take stock of that joint action, we 
are  duty-bound  to  recognize  that  we  owe  the  health 
of  Mali  more  especially  to  the  far-sighted  decision  of 
President Hollande to launch Operation Serval, which 
was able to put an end to the terrorist coalition in early 
January  2013,  thanks  to  the  sizeable  means  put  at  its 
disposal, making it equal to the task.We must recognize 
also that, while ECOWAS rightly and promptly opted 
for a military intervention, most of the States that were 
supposed  to  mobilize  troop  contingents  were  slow 
to  make  them  available  and  operational.  The  United 
Nations,  for  its  part,  sought  to  differentiate  between 
terrorist organizations, so that, against all the evidence, 
it  could  promote  a  dialogue  with  some  of  them.  We 
who were facing the threat were made very anxious by 
some of the debates at the United Nations, which could 
have been avoided if only the facts had been faced and 
the  straightforwardness  of  the  evidence  noted.  The 
unjustified  stalling  by  the  international  community 
encouraged  the  terrorists  to  press  their  advantage  by 
adopting a new agenda and new goals, enabling them to 
envisage total victory over Malian territory, and even 
beyond.
If I dwell on this it is, first, because I know how 
close we came to disaster, and, secondly, because it is 
my  deep  conviction  that  just  because  our  enterprise 
is  complex  it  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  we  are 
doomed to inaction at best and to mistakes at worst.
In spite of what I have just said, the action of the 
international community in Mali yielded very positive 
results, thanks to the support of all. Mali, in addition 
to  being  free,  on  11  August  chose  its  President  in 
an  election  that  was  in  every  respect  remarkable.  I 
should like to extend once again my congratulations to 
President Keita.
The 
international  community  should  continue 
to  support  Mali,  adding  to  the  troops  and  capacity  of 
2/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
MINUSMA, so that it can complete the job of eradicating 
the terrorist groups. These are now in difficult straits, 
but are far from having, as it were, uttered their final 
word.
It  is  also  urgent  to  put  in  place  regional  and 
international coordination, the job of which would be 
to provide security for all of the Sahelo-Saharan area. 
Vigorous measures of a general nature need to be taken 
against  drug  trafficking  and  cross-border  organized 
crime. In that regard, I wish to express my sympathy 
for the plight of the hostages held by terrorists in the 
Sahelo-Saharan  area.  I  convey  my  condolences  to 
their families and call for more efforts to achieve their 
prompt release.
The  problems  of  the  Sahel  are  not  just  security 
problems.  That  part  of  the  world  is  among  the  most 
afflicted. It is subject to the effects of climate change, 
desertification  and  recurring  droughts,  as  well  as 
the  resulting  food  shortages  and  malnutrition.  It 
needs  significant  investment  as  part  of  a  sustained 
global  strategy,  supported  by  the  entire  international 
community,  to  ensure  the  economic  progress  that  is 
vital  for  its  stabilization  and  its  deliverance  from  the 
clutches of violence.
Terrorism in Africa affects not only the Sahel, but 
also the Horn of Africa. It struck the Kenyan people on 
23 September in the form of the bloody and murderous 
attack on the Westgate Mall in Nairobi. I should like to 
take this opportunity to express my condolences to the 
Government of Kenya.
The  populations  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
are,  tragically,  experiencing  an  unprecedented  level 
of  violence.  The  Niger  calls  for  an  international 
intervention, as in Mali in January 2013, to put an end 
to the martyrdom of the people of the Central African 
Republic.
With  respect  to  Palestine,  it  is  heartbreaking  to 
think that in today’s world, so characterized by highly 
sophisticated  technology  and  so  imbued  with  modern 
values, a people could be deprived of its most elementary 
rights. The Niger is hopeful that the current initiative of 
the  United  States  Government  will  be  successful  and 
will lead to the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian 
State beside and in harmonious coexistence with Israel.
What is happening in Syria is a veritable tragedy, 
even in this topsy-turvy world. A millennial civilization 
is crumbling before our eyes. We condemn the use of 
chemical weapons, as occurred on 21 August, and call 
upon the United Nations to reach a political solution at 
the upcoming “Geneva II” conference.
For a number of decades now, the Cuban population 
has endured a trade, economic and financial embargo. 
We call for the lifting of that embargo.
In conclusion, I express my fervent hope that our 
deliberations  will  help  advance  the  cause  of  peace, 
security and progress throughout the world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I call now 
on His Excellency Mr. Ali Ahmed Karti, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan. 
Mr.  Karti  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Today,  I 
address  the  Assembly  at  a  time  when  I  feel  great 
uncertainty  about  the  future  of  the  Organization  and 
the  established  rules  governing  the  relations  among 
its Member States. It was expected that yesterday the 
Assembly  would  hear,  from  this  rostrum,  a  statement 
from President Al-Bashir, the elected President of the 
Republic  of  the  Sudan.  However,  with  deep  regret  I 
must report the refusal by the authorities of the United 
States,  the  host  Government,  to  give  entry  visas  to 
President Al-Bashir and his delegation, thus rendering 
him unable to participate in the work of the Assembly 
at this session. 
The fact that the authorities of the host country did 
not grant a visa to our President is a serious violation 
of the principles and purposes set forth in the Charter 
of the United Nations. Specifically, it is a violation of 
the Headquarters Agreement signed in December 1946 
with the host country. 
President  Al-Bashir  is  known  throughout  Africa. 
He  is  known  by  all  those  who  hold  peace  dear.  He  is 
known by everybody for what he has done — putting 
an end to the longest bloodthirsty civil war in Africa, 
inherited  from  the  days  of  colonialism.  The  birth 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  is  clear  proof  of  his 
commitment to the implementation of the provisions of 
the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. 
Despite  the  tremendous  sacrifice  made  by  giving 
up a valuable part of the territory, one rich in natural 
and  human  resources,  President  Al-Bashir  has  been 
prevented from participating in the work of the General 
Assembly.  However,  the  meeting  of  the  Peace  and 
Security Council of the African Union has highlighted 
the part that he has played in supporting peace between 
the Sudan and South Sudan and throughout our region.
13-48796
3/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
My delegation would like to say that this unjustified 
and unacceptable action sets a very serious precedent 
in the history of the United Nations. It requires that the 
whole membership take a firm position on this matter. 
This  denial  of  the  legitimate  right  of  a  Member  State 
leads us to call on the Secretary-General to exercise his 
duty and responsibility to protect the rights of Member 
States under the Headquarters Agreement. If the matter 
were left up to the Sudan, then the same kind of thing 
could happen to any other Member State, and we would 
not like those rights to be violated. 
I should like to warmly congratulate the President on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
extend my country’s thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić,  for  the  excellent  manner  in  which  he  guided 
the work at the last session. We also thank Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and his team in the Secretariat 
for  the  sincere  and  diligent  work  that  they  have  done 
for us.
the  stage”, 
It is our hope that discussions during this session 
will  be  successful.  The  theme  chosen,  “The  post-
2015  development  agenda:  setting 
is 
important.  The  Sudan  believes  that  the  Organization 
and  its  specialized  agencies  will  indeed  devote  the 
importance  that  is  appropriate  to  such  a  crucial  issue 
because development is essential to international peace 
and  security,  particularly  in  developing  countries.  As 
everyone  knows,  poverty,  underdevelopment,  climate 
change  and  a  shortage  of  resources  are  some  of  the 
main causes of conflict in the world.
The  Sudan  has  made  great  strategic  progress 
regarding peace, stability and prosperity for its people 
and has begun a political process that will lead to the 
adoption of a final constitution. After the peace efforts 
proved successful vis-à-vis the independence of South 
Sudan,  we  accepted  the  choice  of  its  people.  Today 
we  are  working  to  develop  a  solid  economic  system, 
even  though  we  have  to  deal  with  the  after-effects  of 
economic sanctions that the United States unilaterally 
imposed on us. We have begun to take economic steps 
necessary  to  strengthen  our  economy  and  prevent  it 
from collapsing. 
On the matter of human rights, I should like to share 
the opinion expressed by the Special Rapporteur on the 
Sudan. He recognized that progress had been made in 
various areas of human rights. These matters have been 
dealt  with  very  seriously,  and  the  recommendations 
will be dealt with in our policy. We are committed to 
the principles of human rights, and we have set up an 
independent national human rights commission in the 
Sudan, founded in accordance with the Paris principles, 
that  cooperates  with  the  relevant  United  Nations 
agencies.
To  promote  and  strengthen  human  rights,  we 
signed a national law to combat trafficking in human 
beings.  We  have  many  specialized  institutions  and 
mechanisms  that  work  to  defend  women’s  rights 
as  well,  so  that  women  can  participate  fully  in  our 
society and in our State. That can be seen very clearly 
in  the  positive  discrimination  we  have  been  pursuing 
vis-à-vis  women,  which  has  led  to  greater  political 
participation by women at the legislative, executive and 
other decision-making levels.
In  2010  we  adopted  a  law  on  the  rights  of  the 
child  that  is  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional 
Protocols,  so  that  we  can  promote  the  rights  of 
children and protect them against any kind of violence 
or  exploitation.  Our  various  national 
institutions 
coordinate  among  themselves,  and  we  have  set  up  a 
national  board  for  children.  We  have  police  who  deal 
especially with the issues of youth and children, and we 
have a public prosecutor who specializes in this area.
Once South Sudan was established, we immediately 
began to engage in neighbourly and fruitful cooperation 
with it. We have blood ties with it and a common border 
more than 2,100 kilometres long. About two thirds of 
the inhabitants of both countries live along the borders. 
The  period  following  the  independence  of  South 
Sudan  was  a  period  of  some  tension  because  of 
certain matters that had been left pending, so the two 
countries entered into very intensive negotiations. On 
27 September 2012, exactly one year ago, in Addis Ababa 
the  two  countries  were  able  to  sign  nine  agreements 
covering  all  matters  of  cooperation  between  our  two 
countries. We included mechanisms for implementing 
the agreements in an accompanying document. We also 
set forth deadlines for reaching further agreements. 
At the most recent negotiating session between the 
two  Presidents,  in  Khartoum  on  3  September,  and  in 
the presence of Mr. Mbeki, the two Presidents came to 
an agreement on how to deal with all pending matters. 
They  also  appealed  to  the  international  community 
to  cancel  the  Sudan’s  debt  and  to  lift  the  sanctions 
imposed on it. 
4/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
Turning now to the matter of unilateral sanctions, 
it  is  our  hope  that  we  will  have  strong  and  healthy 
relations with South Sudan, and we will spare no effort 
to achieve that. We trust the international community 
will  be  supportive  of  our  efforts.  We  would  like  to 
extend our thanks to the African high-level mechanism 
and the Prime Minister of Ethiopia in this connection. 
I am happy to be able to report that the efforts of 
the  Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  international 
community  vis-à-vis  Darfur  have  made  possible  real 
and  continuous  progress  in  terms  of  stability  and 
security. There has been a sharp drop in the violence 
there  because  those  that  signed  the  Doha  peace 
agreement have lived up to their promises. Many of the 
armed groups joined the agreement later. The voluntary 
return of people who had left is also being organized 
and services are being provided.
I  should  like  to  say  that  relations  between  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  United  Nations  bodies 
with regard to the humanitarian situation are now stable, 
so  that  humanitarian  needs  can  be  met.  We  reached 
an  agreement  with  UNICEF  on  vaccinations  against 
poliomyelitis and other diseases, and an agreement was 
reached as part of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement.
Regarding  non-governmental  organizations,  the 
Sudan, like other Member States, is committed to the 
implementation  of  the  development  goals,  including 
combating  poverty.  We  have  adopted  policies  on 
reducing poverty and on providing more jobs for young 
graduates. We are also developing a microfinance system 
for  low-  and  middle-income  people.  Unfortunately, 
however, unemployment is not as low as we had hoped, 
and the unilateral economic sanctions have been a real 
obstacle  to  our  making  progress  in  development  and 
in strengthening our economy. It has been particularly 
difficult  for  young  people  in  the  Sudan,  who  account 
for about 60 per cent of our population. 
The  Sudan  calls  on  the  international  community 
to live up to its promise to cancel the debt and to lift 
unilateral economic sanctions. The matter of the debt is 
one of the important goals of the post-2015 development 
agenda. Debt is a real burden for so many countries in 
the world.
The  Sudan  is  a  prominent  member  of  many 
international bodies dealing with the environment. As a 
victim of climate change, the Sudan believes that great 
attention  should  be  paid  to  environmental  issues  and 
goals in the post-2015 development agenda. We would 
like  to  work  with  others  through  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The situation is deteriorating every year. We have 
suffered  from  climate  change  since  the  mid-1980s. 
We have suffered from recurrent cycles of drought in 
much of our territory, and that has also been a factor 
in  slowing  down  our  development  goals.  It  has  also 
created instability in many parts of our country because 
of conflict over pasture land and water supplies. That 
applies  also  in  Darfur,  where  historically  there  have 
been  tribal  disputes  and  disputes  over  pastureland 
because  of  long  periods  of  drought.  The  Darfur 
conflict became a political issue only in the last decade 
because of external interference. There is a very close 
relationship between climate change and armed conflict 
in that respect.
My country attaches paramount importance to the 
rule of law at the national and international levels. We 
make sure that our national laws and our legislature are 
in accordance with international instruments, laws and 
treaties to which we are a party. So from this rostrum, 
and  based  on  our  own  experience,  we  reiterate  our 
rejection  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC). 
Over  the  past  decade  or  so  it  has  been  violating  the 
principles  of  international  law  and  justice.  The  ICC 
has been used as a political tool by certain parties in 
the international arena. Many of those that signed the 
Rome Statute have now become aware of the negative 
impact of the ICC and its destructive impact on stability 
and peace. The last African Union Summit showed that 
very clearly.
Regarding  the  crisis  in  Syria,  our  position  has 
always been clear. We call for peaceful dialogue among 
the Syrians themselves towards identifying a peaceful 
and  permanent  solution.  We  have  always  rejected 
violence and foreign interference. We condemn the use 
of  chemical  weapons  in  the  Syrian  conflict,  and  we 
support the Russian approach to resolving this matter.
The question of Palestine — how to achieve justice 
and restore the rights of the Palestinian people and stop 
the illegal aggression by the Israeli authorities in that 
territory — is still a real challenge in the international 
arena.  The  prisoners  must  be  released.  The  matter 
must  be  resolved  within  the  context  of  international 
legitimacy and the Arab Peace Initiative, but Israel has 
simply  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  proposals  from  the  Arab 
sides. 
13-48796
5/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
There  has  been  a  constant  call  for  respect  for 
international  law.  The  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  principal  and  subsidiary  organs  is  a  matter  of 
some urgency and importance. It is time for a practical 
process to start, with a clear work programme, so that 
the  international  system  can  act  in  a  manner  that  is 
fair,  transparent  and  effective,  so  that  it  can  take  up 
the challenges it faces. But no progress will be made in 
reform until the General Assembly can play its full part 
and exercise all of its powers without any intimidation 
from the Security Council. 
The  matter  of  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
is  also  of  some  importance  for  the  Sudan,  because 
that  will  mean  that  there  is  real  reform  in  the  United 
Nations.  The  Security  Council  today  does  not  reflect 
the realities of the world. It adopts resolutions and takes 
decisions but not in a democratic and transparent way. 
It  is  therefore  essential  that  there  be  comprehensive 
reform. Partial or transitional reforms are not possible. 
We support the African Union position on reform of the 
international  system.  We  want  a  balanced,  pluralistic 
and  fairer  system  that  will  be  able  to  deal  with  the 
challenges  of  the  world  of  today,  ensure  respect  for 
international  law  and  for  the  noble  principles  of  the 
Organization and attain the purposes and principles of 
the Charter — respect for the sovereignty of States and 
non-interference in domestic issues under any pretext 
whatsoever; the non-use of force; and the non-use of the 
threat of force against others.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Erlan Idrissov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
like  first 
Mr.  Idrissov  (Kazakhstan):  On  behalf  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  I  should 
to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his 
election as the President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session and to wish him every success in 
his important functions. I should also like to take this 
opportunity  to  express  our  profound  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  for  his  able 
stewardship, energy and dedication in finding solutions 
to critical international challenges.
Since  we  met  here  at  the  United  Nations  a  year 
ago  the  world  situation  has  not  improved  but,  on  the 
contrary, has deteriorated, becoming more fragile and 
vulnerable to new risks and threats. A growing number 
of  States  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa,  which  were 
making steady progress, both economically and socially, 
are now witnessing regression. Some Asian States are 
facing similar risks of destabilization. The number of 
post-conflict  countries  is  also  on  the  rise,  inevitably 
affecting  global  development  in  an  interconnected 
world. Never before has the need been more compelling 
for  equal  partnership  and  the  participation  of  all 
Member States, based on mutual respect and norms as 
embodied in the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and international law. The United Nations, by 
the power invested in it by its Member States, stands out 
as our unquestioned leading entity on the world stage.
Kazakhstan strongly condemns the use of chemical 
weapons  in  Syria,  as  confirmed  by  the  findings  of 
an  independent  investigation  by  the  United  Nations 
mission, and regards it as a crime against humanity. We 
support  the  adoption  of  a  Security  Council  resolution 
on  Syria  that  would  stipulate  strict  compliance  with 
a  concerted  decision  on  the  elimination  of  chemical 
weapons  in  that  country  and  the  conduct  of  regular 
inspections of that process.
We express our hope that the accession of Syria to 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and on Their Destruction, as well as the placement of 
such weapons under international control, will preclude 
the possibility of their repeated use and will contribute 
towards the end of the long-standing and bloody conflict 
in  Syria.  We  call  for  the  earliest  possible  convening 
of  an  international  conference  on  the  settlement  of 
that conflict, with the aim of ending the violence and 
determining  Syria’s  political  future  through  dialogue 
and reconciliation.
The  current  situation  in  the  nuclear  disarmament 
process also does not encourage confidence in a more 
peaceful  future.  While  we  participated  actively  in 
yesterday’s  High-level  Meeting,  we  stress  once  again 
now from the rostrum of the General Assembly that our 
country has a special moral authority to champion the 
cause of nuclear abolition. By closing the Semipalatinsk 
nuclear  test  site  soon  after  our  independence  in  1991 
and  renouncing  the  fourth-largest  nuclear  arsenal, 
Kazakhstan  made  a  unique  contribution 
the 
multilateral  effort  to  achieve  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.
in 
We believe that the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which  remains 
the 
cornerstone of the non-proliferation regime, must reach 
full  universalization,  with  the  strict  implementation 
of  national  obligations  in  accordance  with  the  three 
6/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
use 
of 
energy 
nuclear 
peaceful 
fundamental pillars of the Treaty — non-proliferation, 
the 
and 
disarmament  —  in  a  balanced  way.  We  call  on  all 
non-NPT countries possessing nuclear weapons to sign 
the  Treaty  and  on  all  States  parties  not  to  withdraw. 
The  entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  should  become  an  important 
catalyst in the non-proliferation process, promoting the 
effective  implementation  of  the  NPT.  We  urge  those 
countries that have not yet done so to sign and ratify that 
important document. The General Assembly resolution 
initiated by Kazakhstan establishing 29 August as the 
International  Day  against  Nuclear  Tests  (resolution 
64/35)  matches  the  goals  and  objectives  for  the  entry 
into force of the CTBT.
The  Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in 
Central  Asia,  which  came  into  force  in  March  2009, 
represents  an  important  contribution  by  the  Central 
Asian countries to international and regional security. 
It  is  the  first  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  established  in 
the  northern  hemisphere  and  shares  common  borders 
with two major nuclear Powers. It is also the first such 
zone  where  previously  nuclear  weapons  had  existed. 
Kazakhstan  welcomes  the  willingness  of  the  five 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  to  hold 
a  dialogue  on  the  Additional  Protocol  with  the  five 
countries in the zone and to provide negative assurances 
as soon as possible.
Kazakhstan  supports  the  early  convening  of  the 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free of weapons of mass destruction under the auspices 
of the United Nations and calls upon all States in the 
region  actively  to  cooperate  to  make  that  important 
undertaking possible.
In order to take further decisive actions to eliminate 
the  nuclear  threat,  President  Nursultan  Nazarbaev  of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan has proposed the adoption 
of  a  universal  declaration  for  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world,  which  would  be  an  important  step  towards  a 
nuclear-weapons  prohibition  convention,  and  thereby 
achieving  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world.  We  count  on 
Member States to finalize and submit a draft resolution 
on the universal declaration of the General Assembly at 
this session.
We support an immediate political and diplomatic 
settlement  of  the  situation  concerning  the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme  on  the  basis  of  strict  compliance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  NPT  and  the  International 
to 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  regulations.  In  order 
ensure  progress  in  the  dialogue  between  the  group 
of 
international  mediators  and  Iran,  Kazakhstan 
hosted  two  rounds  of  negotiations  in  Almaty  this 
year. Specific agreements have yet to be reached, but 
we  are  confident  that  a  mutually  acceptable  outcome 
is  possible.  We  believe  that  concrete  actions  by  Iran 
to  ensure  the  transparency  and  peaceful  nature  of  its 
nuclear programme, along with reciprocal constructive 
steps  on  the  part  of  the  group  of  six,  will  advance 
the  settlement  of  the  problem,  rather  than  relying  on 
sanctions  alone.  We  all  witnessed  the  latest  positive 
signs of understanding on that issue during the current 
session and wholeheartedly welcomed them, remaining 
fully available to contribute to a productive negotiation 
process.
We express our grave concern about North Korea’s 
nuclear  programme.  Attempts  to  engage  in  the  secret 
development  of  nuclear  weapons 
in  violation  of 
international  obligations  cannot  be  justified  under 
any  circumstances.  At  the  same  time,  Kazakhstan  is 
against  a  military  solution  to  the  problem,  since  we 
are convinced that only the peaceful settlement of that 
crisis, within the framework of the Six-Party Talks, can 
ensure peace and stability in North-East Asia. 
interested 
the 
sustainable  and  stable  development  of  Afghanistan 
through its transformation into a politically stable and 
economically viable State in keeping with the decisions 
of the ministerial conference of the Istanbul Process held 
in Almaty last April. We support the rapid integration 
of  Afghanistan  into  the  regional  framework  so  as  to 
promote its speedy social and economic recovery.
is  genuinely 
Kazakhstan 
in 
The  Asian  continent  is  transforming  itself  into  a 
global  powerhouse  for  the  twenty-first  century,  with 
its  production  of  more  than  57  per  cent  of  global 
gross  domestic  product —  a  trend  that  is  expected  to 
increase. However, that growth could be jeopardized by 
an aggravation of existing conflicts, illegal migration, 
drug 
separatism, 
religious extremism and terrorism. To cope with those 
challenges, Asia needs a regional security architecture. 
Kazakhstan, as the host of the Conference on Interaction 
and Confidence-building Measures in Asia, is striving 
to maximize opportunities for joint decision-making on 
security and cooperation in Asia.
territorial  claims, 
trafficking, 
Kazakhstan  is  committed  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  international  law,  among  which  respect 
for  human  rights  and  freedom,  based  on  impartiality 
is  deemed  pivotal  for  a 
and  non-politicization, 
13-48796
7/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
sustainable, universal and effective global architecture 
for protecting human rights. That, among other things, 
requires appropriate budgeting and the strengthening of 
the Human Rights Council and its special procedures, 
in  particular  the  universal  periodic  review  and  the 
institution of special rapporteurs, as well as supporting 
the  capacity  and  authority  of  United  Nations  human 
rights mechanisms.
We  need  to  implement  civil,  political,  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights  at  the  national,  regional 
and  global  levels  while  paying  particular  attention 
to  vulnerable  groups.  Kazakhstan,  as  a  multiethnic 
and  multi-confessional  country,  can 
facilitate  a 
comprehensive dialogue among civilizations within the 
United Nations and various international and regional 
organizations. The Congress of Leaders of World and 
Traditional  Religions,  which  Kazakhstan  convenes 
every  three  years,  contributes  to  global  and  regional 
security by mobilizing the spiritual and moral potential 
of  world  religions  to  mitigate  international  conflicts 
so  as  to  prevent  confrontations  between  faiths  and 
cultures.
Additionally,  at  the  initiative  of  Kazakhstan,  the 
General  Assembly  proclaimed  the  period  between 
2013  and  2022  as  the  International  Decade  for  the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures.  Its  official  inauguration 
was held in Astana last month, thereby paving the way 
for  cultural  diversity  and  tolerance.  Kazakhstan  calls 
on Member States actively to participate in the events 
of  the  Decade  and  to  support  synergy  between  the 
Alliance of Civilizations and the Congress of Leaders 
of World and Traditional Religions.
The  consequences  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  have  led  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
world  needs  a  common  policy  of  global  governance. 
Kazakhstan  therefore  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the 
resolution  on  the  United  Nations  in  global  economic 
governance  (resolution  67/289),  which  recognizes  the 
value of cooperation and interaction between the United 
Nations and various regional and subregional groups.
Over the years, Kazakhstan has hosted the Astana 
Economic Forum, which is now a reputed international 
platform  that  covers  the  most  pressing  and  ever-
expanding  issues  of  the  world  economy.  The  first 
World Anti-Crisis Conference was held as part of the 
Forum last May in Astana. The Astana Declaration, the 
recommendations  of  the  Astana  Economic  Forum  to 
the Group of 20 leaders and the road map of the World 
Anti-Crisis Plan were adopted as outcome documents. 
The second World Anti-Crisis Conference, which is to 
be held next May in Kazakhstan, will draft the world 
anti-crisis  plan  to  combat  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis so as to ensure long-term sustainable economic 
growth.
supported 
the  participation  of  regional  countries, 
We are pleased to note the commendable work of 
the  United  Nations  in  implementing  the  agreements 
reached at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development  held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  (Rio+20),  and 
Kazakhstan  is  actively  contributing  to  that  work.  A 
national plan for transitioning to a green economy has 
been  developed,  with  programmes  in  key  sectors  of 
the  economy  —  energy,  water,  utilities,  agriculture, 
industry and biodiversity. Kazakhstan has also initiated 
the transition to a green economy in Central Asia within 
the  framework  of  the  regional  Intergovernmental 
Commission on Sustainable Development. The Rio+20 
Conference 
the  Kazakhstan-sponsored 
Green  Bridge  Partnership  Programme  as  a  voluntary 
framework for mutually beneficial cooperation between 
the developed and developing world in the interests of 
sustainable development. Next Monday, 30 September, 
Kazakhstan will host the International Conference on 
the  Green  Bridge  Partnership  Programme  in  Astana 
with 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific,  the  Economic  Commission  for  Europe  and 
other stakeholders. At that Conference the programme 
will be institutionalized and its secretariat established.
Kazakhstan  has  made  voluntary  commitments  to 
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions within the framework 
of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions 
and investing in low-carbon development, all of which 
constitute Kazakhstan’s contribution to the Secretary-
General’s  global  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative 
and other initiatives aimed at sustainable development.
I am pleased to inform members that Kazakhstan’s 
capital,  Astana,  will  host  the  international  exhibition 
EXPO  2017,  entitled  “Energy  for  the  Future”,  which 
is  designed  to  disseminate  best  practices  in  the 
field  of  sustainable  energy.  On  the  basis  of  national 
consultations,  we  have  developed  a  number  of 
recommendations  on  development  goals  for  the  post-
2015 agenda and submitted them to the United Nations. 
We believe that those Millennium Development Goals 
that  were  not  reached  must  be  included  in  the  post-
2015  agenda,  in  conjunction  with  the  objectives  of 
sustainable  development.  International  partnerships 
8/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
must  be  strengthened  for  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation so as to complement official development 
assistance activities. Strengthening resilience in order 
to  withstand  external  factors  such  as  climate  change 
and  the  financial  and  food  crises  will  have  to  gain 
priority under the new agenda.
For 
the 
first 
time  since 
In that regard, Kazakhstan’s chairmanship of the last 
and symbolic twentieth session of the Commission on 
Sustainable Development effected its official transition 
and  handover  to  the  High-Level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development.  The  establishment  of  the 
High-Level  Political  Forum  is  historic  as  a  universal 
platform to meet current realities, closely linked with 
global  security,  which  justifies  the  rationale  for  a 
direct  nexus  between  the  High-Level  Political  Forum 
and  the  Security  Council  over  the  issues  of  food,  the 
environment, energy and water security.
its 
independence, 
Kazakhstan  has  announced  its  candidature  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period  2017  to  2018,  based  on  the  principles  of  fair 
and  equitable  geographical  rotation  and  the  adequate 
representation of all States members of the Asia-Pacific 
regional  group.  The  experience  we  have  gained  from 
recently chairing a number of regional and international 
organizations and forums, such as the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation, the Conference on Interaction 
and  Confidence-building  Measures 
the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization,  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty  Organization  and  others,  gives  us  unique 
access to a wide and diverse range of experiences and 
approaches  to  solving  international  security  problems 
addressed by the Security Council.
in  Asia, 
If  elected,  Kazakhstan  will  unfailingly  be  united 
with  others  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  will  support 
efforts  to  reform  the  Council,  transforming  it  into  a 
more  representative  and  transparent  body  that  can 
effectively  address  the  full  range  of  challenges  and 
threats facing the world today. We therefore count on 
the broad support of Member States for our candidacy 
to the Security Council for the period 2017 to 2018.
Last  year,  Kazakhstan  celebrated  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  its  accession  to  the  United  Nations, 
and  this  year  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  a  United 
Nations  presence  in  our  country.  Our  Government 
and people strongly support the United Nations in all 
its  programmes.  Kazakhstan  acts  as  a  geographical 
and political bridge between North and South, Europe 
and Asia. For that reason, it is ideally suited to foster 
cooperative initiatives in that vast regional landscape. 
Promoting Kazakhstan to the status of a middle-income 
country represents both challenges and opportunities for 
the development agenda, shifting the focus from being 
a  recipient  country  to  that  of  a  regional  development 
partner.
Regional cooperation is critical to ensuring national 
and regional security. Persistent conflict and instability 
in  Afghanistan  also  have  an  effect  on  Central  Asia. 
Poverty,  unemployment  and  growing  disparities  in 
economic  and  social  development  in  the  countries  of 
Central Asia are strong factors indicating the potential 
for  new  mass  population  movements, 
instability, 
environmental degradation, drug trafficking, religious 
extremism and terrorism, all of which must be addressed 
through  regional  cooperation.  Such  collaboration  can 
be  facilitated  through  the  establishment  of  a  United 
Nations multi-country centre in Kazakhstan in the city 
of Almaty as a hub for promoting regional development, 
security  and  stability.  Kazakhstan  is  ready  to  bear 
all  the  costs  for  the  construction,  equipping  and 
maintenance of such a United Nations office bridging 
the gap between Vienna and Bangkok.
The  20  years  of  Kazakhstan’s  membership  and 
the  United  Nations  have  been 
cooperation  with 
characterized by the highest dedication to the ideals and 
principles of the world Organization. We will continue 
to play the role of an engaged and responsible Member 
State,  ready  to  take  on  increased  responsibilities  and 
consistently implement them in full.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Marty Natalegawa, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Indonesia. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 
congratulating  His  Excellency  Ambassador  John 
Ashe on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  May  I  also  take 
this opportunity to commend His Excellency Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić for his skilful stewardship of the sixty-seventh 
session. Our profound appreciation of course also goes 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his inspirational 
leadership of the Organization.
The  theme  of  this  session  —  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”  —  is  timely 
and well-chosen, for we are now making the final push 
13-48796
9/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
towards the fulfilment of the Millennium Development 
Goals by the 2015 deadline. Simultaneously, work has 
begun  on  framing  the  post-2015  global  development 
agenda to end extreme poverty and ensure sustainable 
growth  with  equity.  That  agenda  must  be  anchored 
by  a  new  global  partnership  —  a  vision  reflected 
in  President  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono’s  role  as 
one  of  the  three  co-Chairs  of  the  High-level  Panel 
of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development 
Agenda and recognition of the fact that the success of 
the  forthcoming  intergovernmental  process  requires 
the capacity to forge a global consensus to identify and 
build upon common interests. 
Indonesia  has  an  enduring  belief  in  the  efficacy 
and  effectiveness  of  diplomacy,  maintaining  peace 
and security, advancing social progress and economic 
prosperity and promoting democracy, human rights and 
tolerance.
The  conflict  in  Syria  has  long  demanded  such 
a  political  and  diplomatic  solution,  for  amid  the 
undoubted  complexity  of  the  situation  three  key 
points  are  compelling,  namely,  halting  the  violence, 
facilitating  humanitarian  relief  and  beginning  an 
inclusive  political  process  that  reflects  the  wishes  of 
the  Syrian  people.  The  recent  breakthrough  on  the 
issue  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  is  clear  evidence 
that  diplomacy  works.  Further  diplomatic  momentum 
must be generated. The Security Council must be one to 
forcefully make the case for a peaceful settlement. To 
get the parties to the negotiating table, the “Geneva II” 
conference must be convened at the earliest opportunity.
On  the  issue  of  Palestine,  the  full  weight  of 
diplomatic  pressure  must  similarly  be  brought  to 
bear and resolutions of the General Assembly and the 
Security  Council  implemented.  The  historic  injustice 
that  the  Palestinian  people  have  suffered  for  so  long 
must  be  ended.  We  are  encouraged  by  and  welcome, 
therefore, the resumption of direct negotiations between 
Palestine and Israel, the result, no less, of painstaking 
and  relentless  diplomatic  efforts.  The  revival  of  the 
long-stalled  nuclear  disarmament  agenda 
is  also 
key.  In  particular,  as  co-President  of  the  Article  XIV 
Conference  on  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty, Indonesia calls for the early entry into force of 
the Treaty.
The  same  relentless  diplomatic  pursuit  must  be 
applied to what is manifestly in the common interests 
of all, that is, the eradication of poverty, the promotion 
of sustainable development and inclusive financing and 
overcoming the challenges of climate change. We have 
in ourselves the wherewithal to address the development 
challenges of our time — for example, to work for an 
early conclusion of the Doha development agenda and a 
new climate-change regime by 2015.
Key to that, however, must be a strong commitment 
to  the  spirit  of  partnership  and  an  unshakeable  belief 
in  the  power  of  multilateralism:  cooperation  and 
collaboration  rather  than  discord  and  division.  The 
development agenda must work for all countries, large 
or  small,  developed  and  developing.  Each  of  us  must 
share responsibility. Developed countries must take the 
lead, while developing countries must do more.
The pursuit of a diplomatic path becomes fraught 
with challenges in a complex and fast-changing world 
where the issues of governance, human rights violations, 
extremism  and 
intolerance  within  countries  can 
quickly  gain  inter-State  dimensions.  We  must  ensure 
that the institutions of the United Nations are ready to 
address  such  contemporary  challenges.  Therefore,  as 
countries  embark  upon  a  process  of  democratization 
and the promotion and protection of human rights, as 
they  draw  a  line  against  intolerance  and  extremism, 
the  international  community,  the  United  Nations, 
must  contribute  towards  ensuring  an  atmosphere  that 
is conducive to their peaceful transformation, one that 
reflects the wishes of the peoples concerned.
Together  with  its  partners  in  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  Indonesia  is 
steadily  developing  a  regional  architecture  conducive 
to  the  peaceful  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
democracy.  It  is  called  the  ASEAN  Political-Security 
Community.  Together  with  the  economic  community 
and  sociocultural  community  pillars,  it  makes  up  the 
ASEAN  Community  that  we  are  to  achieve  by  2015. 
Through a process of sharing lessons learned derived 
from our respective successes and setbacks, we provide 
mutual  encouragement  and  support  in  our  promotion 
of  the  principles  of  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and 
good governance, and respect for and the promotion of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  as  inscribed 
in the ASEAN Charter.
Beyond  South-East  Asia,  Indonesia  is  pursuing 
the  same  positive  and  constructive  approach  through 
what is called the Bali Democracy Forum, a platform 
for countries in the wider region to shareone anothers’ 
experiences.  At  all  levels  —  national,  regional  and 
10/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
global —  we  remain  steadfast  in  promoting  tolerance 
and religious freedom, pushing back against prejudice 
and  intolerance  and  building  partnerships,  harmony 
and mutual respect. Indonesia recognizes, therefore, the 
special responsibility incumbent upon it as host of the 
United Nations Alliance of Civilizations Global Forum 
in 2014, one that aims to promote unity in diversity.
The  primacy  of  diplomacy  and  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  over  war  and  conflict  is  not 
more  evident  than  in  the  quiet  and  yet  fundamental 
transformations 
in 
our  region,  South-East  Asia.  Notwithstanding  the 
continuing  challenges,  Indonesia  believes  that  the 
dividends  of  peace  and  stability  are  self-evident: 
economic and social progress.
that  have  been 
taking  place 
The continued stability and security of the region 
is  therefore  the  key  to  securing  our  prosperity.  Peace 
and  development  are  indivisible.  With  other  ASEAN 
nations,  Indonesia  has  worked  constantly  to  develop 
the  region’s  capacity  to  manage  and  overcome  any 
potential  for  conflict  and  to  ensure  that  it  remains  a 
net contributor to international peace and security; to 
extend the arc of stability beyond South-East Asia to the 
Asia-Pacific region at large while promoting common 
security,  common  prosperity  and  common  stability 
for all in the region; and, through commitments to the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  renunciation 
of the use or threat of force, to ensure that the region 
places diplomacy at the forefront.
Indonesia will be tireless in promoting the primacy 
of diplomacy, and unwavering in its belief in the noble 
goals of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zalmai  Rassoul,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Rassoul  (Afghanistan):  I  bring  to  all  warm 
greetings  and  the  good  wishes  of  the  Afghan  people. 
I  have  the  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
in  the  last  year  of  the  current  elected  Government  of 
Afghanistan. I therefore think that it is useful briefly to 
revisit the story of Afghanistan over the past 12 years, 
our  historic  successes,  the  achievements  that  have 
transformed  Afghanistan  and,  yes,  the  challenges  we 
have  faced  continuously  during  that  time.  I  should 
then  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  the  vision  of 
the  Afghan  people  and  Government  for  the  future  of 
freedom,  dignity,  prosperity  and  democracy  that  we 
are striving to solidify in our country and, briefly, to 
address  the  critical  importance  of  our  relations  and 
cooperation with countries in our region and with the 
broader community of nations.
To  better  illustrate  the  journey  that  Afghanistan 
and its noble people have been on over the past 12 years, 
I  should  like  to  share  two  contrasting  pictures  of  the 
reality of Afghanistan — in the year 2001, at the time of 
the collapse of the Taliban regime, and in the year 2013, 
as we are going through a historic period and a process 
of transition.
For a little more than two decades prior to November 
2001, when the Afghan people ousted the Taliban regime 
from  power,  with  military  backing  from  the  United 
States-led  international  military  coalition,  the  people 
of Afghanistan suffered incalculable pain, deprivation 
and  losses  through  three  distinct  periods.  Between 
the communist coup in 1978, followed by the invasion 
of our country in 1979, and the fall of the communist 
regime, more than 1 million Afghan men, women and 
children  were  killed,  more  than  2  million  were  made 
orphans or left with severe war wounds, and more than 
5  million  were  forced  out  of  their  villages  and  towns 
into refugee camps in neighbouring countries, mainly 
in Pakistan and Iran, as a result of the brutality of the 
occupation and the communist regime and in the course 
of our resistance against that occupation. We fought for 
our freedom and independence — our holy jihad — and 
we  won,  in  the  process  helping  the  national  freedom 
and independence movements in Eastern Europe.
The international community that had supported our 
struggle for several years abandoned us when the defeat 
and  withdrawal  of  the  Red  Army  became  apparent. 
Exploiting the vacuum and internal strife created during 
the early 1990s, the foreign-backed Taliban movement 
rose to power and quickly controlled more than 90 per 
cent  of  Afghan  territory.  Then,  equally  quickly,  they 
removed  their  masks  and  revealed  their  true  identity, 
holding the Afghan nation hostage and embarking on a 
period of particularly cruel and barbaric violence and 
cruelty under the guise of Islam. With their backward 
views, violence and brutal suppression of the rights and 
freedoms of the Afghan people, especially women, they 
turned  our  country  against  itself.  The  international 
community did not mobilize to take action against the 
Taliban  regime  until  the  9/11  terrorist  attacks  in  the 
United States, including in this city.
At the end of 2001, when, with the military backing 
of the United States-led international coalition, we were 
getting ready to drive the Taliban regime from power, 
13-48796
11/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
Afghanistan was in near-total isolation from the region 
and the world community. The Afghan people were a 
terrorized  population,  without  rights  or  freedoms  and 
without protection from the Taliban regime’s brutality. 
Severe  poverty  and  disease  were  endemic,  with  little 
or  no  access  to  health-care  services.  The  education 
system,  which  completely  excluded  women  and  girls 
and  had  fewer  than  half  a  million  male  students 
attending schools and universities, was a catastrophic 
failure.  The  average  annual  per  capita  income  was 
about  $100  and  the  country  lacked  a  single  national 
currency.  Our  roads,  bridges,  irrigation  networks  and 
other  components  of  critical  national  infrastructure 
were  completely  destroyed.  Afghanistan  was  without 
a national army or a national police force, and all our 
other State institutions had been reduced to nothing. In 
short, Afghanistan was a failed State, ruled by a proxy 
militant  group  that  provided  shelter  to  international 
terrorists,  thus  posing  a  real  danger  to  regional  and 
international peace and security.
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  during  that  period 
was indeed bleak. The Afghan people had little hope for 
their own or their children’s future. However, following 
the Al-Qaida terrorist attacks in the United States, the 
Afghan people came together and, with support from the 
United States and a multitude of other friends and allies 
in  the  international  community,  removed  the  Taliban 
from  power  and  embarked  upon  a  new  era  of  hope, 
reconstruction,  development  and  progress  —  a  new 
era  marked  by  an  entirely  different  reality.  Primarily 
as a result of our own sacrifices and the considerable 
sacrifices and support of our international friends and 
allies during our 12-year partnership, Afghanistan once 
again  has  become  the  home  of  all  Afghans,  men  and 
women,  where  they  enjoy  equal  rights  and  freedoms 
under our democratic Constitution.
Today  Afghanistan  is  a  forward-looking  young 
democracy with functioning State institutions, an elected 
President, an elected Parliament and elected provincial 
councils in each one of our 34 provinces, backed up by a 
powerful civil society movement. Afghan independent 
media,  with  approximately  50  independent  television 
channels, more than 100 community FM radio stations 
and hundreds of print publications, are arguably among 
the  freest  in  the  region.  Today  there  are  more  than 
20  million  mobile-phone  users  across  Afghanistan, 
an  increasing  number  of  them  accessing  information 
and using various platforms on the Internet. Per capita 
income has increased from $100 a year to $600 a year, 
our  national  currency  has  been  consistently  stable, 
and  our  trade  ties  with  the  outside  world  are  rapidly 
expanding.
Today in the new Afghanistan the number of children 
attending school stands at well over 10 million, 40 per 
cent of them girls, and there are hundreds of thousands 
of  young  men  and  women  attending  some  70  public 
and private colleges and universities. More than 70 per 
cent  of  our  people  today  have  access  to  basic  health-
care services. That, among other things, has increased 
average life expectancy from approximately 40 years to 
more the 60 years in just one decade.
infrastructure, 
We  have  built  thousands  of  kilometres  of  roads, 
irrigation  canals,  bridges  and  other  pieces  of  our 
country’s  critical  physical 
thereby 
cutting travel time and facilitating trade and movement 
within  the  country  and  with  neighbouring  countries. 
Afghanistan  today  is  a  proud  and  active  member  of 
the international community, while managing its ever-
expanding relations and cooperation with countries and 
organizations throughout the world, through a network 
of some 70 diplomatic and consular missions.
The  examples  of  rejuvenation  and  development, 
progress  and  achievements  that  I  have  just  described 
represent  the  true  picture  of  today’s  Afghanistan. 
Considering  that  12  years  is  not  a  very  long  time  in 
the history of a country, especially a country such as 
Afghanistan,  which  has  gone  through  more  than  35 
years of war and destruction, those achievements and 
gains are nothing short of a historic transformation. 
I  have  drawn  that  clear  contrast  between  the 
Afghanistan of 10 years ago and the positive reality of 
today for two main reasons: first, to underscore a model 
of  collective  action  and  international  cooperation  in 
support  of  one  country’s  efforts  to  establish  peace, 
security  and  development;  and,  secondly,  to  counter 
a  narrative  of  doom  and  gloom  for  Afghanistan  by 
those  who  are  ignorant  about  our  progress,  or  who 
harbour  ill-will  towards  us.  The  new  Afghanistan  is 
indeed  currently  going  through  a  critical  period  of 
security,  economic  and  political  transition  that  comes 
with its difficulties and challenges but that is helping 
us  to  consolidate  our  fledgling  democratic  order  and 
strengthening  our  national  sovereignty,  independence 
and ownership of our own affairs.
That  is  the  vision  of  the  Afghan  people  and 
Government for the years leading up to the completion 
of  the  transition  in  2014  and  into  the  transformation 
decade  of  2015  to  2024.  In  the  security  area  it  is  our 
12/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
more  than  350,000  brave  and  professional  soldiers 
and police officers — not foreign soldiers — who are 
directly responsible for the security of more than 90 per 
cent of the Afghan population. The transfer of security 
responsibilities from the international forces to Afghan 
national  security  forces,  launched  in  the  summer  of 
2011,  will  be  completed  throughout  the  country  by 
the  end  of  2014.  Our  forces  have  demonstrated  their 
courage, commitment and effectiveness in successfully 
taking  over  from  their  international  partners.  It  is 
through  the  enormous  and  selfless  sacrifices  of  our 
proud and patriotic national security forces on a daily 
basis  that  security  in  most  cities  and  towns  that  have 
gone through transition has improved and the Taliban 
have been beaten back. We are fully confident that, with 
the continued financial assistance of the international 
community for equipment and other requirements and 
needs, as pledged at the Chicago NATO Summit in May 
2012,  Afghan  national  forces  will  be  able  to  provide 
security to the Afghan people and defend the country 
against external threats.
Parallel  to  our  ongoing  efforts  to  enhance  the 
capacity  and  capabilities  of  our  national  security 
forces, the Afghan Government is pursuing a political 
process  of  peace  and  reconciliation  with  the  Taliban. 
The  key  principles  and  conditions  for  that  process 
are  clear:  respect  for  Afghanistan’s  Constitution, 
which  guarantees  full  and  equal  rights  to  Afghan 
men  and  women;  the  preservation  and  enhancement 
of  the  advances  made  over  the  past  decade;  and  the 
renunciation of violence against the population.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan, a major neighbour, 
can  play  a  key  role  in  supporting  our  peace  process. 
We have been heartened by the recent successful visit 
to Islamabad by President Karzai and the positive and 
constructive dialogue that took place between the two 
Governments  during  that  visit.  We  look  forward  to 
further steps and progress in the weeks and months to 
come. Pakistan’s essential role in advancing the Afghan 
peace  process  is  a  clear  example  of  the  support  that 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours  and  other  countries  in  the 
region, especially Muslim countries, can provide to the 
Afghan peace process.
As  far  as  the  economic  component  of  transition 
is  concerned,  the  presence  of  a  large  international 
military  force  over  the  past  10  years  has  generated 
employment and income opportunities for thousands of 
our citizens, so it is natural that there will be an adverse 
impact resulting from the withdrawal of those forces. 
In  addition  to  our  best  efforts  to  fulfil  Afghanistan’s 
role  as  the  trade,  transit  and  economic  integration 
roundabout in the heart of Asia region for the benefit 
of all people of the region, the Afghan Government is 
keen  to  reduce  the  negative  economic  impact  of  the 
international military withdrawal and to strengthen our 
national economy in at least three ways. 
The first is by focusing on the development of the 
agriculture and agribusiness sector, in which more than 
70  per  cent  of  our  population  is  directly  or  indirectly 
engaged,  and  where  there  is  enormous  potential  for 
growth and employment generation. 
Secondly, Afghanistan is estimated to hold trillions 
of dollars of natural resources, including minerals and 
hydrocarbons,  representing  a  guaranteed  source  of 
wealth and income for generations to come. We already 
have several State-owned and private companies — from 
China, India, the United Kingdom, Canada, Turkey, the 
United Arab Emirates and other countries, in addition 
to Afghan companies — expressing a keen interest in 
investing  billions  of  dollars  in  copper,  iron  ore,  gold, 
rare-Earth  minerals,  oil  and  gas.  We  are  actively 
seeking to attract additional foreign investment to this 
sector, while remaining duly diligent to make sure that 
our natural riches serve the goal of a strong legitimate 
national economy and improved prosperity and welfare 
for the Afghan people.
Thirdly,  the  Tokyo  Conference  last  July  pledged 
more than $16 billion through 2015 to help the Afghan 
Government  fill  its  projected  fiscal  gap.  Conference 
participants  also  committed  to  providing  additional 
financial  assistance  to  Afghanistan  beyond  2016  at 
or  near  the  levels  of  the  past  decade.  That  generous 
financial support will be critical in tiding us over the 
next few years.
transfer  power 
In addition to the security and economic transitions, 
we  have  a  crucial  political  transition  coming  up  next 
year,  namely,  the  presidential  and  provincial  council 
elections. Next year’s presidential elections will mark 
the first time in our history that one elected President 
will 
to  another  elected  President 
through  a  peaceful  democratic  process.  The  Afghan 
Government  is  doing  everything  possible  to  ensure 
free,  fair  and  credible  elections,  so  that  the  Afghan 
people  can  choose  who  the  next  President  will  be.  A 
successful  presidential  election  will  entrench  our 
democratic process and greatly contribute to our efforts 
towards lasting peace, security and prosperity.
13-48796
13/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
As  we  go  forward  in  implementing  the  transition 
agenda  and  preparing  for  the  transformation  decade, 
another  key  foundation  of  our  long-term  success  will 
be the strategic partnerships we have forged with some 
of our closest friends and allies over the past few years. 
Since October 2011, when we signed our first long-term 
strategic  partnership  agreement  with  the  Republic  of 
India, we have entered into similar partnerships with the 
United States, Germany, Australia, France, the United 
Kingdom, Italy, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Poland. 
We  have  also  concluded  or  are  currently  negotiating 
similar partnerships with the European Union, Turkey 
and the United Arab Emirates. In that regard, I should 
like  to  reiterate  the  Afghan  Government  and  people’s 
appreciation for the solid and broad-based expression of 
long-term political support for a peaceful, prosperous, 
democratic  Afghanistan  by  more  than  100  countries 
and  organizations  at  the  historic  international  Bonn 
Conference, kindly hosted by the German Government 
in December 2011. 
With  the  United  States,  we  are  negotiating  a 
separate  bilateral  security  agreement  that  will  define 
the  parameters  of  the  long-term  security  and  defence 
cooperation  between  our  two  countries.  I  should  like 
to  reiterate  our  long-standing  principled  position  that 
any  bilateral  security  agreements  that  Afghanistan 
signs with other countries, including the United States, 
will  be  purely  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  peace, 
security,  development  and  the  consolidation  of  our 
young  democracy,  and  not  directed  at  our  neighbours 
or any countries in the region. Afghanistan belongs to 
its region. As recent history has clearly demonstrated, 
the peace, security and stability of Afghanistan, as the 
centre of the heart of Asia region, has a direct impact 
on the peace, security and stability of the entire region, 
and  vice  versa.  We  want  Afghanistan  to  serve  its 
rightful  role  as  a  key  land  bridge  in  our  vital  region 
for the flow of people, goods and investments. In that 
context, the Istanbul Process on Regional Security and 
Cooperation for a Secure and Stable Afghanistan, which 
we launched together with our Turkish friends and all 
other participating and supporting States in November 
2011,  is  of  vital  importance  for  confidence-building 
and promoting results-oriented cooperation. 
Two  follow-on  ministerial  meetings,  in  Kabul  in 
June  2012  and  in  Almaty  in  April  of  this  year,  have 
taken  the  Process  to  the level of  maturity.  It  has  now 
developed  into  a  meaningful  forum  for  discussion  on 
specific  confidence-building  measures  and  enjoys 
considerable  momentum.  As  the  permanent  co-Chair 
of the Process, the Afghan Government is particularly 
grateful to the People’s Republic of China for hosting 
the next ministerial meeting next summer.
In addition to improving cooperation and confidence 
on  a  whole  range  of  other  issues,  all  countries  in  our 
region,  and  our  allies  and  friends  in  the  international 
community,  must  continue  decisively  to  confront 
the  single  biggest  challenge  that  still  endangers  our 
collective  peace  and  security  and  undermines  the 
welfare of our people, namely, the continuing menace 
of  terrorism  and  extremism  and  their  sanctuaries  and 
support systems in the region. We will not achieve the 
full potential of our citizens or realize true and lasting 
peace and security in Afghanistan or the wider region 
until  we  have  dealt  decisively  with  the  brutality  and 
evilness of the terrorists who try to harm us every day. 
Fortunately, we are more hopeful now than in the past 
about a gathering common approach against terrorism 
and extremism in our region. 
This year’s General Assembly session is taking place 
at a time in which the United Nations has seen a number 
of conflicts continue, while new ones have taken shape. 
In Syria, we watch the ongoing immeasurable suffering 
of  the  great  people  of  that  country.  Afghanistan  calls 
for an immediate halt to the violence there, which has 
taken  the  lives  of  more  than  100,000  people,  forced 
more  than  2  million  Syrians  to  become  refugees  and 
left 6.8 million people in urgent need of humanitarian 
assistance.  We  strongly  support  a  political  solution, 
reached  through  a  broad-based  national  dialogue  that 
meets  the  aspirations  of  all  Syrians.  Moreover,  the 
international  community  must  provide  the  support 
necessary to address the humanitarian needs of those 
affected  by  the  conflict,  including  the  millions  who 
have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. 
Speaking of long-standing conflicts, none is more 
evident than the decades-long strife between Palestine 
and  Israel.  Following  years  of  deadlock  and  impasse, 
we  see  that  renewed  efforts  for  a  peaceful  settlement 
have emerged with the resumption of direct negotiations 
between the two sides. That is an important development, 
which we hope will result in durable peace, enabled by 
the establishment of an independent Palestinian State. 
We  also  hope  to  witness  the  inclusion  of  the  State  of 
Palestine as a full Member of the Organization.
In  conclusion,  as  I  stand  before  the  Assembly,  I 
feel more strongly than ever that our shared vision of a 
world free from violence, conflict and destitution will 
be achieved only if we put our differences aside and act 
14/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
as one. If we adhere to the principles of understanding, 
solidarity and cooperation, we will be able to secure our 
collective future, as evidenced in the historic successes 
we have achieved in Afghanistan over the past 12 years.
The United Nations has been a reliable partner in 
helping us come this far. As we prepare to embark upon 
the transformation decade, we expect the Organization 
to continue its support through a renewed approach that 
reinforces Afghanistan’s leadership and ownership. Let 
me also assure the Assembly that, as we in Afghanistan 
work to preserve our gains and consolidate our young 
democracy in the crucial years ahead, we will remain 
an active Member of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Erkki  Tuomioja,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Finland.
Mr.  Tuomioja  (Finland):  We  have  convened  here 
in New York at a time that poses enormous challenges 
to the authority and credibility of the United Nations. 
First, we are at a crossroads where we have to decide 
the  future  course  to  attain  sustainable  development. 
Speaking for Finland at the Rio de Janeiro Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20),  I  stressed 
that,  faced  with  advancing  climate  change  and  the 
accelerating  loss  of  biodiversity,  we  might,  at  best, 
have only a few decades in which to reach ecologically, 
socially  and  economically  sustainable  development. 
Decisive action based on a sense of urgency is needed 
to  turn  the  tide  globally  before  it  is  too  late.  Either 
we succeed in that together or we are going to perish 
together.
This week, we have taken stock of progress towards 
the Millennium Development Goals. They have been a 
powerful tool to direct our action. In the near future, 
we are expected to agree on a new development agenda, 
a  new  set  of  goals  that,  in  my  view,  could  be  called 
sustainable development goals. A green economy is not 
a luxury, but a prerequisite, for poverty reduction and 
sustainability.  In  short,  the  new  agenda  must  be  even 
bolder  and  more  ambitious  than  the  previous  one.  Its 
implementation will require action in all countries.
Secondly,  we  are  facing  a  failure  of  the  United 
Nations to act in its core domain, that is, in maintaining 
peace  and  security.  One  hundred  and  ten  thousand 
people  have  been  killed  and  2  million  people  have 
been  forced  to  leave  their  homes  in  Syria,  where  a 
tragic  civil  war  has  been  going  on  for  more  than  two 
years. The United Nations has been unable to act to end 
that appalling bloodshed. That is another of the major 
challenges for the credibility of the United Nations. Let 
me elaborate on those challenges. 
With more than a threefold increase in the world’s 
population  since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations 
and  with  unprecedented  technological  progress  and 
the  ever-increasing  exploitation  of  natural  resources, 
the  world  has  changed  irrevocably.  We  must  now 
arrange  our  existence  with  our  natural  environment 
in  a  new  way.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  said, 
sustainable  development  is  the  pathway  to  the  future. 
Ecological  sustainability  —  respecting  the  planetary 
boundaries  —  is  the  foundation  for  all  development. 
The  alarming  trend  in  climate  change  underlines  the 
urgent need to heed those limits. We must work together 
towards  a  comprehensive  climate  agreement  by  2015. 
The consequences of climate change are already to be 
seen worldwide. The impacts are predicted to intensify 
in the coming years and decades. For instance, billions of 
people lack access to safe water sources and sanitation. 
Without  radical  reforms,  that  number  is  expected  to 
rise dramatically. There is also significant potential for 
conflicts over water and other natural resources in the 
coming years.
Considerable progress has been made in reducing 
extreme  poverty.  Millions  of  people  have  had  a 
chance  to  lift  themselves  out  of  poverty.  However, 
inequality still persists, and in many cases is increasing 
both  within  countries  and  between  them.  In  several 
countries  not  a  single  Millennium  Development  Goal 
will be attained. More than 1 billion people still live in 
extreme poverty, and they are falling behind. Poverty 
can be eradicated only within the context of sustainable 
development.  Development  must  be  ecologically, 
economically and socially sustainable. It must be firmly 
anchored in human rights and the values encapsulated 
in the Millennium Declaration. Peace and security are 
a precondition for sustainable development. 
The  post-2015  process  must  also 
include  a 
financing  strategy  for  sustainable  development.  We 
are honoured, together with Nigeria, to be co-chairing 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing,  mandated  by 
the  Rio+20  Summit.  We  will  work  hard  to  achieve  a 
strategy proposal that is action-oriented and inclusive 
and  covers  a  broad  range  of  different  aspects  of 
development financing.
I  am  convinced  that  sustainable  development 
resource 
financing  must  be  based  on  national 
13-48796
15/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
through 
mobilization and management. Nations should mobilize 
their  own  resources 
inclusive  economic 
action and through responsible international trade and 
investments.  Developing  national  taxation  systems 
and  tax-revenue  collection,  as  well  as  addressing 
unregulated capital flight and putting an end to illegal 
tax evasion and tax havens, should be central elements 
in sustainable development financing. Our own national 
experience shows that taxation is an effective means of 
addressing inequality.
Direct  foreign  investment  can  be  a  driver  for 
Investment  should  be 
growth  and  development. 
sustainable,  accountable  and  adhere  to  norms  of 
corporate  social  responsibility  in  creating  economic 
and  social  development.  The  current  proliferation  of 
bilateral investment agreements, already numbering in 
the thousands, is not the best way to manage investment 
flows  or  set  the  rules  they  should  follow.  As  part  of 
our  efforts  to  promote  sustainable  and  fair  financial 
governance,  Finland  supports  efforts  to  create  an 
international  investment  regime  that  is  transparent, 
balanced and equitable.
The  sustainable  development  goals  must  be 
universal, and they must integrate different dimensions 
of  development.  Fears  that  sustainable  development 
would  challenge  the  traditional  development  agenda 
are unfounded. These agendas are not competing, but 
complement  each  other.  We  must  do  our  utmost  to 
agree on a new way to sustainable development in the 
very  near  future.  Our  planet  and  its  citizens  cannot 
wait.  We,  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
are  shouldering  a  great  responsibility  in  that  respect. 
We must be able to deliver as the United Nations.
We also have more traditional security challenges 
at hand. The conflict in Syria has seriously undermined 
the  authority  and  credibility  of  the  United  Nations. 
The United Nations has not been able to act in its core 
domain  in  maintaining  peace  and  security.  Both  the 
Syrian  Government  and  the  international  community 
have failed to implement their responsibility to protect.
The  situation  in  Syria  started  as  a  peaceful  and 
justified call for reforms. The Government’s response 
then turned it into an increasingly violent conflict and 
a breeding ground for terrorist extremism. That has led 
to  humanitarian  suffering,  which  has  already  reached 
historic proportions. The use of chemical weapons on 
21 August near Damascus can be a turning point in the 
conflict: the universal condemnation of their use as a 
war crime for which those responsible must be brought 
to justice through referral to the International Criminal 
Court.  Finland  welcomes  the  agreement  reached  on 
a  strongly  worded  Security  Council  resolution  to 
collect  and  destroy  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  under 
international control. There can be no impunity for the 
perpetrators of war crimes and other atrocities. 
The agreement has to be followed through with a 
political solution to the conflict. That is the only way 
to  stop  the  violence.  That  means  negotiations.  The 
international community, the parties to the conflict and 
especially the Security Council must take responsibility 
for working towards political negotiations. We continue 
to support the initiative of the United States and Russia 
of  proposing  the  “Geneva  II”  conference,  as  well  as 
the mediation by the United Nations and Arab League 
Joint  Special  Representative,  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi. 
All permanent members of the Security Council must 
shoulder their responsibility.
The  humanitarian  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people 
continues.  We  all  must  intensify  our  work  to  help 
the  refugees  and  support  the  neighbouring  countries 
bearing  the  heaviest  burdens.  The  United  Nations 
will also need to have a strong presence in Syria after 
the  arms  have  fallen  silent.  Finland  stands  ready  to 
contribute  to  a  possible  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operation to be established in Syria.
The resumption of direct final status negotiations 
between the Palestinians and the Israelis is long-awaited 
and most welcome news. Since the Oslo agreement 20 
years ago, it has been clear that the best outcome for all 
the parties is a two-State solution, which can accomplish 
a reign of peace and security for the two peoples. We 
may still have at hand perhaps the last chance for such 
a  resolution  of  the  conflict.  When  I  say  “perhaps  the 
last chance”, it is not because I think there may be more 
chances later, but rather it is because, at worst, the last 
chance may already have been missed. But it is our duty 
to  make  the  effort  to  achieve  a  negotiated  two-State 
solution.
Finland  commends  Secretary  Kerry’s  dedication 
and  the  personal  commitment  demonstrated  by  the 
parties. The entire international community must lend 
all its support for the negotiations to succeed. That must 
be concrete and effective support. The role of regional 
partners is crucial, and I welcome the efforts made by 
the League of Arab States in reviewing the Arab Peace 
Initiative.
16/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
The  situations  in  both  Syria  and  the  Middle  East 
and  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  have  been 
the  subject  of  important  mediation  efforts.  I  call  for 
stronger  political  will  and  determination  to  resolve 
those conflicts. The parties must work harder and the 
Security  Council,  especially  its  permanent  members, 
must shoulder their responsibility. While those efforts 
have  yet  to  meet  with  success,  I  believe  that  we  also 
have  ample  evidence  to  show  that  mediation  works. 
Measures under Chapter VI of the Charter of the United 
Nations  deserve  more  attention,  although  sometimes 
action  under  Chapter  VII  is  also  needed.  Finland  and 
Turkey  continue  to  co-Chair  the  Group  of  Friends 
of  Mediation  and  to  work  to  strengthen  preventive 
diplomacy, including mediation in the United Nations.
Mediation can succeed only with political will from 
the parties and the international community. Successful 
mediation also calls for the full and equal participation 
of women at all stages. Women are certainly most often 
the victims of conflicts, but we should also understand 
that  they  are  essential  participants  for  any  mediation 
efforts to bear long-lasting success.
Efforts to promote peace and security in the Middle 
East should go in parallel with the pursuit of the long-
time goal of the establishment of a zone free of nuclear 
weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction in 
that region. I encourage all regional parties to continue 
to  engage  constructively  with  the  facilitator  and  the 
four  conveners,  as  well  as  with  one  another,  to  pave 
the way for a conference on the establishment of such 
a zone.
All our failures and disappointments notwithstanding, 
there has also been one true success story for the United 
Nations this year. I am referring to the Arms Trade Treaty 
(ATT),  which  was  adopted  in  April  after  decades  of 
effort. It was a success not only for the United Nations 
system  but  for  the  whole  international  community 
and  the  arms  control  regime.  The  importance  of  the 
Treaty has been confirmed by the growing number of 
signatories  after  3  June,  when  the  ATT  was  opened 
for signature. We hope and expect that the signing of 
the ATT by the United States will be followed by the 
signing of all other permanent members of the Security 
Council as well. I should also like to congratulate those 
countries that have already ratified the Treaty, thereby 
paving the way for its early entry into force. My own 
country, Finland, is well on its way to ratifying the ATT 
as soon as possible.
Only  when  the  Treaty  enters  into  force  and  is 
implemented  will  it  make  a  real  difference  in  saving 
lives,  minimizing  human  suffering  and  lessening 
criminality  and  threats  to  civilian  populations  by 
providing  the  highest  common  standards  for  the 
trade  in  arms,  ammunition  and  components.  Once 
again,  I  should  like  to  thank  and  congratulate  the 
non-governmental  organization  community  for  its 
dedication  and  tireless  efforts  in  favour  of  the  ATT. 
They  never  lost  their  faith  and  pushed  Governments 
hard to achieve that result. But our work is not yet done. 
Together we must continue to secure the 50 ratifications 
needed  and  ensure  more  to  support  for  the  ATT.  We 
must also persuade those countries that abstained in the 
voting to support a regulated arms trade and the Treaty 
so as to make it universal.
Finland, as one of the seven co-authors, has from the 
beginning been and will in future be very much involved 
with the Arms Trade Treaty. This week, the co-authors 
organized  a  high-level  event  to  promote  the  signing 
of the Treaty. We are also prepared to assist countries 
that  have  difficulties  in  ratifying  and  implementing 
the Treaty. When implemented, the Treaty should also 
have a major impact on development, particularly in the 
least developed countries, where conflicts are a major 
obstacle to development.
The  success  or  failure  of  the  United  Nations 
ultimately depends upon us, the Member States. There 
is no alternative to the United Nations. Let us give it a 
chance. That is what our peoples expect from us.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Elías Jaua Milano, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela.
Mr.  Jaua  Milano 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): At the outset, on behalf 
of  the  people  and  the  President  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  I 
would  like  to  convey  to  General  Assembly  President 
John Ashe our congratulations on his recent election to 
lead this organ of the United Nations. 
As is known, President Maduro Moros is not here 
at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  because  of  a 
whole  range  of  delays,  obstacles,  conditions  imposed 
and  lack  of  guarantees  for  him  and  members  of  his 
delegation, imposed by the Government of the United 
States in flagrant violation of the obligations incumbent 
upon  it  under  the  Headquarters  Agreement.  Despite 
13-48796
17/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
that, we have come here on behalf of the people of the 
liberator, Simón Bolívar, to speak the truth and to ask 
some questions, firmly but respectfully, as we learned 
from our leader, Hugo Chávez Frías, who passed away 
in  March.  In  that  regard,  on  behalf  of  my  people,  I 
should  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  heartfelt 
tribute paid to President Chávez Frías last March (see 
A/67/PV.67).
How  happy  we  would  be  to  be  here  if  we  were 
really  in  a  place  where  we  realized  the  noble  ideals 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Charter  talks  about  saving  succeeding  generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war,  but  the  truth  is  that  various 
military interventions have been decided upon or have 
been  allowed  here  that  have  engulfed  countries  and 
whole regions of the world in long wars and instability. 
The  Security  Council  has  been  taken  hostage  by  the 
hawks  of  war,  and  when  they  can,  they  justify  their 
attacks from there; when they cannot, they simply bang 
on the table and still do whatever they want, which is 
what they are doing when they declare that there will be 
future bombings in the Syrian Arab Republic.
The  Charter  also  states  that  the  purpose  of  the 
Organization  is  to  preserve  international  peace  and 
security. But let me ask: How do some members of the 
Security Council think we can achieve that purpose by 
arming and protecting terrorist groups such as Jabhat 
Al-Nusra and Al-Qaida, which are obscurantist forces? 
Many of those groups are linked to horrible acts such as 
the destruction of the Twin Towers in this very city. They 
deny the existence of anybody who thinks differently 
from  them  —  whether  they  be  Christians,  Muslims 
or Jews — and profess special hatred and rejection of 
women. Why are such groups supported? Why do some 
members of the Security Council sponsor such terrorist 
groups,  window-dressing  them  as  political  opposition 
and even allowing them to give press conferences at this 
venue?  What  would  representatives  of  Governments 
with ongoing internal armed conflicts say if the violent 
groups they faced were to be given space and a voice 
here at Headquarters to justify their downfall?
The Preamble of the Charter also sets out another 
noble  goal:  to  promote  social  progress  and  raise  the 
standard  of  living  in  a  broader  concept  of  freedom. 
In  reality,  however,  poverty,  hunger  and  injustice  are 
continuing to grow and the standard of living and the 
standard of freedoms are falling lower and lower. That 
is because what is imposed on us is a model of excluding 
others — a neo-fascist model — a neo-liberal model.
In  the  meantime,  countries  such  as  Venezuela 
have  chosen  the  path  to  consolidate  real  democracy 
with a socialist system, including the people, and that 
has  enabled  us  to  reach  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. Yet we are constantly attacked and demonized 
and our political and social stability is being disrupted. 
That  is  what  is  happening  at  this  very  moment  with 
the  anti-democratic  opposition  in  our  country,  which 
is being supported by media corporations in the region 
and from the whole world.
Paragraph 4, Article 2, of the Charter of the United 
Nations emphatically states that 
“All members shall refrain in their international 
relations from the threat or use of force against the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of 
any state”. 
Yet the President of the United States — and there is 
the  additional  irritant  that  he  is  a  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
laureate — is threatening to bomb this or that country if 
it does not comply with his country’s unilateral demands, 
which  can  even  include  removing  a  Government  that 
the  United  States  Government  does  not  like.  Perhaps 
that could explain why, despite the fact that the Charter 
talks about the equality of large and small nations, the 
President of the United States said just a couple of days 
ago that the United States was “exceptional”. Does that 
mean that they are not equal with the other 192 States 
Member States represented here?
The  gap  today  between  the  noble  ideals  of  the 
Charter  and  what  is  happening  by  act  or  omission 
here in the Organization is truly alarming. Why does 
nobody  in  the  General  Assembly  venture  to  propose 
that  sanctions  be  imposed  for  open  violations  of  the 
Charter on the Government that has an illegal detention 
centre in the military base at Guantánamo, in occupied 
Cuban territory, where torture and cruel and degrading 
and inhuman treatment is being meted out to persons? 
Why  does  nobody  discuss  sanctions  against 
the  President  who  has  admitted  to  illegal  espionage 
activities  against  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
represented  here?  That  was  a  point  courageously 
made by the President of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff (see 
A/68/PV.5).
Why  do  we  not  consider  the  use  of  unpiloted 
planes  —  so-called  drones  —  which  have  taken  the 
lives of tens of thousands of innocent victims, including 
18/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
children  and  old  people,  in  North  Africa,  the  Middle 
East and parts of Asia to be crimes against humanity?  
Why  do  we  not  impose  sanctions  against  a 
Government that for more than 50 years has maintained 
an illegal and criminal economic blockade against the 
worthy Cuban people, and flouted decisions adopted by 
overwhelming majorities in the Assembly in favour of 
ending the embargo?
Why do we not implement the resolutions adopted 
by  the  plenary  so  that  the  State  of  Palestine  can  be 
established  as  a  peaceful,  just  and  lasting  solution  to 
the ongoing Arab-Israeli conflict? 
Why  does  the  United  Kingdom  not  agree  to  start 
negotiations  with  Argentina  to  resolve  in  a  peaceful 
way  demands  over  the  Malvinas  Islands?  Might  it 
perchance be because the elite of the United States and 
some of its allies are exceptional?
We raise those questions for consideration when it 
comes to the future of humankind, on behalf of the people 
of  Simón  Bolívar —  the  people  of  Venezuela —  who 
love peace, equality and freedom. 
Venezuela has come before the General Assembly 
today to condemn a kidnapping. The Organization has 
been  kidnapped.  The  peace  and  dignity  of  the  world 
are being held hostage in New York. The kidnapper has 
many faces. It changes names and sometimes even flags, 
but  it  continues  to  be  the  same  old  imperalism.  Eight 
years ago, Commander Hugo Chávez Frías — a tireless 
defender  of  genuine  peace,  not  the  peace  imposed  by 
bombs,  and  of  participatory  democracy  and  a  leader 
for  unity  among  peoples —  called  here  for  a  genuine 
transformation of the United Nations. Seven years ago, 
he said that there was a whiff of sulphur here (see A/61/
PV.12). Today, alas, I have to say once again that there is 
still a whiff of sulphur coming from those who consider 
themselves exceptional.
Those  words  are  truer  now  than  ever  before.  The 
courageous  revelations  of  one  young  man  offered  a 
great service to humankind — let us call it a wake-up 
call. As a result, he is now being persecuted politically 
and cannot walk freely in the streets of Manhattan. We 
hope that Edward Snowden will one day be able to walk 
freely  among  a  future  generation  of  Americans  who 
have taken back their civil rights and helped to ensure 
peace in the world. That young man has shown us how 
the privacy of every human being has been violated by 
the most complex and sophisticated spying system that 
humankind has ever been able to come up with.
Thanks  to  those  revelations  this  year,  we  have 
woken  up  to  discover  that  George  Orwell’s  1984  is 
now here. And what is the United Nations doing about 
that?  Who  is  setting  limits  on  so  much  arbitrariness 
and running roughshod? Those are yet more questions 
that find no answers from the General Assembly or the 
Security  Council  of  the  Organization,  which  is  now 
almost 68 years old.
We would like to suggest that the Secretary-General 
set up a body within the United Nations to ensure for 
every inhabitant in the world the right to privacy and 
the  right  to  communicate  without  interception.  Much 
has been said here calling for peace, but that has often 
fallen on deaf ears. Let us hope that we will all learn 
how important it is to listen to the calls of the people for 
peace, and employ that in tirelessly seeking to elevate 
human dignity as our guiding star.
President  John  Kennedy  spoke  from  this  rostrum 
50 years ago, the last time he would do so at the United 
Nations before being assassinated. How good it would 
be  if  his  current  successor,  and  many  people  here, 
were  to  re-read  just  some  of  what  he  said.  Whatever 
differences we may have had with that historic figure, 
ensuring  peace  requires  that  we  seek  out  areas  of 
agreement such as this:
“For  the  value  of  this  body’s  work  is  not 
dependent on the existence of emergencies — nor 
can the winning of peace consist only of dramatic 
victories.  Peace  is  a  daily,  a  weekly,  a  monthly 
process,  gradually  changing  opinions,  slowly 
eroding  old  barriers,  quietly  building  new 
structures. And, however undramatic the pursuit of 
peace, that pursuit must go on.” (A/PV.1209, p. 5)
Let  us  hope  that  the  leaders  of  the  United  States  and 
those that follow them blindly will think deeply about 
the meaning of what Kennedy said and realize that if 
they  really  want  to  be  exceptional,  they  have  to  find 
exceptional ways of bringing about lasting peace in the 
world.
In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  we  are 
showing that with exceptional decisions and actions we 
can build a world of peace. Unity in diversity is what 
we  have  in  our  regional  organizations:  the  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for 
the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
the  Peoples  of  Our  America,
13-48796
19/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations,  the  Common 
Market of the South and Petrocaribe. All those are tools 
for  democratizing  our  societies  that  promote  socially 
inclusive  economic  development  and  ensure  political 
stability. Despite various internal disputes and conflicts 
between fraternal countries, we have been able to find 
mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of conflict. We 
have  demonstrated  that  without  military  intervention, 
drones  or  economic  blockades,  we  can  build  and 
preserve  genuine  democracy  and  move  forward  in 
combating hunger, poverty and inequality.
The Venezuelan nation is proud of being part of a 
region that is free of weapons of mass destruction. We 
reaffirm our commitment to encouraging the complete 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  and  chemical  and 
bacteriological weapons as a way of ensuring that life 
can continue on planet Earth.
In  his  various  statements  before  the  Assembly, 
Commander  Chávez  Frías  called  for  improving  the 
means for addressing problems and resolving conflicts 
in  a  transparent  manner.  He  also  pointed  out  that,  in 
the  face  of  today’s  reality,  there  was  a  crucial  need 
to  consider  whether  the  Headquarters  of  the  United 
Nations  should  be  here  in  this  country  where  the 
Government  does  not  respect  the  Organization,  much 
less the sovereignty of each and every State Member. 
The  United  Nations  should  be  in  a  place  where  there 
is  respect  for  all  Members;  where  the  political  will 
flourishes, without pressure or fear, to end conflict in 
the  world  through  dialogue;  where  the  path  forward 
is  genuine  social  development  and  the  elimination  of 
hunger and poverty; and where what matters is how to 
stop war, not how to justify it.
Let us take the United Nations to the South, where 
the  antithesis  to  exclusion  —  solidarity  —  has  often 
taught  us  that  we  are  in  fact  all  equal.  For  now,  we 
welcome the proposal of President Evo Morales Ayma 
that we should meet in the Organization’s various other 
headquarters in different parts of the world. Beyond the 
shadows that seem to darken the future of the human 
race,  from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  we  are 
saying  and  showing  that  another  world  is  possible 
where  all  of  us  can,  in  peace  and  dignity  and  with 
justice, enjoy lives worth living.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea):  We  all  heard  the  reference  to  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea made this morning by the 
representative  of  South  Korea  (see  A/68/PV.15).  On 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  I  should  like  to  totally  reject  that 
reference  as  misleading  of  the  reality  prevailing  on 
the Korean peninsula and as a distortion of the truth. 
I should like to clarify the position of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea.
First, South Korea made a reference to the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  —  the  seriousness  of  its 
weapons of mass destruction programme. That is one 
part  of  the  story  of  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula; he missed the other part of the story.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
its people have been living with nuclear weapons and 
bombs  over  their  heads  for  decades.  In  1957,  they 
brought  into  South  Korea  the  first  nuclear  weapon, 
marking  the  beginning  of  the  presence  of  nuclear 
weapons and of the largest nuclear-weapon threat. In the 
1970s, it had reached more than 1,000 nuclear weapons 
coming into South Korea, again by the United States. 
In 2002, the United States Administration of that time 
proclaimed the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
to be part of the “axis of evil”, which means it should be 
eliminated. It was listed as a nuclear pre-emptive strike. 
That  blackmailing  and  hostile  policy  of  the  United 
States is continuing and increasing. The international 
community  has  witnessed  the  opening  of  the  largest-
ever joint military exercises between the United States 
and South Korea — twice this year alone, in March and 
August,  involving,  respectively,  500,000  and  200,000 
troops and a massive build-up of whatsoever they have 
as nuclear weapons and their means of delivery.
In that situation, for self-defence, the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  compelled  to 
defend  its  sovereignty  and  prevent  nuclear  weapons 
from  dropping  onto  the  heads  of  its  people.  We  have 
been compelled to have a nuclear deterrent.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  reference  about  a 
nuclear  test  this  year  and  what  he  called  a  ballistic 
20/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
missile launch, I want to correct him when he said that 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea had launched 
a ballistic missile. It was a satellite launch and it was not 
this year, but in December 2012. Again, the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  clarify  its 
position that this was a satellite launch carried out in 
full exercise of its sovereignty — its equal sovereignty 
under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  and  as  a 
State party to the Outer Space Treaty. However, against 
that  fundamental  principle  of  the  Charter  concerning 
respect for sovereignty, the United States took the issue 
of  the  satellite  launch  to  the  Security  Council,  which 
adopted  resolution  2087  (2013),  and  misled  the  world 
by  saying  that  it  was  a  ballistic  missile.  That  was  in 
flagrant violation of sovereignty and an abuse of power 
by  a  so-called  “permanent”  member  of  the  Security 
Council:  the  United  States.  That  has  undermined 
greatly the credibility of the Security Council.
Thirdly, with regard to the reference concerning the 
obligation  to  implement  Security  Council  resolutions 
by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, taking 
the issue of the satellite launch to the Security Council 
has  demonstrated  a  double  standard.  The  Council 
has  never  taken  issue  with  other  satellite  launches: 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  been 
the  only  country.  Again,  as  I  said  earlier,  that  is  a 
double standard and an abuse of power. Therefore, the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea totally rejected 
that Security Council resolution as illegal and has never 
recognized such resolutions.
Fourthly, with regard to giving up the simultaneous 
carrying  out  of  economic  development  and  the  build-
up of nuclear armed forces, that is again a provocation 
against the strategic policy of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. It can never be a political bargaining 
chip.  It  is  a  policy  within  the  security  sphere  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  safeguard 
peace and security, and thereby ensure the environment 
for peaceful economic development. That is an absolute 
guarantee for economic development.
Fifthly,  he  referred  to  the  unilateral  cancelling  of 
separated-family reunions. I want to correct his use of 
the word “cancelled”. We did not cancel. We officially 
announced  that  they  would  be  postponed  until  an 
appropriate climate were established. What do we mean 
by  that?  There  has  been  a  very  positive  development 
with the restarting of the Kaesong Industrial Complex in 
the spirit of the 15 June joint declaration, which was the 
outcome document of the inter-Korean summit in 2000. 
We  showed  maximum  generosity  in  pushing  ahead 
with the declaration, thereby contributing to an easing 
of tension and moving towards a relaxation of tension 
on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Afterwards,  South  Korea 
returned  to  a  confrontational  approach  by  destroying 
and undermining that climate. In such a situation, we 
have  no  other  option  but  to  establish  a  climate  that 
would  be  conducive  to  separated  family  reunions. 
The  15  June  joint  declaration  is  the  fundamental  key 
to  confidence-building,  reconciliation,  cooperation, 
unification and prosperity for the entire Korean nation, 
including both the north and south of Korea. That is the 
only way forward to ease tension and for unification.
I  want  to  kindly  recommend  to  South  Korea  that 
nothing can take the place of the joint declaration, which 
was unanimously welcomed by the General Assembly 
resolution in the year 2000 (resolution 55/11).
Mr.  Shin  Dong-Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  My 
delegation would like to respond to the remarks made 
by  the  delegation  of  North  Korea  on  several  issues 
that were covered by my delegation during the general 
debate.
First,  on  the  issue  of  the  nuclear  programme,  or 
missile  launch,  North  Korea  claimed  that  there  is 
another  part  to  the  story  on  developing  their  nuclear 
programme. It has been made clear that there exist no 
nuclear  weapons  on  our  territory  and  that  it  remains 
our  unchanged  policy  to  observe  and  implement  the 
1992  Joint  Declaration  on  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula, to which North Korea is also a party. 
Needless  to  say,  tension  in  the  region  has  its  roots  in 
North  Korea’s  continued  missile  launch  and  nuclear 
test. North Korea’s argument is nothing more than an 
irresponsible  and  ridiculous  pretext  for  developing  a 
nuclear programme.
On the claim that North Korea launched a satellite 
in December 2012, we would like to make it clear that 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council  resolutions  1718 
(2006),  1874  (2009),  2087  (2013)  and  2094  (2013),  as 
well  as  its  relevant  presidential  statements,  clearly 
demand that North Korea not conduct any launch using 
ballistic-missile  technology.  Given  the  track  record 
of  North  Korea’s  repeated  nuclear  tests  and  missile 
launches, North Korea has no justification for claiming 
any peaceful use of outer space.
Furthermore,  the  argument  of  the  North  Korean 
representative  demonstrated 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has no intention of abiding 
that 
13-48796
21/23
A/68/PV.17 
27/09/2013
by  international  norms.  Article  25  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations provides that Member States agree 
to  accept  and  carry  out  the  decisions  of  the  Security 
Council. Article 103 clearly states that in the event of a 
conflict between the obligations under the Charter and 
obligations  under  any  other  international  agreement, 
the obligations under the Charter prevail. North Korea 
is  thus  bound  by  its  obligations  under  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
On  the  parallel  policy  of  economic  development 
and  nuclear  armament,  the  North  Korean  delegation 
provided  the rationale for their policy. But let me point 
out that the pursuit of a nuclear-weapons programme is 
a violation of the international norm. Given that North 
Korea  receives  assistance  of  more  than  $10  million 
annually  from  the  United  Nations  alone,  it  is  a  great 
pity 
the  North  Korean  authorities  squander 
scarce  resources  on  nuclear  and  missile  development. 
We  believe  that  North  Korea  should  use  its  limited 
resources  to  improve  the  lives  of  its  people,  rather 
than waste them on proscribed activities of developing 
nuclear weapons and missile programmes.
that 
Lastly, on the issue of the family reunions, I must say 
that it is very regrettable that North Korea unilaterally 
cancelled the scheduled family reunions just four days 
before the event, which had been planned with purely 
humanitarian intentions to help heal our people’s pain of 
separation. North Korea’s cancellation of the reunion of 
separated families has shattered hopes, in particular of 
200 separated families that were especially selected for 
the occasion among 10 million divided people in Korea. 
Those families were eagerly anticipating meeting their 
estranged kin. We strongly urge North Korea to reverse 
its inhumane decision and proceed with the reunion of 
the families, in order to help heal the wounds inflicted 
on our people and soothe their anguish.
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea):  I  shall  do  my  best  not  to  go  beyond  the  five 
minutes.
The  South  Korea  representative  has  again  made 
misleading remarks. He talked of the nuclear weapons 
of  somebody  else.  South  Korea  is  under  the  nuclear 
umbrella of the United States. It allowed nuclear weapons 
into the Korean peninsula. That has been undermining 
the peace and security of the Korean peninsula for six 
decades. Concerning nuclear weapons, he did not say 
how long they have been there. He just said they were 
not there. He is not the owner of the nuclear weapons of 
the United States. I kindly ask the United States what is 
the status of the nuclear weapons in South Korea in case 
they are not there. The international norm is to get the 
verification of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
and  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons. The United States has a commitment, a legal 
obligation.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  resolution,    again  I 
want  to  tell  a  story.  South  Korea  launched  a  satellite 
immediately after the launch of that of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. But since it is the so-called 
ally  of  the  United  States,  the  United  States  did  not 
take the issue to the Security Council. The delegation 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  in  its 
first intervention in exercise of the right of reply, said 
that  that  was  a  double  standard.  In  the  history  of  the 
Security Council, how can a satellite launch be a threat 
to peace and security? The mandate of the Council is 
not to take up the issue of a peaceful satellite launch. 
South  Korea  launched,  the  international  community 
quietly observed, and the Security Council kept silent.
Thirdly,  with  regard  to  the  parallel  policy  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, again he made 
the  provocation  and,  again,  this  cannot  be  a  political 
bargaining chip. I make that very clear.
Fourthly,  on  family  reunions,  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  while  the  dialogue  was  going  on,  they 
opened  a  joint  military  exercise  in  August  for  almost 
one month against the climate of the dialogue that had 
been going on. We showed our maximum restraint and 
patience, but they went ahead with the provocation of 
arresting the political figures who favour unification in 
South Korea. They brought them to court, to so-called 
justice, saying they were pro-North Korea factors.
Once  again,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea delegation would like to make clear that the 
15 June joint declaration should be given priority as the 
foremost political document and the only way and the 
fundamental key. South Korea should answer before the 
international community.
Mr. Shin Dong-Ik (Republic of Korea): I will try 
not to exceed the five-minute limit. Perhaps I will not 
need that much time, as I do not feel any need to get 
entangled  with  his  endless  claims  based  on  force  and 
absurd reasoning.
North  Korea  again  denied  being  bound  by  any  of 
the obligations by which the rest of the Member States 
22/23 
13-48796
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.17
abide in a faithful and consistent manner. I must again 
repeat that, according to Article 25 of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  all  Member  States  should  accept  and 
carry out the decisions of the Security Council.
It  is  highly  regrettable  that  the  North  Korean 
delegation  has  again  repeated  its  irrational,  false  and 
arbitrary allegations.
The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m.
13-48796
23/23
