United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
34th plenary meeting
Thursday, 17 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.34
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 114
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the 
Security Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members 
of the Security Council to replace those members whose 
term of office expires on 31 December 2013.
The five outgoing non-permanent members are the 
following: Azerbaijan, Guatemala, Morocco, Pakistan 
and Togo. Those five States cannot be re-elected. Their 
names, therefore, should not appear on the ballot papers.
Apart  from  the  five  permanent  members,  the 
Security  Council  will  include  in  the  year  2014  the 
following  States:  Argentina,  Australia,  Luxembourg, 
the Republic of Korea and Rwanda. The names of those 
States, therefore, should also not appear on the ballot 
papers.
Of  the  five  non-permanent  members  that  will 
remain in office in the year 2014, two are from Africa 
and  Asia-Pacific,  one  is  from  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean,  and  two  are  from  Western  European  and 
Other  States.  Consequently,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
of  General  Assembly  resolution  1991  A  (XVIII),  of 
17  December  1963,  the  five  non-permanent  members 
should  be  elected  according  to  the  following  pattern: 
three  from  the  African  and  Asia-Pacific  States,  one 
from  the  Eastern  European  States,  and  one  from  the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States.  The  ballot 
papers reflect that pattern.
In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is 
an understanding to the effect that, of the three States 
to be elected from among the African and Asia-Pacific 
States,  two  should  be  from  Africa  and  one  should  be 
from Asia-Pacific.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  those 
candidates — their number not exceeding the number 
of  seats  to  be  filled —  receiving  the  greatest  number 
of  votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those  present 
and  voting  will  be  declared  elected.  If  the  number  of 
candidates obtaining a two-thirds majority is less than 
the  number  of  members  to  be  elected,  there  shall  be 
additional ballots to fill the remaining places, the voting 
being restricted to the candidates obtaining the greatest 
number of votes in the previous ballot to a number not 
more than twice the places remaining to be filled.
Also, consistent with past practice, in case a tie vote 
should  make  it  necessary  to  determine  the  candidate 
to be elected or that will proceed to the next round of 
restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
those procedures?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the 
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret 
ballot and there shall be no nominations.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-51586 (E)
*1351586*
A/68/PV.34 
17/10/2013
Regarding candidatures, I have been informed by 
the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective  regional  groups  of 
the  following.  For  the  three  vacant  seats  from  among 
the  African  and  Asia-Pacific  States,  there  are  three 
endorsed candidates, namely, Chad, Nigeria and Saudi 
Arabia. For the one vacant seat from among the Eastern 
European  States,  there  is  one  endorsed  candidate, 
namely, Lithuania. For the one vacant seat from among 
the Latin American and Caribbean States, there is one 
endorsed candidate, namely, Chile.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
we shall now proceed to the election by secret ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now be 
distributed. I request representatives to use only those 
ballot papers that have been distributed.
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot 
papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asia-Pacific 
States, the names of the three States for which they wish 
to vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for the Eastern 
European States, the name of the one State for which 
they wish to vote; and on the ballot papers marked “C”, 
for the Latin American and Caribbean States, the name 
of the one State for which they wish to vote.
A ballot will be declared invalid if it contains more 
names of Member States from the relevant region than 
the number of seats assigned to it. A ballot will also be 
declared invalid if all the names of the Member States 
on  that  ballot  do  not  belong  to  the  relevant  region.  If 
a  ballot  paper  of  a  region  includes  both  the  names  of 
Member States that belong to and that do not belong to 
that region, the ballot remains valid, but only the names 
of the Member States that belong to the relevant region 
will be counted. The names of Member States that do 
not belong to that region will not be counted.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Pereira 
(Brazil),  Mrs.  Vassil  (El  Salvador),  Mr.  Auväärt 
(Estonia),  Ms.  Abrahamsen  (Finland),  Mrs.  Djan 
(Ghana),  Mr.  Biraro  (Rwanda),  Mr.  Cimarra 
Etchenique (Spain) and Mrs. Thanarat (Thailand) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.25  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.10 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Group A — African and Asian-Pacific States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Nigeria 
Chad 
Saudi Arabia 
Senegal 
The Gambia 
Lebanon 
Group B — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
191
0
191
0
191
128
186
184
176
2
2
1
191
1
190
2
188
126
Lithuania 
Croatia 
187
1
Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States
191
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
0
191
Number of valid ballots: 
5
Abstentions: 
186
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
124
Number of votes obtained:
Chile 
186
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority 
and  the  largest  number  of  votes,  Chad,  Chile, 
Lithuania, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia were elected 
members  of  the  Security  Council  for  a  two-year 
term beginning on 1 January 2014.
2/3 
13-51586
17/10/2013 
A/68/PV.34
The President: I congratulate the States that have 
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  I 
thank the tellers for their assistance in this election.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 114.
The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.
13-51586
3/3
