United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
33rd plenary meeting
Monday, 14 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.33
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda items 73, 74 and 130
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible 
for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of 
International Humanitarian Law Committed 
in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan 
Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other 
Such Violations Committed in the Territory of 
Neighbouring States between 1 January and 
31 December 1994
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
eighteenth annual report of the International 
Criminal Tribunal (A/68/270)
Report of the international Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
twentieth annual report of the International 
Tribunal (A/68/255)
International Residual Mechanism for  
Criminal Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the  
first annual report of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (A/68/219)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Judge 
Vagn Joensen, President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda.
Judge  Joensen  (International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  extending  my 
sincere  congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  John 
W.  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  on  his  election  as 
President of the Assembly. I wish you, Sir, a successful 
period in office.
This is the second time that I address the General 
Assembly in my capacity as President of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR).  It  remains 
an  immense  honour  for  me  to  have  this  opportunity 
to  speak  to  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly, 
and  it  is  my  pleasure  to  present  to  the  Assembly  the 
eighteenth  annual  report  of  the  ICTR  (A/68/270).  I 
remain  confident  that  there  will  be  only  two  more 
annual reports delivered by the President of the ICTR 
after the present one, as we have once again continued 
to  make  significant  progress  towards  the  completion 
of our mandate and the transition to the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
During  the  reporting  period,  from  1  July  2012  to 
30  June  2013,  the  Tribunal  issued  its  last  judgement 
concerning one person at the trial level. As expected, 
the notice of appeal from the final ICTR trial judgement, 
in  the  Ngirabatware  case,  has  been  filed  with  and 
will be handled by the Mechanism, making it the first 
appeal against a judgement in a case before the ICTR 
or the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia to be handled by the Mechanism. With this, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-51141 (E)
*1351141*
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
the  Tribunal  has  now  completed  its  work  at  the  trial 
level with respect to all of the 93 accused. That includes 
55 first-instance judgements involving 75 accused, the 
transfer of the files of the three top-level fugitives to the 
Mechanism for trial, 10 referrals of accused in custody 
and fugitives to national jurisdictions, two withdrawn 
indictments and three indictees who died prior to or in 
the course of the trial.
I turn now to appeals. During the reporting period, 
the  Appeals  Chamber  rendered  judgements  in  the 
Gatete,  Mugenzi  and  Mugiraneza  cases,  in  line  with 
projections.  To  date,  the  appellate  proceedings  have 
been concluded in respect of 46 persons, with the final 
six  appeals,  involving  15  persons,  currently  pending. 
The  remaining  appeals  work  is  on  schedule  for 
completion before the end of 2014 with the exception of 
one case, Butare, which involves six accused and which 
will  have  its  oral  arguments  in  2014,  there  remaining 
only the deliberations and the judgement drafting to be 
completed in 2015.
During 
this 
reporting  period, 
The  Registrar  and  I  continue  to  oversee  the 
administrative functions of the Chambers’ monitoring 
of the Uwinkindi trial in Rwanda and will do so until the 
end of 2013, in close coordination with the Mechanism.
the  Appeals 
Chamber also rendered a final decision upholding the 
Trial  Chamber’s  referral  of  the  Munyagishari  case  to 
Rwanda. All responsibilities for the monitoring of the 
Munyagishari  case  in  Rwanda  have  already  become 
the responsibility of the Mechanism, save for the fact 
that the ICTR is still providing interim monitors from 
the  Registry,  who  are  now  working  closely  with  the 
Mechanism staff as interim monitors while monitoring 
arrangements  with  an  organization  are  finalized.  The 
seamless  transfer  of  the  monitoring  of  referred  cases 
is a prime example of the smooth transition under way.
In  December  2012,  the  Security  Council  adopted 
resolution  2080  (2012),  which  extended  the  terms  of 
the  ICTR  Appeals  Chamber  judges  to  enable  them  to 
complete their work. I would like to extend my sincere 
gratitude  both  to  the  Council  for  that  decision  and  to 
the  judges  in  the  Appeals  Chamber  for  continuing  to 
work tirelessly to complete the Tribunal’s work under 
extremely  tight  deadlines  and  making  every  effort  to 
meet the completion dates set forth in resolution 1966 
(2010) while ensuring that the rights of the accused are 
not compromised.
In  that  respect,  the  ICTR  will  sorely  miss  the 
knowledge  and  experience  of  Judge  Andrésia  Vaz  of 
Senegal,  who  resigned  from  her  position  as  appeals 
judge on 31 May 2013. At the time of her resignation, 
Judge  Vaz  was  sitting  on  10  appeals  cases,  and 
accordingly her departure put additional pressure on an 
already strained Appeals Chamber. In order to mitigate 
any  detrimental  effect  on  the  completion  of  appeals 
work that would come with the loss of such an esteemed 
and hard-working judge, I requested that, in accordance 
with  article  12  bis  of  the  statute  of  the  Tribunal,  the 
Secretary-General  appoint  a  replacement  judge  to 
serve the remainder of Judge Vaz’s term. I am pleased 
to  report  that  the  Secretary-General  has  appointed 
Mr. Mandiaye Niang of Senegal as a permanent judge 
of the ICTR to replace Judge Vaz. That appointment is 
most welcome, and we are confident that Judge Niang’s 
previous Tribunal experience will play a crucial role in 
his ability to contribute to the remaining appeals work 
without delay.
During the reporting period, the Secretary-General 
also took action to appoint a new Registrar of the ICTR, 
replacing Mr. Adama Dieng, who left the ICTR in 2012 
to become the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on the Prevention of Genocide. I would like to take this 
opportunity  to  congratulate  the  new  Registrar  of  the 
ICTR,  Mr.  Bongani  Majola,  whose  appointment  took 
effect from 1 January 2013. I must praise Mr. Majola 
for the extreme dedication he has shown in his role of 
representing  the  Secretary-General  at  the  Tribunal  at 
this difficult time in our mandate, and I thank him for 
all  the  hard  work  that  he  has  undertaken  in  the  short 
time since he took office.
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude 
to the Office of the Registrar, as well as to the Offices 
of  the  Mechanism  President  and  Registrar,  for  the 
excellent  cooperation  that  exists  between  our  offices, 
which  has  led  to  the  continued  smooth  transition  of 
functions from the ICTR to the Mechanism.
I  would  next  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend the entire staff of the ICTR, as the significant 
progress we have made towards the completion of our 
mandate  and  transition  to  the  Mechanism  would  not 
have been possible without their tireless efforts. I want 
also to thank in particular the Registry for the important 
achievements  registered  through  its  organization  and 
oversight  of  the  preparation  of  records  for  archiving 
and handover to the Mechanism. In that regard, I would 
like to inform the Assembly that last month the ICTR 
2/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
handed over to the Mechanism two temporary archives 
facilities,  which  represent  another  important  step  in 
the archives- and records-transfer process. I especially 
thank all of the archives staff from the Tribunals and 
the  Mechanism  and  commend  them  for  the  tireless 
work they have carried out with distinction.
to  national 
I  must  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend 
the  ICTR  and  Mechanism  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Hassan 
Bubacar Jallow, for the tremendous efforts his Office 
has  made  to  complete  the  ongoing  appeals,  monitor 
the  cases  referred 
jurisdictions  and 
facilitate  the  transfer  of  cases,  archives  and  records 
to  the  Mechanism.  The  tracking,  arrest  and  trial  of 
the  three  top-level  fugitives  —  Félicien  Kabuga, 
Protais  Mpiranya  and  Augustin  Bizimana  —  remain 
at the core of the Prosecutor’s work in his role in the 
Mechanism, along with his continued assistance to the 
Rwandan authorities in locating and apprehending the 
six fugitives whose cases have been referred to Rwanda 
for trial.
in 
the  preparation  of 
The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has  also  made 
substantial  progress 
the 
Prosecution’s  evidentiary  holding  and  records  for 
archiving  pending  transfer  to  the  Mechanism  during 
the reporting period. The transfer of the entirety of the 
archives  of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  is  expected 
to be finished upon the completion of all appeals and 
related litigation before the Tribunal. The Office of the 
Prosecutor  has  also  been  exemplary  in  its  work  on  a 
number  of  projects  that  will  be  important  in  shaping 
the  legacy  of  the  Tribunal.  Finally,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate the Prosecutor on the special achievement 
award  that  the  Office  received  in  September  from 
the  International  Association  of  Prosecutors  for  the 
significant  and  important  work  that  the  Prosecution 
has  done  in  its  fight  against  impunity  and  for  taking 
the initiative to establish a manual of best practices on 
the tracking and arrest of fugitives from international 
criminal  justice  that  can  be  used  by  national  and 
international prosecutors around the world.
I  now  return  to  an  important  issue  that  the  ICTR 
has continued to raise in both the General Assembly and 
the Security Council for some years: that of relocating 
acquitted persons and those released after serving their 
sentences  in  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania.  The 
Registrar  and  I  continue  to  work  closely,  engaging  in 
extensive  diplomatic  efforts  towards  relocation,  but 
this issue continues to be a daunting challenge, as there 
have  thus  far  been  almost  no  positive  developments, 
even  following  recent  Security  Council  resolutions 
2029 (2011), 2054 (2012) and 2080 (2012), in which the 
Council reiterates its call to Member States that are in a 
position to do so to cooperate with the Tribunal.
Towards  that  end,  on  30  May  2013,  the  Tribunal 
submitted a strategic plan for the relocation of acquitted 
and released persons to the Security Council Informal 
Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals.  The  plan 
provides for an overall framework, in which sustainable 
efforts will be deployed by the Tribunal, and for strategic 
options  to  be  implemented  on  an  ongoing  basis.  The 
Registrar  and  I  remain  committed  to  undertaking  all 
possible efforts to find a solution to this problem, and 
we  remain  deeply  concerned  about  the  consequences 
of failure. In that respect, we have both redoubled our 
efforts  in  the  past  months,  and  I  hereby  reiterate  the 
urgent  call  for  increased  cooperation  from  Member 
States with respect to the Tribunal’s efforts to relocate 
these persons.
The  year  2014  will  mark  the  passage  of  20  years 
since  the  genocide  in  Rwanda  and  the  subsequent 
creation  of  the  Tribunal  later  that  year.  As  we  near 
that important milestone, it seems like an appropriate 
moment to consider again the impact that international 
judicial institutions have had, not only on the evolution 
of  international  criminal  law  but  also  on  judicial 
progress  in  domestic  jurisdictions.  In  fact,  one  of  the 
more tangible impacts that the ICTR has had is evinced 
by the considerable steps taken by Rwanda to comply 
with  international  fair-trial  requirements  for  trials  of 
cases referred by the ICTR and national jurisdictions. 
Those  steps,  which  included  the  abolition  of  life 
imprisonment  in  isolation  with  respect  to  any  case 
transferred  from  another  jurisdiction  and  the  creation 
of a witness protection unit under the authority of the 
Rwandan  judiciary,  demonstrate  how  international 
judicial  institutions  act  as  a  guide  in  ever-increasing 
domestic  efforts  with  respect  to  international  crimes. 
Rwanda’s dedication to meeting international standards 
is  one  reason  that  it  stands  as  an  example,  which  is 
already beginning to be followed by others.
However,  prosecution  alone  cannot  maintain 
peace  or  achieve  reconciliation.  In  that  respect,  we 
must  also  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  outreach 
efforts,  including  training  programmes,  professional 
workshops,  visiting  professional  programmes  and 
partnerships  with  higher  learning  institutions,  that 
the  Tribunal  has  instituted  throughout  its  existence 
to  ensure  that  affected  communities,  along  with  the 
13-51141
3/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
international community, understand the ramifications 
of the genocide and the lessons we have learned in our 
battle against impunity.
ICTR  efforts  and  engaging 
The  legacy  that  will  be  left  behind  by  the  ICTR 
is  still  being  written.  The  ICTR  legacy  committee, 
in  coordinating 
in 
inter-Tribunal efforts, continues to work vigorously to 
preserve our records and ensure ease of access to them 
for  posterity.  In  that  respect,  the  legacy  committee  is 
currently  making  arrangements  to  establish  an  ICTR 
legacy  website,  which  will  provide  access  to  an  even 
larger  database  of  ICTR  judicial  decisions  and  case 
law as well as to the non-judicial legacy, including the 
speeches  and  papers  presented  by  Tribunal  officials 
over  the  years.  Furthermore,  the  legacy  committee  is 
in the process of planning events to commemorate the 
twentieth anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda and 
the  establishment  of  the  Tribunal,  to  which  we  hope 
Member States will lend their support.
It  remains  my  honour  to  address  the  Assembly. 
Once  more,  on  behalf  of  the  entire  Tribunal,  I  wish 
to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  support  members’ 
Governments  have  shown  over  the  past  19  years.  As 
we complete the transition to the Mechanism and move 
ever  closer  to  the  completion  of  our  mandate,  I  must 
once  more  call  upon  the  assistance  of  Member  States 
to find practical solutions to the problems that I have 
discussed here today.
I am humbled to be part of the rich legacy of the 
Tribunal, and I remain ever encouraged by the direction 
that international justice has taken in the two decades 
since the inception of the ad hoc Tribunals. I have full 
confidence that, through the efforts of the international 
community  and  with  the  support  of  Member  States, 
the  ICTR  commitment  to  the  sentiment  that  flagrant 
violations  of  international  criminal  and  humanitarian 
law  should  never  again  go  unpunished  will  continue 
to evolve in a meaningful way, leading to the eventual 
realization of our goal: an end to impunity.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Judge 
Theodor Meron, President of the International Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia.
the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
of 
for 
Criminal  Tribunals.  I  congratulate  you  very  warmly, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  country’s  assumption  of  the 
presidency and wish you the very best as you assume 
the responsibilities that come with that role.
Today, I am pleased to present both the twentieth 
annual report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia (A/68/255) and the first annual 
report  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals (A/68/219), which is the successor 
institution to both the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  Rwanda  and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  I  would  like  to 
underscore  my  gratitude  to  all  the  stakeholders  who 
have  assisted  with  the  work  of  the  ICTY  and  the 
Mechanism,  including  the  very  smooth  transition 
process.  That  includes,  of  course,  President  Joensen 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR), Prosecutor Brammertz of the ICTY, Prosecutor 
Jallow of the Mechanism and Registrar Hocking, who 
is the Registrar of both the ICTY and the Mechanism.
Allow  me  to  begin  with  a  brief  overview  of  the 
continued  work  of  the  ICTY  in  the  fulfilment  of  its 
completion strategy.
Since my most recent annual report to the Assembly 
(see A/67/PV.24), the Tribunal has continued its focus 
on  completing  proceedings  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
it  has  rendered  more  judgements  in  the  year  ending 
1  August  2013  than  in  almost  any  previous  reporting 
period.  More  specifically, 
the  Tribunal  rendered 
five  trial  judgements,  three  judgements  on  appeal,  a 
judgement on appeal from an acquittal pursuant to rule 
98  bis  of  the  rules  of  procedure  and  evidence  of  the 
tribunal and four judgements in contempt cases.
Currently, the ICTY has four cases at trial and seven 
cases pending on appeal from judgement. I note that the 
Appeal Judges of the ICTY are also Appeal Judges of 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  and 
in that capacity have an additional six cases presently 
on  appeal  from  judgement  before  them,  as  my  dear 
friend  and  colleague  President  Joensen  informed  the 
Assembly a few moments ago.
Judge  Meron  (International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 
appear  before  the  General  Assembly  —  and  to  do  so 
under the presidency of Antigua and Barbuda — in my 
dual capacity as President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  as  President 
With  respect  to  the  ongoing  ICTY  trials,  our 
current estimates foresee two trials, in the Karadžić and 
Hadžić cases, being completed in 2015 and one trial, in 
the Mladić case, concluding in mid-2016. In the Šešelj
case, which was previously expected in October 2013, 
the  defendant  filed  an  application  for  disqualification 
4/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
of one of the judges in his trial. A panel of judges that 
was  appointed  to  consider  the  application  upheld  that 
application by majority. Further decisions in that case 
are forthcoming, and I hope to provide more details in 
my November report to the Security Council.
Any  appeals  from  judgement  in  the  four  trials 
just  discussed  will  come  under  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals rather than of the ICTY, in accordance with 
Security Council resolution 1966 (2010).
Turning to the ICTY’s seven appeals, it is currently 
anticipated  that  appellate  work  on  all  but  one  case 
should be completed by early 2015. Appeal judgements 
in the Ðorđević case and in the multi-accused Šainović 
case are expected by the end of this year, and another 
four  appeal  judgements  are  expected  by  early  2015. 
The  one  remaining  appeals  case,  that  of  Prlić  et  alia, 
involves six accused and is not forecast to be completed 
until mid-2017.
Although the completion of the ICTY’s remaining 
judicial work and the ultimate closure of the Tribunal 
are  still  some  time  away,  the  Tribunal  continues 
to  take  steps  to  effect  the  institution’s  orderly  and 
efficient closure. Among other measures, the Tribunal 
has  developed  a  consolidated,  comprehensive  plan 
to  facilitate  the  completion  strategy  of  the  Tribunal 
and  the  transfer  of  relevant  responsibilities  to  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal 
Tribunals.  The  guiding  principle  is  that  as  judicial 
activity is completed, staff will be downsized, facilities 
will be released and physical assets disposed of. Those 
progressive steps will ensure that the Tribunal’s closure 
is effected as quickly as possible while not impacting its 
substantive responsibilities or its ability to complete its 
mandate. Of course, all those steps will be undertaken 
while  complying  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
due process and fairness.
Staff morale is inevitably affected in a downsizing 
institution,  and  the  Tribunal,  to  my  great  regret,  is 
no  exception.  I  recall  that  the  Tribunal’s  modest  past 
proposals for a retention bonus in the form of a small 
termination indemnity have not met with success. That 
fact, together with the Tribunal’s ongoing downsizing 
and  the  knowledge  that  many  of  our  talented  staff 
members may not all be able to find comparable jobs 
upon leaving the Tribunal, make maintaining morale all 
the more difficult.
Despite those challenges, the other principals of the 
Tribunal and I are focused on using all the tools at our 
disposal to sustain the morale of the Tribunal’s staff. I 
remain, as ever, tremendously grateful that despite the 
many challenges they face, staff members continue to 
carry out their responsibilities with dedication and care, 
making it possible for the ICTY to fulfil the mandate 
with which it has been entrusted.
I  would  now  like  to  turn  to  the  progress  of  the 
for  Criminal 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
Tribunals, often referred to simply as the Mechanism.
The Mechanism began its work with the opening of 
the Arusha branch on 1 July 2012, and reached another 
milestone  with  the  opening  of  The  Hague  branch  on 
1 July 2013. The Mechanism now has a presence on two 
continents, including offices in the United Republic of 
Tanzania and the Netherlands and a satellite office in 
the Republic of Rwanda. Our small core group of staff 
includes nationals of more than 30 countries.
With  regard  to  judicial  work,  the  Mechanism  is 
seized  of  one  appeal  from  an  ICTR  trial  judgement 
in  the  Ngirabatware  case.  As  already  indicated,  the 
Mechanism  will  hear  any  appeals  that  may  be  filed 
in the four cases still in their trial phase at the ICTY. 
Additional judicial matters — including requests to vary 
the  protective  measures  granted  to  certain  witnesses, 
proceedings  related  to  alleged  contempt  of  court  and 
applications for early release — have also come before 
the  Mechanism  and  have  been  addressed.  I  also  note 
that  the  Mechanism  would  conduct  the  trials  of  three 
of the nine individuals who have been indicted by the 
ICTR but who, to this day, have not been arrested.
It  was  thanks  to  the  dedication  and  cooperation 
of  Member  States  that  the  ICTY  was  able  to  account 
for all 161 of those individuals whom it indicted — an 
extraordinary achievement. It is vital for the cause of 
international  justice  that  we  ensure  a  similar  result 
for  those  indicted  by  the  ICTR.  I  therefore  call  upon 
all  Member  States  to  take  steps  to  ensure  that  the 
remaining  fugitives  —  whether  they  are  among  the 
three to be tried by the Mechanism or are one of the six 
individuals whose cases have been referred to Rwanda 
for trial — are at last arrested and brought to trial.
In  addition,  in  accordance  with  the  transitional 
arrangements  set  out  in  annex  II  to  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010), the responsibility for a number 
of essential functions has transitioned from the ICTR 
and the ICTY to the Mechanism. Those functions range 
13-51141
5/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
from  ensuring  the  protection  and  support  of  victims 
and  witnesses  to  providing  assistance  to  national 
jurisdictions,  and  from  enforcing  the  sentences  of 
those convicted by the two Tribunals to managing the 
archives of both the ICTR and the ICTY.
Because all that has been accomplished would not have 
been  possible  without  the  continued  support  of  the 
States Members of the United Nations, that is, in a very 
real way, not just the legacy of the ICTY but the legacy 
of the international community as well.
In  carrying  out  those  and  other  functions,  and  in 
establishing itself as an institution more generally, the 
Mechanism  has  benefited  greatly  not  only  from  the 
dedication  and  efforts  of  its  own  staff,  but  also  from 
the talents and expertise of the many ICTR and ICTY 
colleagues  who,  whether  officially  double-hatted  or 
not, have taken on extra work and new responsibilities 
in  support  of  the  Mechanism.  I  am  tremendously 
appreciative of all that they have done and continue to 
do.
As  we  move  ahead  into  the  second  year  of  the 
Mechanism’s  operations,  my  colleagues  and  I  will 
continue  to  seek  to  ensure  that  the  Mechanism  can 
serve as a model for international criminal justice and 
for United Nations institutions generally, including by 
adopting  best  practices  from  both  the  ICTR  and  the 
ICTY and then building and improving upon them. At the 
same time, we remain ever mindful that the Mechanism 
was created to be a temporary institution and that our 
responsibilities  will  diminish  over  time.  Even  as  we 
establish our processes and systems and make decisions 
about our infrastructure and staffing, therefore, we are 
continually focused of how to accomplish our mandate 
most efficiently, while remaining as fair and effective 
as possible.
Before concluding, I wish to note that earlier this 
year  the  ICTY  marked  an  important  milestone:  the 
passage of 20 years since the Tribunal’s establishment 
by  Security  Council 
(1993),  on 
25  May  1993.  In  1993  few  were  sure  about  how  the 
Tribunal would take shape or what it would be able to 
accomplish. Today, I am very happy to report that the 
ideal embodied in resolution 827 (1993) — of the world 
in which accountability is the firm expectation, and not 
the exception — has become a reality.
resolution  827 
Even as the ICTY moves to complete its remaining 
work,  we  may  rest  assured  that  the  Tribunal  will 
leave  behind  it  a  world  transformed,  a  world  in 
which  —  thanks  to  the  new  Mechanism  and  to  the 
commitment  and  perseverance  of  members  of  the 
international  community  on  matters  of  international 
justice  —  expectations  of  principled  accountability 
for  those  who  stand  accused  of  atrocities  will  remain 
the norm, and the rule of law will continue to prevail. 
Ms.  Carayanides  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour 
today to speak on behalf of Canada, New Zealand and 
Australia (CANZ).
CANZ  reaffirms  our  strong  support  for 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and for the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
for 
May  2013  marked  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  establishment  of  the  ICTY,  while  the  ICTR  will 
reach that milestone next year. During that time, both 
Tribunals have played a major role in the development 
of international criminal justice and have made a lasting 
contribution  to  the  international  community’s  goal  of 
holding  perpetrators  of  serious  international  crimes 
to  account.  The  Tribunals  have  achieved  that  both 
directly, through their jurisprudence, and through their 
significant and ongoing contributions to the building of 
national judicial capacities. Over that historic period, all 
161 persons indicted by the ICTY have been accounted 
for. The ICTR has delivered its final trial judgement in 
relation to all those indictees apprehended to date.
The Residual Mechanism opened its branch in The 
Hague  in  July,  following  the  opening  of  its  Arusha 
branch in July 2012. That ensures that key work relating 
to the trial of any captured fugitives, the enforcement 
of  sentences,  the  protection  of  witnesses  and  the 
maintenance  of  the  Tribunals’  archives  will  continue 
beyond the completion of the Tribunals’ mandates.
With 
those  significant  accomplishments,  both 
Tribunals  are  moving  closer  towards  the  completion 
of their mandates. However, they still have important 
work ahead of them.
The  trials  of  Goran  Hadžić,  Radovan  Karadžić 
and Ratko Mladić continue before the ICTY. The trial 
and appeal phases of those three very significant trials 
represent an enormous amount of work. We commend 
the  ICTY  on  introducing  measures  to  ensure  that  its 
processes are as efficient as possible, while respecting 
in full the rights of the defendants.
The ICTR efforts continue on the pressing matter 
of  relocating  acquitted  and  released  persons.  We 
6/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
commend the efforts that the ICTR has made to relocate 
those  individuals,  including  the  development  of  a 
strategic plan to address the issue, and we urge Member 
States  to  provide  the  necessary  support  to  the  ICTR 
in that regard. We also urge Member States to ensure 
that  the  nine  fugitives  indicted  by  the  ICTR  for  their 
involvement in the 1994 genocide are apprehended and 
brought to justice as soon as possible.
The  ongoing  support  and  cooperation  of  the 
international  community  for  both  Tribunals  and  the 
Residual  Mechanism  are  essential  to  ensuring  that 
they  are  able  to  meet  those  challenges.  We  therefore 
call on Member States to ensure that the Tribunals and 
the  Residual  Mechanism  are  adequately  staffed  and 
resourced  in  order  to  achieve  the  goals  set  out  in  the 
Security Council resolutions that established them and, 
very important, to ensure their lasting legacies.
For our part, Australia, New Zealand and Canada 
will  continue  to  offer  full  support  and  cooperation 
to  the  Tribunals  and  the  Residual  Mechanism  to 
give  practical  effect  to  our  collective  commitment  to 
international criminal justice. In that regard, we thank 
Judge  Joensen  and  Judge  Meron  for  their  important 
briefings this morning and for their continued service 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Tribunals’  goals.  We  are 
indebted to them both.
Mrs. Mǿrch Smith (Norway): I have the honour to 
make this statement on behalf of the Nordic countries, 
namely,  Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Sweden  and  my 
own country, Norway.
After almost 20 years of effective operation as ad 
hoc  international  criminal  tribunals,  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR)  are  now  in  the  process  of  completing  their 
tasks. At the ICTY, all 161 indicted persons have been 
accounted  for.  The  ICTY  has  concluded  proceedings 
against  136  of  the  161  persons  indicted,  and  there 
are  no  outstanding  indictments  for  violations  of  core 
statutory  crimes.  Similarly,  the  ICTR  has  completed 
all  cases  at  the  trial  level  and  has  made  significant 
progress at the appeals level. Several cases have been 
referred for proceedings in Rwanda. The International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals has been 
established to finalize the remaining cases and judicial 
tasks of both Tribunals, with branches in Arusha and 
The Hague, respectively.
Those  are  significant  achievements  that  move 
the  ad  hoc  Tribunals  closer  to  their  ultimate  goal  of 
mandate completion. We commend both Tribunals for 
having made substantial efforts in successfully dealing 
with their caseloads despite various challenges. Trials 
and  proceedings  have  been  conducted  under  high 
standards  of  rule  of  law,  and  valuable  contributions 
to the development of international criminal law have 
been  made.  It  is  important  to  recall,  however,  that 
both Tribunals are still functioning and are in need of 
continued support from the international community.
The remaining cases at the ICTY entail a substantial 
workload for the Tribunal’s staff. Despite resolutions by 
the Security Council and the General Assembly on the 
issue of staff retention at the Tribunal, staff shortages 
remain  a  serious  challenge,  and  that  is  affecting  the 
pace of the Tribunal’s continuing trials and appeals. We 
would also like to point to the ongoing work of ICTY 
investigators  in  locating  mass  graves  in  the  region. 
Those efforts are crucial to ensure closure for survivors 
and  families  of  victims  and  proper  documentation  of 
the crimes committed.
Under the framework of the ICTR, three fugitives 
remain  to  be  arrested  and  brought  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism. We strongly urge all States, and those of 
the Great Lakes region in particular, to intensify their 
efforts to ensure the arrest of the remaining fugitives.
The  Nordic  countries  wish  to  emphasize  the 
important task of ensuring the successful transition of 
cases to national jurisdictions, both from the ICTY to 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Croatia, and from 
the ICTY to Rwanda. Such referrals help to strengthen 
the  capacity  of 
to  prosecute 
violations of international law and to reinforce the rule 
of law in the States concerned. It is also important to 
give  more  attention  to  ensuring  that  victims  receive 
effective reparation for their suffering.
jurisdictions 
those 
Having  a  firm  belief  in  the  importance  of  justice 
for  ensuring  lasting  peace,  we  would  like  underline 
the  need  for  continued  capacity-building  and  support 
to national jurisdictions both in the former Yugoslavia 
and in Rwanda.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Marhic (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
13-51141
7/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro 
and  Iceland;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Armenia,  align  themselves 
with this statement.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
reaffirm their unwavering support for the work of the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  We  support  the  process  of  the 
establishment of the International Residual Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals for both Tribunals, pursuant to 
Security  Council  resolution  1966  (2010),  in  order  to 
preserve their important achievements and legacy. We 
therefore welcome the launch, on 1 July, of the ICTY 
branch  of  the  Residual  Mechanism  and  acknowledge 
the successful first year of functioning of the Arusha 
branch.
We praise both Tribunals as well as both branches 
of the Mechanism for their achievements and invaluable 
contributions  to  our  shared  goal  of  ending  impunity 
for serious international crimes. The European Union 
and its member States thank both President Meron and 
President Joensen for their reports and commend them 
for their efforts in completing the work of the Tribunals. 
We also pay special tribute to the work of all the staff of 
the Tribunals and the Mechanism. It is important that 
both  Tribunals  get  the  support  necessary  to  complete 
their mandates.
The Tribunals have played a key role in strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  and  promoting  long-term  stability 
and  reconciliation.  Since  their  establishment,  both 
Tribunals  have  embodied  the  need  to  fight  impunity, 
and the refusal by the international community to let the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern  escape  justice.  They  were  forerunners  in 
creating  jurisprudence  that  is  a  source  of  inspiration 
for all national and international jurisdictions that are 
addressing and will have to address such crimes.
to 
the 
Both  Tribunals  have  begun 
to  hand  over 
responsibilities 
International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  We  recall  in  that 
regard the importance of a smooth transition process in 
order for both branches of the Mechanism to carry on 
and protect the work of both Tribunals.
We note the challenges faced by both Tribunals in 
relation  to  staff  retention  and  the  loss  of  experienced 
staff  members.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the  efforts 
of the inter-State assistance mechanism, Justice Rapid 
Response, in ensuring that the very valuable expertise 
and  experience  in  international  criminal  justice  of 
current  and  former  employees  of  both  Tribunals 
remains at the disposal of all States and international 
courts and tribunals.
In parallel, we encourage the Tribunals to continue 
to effectively prioritize their resources, while ensuring 
that remaining trials and appeals remain on track.
We  recall  that  States’  responsibility  to  cooperate 
with the Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism remains 
crucial  for  their  ability  to  complete  their  mandate,  in 
particular  in  bringing  those  indicted  to  justice.  With 
respect to the ICTR, we recall that despite continuing 
appeals by the international community, nine accused 
individuals  remain  at  large.  The  failure  to  arrest 
those  indictees  is  a  matter  of  grave  concern.  The  EU 
and its member States note with appreciation that the 
Prosecutor has intensified efforts to track the three most 
wanted fugitives and, in that regard, has sought support 
from  regional  organizations  in  Eastern  and  Southern 
Africa.  We  also  note  that  support  from  INTERPOL, 
Member  States  and  other  international  organizations 
has assisted in narrowing the search for those fugitives. 
We  praise  the  United  States  War  Crimes  Rewards 
Programme, which constitutes a useful instrument for 
the  apprehension  of  indicted  persons.  We  call  upon 
all  States  concerned  to  intensify  their  efforts  and 
cooperation with the Tribunal and the Arusha branch of 
the Residual Mechanism in order to achieve the arrest 
and surrender of all remaining fugitives.
We  note  that  in  the  ICTY  report  (A/68/270),  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  acknowledges  the  assistance 
it received from the European Union. We will continue 
to  support  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor.  We  also  note 
that the States concerned remain committed to meeting 
their obligations towards justice, in particular towards 
the  ICTY  and  The  Hague  branch  of  the  Residual 
Mechanism.
is  essential  for 
Completing  the  process  of  rendering  justice  for 
crimes  committed  during  the  conflicts  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia 
lasting  reconciliation. 
Full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  therefore  remains  an 
essential condition for the Stabilization and Association 
Process  in  the  Western  Balkans  and  is  an  essential 
condition for membership of the EU. Croatia’s accession 
to the EU is an example in that regard.
8/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
The  EU  and  its  member  States  also  call  upon  the 
Governments concerned to pursue with greater vigour 
domestic investigation and prosecution of war crimes. 
We welcome the signing of the Protocol on Cooperation 
in Prosecution of Perpetrators of War Crimes, Crimes 
against  Humanity  and  Genocide  between  the  States 
concerned in 2013. However, many challenges remain 
in coordinating the activities of judicial institutions in 
parts  of  the  region.  We  therefore  continue  to  urge  all 
States  to  cooperate  with  both  Tribunals  and  branches 
of  the  Residual  Mechanism,  in  full  adherence  to 
their  obligations  under  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.
In  recognition  of  strengthened  domestic  capacity, 
the Security Council, in its resolutions 1503 (2003) and 
1534  (2004),  calls  on  the  ICTY  and  ICTR  to  transfer 
all lower- and mid-level accused to competent national 
jurisdictions for trial by domestic courts.
We  welcome  the  ongoing  efforts  of  Rwanda,  in 
cooperation  with  international  donors,  to  strengthen 
the Rwandan legal system and its ability to adjudicate 
cases from the ICTR. We confirm our commitment to 
support activities aimed at strengthening the capacity 
of  the  Rwandan  judiciary.  We  note  with  appreciation 
that the Prosecutor of the ICTR continues to focus on 
monitoring the referral of cases to national jurisdictions 
in  order  to  facilitate  indictment,  trial  and  judgement 
before the Rwandan High Court.
We  welcome 
the  work  of 
the  Tribunals  on 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  national  authorities  to 
handle the remaining war crime cases effectively. We 
fully  support  the  training  and  information  exchanges 
as  well  as  access  to  publicly  available  investigating 
material  and  evidence  from  the  Tribunals.  That  is 
important for the Tribunal’s legacy and for the domestic 
capacity to adjudicate war crimes. In its Stabilization 
and Association Process for the Western Balkans, the 
EU is increasingly underlining the importance of local 
ownership for handling war-crime cases in line with the 
need to fight impunity.
Finally, we welcome the steps taken by the Tribunals 
in  terms  of  capacity-building,  the  dissemination  of 
information  and  legacy.  We  recall  the  importance  of 
the  preservation  of  archives  in  the  transition  process 
to  the  Mechanism,  as  they  remain  an  integral  part  of 
the  history  and  the  memory  of  both  Rwanda  and  the 
countries of the former Yugoslavia.
We  will  continue  to  support  both  the  principle 
and  system  of  international  criminal  justice  and  its 
essential role in the reconciliation process, and we call 
on all States to do the same. It is indeed important that 
the knowledge gained and lessons learned in the fight 
against impunity are not forgotten.
Mr.  Ahamed  (India):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating you, Sir, on assuming the presidency of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  and 
by  reiterating  my  assurance  of  the  full  cooperation 
and support of the Indian delegation in the Assembly’s 
proceedings.
(ICTR), 
the 
for  Rwanda 
I thank the Presidents of the International Criminal 
Tribunal 
International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals  for  their  reports  (A/68/270,  A/68/255  and 
A/68/219) and put on record our appreciation for their 
work. We commend the efforts of the two Prosecutors 
in undertaking outreach initiatives, including training, 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  national 
systems to handle the referred cases effectively.
We  are  glad  to  note  that  both  branches  of  the 
Mechanism  are  now  operational,  with  that  of  the 
ICTR  in  Arusha  commencing  its  functions  on  1  July 
2012 and that of the ICTY in The Hague launched on 
1 July 2013. That should ensure a smooth transition in 
the  Tribunals’  pending  work  to  the  Mechanism.  The 
Security Council’s establishment of the Mechanism, on 
22 December 2010, through resolution 1966 (2010), was 
a key step in the two Tribunals’ completion strategies, 
as  the  Mechanism  is  mandated  to  perform  a  number 
of  essential  functions  previously  carried  out  by  the 
Tribunals,  including  securing  the  arrest,  transfer  and 
prosecution of the fugitives still at large.
It  is  worth  mentioning  that  in  the  past  year  the 
Arusha branch of the Mechanism conducted a number of 
judicial proceedings and performed functions ranging 
from protecting witnesses to responding to requests for 
assistance from national jurisdictions. We are confident 
that the Mechanism will successfully build on the work 
of its predecessors in accordance with its mandate, and 
thus complete its pending judicial work in an efficient 
and  timely  manner,  without  compromising  the  right 
of  any  to  a  fair  trial.  The  efforts  to  relocate  persons 
acquitted  by  the  Tribunals  and  those  convicted  who 
have  completed  their  sentences  and  been  released  are 
13-51141
9/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
significant  in  humanitarian  terms  and  with  regard  to 
reconciliation and should be accorded priority.
The aim of the international community in setting 
up  international  criminal  courts  and  tribunals  was  to 
punish  the  guilty  and  end  impunity.  However,  trials 
through  such  courts  do  not  always  have  the  desired 
impact on the affected communities in terms of healing 
and reconciliation. When such trials are conducted by 
foreign  judicial  systems  or  tribunals,  with  little  or  no 
connection  to  the  perpetrators,  victims  or  offences, 
they are invariably decoupled from the political, social 
and  economic  context  of  the  affected  country  and  its 
people.
While the Tribunals have played an important role 
in  promoting  accountability  and  ending  impunity,  it 
remains crucial to strengthen national judicial systems 
so  that  they  may  prosecute  serious  crimes,  since 
States have the primary responsibility for prosecuting 
such  crimes  committed  on  their  territory  or  by  their 
nationals.  Therefore,  creating  effective  national  legal 
and judicial institutions that uphold the rule of law is 
essential,  and  it  is  imperative  that  the  international 
community  continue  to  promote  the  strengthening 
of  national  criminal  justice  systems  by  building  the 
capacities  of  national  investigative,  prosecutorial  and 
judicial  agencies.  In  that  regard,  the  ICTR’s  referral 
of  six  cases  to  the  Rwandan  authorities  for  trial  is 
significant.
International  criminal 
justice  has  also  been 
criticized  for  its  selectivity.  In  order  to  ensure  the 
credibility of the system, selective and discriminatory 
approaches should be shunned and the role of political 
organizations  minimized  for  consistent  application  of 
the law.
Ms. Čolaković (Bosnia and Herzegovina): We would 
like to thank the Secretary-General for transmitting the 
twentieth  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) (A/68/255) 
and  the  eighteenth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  (A/68/270)  to 
the Security Council and to the General Assembly. We 
would also like to thank the Tribunal staff for all their 
efforts  and  commitment  to  successfully  completing 
their mandates.
The  establishment  of  an  ad  hoc  criminal  tribunal 
for  the  former  Yugoslavia  as  a  legal  framework  for 
ensuring accountability and ending a tragic period for 
those  living  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  sent  a  clear 
message  that  the  crimes  committed  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia  should  be  punished  consistently  and 
without exceptions. The same can be said of the ICTR. 
The latest annual reports show that the Tribunals have 
remained  focused  on  the  completion  of  all  trials  and 
appeals.
We  commend 
the  valuable  assistance  and 
coordination of the Secretariat’s Office of Legal Affairs 
and the Security Council’s Informal Working Group on 
International Tribunals in ensuring the smooth transition 
of the Tribunal’s functions to the International Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  We  welcome  the 
fact  that  various  measures  have  been  taken  to  ensure 
that  the  Tribunal  operates  as  efficiently  as  possible 
while  preserving  a  high  level  of  procedural  fairness. 
We also acknowledge that significant efforts have been 
made to coordinate activities with the Security Council 
so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Tribunal  is  assigned  its  full 
complement of judges, in order to address any potential 
delays  caused  by  the  Appeals  Chamber’s  increased 
workload.
We should underline that Bosnia and Herzegovina’s 
authorities continue to respond promptly and adequately 
to most of the requests of the Office of the Prosecutor 
for  documents,  as  well  as  for  access  to  Government 
archives.  Our  authorities  also  continue  to  provide 
valuable assistance in witness-protection matters and in 
facilitating witnesses’ appearances before the Tribunal.
We would like to reiterate that since the end of the 
war, Bosnia and Herzegovina has cooperated constantly 
and constructively with the prosecution in The Hague 
and the Tribunal. Those cooperation efforts have been 
positively assessed in the periodic reports and are noted 
in the current annual report. We have taken note of all 
the  other  concerns  raised  by  the  Prosecutor  and  are 
fully aware that a lot remains to be done.
I  wish  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina bears the greatest burden of prosecutions 
for  war  crimes.  However,  since  2005,  when  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina’s  court  became  fully  operational, 
measurable progress has been made in prosecuting war 
crimes, and more than 200 cases have been successfully 
concluded.  Nevertheless,  according  to  the  relevant 
statistics of domestic and international stakeholders, a 
large  number  of  war  crimes  remain  to  be  prosecuted 
in  the  domestic  courts.  We  are  also  aware  of  the  fact 
that  the  implementation  of  our  national  war  crimes 
strategy needs an improved approach if it is to meet the 
deadlines the strategy has set. Stronger efforts must be 
10/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
made to effectively increase the pace of the overall case 
proceedings at both the State and entity levels.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
As the Tribunals steadily head towards their closure, 
the duty of continuing the fight against impunity and 
enhancing the reach of justice remains with the credible 
national  prosecutors.  To  that  end,  our  common  goal 
remains the investigation and prosecution of all crimes 
committed  and  the  appropriate  punishment  of  the 
perpetrators. Regional cooperation plays an important 
role  in  that  regard.  We  are  therefore  certain  that  the 
protocol on the exchange of evidence and information 
on war crimes, signed between the prosecutors’ offices 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Serbia  and  Croatia,  is 
serving as an impetus in strengthening communication 
and  further  enhancing  coordination.  We  remain 
dedicated 
intensifying 
regional cooperation, considering that it is in the joint 
interests of the countries of the region as well.
to  further  promoting  and 
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  would  first  like  to  congratulate  the 
President of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  Mr.  Theodor  Meron,  on 
his re-election to the post. We would like to hope that 
all the efforts expended on the elections will not be in 
vain, and that the ICTY, under Mr. Meron’s leadership, 
will still be able to reach its final closure with results 
acceptable to all States.
The ICTY’s speedy closure, as we understand it, will 
be facilitated by the forthcoming election of a sixteenth 
judge to be assigned to the Appeals Chamber of the two 
Tribunals, a process that was launched at Mr. Meron’s 
request.  The  election  has  unexpectedly  excited 
heightened interest among States. So many candidates 
have been proposed that there would be problems listing 
them  all  on  the  ballot.  Fortunately,  after  the  news  of 
Mr. Meron’s successful re-election reached New York, 
the objections to our compromise version — which had 
not  been  immediately  supported —  for  presenting  all 
six candidates to the Assembly were removed. We await 
the results of the voting in the General Assembly with 
interest.
to  the  Security  Council  (S/2013/308  and  S/2013/310), 
the  situation  in  the  Tribunals  has  not  significantly 
changed. The parameters for the ICTY’s timetable for 
the  completion  of  its  work,  established  by  Security 
Council  resolution  1966  (2010),  remain  the  same.  We 
regret  the  fact  that  in  this  situation,  the  leadership  of 
the  ICTY,  despite  opportunities,  essentially  rejected 
using a technical decision to enable it to refer the Prlić 
et al. case to the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals.
What  can  be  said  in  its  favour  is  that  the  ICTY’s 
situation  has  at  least  not  deteriorated  since  the  June 
report  to  the  Security  Council.  The  same  cannot  be 
said  of  the  Rwanda  Tribunal,  which,  despite  having 
the  necessary  resources,  confirmed  the  information 
in  the  report  about  delays  in  the  Butare  case  that 
exceed the limits laid down in resolution 1966 (2010). 
Unfortunately,  it  appears  that  we  will  not  be  able  to 
avoid  investigating  this  situation  within  the  Security 
Council.
At the same time, however, we should not neglect 
to  mention  the  positive  progress  made  in  the  work 
of  the  ICTY  regarding  its  handling  of  anti-Serbian 
accusations. We refer to the recent decisions in the case 
of Stanišić and Simatović in Trial Chamber I and in the 
case of Prosecutor v. Momčilo Perišić in the Appeals 
Chamber.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the 
significant role played by the States of the two regions 
involved, as well as other States, through their support 
for the Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism. In that 
connection, we commend the high level of cooperation 
shown  by  Serbia  with  the  ICTY  and  by  Rwanda  with 
the ICTR.
Mr. Pope (United States of America): The United 
States  wishes  to  thank  President  Joensen  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and  President  Meron  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  for  their 
reports.  They  have  provided  exemplary  leadership  in 
the  cause  of  international  justice,  and  we  salute  their 
long  and  distinguished  careers  as  jurists  and  global 
public servants.
We  thank  the  leaders  of  the  ICTY  and  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
for  their  presentation  of  the  annual  reports  on  their 
activities  (A/68/255  and  A/68/270).  On  the  whole, 
regarding the information presented in the June reports 
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
creation  of  the  ICTY.  As  we  all  recall,  that  Tribunal 
and,  subsequently,  the  ICTR,  were  set  up  in  response 
to the horrors committed in Rwanda and Yugoslavia in 
the 1990s, when the slaughter of hundreds of thousands 
13-51141
11/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
led  to  a  wave  of  international  revulsion  and  cries  for 
justice. The ICTR and ICTY were founded on the idea 
that  those  responsible  for  mass  atrocities,  no  matter 
what  their  rank  or  official  position,  must  be  brought 
to  justice.  Once  they  were  fully  up  and  running,  the 
Tribunals  began  thoroughly  addressing  serious  issues 
of international justice.
To  date,  the  two  courts  have  tried  more  than  200 
defendants  accused  of  heinous  crimes,  including  top 
military  and  political  leaders.  The  Tribunals  have 
operated on the principles of fairness, impartiality and 
independence. They have also built up a robust body of 
international humanitarian law.
With the historic work of the Tribunals now nearing 
completion,  the  United  States  heartily  commends 
the  efforts  of  the  Presidents  of  both  bodies  to  enact 
cost-saving  managerial  and  administrative  measures 
and  to  transfer  the  Tribunals’  remaining  functions  to 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals.  At  the  same  time,  we  recognize  that  the 
exact  closure  dates  will  depend  on  the  completion  of 
ongoing and soon-to-begin trials and appeals.
Turning  to  the  ICTY,  we  note  that  the  Tribunal 
is  continuing  to  focus  on  the  completion  of  all  trials 
and  appeals,  having  rendered  13  trial,  appellate  and 
contempt  judgements  between  August  2012  and  July 
2013.  We  are  pleased  that  The  Hague  branch  of  the 
Mechanism  began  operating  in  July.  We  also  salute 
the  continuing  work  of  the  ICTY  to  build  capacity 
among  judges,  prosecutors  and  defence  counsels  in 
the former Yugoslavia. The United States urges all the 
Governments in the region to continue to work towards 
reconciliation, while avoiding statements that inflame 
tensions, and to continue to bring accused war criminals 
to justice in local courts.
With regard to the ICTR, we note with satisfaction 
that the Tribunal has wrapped up its workload of trials 
and  is  continuing  to  complete  appeals,  hopefully  by 
2015. The Mechanism in Arusha opened in 2012 and is 
operating  smoothly.  The  United  States  urges  regional 
Governments to work with the Tribunal on the relocation 
of  several  persons  who  have  served  their  sentences 
but  are  unable  to  return  to  Rwanda.  We  call  upon  all 
States to cooperate with the ICTR in apprehending all 
remaining  fugitives  and  bringing  those  accused  mass 
murderers to trial.
The United States remains committed to working 
international 
the  United  Nations  and 
with 
the 
community  to  help  protect  populations  from  mass 
atrocities,  through  tribunals  and  all  other  institutions 
and initiatives at our disposal.
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, Judge Meron, and 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda,  Judge  Joensen,  for  their  comprehensive 
briefings.  Their  briefings,  along  with  the  annual 
reports  of  the  Tribunals  before  us  (A/68/270  and 
A/68/255),  reflect  the  achievements  and  tenacious 
efforts  undertaken  by  both  Tribunals  to  successfully 
complete their mandates.
I would first of all like to take this opportunity to 
express our firm support for the International Tribunals, 
as well as for the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals. We urge Member States to maintain 
their  support  for  all  three  institutions.  The  Tribunals 
deserve a positive assessment on several counts.
First,  the  Tribunals  have  fulfilled  a  dissuasive 
function  by  identifying  and  punishing  those  guilty  of 
the gravest crimes. But they have also had preventive 
function,  inasmuch  as  the  possibility  of  being  tried 
served  to  discourage  others  from  committing  new 
crimes.
Secondly, the Tribunals have served an emblematic 
function  by  reflecting  a  decisive  step  forward  in  the 
commitment of the international community to ensure 
respect  for  international  humanitarian  law,  as  by 
establishing the fact that certain crimes are so serious 
that they constitute an offence against humanity itself 
and should not go unpunished.
Thirdly, the Tribunals were the principal inspiration 
for  the  establishment,  in  1998,  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, which has changed the parameters in 
the  search  for  peace  based  on  the  understanding  that 
enduring peace requires justice. The Security Council 
has also contributed to promoting accountability, peace 
and  justice  by  addressing  other  situations  through 
tribunals  assisted  by  the  United  Nations,  such  as  the 
Special Tribunal for Lebanon and the Special Court for 
Sierra Leone.
Fourthly,  the  fact  that  justice  has  been  delivered 
by  an  independent  institution  has  contributed  to  the 
identification and punishment of the guilty and to the 
clarification of the historical truth by exposing evidence 
of the crimes committed. Knowledge of the facts and 
12/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
overcoming the sense of impunity are necessary bases 
for possible reconciliation.
Mechanism.  We  note  the  progress  with  regard  to  the 
Mechanism, as noted in document A/68/219.
In that spirit, this year we celebrate the twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  827  (1993),  adopted  unanimously,  which 
established  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia.  Twenty  years  after  the  establishment 
of  that  Tribunal,  we  acknowledge  its  considerable 
accomplishments 
developing 
international  jurisprudence,  in  obtaining  justice  for 
victims,  in  capturing  all  fugitives  and  in  bringing  to 
justice  those  primarily  responsible  for  the  gravest 
violations  of  human  rights,  irrespective  of  their  rank. 
The Tribunal has contributed to strengthening national 
systems by working closely with local authorities.
progress 
and 
in 
With respect to the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda, we welcome the fact that it has completed 
all its legal work and met all its deadlines for appeals, 
and that it has proceeded with the transfer of cases to 
Rwanda. It is of fundamental importance to assist the 
tribunals in finishing their work within the stipulated 
deadlines.  We  listened  attentively  to  the  concerns 
expressed  by  the  Presidents  of  both  Tribunals  with 
respect to their ability to keep up the pace of their work 
while also meeting the deadlines set for its conclusion. 
The judges expressed the view that the lack of personnel 
and  the  loss  of  highly  efficient  members  of  their 
staffs  had  affected  trials  and  appeals.  We  share  their 
concerns,  especially  with  respect  to  the  need  to  have 
adequate, experienced staff. The judges also raised the 
issue  of  relocating  those  who  have  been  absolved  of 
their crimes as well as those who have already served 
their sentences. Some of them have been living in safe 
houses  in  Arusha  for  the  past  six  years.  That  is  an 
important  humanitarian  matter  that  deserves  careful 
consideration. For that reason, we support the strategic 
relocation  plan  that  was  recently  presented  to  the 
Informal  Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals, 
which we are honoured to chair. We urge Member States, 
in particular the members of the Security Council able 
to  do  so,  to  help  resolve  that  persistent  problem,  and 
we congratulate those that have already increased their 
cooperation with the Tribunal in that regard.
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress  achieved 
in  the  implementation  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  We  welcome  the 
fact that both Tribunals have worked together to ensure 
a  gradual,  effective  transition  towards  the  Residual 
In conclusion, we consider it important to preserve 
the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals.  As  the  work  of  the  two 
Tribunals  nears  completion,  there  is  no  doubt  —  and 
we  say  this  with  conviction  as  Chair  of  the  Informal 
Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals  of  the 
Security  Council  —  that  they  have  laid  a  solid 
foundation for international peace and justice through 
their development and implementation of international 
criminal law.
Mr. Starčević (Serbia): Let me begin by welcoming 
the President of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  Judge 
Theodor Meron, and the President of the International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, Judge Vagn Joensen. I 
thank them for their presentations of the annual reports 
of the two Tribunals (A/68/270 and A/68/255), as well 
as  for  the  presentation  of  the  first  annual  report  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals (A/68/219).
The  Republic 
the 
commencement  of  the  work  of  both  branches  of  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal 
Tribunals  and  commends  the  steps  taken  to  ensure  a 
smooth handover of functions. My country has placed 
continued  and  undivided  importance  on  cooperating 
with  the  ICTY  and  will  continue  to  do  so  also  with 
respect to the International Residual Mechanism.
Serbia  welcomes 
of 
Let  me  recall  that,  in  July  2011,  the  Republic 
of  Serbia  completed  its  cooperation  with  respect  to 
all  indictees  whose  transfer  had  been  requested  by 
the  Tribunal.  We  are  fully  committed  to  cooperation 
in  the  area  of  access  to  documentation,  archives  and 
witnesses.  My  country  has  refused  no  access  request 
by either the ICTY Prosecutor or defence teams, and all 
witnesses for whom waivers had been requested were 
granted  the  waivers,  which  made  it  possible  for  them 
to testify before the Tribunal. We note with satisfaction 
that the results of that cooperation have been assessed 
as positive.
At the same time, 399 persons have been tried so 
far in the courts of the Republic of Serbia for criminal 
offences committed against international humanitarian 
law. The Republic of Serbia therefore showed not only 
a firm commitment to complying with its international 
obligations, 
those 
the  punishment  of 
including 
13-51141
13/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
responsible for committing crimes, irrespective of their 
ethnicity, but also to establishing the whole truth about 
the  crimes  committed  during  the  armed  conflicts  in 
the  territory  of  the  former  Socialist  Federal  Republic 
of Yugoslavia, as we are convinced of the importance 
of  making  a  contribution  to  establishing  justice  and 
the process of regional reconciliation. In that respect, 
my country has shown its readiness to accept its own 
nationals, as well as other willing persons tried by the 
ICTY,  to  serve  their  sentences  in  Serbia.  We  are  also 
ready to provide full security guarantees regarding the 
locations in which those sentences would be served.
Let me recall that, on 20 January 2011, the Republic 
of  Serbia  signed  an  agreement  with  the  International 
Criminal  Court  on  the  enforcement  of  its  sentences. 
Under  the  agreement,  persons  sentenced  before  the 
Court for the commission of war crimes, crimes against 
humanity  and  genocide  may  serve  their  sentences  of 
imprisonment in the Republic of Serbia. It is stressed 
that  Serbia  is  the  first  country  in  Eastern  Europe  to 
sign such an agreement with the International Criminal 
Court.
Taking into account that the purpose of punishment 
also  includes  the  re-socialization  of  the  sentenced 
persons, my country is of the opinion that this goal can 
hardly be achieved if those persons serve their sentences 
in  countries  whose  languages  they  do  not  speak  or 
understand,  whereby  additional  impediments  to  their 
communication  with  the  environment  are  created. 
Also,  it  should  be  noted  that  most  of  the  countries  in 
which the sentences are served are geographically far 
from Serbia, which makes relatives’ visits much more 
difficult and sometimes impossible.
Since 2009, the Republic of Serbia has insisted on 
signing an agreement on the enforcement of sentences, 
and has actively endeavoured to have those sentenced 
by  the  Tribunal  serve  their  sentences  in  their  own 
countries. Regrettably, however, no breakthrough of any 
significance has been made in that regard. We consider 
that  the  main  reason  for  the  stalemate  is  the  fact  that 
the countries that emerged in the territory of the former 
Yugoslavia are not in a position to conclude agreements 
with  the  Tribunal  on  the  enforcement  of  sentences, 
although  the  President  of  ICTY  has  emphasized  on 
various  occasions  that  efforts  should  continue  to  be 
made to sign agreements in sufficient numbers to enable 
the mandate of the ICTY to be completed successfully. 
We believe that the recommendation of the Secretary-
General to the Security Council from May 1993 to the 
effect  that  the  enforcement  of  sentences  should  take 
place  outside  the  territory  of  the  former  Yugoslavia 
may have been valid two decades ago, but it has been 
evident for a long period that this is no longer the case.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  by  fulfilling  its 
obligations  with  respect  to  its  cooperation  with  the 
ICTY, as well as by trying war crimes in domestic courts 
with  the  highest  professional  standards,  the  Republic 
of  Serbia  has  made  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
Tribunal’s completion strategy, as well as to the process 
of  the  normalization  of  relations  among  the  countries 
of the region. All the results of my country’s years of 
cooperation  with  the  Tribunal  indicate  the  Republic 
of  Serbia’s  seriousness  and  its  readiness  to  accept 
international supervision of the serving of sentences and 
to provide firm guarantees that the sentenced persons 
will  not  be  paroled  without  the  requisite  decisions  of 
the  ICTY,  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  or 
some other organ or body of the United Nations to be 
charged with those issues in the future.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  At 
the  outset,  let  me  join  previous  speakers  in  thanking 
Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals,  and  Judge  Vagn  Joensen,  President  of  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). We 
note with gratitude the progress made in the activities 
of the ICTR and ICTY, and the first annual report of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals (A/68/219), during the period under review.
Tanzania reaffirms its unwavering support for the 
work of the ICTR and the ICTY. Both Tribunals have 
continued to make invaluable contributions to our shared 
goal of ending impunity for the most serious crimes of 
international  concern  and  have  been  instrumental  in 
bringing about a new age of accountability.
The  achievement  of  the  Tribunals  represent  a 
milestone in the development of international criminal 
jurisprudence.  We  therefore  pay  tribute  to  the  United 
Nations,  its  dedicated  staff  and  the  officials  of  the 
Tribunals, the Governments of Rwanda and the Former 
Yugoslavia and the international community as a whole.
We welcome the steady progress that the Tribunals 
have  made  during  the  reporting  period  towards  the 
completion  of  their  mandates.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  efforts  that  the  Tribunals  have  made  to  ensure  a 
smooth transition to the Residual Mechanism. We note 
14/16 
13-51141
14/10/2013 
A/68/PV.33
with appreciation that the trials of the ICTR have been 
concluded  in  an  efficient  and  timely  manner  without 
compromising  fair-trial  rights.  We  are  confident  that 
the ongoing appeals, including those under the Residual 
Mechanism, will enjoy similar rights and privileges.
Acquitted and released persons are still in the care 
of  the  ICTR  detention  facility  in  Tanzania  and  need 
to be relocated. We reiterate our call for urgent action 
to  find  host  countries  for  the  acquitted  persons  who 
remain  in  Arusha  under  the  Tribunal’s  protection,  as 
well  as  for  the  convicted  persons  who  are  still  in  the 
care  of  the  ICTR  detention  facility  in  Arusha.  We 
therefore encourage the Residual Mechanism to pursue, 
as  a  matter  of  priority,  agreements  with  additional 
Member  States  for  the  enforcement  of  sentences.  We 
call on States to continue to cooperate with and support 
both  Tribunals  as  well  as  the  Residual  Mechanism  in 
tracking  and  in  apprehending  the  remaining  fugitives 
so that they may finally be brought to justice.
My delegation is concerned that, as the Tribunals 
are  in  the  final  process  of  concluding  their  work, 
further  staff  attrition  continues  to  impede  the  timely 
achievement of the goals of their completion strategies. 
We support the call to the Secretariat and other relevant 
United  Nations  bodies  to  find  practical  solutions  to 
address the staffing situation and make it possible for 
the Tribunals to complete their work in a timely manner.
We  welcome  the  transfer  of  cases  to  Rwandan 
domestic  courts  for  prosecution.  We  note  with 
appreciation  that  the  Tribunals  have  continued  to 
further  develop  their  interaction  with  the  authorities 
of Rwanda and the States of the former Yugoslavia to 
encourage cooperation with the Tribunals and support 
domestic  war-crimes  prosecutions.  We  hope  to  see 
those efforts being further enhanced in support of the 
Mechanism’s mandate.
The  establishment  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals 
is  significant 
to  the  continued  protection  of  the  rights  of  victims, 
witnesses  and  persons  tried  by  the  ICTR  and  ICTY 
and to maintaining the legacy of the Tribunals. Allow 
me  to  commend  the  practical  arrangements  made  by 
the  Secretary-General  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010) in ensuring that the operations of 
the Mechanism begin. We are pleased that the transition 
from the ICTR to the Arusha branch of the Mechanism 
has  been  successful.  We  note  that  the  inauguration 
of  the  operationalization  of  the  ICTY  branch  of  the 
Residual  Mechanism  as  of  1  July.  We  welcome  those 
developments  and  see  them  as  an  important  step  in 
the next phase of the work and, indeed, legacy of the 
Tribunal.
Mr.  Estremé  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Argentina  is  particularly  appreciative  of  the  presence 
here  today  of  Judges  Meron  and  Joensen,  as  well 
as  of  the  presentation  of  the  reports  of  the  two 
Tribunals  (A/68/255  and  A/68/270)  and  on  the  work 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals (A/68/219).
My country is a member of the Security Council, 
and  as  such  we  have  had  an  opportunity  to  receive 
information in advance of those reports. We welcome 
the fact that the General Assembly is considering them 
today  because,  as  the  Council  meeting  on  12  June 
revealed  (see  S/PV.6977),  all  the  Members  of  the 
Organization are interested in the work of the Tribunals 
and  the  Mechanism.  Today’s  debate  is  of  particular 
relevance  because  this  year  marks  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
We  welcome  the  progress  reported  with  regard 
to  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia,  in  particular  that  during  the  reporting 
period judgements were rendered in the first instance 
in  five  cases,  four  appeals  and  three  cases  guilty 
of  contempt  of  court.  We  acknowledge  the  effort  it 
represents for the Tribunals to adjust their work to the 
deadlines and time frames being contemplated against 
the backdrop of staff reductions, including translators. 
With regard to the Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, 
we are pleased that the Security Council has agreed on a 
mechanism to elect an additional judge for the Appeals 
Chamber, as requested by the President of the Tribunal. 
Argentina  supported  that  request  in  the  Council  and 
we trust that, with the elections to be held shortly, the 
Tribunal will soon have an additional judge.
My country welcomes the information concerning 
the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the 
meeting of the deadlines and forecasts with regard to 
cases at the trial and appeals stages. We also welcome 
the  fact  that  transition  to  the  Residual  Mechanism 
continues in line with those time frames, including the 
delivery of the archives to the Mechanism by the end 
of 2014.
We  highlight  the  importance  of  the  appeal  in  the 
Ngirabatware case, which will be the first one resolved 
by the Mechanism. We also underscore the importance 
13-51141
15/16
A/68/PV.33 
14/10/2013
of arresting the three remaining fugitives and the fact 
that Security Council resolution 955 (1994) establishes 
the  obligation  of  all  States  to  fully  cooperate  with 
the  Tribunal.  Cooperation  with  the  Tribunal  is  also 
important  when  it  comes  to  relocating  the  seven 
people found not guilty and the three who have already 
completed their sentences. With regard to the Residual 
Mechanism,  we  acknowledge  the  progress  in  its 
becoming fully operational, as well as the fact that the 
Arusha branch has been operational since July 2012.
We also wish to highlight the opening of The Hague 
branch,  on  1  July.  That  branch  carries  functions  with 
respect  to  the  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  in 
the manner that the Arusha branch does in connection 
with  the  Rwanda  Tribunal.  Argentina  commends  the 
Mechanism’s work with regard to monitoring Tribunal 
cases sent to Rwandan national courts, as well as the 
attention  given  to  ensuring  continuity  between  the 
Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism,  which  is  necessary  to 
ensuring due process at this time of transition.
Security  Council  resolution  827  (1993)  marked  a 
milestone  because,  five  decades  after  the  Nuremberg 
trials,  it  expressed  the  premise  that  impunity  for 
serious crimes was unacceptable. It also reflected the 
commitment  of  the  Security  Council  —  and,  along 
with it, of the entire Organization — to accountability. 
Twenty years after the establishment of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,  the 
international  community  should  acknowledge 
the 
progress  made  in  combating  impunity  thanks  to 
both  Tribunals.  The  Tribunals  have  made  important 
normative  contributions 
the  development  of 
international  law.  They  have  blazed  a  trail  on  which 
there is no turning back — with regard to accountability 
as well when it comes to the fact that the international 
community  has  already  acknowledged  that  there  can 
be  no  lasting  peace  without  justice.  That  legacy  has 
been  definitively  shaped  by  the  establishment  of  the 
permanent International Criminal Court, which today 
to 
serves as the central point of the criminal justice for the 
entire international community.
It is not amnesty, be it de jure or de facto, that helps 
the  victims  of  heinous  crimes.  Rather  it  is  ensuring 
that  justice  is  rendered  by  impartial  and  independent 
courts. Argentina once again expresses its support for 
the  work  of  the  International  Crimininal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia.  On  this  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, we pay tribute 
to the Tribunal’s outstanding contribution to combating 
impunity.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on the agenda items before us.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to take note of the eighteenth annual report 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(A/68/270)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I also take it that it is 
the wish of the Assembly to take note of the twentieth 
annual report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia (A/68/255)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish  of  the  Assembly  to  take  note  of  the  first  annual 
report  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals (A/68/219)?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda items 73, 74 and 130?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.
16/16 
13-51141
