United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
27th plenary meeting
Friday, 4 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.27
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Picco (Monaco), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development
Agenda item 21 (continued)
Globalization and interdependence
(e)  International migration and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/190)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/162)
Mr. David (Romania): I would first like to thank 
the  President  for  convening  this  timely  meeting, 
particularly at this moment, when the attainment of the 
Millennium Development Goals is being evaluated, and 
the  process  for  establishing  a  post-2015  development 
agenda is ongoing.
Throughout  this  year.  I  have  participated  in 
numerous debates on the topic we are discussing today, 
in  consultations  organized  in  various  formats  under 
the auspices of the Transatlantic Council on Migration, 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  and 
the  United  Nations.  All  of  those  discussions  were 
designed  to  prepare  the  ground  for  this  meeting,  and 
we  have  therefore  been  sharing  lessons  learned  and 
best  practices,  as  well  as  discussing  how  to  focus  on 
the contributions that migration makes to inclusive and 
sustainable development.
Nonetheless,  it  is  this  meeting,  the  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
that provides the best framework for bringing together 
results  from  previous  efforts,  by  integrating  all  their 
into  a  comprehensive  assessment  and 
outcomes 
effective 
recommendations.  Romania,  obviously, 
shares the views expressed by the representative of the 
European Union on this issue, but I would also like to 
underline some aspects of particular significance to my 
country.
As I have said in other forums, I hope to highlight 
the  perspective  of  countries  of  origin  on  migration, 
based  on  Romania’s  first-hand  experience,  where  the 
economic  and  social  consequences  of  emigration  are 
concerned.  Romania  has  been  dealing  with  greatly 
increased  labour  mobility,  especially  in  the  last  10 
years,  within  the  European  Union.  The  high  level 
of  remittances  has  become  one  of  the  engines  for 
economic growth as families back home have benefited 
both economically and socially.
is  widely 
However,  while  the  support  provided  through 
remittances 
recognized  as  generating 
development  in  the  countries  of  origin,  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  the  need  to  recognize  the 
benefits  brought  by  migrants  to  the  communities  in 
the countries of destination. In doing so, I emphasize 
the  need  to  acknowledge  the  importance  of  the 
contributions  made  by  migrants 
to  development. 
Furthermore,  the  end  objective  should  be  to  increase 
the quality of the migration process through a balanced 
distribution of the benefits between countries of origin 
and  of  destination.  In  this  regard,  aid  coordination 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50003 (E)
*1350003*
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
is  a  structural  instrument  that  we  should  consider 
strengthening.
In my view, that is the way towards a comprehensive 
approach,  based  on  the  coherent  integration  of  the 
perspectives  of  all  stakeholders  and  on  the  mutual 
reinforcement  of  various  dimensions, 
such  as 
development and respect for human rights. Essentially, 
if this is to become a reality, there is an urgent need for 
close cooperation among all stakeholders: countries of 
origin and destination, local and central administrations 
and civil society organizations.
While  we  continue  our  debate  on  well-managed 
migration, I want to hereby reiterate one of my strongest 
beliefs  that  it  is  critically  necessary  for  actions  to 
ensure  the  respect  of  human  rights  and  freedoms  of 
migrants.  This  is  today  a  fundamental  task  for  our 
leadership,  which  is  faced  with  special  situations  and 
the  vulnerability  of  migrants  exposed  to  a  high  risk 
of  abuse.  In  addition,  we  need  to  address  setbacks 
regarding discrimination and xenophobic tendencies by 
encouraging tolerance, solidarity and intercultural and 
interreligious dialogue.
Once  these  basic  conditions  are  met,  we  have  to 
pursue actions rooted in principles of good governance 
by  promoting  the  integration  of  migrants  in  host 
countries as well as their return to and reintegration in 
their home countries. Consequently, a full spectrum of 
integration policies has to be developed in areas such as 
the social, economic and education spheres. Access to 
labour markets should be facilitated in full respect for 
international labour standards. Concurrently, proactive 
measures  have  to  be  adopted  to  prevent  migrants 
from  acquiring  illegal  status.  Last  but  not  least,  an 
action-oriented  approach  is  vital  for  any  progress  to 
be achieved. Political discourse has to move from pure 
rhetoric to concrete steps that have to be implemented 
in  order  to  facilitate  the  contribution  of  migration  to 
development.
In  closing  my  statement,  allow  me  to  express 
special appreciation for the work of the United Nations, 
the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development 
and  the  International  Organization  for  Migration.  I 
believe  that  more  importance  has  to  be  placed  on  the 
analytical  approach  through  the  Forum’s  actions,  and 
Romania  stands  ready  to  support  such  an  approach 
and all endeavours meant to harmonize migration and 
development.
International  Migration  and  Development 
Mr.  Erdene  (Mongolia)  (spoke  in  Mongolian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf 
of  the  Government  of  Mongolia  and  my  delegation, 
I  would  like  to  express  appreciation  to  the  United 
Nations for convening this second High-level Dialogue 
on 
to 
discuss  a  rights-based  approach  to  the  multifaceted 
issue  of  migration  in  the  context  of  the  development 
agenda.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the 
Mongolian  Government’s  strong  commitment  to  the 
implementation of the outcome of the first High-level 
Dialogue  of  the  General  Assembly,  held  in  2006,  and 
relevant conventions and agreements through national 
policies and measures.
The  Constitution  of  Mongolia,  newly  approved 
in  1992,  enshrined  human  rights  and  freedom  and 
provided opportunities for Mongolian citizens to freely 
choose a place to live and be provided with employment, 
education  and  health  care.  With  the  transition  to  a 
market-oriented  system  in  the  early  1990s,  human 
mobility  across  national  borders 
increased,  and 
Mongolia  became  a  country  of  origin,  destination 
and  transit.  According  to  the  2010  population  census 
estimates, over 4 per cent of the Mongolian population 
lives  in  other  countries.  Among  those  living  out  of 
the  country  for  longer  than  six  months,  the  majority, 
or  41.3  per  cent,  moved  for  employment  and  37  per 
cent  for  educational  purposes.  At  the  same  time,  the 
number  of  foreigners  coming  to  Mongolia  doubled  in 
2010 compared to 2000, with the prevailing majority of 
those employed in the mining sector.
The  main  push-and-pull  factors  of  migration  can 
be explained by the search for better living conditions, 
including  the  desire  to  earn  more  in  a  comparatively 
short  period  of  time  through  better-paid  employment, 
on  the  one  hand,  and  the  need  for  higher  skills  and 
qualifications  for  the  main  sectors  of  the  domestic 
labour  market,  on  the  other.  At  the  same  time,  while 
human mobility across national borders was increasing, 
the  absence  of  comprehensive  data  and  inadequate 
management and regulation impeded the opportunities 
for people to engage in formal and decent employment, 
making  them  more  vulnerable  to  human  trafficking, 
crime and violations of their rights.
Given  this  situation,  the  Mongolian  Government 
has been pursuing policies to ensure migrants’ rights, 
to  maximize  the  positive  impact  of  migration  on 
migrants and the country’s development, and to reduce 
the  negative  consequences  of  migration.  Priority 
2/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
attention is given to ensuring the conditions necessary 
for  Mongolian  nationals  to  engage  in  employment 
with  guaranteed  income  in  their  mother  country.  The 
Government  has  started  implementing  the  Beehive 
programme,  which  encourages  Mongolian  nationals 
living and working abroad to return to their motherland. 
Also,  we  have  undertaken  efforts  to  renew  the  legal 
environment  on  international  labour  migration,  with 
a  main  focus  on  improving  migration  management, 
ensuring migrants’ rights, preventing their falling into 
irregular status and exposure to risks, and redesigning 
regulations on labour immigration, taking into account 
the needs of the domestic labour market.
The  Government  has  been  making  great  efforts 
to  establish  bilateral  agreements  with  receiving  and 
sending countries with a view to increasing the positive 
impact of migration. For instance, such efforts include 
the  establishment  and  effective  implementation  of 
respective  bilateral  agreements  with  the  Republic  of 
Korea on employment and social security and pension 
portability. Moreover, the Government pursues policies 
to reach its nationals who remain in foreign countries 
in large numbers and whose social guarantees have not 
been  duly  ensured  for  years  by  concluding  bilateral 
agreements  and  regularizing  their  illegal  status,  with 
particular attention being given to children and women. 
Furthermore,  we  undertake  efforts  to  expand  our 
cooperation with countries of destination by ensuring 
the conditions for a rights-based approach to migration 
and securing basic social guarantees for the Mongolian 
diaspora  and  those  who  are  part  of  multicultural 
families.
the 
Let  me 
emphasize 
a 
comprehensive  approach  to  addressing  the  complex 
issue  of  international  migration  in  increasing  the 
positive impact of migration on migrants and a country’s 
development.
importance  of 
the 
Ever  since 
International  Conference  on 
Population and Development, Mongolia has pursued a 
holistic approach to integrating the issues of population 
and development into our national development agenda. 
I  am  also  pleased  to  share  with  members  that  the 
Government of Mongolia is in the process of reviewing 
its  population  policy, 
into  consideration 
population and migration issues in close relation to and 
in the framework of the national development agenda. 
The  policy  aims  to  establish  international  migration 
management  that  prioritizes  citizens’  rights,  national 
interests  and  priority  development  issues,  promotes 
taking 
a  return  movement  of  the  Mongolian  diaspora  and 
ensures migrants’ right to education, employment and 
stay in Mongolia.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
Mongolian  Government’s  commitment  to  supporting 
the outcome documents of the High-level Dialogue and 
express, once again, Mongolia’s willingness to maintain 
and  to  call  for  an  even  closer  cooperation  at  regional 
and  global  levels  in  implementing  migration  policies 
that are rights-based and free from discrimination and 
that promote national priorities and development.
I  wish  every  success  to  the  deliberations  of  the 
High-level Dialogue.
Mr.  Alshamsi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): At the outset, I would like to thank the United 
Nations Secretariat and all those who participated in the 
preparation for the High-level Dialogue on International 
Migration  and  Development.  For  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  this  High-level  Dialogue  not  only  marks 
the  culmination  of  a  seven-year  process  to  highlight, 
document  and  measure  the  benefits  of  international 
migration for development, but also represents a gateway 
to  a  new  phase  of  international  cooperation  based  on 
the contributions of international migration and labour 
mobility  in  achieving  human,  economic  and  social 
development.  Adding  the  labour  mobility  dimension 
to  the  development  framework  and  integrating  it  into 
that framework must be one component of the United 
Nations post-2015 development agenda, maximizing its 
impact and benefits and minimizing its negative effects 
on  development,  as  well  as  enabling  Member  States 
to develop their national policies and strengthen their 
bilateral and multilateral cooperation for that purpose.
The  Arab  Gulf  region  is  regarded  as  one  of  the 
world’s most attractive regions for cross-border mobile 
labour.  The  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  today  hosts 
nearly  17  million  workers  of  various  nationalities, 
who have contributed and continue to contribute to the 
development of our national economies, as well as to the 
economies of the countries of origin, where, according 
to  World  Bank  estimates,  their  annual  remittances 
are  approximately  $80  billion.  In  addition  to  those 
contributions,  our  efforts  should  focus  on  ensuring 
that  the  development  impact  of  labour  mobility  is 
enjoyed  by  all  stakeholders,  including  workers  and 
their family members and the domestic social context 
in  their  countries  of  origin,  thereby  bringing  about 
comprehensive  and  sustainable  development  in  those 
countries of origin.
13-50003
3/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
The  international  Dialogue  that  was  launched  in 
2006, and that continued and grew through the Global 
Forum  on  Migration  and  Development,  has  reached 
a  key  conclusion:  that  the  equitable  and  sustainable 
maximization  of  the  benefits  of  development  is  of 
common interest to all the parties concerned with the 
phenomenon of cross-border labour mobility in all its 
forms, and that bilateral and multilateral cooperation, 
international 
with 
the  participation  of 
organizations,  would  ensure 
that 
endeavour.
relevant 
the  success  of 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  currently  seeking, 
through  the  Abu  Dhabi  Dialogue,  which  is  composed 
of  Asian  labour-sending  and  -receiving  countries  and 
is  presided  over  by  the  Philippines,  to  identify  ways 
of  enabling  workers  to  benefit  from  development. 
Such  ways  would  include:  first,  reducing  the  cost  of 
recruitment  by  supervising  the  activities  of  private 
agencies;  secondly,  developing  workers’  professional 
skills  before 
their  arrival  and  documenting  and 
recognizing  the  skills  acquired  during  their  stay,  as 
well as establishing an understanding with the sending 
countries to acknowledge those skills after the workers 
return to their homeland; thirdly, developing a research 
agenda for identifying the human and social qualities 
that  can  be  developed  in  workers  and  incentives  to 
encourage them and their families to invest part of their 
remittances  in  social  services,  such  as  education  and 
health services; and, fourthly, developing information 
systems designed to match supply and demand in order 
to ensure successful contractual labour cycles.
My Government looks forward to cooperating with 
international  organizations,  particularly  the  World 
Bank,  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
and  the  United  Nations  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs, in the execution of several joint projects 
with the member States of the Abu Dhabi Dialogue. In 
that connection, we are willing to place the outcomes 
and formulations of those initiatives at the disposal of 
the United Nations Development Programme and other 
organizations  concerned  with  crafting  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
Mr.  Schmidt-Bremme  (Germany):  At  the  outset, 
I would like to express my Government’s condolences 
to  those  affected  by  the  tragic  events  off  the  coast  of 
Lampedusa. They are only the latest in a far too long 
series of catastrophes in the Mediterranean Sea.
The  German  Government  warmly  welcomes  the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development as an opportunity to foster international 
debate  on  that  subject.  Germany  is  convinced  that 
the  second  High-level  Dialogue  will  be  a  pioneering 
landmark for the future of migration policy.
Commissioner  Malmström  and 
the  European 
Union  (EU)  presidency  have  already  outlined  the  EU 
approach on international migration and development. 
We  share  those  points  but  would  like  to  make  some 
further comments from a German perspective.
When  migration  is  discussed,  Germany  currently 
focuses  on  the  tragic  situation  of  the  many  millions 
of  Syrian  refugees.  We  are  sending  a  strong  signal 
of  solidarity  by  providing  substantive  humanitarian 
assistance to the neighbouring countries. Furthermore, 
we have guaranteed tens of thousands of Syrians a stay 
in Germany.
From  the  perspective  of  Germany  —  a  country 
with  substantial 
immigration  experience,  whose 
demographic profile has profoundly changed — human 
mobility  is  an  increasingly  important  global  reality 
that  clearly  affects  the  future  of  both  developing  and 
developed countries.
Germany has shaped its migration policy in close 
cooperation  with  partner  countries,  guided  by  the 
fair consideration of mutual interests. In addition, the 
Government  aims  to  implement  a  coherent  policy,  in 
which  labour-market  concerns  and  foreign,  security 
and development matters are combined.
My delegation and I personally welcome the positive 
remarks of the Special Representative of the Secretary-
General on Migration, Mr. Peter Sutherland, concerning 
the efforts of Germany in this field. The Assembly may 
be  assured  that  Germany  continues  to  provide  equal 
opportunities  for  the  participation  and  integration  of 
all  persons  with  a  migrant  background  in  the  social, 
economic  and  cultural  life  of  Germany.  Important 
areas  of  engagement  include  the  integration  and  self-
organization  of  migrant  women;  the  integration  of 
young migrants into school and professional education 
institutions, as well as into the labour market; a wider 
recognition  of  foreign  diplomas;  and  a  substantial 
reduction in the cost of sending remittances, which was 
announced yesterday.
Since  2006,  the  German  Government  has  been 
hosting  integration  summits  on  a  regular  basis.  A 
national  integration  plan  has  served  as  a  basis  to 
actively  support  the  integration  of  migrants,  and  in 
particular  to  allow  them  to  develop  their  potential  to 
4/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
the  maximum  extent  possible.  In  order  to  implement 
the  aforementioned  core  principles, 
the  German 
Government  is  convinced  that  sending  and  receiving 
countries  require  international  exchange  and  an  open 
debate  over  their  national  experiences,  strategies  and 
interests  in  order  to  elaborate  a  development-friendly 
migration policy. The German Government facilitates 
the  transfer  of  knowledge  through  returning  experts 
whose  work  is  relevant  for  the  development  of  their 
countries of origin; it provides advice to migrants who 
wish to invest or start a business in their countries of 
origin; and it cofunds development projects.
Germany  is  party  to  migration  partnerships  with 
Armenia,  Georgia,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  the 
Kingdom of Morocco. Our good experiences with those 
partnerships encourage us to deepen the path of bilateral 
and regional dialogue and hands-on cooperation in the 
field of migration and mobility.
More  than  ever,  Germany  is  aware  that  well-
managed  migration  is  a  win-win  situation  for  both 
migrants  and  their  countries  of  origin,  as  well  as 
for  Germany.  Thus,  migration  is  clearly  linked  to 
development  and  should  be  taken  into  account  in  the 
preparations for the post-2015 development agenda as 
an enabler of inclusive and sustainable development.
Mr. Ly (Viet Nam): At the outset, Viet Nam would 
like to express its appreciation to the General Assembly 
for  convening  the  second  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development, an important 
event at United Nations Headquarters in this beautiful 
city of New York.
There  are  about  4.5  million  Vietnamese  living 
overseas  nowadays  and  some  730,000  Vietnamese 
migrants who have worked, studied and are married to 
foreigners  abroad.  Viet  Nam  is  an  origin,  transit  and 
destination country for migrants, and the Government 
of  Viet  Nam  has  acknowledged  that  international 
migration  is  a  result  of  globalization  and  needs  not 
only  efficient  policies  and  effective  activities  on  the 
part of every Government, international organizations 
and  others  in  the  world  community,  but  international 
cooperation as well. The policy of the Government of 
Viet Nam on migration is to facilitate regular migration 
and to prevent and combat irregular migration.
Viet Nam is an active and responsible member of 
regional  and  international  processes  and  initiatives 
in  the  area  of  migration  management  in  general,  and 
in  particular  in  the  prevention  of  and  combat  against 
illegal  migration  and  human  trafficking,  which  is  the 
other side of the coin. My Government attaches great 
importance  to  combating  human  trafficking.  While 
promoting information dissemination, we also continue 
to  introduce  new  laws  and  regulations  to  prevent  and 
combat  human  trafficking.  National  plans  of  action 
have  been  formulated,  and  a  national  commission 
for  preventing  and  combating  crimes  related 
in 
particular  to  the  trafficking  of  women  and  children 
has  been  created.  The  commission  is  constituted  of 
multi-institutional  mechanisms  from  17  ministries, 
unions and organizations.
Much  effort  has  been  made  by  the  relevant 
authorities  of  Viet  Nam  in  implementing  measures  of 
prosecution,  protection  and  prevention  in  connection 
with  people-smuggling  and  trafficking  in  persons. 
Bearing  in  mind  that  international  migration  requires 
cross-border cooperation, Viet Nam has been active in 
the International Peace Commission, the Bali Process, 
the  Colombo  Process,  the  Association  for  Southeast 
Asian Nations migration dialogue, and the Coordinated 
Mekong  Ministerial  Initiative  against  Trafficking, 
and  in  promoting  effective  cooperation  with  such 
international,  United  Nations  and  non-governmental 
organizations  as  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration,  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, 
the  United  Nations  Inter-Agency  Project 
on  Human  Trafficking,  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  International  Labour 
Organization, the Asia Foundation and many others.
At  the  end  of  2011,  Viet  Nam  ratified  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime and acceded to the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children. Viet Nam has signed bilateral agreements 
on  preventing  and  combating  human  trafficking  and 
protecting  victims  with  Cambodia  in  2005,  with 
Thailand in 2008, and with Laos and China in 2010.
As 
it  attends 
the  High-level  Dialogue, 
the 
Government of Viet Nam shares the view that migration 
creates  opportunities  for  development.  Viet  Nam  has 
come  to  the  High-level  Dialogue  with  the  following 
views.
First,  migration  is  certainly  the  outcome  of  the 
globalization  and  integration  processes.  Viet  Nam 
will  contribute  to  the  consideration  of  the  issues 
of  international  migration  and  development  in  the 
framework of the post-2015 United Nations development 
agenda.  Secondly,  the  Government  of  Viet  Nam  will 
13-50003
5/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
continue its many efforts to encourage regular migration 
while  protecting  the  rights  of  migrants,  and  to  fight 
illegal migration by imposing severe penalties for the 
crimes of people smuggling and trafficking in persons. 
Thirdly, the Government of Viet Nam will continue to 
cooperate on migration issues at all levels — national, 
bilateral, regional and international.
Mr.  Taveras  (Dominican  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  The  Dominican  Republic  is  a  nation  with 
an  internationalist  calling  that  is  firmly  enshrined 
in  its  Constitution.  Given  its  consistent  support  of 
international initiatives to realize ideals of justice, equity 
and  the  social,  economic  and  political  development 
of  nations,  my  country  clearly  and  fully  endorses  all 
the concepts outlined by the General Assembly at this 
High-Level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development.
That is because our nation, at its roots, is a melting 
pot  of  races  and  cultural  wealth  in  which  migration 
has  played  a  dominant  role.  As  a  country  of  origin, 
destination  and  transit  for  migrants,  we  recognize 
migration  as  a  multidimensional  factor  that  has  an 
impact on the development of the nations involved.
In  defining  a  migrant,  one  key  word  is  “hope”, 
because generally speaking people uproot themselves in 
a quest for hope, opportunities not yet found, horizons 
that  exist  only  in  the  far  distance,  and  a  search  for  a 
living space that does not exist in our own environment 
or which we prefer to seek in other latitudes for reasons 
that  can  range from love, personal  fulfilment  or even 
hunger, to name but a few.
However, this subject cannot be analysed in strictly 
human  or  economic  terms.  We  must  also  consider  all 
the  factors  that  underpin  it  and  the  interests  that  are 
mobilized  in  connection  with  migration  processes.  I 
would venture to say that this is the great challenge of 
the twenty-first century.
While  we  should  guarantee  all  rights,  we  cannot 
lose  sight  of  the  ways  in  which  the  international 
community  must  do  so.  All  efforts  must  be  made  to 
avoid racism, xenophobia and any other form of social 
or  political  discrimination  against  or  stigmatization 
of  migrants.  In  addressing  this  issue  in  this  forum  of 
sacred  world  consensus,  we  must  close  our  ears  to 
all  the  white  noise  generated  by  a  broad  spectrum  of 
interests. Some of these may be noble and inspired by 
solidarity and goodwill; others may serve the political 
or  economic  ends  of  certain  groups;  and  others  still 
may simply serve to launder the profits of the industry 
of  human  trafficking,  which  thrives  off  the  perfectly 
reasonable and justified zeal of nations and international 
organizations to guarantee the rights of its victims.
Nor  can  we  dissociate  migration  from  one  of  its 
main  root  causes,  namely,  the  unfair  distribution  of 
wealth  throughout  the  world,  which  brings  the  North 
and the South into conflict, with waste, consumerism 
and indifference over a growing lack of opportunities 
in  general  in  such  areas  as  employment,  access  to 
knowledge  or,  worst  of  all,  hunger.  In  that  contrast, 
migration plays a role in the search for a certain balance, 
and  remittances  provide  new  hope  for  those  who  are 
locked out of access to opportunities.
As long as world leaders fail to adopt a systematic 
programme  for  planning  numerous  mini-Marshall 
Plans to gradually reduce the unjustified realities that 
exist  in  many  nations  mired  in  poverty  at  levels  that 
are  an  affront  to  humankind,  migration  will  continue 
in many different forms, while the need to protect the 
security  and  identity  of  nations  cannot  be  purely  and 
simply ignored. If we start by ensuring due respect for 
the principle of the right of States to govern their own 
affairs in certain areas, that will serve as a guarantee of 
the existence of the community of nations.
The defence of migration will always be required, 
but we must do it in a balanced, case-by-case manner. 
In all countries of origin where the issue of subsistence 
and  the  quest  for  a  new  life  frequently  become  a 
life-and-death dilemma, we cannot deny our common 
responsibility to exercise the well-intentioned solidarity 
that  strengthens  national  institutions  and  develops 
economies.  We  can  never  lose  sight  of  the  factor  of 
geopolitical  destabilization  and  human  drama  that 
may be inherent in any migration process that occurs 
outside a framework of security, order and full respect 
for human rights.
We  cannot  merely  issue  declarations  of  goodwill. 
We have to tackle the inequalities that make migration 
flows  a  threat  to  the  security  of  persons  who  are 
generally victims of trafficking. We would suggest that 
we  use  caution  and  balance  in  considering  the  matter 
of  migration;  we  must  avoid  the  irresponsible  use  of 
social communication that leads to erroneous national 
and  international  decision-making  and  to  thoughtless 
confrontations  with  internationally  responsible  States 
that react to media sensationalism and stereotypes that 
have  no  basis  in  reality.  Let  us  therefore  responsibly 
6/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
adopt  reasonable  standards  and  avoid  dangerous 
populism.
I  will  conclude  by  paraphrasing  Laurence  Dubin, 
the  great  French  legal  expert,  who  always  advised 
lawyers not to forget the virtue of caution, to consider 
all the consequences of reforms that may be posited, and 
to uncover all the interests at stake, because otherwise, 
under the pretext of promoting greater justice, existing 
justice  would  be  exposed  to  destruction.  He  advised 
that we approach the interests of security in a special 
way. Security is said to be necessary in life and society, 
since without it we cannot have greater justice.
Ms.  Telalović  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  It  is 
my  great  pleasure  and  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly today on behalf of the institutions in charge of 
migration and the diaspora in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
First of all, we would like to extend our condolences 
to the families and friends of the migrants who tragically 
lost their lives in the Mediterranean yesterday.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  wishes  indeed  to  be  a 
part  of  a  global  solution  in  the  area  of  international 
migration, and we have multiple reasons for doing so. 
With  a  view  to  linking  migration  and  development, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  acts  in  accordance  with  the 
European  Commission’s  recommendations  set  out  in 
two key documents, the Global Approach to Migration 
and  Mobility  and  the  Biannual  Report  on  Policy 
Coherence for Development.
My  country’s  need  to  undertake  activities  aimed 
at linking migration and development arises from the 
following  facts.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  ranked 
second  among  the  top  two  developing  countries  in 
Europe  with  respect  to  total  emigration  rate  and  the 
diaspora  from  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  represents 
around 38.9 per cent of the country’s total population, 
and such a huge number of people should not be excluded 
from  the  development  flows  in  our  country.  Bosnian 
emigrants  live  in  almost  all  countries  throughout 
the  world,  on  virtually  all  continents.  The  key  host 
countries  in  Europe  are  Germany,  Austria,  Slovenia, 
Sweden  and  Switzerland;  other  key  host  countries 
include the United States, Canada and Australia.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  therefore  faced  an 
extensive  brain  drain;  a  large  portion  of  emigration 
from  our  country  consists  of  highly  skilled  workers. 
The World Bank estimates that the emigration rate of 
tertiary-educated persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina 
amounts to 28.6 per cent.
There  has  been  a  huge  inflow  of  remittances 
received  from  our  diaspora,  while  retained  savings 
have  remained  even  higher.  In  the  course  of  the  past 
few years, the remittances have amounted to between 
7 and 15 per cent of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s overall 
gross domestic product. Moreover, the annual volume 
of remittances transferred by our diaspora is six times 
higher  than  the  overall  foreign  direct  investment  to 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  three  times  higher  than 
overall official development assistance. In addition, the 
retained savings of our diaspora are estimated to be four 
times higher than the overall volume of remittances.
With a view to linking migration to development, 
the  following  activities  have  been  carried  out  in  my 
country.  We  have  recognized  the  role  of  the  diaspora 
in  development,  and  we  have  embedded  a  number  of 
related  activities  in  key  strategic  documents.  The 
Council  of  Ministers  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has 
adopted  several  documents  concerning  migration 
and  development,  including  documents  on  scientific 
diaspora  and  migration-related  financial  flows  and 
investment  in  the  country.  For  five  years  now,  my 
country’s  institutions  have  independently  prepared 
annual migration profiles on Bosnia and Herzegovina 
that include sections on emigration and remittances.
In the past few years, we have initiated and hosted 
four major regional events in the Western Balkans on the 
theme of linking migration to development: a regional 
workshop entitled “Linking migration to development 
of  countries  of  origin  in  the  Western  Balkans”,  an 
international  research  workshop  on  “Migration  from 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina”,  a  regional  event  entitled 
“Institutional setting of development-oriented diaspora 
policy”, and an international workshop on international 
emigration.
We  have  collected  data  and  cooperated  with 
non-governmental organizations and individuals in the 
diaspora in order to establish a network for enhancing 
knowledge transfer and investment projects in Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. We have supported and participated 
in  brain-gain-oriented  projects  and  in  many  activities 
run  by  non-governmental  organizations  from  our 
diaspora abroad.
In  the  course  of  2012,  the  State-level  strategy  on 
migration  and  asylum  was  adopted  by  the  Council  of 
Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and one of its set 
objectives is strengthening the institutional capacity of 
my country aimed at linking migration to development 
13-50003
7/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
and utilizing development resources from the diaspora 
for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Within 
the  migration  partnership  signed  by 
Switzerland  and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the  Swiss 
Agency 
for  Development  and  Cooperation  has 
funded  two  key  projects:  “Diaspora  from  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  in  Switzerland”  and  “Migration  and 
development:  mainstreaming  migration 
local 
development”.
into 
We have tried to increase the interest of the developed 
countries, as well as of some key intergovernmental and 
international organizations that operate in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  in  mainstreaming  the  area  of  migration 
and  development  into  their  respective  strategies  and 
action plans, as well as in cooperating closely on that 
issue with our institutions. Unfortunately, development 
assistance  plans  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  do  not 
contain the area of linking migration to development. 
However,  there  have  been  some  notable  exceptions, 
such as the bilateral agreement on migration partnership 
signed with Switzerland.
To  conclude,  we  hope  that  all  of  us  will  continue 
to  rely  on  the  Declaration  adopted  at  this  High-level 
Dialogue  (resolution  68/4)  and  other  documents 
presented in order to continue to make serious efforts 
aimed  at  mainstreaming  the  intersectoral  area  of 
international  migration  into  foreign,  development, 
educational,  social  and  all  other  relevant  policies  at 
the national, regional and global levels. Migration is a 
global issue and therefore needs to be regulated at the 
global level.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  would  like  to  express  our  condolences 
to  the  family  members  of  the  migrants  killed  in  the 
tragedy that occurred in Lampedusa yesterday.
We  congratulate  President  Ashe  on  having 
organized  this  much-needed  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. We take this 
opportunity to assure him of Nicaragua’s constructive 
support  during  the  Dialogue.  My  delegation  endorses 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Fiji 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  of  Cuba 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States.
This  debate  provides  an  excellent  opportunity  to 
promote  the  governance  of  international  migration, 
with  particular  regard  to  the  protection  of  the  human 
rights of all migrants, including their economic, social 
and  political  rights,  the  way  in  which  migrants  and 
migration are perceived, and the inclusion of migration 
on the international and national development agendas, 
especially 
the  post-2015 
development agenda.
incorporation 
their 
into 
In 
an 
increasingly  globalized  world, 
the 
phenomenon  of  international  migration  has  continued 
to  grow.  The  movement  of  populations  in  all  regions 
is  largely  the  outcome  of  the  unequal  and  unjust 
economic and financial order that currently prevails at 
the international level. It has forced millions of human 
beings  to  migrate  to  the  industrialized  countries  in  a 
quest  for  better  conditions.  Likewise,  wars  imposed 
from elsewhere against developing countries also affect 
migration flows.
The  reality  of  this  globalized  world  demands  the 
formulation and implementation of coherent migration 
policies.  More  than  ever,  we  need  a  framework  for 
cooperation  based  on  the  ordered  channeling  and 
intelligent regulation of migration flows so as to prevent 
the trafficking and smuggling of persons and to ensure 
respect for the human rights and freedoms of migrants.
The contributions of migrants to the socioeconomic 
development  of  destination  countries  have  still  not 
been duly recognized. A full 10 per cent of Nicaragua’s 
population  lives  in  other  countries,  and  our  country 
has  one  of  the  highest  level  of  remittances  in  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  We  therefore  repeat  that 
it is essential to ensure that the working conditions of 
migrant  workers  and  their  families  not  be  allowed  to 
further deteriorate.
We  cannot  consider  the  subject  of  migration 
without looking at the root causes of the situation. This 
is a structural matter that arises from the lack of a new 
economic architecture. While it is true that poverty has 
been  reduced,  major  inequalities  nonetheless  persist 
throughout the world. I would like to briefly share the 
experiences of our country with regard to migrants.
In  its  public  policies  for  the  protection  of  our 
migrants, Nicaragua has installed mobile consulates in 
countries with Nicaraguan migrants. That has enabled 
us  to  streamline  the  documentation  of  our  citizens. 
We  have  also  signed  important  agreements  with 
other  countries  for  the  return  of  Nicaraguan  citizens. 
Above  all,  we  have  focused  our  development  policies 
for  Nicaragua’s  men  and  women  on  initiatives  aimed 
at  incorporating  them  into  the  country’s  development 
and to substantially improving their standard of living 
8/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
through public investment policies, free education and 
health systems, and direct foreign investment with an 
economic growth rate of 5 per cent in recent years.
time  dealing  with  an  unprecedented  financial  crisis. 
In  that  context,  Greek  policy  is  based  mainly  on  the 
several axes.
All  of  this  has  redounded  to  the  great  benefit  of 
our  population,  as  reflected  in  the  decline  in  our 
population  that  needs  to  emigrate  and  in  the  return 
of  many  Nicaraguan  citizens.  Those  are  just  a  few  of 
our  good  practices,  but  much  more  needs  to  be  done 
together with the international community. Concretely, 
we  need  to  recognize  the  relevance  of  migration  to 
the  three  pillars  of  sustainable  development  and  to 
adequately incorporate it into the United Nations post-
2015 development agenda by establishing clear goals.
First, Greece tackles legal and illegal migration by 
promoting  integration  measures  regarding  the  labour 
market,  the  education  system  and  social  security 
structures, as well as through the efficient management 
of  immigration  flows,  while  respecting  the  dignity 
of  migrants  and  asylum  requirements,  policies  and 
practices  in  that  respect.  Secondly,  Greek  policy  is 
based  on  specific  short-  and  long-term  measures  that 
demonstrate  our  commitment  to  implementing  them 
despite emerging challenges.
To conclude, I reiterate that without political will 
we cannot effectively tackle this theme. In the sphere of 
cooperation, the States Members of the United Nations 
will  need  to  contribute  effectively  in  order  to  protect 
all migrants.
Mr.  Caramitsos  Tzieras  (Greece):  Let  me  begin 
by thanking the President of the General Assembly for 
convening  this  meeting.  We  firmly  believe  that  this 
High-level Dialogue constitutes a constructive exchange 
of views and ideas on this important international issue.
Greece aligns itself with the statement on migration 
and development made yesterday by the observer of the 
European Union. In that framework, I would like to add 
a few remarks on the issue under discussion.
Migration and development are closely interlinked. 
The challenges of the development aspect of migration 
are numerous, and it is vital to put the necessary measures 
in  place  to  successfully  deal  with  them.  Effectively 
managed  migration  can  have  a  positive  impact  on 
origin and host countries alike, and cooperation in that 
area  among  Governments,  civil  society,  the  private 
sector and international organizations is essential. The 
international community must also fight the root causes 
of illegal migration by promoting security and balanced 
development  globally.  In  that  respect,  we  support  the 
inclusion  of  migration  in  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
Greece and the whole of Europe continue to deal with 
significant migration flows while undergoing a serious 
economic and financial crisis with local, regional and 
global dimensions. My country in particular borders on 
regions that face serious geo-economic and geopolitical 
problems.  Greece  confronts  the  challenges  caused  by 
illegal migration with decisiveness, while at the same 
Lastly,  Greece  promotes  a  policy  of  cooperation 
with the principal actors involved in preventing illegal 
migration.  They  include  the  European  Union  (EU), 
where  Greece  participates  actively  in  the  European 
framework that deals with illegal immigration and the 
integration of legal immigrants. In that regard, Greece 
recognizes  that  migration  mobility  contributes  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), and that and related issues will be a priority 
during Greece’s forthcoming presidency of the EU, in 
the first half of 2014.
Greece 
also 
cooperates  with 
international 
organizations  and  acknowledges  their  contributions, 
especially  the  contribution  of  the  United  Nations,  to 
achieving  the  MDGs,  and  in  that  regard  emphasizes 
the  role  of  the  Global  Forum  for  Migration  and 
Development; with civil society and non-governmental 
organizations,  many  of  which  have  contributed  to 
the  more  efficient  and  effective  management  of  legal 
migration; with countries of transit; and, finally, with 
the  countries  of  origin  of  illegal  immigrants,  which 
must join in the efforts needed to deal successfully with 
this universal challenge.
We call for the creation of a policy framework that 
will  facilitate  migrants’  readmission  to  their  home 
countries;  at  the  same  time,  we  believe  strongly  that 
illegal migration should be dealt with in a humane but 
effective  manner.  European  and  national  legislation 
provides 
the  necessary  framework  for  managing 
migrants in an orderly and legal way that is designed 
to successfully integrate them into European society.
I would like to conclude by saying that Greece is 
fully committed to cooperating with all relevant actors 
at  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels,  and 
to  finding  the  best  ways  to  maximize  the  benefits  of 
13-50003
9/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
migration  and  tackle  its  challenges  effectively  in  line 
with the relevant EU policies.
Al-Saud,  Yemen  would  have  become  the  victim  of  a 
civil war that would have destroyed the country.
Mr. Al-Quhali (Yemen) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
first like to offer my sincere condolences and sympathy 
to the families of the victims who died in the Lampedusa 
accident, for whom we ask for God’s mercy.
We  support  the  statement  delivered  by  Fiji  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25).
Migration,  an  ancient  humanitarian  phenomenon 
that has existed since time immemorial, brings together 
peoples and cultures by integrating them into the social 
fabric.  Migrants  are  ambassadors  of  peace  for  their 
countries who bring their culture with them. We believe 
that  migration  can  be  a  way  of  reducing  violence, 
increasing stability and narrowing economic gaps.
The Arab Spring that a number of Arab countries, 
including  Yemen,  have  experienced  did  not  arise  out 
of a lack of legislation or scant respect for rights and 
obligations;  it  was,  rather,  an  issue  of  the  awakening 
of  a  generation  of  unemployed  young  people  living 
in  extreme  poverty.  There  exist  various  types  of 
terrorists, such as Al-Qaida and other extremists, who 
fuel  violence  and  hatred  and  exploit  young  people 
in  order  to  carry  out  a  policy  of  destruction,  which 
becomes possible owing to poverty and unemployment. 
Of  Yemen’s  many  current  problems,  the  major  one  is 
unemployment, due in part to the nearly one and a half 
million  refugees  from  the  Horn  of  Africa,  who  have 
fled the situation of war in their countries, which has 
resulted in near-total destruction. Despite the scarcity 
of resources, the Yemeni political leadership has done 
all it can to help these young people and to protect their 
humanity and dignity.
In  that  regard,  I  cannot  fail,  on  behalf  of  my 
country’s leaders, to warmly thank and commend the 
United Nations and the International Organization for 
Migration  for  their  assistance  to  those  displaced  in 
Yemen. We hope that the international community and 
our donor countries will continue to contribute to the 
development programmes and plans aimed at tackling 
the  various  economic,  social  and  political  challenges 
that have resulted from political conflicts and policies 
of submission, as well as the crisis that began in 2011. 
For,  without  the  efforts  and  help  of  the  international 
community, and in particular of the United Nations and 
the  Security  Council,  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
and  Saudi  Arabia  under  the  auspices  of  the  house  of 
At the national level, despite difficulties and negative 
factors,  we  have  developed  a  positive  and  modern 
system for regulating safe and legal migration. We have 
also  set  up  training  programmes  for  foreign  workers, 
and  we  are  coordinating  efforts  with  various  entities 
to tackle illegal migration and human trafficking. The 
Minister in charge of migration has eliminated the fees 
that were unfairly imposed on migrant workers, and we 
have established social-protection laws in the areas of 
planning  and  investment.  Offices  responsible  for  the 
interests  of  migrant  workers  will  soon  be  established 
in missions abroad; furthermore, we have also set up a 
national council for foreigners and an assistance bureau 
for  foreign  and  Yemeni  workers,  in  which  investors 
will  participate.  A  database  is  also  being  developed, 
and we are preparing for the fourth of the conferences 
of  foreign  workers  that  are  held  every  four  years.  A 
special  television  channel  is  also  being  created  for 
migrant workers to address their needs.
Yemen is also a country of origin for many migrant 
workers  in  many  countries  around  the  world.  Their 
participation in the life and society of those countries 
is  recognized  as  an  important  factor  in  development. 
Yemen,  at  this  stage  of  its  modern  transition  period, 
hopes  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  will  result  in 
solutions worthy of the General Assembly for dealing 
with the great challenges in connection with migrants. 
The  first  of  these  challenges  is  to  supervise  and 
organize  legal  migration  and  employment.  Secondly, 
we hope to see foreign and migrant workers’ rights and 
those of their families protected, in accordance with the 
norms and standards of national and international laws. 
Thirdly, we also want to see an improved development 
process  that  will  help  to  create  opportunities  and 
to  solve  the  economic  problems  in  the  countries  that 
export migrant workers.
Mr.  Mushy 
(United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 
Our  two-day  High-level  Dialogue  on  Migration  and 
Development  is  clear  testimony  to  our  collective 
recognition  of  the  role  that  migration  and  migrants 
play  in  the  development  of  their  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination.  Through  this  meeting,  and 
many that preceded it, we have once more elevated the 
issue of international migration to the top of the global 
development agenda. The timing of the meeting is also 
opportune, given the ongoing consultations on the post-
2015 development agenda.
10/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
In our view, this High-level Dialogue should clarify 
and  establish  clear  linkages  between  migration  and 
development in the context of the future development 
agenda. We are fully cognizant of the challenges lying 
ahead in integrating the issue of migration in the future 
sustainable  development  goals,  owing  to  its  complex 
nature,  but  we  are  confident  that  through  this  two-
day  dialogue  and  subsequent  debates,  we  will  find  a 
workable solution.
The  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on 
the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda 
recognizes the contribution of migrants and migration 
to  the  economic  well-being  of  their  countries  of 
destination  and  origin.  It  is  thus  our  firm  belief  that 
orderly  migration  can  and  does  contribute  to  poverty 
eradication  at  the  household,  familial,  societal  and 
national levels; increases human capital; and provides 
a  multiplier  effect  in  local  economies.  Migrants  can 
also transfer skills, expertise, technology and cultural 
norms and knowledge, including traditional knowledge, 
to their countries of origin or destination.
It  is  out  of  that  recognition  that  our  Government 
has  initiated  processes  that  are  intended  to  improve 
the  well-being  of  our  diaspora  community  in  order 
to  allow  them  to  participate  more  effectively  in  the 
socioeconomic  development  of  their  home  countries, 
including through direct remittances and investments. 
Those efforts are spearheaded by the Diaspora Affairs 
Department under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 
International Cooperation.
In  addition,  we  have  developed  an  action  plan 
on  migration-related  issues  for  the  2012-2016  term, 
which  focuses  on  building 
institutional  capacity, 
setting  up  national  consultation  processes,  enhancing 
dialogue  between 
regional  and  national  bodies, 
identifying  and  filling  of  data  gaps,  and  formulating 
migration and border-management strategies. The plan 
further  indicates  ways  of  strengthening  the  internal 
coordination  among  Government  authorities  working 
on migration-related issues.
Tanzania  is  among  the  African,  Caribbean  and 
Pacific  (ACP)  Group  of  States  that  are  currently 
implementing  the  Intra-ACP  Migration  Facility  pilot 
from 2011 to date. The main objective of the Facility is 
to support the mainstreaming of migration issues into 
national development policies and strategies. Through 
ACP  support,  Tanzania  has  established  a  national 
consultative  committee  on  migration  composed  of 
Government  entities,  civil  society,  non-governmental 
organizations  and  the  private  sector.  Currently,  we 
are  working  on  developing  a  national  migration  and 
development policy.
Migrants  are  increasingly  on  the  move,  flowing 
in  and  out  of  our  borders  in  search  of  a  better  life. 
Such  movements  can  place  a  huge  strain  on  the 
receiving  countries,  especially  those  with  fragile 
economies.  International  assistance  is  indispensable 
in  those  circumstances.  But  even  more  imperative 
is  the  existence  of  a  policy  environment  permitting 
the  humane  treatment  of  migrants,  including  the 
regularization  of  illegal  migrants  to  enable  them  to 
participate  freely  in  development  endeavours  in  the 
countries of their residence.
The international community needs to understand 
and appreciate national and regional complexities and 
peculiarities when dealing with international migration 
and  development.  Countries  like  my  own,  Tanzania, 
which  is  both  a  transit  and  destination  country  for 
migrants,  face  a  myriad  of  challenges  ranging  from 
armed criminality, and the proliferation of small arms 
and  light  weapons  to  the  violation  of  wildlife  and 
conservation rules and regulations, in particular logging 
and  poaching.  Most  countries  that  are  surrounded  by 
conflict  or  war-prone  countries  experience  the  same 
situation.  Each  Government  therefore  must  be  given 
ample  space  to  determine  its  migration  policies  and 
priorities  consistent  with  its  geopolitical  location  and 
international  standards.  There  is  no  one-size-fits-all 
policy in that regard.
I  wish  to  underscore  that  the  interconnection 
between  migration  and  development  is  crucial  in 
the  optimal  potential  of  globalization. 
realizing 
Migrants’  contributions 
to  development  heavily 
depend on the creation of an enabling environment for 
migrants to invest, for their own development and for 
their  countries.  We  must  strive  to  build  and  promote 
sustainable migration, one which will complement the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  Despite  our  support 
for  the  outcome  of  this  Dialogue,  my  delegation 
feels  strongly  that  the  Declaration  of  the  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
(resolution  68/4)  lacks  focus  and  the  clear  linkage 
between  migration  and  development  in  the  context  of 
a  post-2015  development  framework.  It  is  imperative, 
therefore,  that  we  continue  our  consultations  on  the 
subject to ensure that we have a clear picture of the role 
of migration in future development.
13-50003
11/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
Yesterday  and 
today,  we  have  heard  many 
delegations  express  their  condolences  and  sympathies 
to those who lost their loved ones in the recent tragedy. 
If  we  are  serious,  as  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
we must act and act now. We must show our sympathy 
and  condolences  in  action.  We  must  unite  our  efforts 
to ensure that international migration and development 
take a proper seat in the post-2015 development agenda. 
We  must  have  a  clearly  defined  objective  and  goal 
that  must  be  and  should  be  included  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Short  of  that,  the  loved  ones  of 
those who lost their lives yesterday, coincidentally just 
as  we  began  our  High-level  Dialogue  —  particularly 
women, children and pregnant women — will judge us 
harshly.
Finally, I wish to associate my statement with the 
statements  made  by  representatives  of  Fiji,  speaking 
on behalf of the Group or 77 and China, and of Benin, 
speaking on behalf of the least developed countries (see 
A/68/PV.25).
Mr.  Calderón  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the Government of Colombia, I wish to extend 
our greetings to all members of the Assembly. Colombia 
welcomes 
the  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
organized  by  the  United  Nations,  as  an  appropriate 
forum for discussing the main aspects of international 
migration.
the  holding  of 
Colombia recognizes and welcomes the important 
considerations  put  forward  in  the  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development  (resolution  68/4),  such  as  recognition 
of  the  contribution  of  migrants  to  the  development 
of  countries  of  destination,  origin  and  transit,  and  of 
the need to effectively promote and protect the human 
rights and freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their 
migration status.
For Colombia, it is clear that migration governance 
is  not  confined  to  unilateral  policies,  but  must  be  a 
commitment  based  on  international  cooperation  in 
order to achieve the adoption of a binding, multilateral 
instrument in the form of an international convention 
on  migration.  In  that  context,  Colombia  wishes  to 
draw  attention  to  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in 
terms of regional level cooperation, particularly in the 
strengthening  of  measures  intended  to  ensure  respect 
for the human rights of migrants in the context of the 
South  American  Conference  on  Migration,  of  which 
Colombia currently serves as interim President.
Historically, Colombia has been a country of origin 
for migrants. However, for the past decade the country 
has  experienced  a  substantial  increase  in  the  number 
of  migrants  arriving  in  Colombia  with  the  intent  of 
remaining.  In  addition,  its  geographical  position  has 
made  it  a  transit  country  for  irregular  migrants  and 
victims of international trafficking networks. As a result, 
Colombia has been strengthening its institutions to deal 
with the phenomenon of migration, and we now have a 
legal  framework  that  criminalizes  the  trafficking  and 
smuggling of migrants and, most importantly, creates 
mechanisms to assist victims and to promote respect for 
their rights. We also have a law establishing a national 
migration system that coordinates Government efforts 
with  those  of  legislative  authorities  and  civil  society. 
Additionally,  we  have  a  law  that  regulates  the  return 
policy applying to Colombian migrants abroad.
In terms of immigration control at the institutional 
level,  Colombia  has  been  implementing  a  new  model 
for migration management based on three basic pillars: 
service,  security  and  human  rights.  We  wish  to  share 
this model as a best practice, giving a human face to the 
issue of care for migrants. Our model proposes a new 
immigration authority that is geared towards facilitating 
services,  in  particular  providing  care  and  guarantees 
to  those  who  are  in  vulnerable  situations  as  victims 
of  human  trafficking  or  smuggling,  and  constantly 
monitoring,  at  the  institutional  level,  the  migration 
situation. This has allowed us to adopt a public policy 
and  strengthen  the  relevant  institutions.  Within  this 
framework,  we  have  created  a  migrant  network  to 
coordinate the efforts of various Government agencies, 
in addition to an initiative being developed by various 
non-governmental  organizations  to  provide  assistance 
and support to migrants.
In conclusion, I would like to highlight and publicly 
recognize  the  support  that  Colombia  receives  from 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  in  the 
development and implementation of policies relating to 
migration and institutional strengthening within a new 
approach to the issue of migration in Colombia.
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
At the outset, Cameroon aligns itself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China at this High-level Dialogue on 
International  Migration  and  Development  (see  A/68/
PV.25).
We also share the emotion, pain and sympathy that 
have  been  unanimously  expressed  from  this  rostrum 
12/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
following  the  worst  migration  tragedy  to  date,  which 
occurred  yesterday  in  the  Mediterranean.  It  was  a 
timely  reminder  of  the  importance  of  the  General 
Assembly’s decision to place the issue of international 
migration and development at the top of its agenda for 
its  sixty-eighth  session.  The  High-level  Dialogue  will 
allow  us  to  consolidate  the  foundations  of  a  better-
coordinated  and  fruitful  international  cooperation  in 
the management of migration flows, which began at the 
first High-level Dialogue, held on 14 and 15 September 
2006 in New York, during the sixty-first session of the 
General Assembly.
Today, at a time of unprecedented human mobility, 
we have a good opportunity to improve governance in 
the field, especially by capitalizing on the positive links 
between  migration  and  socioeconomic  development, 
taking practical measures to ensure that migration better 
serves the process of development and the protection of 
the human rights of all migrants, including the issue of 
their rights in development programmes at the national 
and global level.
While  the  main  reason  behind  the  decision  to 
emigrate is the search for social betterment, the immense 
opportunities  arising  from  globalization  and  the  rise 
of  information  technology  and  communication  also 
enhance  that  dynamic,  sealing  today,  more  than  ever, 
the common destiny of hundreds of millions of people 
in our global village. This profound worldwide change 
requires  us  to  search  jointly  for  adequate  answers  to 
many related problems in view of the equally complex 
challenges that underlie them.
The  migration/development  equation  is  therefore 
of major importance. We are faced with a kind of dual 
linkage, with both positive and negative effects. Just as 
migration  can  be  the  result  of  a  lack  of  development, 
it  can  also  be  either  a  mitigating  or  an  exacerbating 
factor  of  underdevelopment.  It  is  therefore  clear 
that  migration  cannot  be  conclusively  labelled  as  an 
obstacle to development, but it is not a magic wand for 
development  either.  On  the  contrary,  whether  in  the 
sphere  of  migration  or  that  of  development,  we  must 
work to develop carefully thought-out policies to boost 
the good effects that migration has to offer in terms of 
development and to attenuate its adverse effects.
How  can  we  achieve 
the  mutual  benefit  of 
migration’s  positive  development  potential?  If  our 
approach to this issue is to be effective, a comprehensive 
approach is absolutely essential. This means taking into 
account  not  only  the  links  between  these  two  areas, 
but also their relationship to other areas of human life. 
Our belief is that we must establish an innovative and 
effective  partnership  that  is  harmoniously  integrated 
into  development  policies  and  programmes,  including 
the post-2015 development agenda.
We must therefore include, first, the strengthening 
of national capacities and migration policies; secondly, 
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  and  coordination 
among  the  United  Nations,  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration,  in  order  to 
promote the establishment of appropriate mechanisms 
to  enhance  coherence  and 
interaction  between 
international  migration  and  development;  thirdly,  the 
exploration and development of the diaspora’s potential 
in  terms  of  development;  and  fourthly,  respect  for 
human rights.
Indeed, respect for human rights is a key element 
of  migration  management.  Effective  respect  for  the 
human  rights  of  migrants  is  the  foundation  on  which 
migration can contribute positively to the development 
of  countries  of  origin  and  destination.  Similarly, 
the  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  is  of 
fundamental importance if we want to make migration 
a  safe,  dignified  and  rewarding  experience  for  the 
migrants themselves. Fully developing human potential 
in this respect requires, among other things, providing 
prospective migrants with a real choice of whether or 
not  to  migrate,  which  is  another  way  of  saying  that 
development  begins  in  the  country  of  origin.  The 
protection of migrants’ rights is necessary at all stages 
of the migration process. All forms of discrimination, 
intolerance and racism must be firmly rejected.
As  the  heir  to  a  history  profoundly  shaped  by  a 
tradition  of  tolerance,  the  Republic  of  Cameroon  has 
always  been  a  welcoming  country,  bringing  together 
people  from  different  backgrounds  —  hence  the 
particular  interest  of  my  country’s  Government  in 
the  relationship  between  migration  and  development. 
Cameroon is part of that dynamic, and its response to 
the  requests  and  expectations  of  its  diaspora  is  based 
on  two  pillars:  undertaking  actions  to  promote  that 
dynamic as part of a new approach and establishing the 
basis for a national diaspora management policy.
The  Government’s  new  approach  to  managing 
relations  with 
the 
implementation  of  positive  synergies  to  promote  the 
greater  participation  of  the  diaspora  in  Cameroon’s 
development.  To  that  end,  my  country’s  Ministry  of 
encourages 
the 
diaspora 
13-50003
13/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
Foreign Affairs includes a department for Cameroonians 
abroad, foreigners in Cameroon, refugees and migration 
issues, whose goal is to coordinate the development of 
a  national  policy  for  the  mobilization,  protection  and 
promotion of the Cameroonian diaspora, inter alia. To 
that end, meetings are held with representatives of the 
diaspora through the skills forum of the Cameroonian 
diaspora,  with  a  view  to  involving  expatriates  in  the 
national development process.
While national efforts play a crucial role in the field 
of migration, the role of the international partnership is 
undoubtedly important, especially as we are witnessing 
a resurgence of illegal migration, which is evolving into 
a  human  tragedy.  Given  the  limited  means  to  curb  a 
phenomenon  whose  scale  has  reached  unprecedented 
proportions,  Cameroon  has  negotiated  agreements  for 
managing migration flows with a number of countries. 
A first such agreement was signed between Cameroon 
and  France  in  May  2011,  stipulating  immigration  for 
professional  reasons  and  inclusive  development,  and 
the  most  recent  was  signed  in  September  2013  with 
Switzerland.
Cameroon  believes  that  any  attempt  to  make 
migration  a  driver  of  development  must  be  based  on 
the principles of shared responsibility, mutual interests 
and  inclusive  development,  and  include  the  following 
actions.  First,  we  must  fight  illegal  immigration 
because it is a breeding ground for all kinds of traffic 
and  abuse  and  may  be  a  source  of  insecurity  and 
tensions.  Secondly,  we  must  promote  legal  migration 
and  stabilizing  migration  flows,  including  through 
a  concerted  outreach  and  communication  campaign. 
Thirdly,  we  must  accept  and  fully  respect  the  rights 
and dignity of migrants and their families to strengthen 
migration  management  and  give  it  credibility.  The 
concept of inclusive development will be effective only 
if  it  offers  migrants’  more  opportunities  to  exercise 
their rights and duties through the effective respect of 
all States for the relevant international norms.
destination  must  work  in  close  cooperation,  not  only 
among  themselves,  but  also  with  businesses  and  civil 
society  to  pool  their  common  resources  and  invest  in 
the necessary human capital.
Therefore, inclusive development remains the key 
to the emergence of the countries concerned. Coherent 
policies  are  a  necessary  condition  to  take  advantage 
of  the  benefits  of  migration  to  development.  That 
means  we  have  to  ensure  that  the  issue  is  integrated 
into  the  development  strategies  of  our  countries  and 
into  the  pillars  of  cooperation  of  donor  countries  and 
international institutions.
We hope that, by resolutely engaging down the path 
of  a  healthy,  harmonious  and  mutually  advantageous 
management of migration, the international community 
will  reaffirm  its  willingness  to  act  decisively  against 
poverty,  persecution,  rejection  and  stigmatization 
in  favour  of  an  effective,  consensus-based  political 
dialogue on international migration for development.
With 
is  once  again  holding 
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China (see A/68/PV.25).
the  steady 
rise  of  globalization  and 
information  technology,  international  migration  has 
grown  both  in  terms  of  frequency  and  in  terms  of 
the  number  of  immigrants,  reaching  232  million  at 
present.  Since  migration  and  development  are  closely 
linked, it is of the utmost importance that the General 
Assembly 
the  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
Indeed,  international  migration  has  made  tremendous 
contributions 
to  sustainable  social  and  economic 
development. It has mitigated the problem of aging in 
many  countries,  while  generating  over  $400  billion 
yearly  in  remittances,  thereby  contributing  to  world 
economic  development,  poverty  eradication  and  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
Thus,  given  that  some  may  be  tempted  to  close 
their doors for reasons of security, while others may be 
fiercely determined to take advantage of the benefits of 
migration, we are forced to acknowledge that there is 
no miracle cure for the phenomenon, but only realistic, 
pragmatic solutions to make migration a useful tool in 
promoting development. So that countries of origin and 
destination  can  both  be  winners,  a  balance  between 
the interests of stakeholders must be found. Moreover, 
the  Governments  of  the  countries  of  origin  and 
On the other hand, alongside migration, the world 
also  witnessed  the  rise  of  anti-immigrant  sentiments 
in  some  countries;  growing  transnational  criminal 
activities,  such  as 
illegal  migration  and  human 
trafficking; inadequate guarantees for immigrants’ basic 
rights and interests with regard to employment, housing, 
education and health care; and numerous challenges to 
their survival and development. In addition, the brain 
drain also negatively impacts the sustainable, economic 
and  social  development  of  countries  of  origin.  The 
14/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
international  community  should  consider  ways  and 
means to tap the positive energy that immigrants bring 
to  sustainable  development,  eliminate  the  negative 
effects  of  migration,  and  take  an  integrated  approach 
to policy implementation. In that regard, the delegation 
of China wishes to make the following comments and 
suggestions.
First,  the  development  of  all  countries  should  be 
promoted in order to resolve the issue of migration at its 
source. The fundamental cause of migration is uneven 
economic and social development across countries. The 
world cannot build sustainable development on the basis 
of  a  situation  in  which  the  wealth  of  some  countries 
keeps  increasing  while  other  countries  are  mired  in 
poverty and backwardness. Countries should embrace 
the concept of a common destiny and strive for common 
development,  thereby  fundamentally  eliminating  the 
negative factors in the area or international migration. 
Developed  countries  should  provide  financial  and 
technical  assistance 
in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals, thereby 
realizing common economic and social development.
to  developing  countries 
Secondly,  a  fair  and  objective  view  of  migration 
should  be  adopted  and  an  inclusive  environment  for 
immigrants  created.  Countries  should  take  a  rational 
view of the different cultures introduced by immigrants 
and give guidance to the population and the media on 
the proper treatment of immigrants. Certain countries 
should take effective measures to remove unreasonably 
restrictive immigration policies so as to ensure rational 
and orderly flows of migration. At the same time, they 
should  effectively  safeguard  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests of immigrants and facilitate their integration 
into  local  society  so  that  they  can  contribute  to  local 
development.
Thirdly, 
international  cooperation  should  be 
strengthened so that countries can share the migration 
dividend.  Migration  is  an  international  issue.  The 
international  community  —  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination  in  particular  —  should  make 
joint  efforts  to  strengthen  dialogue  and  engage  in 
cooperation under the principle of equality and mutual 
benefit, with a view to resolving practical difficulties 
in  migration  management,  achieving  two-way  flows 
of  trained  personnel  and  technology  and  sharing  the 
benefits  of  migration  among  all  countries  concerned. 
The international community should fully consider the 
important role of migration in sustainable development 
in the context of formulating the post-2015 international 
development agenda.
As  China  experiences  rapid  economic  and  social 
development, it is no longer just a country of origin and 
transit  for  migration,  but  is  also  gradually  becoming 
a  country  of  destination.  The  Chinese  Government 
attaches great importance to migration and the resulting 
opportunities and challenges. We are steadily perfecting 
entry and exit administration policies and relevant laws 
and regulations. We are working to protect the legitimate 
rights  and  interests  of  immigrants,  facilitate  normal 
personnel  flows  and  combat  human  trafficking  and 
illegal immigration activities. The Chinese Government 
is willing to strengthen exchanges and cooperation with 
other countries and international organizations on the 
issue of migration in a joint effort to promote normal 
population flows throughout the world so as to achieve 
common development and prosperity.
Mr.  Ndour  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation and I are very pleased to take part in today’s 
important meeting on migration, an important issue for 
developing countries in general, including my own.
Due 
the 
in 
rapid  growth 
My  country  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China. I am also pleased to associate 
myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of Benin on behalf of the least developed countries (see 
A/68/PV.25).
to 
the  global 
population  —  which,  according  to  United  Nations 
projections,  will  reach  9  billion  in  2030 —  economic 
imbalances,  social  challenges  and  other  development 
disparities  continue  to  make  international  migration 
an  issue  whose  parameters  we  must  control.  An 
assessment  of  the  phenomenon  must  be  carried  out, 
and  is  made  all  the  more  necessary  by  the  fact  that 
migration remains a vehicle of real opportunities both 
for  countries  of  origin  and  of  destination.  Migratory 
flows  bring  substantial  macroeconomic  benefits  that 
help increase the productivity of economies all across 
the board — countries of origin and of destination alike.
to 
increased consumption and the revitalization of trades 
and  jobs  that  have  been  abandoned  or  neglected, 
migratory flows provide a labour force and contribute 
considerably  to  balancing  the  population  growth  rate. 
To  countries  of  origin,  the  flows  offer  substantial 
potential  for  improving  the  well-being  of  populations 
For  countries  of  destination, 
in  addition 
13-50003
15/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
and  enhancing  growth.  Besides  the  external  benefits, 
migration generates remittances that may be equivalent 
to or greater than annual flows of official development 
assistance  (ODA),  standing  at  around  $351  billion 
in  2011  and  estimated  to  reach  $515  billion  in  2014, 
according to the World Bank.
For  Senegal,  as  an  example,  remittances  from 
Senegalese migrants, whose number exceeds 1 million 
nationals, were estimated in 2011 at 699.4 billion CFA 
francs, or 10.3 per cent of our gross domestic product in 
that year. For Senegal, that also stands at three times the 
level of ODA. Those flows, which are usually devoted 
to consumption and spending on health care, education, 
property  and  social  infrastructure,  contribute  at  the 
microeconomic level to improving the living conditions 
of populations and developing business. In other words, 
remittances are an important way of reducing poverty 
and are therefore significant in promoting stability and 
social equilibrium.
However,  due  to  a  lack  of  flows  geared  towards 
productive sectors, remittances have thus far had only 
a  minimal  impact  on  growth,  although  we  recognize 
that  they  tend  to  be  a  more  stable  source  of  funding. 
To  optimize  that  potential,  my  country  has  launched 
partnerships with a number of agencies and countries, 
including the United Nations Development Programme, 
the  European  Union,  France,  Spain  and  Italy.  Large 
projects  have  been  set  up  for  Senegalese  expatriates. 
Moreover,  the  support  programme  for  development 
solidarity  initiatives  in  cooperation  with  France  has, 
since 2006, assisted over 407 businessmen in priority 
sectors  of  activity  with  a  financial  volume  estimated 
at  more  than  6  billion  CFA  francs,  or  €9.1  million. 
Therefore, 
the 
development  of  their  countries  of  origin  is  certainly 
consistent  with  cooperation  for  development.  Besides 
such programmes and given their importance, it is vital 
that  the  conditions  for  remittances  made  by  migrants 
should  be  further  improved,  particularly  in  reducing 
the  related  costs  and  lifting  certain  obstacles  which, 
moreover, would reduce the amount of the flows falling 
into informal channels.
the  participation  of  migrants 
in 
In that regard, my delegation calls on the advisory 
structures  of  the  Africa-European  Union  Migration, 
Mobility  and  Employment  Partnership 
to  carry 
out  an  in-depth  study  of  that  request  and  look  into 
operationalizing the African Institute for Remittances 
established by the African Union in July 2012 during 
the  nineteenth  Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government.
While international migration constitutes a factor 
of  development,  violations  of  the  rights  of  migrants, 
losses  of  high-quality  human  resources  and  irregular 
migration remain real challenges. In terms of irregular 
migration,  we  will  have  to  better  pull  together  to 
eradicate the practice, which is the source of all kinds 
of  trafficking,  especially  drug  trafficking  and  illicit 
trafficking  in  migrants  and  persons.  In  that  respect, 
my  country  has  established  an  integrated  border 
management strategy to curb clandestine flows leaving 
the  Senegalese  coasts,  and  in  2005  we  adopted  a  law 
outlawing human trafficking.
Moreover, in the fight against that scourge, we have 
undertaken  actions  to  promote  migration  in  line  with 
legal standards and stabilize migratory flows. To those 
ends, we have established mechanisms to facilitate the 
admission, readmission, departure and voluntary return 
of workers, thereby limiting our country’s huge losses 
in  human  resources.  As  an  example,  in  Senegal  the 
proportion  of  migrants  conducting  economic  activity 
before their departure stood at 46 per cent in 2011, while 
the proportion of unemployed persons stood at 29 per 
cent.  Moreover,  for  the  period  1995-2005,  there  were 
678  emigrating  doctors,  or  51  per  cent  of  the  trained 
doctors in the country, and 695 nurses, or 27 per cent of 
nursing professionals.
In  order  to  tackle  this  issue  more  credibly,  we 
must continue to ensure that the rights of migrants are 
respected and that migrants are integrated and protected 
against  mistreatment.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
King  Mohammed  VI  of  Morocco,  who  has  taken  an 
important initiative for the benefit of illegal immigrants 
in the Sahara region. We take this opportunity to thank 
him. We appeal to all countries, in particular those of 
Western  Europe  and  North  America,  to  accede  to  all 
the relevant conventions.
For  all  these  reasons,  the  migratory  phenomenon 
remains a fundamental topic that needs to be addressed 
more  cogently.  Aside  from  security  concerns,  we 
should take a comprehensive approach to establishing 
common  and  rationalized  management  of  migration. 
While we commend the welcome initiative to convene 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and Development, which since 2006 has allowed us to 
bolster discussions on this topic, my delegation believes 
16/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
we  must  further  strengthen  cooperation  in  order  to 
bridge the remaining gaps.
concept  with  which  to  approach  the  varying  reasons 
underlying international migration in all its forms.
In that regard, any strategy must feed into a process 
that is flexible and dynamic that respects human rights 
and takes into account the specific interests of countries, 
such as inequality in development, in order to multiply 
the benefits and reduce the negative impact. To that end, 
it would be useful to integrate the issue into the post-
2015 development agenda with a comprehensive action 
plan that would emphasize the protection of migrants, 
improve the quality of statistical data, and promote the 
mobility of human resources in the wake of the relevant 
provisions of the Cairo Action Plan.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  strongly  reaffirms 
Senegal’s  commitment  to  investing  in  the  efficient 
management  of  migratory  flows,  and  calls  for  broad 
mobilization in that regard.
Mr. Yamazaki (Japan): At the outset, I would like 
to express my condolences to the families of the victims 
of the tragic incident in the Mediterranean.
I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  all  those 
who were involved in preparing for this meeting. I am 
especially  thankful  to  Mr.  Peter  Sutherland,  Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General on International 
Migration  and  Development;  Mr.  William  Swing, 
Director-General  of  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration;  and  the  Population  Division  of  the 
Department for Economic and Social Affairs.
Since the first High-level Dialogue on International 
Migration and Development was held in 2006, various 
discussions have taken place concerning international 
migration  and  development.  The  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development, which was formulated as a 
follow-up mechanism to the first High-level Dialogue, 
has made a special contribution to those discussions.
International  migration  occurs  in  many  different 
forms.  Those  include  not  only  voluntary  but  also 
involuntary  migration,  which  occurs  due  to  conflicts 
or  natural  disasters.  Therefore,  it  is  important  that 
we  take  into  due  account  the  reasons  underlying 
each  individual  migrant’s  journey  when  we  discuss 
international migration and development. The General 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  66/290,  on  human 
security,  in  September  2012.  Human  security  focuses 
on the particular circumstances of each individual and 
therefore promotes the protection and empowerment of 
all individuals. Therefore, we think it is an appropriate 
Japan  has  been  supporting  and  implementing 
various  programmes,  such  as  support  and  advocacy 
for  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  as 
well  as  victims  of  human  trafficking  in  Africa,  the 
Middle East and Asia, in cooperation with the relevant 
United Nations and international organizations. Those 
programmes  focus  on  strengthening  the  capacity  of 
communities through mechanisms such as the Human 
Security Trust Fund. Moreover, through both grant aid 
and technical assistance provided by Japan, we promote 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  management  of  national 
borders  by  helping  various  countries  to  establish  and 
strengthen their institutions of border and port control 
and  to  prevent  the  spread  of  organized  crime  and 
terrorism.
Human  trafficking  is  becoming  a  grave  and 
serious  concern.  Japan  developed  its  2009  action 
plan to combat trafficking in persons in December of 
that year in response to the perpetrators of this crime 
becoming 
increasingly  cunning  and  clandestine. 
Close  cooperation  between  countries  of  origin  and 
destination  countries  is  essential.  The  Government 
of  Japan  has  been  contributing  to  the  promotion  of 
information-sharing  on  human  trafficking  and  its 
prevention  both  bilaterally  and  multilaterally  through 
the Bali Process. The regional cooperative framework 
on human trafficking and transboundary crimes in the 
Asia-Pacific region is one such example.
Conflicts and disasters make the return of internal 
migrants  to  their  countries  of  origin  difficult.  It  is 
therefore  also  necessary  for  us  to  respond  to  those 
difficulties.  Japan  provides  assistance  through  the 
International Organization for Migration for the return 
of refugees to their home countries.
Capacity-building  by  strengthening  the  abilities 
of  individuals  is  essential  both  for  the  well-being  of 
international migrants and for the benefit of destination 
countries.  From  that  perspective,  Japan  has  been 
providing assistance for capacity-building in areas such 
as education and health.
The  nexus  of 
international  migration  and 
development is one of the most important issues for the 
international  community,  particularly  as  it  continues 
to  experience  the  effects  of  globalization.  Japan  will 
continue  to  participate  in  discussions  on  this  subject, 
13-50003
17/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
and  we  are  ready  to  actively  contribute  to  various 
international efforts in that regard.
Mr. Roet (Israel): On behalf of the Israeli people, 
I  would  like  to  begin  by  expressing  our  sincere 
condolences following the tragic events off the coast of 
Italy. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of 
the many victims. Yesterday’s terrible incident serves 
to underscore the importance of addressing the plight 
of migrants around the world.
The topic of migration speaks to the very essence 
and heart of the Jewish people. In the Torah, we read 
that  God  told  Abraham  that  his  offspring  would  be 
strangers in a strange land before entering the promised 
land. Our existence as Jewish people was born out of 
migration over 3,000 years ago. Throughout the course 
of  history,  the  Jewish  people  have  repeatedly  been 
exiled, uprooted and displaced.
The  plight  of  migrants  is  close  to  our  hearts. 
Today’s  debate  offers  an  opportunity  to  address  the 
many  valuable  contributions  that  migrants  can  offer 
their  host  countries.  As  workers,  they  bring  skills. 
As entrepreneurs, they create jobs. As investors, they 
bring capital. As individuals, they contribute to cultural 
diversity.
Three  years  after  Israel  became  independent,  it 
absorbed  many  hundreds  of  thousands  of  immigrants 
from the Middle East, North Africa and Europe — many 
of  whom  were  Holocaust  survivors.  One  of  those 
immigrants was my father, Haim Roet, who was born in 
Amsterdam in 1932. A child survivor of the Holocaust, 
he  witnessed  unspeakable  horrors  and  lost  two  of  his 
sisters and many in his family.
After  my  father  immigrated  to  Israel  in  1949, 
building  a  family  and  a  new  life  would  have  been  a 
sufficient  achievement,  a  sufficient  victory.  But  my 
father,  like  many  survivors  and  immigrants,  wanted 
more.  He  has  devoted  himself  to  commemorating  the 
victims  of  the  Holocaust  through  projects  like  “Unto 
Every Person There Is a Name”, a ceremony in which 
the names of victims are recited and remembered. He 
also founded non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
that promote human rights and community engagement, 
such as the Israeli Center for Social Justice and Tze’ela 
(the Citizen’s Team Action for Social Improvement).
Migrants  make  rich  and  lasting  contributions  to 
their communities. In the early 1990s, Israel opened its 
doors to one million Soviet refugees. Within 10 years, 
the number of new immigrants was close to one million. 
In just a few years, they have become leaders who have 
contributed to every area of Israeli society, particularly 
in politics, music, mathematics and the sciences.
In  the  1980s  and  1990s,  the  Israeli  Government 
supported the immigration of a large wave of immigrants 
from Ethiopia. Today, more than 36,000 Ethiopian Jews 
live in Israel.
The  absorption  of  immigrants  from  the  former 
Soviet  Union  and  Ethiopia  has  not  been  without  its 
challenges.  After  arriving  in  Israel,  they  faced  the 
economic and social hardships familiar to immigrants 
around  the  world.  But  in  addition  to  language  and 
cultural barriers, they were also forced to confront one of 
the most critical issues facing new migrants — finding 
decent work.
In  the  face  of  those  challenges,  Israel  developed 
a broad range of policies and initiatives to assist new 
immigrants.  We  created  an  absorption  basket  that 
offers  immigrants  financial  assistance  and  teaches 
them  Hebrew.  In  addition  to  those  tangible  benefits, 
immigrants  benefit  from  our  justice  system,  which 
ensures  the  rights  of  every  person  —  men,  women 
and  children  —  under  the  law.  Addressing  the  many 
challenges  migrants  face  requires 
the  efforts  of 
Government and civil society actors alike. Civil society 
plays  a  fundamental  role  in  assisting  migrants,  and 
Israel strongly believes that they are an important voice.
However,  there  are  NGOs  whose  voices  will  not 
be  heard  today.  Three  NGOs  —  one  British  and  two 
Israeli — were barred from participating in the present 
important  discussions.  It  is  time  to  eliminate  the 
no-objection practice that allows NGOs to be silenced 
anonymously and without cause. Silencing civil society 
may be the norm in some countries, but it should not 
be  allowed  at  the  United  Nations.  One  of  the  barred 
Israeli NGOs was Microfy, which provides assistance 
to  African  refugees  and  asylum-seekers,  many  of 
whom fled the genocide in Darfur. What micropolitical 
thinking  would  object  to  an  NGO  that  deals  with 
helping refugees from Darfur?
The  other  Israeli  NGO,  Center  for  International 
Migration  and  Integration,  advises  Governments  and 
NGOs around the world on migration and integration. 
The  exclusion  of  those  NGOs  was  clearly  a  result  of 
where they are based rather than of their valuable work. 
It  is  shameful  that  certain  delegations  use  the  United 
Nations as a platform to further their political agendas, 
particularly when it comes at the expense of migrants.
18/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
The  international  community,  together  with  civil 
society, must stand together with the world’s 214 million 
international  migrants.  Together,  let  us  reaffirm  the 
fundamental principle of the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights:  “All  human  beings  are  born  free  and 
equal in dignity and rights”.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  begin 
by  thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  organizing  our  important  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. I would also 
like to express my country’s support for the statement 
made by Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
The phenomenon of global migration is ancient and 
prompted by the need to find new sources of livelihood 
and security. There are so many reasons for it, including 
economic  and  political  insecurity.  Our  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
is being held seven years after the first such high-level 
dialogue and 19 years after the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development.  The  first  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
held  at  the  United  Nations  in  2006,  emphasized  the 
development aspects of international migration..
Today, we are exchanging ideas on the root causes 
of migration, including economic reasons, with poverty 
and unemployment being the main motivating factors. 
Migration  is  a  phenomenon  that  contributes  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  which  in  turn  will  reduce  the  number  of 
immigrants.  We  cannot  study  that  question  without 
thinking  about  the  countries  of  origin,  from  which 
large numbers of workers decide to depart because of 
their situation of poverty or need or insecurity. Thus, 
we  need  to  consider  the  challenges  inherent  in  the 
migration  issue  for  the  countries  of  origin,  countries 
of destination and countries of transit. We also need to 
look at remittances, the protection of rights and duties 
and the question of the regularization of migrants.
Libya is a country of origin and of transit, and we 
have  felt  the  negative  effects  of  migration,  because 
there  is  a  large  flow  of  migrants,  seeking  a  better 
standard of living, who spend months, and sometimes 
many years, in Libya while awaiting the opportunity to 
move to their ultimate destinations. Many people arrive 
in our country illegally, without legal documents, Libya 
then has to foot the bill, amounting to tens of millions 
of dollars, for immigrants or migrants in transit. Libya 
has limited economic resources to absorb those migrant 
workers.  There  are  over  1  million  migrants  in  our 
country who have been legalized and who contribute to 
our  development  projects.  They  send  remittances  and 
thereby contribute to development in their countries of 
origin.
Libya,  like  many  developing  countries,  is  subject 
to the brain drain, because thousands of our nationals, 
engineers,  physicians  and  other  specialists  left  Libya 
for developed countries under the Al-Qadhafi regime. 
By offering them decent jobs, the Government today is 
encouraging them to return to Libya, so that they can 
make their contribution to our development as soon as 
possible.
Ms. Lee (New Zealand): I would like to begin by 
joining  others  in  expressing  New  Zealand’s  sorrow 
at the loss of lives in Lampedusa and at other similar 
recent tragedies.
New  Zealand  welcomes 
the  opportunity 
to 
participate 
that 
immigration and development issues and their impact 
require strategic discussion at the international level.
this  Dialogue.  We  recognize 
in 
New  Zealand  is,  to  a  large  extent,  a  country  of 
migrants. More than 20 per cent of our population was 
born overseas and the New Zealand diaspora is equal to 
an extra quarter of our population. Right now we New 
Zealanders  are  facing  a  big  challenge  in  rebuilding 
Christchurch,  our  second-largest  city,  following  the 
earthquakes  of  2010  and  2011.  Immigration  will  play 
a  key  role  in  attracting  the  significant  number  of 
workers who will be required over the years to rebuild 
the city. Our focus in that area is on filling skill gaps 
and ensuring that migrants have the same employment 
rights and protections as New Zealanders.
New Zealand has a distinctive history of connections 
with  our  Pacific  neighbours,  especially  in  providing 
opportunities for people from Pacific island countries 
to  access  both  skilled  and  unskilled  jobs.  In  addition 
to  our  mainstream  immigration  policies,  we  have 
dedicated permanent immigration schemes for Pacific 
peoples from Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu and Kiribas.
Among  new  developments  since  the  High-level 
Dialogue  was  last  held,  New  Zealand  has  introduced 
a  recognized  seasonal  employer  scheme.  The  scheme 
is  recognized  internationally  as  a  best-practice  model 
for  managed  labour  migration  programmes.  Up  to 
8,000  people  annually  are  given  an  opportunity  to 
come to New Zealand to work in our horticulture and 
viticulture industries. When designing the scheme, we 
drew  heavily  on  the  experiences  of  other  countries, 
13-50003
19/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
particularly of Canada, with regard to managed seasonal 
circular  migration  programmes.  The  scheme  also  has 
a  strong  development  focus  and  contributes  to  New 
Zealand’s  broad  regional  objectives  of  encouraging 
Pacific  economic  development,  regional  integration 
and stability.
As  the  scheme’s  name  implies,  New  Zealand 
regulates  the  employers  as  well  as  the  migrants. 
Therefore,  in  order  to  participate,  seasonal  employers 
must demonstrate a high standard of employment and 
pastoral  care.  We  see  the  scheme  as  an  example  of  a 
win-win migration policy. It fulfils a labour need in a 
developed country and provides job opportunities and 
flows of remittances back to communities in developing 
countries. It also directly supports the horticulture and 
viticulture sector, which is worth NZ$5 billion a year to 
the New Zealand economy.
settlement 
strategy 
successful 
New  Zealand’s 
immigration  programme  also 
includes  a 
that 
encompasses  refugees,  among  other  groups.  We 
acknowledge that migration is a process that does not 
end when people reach our shores. It is important that 
migrants feel connected to New Zealand and make the 
most of their opportunities after their arrival in order to 
contribute to a shared national future.
New Zealand believes that an open dialogue between 
countries  provides  an  effective  way  of  addressing 
international  migration  issues  and  of  building  our 
shared approach for the post-2015 development agenda. 
We  are  pleased  to  be  participating  in  this  Dialogue, 
sharing our experiences and learning about the different 
approaches and models used in other countries.
Mr.  Bernardini  (Italy):  It  is  with  great  sorrow 
that  I  take  the  floor  today  after  the  tragedy  that  took 
place  last  night  off  the  shores  of  my  own  country,  in 
the waters surrounding the island of Lampedusa. The 
enormous  toll  of  the  tragedy  gives  us  a  sense  of  the 
magnitude of the disaster: 111 bodies recovered, more 
than  100  still  missing.  The  victims  include  many 
children,  women,  including  pregnant  women,  and 
men — all in search of a better future. Those images of 
horror linger in our minds as we stand here today. The 
significance of our presence is to prove the importance 
that the international community attaches to migration.
Today’s Dialogue is the first of a series of international 
endeavours  —  to  be  followed  by  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  beyond 
2014  and  the  post-2015  development  agenda  —  that 
collectively hold the promise of a genuine turning point 
in  migration  policies  and  development  cooperation. 
In that regard, Italy strongly supports the inclusion of 
migration issues in the post-2015 development agenda. 
At  the  national  level,  we  have  consistently  adopted  a 
migrant-centred strategy focused on the competences, 
resources  and  mobility  of  migrants  in  a  dynamic 
process.  Bearing  in  mind  the  relevant  role  played 
by  migrants  as  true  enablers  of  development,  Italy 
has  launched  a  number  of  bilateral  and  multilateral 
initiatives, including the Migration for Development in 
Africa programme, which we implement in partnership 
with  the  International  Organization  for  Migration. 
Such  programmes  have  been  used  as  showcases  by 
both the United Nations Development Programme and 
the  European  Union  in  the  context  of  the  European 
Commission-United  Nations  Joint  Migration  and 
Development Initiative.
International  mobility  has  always  been  an  issue 
of  key  concern  to  Italy,  itself  an  origin  country  of 
migrants,  where  it  is  perceived  as  a  decisive  factor 
of  social  and  cultural  enrichment.  There  are  so  many 
citizens of Italian origin worldwide who play relevant 
roles in their countries of residence in politics, academia 
and  scientific  and  artistic  fields.  In  our  own  country, 
a paradigm of such an osmotic contribution is offered 
by our Minister for Integration, who deeply regrets not 
being present here today, as well as by many important 
researchers, journalists, athletes and so on.
International mobility is a multiplier and a booster 
for economic growth. Not only are the 4 million Italian 
migrants  still  contributing  to  the  wealth  of  recipient 
countries,  but  the  foreign  community  residing  in 
Italy,  which  has  increased  significantly,  contributes  a 
remarkable 12 per cent to our gross domestic product. 
It goes without saying that those economic benefits are 
twofold, since both destination countries and countries 
of origin take advantage of remittances.
Deeply  convinced  that  the  economic  benefits 
related to migration should be further enhanced, Italy 
launched an international initiative to reduce the costs 
of transfers of migrant remittances from 10 per cent to 
5  per  cent  over  a  five-year  period,  the  so-called  5  by 
5 objective, which was adopted at the Group of Eight 
Summit  held  in  L’Aquila  and  extended  to  the  Group 
of 20 countries in 2011. We are strongly committed to 
facilitating  the  achievement  of  that  goal,  which  will 
grant migrants and their families a net income increase 
of up to $15 billion per year. At the national level, Italy 
20/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
has already succeeded in lowering the costs of migrant 
remittances from 10.2 per cent in 2008 to 7.3 per cent 
in July 2013. We urge all countries to join in that effort.
A  migrant-centred  approach  should  also  focus 
on  protecting  the  rights  of  migrants,  the  topmost  of 
our  priorities  in  this  field.  No  integration  is  possible 
without real and effective protection of human rights. 
Therefore, we must increase our efforts to help migrants 
at  risk,  especially  women,  children  and  persons  with 
disabilities, and engage vigorously to stop all forms of 
human trafficking. More cooperation is crucial to that 
end.  Preventing  those  “journeys  of  desperation  and 
death,” to quote our Head of State, is the responsibility 
of each and everyone of us: States of origin, transit and 
destination.
Better  coordination  among  all  United  Nations 
agencies and other relevant international organizations 
is  essential  if  we  want  to  achieve  an  effective  global 
approach to migration and development. In that regard, 
we appreciate the work of the Global Forum on Migration 
and Development, which has contributed to exchanges 
of best practices and the building of confidence among 
the stakeholders.
We  wish  to  underline  the  central  role  of  the 
International Organization for Migration as the leading 
agency  on  migration.  The  creation  of  new  structures 
would amount to a duplication of competences, which 
we strongly oppose.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that  it  is  up  to 
us  to  blaze  a  clear  trail  for  the  upcoming  years  and 
identify the best instruments of cooperation. The stakes 
could not be higher: the quality of our collective action, 
our capacity for action itself and, above all, the greater 
interest of all migrants.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt): I would like to first express, on 
behalf of the Government and people of Egypt, my deep 
condolences to the families and friends of the migrants 
who,  sadly,  passed  away  yesterday  off  the  island  of 
Lampedusa, Italy. That was yet another tragic accident 
that underscores the relevance of this Dialogue.
Egypt is pleased that international migration is once 
again being discussed at the United Nations at this high 
level, with all the relevant stakeholders. It is an issue of 
great importance and an integral part of the 1994 Cairo 
Programme of Action of the International Conference on 
Population  and  Development.  International  migration 
should also feature in our discussion in the run-up to 
the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda as 
a cross-cutting issue and enabler for the achievement of 
development in all its dimensions.
Migration  is  a  complex  phenomenon  —  it  is  also 
a  polarizing  one.  It  is  about  people,  development, 
human rights and cooperation. Those are fundamental 
issues  of  priority  for  all  of  us.  This  Dialogue  enables 
us to debate those interlinked issues and reach points 
of  convergence  on  how  to  enhance  the  benefits  of 
migration  and  effectively  address  its  challenges.  The 
declaration (resolution 68/4) agreed upon by consensus 
at  the  outset  of  this  Dialogue  is  a  significant  step  in 
that direction. We thank the delegation of Mexico for 
taking  the  initiative  in  starting  this  process.  I  would 
like to highlight the role played in that regard by former 
Permanent Representative of Mexico Luis-Alfonso de 
Alba, as well as to commend his successor, Mr. Jorge 
Montaño, and all the members of his delegation.
I should now like to highlight a few points. First, 
migration  offers  endless  opportunities  to  migrants 
and  their  families  and  to  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination.  Migrants  bring  with  them  their 
cultural diversity, their creative uniqueness and many 
invaluable  skills.  Migrant  workers  build  bridges  of 
cultural  understanding.  They  are  vectors  of  social, 
economic  and  cultural  change.  They  are,  ultimately, 
agents of progress.
Second, migration also brings about a multitude of 
challenges,  given  its  changing  patterns  and  emerging 
trends,  such  as  the  rise  in  North-South  migration 
and  the  increasing  instances  where  migrants  are 
caught  up  in  crises.  Migration  needs  to  be  addressed 
in  a  comprehensive  manner  that  does  not  reduce  it 
to  a  security  concern.  The  human  rights,  economic, 
cultural,  social  and  demographic  dimensions  have  to 
be taken into account. All stakeholders, including civil 
society,  the  private  sector,  trade  unions  and  migrants 
themselves, should be involved in the development of 
migration policies.
Third,  migrants  are  human  beings.  They  should 
not  forfeit  their  dignity  or  rights  at  the  borders  they 
cross.  Their  rights  must  be  protected  in  accordance 
with national legislation and the relevant international 
instruments. It is regrettable that many countries still 
fail  to  provide  adequate  protection  for  the  rights  of 
migrants.  There  is  an  urgent  need  for  all  countries 
to  ratify  the  relevant  conventions,  including  the 
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights 
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
13-50003
21/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocols,  in  particular  the 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  the 
Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, 
Sea and Air.
Fourth, greater efforts should be exerted to combat 
human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants. That 
remains a priority issue for all of us.
Fifth,  more  must  be  done  to  improve  the  public 
perception of migrants and integrate them into countries 
of destination. Too many migrants, particularly women 
and young people, are victims of acts of violence based 
on religious intolerance and xenophobia. We must put 
an end to that deplorable trend.
Sixth,  remittances  constitute  private  sources  of 
financing  that  do  not  replace  official  development 
assistance.  Although  remittances  play  an  important 
role in alleviating poverty in countries of origin and in 
supporting their development, the transfer costs remain 
too  high  and  should  be  reduced.  According  to  World 
Bank statistics, in 2012 Egypt was the biggest recipient 
of remittances in the Middle East, and the sixth-largest 
in the world, with more than $19 billion out of a little 
more than $400 billion sent to developing countries by 
migrants worldwide.
The  development  dimension  of  migration 
is 
broader, of course, than the issue of remittances. Egypt 
is  forging  stronger  ties  with  the  Egyptian  diaspora. 
Egyptians living abroad, especially young people, are 
now participating in shaping the future of their country. 
They were able, for the first time ever, to cast their votes 
in  elections,  namely,  those  held  after  the  25  January 
2011 revolution.
Seventh,  greater  assistance  should  be  provided 
to  those  forced  to  migrate  for  political  reasons.  I  am 
thinking  in  particular  of  the  Palestinian  people,  who 
are subject to compulsory migration as a result of the 
persistent policies of the Israeli occupation authorities.
Eighth  and  finally,  I  would  like  to  recognize 
the  significant  contribution  of 
International 
Organization for Migration. Cairo is proud to host its 
regional office for the Middle East and North Africa, and 
we look forward to continuing our close collaboration 
with  that  office.  We  also  invite  the  United  Nations 
to  explore  ways  of  strengthening  that  organization’s 
involvement in the work of the United Nations, given 
that agency’s standing as the leading intergovernmental 
organization in the field of migration.
the 
Mr. Šćepanović (Montenegro): Allow me, first of 
all, to express our deepest condolences to the families 
and countries of the victims of yesterday’s tragic events 
in our common Mediterranean Sea.
International migration, the permanent movement 
of  migrants  and  the  increase  in  their  number  remain 
a  focus  of  attention  for  most  countries  worldwide. 
Migration represents a basic and integral component of 
the economic and social fabric of every society and, as 
such, its effective regulation at the level of individuals 
and of society as a whole is of particular importance, 
including for my own country.
Fully  cognizant  of  that  fact,  Montenegro  has 
developed  institutional,  legislative  and  administrative 
structures for addressing the cross-cutting phenomenon 
that migration presents. Montenegro is a country that 
is  vulnerable  to  uncontrolled  migration  and  has,  at 
present  and  throughout  history,  experienced  all  three 
dimensions of migration. Poor economic conditions in 
the past caused Montenegro to be a country of origin 
for  migration.  Montenegro’s  geostrategic  position 
dictates  that  traditional  European  migratory  flows 
in  the  east-west  and  south-north  directions  cross  its 
territory,  thus  making  it  a  transit  country.  Moreover, 
economic growth, particularly in the field of tourism, 
has expanded the need for seasonal workers, who must 
come from outside Montenegro’s borders, mainly from 
countries in the region. The dissolution of the former 
Yugoslavia  and  the  scourge  of  war  also  caused  great 
population  influxes  into  Montenegro,  which  resulted 
in large numbers of internally displaced persons in my 
country.
For  all  of  those  reasons  —  and  factoring  in  the 
liberalization  of  the  visa  regime  with  the  European 
Union and overall economic and social conditions due 
to  which  my  country  has  become  a  final  destination 
of  migrants  —  it  is  obvious  why  Montenegro  needed 
to  develop  and  undertake  a  strategic  approach  to 
migration, one based on social and economic dimensions 
and on full respect for human rights and fundamental 
freedoms.
The 
for  managing 
migration lies with States. But to successfully address 
the  issue  of  international  migration  and  ensure  the 
implementation  of  effective  migration  policies  that 
contribute  to  development,  regional  and  international 
approaches and cooperation are required. Cooperation, 
dialogue  and  joint  and  coordinated  action  among 
all  stakeholders  —  including  States,  international 
primary 
responsibility 
22/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
organizations, civil society, the private sector, workers’ 
unions and migrant organizations — are prerequisites 
for  developing  comprehensive  and  balanced  national 
immigration agendas and eradicating illegal migration.
In  that  light,  Montenegro  actively  participates 
in  all  regional  efforts  and  initiatives  to  regulate 
migration. Our priorities and, at the same time, areas 
of  primary  concern  in  which  to  concentrate  our  joint 
efforts are effective border management and collecting, 
processing, analysing, using and exchanging statistical 
data on migrants at all levels.
to 
The  integration  of  migrants  at  the  local  and 
national levels is vital for achieving social and political 
stability  and  development  so  that  their  contributions 
to society are maximized. We must acknowledge that 
migration, when properly managed, makes significant 
contributions 
the  sustainable  development  of 
countries,  and  therefore  deserves  its  rightful  place  in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We  have  a  duty 
in  that  regard  to  direct  additional  and  more  decisive 
efforts  towards  bettering  the  lives  of  migrants  and 
ensuring their broader involvement and participation in 
the fields of education, social welfare, health care, and 
so on.
However,  the  full  and  successful  integration  of 
migrants can be achieved only by ensuring protection 
and respect for their human rights and freedoms; in other 
words, minimizing and eliminating potential abuses as 
well as the effects of discrimination, intolerance and the 
overall marginalization of migrants and their families, 
with special emphasis on women and children. In that 
vein, migrants must be afforded safe and secure labour 
standards and working conditions.
Let  me  conclude  by  stressing  that  it  is  in  the 
common interests of all countries of origin, transit and 
destination, as well as the millions of migrants across the 
globe, to ensure that international migration is managed 
in the most efficient, responsible and dignified way. In 
that way, we will ensure that our societies become more 
prosperous, diverse and resilient.
Ms. Tan (Singapore): At the outset, I join others in 
conveying my sincere condolences to those affected by 
the capsizing of the boat off the coast of Lampedusa, 
Italy,  yesterday.  That  tragic  incident  is  a  somber 
reminder  of  the  difficult  journey  that  many  people 
make in search of a better life abroad.
More  people  than  ever  are  living  abroad  today. 
Asia has seen the largest increase of migrants over the 
past decade. The Secretary-General’s report (A/68/190) 
notes  that  South-East  Asia,  which  includes  rapidly 
growing economies such as Singapore’s, experienced a 
sharp increase in the number of international migrants 
from 2000 to 2013. Against that backdrop, this timely 
meeting provides a useful platform to exchange views 
and experiences in dealing with migration issues.
Singapore values and appreciates the contributions 
of the many migrants in our community. A third of our 
workforce is from the migrant community, and the size 
of our foreign workforce has increased by 45 per cent, 
to 1.3 million, over the past five years. Our growth and 
development as a nation would not have been possible 
without  them.  They  make  important  contributions 
across all jobs and capacities, whether in our schools, 
corporations, factories, department stores, restaurants, 
hospitals or homes. Most Singaporeans are descendants 
of migrants, and so we celebrate their presence in our 
society.  Their  diverse  talents,  skills,  experiences  and 
knowledge  enrich  our  society.  In  turn,  migrants  have 
benefited from higher wages, productive employment, 
new  skills  and  a  safe  and  stable  environment  in 
Singapore.
We have put in place policies to promote the well-
being  of  migrants  who  are  working  in  Singapore  to 
ensure  that  they  are  treated  fairly.  Foreign  workers 
are  protected  under 
the  Employment  of  Foreign 
Manpower Act, and, among other things, employers are 
required to provide adequate food, rest and acceptable 
accommodation,  as  well  as  pay  wages  promptly. 
They  must  also  purchase  medical  insurance  to  cover 
in-patient care and day surgery and personal accident 
insurance.
Last year, we amended our legislation to improve 
the employment conditions of foreign domestic workers 
by  mandating  a  weekly  rest  day  with  the  option  of 
monetary  compensation 
thereof.  Beyond 
legislative safeguards, we have implemented a range of 
administrative, enforcement and educational measures 
to  protect  the  rights  of  migrant  workers,  taking  into 
account  our  specific  national  circumstances  and 
aspirations.
lieu 
in 
In  the  preparatory  events  held  in  the  lead-up  to 
the  Dialogue,  to  exchange  views  on  migration  and 
development,  a  common  refrain  echoed  by  Member 
States and civil society organizations was that migration 
should  be  a  matter  of  choice,  rather  than  necessity. 
Several  civil  society  organizations  highlighted  the 
primary  responsibility  of  Member  States  to  provide 
13-50003
23/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
decent  work  opportunities  for  their  citizens  and  to 
provide  for  the  valuable  contributions  their  diaspora 
could make if they return to their country of origin.
responsible 
Singapore  agrees  that  we  Member  States  are 
ultimately 
for  creating  decent  work 
opportunities for our citizens. We need to continue to 
invest  in  sound  economic  and  labour  policies  so  that 
our citizens have the right to choose to stay or to make 
the often difficult journey abroad in search of a better 
livelihood.
It is imperative for countries of origin, transit and 
destination  to  recognize  the  roles  they  have  to  play 
and  their  responsibilities  in  dealing  with  the  benefits 
and challenges of migration. Close cooperation among 
all countries would prevent more migrants, especially 
vulnerable  groups  such  as  women  and  children,  from 
falling  prey  to  errant  employment  agents,  people 
smugglers and human traffickers.
that  erode 
We  must,  together,  do  more  to  eliminate  those 
exploitative  practices 
the  benefits  of 
migration  and  undermine  its  impact  on  development. 
For  example,  countries  of  origin  should  work  with 
countries  of  destination  to  lower  the  debt  burden 
imposed  on  low-skilled  migrant  workers.  Migration 
should  also  be  facilitated  through  legal  channels.  It 
is  the  best  way  to  assure  the  migrants  of  their  rights 
and  to  protect  the  interests  of  Member  States,  while 
diminishing the scope for exploitation.
Singapore welcomes the convening of the Dialogue. 
A  better  appreciation  of  this  complex  issue  will  go 
a  long  way  towards  ensuring  that  we  maximize  the 
benefits  and  minimize  the  challenges  of  international 
migration.
Mr.  Messone  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French):  Gabon 
welcomes  the  convening  of  this  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
and expresses its gratitude to the Secretary-General.
Mine  is  a  country  of  both  transit  and  destination 
for migrants from diverse places. Gabon has benefited, 
in its development, from the contributions of migrants 
from  brother  and  friendly  countries  in  Africa  and 
around  the  world.  In  a  globalized  world,  migrations 
have accelerated, often with negative side effects such 
as  xenophobia,  racism,  discrimination  and  tragedies 
such  as  that  we  are  mourning  today  off  the  coast  of 
Lampedusa. My country sends its heartfelt condolences 
to the families of the victims.
On  the  occasion  of  this  second  Dialogue  on 
migration, our attention should focus on new challenges 
such  as  the  fate  of  illegal  migrants,  the  fight  against 
trafficking in migrants, fair remuneration for their work 
and  the  protection  of  weak  and  vulnerable  migrants, 
above all women, children and refugees.
It  is  recognized  today  that  migration  contributes 
to  the  development  of  countries  of  origin  as  much 
as  countries  of  destination.  Through  their  work  and 
remittances, migrants help reduce poverty and advance 
the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, particularly in the areas of health and education. 
Nonetheless,  migration  also  creates  a  paradox  that 
deserves  our  attention.  Qualified  migrant  labour  is 
a  non-negligible  asset  for  host  countries.  Migrants 
contribute  to  business,  to  job  creation,  to  investment, 
to  taxation  and  to  the  social  systems  of  destination 
countries.  However,  we  must  also  recognize  that  the 
emigration of qualified workers is a net loss for their 
countries  of  origin,  which  need  such  people  for  their 
own  development.  That  is  why  Gabon  has  always 
encouraged  programmes  that  support  the  return  of 
qualified migrants to their countries of origin.
The  foundation  of  the  migration  policy  of  my 
country is the Gabonese Constitution, which enshrines 
respect  for  the  rights  and  liberties  set  forth  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Our  policy 
is  also  based  on  the  international  conventions  to 
which we are party. The current priorities defined by 
His  Excellency  President  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba  stress 
the  better  integration  of  undocumented  foreigners  in 
our  country,  the  humane  management  of  clandestine 
immigration  and  the  strengthening  of  partnerships 
with migrants’ countries of origin and destination. The 
Gabonese Government has always tried to ensure that 
the  social  rights  of  migrants,  particularly  with  regard 
to health and education, are guaranteed. Of course, the 
right  to  work  is  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Gabonese labour code.
We have adopted a number of measures over the past 
few years. In 1986, the immigration code was adapted 
to the economic and social progress of the country and 
to  its  demographic  goals.  In  April  2004  we  adopted 
law  No.  009/2004,  which  guaranteed  the  protection 
of  vulnerable  migrants  and  refugees  and  ensured 
the  struggle  against  human  trafficking  and  against 
violence  directed  at  women  and  children.  In  January 
2014  we  implemented  the  passport  of  the  Central 
African Economic and Monetary Community, allowing 
24/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
the  free  movement  of  nationals  of  that  jurisdiction. 
And lastly, on 7 March 2013, we began a vast campaign 
to  regularize  the  status  of  undocumented  foreigners 
throughout the whole of our national territory. Gabon 
has  also  established  a  national  migration  council 
that  assists  the  Government  in  the  implementation  of 
policies. The emigration of Gabonese citizens has also 
led us to create an office for Gabonese abroad.
At the international level we are open to all forms of 
cooperation with a view to the concerted management 
of migratory flows, along the lines of the agreement we 
have signed with France. We are also open to cooperation 
for the implementation of the International Convention 
on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers 
and  Members  of  Their  Families.  Gabon  supports  the 
Moroccan  initiative  aimed  at  creating  an  African 
alliance  on  migration  and  development.  At  the  same 
time, we are mindful of the need to respond to the new 
challenge  posed  by  migrations  arising  from  climate 
change.
Our action at the end of this debate must focus on 
strengthening the rights of all migrants, the protection 
of migrants in situations of distress, the compilation of 
statistical data on the actual situation of migrants, the 
integration of migration issues into our national action 
plans,  and  strengthening  dialogue,  cooperation  and 
cohesion at all levels to benefit migrants.
To  conclude,  my  country  would  like  to  commend 
the commitment of the Secretary-General to promoting 
the rights of migrants. Similarly, Gabon commends the 
role  of  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
and the efforts of the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development. Gabon would like to see migration taken 
into  account  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
which we have begun to discuss.
Mr. Mukerji (India): At the outset, let me convey, 
on behalf of India, our deep condolences at the tragic 
loss of life of migrants off the shore of Lampedusa in 
Italy.
I am honoured to participate in this discussion on 
the  important  issue  of  international  migration  and  its 
linkages  with  development  under  the  auspices  of  the 
General  Assembly.  We  hope  that  this  Dialogue  will 
help us move forward in advancing the global discourse 
on international migration in the context of the global 
economy and development.
My full statement is being circulated. In the interest 
of time, I am speaking from a shortened version.
The  globalized  world  we  live  in  is  critically 
dependent on the mobility and flow of human resources. 
It  is  important  that  international  migration  be  a  part 
of  the  global  economic  discourse  and  development 
paradigm.
India  is  one  of  the  leading  countries  of  origin, 
destination and transit for international migration. Over 
centuries, our people have travelled to distant corners of 
the globe and have made enormous contributions to the 
receiving societies. Today more than 25 million people 
of Indian origin live overseas, and they have made us 
proud of their contributions in the countries where they 
live and work. We celebrate their achievements every 
year on 7 January, which we call the Day of the Overseas 
Indian. On the other hand, our composite culture, which 
prides  itself  on  its  diversity,  has  attracted  millions  to 
our fold as well.
India  favours  a  holistic  approach  to  international 
migration,  one  premised  on 
the  developmental 
paradigm of migration that is sensitive to the national 
circumstances  of  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination  and  that  seeks  to  maximize  the  mutually 
beneficial  nature  of  international  migration  while 
reducing its negative effects.
Migration 
continues 
to 
to 
contribute 
the 
augmentation  of  capacities  and 
intellectual  and 
institutional  resource  bases,  as  well  as  to  the  skilled 
manpower  supply,  in  destination  countries.  Many 
developed  economies  have  greatly  benefited  from  the 
talent  of  migrants,  including  in  academia,  business, 
research and innovation. Greater openness and political 
willingness are therefore needed in developed countries 
to allow freer movement of people across their national 
boundaries.
Our  approaches  to  migration  must  be  uniform 
and consistent, while acknowledging that policies and 
solutions for dealing with international migration will 
differ according to the different national circumstances 
of  countries.  We  must  also  ensure  that  migrants  are 
provided  opportunities  to  harness  their  full  potential, 
which  will  benefit  not  only  migrants  themselves  but 
also their destination countries.
Coming from India, which in 2012 received nearly 
$70  billion  worth  of  remittances  from  migrants,  I 
am  well  aware  that  remittances  from  international 
migrants  contribute  to  development  in  the  countries 
of origin. They are often critical for the livelihoods of 
the families of migrant workers. However, remittances 
13-50003
25/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
are not a substitute for official development assistance 
(ODA)  or  other  forms  of  development  financing,  as 
is  often  suggested.  International  commitments  on 
ODA and development financing cannot be diluted on 
account of remittances.
We  need  to  provide  greater  policy  support  at  the 
international level to the issue of short-term migration, 
in particular on issues related to portability of pensions 
and social security contributions. We must also focus 
our  attention  on  the  temporary  movement  of  natural 
persons to supply services, that is, under Mode 4 of the 
General Agreement on Trade in Services, where there 
is an urgent need for liberalization and simplification 
of procedures.
Our  endeavour  should  be  to  realize  a  humane, 
orderly  and  mutually  beneficial  process  of  migration. 
A  clear  recognition  that  international  migration  is  a 
win-win opportunity is therefore essential.
Mr.  Kyaw  Tin  (Myanmar):  First  of  all,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  express  our  deepest  condolences 
for the loss of life in yesterday’s tragic incident off the 
coast of Italy.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25).
We  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report on the important issue of international migration 
and development (A/68/190). My delegation welcomes 
the agenda laid out in that report to address the challenges 
and  make  migration  a  catalyst  for  development.  The 
recommendations deserve our careful consideration.
clearly 
contributes 
to 
in 
As  migration 
that  Member  States 
the 
socioeconomic  life  of  migrant  worker  households 
in  many  developing  countries,  my  delegation  shares 
the  view  expressed 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report 
should  mainstream 
migration  into  national  development  plans,  poverty 
reduction strategies and relevant sectoral policies and 
programmes. Also at the global level, migration should 
be  intelligently  integrated  into  the  framework  of  the 
post-2015 development agenda. We must put our heads 
together on how best to integrate migration aspects into 
that agenda.
In  order  to  address  the  challenges  of  migration, 
especially  eliminating  the  exploitation  of  migrant 
workers, we must encourage channels of legal migration 
and awareness-raising, as illegal migrants are prone to 
falling victim to exploitation and human trafficking.
With  its  estimated  3  million  overseas  migrant 
workers, Myanmar is one of the source countries facing 
both  the  challenges  and  opportunities  of  migration. 
Accurate data and information on migration flows are 
difficult to obtain due to the irregularity of patterns of 
migration, yet the Government is focusing its attention 
on promoting and protecting the welfare of our migrant 
workers.  The  Government,  with  the  cooperation  of 
host  countries,  has  been  helping  migrant  workers  in 
neighbouring countries by issuing temporary passports 
to  make  them  legal  and  to  allow  them  to  enjoy  the 
labour rights they are entitled to. Moreover, migration 
and labour migration policies are being drafted for the 
safe migration of our citizens.
International  migration  contributes  positively  to 
the  economic  development  of  host  countries,  source 
countries and even transit countries. That is especially 
true  for  developing  countries,  which  benefit  not  only 
from  remittances,  but  also  from  the  technical  know-
how  and  entrepreneurial  experience  gained  by  their 
migrant workers aboard.
Myanmar 
is  undergoing 
rapid  political  and 
socioeconomic  transformation.  As  the  country  gains 
momentum in its reform process, we are hopeful that 
the  employment  opportunities  resulting  from  foreign 
investment  will  attract  our  overseas  expatriates  and 
migrant workers back to the country. We are confident 
that migrants can play an important role in promoting 
trade  and  investment  through  their  financial  capital, 
business  networks,  knowledge  and  skills.  Thus,  it 
is  expected  that  migrant  workers  will  become  one  of 
the  key  driving  forces  behind  future  socioeconomic 
development of the country.
In  executing  economic  policies  and  programmes, 
it  is  essential  for  a  country  to  acquire  reliable  data 
and information about its own population and its new 
trends, especially in terms of migration. We will be able 
to  produce  the  actual  figures  related  to  international 
migration  after  completion  of  our  2014  nationwide 
census,  which  is  scheduled  to  be  launched  early  next 
year.
The Government has made or improved regulations 
for more convenient transfer of migrants’ remittances, 
which are an important source of income for households 
in Myanmar. We must also formulate relevant policy to 
26/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
encourage the effective use of remittances in investment 
or in doing business.
With protection of its migrants in mind, Myanmar 
has joined the International Organization for Migration 
(IOM)  and  has  strengthened  its  cooperation  with 
international  organizations  in  that  area.  We  have 
benefited from assistance rendered by IOM by way of 
the safe and orderly return of our nationals who were in 
distress overseas for various reasons.
We  fully  appreciate  the  important  role  played 
by  the  United  Nations  in  highlighting  the  positive 
aspects  of  migration  and  bringing  out  its  potentials 
for  development.  This  High-level  Dialogue  offers 
opportunities 
the 
multidimensional  aspects  of  international  migration 
and  development.  In  concluding,  I  wish  to  express 
our  hope  that  our  deliberations  will  produce  tangible 
results to address the challenges of migration in a more 
systematic way.
to  deepen  understanding  of 
Mr. Grima (Malta): Let me begin by joining others 
in expressing our deepest condolences to the families 
of those who tragically lost their lives yesterday off the 
coast of Lampedusa.
We  are  pleased  to  participate  in  this  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
as we consider migration a priority issue.
We would like to align ourselves with the statement 
delivered  by  Commissioner  Cecilia  Malmström  on 
behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
(see  A/68/PV.25).  While  doing  so,  we  would  like  to 
make the following additional remarks in our national 
capacity.
The  High-level  Dialogue’s  main 
theme  of 
identifying concrete measures with a view to enhancing 
the benefits of international migration while reducing its 
negative implications is timely, in view of global events 
over the past few years. In recent years, propelled by 
the process of globalization, migration has taken on a 
new dimension. Indeed, never before has the migration 
and development nexus and the need to strengthen the 
synergies between the two been more important.
The  Government  of  Malta  believes  that  to  secure 
development  from  migration,  it  is  crucial  to  ensure 
that  such  migration  is  well  managed  and  takes  place 
via  legal  means,  whereby  movement  is  transparent 
for  the  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination. 
Migrants  must  be  able  to  travel  with  full  knowledge 
of their rights, without fear or coercion, and with their 
future prospects as a clear goal. Development-oriented 
actions are also essential to addressing the root causes 
of  migratory  flows  by  generating  opportunities  and 
economic  activity  in  the  countries  of  origin,  thus 
lessening the propensity to migrate.
Malta also has its own emigrant population living 
beyond its shores, which has been a source of economic 
and  social  growth  for  the  communities  in  which  they 
have settled as well as for Malta. The Government of 
Malta makes every effort to maintain a close bond with 
the  Maltese  diaspora,  ensuring  that  they  are  proud 
and  responsible  representatives  of  Malta.  The  key  in 
that discourse is the strong bond that the Government 
maintains  with  the  Maltese  diaspora,  with  the  aim  of 
promoting the highest level of cooperation between the 
Maltese emigrant communities and their host countries, 
in full compliance with the laws and customs of those 
lands.  That,  we  believe,  is  a  fundamental  ingredient 
that ensures  that migrant communities can  serve as  a 
motor for development wherever they settle.
Migration  offers  opportunities  and  hope  for 
many but, for those same reasons, is often a source of 
abuse. That is why we cannot talk about migration and 
development without addressing the related challenges. 
Malta retains a strong and long-standing commitment 
to  help  those  who  are  in  need  of  protection  and  has 
always  upheld  its  moral  and  legal  duty  to  protect 
genuine  refugees  and  those  entitled  to  other  forms  of 
protection  and  humanitarian  assistance,  as  provided 
for under international law. However, the rights of such 
individuals  must  not  be  undermined  by  international 
criminal  organizations  that  exploit  the  plight  of  such 
people for illicit financial gain.
Malta’s geographical location is at the crossroads of 
migratory flows, particularly from the South. Malta has 
experienced heavy influxes of irregular migration from 
North  Africa  since  2002.  Since  then,  the  number  of 
irregular immigrant arrivals has remained consistently 
high. Thus far in 2013, 1,692 immigrants have already 
reached Malta irregularly, with almost 1,000 arriving in 
July alone. That demonstrates that irregular migration 
to  Malta  continues  to  be  a  major  challenge.  Almost 
all  of  those  who  reached  Malta  irregularly  proceeded 
to  apply  for  international  protection,  and  the  asylum 
recognition  rate  in  Malta  has  consistently  exceeded 
50 per cent over the past years, in view of the situation 
in  the  countries  from  which  those  asylum-seekers 
originate, particularly the Horn of Africa.
13-50003
27/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
that 
Malta 
remains  convinced 
irregular  migration  needs 
international 
cooperation  on 
to  be 
strengthened.  While  the  Maltese  delegation  considers 
that  legal  migration  benefits  countries  of  both  origin 
and  destination,  it  wishes  to  highlight  that  irregular 
migration undermines legal migration policies, further 
exposing  migrants  to  situations  of  exploitation  and 
even, in certain regional scenarios, to the risk of loss of 
life in the desert or at sea, notwithstanding the efforts 
of the authorities concerned to prevent such loss of life.
In  view  of  those  considerations,  the  Maltese 
delegation is not satisfied with the declaration adopted 
at this High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and  Development  (resolution  68/4),  which  should 
have  reaffirmed,  in  no  uncertain  terms,  the  duty  of 
readmission  of  a  country’s  own  nationals  irregularly 
staying in other States, with a view to sending a message 
refuting  the  viability  of  irregular  migration.  In  our 
view, readmission policies are a prerequisite for well-
managed  migration,  and  we  recall  that  States  should 
respect  their  obligations  under  international  law  to 
readmit their own nationals and to take all appropriate 
measures  in  that  respect  while  protecting  the  human 
rights of the migrants involved.
Allow  me  to  conclude  with  a  final  thought  on 
the  subject  of  the  relationship  between  migration  and 
development.  The  aspiration  of  host  countries,  as 
well  as  of  countries  of  origin  and  transit  countries, 
to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  development  resulting  from 
migration hinges on various factors, two of which the 
Government of Malta believes to be fundamental. First, 
countries must work together to coordinate their efforts 
and  share  common  burdens,  so  as  to  share  the  fruits 
of human activity resulting from migration. Secondly, 
development,  like  wealth,  cannot  be  engineered  by 
countries  or  organizations.  Their  role  should  be  that 
of providing a safe and stable environment that allows 
their  citizens,  as  well  as  migrants,  to  reach  their  full 
economic and social potential.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago): At the outset, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  joins  others  in  extending  our 
deepest condolences to the families of those who died 
in  yesterday’s  unfortunate  tragedy  that  took  place  off 
the Italian island of Lampedusa.
Trinidad and Tobago wishes to align itself with the 
statements made by the representative of Fiji on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and the representative of 
Cuba on behalf of the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States (see A/68/PV.25).
We  are  of  the  view  that  this  meeting  is  most 
relevant  and  timely,  given  the  great  international 
focus — and to some degree anxiety — over the nature 
and consequences of migration and, more specifically, 
its  development-related  impacts  on  both  source  and 
destination  countries.  Indeed,  managed  migration  has 
been identified as one of our nine national priorities for 
the post-2015 scenario.
Once 
a 
dubbed 
country” 
“rainbow 
by 
Archbishop Desmond  Tutu,  Trinidad  and Tobago  has, 
from its inception, been a country of origin, transit and 
destination for migrants, and is therefore home to the 
descendants  of  migrants  from  Africa,  India,  China, 
Europe, Syria and South America, among other places, 
all  of  whom  have  contributed  to  building  our  nation 
and  to  our  sustainable  development.  For  many  years, 
migrants have also come to Trinidad and Tobago from 
within the Caribbean region.
Significant oil and natural gas resources, a world-
class  petrochemical  industry,  high  levels  of  foreign 
direct investment, an expanding tourism industry and 
relatively  good  levels  of  economic  stability  over  an 
extended period have heightened Trinidad and Tobago’s 
attractiveness  as  a  transit  point  for  migrants  heading 
north  and  as  a  final  destination  for  migrants  seeking 
better economic and professional opportunities.
Recognizing the importance of the nexus between 
labour,  migration  and  development,  the  Government 
of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  implemented  structured 
labour  programmes  to  encourage  the  immigration  of 
qualified  migrants  seeking  to  reside  and  work  in  our 
country. Such programmes have, for example, brought 
health  professionals  from  countries  in  South  Asia, 
Cuba, Nigeria and Ghana to come and reside and work 
in  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  they  continue  to  make 
valuable  contributions  to  the  operation  of  our  health 
sector. Skilled nationals of China also work in our local 
construction industry.
The  increase  in  labour  migration  to  our  twin 
island  republic,  Tobago,  can  be  seen  in  the  growing 
requests for and issuance of work permits. According 
to our records, 18,083 such permits were granted in the 
past  three  years  alone,  in  particular  to  citizens  of  the 
United States, China, India, the Philippines, the United 
Kingdom, Canada and Venezuela.
At  the  same  time,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  like 
many  of  our  regional  neighbours,  has  witnessed  the 
outward  migration  of  many  of  our  skilled  and  highly 
28/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
educated nationals to developed countries such as the 
United States, European countries and — increasingly, 
in  recent  times  —  Asian  countries.  Many  of  those 
emigrants  seek  opportunities  to  apply  their  skills  in 
an  environment  that  affords  seamless  access  to  the 
most advanced technologies with globally competitive 
remuneration. That includes the migration of our skilled 
workers  from  our  over  100-year-old  energy  sector  to 
other countries to assist in the development of their oil 
and gas industries.
While  that  outward  migration  contributes  to  our 
economy  through  remittances  and  provides  a  vibrant 
market for cultural exports, such as music, it presents 
particular challenges, as it represents a “brain drain” at 
the national level. That common experience within the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) contributed to the 
creation of the CARICOM Single Market and Economy 
in  2006  to  facilitate  the  free  movement  of  persons 
within  our  region.  As  a  significant  number  of  our 
citizens live abroad, we are also turning our attention 
to finding ways to encourage our diaspora to contribute 
to our national development.
Cognizant  of  the  need  to  effectively  manage 
international migration and benefit from its advantages, 
Trinidad and Tobago has been engaged in cooperation 
with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), 
the  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  (ACP)  States  and 
the United Nations Population Fund on various related 
capacity-building initiatives aimed at developing data-
collection capacities and mainstreaming migration into 
our development planning. In particular, Trinidad and 
Tobago  was  a  pilot  country  in  the  IOM  Data  Sharing 
Mechanism  Project  and  the  ACP  Migration  Facility, 
which  were  designed  to  assist  selected  countries  in 
mainstreaming  migration  into  development  planning. 
That also led to the convening of the National Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development,  held  approximately 
one  month  ago,  which  focused  on  the  themes  of  this 
year’s High-level Dialogue.
Nonetheless, while some progress has been made, 
we acknowledge that further development of capacities 
is  required.  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s  data-collection 
capacities for that purpose, like that of many countries, 
are  still  limited.  We  are  therefore  not  yet  able  to 
provide  adequate  and  up-to-date  information  on  the 
movement of persons across our borders, which would 
contribute  to  our  migration  management  initiatives. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  further  partnerships  and 
technical  assistance  to  facilitate  the  improvement  of 
such systems.
Additionally,  the  Government  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  has  undertaken  to  strengthen  the  relevant 
institutional  frameworks  in  order  to  maximize  the 
benefits  that  can  be  derived  from  migration  and 
ensure  the  safe  and  orderly  movement  of  persons. 
Those  steps  include  the  design  of  a  national  labour 
market information system to collect migration-related 
statistics; the ratification and implementation of various 
relevant international instruments; and discussions on 
the development of a labour migration policy, a diaspora 
policy, a population policy and a national immigration 
policy.
Trinidad and Tobago commends the presidency for 
the organization of this meeting, as well as the Global 
Forum on Migration and Development and the Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General on Migration 
and all relevant actors for their work on those matters.
We also wish to applaud the efforts of the Mexican 
Government in facilitating the achievement of consensus 
on  the  outcome  document  of  the  meeting  (resolution 
68/4). We believe that that is an important signal of the 
agreement on the part of the international community 
to  give  due  attention  to  the  issue  of  migration  and 
development.
Mr. Arias (Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We support, in addition, concrete outcomes of the 
process  and  look  forward  to  working  together  with 
partners at the national, regional and international levels 
to address the challenges associated with migration, to 
develop and improve strategies to maximize its benefits 
and to guarantee that the human rights of all migrants 
are protected in the process.
Mrs.  Pucarinho  (Portugal):  This  event  is  taking 
place  in  a  very  different  international  context  from 
the  one  during  the  first  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development,  in  2006. 
We  are  now  at  a  crucial  moment  in  the  continuum  of 
discussions  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). Indeed, globalization has had a huge impact 
on  today’s  migratory  movements.  That,  in  turn,  has 
led  to  profound  demographic  transformations  in  our 
societies.  The  impacts  of  the  recent  economic  crisis 
have reinforced that reality. The changes have required 
new forms of dialogue and international cooperation to 
13-50003
29/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
be developed at the national, regional and international 
levels.
According  to  statistics  from  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration,  the  total  number  of 
international migrants has increased in the past 10 years, 
and  today,  3.1  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  is 
made  up  of  migrants.  The  migration  profile  keeps 
changing,  and  migration  is  no  longer  a  phenomenon 
where people migrate only from developing countries 
to developed countries. We are increasingly witnessing 
movements  from  so-called  developed  societies  to 
emerging  economies,  bringing  forth  new  challenges 
and  opportunities 
innovative  policy 
responses.  South-South  migration  movements  are 
also  an  important  area  for  analysis  and  discussion, 
as  approximately  60  per  cent  of  all  global  migration 
occurs among developing countries.
that  require 
has 
become 
a  more 
Migration 
complex 
phenomenon than in the past and intersects with a wide 
variety  of  areas  and  issues,  such  as  employment  and 
unemployment, labour mobility, population imbalances, 
exploitation, human trafficking, gender, human rights, 
climate  change,  remittances  and  “brain  drain”,  which 
are  now  recognized  as  being  interlinked  with  the 
agenda  of  international  migration  and  development. 
Those  changing  dynamics  and 
interrelationships 
with  other  themes  raise  additional  challenges  for 
decision-makers  all  over  the  world,  requiring  a  more 
holistic  and  multisectoral  approach  to  international 
migration  and  greater  coherence  between  migration 
and development policies. The High-level Dialogue is 
an important opportunity, alongside the Global Forum 
on Migration and Development, for Governments and 
other stakeholders to explore the linkages and promote 
positive discussions on sensitive issues.
can 
Portugal  fully  recognizes  that,  when  managed 
effectively,  migration 
substantially  benefit 
both  countries  of  origin  and  those  of  destination,  as 
well  as  migrants  themselves,  and  thus  contribute  to 
development. In that context, Portugal has adopted and 
developed  public  policies  on  immigrant  integration 
with good results for migrants living in our country and 
with a positive impact on Portuguese society as a whole. 
Those policies enjoy a very high degree of commitment 
and acceptance at the national level.
In fact, migrants contribute to economic growth and 
human  development  in  both  home  and  host  countries 
and enrich societies through cultural diversity, fostering 
understanding and respect among peoples, cultures and 
societies. Indeed, exploring how diaspora communities 
can be better integrated into our society and how they 
can  better  contribute  to  development  in  their  home 
countries is of great interest to us.
Following a broad-based debate with stakeholders, 
Portugal adopted its second action plan for the integration 
of immigrants. The plan involves lines of action in a wide 
variety  of  sectors  to  effectively  promote  integration, 
including  employment,  health  and  education,  as  well 
as themes that are traditionally related to immigration, 
such as family reunification. The national action plan is 
a reference for the Government and for administrations 
at  the  local,  regional  and  national  levels,  as  well  as 
for  civil  society,  to  develop  more  specific  initiatives, 
including  in  terms  of  secure  long-term  residence, 
labour  market  mobility,  the  recognition  of  foreign 
qualifications and non-discriminatory access to health 
and education by migrants.
The  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants 
remains a cross-cutting policy priority for Portugal. All 
means and efforts have to be mobilized to combat all 
forms of smuggling and human trafficking, as well as 
the various kinds of exploitative employment.
I take the opportunity to express my heartfelt sorrow 
at  the  tragic  loss  of  life  off  the  coast  of  Lampedusa 
yesterday. My sympathy goes to the grieving families 
of the victims.
Despite  the  many  benefits  of  migration,  the 
protection  of  migrants  remains  a  very  timely,  urgent 
and  growing  human  rights  challenge.  Human  rights 
violations  against  migrants,  including  the  denial  of 
access to fundamental economic and social rights, are 
still  often  closely  linked  to  discriminatory  laws  and 
practices and to deep-seated attitudes of prejudice and 
xenophobia against migrants.
Portugal  has  developed  a  legal  and  institutional 
framework  to  ensure  safe  and  secure  migration  and 
the protection of migrants’ rights, with special support 
for the most vulnerable among them. My country has 
also successfully implemented measures on migration 
including  assisted  voluntary  return 
management, 
and  reintegration,  efforts 
trafficking, 
migration  and  development,  labour  migration  and,  as 
already  mentioned,  integration.  One  cannot  separate 
discussions  on  migration  from  the  broader  human 
rights perspective. That approach is consistent with the 
interpretation  of  human  rights  principles  and  norms 
consecrated  in  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil 
to  combat 
30/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
and Political Rights and the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
An approach aiming at a more coherent integration 
between migration and development also means having 
the human dimension at the centre of our concerns, with 
a  view  to  contributing  to  societies  that  are  more  just, 
dignified and equitable. The United Nations family is 
now reflecting on the future development agenda, and 
we  must  recognize  that  important  achievements  have 
been made — as far as the MDGs are concerned.
Nevertheless,  massive  challenges  still  persist, 
particularly in fighting poverty and ensuring sustainable 
prosperity and well-being worldwide. Migration and its 
related  topics  must  be  part  of  the  discussions  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  The  challenges  are 
truly  universal  and  require  a  unified  and  interrelated 
framework, and particular attention should be given to 
the poorest and most fragile countries. Finally, I would 
like  to  align  my  statement  with  that  made  earlier  on 
behalf of the European Union and its member States.
Mr. Lima (Cabo Verde) (spoke in French): At the 
outset, allow me to express my Government’s sympathy 
for the people who died in the tragedy off the coast of 
Lampedusa.  I  would  like  to  express  my  condolences 
to the families of the victims involved in such a tragic 
event.
I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
which recalls the important need for a periodic review 
of  our  policies  and  actions  on  that  sensitive  and 
delicate  subject.  Migration  based  on  people’s  seeking 
better  living  conditions  has  played  and  continues  to 
play an essential role in the economic fate of nations, 
the  rapprochement  of  peoples  and  the  advancement 
of  civilizations.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/68/190)  on  the  subject  provides  us  with  valuable 
information  and  relevant  analysis.  Its  programme  of 
action  also  offers  concrete  ways  to  improve  bilateral 
and  international  cooperation  and  to  reduce  negative 
practices in that area.
demonstrated;  it  is  recognized  everywhere  and  can 
be  verified.  It  plays  a  role  in  the  growth  of  both  the 
countries of origin and the countries of destination and 
contributes to the cultural strengthening and flowering 
of  societies.  Migration  is  therefore  an  indispensable 
part of the human condition.
Currently, owing to the fact that globalization has 
been more political than social and that conflicts persist 
in  various  parts  of  the  world,  migration  sometimes 
tends  to  transmit  a  troubled  vision  of  reality.  That 
is  confirmed  when  one  follows  the  news  about  the 
numerous tragedies on land and at sea that result from 
uncontrolled  and  unregulated  migration.  It  is  usually 
seen  as  a  common  threat  and  rarely  as  a  reality  that 
we  have  to  focus  on  and  deal  with  together.  The  fact 
that barriers of all types transform some regions of the 
world into fortresses with borders that often cannot be 
crossed should suffice to convince us.
Certainly, nobody has to receive all the misery in the 
world, as we have increasingly heard it said in various 
political  circles.  However,  the  fact  that  hundreds  of 
people can drown while trying to pursue their dreams 
in the twenty-first century is not only a shame, as Pope 
Francis  said,  but  also  an  unacceptable  event  for  the 
human conscience. The terrible tragedy of Lampedusa 
reminds us that young people today, as well as women 
and  children,  from  areas  of  turbulence  and  poverty, 
despite  all  the  dangers,  despite  all  the  barriers,  hope 
to find a better future or even just to find work or the 
means for survival. Nothing can stop them because they 
do not have much to lose. They will renounce neither 
their  dreams  nor  the  will  to  succeed.  They  represent 
a force, as Victor Hugo said, that cannot be stifled or 
stopped. So we must deal with the issue together, and 
all decisive actions should be pooled in a coordinated 
fashion.  If  there  is  an  area  in  which  multilateralism 
has real meaning, it is that one. We believe, as others 
have said, that it is time to agree on a global, long-term 
strategy  to  manage  migration  and  the  ever-increasing 
globalized  and  interdependent  world  where  unilateral 
action is of little use.
We would like to take this opportunity to congratulate 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  and  the 
International Labour Organization on their praiseworthy 
activities, which we  encourage. It is important to note 
from a historic point of view that all of us are the sum of 
the human interactions and the great progress resulting 
from  migration  over  the  centuries  on  all  continents. 
The  impact  on  development  no  longer  needs  to  be 
Lampedusa has become a cemetery for the hopes of 
African youth. It is up to all of us, primarily Africans, 
to  ensure  that  death  is  not  the  destiny  of  migrant 
travellers and that we act together, both Africans and 
Europeans, to find the ways and means to find a lasting 
solution that prevents such a tragedy from taking place 
again. We cannot allow such unmanaged migration to 
continue,  if  we  are  to  remain  a  credible  international 
13-50003
31/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
Organization  and  if  we  really  believe  in  solidarity  in 
development.
In  1999,  there  were  155  million  migrants  in 
the  world;  now,  according  to  recent  data,  there  are 
232  million  human  beings  in  that  situation.  As  we 
prepare the sustainable development goals for the post-
2015 agenda, we must take into account the undeniable 
reality  of  international  migration  and,  working  both 
bilaterally  and  internationally,  seek  to  develop  the 
necessary legal framework for better regulation of the 
flows, focusing on human rights and, in particular, on 
the better harmonization of policies aimed at eradicating 
the painful and tragic situations of migration in certain 
countries  and  regions  of  the  world.  More  than  ever 
before,  as  in  other  areas  of  international  relations, 
a  firm  and  sustainable  will  is  the  cornerstone  for  the 
success of our common initiative.
Cape Verde, which has been a country of abundant 
migration, is very sensitive to the diaspora, given that 
remittances  have  always  formed  an  important  part  of 
our  budget.  Today,  as  a  country  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination, my country continues to note that there is 
much activity and feels a great responsibility towards 
the  community  in  the  diaspora  and  in  migration.  We 
are working to coordinate policies in that area with our 
partners.
We  would  like  to  commend  in  particular  the 
European Union for its willingness and its help, which 
enables us to better manage our migration flows and to 
have better coordinated policies specifically aimed at the 
reintegration and productive participation of migrants. 
For  example,  in  the  mobility  partnership  between  the 
European Union and Cape Verde, the European Union 
project on capacity-building for migrants in Cape Verde 
provides aid for the economic reinsertion of nationals 
who wish to return to their country. The recent approval 
of  a  communication  plan  aimed  at  more  effectively 
attracting  the  savings  of  migrants  for  investment  in 
productive activities allows us to improve in that area. 
Countries  such  as  France,  Portugal,  the  Netherlands 
and Luxembourg are participating in the project.
I would also like to raise the question of irregular 
or  clandestine  migration  that  involves  trafficking  in 
human beings and afflicts all our societies and affects 
our  respective  jurisdictions.  It  is  a  challenge  for  our 
countries that has to be met from a humanitarian and 
security point of view. It is also a problem for Cape Verde. 
Civil societies and non-governmental organizations are 
working  with  all  stakeholders  to  resolve  that  urgent 
situation. The United Nations action plan on trafficking 
in  persons  provides  us  with  the  necessary  guidelines 
to  prevent  and  combat  that  universal  scourge  and  to 
aid the victims, in particular women and children, and 
resolutely to prosecute those who commit such crimes. 
A  Trust  Fund  was  established  by  the  United  Nations 
for victims, and it is hoped that large contributions will 
make it possible to offer concrete aid to the victims.
I also note the issue of climate refugees, which other 
speakers  have  mentioned.  In  fact,  the  planet’s  global 
warming,  desertification,  rising  sea  levels,  and  soil 
erosion, as well as floods, forest fires and the melting 
of  glaciers,  have  caused  millions  of  human  beings  to 
leave  their  homes  and  have  obliged  them  to  migrate. 
There is a veritable explosion in migration because of 
the scale of migration flows, which is irreversible in the 
majority of cases and is taking place simultaneously in 
various parts of the world.
It  is  estimated  that  every  two  seconds  someone 
moves because of climate change. In 2008, 36 million 
people had to leave their homes for that reason. Between 
2008  and  2012,  143.9  million  people  had  to  hastily 
leave  their  homes  for  the  same  reason.  Those  people 
are increasingly going to the towns, fuelling the urban 
explosion. In most cases, migration occurs domestically, 
but increasingly, in the Pacific in particular, the world 
can expect a massive surge in migration flows owing to 
the rise in the sea levels and the gradual disappearance 
of  land  on  the  small  island  developing  States  of  the 
Pacific.
In conclusion, let me share the following with the 
Assembly.  In  Cape  Verde,  everybody  has  at  least  one 
person  in  their  family  who  has  migrated.  My  parents 
went  to  Senegal  in  the  1940s,  and  today  members  of 
my family live, for various reasons, in various parts of 
the world. I am therefore a true product of that global 
phenomenon. And certainly in this Hall, others have had 
the same experience. On account of my experience, I am 
tempted to say that migration enables contributions to 
countries and peoples, who become richer with another 
culture, and as a result, they naturally possess a tolerant 
vision  of  the  world  and  a  certain  desire  for  openness 
and  sharing.  Certainly,  the  sociopolitical  climate  and 
the trials of life will change us, but the Assembly will 
agree  with  me  that  hope  will  always  be  appropriate 
when a migrant settles and builds his future.
Mr. Ngorima (Zimbabwe): Allow me to begin by 
expressing my Government’s gratitude to the President 
of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General for 
32/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
convening  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. It is a timely and relevant 
initiative  that  seeks  to  express  the  nexus  between 
migration and development, particularly in the context 
of formulating the post-2015 development agenda.
Zimbabwe aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by  the  representatives  of  Ethiopia  on  behalf  of  the 
Africa Group and of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China.  Zimbabwe  supports  Africa’s  position  on 
the action plan consisting of the eight proposed points 
of  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  (A/68/190) 
on  the  follow-up  to  the  High-Level  Dialogue.  The 
recommendations complement our national values and 
objectives. We endeavour to eliminate the exploitation 
of all persons, protect the human rights of all migrants, 
integrate  migration  into  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, strengthen the use of factual data on migration 
and  expand  cooperative  partnerships  on  migration 
issues.
Migration,  both  illegal  and  legal,  is  an  age-old 
human  phenomenon.  It  has  been  a  constant  in  the 
history of human development. It is a multidimensional 
issue, which, by definition and by its nature, requires 
intensive cooperation and the coordination of activities 
through  the  harmonization  of  policies  at  the  national, 
regional,  continental  and  international  levels  in  order 
to address the challenges and harness the development 
potential it presents.
In  the  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288, annex), migration was recognized as a means 
to promote economic, social and cultural development 
in  both  sending  and  receiving  countries.  Apart  from 
remittances,  diaspora  groups  and 
transnational 
communities also play an important role by facilitating 
trade,  investment,  the  transfer  of  skills  and  cultural 
linkages  between  countries. 
that 
background  that  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
should recognize and appreciate the significant role of 
international migration in promoting economic, social 
and cultural development.
is  against 
It 
We  welcome  the  mounting  evidence  that,  with 
the  right  policies  in  place,  migrants  can  significantly 
contribute  to  development  in  both  countries  of  origin 
and  countries  of  destination  through  remittances, 
trade,  investment,  the  creation  of  enterprises  and  the 
transfer  of  technology,  skills  and  knowledge.  That 
evidence-based  demonstration  of 
the  benefits  of 
migration has changed the narrative on migration and 
contributed  to  the  debunking  of  negative  stereotypes 
and myths about migration.
As  developing  countries,  however,  we  have  lost 
highly  skilled  persons,  especially  in  the  health  and 
engineering fields. We therefore expect that, as part of 
the migration discourse, consideration would be given 
to factors that ensure mutual benefits for both source 
and destination countries.
The most vulnerable groups of migrants are often 
those  whose  movements  are  forced  by  circumstances. 
They usually consist of the unskilled and semi-skilled 
groups. It is important to address the challenges faced 
by  irregular  migrants  to  ensure  their  safety  and  the 
protection of their human rights. Often human traffickers 
exploit  their  desperation  and  put  them  in  situations 
approximating  slavery.  Most  of  the  victims  in  that 
category are women and children. We are committed to 
all efforts to prevent and combat trafficking in persons 
and  to  protect  migrants  from  exploitation  and  other 
abuses.  We  also  subscribe  to  the  need  to  respect  and 
promote  international  labour  standards  and  the  rights 
of migrants in the work place.
One  of  the  main  challenges  is  the  flow  of 
undocumented  migrants  between  countries  and 
regions.  Such  movements  are  triggered  by  a  variety 
of  factors,  including  instability,  disasters,  famine  and 
other economic factors, and they present challenges to 
receiving and transit countries. Zimbabwe has become 
both  a  transit  and  a  destination  country  for  third-
country nationals. As a country with a small developing 
economy,  we  have  experienced 
that 
migration of that kind places on our limited resources. 
We  are  committed  to  fulfilling  our  obligations,  but 
we  need  assistance  and  cooperation  in  that  regard. 
We  appreciate  the  contribution  by  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  through  the  operation  of 
research and support centres for refugees and migrants 
around the country.
the  strains 
The  Government  of  Zimbabwe  acknowledges  the 
assistance and contribution of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  in  responding 
to migrants’ humanitarian needs around the world. The 
Government,  in  collaboration  with  the  International 
Organization for Migration and UNHCR, continues to 
implement  projects  and  programmes  that  address  the 
challenges  being  faced  by  migrants  and  refugees  in 
Zimbabwe.
13-50003
33/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
As a people that emerged from an armed struggle 
against colonialism and injustice and as a State party 
to the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination,  the  Government 
of Zimbabwe strongly condemns all forms of modern 
slavery,  human  exploitation,  xenophobia  and  racial 
discrimination. We therefore welcome efforts to come 
up  with  integrated,  coherent  and  effective  global 
guidelines on migration and development with a view 
to achieving win-win outcomes.
Mr.  Logar  (Slovenia):  Let  me  join  others  in 
expressing  my  Government’s  deepest  condolences  to 
the families and friends of those who lost their lives in 
the  tragedy  off  the  coast  of  Lampedusa.  It  was  really 
a  human  tragedy.  Slovenia  also  associates  itself  with 
the statement made this morning by the observer of the 
European Union.
The  second  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  is  taking  place  at  a  very 
crucial moment, bearing in mind the ongoing discussions 
on  the  post-2015  framework.  It  provides  a  unique 
opportunity  to  reiterate  and  further  strengthen  the 
common commitments towards deepening cooperation 
on  migration  and  development.  Seven  years  after  the 
first  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and  Development,  Slovenia  expects  that  the  second 
High-level  Dialogue  will  take  into  account  all  the 
positive results achieved in 2006, as well as the progress 
accomplished  by  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development and the important contributions made by 
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on 
Migration. We hope to work towards a global agenda for 
effective and inclusive migration management, secure 
renewed  commitment  to  the  issue  of  international 
migration and development, and identify measures that 
promote the role of migrants as promoters of innovation 
and development.
We  come  together  to  discuss  migration  —  the 
challenges and opportunities it presents. For Slovenia, 
there is a central topic that is worthy of attention, namely, 
respect  for  the  human  rights  of  migrants.  Particular 
attention should therefore be given to the protection of 
women, children and victims of trafficking. In that vein, 
we believe that we need to improve the governance of 
migration, particularly as regards the protection of the 
human rights of all migrants, perceptions of migrants 
and  immigration  and  the  reflection  of  migration  in 
national and global development agendas.
Slovenia believes that there is still some room for 
improvement in finding synergies among the relevant 
United  Nations  agencies  and  other  international  and 
regional  organizations  dealing  with  migration  and 
development.  We  hope  to  avoid  wasting  resources, 
including  human  and  financial  resources,  and  to 
develop  a  more  coherent  and  comprehensive  global 
policy on migration and development. Furthermore, we 
need to work towards more effective cooperation among 
all relevant stakeholders at all levels and increase the 
role of partnerships so as to make migration a positive 
narrative for all.
The 
interconnection  between  migration  and 
development no longer needs to be proved. Migration 
and  mobility  have  contributed  to  the  achievement 
of  many  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
still  have  important  potential  for  the  acceleration 
of  progress  towards  the  realization  of  those  targets 
where  we  remain  off-track.  We  believe  that  the 
migration-development  nexus  can  be  successfully 
tackled only comprehensively — at the global, regional 
and  national  levels.  That  is  why  Slovenia  considers 
that  we  should  develop  a  more  holistic  approach  and 
properly address all relevant aspects in a balanced way 
and  establish  a  basic  common  understanding  of  the 
dynamics of that nexus. That will help us in elaborating 
the role of migration in the post-2015 agenda.
Furthermore,  we  believe 
that  migration  and 
mobility should be included in the post-2015 agenda as 
enabling  factors  for  the  realization  of  other  goals  on 
that agenda. In that regard, we should take into account 
the  impacts  of  migration  not  only  on  sustainable 
economic  development  but  also  on  sustainable  social 
and  environmental  development,  especially 
the 
interlinkages  between  climate  change,  environmental 
degradation  and  migration,  which  should  be  further 
explored.  We  should  also  acknowledge  that  more 
systematic  work  is  needed  to  provide  a  sufficient 
knowledge  base  on  how  migration  can  drive  progress 
towards  sustainable  development.  It  will,  therefore, 
be  crucial  that  we  attach  greater  importance  to  data 
collection and research.
Migration undoubtedly has many positive impacts 
on  development.  In  our  deliberations  on  the  role  of 
migration  in  the  post-2015  period,  we  should  try  to 
secure the many possible positive effects of migration 
and development and minimize the detrimental aspects, 
which usually come with poorly managed migration.
34/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
Let me conclude by underlining that Slovenia pays 
great  attention  to  migration  issues  at  the  national, 
regional and global levels. Allow me to present just a 
few achievements that we can note in Slovenia in the 
field of migration. First, among the new developments 
regarding  integration  programmes  for  third-country 
nationals,  several  assistance  programmes  for 
the 
integration  of  specific  target  groups  of  third-country 
nationals  were 
including 
programmes  that  provide  information  to  parents  of 
children enrolled in primary schools and programmes 
that strive to enhance the social inclusion of women and 
young people.
implemented 
in  2012, 
With  regard  to  regional  cooperation,  a  project 
to  strengthen  effectiveness  in  the  investigation  of 
trafficking  in  human  beings  in  South-East  Europe 
proceeded  with  the  introduction  of  joint  investigation 
teams. Migration is also high on the agenda of the so-
called  Brdo  process  initiated  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Slovenia,  which  is  essentially  a  regional 
process  for  Slovenia  and  its  neighbourhood.  A  few 
days  ago,  at  the  end  of  September,  Slovenia  hosted  a 
migration  and  development  peer-to-peer  meeting  in 
the  framework  of  the  Euro-Mediterranean  Migration 
III Project. The meeting was an opportunity to discuss 
and explore the importance of stronger links between 
immigrant  communities  and  the  impact  of  migrant-
led businesses on countries of origin and countries of 
destination.
Ms. Nazaire (Haiti) (spoke in French): Allow me to 
begin by conveying the condolences of the Government 
of  Haiti  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the  tragic 
accident  that  took  place  off  the  coast  of  Lampedusa 
yesterday.  My  delegation  fully  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Fiji,  Benin 
and  Cuba,  who  spoke,  respectively,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, the least developed countries 
and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States  (see  A/68/PV.25).  We  also  thank  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  having  taken  the  timely 
initiative to convene a High-level Dialogue on the topic 
of international migration and development.
fifth  of 
According  to  the  most  conservative  estimates, 
the  current  population  of 
about  one 
Haiti —  that  is,  almost  2  million  of  its  nationals  and 
their  dependents  —  live  abroad  today.  The  strong 
migration that the country saw during the second half 
of the last century adversely impacted Haiti at all levels 
of  production  and  administration,  as  well  as  in  the 
vital sectors of education and professional training. It 
would  appear  that  more  than  70  per  cent  of  the  most 
educated  Haitian  citizens  live  in  countries  members 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development. In Haiti, the brain drain is an undeniable 
reality.
On  the  other  hand,  as  an  illustration  of  the 
complexity  of 
relations  between  migration  and 
sustainable development, our country today, through its 
large diaspora across the world, has an incredible reserve 
of  financial,  intellectual  and  professional  resources 
that  successive  Governments  have  endeavoured  to 
take  advantage  of  as  key  levers  of  growth  and  social 
progress in Haiti.
In addition to seeking balance and leveraging the 
economic  and  social  impacts  of  migration,  Haiti  is 
particularly concerned by the serious issues of human 
rights that current and potential migrants face in transit 
and  destination  countries.  Economic  exploitation,  the 
stripping  of  migrant  workers  of  their  social  rights, 
the  trafficking  in  human  beings,  particularly  women 
and  children,  and  the  forced  repatriation  of  migrants 
who  are  judged  undesirable,  rightly  or  not,  have 
increased  in  a  most  alarming  manner.  That  situation 
has  been  exacerbated  by  the  global  economic  crisis 
and its regional and local fallout, which has led to the 
intensification of certain nationalist trends.
Nevertheless, despite all the dangers and risks that 
candidates  for  migrations  face,  globalization  today 
would  suggest  that  migratory  movements,  be  they 
regulated or not, be they South to North or, more often, 
South  to  South,  will  only  grow.  Indeed,  phenomena 
such  as  growing  disparities  between  and  within 
emerging countries, mobility and accelerated planetary 
connectivity,  climate  change  and  chaotic  democratic 
transitions  facilitate  vast  movements  of  peoples  or 
make them more desirable.
The interlinkages between international migration 
and development foreshadow major challenges for the 
future. In order to best evaluate those phenomena and 
establish  the  appropriate  measures  to  take  in  order 
to  reap  the  greatest  dividends  from  international 
migration, there needs to be a humanistic, objective and 
systematic approach. As it enables deep reflection and 
multilateral  exchange,  today’s  High-level  Dialogue  is 
therefore welcome, necessary and crucial.
Along  the  lines  of  the  results  we  seek  to  achieve 
during our work, my delegation welcomes the intention 
13-50003
35/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
to acknowledge the important role played by migrants 
in the development of their country of destination, for 
example, in creating wealth, demographic rejuvenation, 
vitality  and  cultural  diversity.  Indeed,  we  think  that 
aspect,  which  is  too  often  eclipsed,  intentionally  or 
inadvertently, by actions taken by migrants that benefit 
their  countries  of  origin,  can  significantly  improve 
the  public’s  opinion  of  migrants  and  international 
migration.
My  delegation  also  believes  that  decisions  should 
be based on a practical, action-oriented approach that 
emphasizes human rights and the fundamental freedoms 
of  migrants,  particularly  women  and  children.  In  the 
case  of  migrant  workers  and  their  work  and  salaries, 
the  debate  should  be  based  on  existing  international 
standards such as the International Convention on the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members of Their Families and the Domestic Workers 
Convention.
My delegation considers the need for cooperation to 
be particularly important for dealing holistically with 
the  causes,  consequences  and  challenges  of  irregular 
or  undocumented  migration  in  order  to  strengthen 
ordered, regular and safe migration.
In  the  framework  of  measures  aimed  at  reducing 
the imbalances created by the brain drain and the flight 
of vital resources, we should encourage the promotion 
of  circular  migration  and  financial  contributions 
by  migrants  in  diasporas  in  the  form  of  productive 
investment  geared 
their 
countries of origin.
towards  development 
in 
Haiti  welcomes  the  efforts  and  initiatives  in  the 
area of international migration and development by the 
various relevant entities of the United Nations system 
and  the  various  ad  hoc  partnership  mechanisms,  like 
the Global Migration Group and the Global Forum on 
Migration and Development.
To  conclude,  we  must  forcefully  reaffirm  our 
conviction  that  the  strengthening  of  the  synergies 
between international migration and development that 
benefit  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination, 
all  at  the  same  time,  can  best  be  obtained  through 
dialogue  and  international  and  regional  cooperation 
and  certainly  not  through  unilateral  authoritarian 
decision-making, which is always counterproductive in 
the long term, even when it is adorned with the seal of 
laws and constitutions.
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands): I thank the President 
for convening this High-level Dialogue on International 
Migration  and  Development.  At  the  outset,  Solomon 
Islands  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China, and by the representative of Benin on behalf of 
the least developed countries (see A/68/PV.25). We also 
thank the delegation of Mexico for its leadership on this 
topic, and we wish to express gratitude for everyone’s 
contribution.
interlinked 
international  economic 
We live and operate in a globalized, interconnected 
system. 
and 
Technology, communication and modern transportation 
have  made  the  world  even  smaller.  We  agree  that 
international  migration  is  a  cross-cutting  issue  and 
contributes to development for both the receiving and 
the sending States. As stated by many in today’s debate, 
migrant  workers  remain  agents  for  development. 
However, more international cooperation is needed to 
control the negative impact of migration and to prevent 
forced migration. We see the discussion as timely as we 
continue to consider the post-2015 development agenda.
While  there  is  growing  South-South  migration, 
it  is  a  fact  that  South-North  migration  remains  more 
defined. Economic migrants are agents for development. 
More  work  by  global  financial  institutions  is  needed 
to  reduce  remittance  costs  for  migrant  workers,  their 
families  and  their  communities.  Families  depend  on 
those  funds  for  school  fees,  health,  food  and  shelter. 
Solomon  Islands  has  worked  with  the  International 
Organization for Migration to build its national capacity, 
including through a review of legislation, policies, staff 
development and training in, inter alia, managing the 
movement of foreign workers.
In the Pacific, we have put in place at the Government 
level  a  seasonal  labour  mobility  initiative  among  the 
Pacific small island developing States (SIDS), including 
Timor-Leste, and our larger neighbours, Australia and 
New  Zealand,  which  organizes  and  heavily  regulates 
employer-driven  labour  mobility  and  looks  after  the 
welfare  of  migrants  and  guarantees  the  supply  of 
productive  labour.  We  have  a  huge  youth  population, 
which exceeds half of our national population, with high 
unemployment in the focal sectors, and competition for 
the  limited  contractual  labour  opportunities  remains 
very  high.  We  hope  to  establish  more  guest  worker 
arrangements with other countries to give hope and a 
future to our youth.
36/38 
13-50003
04/10/2013 
A/68/PV.27
On  South-South  cooperation,  integration  among 
the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  countries  of  Fiji, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Vanuatu  and  Solomon  Islands 
has  deepened  the  movement  of  labour,  as  free  trade 
arrangements continue to take root in the four Pacific 
SIDS. The economic boom in Papua New Guinea has 
opened  up  opportunities  for  skilled  workers  from 
the  country’s  Pacific  neighbours,  and  some  Solomon 
Islands nationals have taken advantage of that.
When we speak of international migration, we are 
also  talking  about  humanitarian  and  environmental 
migrants  seeking  decent  employment  outside  their 
countries of origin — populations fleeing from conflict 
situations or from the impacts of climate change, such 
as drought, floods and other natural disasters. What we 
are now seeing is the gradual impact of climate change’s 
slow-onset  events,  where  damage  caused  by  climate 
change becomes irreversible and permanent. Examples 
of that are sea-level rise and ocean acidification.
environmental 
refugees 
Dealing  with 
as 
populations  are  forced  off  their  land  and  are  obliged 
seek  employment  beyond  their  ancestral  lands  in 
order to survive is a reality. That is something that the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex) 
underscores.  We  have  extracted  so  much  from  the 
planet in an unsustainable way, without allowing it to 
heal itself. We have thus more or less reached the limit 
of  what  the  planet  can  take.  Accordingly,  dialogue  is 
necessary to address and respond to the complexity of 
international migration.
Discussion  should  also  focus  on  the  root  causes 
of  conflicts  and  how  to  prevent  them  and  on  doing 
more to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions as a way of 
addressing the uncertain future that climate change is 
already defining for our present and future generations.
Once again, Solomon Islands welcomes this High-
level Dialogue and assures the General Assembly of its 
cooperation as we continue the discussion on economic, 
humanitarian and environmental migrants.
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  The  delegation  of  Guyana 
is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered 
by the representatives of Fiji and Cuba, who spoke on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the Community 
of Latin American and Caribbean States, respectively 
(see A/68/PV.25).
We  welcome  the  consensus  adoption  yesterday 
of  the  Declaration  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  (resolution 
68/4)  and  applaud  Mexico’s  instrumental  role  in 
facilitating that result.
Among  its  provisions,  the  Declaration  recognizes 
that  international  migration  is  of  major  relevance  for 
the  development  of  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination.  The  report  of 
the  Secretary-General 
on  the  subject,  contained  in  document  A/68/190, 
bears  ample  testimony  to  international  migration’s 
undoubted  importance  to  the  current  development 
discourse. The eight-point agenda for action proposed 
therein addresses critical aspects of the migration and 
development agenda.
The 
interrelationships  between 
international 
migration and development are of course complex and 
multifaceted,  but  no  one  can  deny  that  migration  has 
contributed in diverse ways to development in nations 
and  societies  in  all  parts  of  the  globe.  Globalization 
now  ensures  that  the  transnational  movement  of 
peoples  will  remain  a  reality,  indeed  a  necessity,  in 
today’s global economy. It is important, therefore, that 
the contribution of migrants be duly acknowledged and 
their rights respected and protected. The international 
community bears a collective responsibility to protect 
migrants  from  exploitation  and  discrimination,  even 
as  countries  exercise  their  sovereign  right  to  regulate 
migratory flows.
As  a  country  of  origin,  transit  and  destination, 
Guyana has benefited from those who have come to our 
shores to live and work. Similarly, Guyanese migrants 
have  made  a  positive  contribution  to  countries  and 
societies in many parts of the world. Guyana is a party 
to the International Convention on the Protection of the 
Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their 
Families, and we were proud to become the first in the 
Caribbean to ratify the Domestic Workers Convention 
of the International Labour Organization in 2011.
For  many  developing  countries  such  as  my  own, 
international  migration  has  led  to  a  loss  of  critical 
human  resources,  with  adverse  implications  for  a 
national  development  thrust.  A  high  percentage  of 
our  graduates  now  live  and  work  in  foreign  lands. 
Remittances, substantial though they may be, are not a 
substitute for that primary loss of skills and capacities. 
Nevertheless, the importance of remittances is not to be 
understated. According to the Multilateral Investment 
13-50003
37/38
A/68/PV.27 
04/10/2013
Fund,  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  migrants  sent 
$61  billion  in  remittances  to  their  home  countries  in 
2010, with a year-on-year growth of 6 per cent. In 2011, 
Guyana  received  some  $400  million  in  remittances, 
the  equivalent  of  more  than  10  per  cent  of  our  gross 
domestic product. Reducing the cost of those transfers 
could  certainly  augment  their  potential  economic 
impact.
The role of technology and improved communications 
is also to be acknowledged for helping to better connect 
diasporas  with  their  countries  of  origin.  Renewed 
connections  facilitated  in  that  manner  have  opened 
up  new  possibilities  for  the  contribution  of  diasporas 
to development in their home countries. Working with 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  (IOM), 
the  Government  of  Guyana  has  embarked  on  the 
Guyana  Diaspora  Project  with  a  view  to  facilitating 
a  more  structured  engagement  with  the  Guyanese 
diaspora. The Project will enable the identification of 
resources available within the diaspora and contribute 
to  leveraging  the  interest  of  our  nationals  abroad  in 
contributing to development at home.
At  the  regional  level,  progress  towards  to  the 
Caribbean  single  market  and  economy  has  facilitated 
the movement of Caribbean Community (CARICOM) 
nationals  generally  and  labour  mobility  in  particular 
within CARICOM. On the other hand, mixed migration 
flows, including trafficking in persons, have become an 
issue of concern. In May 2013, the IOM helped organize 
a regional conference in the Bahamas on the protection 
of  vulnerable  people  and  mixed  migration  flows  in 
the  Caribbean.  The  aim  was  to  strengthen  national 
and  regional  capacities  to  effectively  manage  such 
flows,  while  recognizing  the  rights  of  legal  migrants 
and  building  protection  safeguards  into  regional  and 
multilateral agreements.
In  conclusion,  we  believe  that  the  inextricable 
and  multidimensional  nexus  between  international 
migration and development deserves to be fully taken 
into account in the context of efforts to elaborate a post-
2015 development agenda. It is necessary that that nexus 
be fully understood, so that we can develop cooperative 
and coherent approaches for the benefit of all.
The meeting rose at 2 p.m.
38/38 
13-50003
