United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
53rd plenary meeting
Monday, 18 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.53
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 114 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic 
and Social Council
The Acting President: Members are reminded that 
the election of 18 members of the Economic and Social 
Council was held during the 40th plenary meeting, on 
30 October, during which the following 18 States were 
elected members of the Economic and Social Council 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2014:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Bangladesh,  Botswana, 
China,  the  Congo,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Denmark,  Georgia,  Guatemala,  Kazakhstan, 
New  Zealand,  Panama,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the 
Russian  Federation,  Serbia,  Sweden,  Togo  and  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
I would first like to draw the attention of members 
to a letter dated 12 November 2013 from the Permanent 
Representative of Luxembourg to the United Nations.
In  her  letter,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Luxembourg, in her capacity as Chair of the Group of 
Western  European  and  other  States,  announces  that 
Ireland  will  relinquish  its  seat  on  the  Economic  and 
Social Council at the end of 2013 for the remaining term, 
in favour of Germany; the Netherlands will relinquish 
its seat on the Council, also at the end of the year 2013 
for  the  remaining  term,  in  favour  of  Italy;  Spain  will 
relinquish its seat on the Council, also at the end of the 
year 2013 for the remaining term, in favour of Portugal; 
and Turkey will relinquish its seat on the Council, also 
at the end of the year 2013 for the remaining term, in 
favour of Greece.
As  a  result,  four  vacancies  will  occur  and  new 
members must therefore be elected to fill the unexpired 
terms of office of Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain and 
Turkey,  commencing  on  1  January  2014  and  expiring 
on 31 December 2014, in the case of Ireland, Spain and 
Turkey,  and  on  31  December  2015,  in  the  case  of  the 
Netherlands.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of resolution 2847 
(XXVI), of 20 December 1971, and taking into account 
that the vacancies will occur from among the Group of 
Western European and other States, the new members 
should therefore be elected from that region.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
candidates  that  receive  a  two-thirds  majority  and  the 
greatest  number  of  votes  by  members  present  and 
voting will be declared elected. May I take it that the 
General Assembly agrees to that procedure?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: In accordance with rule 92 
of the rules of procedure, the election shall be held by 
secret  ballot,  and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  We 
shall now proceed accordingly.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-56715 (E)
*1356715*
A/68/PV.53 
I should like to inform members that, as of 1 January 
2014,  the  following  States  from  among  the  Group  of 
Western European and other States will be represented 
on the Economic and Social Council: Austria, Canada, 
Denmark, France, New Zealand, San Marino, Sweden, 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland and the United States of America. The names 
of those nine States should therefore not appear on the 
ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s name plate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
I should like to remind members that, at this stage, 
they are voting in the by-election for four seats for the 
Western European and other States.
Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  I  request 
representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot  papers  and 
to  write  on  them  the  names  of  the  States  for  which 
they  wish  to  vote.  A  ballot  will  be  declared  invalid 
if it contains more names of Member States from the 
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it. 
A ballot will also be declared invalid if all the names 
of the Member States on that ballot do not belong to the 
relevant region.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Louis 
(Colombia),  Ms.  Del  Águila  Castillo  (Guatemala), 
Ms.  Jónsdóttir  (Iceland),  Mr.  Ivezaj  (Montenegro), 
Mr.  Stefanik  (Poland),  Ms.  Bartolini  (San  Marino), 
Ms.  AlSweel  (Saudi  Arabia)  and  Mr.  Madut  (South 
Sudan) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.20  a.m.  and 
resumed at 10.55 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Group  B  —  Western  European  and  Other  States  
(1 seat)
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
187
0
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 
Italy 
Greece 
Germany 
Portugal 
Australia 
The Netherlands 
18/11/2013
187
1
186
124
184
182
180
179
1
1
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
Germany, Greece, Italy and Portugal were elected 
members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
Germany,  Greece  and  Portugal  were  elected  for 
a term of office beginning on 1 January 2014 and 
ending on 31 December 2014. Italy was elected for 
a term of office beginning on 1 January 2014 and 
ending on 31 December 2015.
The  Acting  President:  I  congratulate  Germany, 
Greece,  Italy  and  Portugal  on  having  been  elected 
members of the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 114.
Agenda item 129
International Tribunal for the Prosecution of 
Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of 
International Humanitarian Law Committed in  
the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Letter from the President of the Security Council 
(A/68/516)
Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/68/539, A/68/539/Add.1 and A/68/539/Add.2) 
Curricula vitae (A/68/540)
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
proceed to the election of one permanent judge of the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  since  1991  for  a  four-year  term  of 
office commencing on the date of election.
In  connection  with  the  election  today  of  the  one 
permanent  judge,  I  should  like  to  bring  the  following 
matters to the attention of the General Assembly.
2/5 
13-56715
18/11/2013 
A/68/PV.53
First,  according  to  article  13  bis,  paragraph  1,  of 
the statute of the International Tribunal as amended by 
Security  Council  resolutions  1166  (1998),  of  13  May 
1998, and 1329 (2000), of 30 November 2000, the one 
permanent  judge  of  the  International  Tribunal  shall 
be  elected  by  the  General  Assembly  from  a  list  of 
candidates submitted by the Security Council.
In accordance with article 13 bis, sub-paragraph 1 
(c),  of  the  statute  of  the  International  Tribunal,  a  list 
of six candidates, taking due account of the adequate 
representation  of  the  principal  legal  systems  of  the 
world,  was  formally  conveyed  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  by  a  letter  dated  3  October  2013 
from the President of the Security Council (A/68/516).
Secondly,  in  accordance  with  article  13  bis, 
sub-paragraph 1 (d), of the statute of the International 
Tribunal,  the  Holy  See  and  the  State  of  Palestine, 
non-member  States  maintaining  permanent  observer 
missions  at  United  Nations  Headquarters,  shall 
participate  in  the  election  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
States Members of the United Nations. On this occasion, 
I am happy to welcome here the observers of the Holy 
See and the State of Palestine.
Finally,  I  should  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
Assembly to the documents relating to the election. The 
memorandum  by  the  Secretary-General  concerning 
the  election  of  judges  of  the  International  Tribunal  is 
contained  in  documents  A/68/539  and  addenda  1  and 
2. The list of candidates can be found in paragraph 8 of 
document A/68/539. As indicated in the addenda to that 
document,  Austria,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and 
Jordan have decided to withdraw their candidatures for 
judge of the International Tribunal. Therefore, there are 
only three candidates for this election.
The  curricula  vitae  of  the  three  candidates  are 
contained  in  document  A/68/540.  In  that  connection, 
may  I  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  Assembly  the 
provision of article 13 of the statute of the International 
Tribunal, which reads as follows:
“The  permanent  and  ad  litem  judges  shall  be 
persons  of  high  moral  character,  impartiality  and 
integrity  who  possess  the  qualifications  required 
in their respective countries for appointment to the 
highest judicial offices.
“In  the  overall  composition  of  the  Chambers 
and  sections  of  the  Trial  Chambers,  due  account 
shall  be  taken  of  the  experience  of  the  judges 
including 
in  criminal 
international 
law, 
law, 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights 
law.”
As members are aware, the election of judges will 
take place in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
article 13 bis of the statute of the International Tribunal.
Also,  given  the  similar  nature  of  the  election  of 
judges  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
election of judges of the International Tribunal, it was 
decided at the time of the elections of judges in 1993 as 
well as in 1997, 1998, 2001 and 2005 to follow similar 
election procedures in the General Assembly.
In the light of the remarks just made, may I take it 
that the Assembly agrees with the suggestion to follow 
similar  election  procedures  in  the  General  Assembly 
election of judges of the International Court of Justice 
and the election of judges of the International Tribunal, 
in line with the procedures followed at the time of the 
elections  of  judges  in  1993  as  well  as  in  1997,  1998, 
2001 and 2005?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: In accordance with article 
13  bis,  sub-paragraph  1  (d),  of  the  statute  of  the 
International  Tribunal,  the  candidate  who  receives 
an  absolute  majority  of  the  votes  of  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the  non-member  States 
maintaining  permanent  observer  missions  at  United 
Nations Headquarters shall be declared elected.
The  consistent  practice  of  the  United  Nations 
has  been  to  interpret  the  words  “absolute  majority” 
as  meaning  a  majority  of  all  electors,  whether  or  not 
they vote or are allowed to vote. The electors, for this 
purpose, are all the Member States, totalling 193, and 
two non-member States, namely, the Holy See and the 
State  of  Palestine.  Accordingly,  98  votes  constitute 
an  absolute  majority  for  the  purpose  of  electing  a 
permanent judge of the International Tribunal.
If, in the first ballot, none of the candidates obtains 
an absolute majority, a second ballot will be held and 
balloting  will  continue  in  the  same  meeting  until  a 
candidate has obtained an absolute majority.
Following  the  practice  in  the  election  of  judges 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the  Secretary-
General suggests in his memorandum that any second 
and subsequent balloting shall be unrestricted.
It is further suggested that, following the practice 
in the election of the judges of the International Court of 
13-56715
3/5
A/68/PV.53 
18/11/2013
Justice, if more than one candidate obtains an absolute 
majority of votes in the first ballot, a second ballot will 
be held on all candidates and balloting will continue at 
the same meeting until one candidate, and no more, has 
obtained an absolute majority.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  the 
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Observer of the Observer State of the Holy See.
Archbishop Chullikatt (Holy See): My delegation 
follows the work of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) with great attention 
and welcomes efforts being undertaken to conclude the 
work of the ad hoc Tribunal.
While  the  Holy  See  is  entitled  to  participate  in 
the  election  of  judges  to  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, in accordance with 
its prior practice during the elections to the ICTY and 
in  consideration  of  its  specific  nature  and  objectives, 
my  delegation  elects  to  abstain  from  casting  its  vote 
on  individual  candidates.  In  so  doing,  my  delegation 
expresses its best wishes to the candidates and renews 
its  vivid  hope  that  the  candidate  who  will  be  elected 
will  serve  justice  and  contribute  to  peace  around  the 
world.
The Acting President: Before we begin the voting 
process, I should like to remind members that, pursuant 
to  rule  88  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly, no representative shall interrupt the voting 
except on a point of order on the actual conduct of the 
voting. In addition, ballot papers will be given only to 
the representative seated directly behind the country’s 
name plate.
We shall now begin the voting process. Ballot papers 
will now be distributed. I request representatives to use 
only  those  ballot  papers  that  have  been  distributed. 
Only  those  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot papers are eligible for election. Representatives 
will indicate the one candidate for whom they wish to 
vote by placing a cross at the left of the name on the 
ballot  papers.  Ballot  papers  on  which  more  than  one 
name is marked will be considered invalid. Votes may 
be cast only for those whose names appear on the ballot 
papers.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Louis 
(Colombia),  Ms.  Del  Águila  Castillo  (Guatemala), 
Ms.  Jónsdóttir  (Iceland),  Mr.  Ivezaj  (Montenegro), 
Mr.  Stefanik  (Poland),  Ms.  Bartolini  (San  Marino), 
Ms.  AlSweel  (Saudi  Arabia)  and  Mr.  Madut  (South 
Sudan) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.15  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.35 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Koffi Afande (Togo) 
Ms. Gabrielle McIntyre (Australia) 
Mr. Pavel Gontšarov (Estonia) 
193
0
193
4
189
98
94
53
42
I  request  representatives 
The  Acting  President:  Since  no  candidate  has 
obtained  an  absolute  majority  of  votes,  the  Assembly 
will  have  to  proceed  to  a  second  unrestricted  ballot 
to  fill  the  remaining  vacancy.  In  accordance  with  the 
decision taken earlier, that ballot shall be unrestricted.
those 
ballot  papers  that  have  been  distributed.  Only  those 
candidates whose names appear on the ballot papers are 
eligible  for  election.  Representatives  will  indicate  the 
one candidate for whom they wish to vote by placing a 
cross at the left of the name on the ballot papers. Ballot 
papers on which more than one name is marked will be 
considered  invalid.  Votes  may  be  cast  only  for  those 
whose names appear on the ballot papers.
to  use  only 
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Louis 
(Colombia), Ms. Del Águila Castillo (Guatemala), 
Ms. Jónsdóttir (Iceland), Mr. Ivezaj (Montenegro), 
Mr. Stefanik (Poland), Ms. Bartolini (San Marino), 
Ms. AlSweel (Saudi Arabia) and Mr. Madut (South 
Sudan) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.55  a.m.  and 
resumed at 12.15 p.m.
4/5 
13-56715
18/11/2013 
A/68/PV.53
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Koffi Afande (Togo) 
Ms. Gabrielle McIntyre (Australia) 
Mr. Pavel Gontšarov (Estonia) 
192
0
192
3
189
98
108
56
25
The  Acting  President:  Having  obtained  an 
absolute  majority,  Mr.  Koffi  Afande  (Togo)  is  elected 
a member of the International Tribunal for a four-year 
term beginning on 18 November 2013.
I take this opportunity to extend to the Judge the 
congratulations of the Assembly on his election and to 
thank the tellers for their assistance.
I now give the floor to the Observer of the Observer 
State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  I  take  the  floor  to 
express, on behalf of the State of Palestine, the feeling 
of a proud people on this special occasion in our history 
at the General Assembly, in which the State of Palestine 
has  participated  for  the  first  time  in  this  election. 
It  is  an  important  step  in  our  march  for  freedom  and 
independence  and  for  full  membership  at  the  United 
Nations.  The  reaction  of  almost  all  members  of  the 
General Assembly to our voting is a clear message that 
the Assembly is ready for our membership. We, along 
with them, cannot wait for that moment, which we hope 
will occur very soon.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Israel.
Mr. Roet (Israel): Israel congratulates Judge Afande 
and  welcomes  his  election.  I  apologize  for  being 
forced  to  ruin  what  should  have  been  a  celebratory 
and professional vote. Unfortunately, that is not yet the 
case. Again, we see the representative of the Palestinian 
Authority trying to hijack precious time. I have no issue 
with the Palestinian Authority celebrating what it deems 
a historic vote. That should have been done outside the 
Hall. I regret that. What forces me to speak is the fact 
that  Israel  maintains  its  position  that  the  Palestinian 
Authority is not a State and that it clearly fails to meet 
the criteria for statehood.
I  wish  to  stress  that  the  manner  in  which  that 
delegation  has  participated  in  the  proceedings  today 
has no effect on its status and does not confer statehood. 
There is only one route to Palestinian statehood. That 
route  does  not  run  through  the  meeting  rooms  in 
New  York,  but  through  direct  negotiations  between 
Jerusalem  and  Ramallah,  which,  hopefully,  we  pray, 
will lead to a secure and lasting peace between Israelis 
and Palestinians.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 129?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m.
13-56715
5/5
