United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
23rd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 1 October 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.23
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Errázuriz 
(Chile), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Mariyam  Shakeela,  Minister 
of  Environment  and  Energy  and  Acting  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Maldives.
Ms.  Shakeela  (Maldives):  I  wish  to  begin  by 
extending my heartfelt congratulations to the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  his  assumption  of  office 
at  the  sixty-eighth  session.  I  also  wish  to  commend 
the  Secretary-General  on  his  leadership  during  what 
is a trying and testing time around the globe. We are 
confident  in  his  leadership  and  in  the  Organization’s 
resolve in tackling the many unprecedented challenges 
of our time.
Challenges,  old  and  new,  seem  to  be  a  recurring 
theme  during  this  general  debate,  and  it  is  only  right 
that it be so: it is when we face enormous challenges and 
when we feel most uncomfortable, vulnerable, unhappy 
and unfulfilled that we are most likely to think above 
and beyond and seek new answers to old questions.
The most pressing challenge for the United Nations 
is  definitely  that  of  remaining  relevant,  given  the 
realities of the twenty-first century, as the Organization 
remains the ultimate guarantor of the sovereign equality 
of nations and the only international institution to which 
all countries, big and small, can look to ensure justice, 
freedom  and  peace.  The  Maldives,  along  with  other 
States, has been calling for the reform of the Security 
Council  to  make  it  more  inclusive,  and  thereby  more 
credible  and  reflective  of  the  voices  of  not  only  the 
powerful but also the weak, and more representative of 
the  global  population  and  its  geographic  distribution. 
In  addition  to  the  Council’s  composition,  its  working 
methods  must  also  be  improved —  only  then  can  the 
United  Nations  restore  its  credibility,  authority  and 
legitimacy.
Global  challenges  are  of  significant  importance 
to  the  Maldives.  The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is 
particularly close to the hearts of Maldivians. We are 
appalled at the human cost of the conflict in Syria. The 
use of chemical weapons at any time, by anyone, and for 
whatever purpose must not be tolerated. In that regard, 
the Maldives welcomes Security Council resolution 2118 
(2013), on the destruction of the chemical weapons in 
Syria, which was adopted unanimously. The Council’s 
decision will, we hope, take us a step closer to ending 
the atrocities taking place there as we speak. Violence 
begets violence. We therefore call on both sides of the 
conflict to choose the path of dialogue, not of violence.
The Maldives also calls on the General Assembly 
to 
recognize 
the 
Palestinian  people.  We  urge  the  Assembly  to  support 
a  two-State  solution  through  the  establishment  of  the 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
on  the  lands  occupied  in  the  1967  war.  Is  it  fair  that 
Palestinian children grow up without a country of their 
legitimate  aspirations  of 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-49063 (E)
*1349063*
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
own? Is it fair that the Palestinian needs for security, 
stability,  prosperity  and  development  go  unanswered 
and unfulfilled because of the continued violence? We 
have discussed that issue enough. It is time for action. 
We  are  encouraged  by  the  renewed  United  States-led 
Israeli-Palestinian  peace  talks.  It  is  our  earnest  hope 
that those talks will ultimately lead to a peaceful and 
secure  future  for  future  generations  of  Palestine  and 
Israel.
With the deadline for the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) fast approaching, the focus of the world 
and the Assembly has turned to the post-2015 agenda. 
However, accelerating the achievement of the original 
Millennium  Development  Goals  remains  an  urgent 
necessity.  The  Maldives  therefore  calls  on  all  nations 
to  fulfil  their  official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
commitments  and  thereby  help  the  most  vulnerable 
populations  overcome  the  challenges  they  face  in 
achieving the MDGs.
We in the Maldives have made remarkable progress 
on  the  MDGs,  having  achieved  five  out  of  the  eight 
ahead of the deadline. Although we have not achieved 
three  of  the  MDGs,  we  are  proud  of  the  work  we 
have  done  towards  achieving  them,  in  particular  on 
the  advancement  of  women.  Our  country  has  shown 
promise  in  addressing  gender  equality,  especially  in 
the area of health and education. It has nearly achieved 
universal access to basic health care for women and is 
proud of high literacy rates among boys and girls alike. 
The  Maldives  regards  improving  the  socioeconomic 
rights  of  women  as  an  integral  part  of  national 
development  and  a  core  component  of  sustainable 
development. Unfortunately, we are facing setbacks on 
some  of  the  MDGs  that  have  been  achieved,  and  are 
even regressing, owing to emerging issues, especially 
the loss of ODA as we graduate from the status of a least 
developed country (LDC), while persistent challenges 
hinder  the  achievement  of  the  whole  set  of  MDGs. 
Therefore, achieving and sustaining the progress on the 
MDGs will remain the key development challenge for 
the future.
In 
formulating 
the  post-2015  developmental 
agenda,  we  should  be  mindful  of  the  fact  that  MDGs 
are multidimensional and interconnected. They are not 
an end in themselves or a final solution, but merely a 
beginning.
The Maldives is encouraged by the multi-stakeholder 
the  United 
that  are  ongoing  within 
mechanisms 
Nations. It is our hope that all of those mechanisms will 
be  considered  holistically  and  not  in  isolation,  as  we 
move towards a more concrete post-2015 development 
agenda.
It  is  also  our  sincere  hope  that  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  will  not  be  left  non-fulfilled  and 
that the post-2015 development agenda and sustainable 
development goals (SDGs) are not seen in isolation from 
the MDGs. We hope that the sustainable development 
goals will be seen as a continuation of the MDGs. The 
formulation of the SDGs and the post-2015 development 
agenda  should  complement  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  and  reflect  any  gaps  therein.  We  also  hope 
that  no  nation  will  be  left  without  an  avenue  towards 
progression  and  that  no  small  island  developing  State 
(SIDS) is left behind.
As  we  talk  about  the  development  agenda  that 
we  set  for  ourselves  at  the  turn  of  this  millennium,  I 
cannot help but wonder whether the Maldives and other 
low-lying  island  States  will  survive  to  see  another 
century,  let  alone  another  millennium.  The  Maldives 
is  a  small  nation  with  meagre  resources  that  faces 
numerous  challenges  when  it  comes  to  food,  water 
and  energy  security  —  a  nation  that  has,  despite  our 
small  size,  advocated  loud  and  clear  for  international 
actions to address climate change. We have sought to 
help the world to see that the right to a safe and secure 
environment is a basic human right.
I  urge  all  United  Nations  institutions  to  solidify 
and  strengthen  all  standards  and  move  towards  the 
creation  of  an  international  mechanism.  We  need  to 
strengthen institutions and cultivate a more dependable 
and  consistent  approach  towards  climate  change  and 
the  consequent  human  rights  issues  that  will  become 
the most pressing challenges facing humanity.
For  example,  the  report  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change  presented  to  world  leaders 
just last week underscored the need for urgent action on 
the issue of climate change. The report concludes that, 
in the event of a business-as-usual scenario, low-lying 
nations will face grave existential threats.
What does that mean for the Maldives? With 80 per 
cent of our small nation barely 1.5 metres above sea level 
and  with  more  than  45  per  cent  of  settlements  within 
100 metres of the coastline, all facets of our lifestyle, 
culture  and  economy  depend  almost  exclusively 
on  coastal  and  marine  biodiversity.  At  present,  our 
biodiversity contributes to 70 per cent of our national 
2/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
employment, 49 per cent of public revenue, 62 per cent 
of foreign exchange, 98 per cent of exports and 89 per 
cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product.  Any  loss  of  that 
biodiversity  will  result  in  catastrophic  consequences 
for the Maldives.
Those are facts, but we have known those facts for 
a long time. What we need now is action. Our inaction 
speaks louder than words.
As  a  nation,  Maldives  has  witnessed  the  trials  of 
graduation from LDC status without due consideration 
for the inherent vulnerabilities of small island nations. 
Simply having a high gross national income or a high 
standing  in  the  human  development  index  does  not 
make SIDS less vulnerable to external shocks, including 
emerging  threats  such  as  climate  change;  nor  does  it 
remove the difficulties associated with their smallness 
and remoteness, and in achieving economies of scale.
The  Maldives  is  a  perfect  example  of  a  SIDS 
graduating  from  LDC  status  based  on  distorted  data 
and geographically disassociated global aggregates and 
indices. Even upon graduation, our country continues 
to face numerous economic, social and climate-change 
challenges. That must be a lesson to learn from as we 
develop the post-2015 development agenda.
SIDS  require  differential  treatment  because  of 
their  unique  inherent  vulnerabilities.  That  is  why  the 
Maldives  and  other  countries  in  the  same  plight  have 
been  advocating  relentlessly  to  find  a  comprehensive 
definition  for  SIDS.  SIDS  need  to  be  given  full 
recognition  within  the  global  governance  regimes 
and  multilateral  and 
institutions,  and 
adequately  integrated  and  institutionalized  within  the 
United Nations system. Doing so would help to target 
assistance more effectively. That is also why we support 
the inclusion of a SIDS-focused goal in the post-2015 
development agenda.
financial 
All  of  the  challenges  I  have  outlined  are  key  to 
the  Maldives.  However,  the  most  pressing  challenge 
to  the  Maldives  remains  democracy  consolidation 
and  concerted  efforts  by  external  forces  to  prevent 
the emergence of an indigenous democratic system of 
governance in the Maldives.
A  few  weeks  ago,  the  Maldives  held  its  second 
multiparty elections. It was one of the most competitive 
elections in the country’s history, yet it did not produce 
a clear winner. Some of the parties that competed in the 
election have identified serious issues with the conduct 
of the elections and have asked the Supreme Court of 
the Maldives for a ruling. We are expecting the Court 
to hand down a ruling in the coming days. The integrity 
of the second round of our presidential election cannot 
be  maintained  without  ensuring  the  integrity  of  the 
first  round  through  constitutional  means.  We  await 
the  Supreme  Court’s  verdict  to  continue  the  electoral 
process, allowing for a new President to be sworn in on 
November 11.
However,  some  external  forces  are  attempting  to 
shape the outcome of what in effect is an internal issue. 
The Maldives is small. Our democracy is in its infancy. 
Our  institutions  are  young.  That  does  not,  however, 
mean that larger countries have a right to intervene and 
attempt to dictate outcomes in the domestic affairs of 
the Maldives.
in 
the 
Non-interference 
internal  affairs  of 
sovereign  States  is  a  core  principle  of  the  Charter  of 
the  Organization.  Yet  small  States  have  frequently 
been  the  victims  of  the  predatory  designs  of  larger 
countries.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  Maldives 
initiated resolution 44/51, on “Protection and security 
of small States”, in the Assembly in 1989. The call for 
protecting small States from external threats is further 
reiterated  in  resolutions  46/43  and  49/31,  recognizing 
the particular vulnerabilities of small States to external 
threats and acts of interference in their internal affairs. 
The  resolutions  also  call  on  all  nations  to  respect 
the  principle  of  territorial  integrity  and  national 
sovereignty. Therefore, my delegation trusts the United 
Nations to be the ultimate guarantor of the security of 
small States such as the Maldives.
Democracy consolidation is not just about holding 
elections. Nor is it about having a democratically sound 
Constitution.  In  the  Maldives,  too,  we  quickly  found 
that changing the Constitution, or having a multiparty 
election,  did  not  instil  democratic  values  within  our 
society.
For  democracy  to  be  cultivated  and  consolidated, 
the  supremacy  of  the  Constitution  must  be  upheld 
above  all.  The  institutional  deficiencies  we  face  must 
be  addressed  within  constitutional  provisions,  and 
the  political  leadership  must  sustain  an  unshakeable 
commitment to the principles and values of democracy. 
The rule of law must prevail.
Our 
are 
institutions 
Therefore, 
institution-building and reform remain a key challenge 
for  the  Maldives.  More  importantly,  cultivating  a 
culture of respect for human rights, tolerance, pluralism 
young. 
13-49063
3/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
and freedom remains incredibly important as we move 
through the democratic journey.
Those  are  the  reasons  why  the  Maldives  decided 
to present its bid for re-election to the Human Rights 
Council.  Our  membership  in  the  Council  over  the 
past  three  years  has  helped  the  country  to  take  some 
unprecedented and bold measures to bring the country’s 
national human rights mechanisms up to international 
standards.  The  Maldives  believes  that  its  continued 
membership would help it to further accelerate ongoing 
efforts in modernizing institutions and in promoting a 
culture of respect for human rights and democracy in 
Maldivian society.
Without democracy, the rule of law, human rights 
and  peace  we  would  have  nothing,  we  would  achieve 
nothing,  and  we  would  sustain  nothing.  In  order  to 
tackle the many challenges confronting the Maldives, 
we must adopt an inclusive form of governance where 
the  voices  and  opinions  of  even  the  most  vulnerable 
and  the  most  disadvantaged  in  our  society  are  heard. 
Without equality and justice, societies cannot prosper 
at all.
Democracy  consolidation  is  a  long  and  arduous 
journey,  but  it  is  one  worth  making.  Our  pace  may 
not be as fast as the international community desires. 
But  the  Maldives  is  in  the  process  of  solidifying 
the  foundations  of  our  society  for  development,  for 
democracy and for the protection of human rights. But 
that does not mean that we do not need the international 
community’s assistance.
We know better than most that to be an emerging 
democracy  is  to  be  constantly  challenged  by  volatile, 
new and emerging issues. There is no leeway to stumble, 
no room to hesitate, and we will not falter in our resolve. 
We  will  strengthen  and  redefine  our  institutions.  We 
will adhere to our Constitution. We will work with our 
international partners, and we will move forward as a 
nation and as a sustainable society.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Phandu Skelemani, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Botswana.
Mr.  Skelemani  (Botswana):  Allow  me,  on  behalf 
of the Botswana delegation, to join previous speakers 
in  congratulating  President  Ashe  most  sincerely  on 
his assumption of the presidency of the Assembly. His 
election demonstrates the confidence and high esteem 
in which he personally and his great country, Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  are  held  by  the  States  Members  of  the 
Organization. We particularly admire his deep passion 
and  proven  record  of  leadership  here  at  the  United 
Nations  on  issues  of  sustainable  development  and 
climate change. We are therefore confident that the vast 
knowledge  and  experience  of  multilateral  diplomacy 
which  he  brings  to  this  position  will  contribute 
significantly to the success of this session. May I also 
congratulate  his  predecessor,  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
effective guidance and sterling leadership of the sixty-
seventh session.
My  delegation  fully  endorses  the  theme  he  has 
proposed  for  this  session,  namely,  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  including 
overcoming poverty and insecurity as well as ensuring 
the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
This is quite relevant and fitting given the fact that 
the  international  community  is  on  the  brink  of  two 
major  interrelated  developments  in  the  global  arena: 
the  imminent  target  date  of  2015  for  the  achievement 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
the  evolution  of  the  sustainable  development  goals, 
which  will  constitute  a  significant  part  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda. We therefore pledge our full 
support and cooperation to President Ashe in his efforts 
to usher in a new development paradigm.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  challenges  of  extreme 
poverty,  disease,  lack  of  access  to  affordable  energy, 
potable  water  and  sanitation,  climate  change  and 
gender inequality will continue to haunt millions of our 
people, especially in developing countries.
It  is  on  account  of  this  that  my  delegation  is  of 
the strong view that the formulation of the sustainable 
development  goals  should  be  predicated  on 
the 
outcome  of  the  current  review  of  the  implementation 
of the Millennium Development Goals. To that end, we 
believe that the sustainable development Goals should 
complement the Millennium Development Goals rather 
than replace them wholesale.
Botswana has made impressive achievements in the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
and  we  have  mainstreamed  them  into  our  national 
development planning process. A substantial portion of 
our  national  budget  is  allocated  to  health,  education, 
infrastructure,  human  resource  development  and  the 
empowerment of women and young people.
I am proud to report that we have achieved universal 
primary  education,  as  well  as  universal  access  to 
4/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
treatment,  care  and  support  services. 
HIV/AIDS 
We  have  drastically  reduced 
the  mother-to-child 
transmission  of  HIV/AIDS.  We  are  working  tirelessly 
towards  achieving  zero  new  infections  and  zero 
HIV/AIDS-related deaths by 2015.
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  fight  against 
HIV/AIDS.  Central  to  our  efforts  is  the  commitment 
to  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and  expanding 
access  to  prevention,  treatment  and  care  support 
services for affected populations, including those most 
at risk. In addition, we remain committed to providing 
a good quality of life for all of Botswana. In that regard, 
we  give  the  utmost  priority  to  the  implementation  of 
poverty eradication programmes, with particular focus 
on  vulnerable  communities  and  vulnerable  groups, 
such  as  women,  youth,  the  elderly  and  persons  with 
disabilities.
Despite  all  of  the  achievements  we  have  made  to 
date,  serious  challenges  remain.  Permit  me  to  briefly 
address  the  vexing  subject  of  climate  change  and  the 
situation  of  countries  in  special  categories,  including 
middle-income  countries.  Botswana  is  among  the 
sub-Saharan  African  countries  that  suffer  the  most 
from the adverse impact of climate change. Some of the 
notable  manifestations  of  climate  change  are  extreme 
temperatures,  water  shortages, 
land  degradation, 
desertification and persistent drought. Climate change 
also has adverse impacts on health and food security.
While  it  is  gratifying  that  progress  continues  to 
be  made  in  many  countries  in  the  implementation  of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, my delegation believes that more needs to be 
done, particularly to assist vulnerable countries in arid 
and semi-arid areas and landlocked and transit countries, 
such  as  my  own,  that  are  also  susceptible  to  drought 
and  desertification.  Financial  support, 
technology 
transfer  and  capacity-building  need  to  be  generously 
extended to that special category of countries in order 
to assist them in adapting to and mitigating the effects 
of climate change.
Last  year,  Botswana  hosted 
the  Summit  for 
Sustainability  in  Africa,  whose  outcome  declaration 
calls upon Governments to ensure that the contributions 
of natural capital to sustainable economic growth and 
the  maintenance  and  improvement  of  social  capital 
and  human  well-being  are  quantified  and  integrated 
into  development  and  business  practices.  We  wish 
to  commend  the  work  done  by  non-governmental 
their 
environmental  organizations  worldwide 
in 
unremitting  efforts  to  save  the  planet  from  climate 
change and its negative effects.
Botswana welcomes the adoption earlier this year 
of  the  long-overdue  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  The  Treaty 
establishes  common  international  standards  for  the 
regulation of international trade in conventional arms, 
ammunition and parts and components, with a view to 
strengthening international peace and security. In that 
regard, I am delighted to report that arrangements are 
under way to facilitate our signing and ratification of 
that vital instrument in the very near future.
Botswana remains firmly committed to a strong and 
effective international criminal justice system — hence 
our continued strong support for the mandate and work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  believe  that 
the  Court  has  a  vital  role  to  play  in  the  fight  against 
impunity,  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity and the crime of aggression.
In  that  regard,  last  April,  Botswana  hosted  a 
regional  workshop  for  African  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute. The workshop was aimed at encouraging 
African  States  parties  to  ratify  the  2010  Kampala 
amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute,  which  deal  with 
the specific question of the crime of aggression. I am 
pleased to say that, following the workshop, Botswana 
became  the  first  African  State  party  to  ratify  the 
Kampala  amendments.  We  can  only  hope  that  other 
State parties will follow suit so that we can secure the 
requisite number of ratifications for the amendments to 
enter into force.
Turning  now  to  issues  of  international  peace  and 
security, it defies logic that, throughout the course of 
history, humankind has unleashed untold suffering on 
humankind.  Conflict  is  raging  in  many  parts  of  the 
world, where innocent lives are being lost needlessly. 
My delegation wishes to reiterate that States have a duty 
and  a  responsibility  to  protect  their  populations  from 
war crimes and crimes against humanity and to see to it 
that the perpetrators of such crimes do not benefit from 
impunity. In situations where it is clear that States have 
failed or are unwilling to exercise their responsibility to 
protect, it is only fair and proper that the international 
community  should  intervene.  In  that  regard,  I  refer 
mainly to the responsibility of the Security Council.
For slightly over two years now, the people of Syria 
have  been  engulfed  in  a  brutal  civil  war  whose  end 
seems nowhere in sight. We remain deeply concerned 
that  Syria  continues  to  be  soaked  in  the  blood  of  its 
13-49063
5/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
citizens. We therefore wish to note our disappointment 
with those permanent members of the Security Council 
that  continue 
to  frustrate  resolutions  authorizing 
interventions seeking a lasting solution to the ongoing 
carnage in Syria.
sympathy  to  the  affected  countries  and  the  families 
of  the  deceased.  Those  acts  of  terror  are  a  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security  and  militate  against 
the international community’s efforts to build a secure, 
peaceful and prosperous world.
It is a cause for extreme sadness that, despite the 
ever-worsening humanitarian situation in that country, 
the international community continues to turn a blind 
eye  to  the  situation.  We  fear  that,  if  the  current  state 
of affairs continues, a humanitarian catastrophe of epic 
proportions will unfold and haunt humankind for many 
generations to come. Accordingly, we wish to reiterate 
our position that punitive action in some form should 
be taken against the Al-Assad regime for committing 
crimes against humanity. We appeal once again to the 
Security  Council,  the  organ  with  responsibility  under 
the Charter of the United Nations for the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  to  take  decisive 
action, once and for all, to end the human suffering in 
Syria.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  all 
credible human rights and humanitarian organizations 
for their efforts to relieve human suffering around the 
world. We equally wish to commend those countries in 
the region, especially Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, for 
accommodating and positively responding to the plight 
of refugees from Syria and trying to meet their needs.
The  political  upheaval  in  Egypt  is  also  a  cause 
for  grave  concern.  Naturally,  we  believe  that  former 
President  Morsi  contributed  to  the  present  crisis  by 
attempting to promulgate his undemocratic and divisive 
agenda,  which  resulted  in  an  unfortunate  military 
coup.  Urgent  action  is  therefore  required  to  restore 
constitutional rule in that country.
We  note  with  deep  concern  that,  shortly  after 
celebrating the second anniversary of its independence, 
Africa’s  newest  sovereign  State,  South  Sudan,  has 
experienced  developments  in  its  relations  with  the 
Sudan that seriously threaten its security and territorial 
integrity. At the same time, we remain deeply concerned 
about  the  further  deterioration  of  the  political  and 
humanitarian situation in Darfur. We therefore appeal 
to  the  international  community  to  assist  in  all  ways 
possible to restore peace and stability in that region.
My Government strongly condemns the recent spate 
of  terrorist  attacks  in  Kenya,  Nigeria  and  Pakistan, 
which  have  resulted  in  the  loss  of  many  innocent 
lives. We wish to convey our sincere condolences and 
Such terrorist acts are transnational in nature and 
call  therefore  for  a  global  response.  To  that  end,  we 
appeal  to  the  conscience  and  resolve  of  all  members 
of  the  international  community  to  remain  united  and 
steadfast, if we are to win that fight. There can be no 
doubt  that,  if  left  unchecked,  international  terrorism 
has the potential to undermine our global development 
agenda.
We  find  it  opportune  to  commend  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  vanguard  role  he 
continues  to  play  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  as  well  as  in  addressing  issues 
of  human  suffering  across  the  globe.  The  Secretary-
General  should  also  be  applauded  for  his  continued 
efforts  to  coordinate  international  efforts  to  advance 
the post-2015 development agenda.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana’s 
continued commitment to playing its part in the quest 
for  international  peace  and  security  as  well  as  in  the 
international community’s unrelenting efforts towards 
making the world a safer, peaceful and more prosperous 
place for both present and future generations.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Archbishop  Dominique  Mamberti, 
Secretary  for  Relations  with  States  of  the  Observer 
State of the Holy See.
Archbishop  Mamberti  (Holy  See)  (spoke 
in 
French): At the outset, on behalf of the Holy See, I have 
the honour to congratulate Ambassador John Ashe on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. I am also pleased to convey 
to the President and to other participating delegations 
the warmest greetings from His Holiness Pope Francis, 
who  assures  the  Assembly  of  his  kind  thoughts  and 
prayers that the session will be crowned with success.
In  the  first  days  of  his  pontificate,  Pope  Francis 
inspired enthusiasm and hope for a new horizon based 
on a culture of togetherness that should form the basis 
of  all  personal,  societal  and  international  relations. 
That culture specifically recognizes the value of others: 
the individual, social groups and States. It is founded 
on human dignity and transcendence. It acts to reaffirm 
faith, which is perceived with fear in certain segments 
6/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
of  contemporary  society  and  wrongly  accused  of 
leading  to  intolerance  —  when  in  fact  it  promotes 
understanding and unity among peoples and peace.
It  is  my  hope  that  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  be  inspired  by  the  same  spirit  of 
universal  solidarity  that  was  demonstrated  during  the 
international  day  for  prayer  convened  by  the  Pope  on 
7 September, which brought together religious leaders 
of all faiths. May the session follow that path and inspire 
a new dynamism such that all nations will take action 
to resolve the ongoing conflicts and heal the wounds of 
humankind.
The  choice  of  the  theme  for  this  session —  “The 
post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage” — is 
a timely one. The process of the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  including 
the progress made and the limitations and difficulties 
encountered,  has  demonstrated  the  importance  of 
establishing  common  goals  for  all  members  of  the 
international community that will bring them together, 
galvanize  them  and  assess  their  efforts  —  including 
the United Nations and its specialized entities, regional 
organizations and States. In that regard, it is important 
that at this session the Assembly revisit the fundamental 
concepts that make up the heart of the United Nations, 
as  they  remain  relevant  to  setting  new  goals  for  the 
post-2015 agenda.
In 
the 
context  of 
comprehensive  human 
development,  the  foregoing  should  be  guided  by 
promoting the family, based on the union of a man and 
a woman and the protection of the rights of the family 
as  the  basic  social  nucleus  and  the  foundation  of  all 
stable and sustainable development. Those goals should 
also promote a dignified life for all humankind, from 
the  oldest  to  the  youngest  child  still  at  home,  as  well 
as those living in the most difficult social situations or 
most isolated areas.
As  the  deadline  set  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  approaches,  it  is  easy  to  see  that 
they have not been universally achieved. That is due, in 
part, to limitations and lack of clarity, including along 
ethical  lines,  and  especially  due  to  the  difficulty  in 
creating an efficient consensus on the implementation 
of Goal 8, in view of the resources necessary to achieve 
the seven others.
In terms of that Goal, the decisions made following 
the  2008  crisis  aimed  to  find  an  equitable  way  to 
manage  the  international  financial  sector  and  reform 
the  international  financial  institutions.  Nevertheless, 
it  is  regrettable  to  note  that  discussions  on  measures 
to control the global economy took place among small, 
limited  groups  of  States,  such  as  the  Group  of  20 
(G-20);  they  did  not  include  the  poorest  or  least 
populated  States.  While  that  was  justified  from  a 
practical  point  of  view,  such  an  approach  does  not 
legitimize  its  decisions,  which  could  have  important 
consequences for other States Members of the United 
Nations that are neither direct nor indirect participants 
in the G-20.
In order to guarantee the future implementation of 
common goals for the post-2015 agenda, international 
legal mechanisms must urgently be devised to ensure the 
participation of all States in drafting and implementing 
sweeping shared economic decisions. At the same time, 
it  will  be  insufficient  to  create  financial  or  business 
structures that are recognized as fair and equitable by 
all States if we do not assess the results of the goals in 
the  long  term,  with  the  aim  of  guaranteeing  that  the 
lives of those in need are clearly improving.
therefore 
The  future  development  goals  of  the  post-2015 
agenda  should 
identify  monitoring  and 
adjustment  mechanisms  to  deal  with  economic  trends 
and promote the elimination of hunger worldwide, the 
gradual  disappearance  of  slums,  universal  access  to 
drinking water and improved sanitation for all, among 
other things.
That  framework  would  be  incomplete  without 
considering  an  external  development  factor  that  is 
essential to  the implementation of the MDGs, namely, 
peace.  While  it  is  true  that  injustice  and  excessive 
social  and  economic  inequalities  among  peoples  and 
nations  represent  a  constant  threat  to  peace  and  lead 
to  war,  it  is  also  true  that  war,  terrorism,  organized 
crime and other forms of armed violence at the national 
and international levels represent the most significant 
obstacles to development. Therefore, the matter of the 
post-2015 development agenda should today be viewed 
in the context of the serious conflicts under way — first 
and foremost the conflict in Syria.
In  facing  such  wars  and  massacres,  it  is  crucial 
that  the  international  community  choose  the  path  of 
development, with greater determination and courage. 
If peace is considered the sine qua non of comprehensive 
human development, it is important to return to certain 
basic  principles  that  the  international  community 
solemnly swore to follow nearly 70 years ago.
13-49063
7/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
The United Nations was created, at that time, “to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” 
and “to ensure, by the acceptance of principles and the 
institution  of  methods,  that  armed  force  shall  not  be 
used, save in the common interest”. The right to wage 
war,  which  authorized  the  political  and  autonomous 
use  of  military  force,  was  replaced  by  providing  the 
Security Council with the power to authorize the use of 
force which, under the Charter of the United Nations, 
includes  only  one  exception,  namely,  legitimate  self-
defence,  the  conditions  and  limitations  of  which  are 
described in Article 51 of the Charter.
In  that  context,  it  is  possible  to  consider  that 
following the tragedies of the First World War and the 
Second World War, States created an international set 
of norms that provide legal instruments that establish 
the law based on the highest sense of justice. Indeed, 
international  law  is  no  longer  synonymous  with  the 
laws of the international community, that is, laws based 
on the traditions and customs of various States. Based 
on  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  States  sought 
to  reaffirm  that  international  law  was  a  legal  system 
whose  fundamental  objective,  even  if  it  is  not  the 
only  one,  was  to  control  the  use  of  violence  between 
States, and in which the limitation of the use of force 
to  cases  and  under  the  conditions  stipulated  in  the 
Charter  itself  represents  a  fundamental  constitutional 
norm. Therefore, the limitation of the use of force is the 
primary and essential principle in terms of the ultimate 
goal  of  any  legal  system  aimed  at  the  protection  of 
individuals and their fundamental rights.
It  is  tragic  that  today,  in  spite  of  the  valuable 
United  Nations  legal  principles,  the  implementation 
mechanisms  and  procedures  have  not  managed  to 
prevent  serious  civil  and  regional  conflicts  or  protect 
people. The African continent has many real or potential 
situations of conflict, with dozens of armed groups that 
sow  death  and  suffering  throughout  the  population. 
In that regard, I would particularly like to refer to the 
situation in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo and in the Central African Republic.
The  Middle  East  continues  to  be  a  subject  of 
great concern, and in some countries of the American 
continent drug trafficking has reached the level where 
traffickers  can  wage  war  against  States.  There  are 
also significant hotbeds of tension in many regions of 
Asia. In many of those conflicts, there have been or are 
still United Nations peacekeeping operations working 
in  coordination  with  regional  organizations.  In  that 
regard, a tradition of great merit has been established, 
which  dates  back  to  the  origins  of  the  Organization 
itself.  However,  history  has  also  shown  that,  when 
the necessary means are insufficient or the prevailing 
national and international interests weigh too heavily, 
United Nations intervention cannot be realized or, if it 
is undertaken, has only limited success.
that  have  had  weak 
Despite  those  difficulties,  the  whole  experience 
of  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  developed  by  the 
United  Nations  should  be  seen  as  positive,  including 
those  operations 
immediate 
results, because it is itself a concrete expression of the 
two  key  principles  of  natural  law,  namely,  the  rights 
intrinsically linked to human dignity. The first requires 
that we do everything reasonably possible to avoid war, 
given the evils and injustice that war leads to; and the 
second  affirms  the  permanent  validity  of  moral  law 
during armed conflict. In that regard, acts deliberately 
contrary  to  individual’s  rights  and  those  universal 
principles are crimes, which in the most serious cases 
can be described as crimes against humanity.
It is clear that, in the lives of people, armed conflicts 
have led to deep divisions and serious harm that require 
many  years  to  heal.  Today  the  example  of  greatest 
concern to the entire world is the serious conflict that 
has developed in Syria, which has already led to 110,000 
dead, 4 million internally displaced persons and more 
than  2  million  refugees  in  neighbouring  countries, 
including  in  Lebanon  and  Jordan.  It  risks  becoming 
an international conflict at any moment. In addition to 
the terrible loss of life, the conflict is destroying some 
of  the  richest  heritage  of  history,  culture  and  human 
coexistence, strongly linked to the three monotheistic 
religions and the whole European culture heritage. In 
recalling  the  long  history  during  which,  together,  the 
different parts of society built that heritage and sewed 
the fabric of human relationships, I would like to note 
the  deep  concern  of  the  Holy  See  for  the  fate  of  the 
Christian communities and other minorities, who should 
not be forced in any way into exile, but rather should be 
given a leading role in the future configuration of their 
country, given their contribution to the common good.
the  Independent 
International Commission of Inquiry, established by the 
Human  Rights  Council,  demonstrates  that  massacres 
and other serious violations of human rights have been 
committed  by  the  parties  to  the  conflict.  The  same 
experts vehemently affirmed that there was no possible 
military solution. In that context, the Holy See would 
The  most  recent  report  of 
8/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
like to reaffirm that any action that might aggravate or 
even extend the conflict and increase the unspeakable 
suffering of innocent people should be avoided.
In  his  recent  letter  to  the  Group  of  20  leaders 
meeting in Saint Petersburg, the Holy Father, recalling 
the  responsibility  of  the  international  community 
with  regard  to  Syria,  described  as  regrettable  the 
fact  that  too  many  partisan  interests  had  prevailed 
since  the  Syrian  conflict  began  and  had  prevented 
the finding of a solution to the pointless massacre we 
are witnessing. In recalling his words, I would like to 
urge the leaders of States not to remain indifferent in 
the face of the tragedies that have been afflicting the 
Syrian people for far too long. To each and every one 
of the leaders, in repeating the Pope’s words, I would 
like to make a heartfelt appeal that they find ways to 
overcome  their  differences  and  give  up  any  useless 
attempt  at  a  military  solution.  On  the  contrary,  there 
should be a new commitment to seek, with courage and 
determination,  a  peaceful  solution  through  dialogue 
and negotiation between the interested parties with the 
firm support of the international community. Moreover, 
all the Governments of the world have the moral duty 
to give priority to any initiative that would promote the 
provision of humanitarian assistance to those who are 
suffering on account of the conflict within and outside 
the country.
We would also note that, during the Syrian crisis, 
the bodies and agencies of the United Nations system 
have  sought  to  deploy  all  available  means  to  protect 
civilians. Member States have, for far too long, shown 
a  lack  of  the  courage  needed  to  give  priority  to  the 
international resolution of the conflict. The Secretary-
General recently spoke of the collective failure of the 
international community’s ability to prevent and avoid 
the atrocities committed in Syria. Along those lines, I 
would  like  to  recall  the  concept  of  the  responsibility 
to  protect,  which  the  Secretary-General  also  referred 
to, and I would also like to underscore the importance 
of  that  responsibility  for  the  Holy  See.  The  adoption 
of  a  political  and  legal  concept  of  the  responsibility 
to  protect  during  the  2005  World  Summit,  held  from 
14  to  16  September  2005,  was  a  great  step  forward 
by 
international  community.  Unfortunately, 
the  responsibility  to  protect  has  sometimes  been 
erroneously  understood  to  be  a  justification  for  the 
use  of  arms,  but  in  reality  it  means  something  quite 
different. It is a profound and urgent spirit of solidarity 
that calls upon everyone, starting with heads of State, to 
understand their responsibilities with regard to serious 
the 
humanitarian crises wherever they occur and to commit 
to  ensuring  that  all  emergency  measures  are  put  in 
place — diplomatic and economic measures and those 
related  to  public  opinion,  as  well  as  the  mechanisms 
stipulated  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations —  to 
arrive  at  an  effective  solution.  To  provide  continuity 
to the ongoing debate on the responsibility to protect, 
it would be a good idea to consider ways to explicitly 
include  that  concept  in  the  mandate  of  the  Security 
Council, under Article 24 of the Charter, and possibly 
under Article 39.
In  that  context,  the  Syrian  tragedy  is  both  a 
challenge  and  an  opportunity  for  the  United  Nations 
to breathe new life into all its bodies, mechanisms and 
procedures in a specific, creative and positive manner. 
In  that  regard,  we  must  welcome  the  unanimous 
adoption  by  the  Security  Council  of  resolution  2118 
(2013),  on  27  September.  My  delegation  hopes  that 
the agreement that was reached on that document will 
provide a definite impetus to the Geneva process, so as 
to make it finally possible to restore stability and bring 
about reconciliation in the country.
A  peaceful  and  lasting  solution  to  the  conflict 
in  Syria  would  set  a  significant  precedent  for  the 
upcoming  century  and  would  indicate  the  path  to  be 
taken in addressing other conflicts that the international 
community  has  not  yet  been  able  to  resolve.  It  would 
greatly  facilitate  the  inclusion  of  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  And,  more  generally  from  the  point  of  view 
of  economic  and  social  development,  it  would  be  the 
most  clear  demonstration  of  the  will  to  undertake, 
with  honesty  and  effectiveness,  a  path  of  sustainable 
development post-2015.
Pope  Francis,  through  his  prophetic  words  and 
actions  on  7  September,  launched  a  huge  global 
movement  of  prayer  for  peace,  the  results  of  which 
were immediately clear in the public’s spontaneous and 
sincere support for that goal. The scope of that effort 
went beyond differences of religion, culture, nationality 
or geographical origin, and exerted a strong influence 
on  world  leaders.  Accompanying  the  Holy  Father  and 
under  his  leadership,  the  competent  authorities  of  the 
Holy See also took diplomatic action aimed at stopping 
the violence and promoting dialogue between the parties 
involved  in  the  conflict,  thereby  putting  into  practice 
one  of  the  main  goals  of  their  international  presence.  
Along with the Pope and in line with the theme for this 
session, we would like to reiterate here at the general 
13-49063
9/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
debate that war is the specific refusal to commit to the 
achievement of the major social and economic goals that 
the international community has set for itself. Indeed, 
there can be no economic development without peace. 
Armed conflict never leads to peace, which is crucial 
for that development.
The Holy See believes, in line with the theological 
and  ethical  teaching  of  the  Catholic  Church,  that 
because of the evils and injustices that any war entails, 
we must do everything possible to avoid it. This is also 
why  the  Church  strongly  urges  everyone  to  pray  and 
act  so  that  divine  goodness  frees  us  from  the  ancient 
bondage of war.
My  delegation,  recalling  those  ethical  principles 
that  inspire  and  animate  the  international  activity 
of  the  Holy  See,  has  no  ambition  other  than  to  make 
a contribution of a moral nature to this session of the 
General Assembly, while at the same time expressing 
its recognition for the work done by various bodies and 
United Nations agencies to relieve the suffering caused 
by  the  Syrian  crisis  and  other  conflict  situations.  We 
encourage them to continue their humanitarian work.
My delegation also strongly appeals to all Member 
States to exercise responsibility. Peace will come about, 
and the objectives of comprehensive human development 
for  each  inhabitant  of  the  Earth,  especially  for  the 
weakest and those who have no voice or representation, 
will be achieved if, and only if, every State is capable of 
fully assuming its own responsibilities for the common 
good of all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Pak Ui Chun, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea.
Mr. Pak Ui Chun (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text provided by the 
delegation): First of all, on behalf of the delegation of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, allow me 
to congratulate Mr. John William Ashe on his election 
as the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth  session.  I  am  convinced  that  his  competent 
leadership will lead this session towards success.
the same time aspiring to achieve common prosperity 
and development based on cooperation among Member 
States.  That  aspiration,  however,  is  far  from  coming 
true, even after a new century and the passage of the 
first decade of the new millennium.
and 
arbitrary 
approach 
A  high-handed 
Those  developments  clearly  demonstrate 
is 
becoming ever more rampant in international relations. 
Infringements upon sovereignty, interference in internal 
affairs  and  regime  change  continue  unabated  under 
the pretexts of non-proliferation and the protection of 
human  rights,  for  which  the  United  Nations  is  being 
abused.  Confrontation  between  forces  with  different 
interests,  States  and  civilizations,  and  wars  large  and 
small, keep taking place in different parts of the world, 
severely damaging the credibility of the United Nations, 
whose primary mission is to ensure peace and security.
that 
sustainable  development  and  the  real  protection  of 
human rights will remain a figment of our imagination 
as long as there is no peace and security as stipulated in 
the Charter of the United Nations. International relations 
should  reject  any  State’s  high-handed  and  arbitrary 
approach on the part of a State that undermines peace 
and  security  in  order  to  achieve  genuine  cooperation 
and  development  among  countries  based  on 
the 
sovereign  equality  of  States.  The  unjust  intervention, 
pressure and use of force that is unfolding in Syria by 
way of infringements on its sovereignty and territorial 
integrity,  which  further  breach  peace  and  stability, 
should not be allowed under any circumstances, and the 
United States blockade against Cuba should be brought 
to an end at the earliest possible date.
The 
community 
international 
unanimously 
demands  the  elimination  of  all  nuclear  weapons  and 
encourages the building of a nuclear-weapon-free world 
through  nuclear  disarmament.  As  agreed  at  a  High-
level Meeting on Nuclear Disarmament held during the 
current  session,  on  the  initiative  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, negotiations on nuclear disarmament should 
begin without further delay to work on universal legal 
instruments  that  codify  negative  security  assurances 
and  the  prohibition  of  nuclear  weapons,  among  other 
things.
The  Millennium  Summit,  held  in  2000,  advanced 
peace  and  security,  sustainable  development  and  the 
protection and promotion of human rights as the three 
key  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  Ever  since  the 
inception of the United Nations, humankind has aspired 
to build a new, peaceful world, free from war, while at 
The choice of “The post-2015 development agenda: 
setting the stage” as the theme for the current session 
serves  to  highlight  the  importance  of  sustainable 
development for world peace and our common prosperity. 
We have little time left before the 2015 deadline for the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
10/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
including  poverty  reduction  in  particular.  However, 
much to our regret, international efforts in that regard 
have  not  produced 
long-overdue  results.  By 
identifying  and  successfully  attaining  the  post-2015 
sustainable  development  goals,  practical  measures 
need to be taken to address issues such as establishing 
transferring 
fair 
environmentally  sound 
to  developing 
countries and strengthening financial support.
international  economic  relations, 
the 
technology 
Despite international efforts towards the protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights,  high-handedness 
and  double  standards  are  becoming  ever  more  visible 
in  United  Nations  human  rights  forums,  targeting 
developing  countries  as  selectively  as  in  the  past. 
Politicization, selectivity and double standards should 
be put to an end in such forums, and no one should be 
able to justify or allow the continuation of a situation 
where  the  human  rights  situation  in  some  countries 
is  either  called  into  question  or  simply  ignored  in 
accordance with the political purpose and interests of 
the West and Western values.
The reform of the United Nations is becoming an 
issue  that  brooks  no  further  delay  in  achieving  the 
major United nations goals to which I have referred in 
the twenty-first century.
In addressing key international issues, the General 
Assembly  should  be  empowered  to  have  the  final 
say,  since  it  represents  the  overall  will  of  the  entire 
membership. In particular, Security Council resolutions 
pertaining  to  peace  and  security,  such  as  those  on 
sanctions and the use of force, should be made effective 
only under the authority and with the approval of the 
General  Assembly.  Instances  of  the  Council  being 
abused by a certain State as a tool of strategic interest 
should never go unchallenged.
Last January, under the manipulation of the United 
States, the forcible adoption of an unfair resolution on 
sanctions took place (Security Council resolution 2087 
(2013))  by  making  an  issue  of  our  legitimate  satellite 
launch  for  peaceful  purposes  —  something  that  was 
conducted  and  recognized  under  international  law. 
That represents a typical example of how and for what 
purpose  the  power  of  the  Security  Council  is  being 
abused.  The  reform  of  the  Council,  which  is  a  key 
component  of  reforming  the  United  Nations,  should 
be  undertaken  on  the  basis  of  principles  for  ensuring 
accountability,  transparency  and  impartiality  in  its 
activities,  thereby  ensuring  the  full  representation  of 
developing countries in its composition.
Today  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  the  entire  population  is  engaged  in  an  all-out 
campaign  to  build  a  thriving  socialist  State  in  the 
nearest  possible  future,  under  the  wise  leadership  of 
the  dear  respected  Marshal  Kim  Jong  Un.  Marshal 
Kim Jong Un, the supreme leader of our people, gives 
continuous  on-the-spot  guidance  across  the  country, 
offering  direction  and  innovative  ways  for  speeding 
up  economic  development  and  the  improvement  of 
people’s livelihoods.
Practical  measures  are  being  taken,  one  after 
another,  to  revitalize  the  overall  national  economy, 
bringing  about  success  in  the  fields  of  economic 
development and improving people’s welfare. Nothing 
is  more  precious  than  creating  a  stable  and  peaceful 
environment  for  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Korean  people, 
who  helped  build  economic  power  and  improved 
people’s  livelihoods  as  part  of  the  Government’s 
overall  objective.  Although  our  efforts  for  peaceful 
development  are  faced  with  grave  challenges,  the 
Korean  people  will  surely  bring  about  the  day  of 
final  victory  by  advancing  with  full  confidence  and 
optimism, united single-handedly around Marshal Kim 
Jong Un and under his wise leadership.
Sixty  years  have  passed  since  the  gunfire  that 
ended  a  fierce  three-year-long  war  and  the  signing 
of  the  Armistice  Agreement  in  the  Korean  peninsula 
last  century.  Yet  there  is  still  no  mechanism  in  place 
to  guarantee  peace,  resulting  in  the  continuation  of 
the  unsustainable  situation  —  one  of  neither  war  nor 
peace — on the Korean peninsula.
With the aim of achieving military domination of 
North-East  Asia,  the  United  States,  using  the  Korean 
peninsula  as  a  stepping  stone,  has  designated  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea as its primary 
target of attack and is beefing up its military presence 
in South Korea and the vicinity. Furthermore, it stages a 
series of war exercises against the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea every year, with massive build-ups 
of hundreds of thousands of troops and modern military 
equipment,  continuously  escalating  confrontation  and 
fuelling tensions.
The United Nations Command, the outdated legacy 
of the Korean War, continues to serve the United States 
military  strategy  by  abusing  the  name  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  United  Nations  Command,  which  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  United  Nations,  continuously 
conducts  military  actions  threatening  the  Korean 
13-49063
11/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
peninsula and its surrounding area in the name of the 
United Nations under the baton of the United States. That 
shows that resolution 3390 (XXX), which the Assembly 
adopted at its thirtieth session and which calls for the 
dissolution  of  the  United  Nations  Command,  remains 
nothing  more  than  a  piece  of  paper.  It  also  shows  to 
what  extent  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  has 
been undermined.
The repeated vicious cycle of mounting tensions on 
the Korean peninsula has its roots in the hostile policy 
of  the  United  States  towards  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  The  United  States  designated 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  with  its 
different  ideology  and  system,  as  its  enemy  from  the 
very day of its foundation and has refused to recognize 
its sovereignty and has imposed all sorts of sanctions, 
pressure and military threats on the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea for more than half a century.
The  only  way  to  ensure  lasting  peace  on  the 
Korean peninsula is to bring the hostile United States 
policy to an end. The United States should abolish its 
hostile  policy  by,  among  other  things,  respecting  the 
sovereignty  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, replacing the Armistice Agreement with a peace 
mechanism, dismantling the United Nations Command 
without  further  delay  and  lifting  all  sanctions  and 
military threats.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
remains  consistent  in  its  stance  and  in  its  efforts  to 
put an end to the tensions on the Korean peninsula by 
peaceful  means  through  dialogue  and  negotiations, 
and  to  contribute  to  ensuring  peace  and  security  in 
the region. In order to achieve genuine peace and ease 
tensions on the Korean peninsula, we are making every 
possible effort and displaying maximum patience.
Reunifying the country is a long-cherished desire 
and  the  most  pressing  task  of  the  Korean  nation.  As 
we  entered  the  new  century,  North-South  summit 
meetings  were  held  on  two  occasions,  with  joyful 
enthusiasm  shared  by  all  our  countrymen,  adopting 
the  15  June  North-South  joint  declaration  and  the 
4  October  declaration,  thus  providing  a  milestone  for 
reconciliation, collaboration and reunification between 
the North and South of Korea.
Thanks  to  the  active  and  generous  efforts  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  a  window  of 
opportunity  has  opened  for  improving  North-South 
relations after a long period of deadlock. However, the 
outdated  confrontational  approach  we  are  coming  up 
against from the South Korean authorities risks driving 
relations back into a destructive stage.
As  clarified  by  the  15  June  joint  declaration  and 
the 4 October declaration, the only way to achieve the 
peaceful  reunification  of  the  country  and  to  open  the 
way forward for the nation is to promote dialogue and 
cooperation between the North and South of Korea by 
joining hands in the spirit of the Korean nation itself.
We  will  work  hand  in  hand  with  anyone  who 
truly  seeks  reconciliation  and  the  reunification  and 
prosperity of the nation. We will strive to accomplish 
the historic cause of national reunification through the 
concerted efforts of the nation under the 15 June joint 
declaration and the 4 October declaration.
In conclusion, the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea will continue to strengthen and develop friendly 
and  cooperative  relations  with  all  States  Members  of 
the United Nations, support the placing of the situation 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  under  stable  management  as 
a  member  of  the  international  community,  and  fully 
exercise  its  responsibility  and  role  in  ensuring  world 
peace  and  the  common  prosperity  of  humankind, 
pursuant to its foreign policy of ideals, independence, 
peace and friendship.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Manuel  Trullols, 
Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Dominican 
Republic.
Mr.  Trullols 
(Dominican  Republic) 
(spoke 
in  Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  express  my 
congratulations to the President of the General Assembly 
upon  his  election  to  preside  over  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-eighth session. I wish him the greatest of success 
in his task and in his efforts to promote the initiatives 
proposed for his term.
I  am  here  as  a  representative  of  the  Dominican 
Republic,  which  was  one  of  the  signatories  in  1945 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  entrusts 
the  Organization  with  the  monumental  task  of  saving 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war. In the 
68 years since its inception, there has not been another 
world  war,  but  today  we  are  facing  a  cataclysm  that 
is  just  as  lethal  and  destructive  as  a  war  of  planetary 
dimensions: global poverty. It is a war with casualties 
in  the  millions,  which  calls  for  a  radical  change  in 
the  economic  paradigm  and  for  the  forging  of  a  new 
culture — the culture of sustainability. As I address the 
12/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Assembly, there is no doubt in my mind that to triumph 
over such a daunting challenge, all nations must make 
difficult decisions, which will require the full weight of 
our collective responsibility.
Allow  me  to  refer  to  the  extensive  and  detailed 
document adopted at the Rio de Janeiro United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) last 
year  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  entitled  “The  future 
we  want”.  In  that  text,  Member  States  renewed  their 
commitment  to  sustainable  development  and  to  the 
promotion of a future that is sustainable in economic, 
social and environmental terms for our planet and for 
present and future generations. That declaration shows 
that the leaders of the world’s nations are committed to 
doing what is needed to attain that future. We therefore 
have a road map with profound implications.
that  we  are 
Let  us  acknowledge 
taking  on 
an  overwhelming  responsibility,  because  we  are 
committing ourselves to building a reality that is totally 
unprecedented in the modern world. Let us acknowledge 
that  development  to  date  has  not  been  sustainable  in 
any  way.  It  has  not  been  sustainable  either  socially 
or  economically.  It  has  been  even  less  sustainable  in 
environmental  terms.  The  systems  of  production  that 
we  have  used  to  achieve  economic  growth  have  been 
based  on  methods  that  have  proved  to  be  harmful  to 
the  environment,  and  the  systems  that  we  have  used 
to  distribute  the  wealth  produced  have  created  deep 
chasms of social inequality and exclusion.
Over time, we have reached a situation that we now 
consider to be intolerable: a world in which more than 
1 billion people are living in a state of extreme poverty 
and hunger; a world in which many millions of human 
beings lack adequate health care, drinking water, good-
quality education or decent employment; and a world in 
which extreme malnutrition and social exclusion prevail 
to a morally unacceptable extent. If we aspire to a world 
where development is sustainable, we must first accept 
our  shared  responsibility  for  all  parts  of  all  societies, 
and agree that it is time for actions, not words.
To  translate  a  commitment  of  such  a  magnitude 
into reality, it must be based on achievable actions and 
attainable goals, and we must be prepared to take bold 
action,  as  we  are  doing  in  the  Dominican  Republic, 
on  several  unprecedented  fronts.  We  are  putting 
citizens  at  the  centre  of  our  policies  and  making  the 
fight  against  poverty  and  inequality  our  top  priority. 
We are implementing a new development model based 
on a long-term national strategy built on the pillars of 
three fundamental social pacts: a fiscal pact, a pact for 
education  and  a  pact  for  electricity.  We  are  building 
transparency into Government actions and establishing 
citizens’ groups to oversee and monitor purchasing and 
contract  systems.  We  are  making  support  for  small-
scale agricultural producers a priority. We are doubling 
the  budget  for  free  and  compulsory  public  education. 
We are extending the school day, and we are putting a 
permanent end to illiteracy.
Following  the  commitments  made  at  the  Rio+20 
Conference,  we  have  taken  a  few  steps  forward  and 
are moving towards an agreement on a road map that 
will  lead  us  to  sustainable  development  and  to  the 
eradication of extreme poverty. We have implemented 
a process to determine as accurately as possible what 
the  sustainable  development  goals  for  the  post-2015 
international development agenda should be.
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  we  all  agree  that  the 
greatest challenge the world faces is to eradicate poverty 
and, for that reason, that goal has been given top priority 
on the agenda of our people and our Organization.
Our  countries  have  common  problems,  but  our 
economic, social, historical, geographical, demographic 
and  cultural  realities  are  different.  Each  of  those 
dimensions  plays  a  role  in  how  those  problems  may 
or  may  not  be  addressed  and  resolved.  Moreover,  our 
responsibilities for the creation of or the aggravation of 
those  common  problems,  such  as  climate  change,  are 
clearly differentiated.
My  country,  the  Dominican  Republic,  suffers 
the  consequences  of  climate  change,  because  of  its 
geographical location in the path of annual hurricanes 
and  tropical  storms.  For  that  reason,  we  are  working 
to  strengthen  and  improve  our  preparedness  for  the 
management of risks associated with natural disasters. 
We  are  building  a  collection  centre  for  emergency 
assistance and are working on the creation of a centre 
of excellence, dedicated to the education and training 
of  human  resources  for  assistance  in  disasters,  which 
will serve the nations in the entire Caribbean region.
Next  month,  from  18 
the 
Dominican  Republic  will  host  the  third  International 
Conference  on  the  HOPEFOR  initiative,  to  which  all 
Members of the United Nations are cordially invited.
to  20  November, 
Universal  sustainable  development  is  a  goal  that 
requires a new vision and approach on the international 
stage.  In  order  for  development  to  be  sustainable  in 
our nations, we must undertake structural reforms that 
13-49063
13/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
will change many of our policies and our economic and 
social systems, turning them inside out, the way a sock 
is turned inside out. With sustainable development, we 
have  taken  on  a  commitment  of  biblical  proportions, 
a  universal  commitment  to  care  for  our  brothers  and 
sisters, especially for those who most need to be elevated 
to the conditions required for adignified human life.
The Organization is helping to point the way with 
the  launch  of  parallel  processes  of  study,  discussion 
and analysis; panels of eminent persons; consultations 
with  regional  economic  commissions;  the  Leadership 
Council  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Solutions 
Network; and the open-ended working groups that are 
contributing to marking the path.
We  would  therefore  like  to  take  the  opportunity 
to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  work  done  by 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in putting documents 
in the hands of Member States that will serve as a guide 
for our debates and our decisions. One such document, 
An  Action  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  a 
report  prepared  for  the  Secretary-General  in  June  by 
the Leadership Council of the Sustainable Development 
Solutions  Network,  is  a  bold  and  optimistic  platform. 
It  is  an  exhaustive  and  practical  plan  that  requires 
a  collective  commitment  that  we  cannot  shirk.  All 
reports agree that we cannot continue treating the part 
of the planet that each of our nations occupies as if the 
resources  that  nature  has  generously  put  within  them 
were inexhaustible. The world’s forests, water supplies 
and  mineral  resources  are  decreasing,  and  animal 
species are endangered. At the same time, we continue 
to use methods of cultivation that poison or impoverish 
the  Earth  and  methods  of  industrial  production  that 
poison the air we breathe.
We  must  revise  the  very  methods  by  which  our 
economic growth is driven. That is not a new concern 
for  the  United  Nations.  We  have  been  talking  about 
sustainable development for decades. What is new now 
is that the situation has become a matter of urgency.
The time for words and promises is over. The time 
for action is now. We must step up the pace to establish 
the  foundations  of  sustainable  development,  because 
time  is  running  out.  We  must  address  the  purpose, 
knowing  that  what  we  do  or  do  not  agree  upon  in 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  may  determine 
whether the future of our peoples, or rather, the future 
of  humankind,  will  be  promising  or  miserable.  That 
presumption may seem exaggerated to representatives 
of  larger  or  more  highly  developed  nations.  If  so,  we 
invite  those  nations  to  look  beyond  their  borders  and 
to  consider  the  peoples  of  the  nations  from  which 
they seek cheap labour. They must look at the peoples 
whose  human  resources  they  employ  to  produce  their 
goods and services. They must look at the peoples in 
the countries that need the industries of the developed 
countries  to  process  their  mineral  exports  and  at  the 
peoples  in  the  countries  where  they  want  to  market 
their products.
For many of those people, the situation is intolerable. 
That is why we are pleased to note that the documents 
that have already been written and which are intended 
to  serve  as  a  platform  for  our  debates  and  decisions 
have an optimistic tone. They give us, for example, the 
assurance that if we act now, the problems we face will 
not become insoluble.
Universal 
sustainable 
development,  which 
addresses  the  challenges  that  have  been  so  clearly 
identified, will translate into social justice in the world. 
It  will  also  translate  into  peace,  international  peace, 
the  achievement  of  which  is  a  strategic  goal  of  the 
Organization.
To speak of eradicating extreme poverty, measured 
in  terms  of  living  on  an  income  of  less  than  $1.25  a 
day, sounds like an enormous goal, especially because 
it is estimated that some 1.2 billion people in the world 
suffer from poverty. In reality, that is just one step in 
a long journey. If those who are now below the income 
level of $1.25 per day are elevated to an income level 
of  $2  per  day,  we  will  have  eliminated  what  we  now 
call extreme poverty. However, we all know that human 
beings cannot meet their basic needs on an income of 
$2 per day. The difference in hardship between the one 
income range and the other is not very noticeable. What 
happens  is  that  talking  about  poverty  in  statistical 
terms does not allow us to visualize, much less feel, the 
reality of the human misery and desolation behind the 
numbers and the percentages. How can we understand 
the pain of a father and mother who have suffered the 
loss  of  their  child  when  the  words  in  which  we  are 
informed  about  that  family  tragedy  are  that  every  10 
seconds a child dies from hunger-related causes in the 
world?
Let  us  put  ourselves  in  the  place  of  parents  of 
families  living  in  a  state  of  extreme  poverty.  They 
have to raise their children in extremely unsafe living 
conditions,  without  sanitation  or  safe  drinking  water, 
without  sufficient  resources  to  buy  medicine  or  to 
provide each child with food to ensure proper nutrition, 
14/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
without  resources,  without  a  bed  or  mosquito  net  to 
protect him from insects that transmit serious diseases. 
They have to decide which of their children can go to 
school  and  which  cannot,  or  which  of  their  children 
have to work and which do not.
We know that a difficult road still remains ahead 
before we can agree on a satisfactory arrangement for 
all in regard to the post-2015 international development 
agenda  and  the  most  effective  ways  to  implement 
it.  Let  us  remember  that  what  we  need  is  not  a  new 
commitment.  We  have  had  many  commitments  to 
eradicate extreme poverty and hunger. We have had the 
World Food Summit of 1996, the Millennium Summit 
in 2000, another World Food Summit five years later in 
2002, and the recent Rio+20 Conference in 2012. What 
we  need  now  is  for  those  commitments  to  finally  be 
translated into political action.
Although  sustainable  development  may  sound 
like  an  economic  concept,  it  really  is  a  political 
concept. That is why we are discussing it here, at the 
Organization, which is a forum of States and therefore a 
political forum. Economists measure the dimensions or 
the pillars of reality in economic terms. Economists and 
other specialists can set the goals that must be reached 
for  a  sustainable  development  that  meets  their  exact 
specifications.  But  political  decisions  are  the  driving 
force. Political decisions are what ultimately determine 
whether or not the goals are achieved.
We  therefore  have  the  primary  responsibility.  It 
depends on us to put the declarations of good intentions 
into action.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Kosal Sea, head of 
the delegation of the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr.  Sea  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session. My delegation has full confidence that under 
his  able  leadership  the  new  session  will  draw  to  a 
successful  conclusion.  The  President  can  rest  assured 
of Cambodia’s full support and cooperation throughout 
his presidency.
This  year 
theme,  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting 
is  very 
timely  as  we  have  less  than  1,000  days  to  reach  the 
Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG)  targets.  That 
development agenda will be one of the most ambitious 
projects undertaken by the United Nations, in which all 
session’s 
the  stage,” 
nations will be called upon to galvanize efforts to help 
the  world  live  up  to  its  commitments  to  end  poverty, 
educate children, empower women and provide health 
services for all.
While  the  overall  picture  is  encouraging,  we 
must  also  recognize  that  the  progress  made  towards 
attaining the MDGs has been insufficient and uneven. 
Poverty is still widespread, with more than one billion 
people  living  in  extreme  poverty.  High  maternal  and 
child mortality rates are still seen in too many places 
throughout  the  developing  world.  Most  developing 
countries still face many obstacles to the achievement 
of  all  the  MDGs  within  the  allocated  time  frame 
of  2015,  owing  to  their  vulnerability  to  the  global 
financial  crisis,  their  debt  burdens  and  the  failure  of 
some developed countries to meet official development 
assistance (ODA) commitments.
It  is  high  time  for  donor  countries  to  fulfil  their 
ODA pledges. In addition, debt relief is one of several 
financial-assistance  instruments  which  can  enhance 
the developing countries’ ability to eradicate poverty. 
Furthermore,  facilitating  the  transfer  of  technology 
from  the  developed  to  the  developing  world  plays 
a  critical  role  in  helping  countries  to  further  their 
development  efforts  and  accelerate  their  economic 
growth.
the  cornerstone  of 
In  the  case  of  Cambodia,  the  MDGs  are  firmly 
embedded  as 
the  country’s 
development  policies  and  strategies.  In  a  country 
whose  entire  population  once  faced  abject  poverty 
and  hunger  after  emerging  from  war  and  genocide  in 
1979, the  number  of  people  living  below  the  national 
poverty  line  dropped  steadily,  reaching  19.8  per  cent 
in 2011. The country is well on track — if not ahead of 
schedule — in terms of attaining its poverty-reduction 
goal  of  19.5  per  cent.  In  fact,  Cambodia  received  a 
United Nations award for reducing hunger by half well 
ahead of the MDG target. In general, my country is well 
positioned to meet most of the Goals on schedule by the 
end of 2015, thanks not only to the Government’s sound 
approach  and  firm  commitment  but  also  to  sustained 
peace and political stability.
In  adopting  the  MDGs,  we  acknowledged  that 
sustained and inclusive economic growth in developing 
countries  was  a  key  requirement  for  eradicating 
poverty  and  meeting  the  targets.  In  that  context,  my 
delegation highly appreciates the far-sighted report of 
the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda,  which  is    entitled  A  New 
13-49063
15/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
Global Partnership: Eradicate Poverty and Transform 
Economies  through  Sustainable  Development, and 
which sets forth a universal agenda to eradicate extreme 
poverty from our world by 2030 and to deliver on the 
promise of sustainable development.
the  spirit  of 
Cambodia believes that the post-2015 development 
agenda  should  carry  forward 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  in  various  ways:  first,  by 
setting  out  a  balanced  integration  of  the  economic, 
social  and  environmental  dimensions  for  sustainable 
development;  secondly,  by  aiming  at  the  completion 
of  the  work  started  under  the  MDGs,  particularly 
the  goal  of  eradicating  extreme  poverty;  thirdly,  by 
emphasizing 
inclusive,  equitable  and  sustainable 
development and economic growth aimed at effectively 
addressing inequality and any associated factors; and, 
fourthly, by focusing not only on the global dimension 
of  development,  but  also  on  its  regional  dimension, 
while taking into account the particular challenges of 
the least developed countries.
With  regard  to  the  nineteenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Warsaw  in  November,  my  country  has  high  hopes 
that the Conference will ratify the second commitment 
period  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol  by  2015.  Cambodia 
greatly appreciates the developed countries’ continued 
commitment to providing funds and technology to help 
developing nations tackle climate change, in accordance 
with  the  United  Nations  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities.
Global and regional peace and security are currently 
threatened  by  conflicts,  armed  confrontation  and 
transnational organized crime, which take a heavy toll 
on  many  development  efforts.  Against  that  backdrop, 
Cambodia  welcomes  the  signing  of  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty, the first ever international treaty to regulate the 
trade of conventional weapons.
Another security issue is the presence of landmines 
and other explosive remnants of war, which continue to 
pose constant threats to human security and safety and 
hinder national development. To counter those threats, 
last year in Phnom Penh the leaders of the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  decided  to 
establish the ASEAN Regional Mine Action Center and 
to base it in Cambodia.
For its part, Cambodia has spared no effort to address 
the issue of landmines. To that end, it has established 
demining and clearance of other unexploded ordnance 
as an additional MDG of its own. Substantial progress 
has been made in realizing that goal, as is demonstrated 
by the sharp decline in the number of mine explosion 
accidents  in  Cambodia,  from  over  300  cases  in  2008 
to  186  in  2012.  As  Chair  of  the  Eleventh  Meeting  of 
the  States  Parties  to  the  Mine  Ban  Treaty,  or  Ottawa 
Treaty, Cambodia made a strong commitment to work 
towards  a  world  free  of  landmines  and  unexploded 
ordnance.  Since  2006,  Cambodia  has  contributed  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  by  sending 
mine-clearance  experts  to  a  number  of  countries  in 
Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Sudan, 
South Sudan, the Central African Republic, Chad and 
Lebanon, and very soon to Mali.
On  the  situation  in  the  Korean  peninsula,  we 
welcome  the  positive  developments  between  North 
Korea and South Korea, which, I hope, will lead to a 
significant improvement in inter-Korean relations and 
the resumption of the Six-Party Talks. We encourage the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply fully 
with its obligations to cease its nuclear programme, as 
spelled out by the relevant Security Council resolutions.
My country reaffirms its support for the Palestinian 
people’s just demand for a sovereign and independent 
State of Palestine and for the two-State solution to the 
Palestine-Israel conflict. We urge all parties to play a 
constructive role in the efforts aimed at resuming peace 
talks and to remove any obstacles standing in the way 
of such resumption.
With  regard  to  the  Syrian  situation,  Cambodia 
strongly  condemns  human  rights  violations  and  the 
use of chemical weapons. My delegation fully supports 
Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013),  adopted  on 
Friday  with  the  aim  of  destroying  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons.
My delegation also calls for an end to the unilateral 
embargo on Cuba, which has caused the Cuban people 
decades of untold suffering.
We  are  seriously  concerned  about  the  extensive 
levels of sexual violence inflicted on innocent women 
and  children  in  armed  conflicts  around  the  world. 
My  country  endorses  the  declaration  of  commitment 
on  ending  sexual  violence  in  conflict,  issued  on 
24 September at a side event during the general debate.
The President took the Chair.
16/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
1945, the world situation has changed so dramatically that 
there is an urgent need to strengthen global diplomacy. 
In that context, the reform of the United Nations should 
be  comprehensive  and  include  not  only  the  Security 
Council  but  also  other  organs,  so  as  to  maintain  the 
Organization’s  relevance  as  a  global  governance 
institution that can cope effectively with world reality. 
The General Assembly should be empowered to play a 
greater leading role in strengthening the wider United 
Nations  system,  improving  international  governance 
and  enhancing  multilateralism.  At  the  same  time, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  should  also  be 
strengthened,  so  that  it  can  effectively  coordinate 
international  cooperation  and  efforts  to  tackle  social 
and  economic  challenges.  Both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent membership categories of the Security 
Council  should  be  expanded  in  an  equitable  manner, 
so  that  the  Council  represents  both  developed  and 
developing  countries.  A  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Council to make it a body where real negotiations and 
compromises can take place is acutely needed.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Vince Henderson, head of the delegation 
of Dominica.
Mr. Henderson (Dominica): I would like to begin 
by congratulating you, President Ashe, from our sister 
island of Antigua and Barbuda, which is also a member 
of  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  and 
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), on your well-
deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. The Government 
and the people of the Commonwealth of Dominica are 
proud  of  your  appointment  and  wish  you  success  in 
presiding over the General Assembly. We also express 
our appreciation and gratitude to your predecessor, His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his  guidance  during 
the sixty-seventh session.
Thirteen  years  after  collectively  committing  to 
meeting the needs of the poorest among us by attaining 
our  noble  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
we  have  made  some  progress  globally,  but  we  are 
still  far  from  fully  reaching  our  targets.  Despite  the 
challenges  brought  about  by  an  increasingly  hostile 
global  environment,  Dominica  has  made  meaningful 
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  Government  of  Dominica 
has accepted that it is through the development of our 
human  resources  that  we  will  be  able  to  truly  attain 
development  that  is  inclusive  and  sustainable.  As  a 
result, our Government has kept our people at the centre 
of development.
able 
to  bring 
We  have  been 
significant 
improvements in the lives of our people and to attain 
all  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  despite  our 
limitations.  We  have  reduced  poverty  and  hunger 
by  more  than  half.  Our  children,  boys  and  girls,  now 
have  universal  access  to  both  primary  and  secondary 
education, as well as expanded access to post-secondary 
education  and  training.  Our  girls  and  women  are  not 
only being treated as equals with boys and men but have 
received tremendous support in improving their living 
conditions. Our elderly people and children enjoy free 
access to public health care.
Dominica  has  continued  to  maintain  its  coveted 
title of “nature island of the Caribbean” by adhering to 
self-imposed sustainable environmental practices over 
the  past  several  decades,  a  model  that  we  hope  more 
States around the world can emulate.
As  we  approach  2015,  we  must  resolve  to  take 
stock. We must be forever mindful that those who are 
condemned  to  poverty  still  await  our  intervention. 
The more than 1 billion people who have known only 
darkness  at  the  end  of  each  day  long  for  at  least  one 
light bulb in a rural home so that their children can have 
opportunities for a brighter tomorrow. We have run out 
of excuses for why we are still waiting to act or cannot 
act. Rest assured that our people will judge us harshly 
for failing to make a difference in their lives.
Despite the current global challenges, South-South 
cooperation  continues  to  play  a  significant  role  in 
helping small countries like Dominica to achieve their 
Millennium Development Goals. The Government and 
people  of  Dominica  express  their  sincere  gratitude  to 
the  Governments  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
Venezuela,  Cuba,  Morocco,  the  European  Union,  the 
Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America 
and  other  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  for  the 
tremendous contributions they have made, and continue 
to  make,  in  the  development  of  our  human-resource 
capacity and infrastructure and in the implementation 
of our public-sector investment programme.
Our  commitment  to  the  MDGs  should  consist  of 
a  redoubling  of  efforts  towards  a  post-2015  agenda 
that will bring about development that is inclusive and 
sustainable.  The  outcome  of  the  2012  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
13-49063
17/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
66/288, annex) initiated an inclusive intergovernmental 
process for preparing a set of sustainable development 
goals  (SDGs).  My  delegation  believes  that  in  order  to 
arrive  at  a  global  development  agenda  for  the  post-
2015  period,  there  must  be  close  linkages  between 
the  processes  of  the  MDGs  and  the  SDGs.  The 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  therefore  aligns  itself 
with  the  theme  set  by  you,  Mr.  President,  “The  post-
2015 development agenda: setting the stage”.
It  is  imperative  that  the  development  agenda 
beyond  2015  remain  the  focus  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly in terms of relieving poverty and protecting 
our planet. A meaningful agenda must take into account 
the significance of the need for an international legally 
binding commitment to combating climate change, the 
development and deployment of sustainable energy, the 
sustainable  use  of  the  oceans  and  marine  resources, 
sustainable  industrial  development,  and  international 
peace and security.
My  delegation  applauds  the  leadership  and  vision 
shown by the Secretary-General in declaring sustainable 
energy  to  be  one  of  the  priorities  of  his  second  term. 
We also congratulate the Secretary-General’s Advisory 
Group  on  Energy  and  Climate  Change,  as  well  as 
colleagues  within  and  outside  the  United  Nations 
system,  for  their  timely  recommendations  and  for 
bringing needed visibility to the subject of sustainable 
energy. Their recommendations form the basis for one 
of  the  most  important  initiatives  ever  launched  by  a 
Secretary-General, namely, the Sustainable Energy for 
All initiative, launched in 2011. Through that visionary 
step,  the  Secretary-General  has  closed  the  gaping 
energy-poverty gap in the MDGs.
Actions  that  will  benefit  our  peoples  should  be 
at  the  heart  of  the  functions  of  the  Assembly.  The 
Commonwealth of Dominica and other small and low-
lying developing States that are members of the Small 
Island Developing States Sustainable Energy Initiative 
are grateful to the Secretary-General for his dedication, 
personal  commitment  and  actions  in  helping  to  make 
the  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative  a  reality. 
That initiative stands to benefit our people across the 
developing  world  and  to  contribute  to  more  efficient 
energy systems in developed countries.
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  maintains  that 
sustainable  energy  is  the  foundation  for  long-term 
socioeconomic development. For that reason, Dominica 
is pleased to have joined the Sustainable Energy for All 
partnership.  My  Government,  with  assistance  from 
its  development  partners,  is  committed  to  increasing 
renewable  energy  generation  from  the  current  30  per 
cent from hydro to 100 per cent by adding geothermal 
energy  to  the  mix.  Our  goal  is  to  become  not  only 
carbon-neutral  but  carbon-negative  by  2020.  That 
ambition  will  be  achieved  by  exporting  renewable 
energy to our neighbours, Guadeloupe and Martinique, 
via  submarine  cables.  We  thank  our  partners,  and 
especially  the  Clinton  Climate  Initiative,  part  of  the 
Clinton Foundation, for their support in this endeavour.
to  a  sustainable  energy 
sector  will  deliver  multiple  significant  benefits  for 
Dominica,  including  increasing  employment  from 
new  energy-service  companies,  minimizing  foreign 
-exchange  transfers  for  petroleum  imports,  reducing 
the  cost  of  energy  and  minimizing  the  volatility  and 
unpredictability  of  energy  prices.  Recognizing  the 
inextricable link between energy and development, we 
expect that sustainable energy will find its rightful place 
on the agenda of the third International Conference on 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  to  be  held  in  Apia, 
Samoa, in 2014.
transformation 
That 
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  is  privileged  to 
be  the  chair  of  the  31-member  Steering  Committee 
of  the  Small  Island  Developing  States  Sustainable 
Energy  Initiative,  which  is  charged  with  guiding  the 
development  of  the  Initiative.  I  would  therefore,  on 
behalf  of  our  members,  like  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation to the Governments of Denmark and Japan 
for their recognition and their financial support to the 
Initiative. The Initiative is well positioned to help tackle 
the  effects  of  climate  change  while  at  the  same  time 
transforming energy sectors in small island developing 
States such as Dominica.
Our  Danish  partners  took  the  first  bold  move  to 
support the Initiative, which was the catalyst for support 
from the Government of Japan. Assistance from Japan 
will be invested in the first-ever ocean thermal energy 
feasibility study in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 
Ocean  thermal  energy  is  a  resource  common  to  all 
SIDS and represents a vast sustainable energy resource 
that,  once  developed,  could  also  address  a  number  of 
key  climate-change  adaptation  challenges  for  islands, 
specifically  in  the  area  of  fresh  water  and  improved 
food security.
About two thirds of the world’s surface is covered 
by oceans and seas connecting almost 90 per cent of the 
world’s population. Oceans and seas remain the source 
of food and livelihood for nearly 1 billion people. A post-
18/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
2015 agenda must address the important role of seas and 
oceans to the survival of peoples throughout the world, 
especially  those  who  live  on  islands.  A  sustainable 
development goal on oceans should therefore ensure that 
all fish stocks are harvested sustainably and preserve 
the health of the marine environment. That will require 
the protection of marine areas, the reduction of ocean 
acidification,  the  elimination  of  marine  pollution  and 
the cessation of disruptive fishing practices.
There 
is  general  consensus 
that  sustainable 
development  and  poverty  eradication  should  form 
the  core  of  the  SDGs  and  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  We  cannot  address  the  issue  of  poverty 
eradication  without  addressing  the  issues  of  wealth 
creation  and  economic  growth.  Developing  countries, 
SIDS  in  particular,  will  be  able  to  secure  inclusive 
and  sustained  economic  growth  only  through  the 
development  of  the  energy,  agriculture  and  tourism 
sectors  and  associated  industries.  Broad-based  job 
creation  and  the  achievement  of  social  goals,  such  as 
education,  women’s  empowerment  and  health  care, 
require sustainable industrial development.
industrialization  must  be 
It  must  be  underscored  that,  in  the  twenty-first 
inclusive  and 
century, 
sustainable  if  all  our  present  and  future  generations 
are  to  benefit.  It  must  incorporate  all  citizens  and  be 
strategically tailored to preserve livelihoods for future 
generations.
Sustainable  development  goals,  however,  cannot 
be  achieved  in  the  midst  of  wars  between  or  within 
nations.  The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  condemns 
the act of terrorism at the Westgate Shopping Mall in 
Nairobi. We extend our condolences to the Government 
and  the  people  of  Kenya  and  to  the  families  of  the 
Kenyans and the foreign nationals who met their deaths 
at  the  hands  of  those  who  have  no  respect  for  human 
life. We must continue to fight terrorism in all its forms 
and manifestations.
The  economic  embargo  against  our  brothers  and 
sisters in Cuba continues to be a concern for us in the 
Caribbean.  Unilateral  actions  by  the  United  States  of 
America continue to be the root cause of the suffering 
of  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Republic  of  Cuba. 
Our  region  of  the  Caribbean  continues  to  witness  the 
unheeded call for the lifting of a half-century economic 
embargo  on  our  brothers  and  sisters.  We  call  on  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  to  support  the  full 
integration of the Cuban people into the global trading 
system. That will help to improve their lives and allow 
the world to benefit from the tremendous contributions 
they are capable of making, especially in the areas of 
science and technology.
The ongoing civil war in Syria continues to present 
a  major  challenge  to  the  international  community. 
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  joins  CARICOM  in 
unreservedly condemning the use of chemical weapons, 
which is a gross violation of international law. We call 
on all parties involved in the conflict to bring an end 
to  the  hostilities,  which  have  claimed  the  lives  of  far 
too  many  innocent  civilians,  especially  children.  The 
world  is  watching.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  is 
central to resolving the Syrian conflict. My delegation 
supports the call of the Secretary-General for resolution 
through  dialogue  and  not  through  the  use  of  military 
force  or  any  other  such  action.  Lasting  peace  can  be 
achieved  in  Syria  only  through  a  negotiated  political 
settlement  that  will  facilitate  reconciliation.  What  is 
required is the will of the international community to 
further  that  process.  We  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
United States of America and Russia in attempting to 
eliminate chemical weapons in Syria and move towards 
a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
As we prepare for Samoa 2014, the Commonwealth 
of  Dominica  is  keen  to  make  concrete  progress  for 
SIDS  aimed  at  creating  a  future  of  prosperity  and 
opportunity  for  all  of  our  peoples.  In  that  regard,  my 
Government calls for a renewed political commitment 
by all countries to effectively address the special needs 
and  vulnerabilities  of  SIDS.  We  believe  that  this  will 
require consolidated effort focused on pragmatic actions 
for the further implementation of the Barbados Plan of 
Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  Dominica  laments 
the  fact  that  international  financial  mechanisms  have 
failed to fully recognize and support the vulnerabilities 
of  SIDS,  which  must  be  allowed  access  to  financing 
for development. The United Nations system needs to 
be  strengthened  to  implement  the  Barbados  Plan  and 
Mauritius Strategy.
On 2 April, the Commonwealth of Dominica was 
one  of  an  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States 
that voted in favour of the first international treaty to 
regulate the trade of conventional weapons — the Arms 
Trade Treaty (ATT). Today, we are pleased that the ATT 
is now a reality. That is a significant milestone, as such 
regulations  will  serve  to  curb  the  illicit  international 
sale of conventional weapons to unscrupulous parties. 
Moreover, the Commonwealth of Dominica is satisfied 
that the ATT will close loopholes that allow terrorists 
13-49063
19/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
and  other  criminals  to  arm  themselves  and  endanger 
innocent lives. To that end, my delegation is pleased to 
announce that Dominica has added its name to the list 
of signatories to that Treaty.
Dominica,  the  nature  island  of  the  Caribbean, 
continues  to  navigate  through  waters  made  turbulent 
by a hostile international financial and trading system, 
the continued impact of climate change, the movement 
of small arms and light weapons from North to South, 
and  the  international  trade  in  illegal  drugs  and  the 
violence that they visit upon us. For those reasons, we 
again reiterate the importance of international support 
for  SIDS.  A  post-2015  global  development  agenda 
must continue to build on the gains achieved under the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  must  focus  on  the 
sustainable  use  of  resources  to  reduce  the  impact  of 
climate change, to protect our seas and oceans and to 
promote  the  transition  from  fossil  fuels  to  renewable 
sources  in  the  generation  of  energy  able  to  power 
sustainable industrial development.
The  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States, to be held in Samoa in 2014, presents 
an  ideal  opportunity  for  the  international  community 
to  collectively  chart  a  path  towards  the  sustainable 
development of SIDS and to set the stage for the post-
2015  development  agenda.  The  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica  remains  committed  to  the  progress  made 
thus  far,  and  it  looks  forward  with  eager  anticipation 
to the forging of durable and sustainable partnerships.
The President: I now give the floor to the chair of 
the delegation of Togo.
Mr. Menan (Togo) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
I would like, on behalf of the Head of State, the Head of 
Government and the people of Togo, to congratulate the 
General  Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  its  sixty-eighth 
session. I wish to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your 
elесtiоn  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
and to assure you of Togo’s full willingness to support 
your actions throughout your mandate. I also take this 
opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  continues  to  take  bold  initiatives  to 
enable the Organization to effectively fulfil its mandate 
in promoting peace and sustainable development.
The theme that you have chosen for the sixty-eighth 
session,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda:  setting 
the stage”, is indicative of the particular attention that 
the countries of the South give to development issues. 
At  the  same  time,  it  is  an  invitation  to  the  United 
Nations not only to keep sight of that concern, but also 
to implement a sustainable development programme for 
all  countries.  The  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
55/2) set forth specific Goals that each country should 
attain  by  2015  in  order  to  usher  in  a  world  in  which 
every individual can live in dignity. On the eve of that 
deadline,  it  is  appropriate  to  reflect  on  the  progress 
made  since  the  Millennium  Summit  and  to  discuss 
new  prospects  for  shoring  up  the  progress  that  has 
been  achieved  in  combating  hunger,  malnutrition  and 
disease.
The United Nations has the primary responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
However, those objectives can be sustainably achieved 
only  if  abject  poverty  does  not  become  a  breeding 
ground for all sorts of societal ills. That is why, when 
we  embark  on  a  collective  discussion  of  what  should 
happen post-2015, we must think above all about ways 
to  increase  the  economic  and  social  development  and 
prosperity  of  nations  and  to  prevent  conflicts  before 
they  even  occur.  That  applies  to  all  countries,  but 
particularly to African nations that have been weakened 
by recurrent crises and are now facing various threats.
More  than  a  decade  after  the  launch  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  when 
efforts  have  been  made  to  achieve  the  Goals,  it  is 
clear,  as  the  deadline  of  2015  approaches,  that  many 
challenges 
for  developing 
countries.  For  those  countries  continue  to  experience 
the  impacts  of  the  financial,  energy  and  food  crises 
of previous years, given their economies’ dependence 
on  external  sources  —  crises  that  unfortunately  have 
been exacerbated by climate change. The net result is 
to  reduce  their  chances  of  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals within the set time frame.
in  particular 
remain, 
Moreover, the various initiatives and commitments 
undertaken by the leaders of this world in the context 
of the great international forums are far from achieving 
the desired results. The arrival of official development 
assistance in pledged proportions has been delayed. That 
is the reason why, at the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development, the international community 
was  called  upon  to  uphold  its  commitments,  in 
particular those made in the Millennium Declaration, 
the  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation and the United Nations declarations on 
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development.
At 
time, 
the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government reiterated the need for their States to adjust 
the  same 
20/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
their  policies  in  order  to  further  integrate  economic, 
social and environmental factors at all levels and across 
all  disciplines,  to  ensure  sustainable  development 
across  the  board.  And  indeed,  to  achieve  sustainable 
development,  there  must  be,  at  the  national  and 
international levels, conditions conducive to continuing 
and  strengthening  international  cooperation  in  areas 
such as debt, trade, technology transfer, innovation and 
entrepreneurship and capacity-building .
Achieving  the  MDGs  is  one  of  the  Togolese 
Government’s  priorities.  Enormous  efforts  have  been 
made to significantly reduce poverty in the country. In 
the field of education, the introduction of free primary 
education  since  2008  has  encouraged  an  increase  in 
school enrolment, especially among young girls.
With  regard  to  health  issues,  the  HIV/AIDS 
prevalence  rate  has  been  reduced  by  half.  The  care 
of  infected  people  has  improved  considerably,  and 
more  than  26,000  patients  are  cared  for  by  the  State. 
The  integrated  programme  providing  vaccination,  the 
distribution  of  insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  and 
improved nutrition has yielded promising results in the 
area of   maternal and child health.
In  addition,  significant  progress  has  been  made 
in  other  areas  of  development,  including  agriculture, 
which, thanks to a far-reaching and ambitious national 
agricultural investment programme and food security, 
has  contributed  to  reducing  poverty,  hunger  and  food 
insecurity.
The progress achieved by Togo received recognition 
from  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  (FAO)  in  the  form  of  an  award  made 
by  that  Organization  during  the  thirty-eighth  FAO 
Conference in June in Rome.
On  the  social  front,  for  some  years  now  the 
Government of Togo has been taking proactive measures 
enabling us to tackle in a sustained way the problems of 
joblessness and underemployment among young people 
and their marginalization in decision-making. Among 
them I can point to a national youth council, a national 
volunteer programme, the creation of a support fund for 
youth  economic  initiatives  and  a  support  programme 
for  the  integration  and  development  of  employment 
opportunities.
The  Government  of  Togo,  aware  of  the  great 
challenges of the twenty-first century, is continuing to 
work  with  faith  and  determination  to  gradually  build 
a democratic society capable of guaranteeing to every 
citizen,  without  exception,  the  peace,  harmony,  well-
being, justice and freedom that are prerequisites for our 
society’s full flourishing and that must go hand in hand 
with our economic and social development goals.
For  nearly  a  decade,  the  Government  of  Togo 
has  adopted  a  policy  of  dialogue  and  consensus  in 
managing State affairs. It is in that context that it has 
continued to urge the country’s political class to engage 
in dialogue in order to ensure that election processes are 
definitively free of violence and that the new cycle of 
peaceful political life becomes more solidly entrenched. 
Thus, in addition to the reshuffling that has taken place 
since May 2012, following the recommendations of the 
electoral observation missions, particularly that of the 
European  Union,  new  measures  have  been  adopted. 
They have to do with the reorganization of the national 
independent  electoral  commission,  the  new  electoral 
code  and  laws  on  electoral  districting,  the  financing 
of  political  parties  and  the  status  of  the  opposition. 
Those  measures  enabled  us  to  hold  free,  democratic, 
transparent  and  calm  elections  to  the  legislature  on 
25 July.
the 
This is the moment for me to thank all the partners 
who supported my country throughout the process, as 
well as the various observation missions, which, on the 
completion  of  their  work,  expressed  their  satisfaction 
with  the  good  conduct  of  the  elections.  The  new 
Parliament that emerged from the elections will continue 
with 
institutional  and  constitutional  reforms 
stipulated  in  the  global  political  agreement  signed  in 
Lomé in August 2006 between the Government and the 
political parties, in order to ensure that Togo will finally 
possess  an  institutional  framework  that  strengthens 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  and  consolidates  our 
economic and social gains. Similarly, the Government 
elected in the legislative elections of 25 July has been 
given the primary mandate of stepping up its work in 
priority social areas such as health, education, access 
to  safe  drinking  water  and  sanitation,  and  youth 
employment.
That road map keeps the 2015 deadline in view as 
it  seeks  first  and  foremost  to  continue  Togo’s  efforts 
to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  the 
established  time  frame.  Our  new  frame  of  reference 
for  development  in  the  medium  term,  the  strategy 
for  accelerated  growth  and  job  promotion,  reflects 
that  determination  to  focus  squarely  on  the  MDGs. 
Togo  is  fully  aware  that  effective  achievement  of  the 
13-49063
21/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
MDGs requires resources. That is why we are actively 
committed to promoting good governance.
Under  that  heading  fall  our  strategic  plan  for 
mobilizing  the  Togolese  diaspora,  our  accession  to 
the  Extractive  Industries  Transparency  Initiative, 
the  establishment  of  a  regulatory  authority  for  public 
contracts  in  order  to  improve  the  business  climate, 
the restructuring of public enterprises and the finance 
sector  and  especially  the  establishment  of  a  revenue 
office  responsible  for  the  collection  of  both  customs 
and  tax  receipts.  None  of  this  progress  and  success 
would have been possible for Togo without the support 
of  our  development  partners,  whom  we  would  like  to 
thank once again, and to whom we turn for increased 
support within the framework of the partnerships that 
bind us together.
Togo remains deeply convinced that our efforts to 
meet  the  targets  we  set  ourselves  through  the  MDGs 
cannot succeed in isolation. While every State has its 
own  challenges,  the  international  community  must 
commit to working on them collectively, owing to the 
interdependence that is the hallmark of today’s world. 
In  the  face  of  accelerating  global  change,  worsening 
insecurity  and  the  urgency  of  finding  a  collective 
solution to the challenges our Organization is dealing 
with,  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  Togo  remains 
committed  to  seeking  a  vision  of  a  united,  integrated 
world  where  every  State  must  cooperate  to  promote 
peaceful coexistence and good neighbourliness and to 
combat poverty and underdevelopment in all its forms, 
as  well  as  political,  ideological,  ethnic  and  religious 
intolerance.
Here I would like to touch on the case of Mali, where 
the danger represented by terrorist groups and extremist 
jihadists,  coupled  with  a  serious  humanitarian  crisis, 
prompted  the  United  Nations  to  action  with  a  speedy 
military  intervention  and  peacekeeping  operation.  In 
that regard, the adoption of an integrated United Nations 
strategy  for  the  Sahel,  in  the  months  after  Security 
Council  resolution  2100  (2013)  established  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Mali  (MINUSMA),  has  been  crucial.  The 
holding  of  the  presidential  elections  on  28  July  and 
3  August  was  an  unquestionable  success  not  only  for 
the  Malian  people  and  their  leaders  but  also  for  the 
international community.
Togo  is  pleased  that  regional  and  subregional 
organizations, along with the international community, 
were able to speak with one voice and coordinate their 
actions  in  order  to  achieve  the  results  we  welcome 
today.  From  this  rostrum,  Togo,  which  is  currently 
chairing  the  West  African  Economic  and  Monetary 
Union,  of  which  Mali  is  a  member,  would  like  to 
reiterate  the  community’s  pleasure  at  this  success  of 
the  highly  diverse  Malian  people,  who  demonstrated 
their political maturity and the ability to overcome their 
differences in the national interest.
In  accordance  with  its  ongoing  commitment  to 
peace, security and stability, internationally and in the 
West  African  subregion  in  particular,  Togo  continues 
to work within the entities and institutions of which it 
is  a  member  and,  through  its  MINUSMA  contingent, 
to contribute to helping the Government of Mali. That 
is why my country invites the community of nations to 
continue to support Mali on the road to rebuilding both 
the  infrastructure  that  was  destroyed  in  the  north  of 
the country and its economic development, which was 
severely damaged in the crisis.
There are other situations in Africa that deserve our 
close  attention  by  reason  of  the  degree  to  which  they 
contribute to the continent’s insecurity and undermine 
our efforts to achieve the MDGs. The Central African 
Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Libya and many other countries are currently sources 
of  concern,  since  peace  and  security  are  still  tenuous 
in  those  brotherly  countries.  While  we  commend  the 
bold actions that have already been taken to halt those 
conflicts,  we  would  like  to  urge  the  international 
community  to  continue  to  work  to  that  end  alongside 
the  African  Union,  which  has  made  extraordinary 
efforts to overcome all the obstacles to the continent’s 
economic rebirth.
Among the scourges that have the potential to slow 
African  States’  development  is  that  of  transnational 
organized  crime,  whose  pernicious  impact  on  our 
economies  is  clear.  Where  the  States  of  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea  are  concerned,  piracy  and  armed  robbery 
on  the  high  seas  have  recently  become  a  new  type  of 
scourge  that  is  more  and  more  worrying  and  whose 
seriousness demands general involvement and a strong, 
firm and uncompromising response on the part of the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  as  well  as  the 
countries concerned.
In  that  regard,  my  country,  which  is  currently 
a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  welcomes  the 
commitment  whereby  the  Council  has  included  the 
issue in its agenda, on the initiative of our States. The 
Council’s  position  has  enabled  the  United  Nations 
22/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Office for Central Africa and the United Nations Office 
for West Africa to be a strong presence in the quest for 
solutions to the problem, through the Summit of Heads 
of State and Government of the Economic Community 
of Central African States and the Economic Community 
of West African States on maritime safety and security.
The  summit  that  was  held  in  Yaoundé  on  24  and 
25 June led to the adoption of a code of conduct for the 
prevention and suppression of acts of piracy and armed 
robbery  against  ships  and  illegal  maritime  activities. 
The  fight  against  those  scourges  calls  for  enhanced 
international  cooperation,  in  particular  among  United 
Nations and regional and subregional organizations, in 
line with the Charter of the United Nations. However, 
regional and subregional organizations will not be able 
to effectively tackle those current major challenges if 
they are not granted substantial resources.
The  Syrian  conflict  continues  with  its  atrocities 
and  daily  tragedies,  which  culminated  in  the  use  of 
chemical  weapons  on  21  August.  The  international 
community has long stood by, powerless, as the conflict 
has  taken  its  gruesome  toll.  However,  we  express  the 
hope  that  Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013) 
will  open  up  promising  new  prospects  for  peace  and 
an  inclusive  political  transition  in  Syria.  That  means 
that the international community must do more on the 
humanitarian front by providing aid to Syrians in need, 
both  inside  and  outside  the  country.  In  that  regard, 
we  ardently  hope  that  the  holding  of  the  “Geneva  II” 
conference  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  ending 
the  crisis  through  the  establishment  of  a  transitional 
Government  based  on  consensus  and  an  inclusive 
process.
I  cannot  fail  to  mention  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  by  welcoming 
the  resumption  of  direct 
negotiations  between  the  two  parties,  thanks  to  the 
sustained efforts of President Barack Obama. Togo calls 
on the Israeli and Palestinian authorities to negotiate in 
good  faith  to  reach,  in  the  shortest  possible  time,  an 
agreement  that  finally  allows  for  the  creation  of  two 
States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  and 
within internationally recognized borders.
The  challenges  facing  our  States  are  numerous 
and  vast,  but  we  believe  in  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations to deal with them. It is therefore important that 
we re-establish the United Nations on the basis of the 
values   that led to its creation, which are, essentially, the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
the strengthening of international cooperation.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize,  with 
regard  to  the  MDGs,  the  need  to  stay  the  course, 
regardless  of  the  results  achieved  by  each  individual 
State. Better yet, the international community must be 
more  ambitious  in  the  goals  that  it  will  establish  for 
the post-2015 period, because, given the challenges of 
the contemporary world, it is no longer simply a matter 
of  reducing  the  proportion  of  persons  suffering  from 
hunger,  malnutrition  and  endemic  diseases.  Our  aim 
must be to eradicate them. Only by mobilizing all our 
efforts in the pursuit of those very important goals will 
we increase our chances of actually achieving them.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Xavier Lasso Mendoza, head of the delegation of 
the Republic of Ecuador.
Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
It  is  an  honour,  Mr.  President,  for  me  to  address  the 
General Assembly. Things have changed since I was first 
here, and not only because time has passed and we have 
all become a little older — not that old age is a problem. 
The problem is how we approach it and, indeed, how we 
approach disability. That is why Ecuador believes that, 
in the context of the 2015 and post-2015 development 
agenda,  we  should  include  quantitative  targets  with 
measurable goals for persons with disabilities, together 
with  international  cooperation.  Let  us  never  again 
adopt a development agenda that fails to take account 
of persons with disabilities and their families. We must 
take  specific  measures  to  incorporate  disability  at 
the global, regional and national levels with a view to 
achieving verifiable results.
As I was saying, things have changed since my first 
visit to the General Assembly Hall. Many words have 
reverberated within its walls, and ended up who knows 
where.  Much  has  been  said,  and  perhaps  even  the 
most patient among us is becoming a little exhausted. 
Our  address,  which  may  contain  many  impromptu 
comments, states things as we find them. I see, as others 
perhaps have, that every day it is becoming increasingly 
difficult to reach this colourful, cosmopolitan city. I do 
not think that is what its inhabitants want, for with their 
clamour they seem to be celebrating the diversity of the 
world that is characteristic of New York. It is in fact the 
bureaucrats that put obstacles in our way, drawing lines 
that are frequently difficult to cross.
What shall we do in future years in the face of the 
obstacles  that  sometimes  isolate  the  United  Nations 
Headquarters?  How  can  we,  with  the  agreement  of 
all,  ensure  that  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is 
13-49063
23/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
respected? The host country, which is well aware how 
diverse the Organization is, wants to be the sole arbiter 
of  who  can  come  and  who  cannot,  on  the  basis  of  its 
own likes and dislikes.
That  very  powerful  State  has  also  taken  it  upon 
itself to spy on us, on the pretext of safeguarding its own 
security. It is true that human beings everywhere have 
lived  through  times  of  fear  and  terror.  There  is  good 
reason  to  be  vigilant.  But  the  history  of  humankind, 
and  consequently  of  the  Organization,  is  in  part  the 
recording of an evolution in the rights of every one of 
us. We have been building and reinforcing rights that 
we consider to already have been established, such as 
the  privacy  and  inviolability  of  communications.  It  is 
therefore regrettable that, at a time when technological 
advances  have  enabled  every  man  and  every  woman 
to communicate with every other man and every other 
woman throughout the world, an Administration has set 
up a global surveillance system that knows no borders, 
that does not differentiate between friends and enemies 
and that fails to distinguish between criminals and law-
abiding citizens.
Let us be frank: it is not the existence of a system 
that  intrudes  upon  the  private  life  of  every  person  in 
the  world  that  surprises  us.  We  all  in  fact  suspected 
that  such  a  system  existed.  No,  it  is  its  sheer  scope 
that  confounds  us  —  a  global  espionage  system 
that  knows  no  limits,  without  even  respect  for  the 
bounds  of  common  decency,  and  without  regard  for 
the sovereignty of States and the right to privacy and 
freedom of expression of all citizens.
It cannot be denied that the bonds of trust between 
States and Governments, which underpin negotiations, 
among other things, and effective agreements to combat 
international organized crime, including terrorism, have 
been seriously compromised by the unrestrained actions 
of the United States, which has taken it upon itself to spy 
on our communications. Many of the countries affected 
have  requested,  on  behalf  of  their  Governments  and 
citizens,  that  the  United  States  Government  account 
for its universal espionage programmes, but have not to 
date received a satisfactory response.
On  numerous  occasions,  we  have  heard 
the 
representatives  of 
the  United  States  Government 
express to the United Nations their readiness to discuss 
the  issue.  My  delegation  is  willing  to  initiate  such  a 
discussion forthwith, in a frank, clear and open fashion, 
and  believes  that  there  is  no  better  forum  for  doing 
so  than  the  Assembly  and  its  Committees,  without 
excluding  such  other  entities  as  the  Human  Rights 
Council.
Because we believe that this is the forum in which 
to  defend  the  right  of  all  peoples  to  be  respected, 
beginning with respect for their territorial integrity, we 
are reitereating, for the umpteenth time, that the time 
has  come  for  the  Israeli  settlements  to  cease  and  for 
Palestine  to  be  respected  and  recognized  within  the 
1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Along  the  same  lines,  we  would  like  to  make 
a  democratic  appeal:  188  of  the  Organization’s  193 
Member States have clearly stated that it is time to end 
the unjust embargo that the United States has imposed 
on  Cuba.  Cuba  is  part  of  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for 
the Peoples of Our Americas. Cuba is a member State 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States.  Cuba  is  part  of  the  international  community, 
and  its  people  cannot  continue  to  suffer  the  harmful 
consequences of that embargo.
We  also  would  like  to  reiterate  our  belief  that 
dialogue can resolve the Malvinas Islands conflict. The 
United Kingdom must accede to what has been called 
for at the United Nations so often, that is, to sit at the 
negotiating  table  and  leave  the  history  of  overseas 
territories  to  the  shameful  past.  The  Malvinas  lie 
very close to Argentina, and quite far from the United 
Kingdom.
Allow me briefly to mention that, in my country, 
we  have  recognized  the  rights  of  nature.  We  have  to 
wager on different things. We must rein in the capacity 
to devastate of those who want unlimited growth even 
at  the  cost  of  ecological  balances.  Once  disrupted, 
nature  itself  will  restore  those  balances  and  all  of  us 
will be cast out, with not even a trace remaining of what 
we arrogantly call civilization.
We  have  therefore  decided  to  raise  our  voice 
against  the  high-handedness  of  some  multinational 
firms — and in that regard have had the support of other 
Governments — whose unbridled pursuit of unlimited 
profit subjugates human beings for the sake of capital, 
damages the environment and violates human rights, all 
the while having us believe that it is possible to bring a 
State and its people to its knees.
Ecuador has stood up to the defamatory campaign 
of  one  such  company.  In  2011,  Chevron  was  ordered 
to  pay  $19  billion  in  response  to  the  claim  lodged  by 
30,000 inhabitants of my country who were affected by 
the  devastating  pollution  that  firm  left  behind  in  the 
24/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Amazon. I should make it clear that it was not the State 
of Ecuador that sued the corporation, it was our people.
We must also denounce the overwhelming statistics 
showing  how  arbitration  tribunals  fail  countries  such 
as  mine,  which,  paradoxically,  can  serve  to  shed 
light  on  the  web  of  intersecting  interests  among 
businesses,  arbitrators  and  lawyers  associated  with 
such tribunals. We in South America have undertaken 
various  initiatives,  such  as  the  establishment  of  a 
dispute-settlement  centre  within  the  Union  of  South 
American  Nations.  The  centre  will  play  a  key  role  in 
reconfiguring  the  balance  between  national  public 
interests and multinational private profits.
My  country  condemns 
the  violence  being 
experienced  in  Syria,  as  well  as  serious  violations  of 
international law and human rights, regardless of their 
source.  From  the  outset,  Ecuador  has  argued  that  a 
military solution is not a way out of the crisis in Syria. 
We  must  always  address  armed  conflicts  head-on, 
setting aside any manipulation in sole pursuit of outside 
interests.  We  should  allow  comprehensive  solutions 
based on international law to bear fruit and flourish.
In that context, the situation in Syria, a millennial 
nation  facing  a  terrible  period,  deserves  our  sincere 
and  sustained  attention,  for  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
human  lives  have  been  lost  and  thousands  of  others 
constantly confront danger.
Ecuador welcomes as a positive step Syria’s recent 
accession  to  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the 
Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use  of 
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. We look 
forward to the final results of the investigations by the 
United  Nations  on  all  claims  of  chemical  weapons  in 
Syria,  because  only  on  the  basis  of  those  results  can 
the international community be confident of having a 
sufficiently broad and much more credible overview.
As an executive member of the Organization for the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Ecuador joined the 
consensus on the adoption of the decision on chemical 
weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic. We did so because 
we  believed  that  decision  reflected  the  endeavours  of 
the international community to preserve peace, defend 
the lives of Syrian citizens and move towards a political 
solution to the crisis.
We  also  note,  and  we  consider  it  very  important, 
that  the  Security  Council’s  decision  should  not  be 
interpreted by any State as a justification for unilateral 
action  that  violates  international  law,  which  prohibits 
the  use  or  the  threat  of  the  use  of  force  and  calls  for 
respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial 
integrity  of  States.  As  a  State  party  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention, we condemn the use of chemical 
weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic by any party. We 
also  reiterate  the  obligation  of  States  to  refrain  from 
providing  any  type  of  military  support  to  non-State 
actors.
Those  are  some  of  the  topics  that  cause  us  major 
concern.  There  will  be  more,  voiced  by  others,  so 
that  we  can  ultimately  approach  the  world  with  hope 
and restore our human capacity to be able to continue 
believing  in  what  inspired  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations: dialogue for the sake of peace, as well 
as democracy, justice, inclusion and equality and as an 
antidote to war.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Carlos Filomeno Agostinho das Neves, 
head of the delegation of Democratic Republic of Sao 
Tome and Principe.
Mr. Das Neves (Sao Tome and Principe) (spoke in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
On  behalf  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  the  country  that  I  have  the  honour  of 
representing  in  the  highest  forum  of  international 
diplomacy,  where  all  States  have  an  equal  voice 
regardless of size or geographic location and which was 
created as a result of a pressing need for communication 
and dialogue among the peoples of the world, I would 
first  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth session. Your experience as a diplomat gives us 
confidence that you will masterfully conduct the work 
of the General Assembly. In the Assembly we anticipate 
pertinent  debates  concerning  issues  of  the  greatest 
concern  to  the  international  community  on  which  we 
hope to achieve consensus and identify the best paths 
to lasting solutions.
We  also  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  and 
esteem  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
dedication and his efforts in conducting the work of the 
Organization,  and  we  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić for his positive contribution as President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session.
Today,  unfortunately,  we  are  forced  to  begin  our 
statement by expressing the strongest condemnation of 
the  bloody  terrorist  attack  in  Kenya.  The  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  offers  its  most 
13-49063
25/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
profound  sentiments  of  sorrow  and  our  solidarity 
with  the  people  of  Kenya,  their  Government  and  the 
bereaved families.
The  current  international  environment  does  not 
seem to have changed significantly since the previous 
session.  Indeed,  new  bloody  conflicts  and  violence 
seem to break out almost on a daily basis everywhere, 
revealing  the  deep  disagreements  and  antagonisms 
that  exist  both  within  each  State  and  among  various 
States  in  the  community  of  nations.  The  profound 
imbalance in international relations, the injustice of the 
trading system, the enormous divide in access to goods 
and  in  cultural  values  and  the  glaring  disparities  in 
information access and knowledge among the peoples 
of  our  planet  do  not  contribute  to  improved  living 
conditions for millions of human beings. Rather, they 
lead  to  increased  conflict  and  threats  to  international 
peace and security.
As it has done each year, the Democratic Republic 
of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  reaffirms,  in  accordance 
with its principles, its desire to see the United Nations 
assume  a  more  active  role  in  righting  the  imbalances 
and  in  efforts  to  mediate  and  resolve  international 
conflicts.
The  fight  against  poverty,  the  struggle  against 
injustice  and  promoting  greater  dissemination  of 
knowledge must, in our view, remain ongoing concerns 
of  the  Organization,  so  as  to  ensure  that  all  peoples 
achieve  satisfactory  development  and  dignity, 
in 
accordance  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
thereby reducing the level of conflict and hostility that 
is prevalent in the world today.
Along  those  lines,  my  country  has  implemented 
extensive political and institutional reforms in various 
areas, in order to engage all of its citizens in building 
a more democratic and transparent Government and a 
more  participatory  society  in  the  pursuit  of  solutions 
to  help  fight  poverty.  We  have  not  forgotten  the  need 
to  provide  the  entire  population  with  easier  access  to 
education,  basic  health  care  and  safe  drinking  water, 
as  well  as  modern  communications,  as  a  means  to 
increase  knowledge  and  improve  living  conditions. 
That requires an enormous effort from a country with 
scant  economic  and  financial  resources;  it  therefore 
requires international aid to achieve sustainability and 
the established development goals.
My  country  congratulates  and  commends  you, 
Sir,  for  the  relevance  and  timeliness  of  the  theme 
proposed  for  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  —  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting  the  stage”  —  which  remains  relevant  despite 
the  ongoing  financial  and  economic  crisis  the  world 
is  facing.  My  country  remains  firmly  convinced 
that  addressing  that  important  theme  in  its  various 
dimensions  during  the  current  session  and  through 
2015 will encourage each and every State Member of 
the United Nations to contribute more effectively and 
dynamically towards the future we want.
In  addition  to  identifying  the  progress  made  in 
the  eight  Millennium  Development 
implementing 
Goals,  the  debate  and  reflection  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  allows  us  to  explore  ways  and 
means  of  building  a  more  promising  future  for  our 
nations and our peoples.
The sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly 
is taking place at a time when the Democratic Republic 
of Sao Tome and Principe has completed two important 
phases  of  public  consultation  aimed  at  guiding  the 
country  in  re-charting  its  course  to  achieveing  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  enabling  our 
positive contribution to the new post-2015 development 
agenda.
Good 
economic 
governance, 
development, 
developing human capital, food and nutritional security, 
as well as peace, tranquillity and security, are among the 
areas in which Sao Tome and Principe must improve its 
performance in the near future and represent the basic 
requirements to drive the country’s development.
The citizens of Sao Tome and Principe are of the 
view  that  a  new  development  agenda  must  offer  a 
framework to consolidate the significant progress made 
in  implementing  the  eight  Millennium  Development 
Goals  —  especially  in  the  areas  of  education  and 
health  —  as  well  as  an  opportunity  to  advance 
international  political  participation  and  exchange 
aimed at development in the context of a continuously 
evolving  political  and  economic  environment  and 
increasing  global  challenges.  We  therefore  thank 
the  various  development  partners  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe for their valuable 
contributions towards the achievement of our goals.
Since  its  establishment,  in  1945,  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  and  objectives  enshrined  in  its 
Charter, the United Nations has been called on to play 
an  important  role  in  building  and  maintaining  peace 
and security in the world as an essential condition for 
26/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
promoting  development  on  a  global  scale.  However, 
all agree that the Organization must adapt to the new 
challenges of the times. Its operational and functional 
structures  must  become  more  dynamic,  with  greater 
flexibility, so as to meet the increasing demands of the 
new era.
The  ongoing  reform  of  the  entire  United  Nations 
system must be completed, and the Democratic Republic 
of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  urges  acceleration  of  that 
process. We believe that a broad and consensual reform 
of the United Nations will provide the Organization with 
the  greater  flexibility,  representation,  effectiveness, 
capacity  and  legitimacy  that  it  requires  to  continue 
to  ensure  peace,  security  and  development  for  its 
Members.
Unfortunately,  the  bloody  conflicts  that  appear 
to  proliferate  almost  everywhere  and  emerge  where 
they are least expected are not decreasing in number. 
Whether caused by social antagonisms resulting from 
the  poor  distribution  of  wealth  or  from  ethnic  or 
religious intolerance, the fact is that they persist.
There has been no significant progress in resolving 
the  continuing  conflict  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  despite  the  laudable  efforts  of  the 
international community — namely, the United Nations 
and the African Union — towards finding a solution that 
leads to peace and stability in the region. Therefore, we 
cannot fail to appeal to the neighbouring countries of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo for constructive 
forms of cooperation and trust in their relationships.
We  welcome 
the  progress  made 
in  Guinea-
Bissau  following  the  many  initiatives  undertaken 
by  the  international  community,  namely,  the  United 
Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community 
of  West  African  States  and 
the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking 
(CPLP).  We 
congratulate  the  United  Nations  and  African  Union 
representatives  to  Guinea-Bissau  for  their  efforts 
as  mediators  in  the  country,  in  cooperation  with 
other  stakeholders.  Those  efforts  created  conditions 
conducive to promoting further progress in stabilizing 
and  preparing  the  country  for  the  general  elections 
and  in  restoring  it  to  constitutional  and  democratic 
normality — the profound aspiration of its people.
Countries 
My country is counting seriously on the stabilization 
process and encourages all parties involved to do their 
best  to  achieve  the  established  goals.  In  coordination 
with  the  other  States  members  of  the  CPLP,  we  will 
continue  to  exert  every  effort  to  contribute  to  the 
success  of  that  process,  so  that  peace  and  happiness 
may return to the people of our sister nation.
Mali,  another  country  tormented  by  a  fratricidal 
war,  seems  to  have  finally  reached  an  encouraging 
point,  as  it  recently  held  presidential  elections  with 
results  that  have  been  peacefully  and  universally 
accepted. We congratulate the new President and hope 
that  he  may  find  the  best  path  towards  maintaining 
peace and inclusive dialogue among all Malians.
The Central African Republic is today experiencing 
one  of  the  worst  moments  in  its  history.  Indeed,  we 
have  observed  barbaric  acts  there,  such  as  summary 
executions  and  widespread  pillage.  Public  services 
are crumbling. The humanitarian situation has already 
been determined to be catastrophic by United Nations 
specialized  agencies,  thus  requiring  vigorous  and 
urgent  action.  Therefore,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Sao Tome and Principe, out of concern for the suffering 
of the tormented people of our sister nation, appeals to 
the entire international community for a more vigorous 
intervention 
their  suffering,  preserve 
national sovereignty and help national political actors 
to promote national unity and political stability.
to  mitigate 
The longstanding issue of the Western Sahara calls 
for our attention and requires greater involvement from 
all in the search for a definitive solution to the protracted 
negotiation  process.  We 
therefore  welcome  with 
satisfaction the willingness expressed by the Moroccan 
Government to support the efforts of the international 
community  to  achieve  a  negotiated  political  and 
mutually  acceptable  solution,  and  encourage  both 
parties to return to the negotiation process.
Currently,  our  attention  is  focused  on  the  issue 
of piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, which greatly affects 
the safety of navigation and may destabilize countries 
in  the  region.  That  would  prevent  them  from  taking 
advantage  of  their  natural  resources,  causing  great 
harm to their population. The territorial waters of Sao 
Tome and Principe are 150 times the size of our land 
mass.  Therefore,  we  are  extremely  concerned  about 
the  risks  of  acts  of  piracy  spreading  in  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea. Recently, the Heads of State and Government 
of  countries  that  form  the  Commission  of  the  Gulf 
of  Guinea,  which  we  seek  to  expand,  held  a  summit 
to  adopt  measures  aimed  at  combating  that  scourge. 
But  our  firm  action  in  that  regard  will  be  successful 
only  if  we  can  also  count  on  the  efforts  of  the  entire 
international community.
13-49063
27/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
that  connect 
The  Gulf  of  Guinea  is  a  point  of  reference  in 
navigation  routes 
the  northern  and 
southern  hemispheres,  as  well  as  other  important 
economic regions of the world. Its protection deserves 
everyone’s  attention.  Combating  piracy  requires  the 
establishment  of  an  environment  that  is  conducive  to 
global  security.  Since  piracy  is  normally  associated 
with  transnational  crimes  such  as  the  trafficking  of 
arms, drugs and persons, which Sao Tome and Principe 
condemns  emphatically,  my  country  has  joined  other 
States in the region to combat such activities and has 
taken  steps  at  the  national  level  that  make  it  more 
difficult for our territory to be used for the purpose of 
money  laundering  or  the  financing  of  other  illicit  or 
criminal acts.
With  regard 
to 
that 
the  bloody  conflict 
is 
ravaging  Syria  and  causing  a  humanitarian  tragedy 
of  great  proportions,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe  vehemently  condemns  the  use  of 
chemical  weapons  in  violation  of  all  international 
agreements. We also take this opportunity to welcome 
recent  developments  towards  dismantling  the  Syrian 
arsenal  of  chemical  weapons  and  urge  both  parties 
to  the  conflict  and  the  international  community  to 
pursue a compromise that will lead to the cessation of 
hostilities,  thereby  paving  the  way  for  open  dialogue 
and negotiations within a multilateral framework aimed 
at a political solution to establish lasting peace.
As  for  the  Israeli-Palestinian  issue,  we  urgently 
appeal  to  both  Israel  and  Palestine  to  move  towards 
resolving their differences through dialogue, based on 
respect  for  the  integrity  of  the  State  of  Israel  and  the 
right of a Palestinian State to exist.
The Republic of Cuba, whose internal reforms we 
welcome, has the right to choose its path freely, without 
any restrictions imposed by an embargo that penalizes 
its  economic  and  social  development,  with  grave 
consequences for the country’s population.
We  also  acknowledge  the  climate  of  constructive 
dialogue  between  Taiwan  and  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China,  which  serves  to  send  a  positive  signal  that 
tensions are decreasing in the region, which we welcome 
and  encourage.  Both  parties  along  the  Formosa  Strait 
must  work  peacefully  towards  reaching  an  agreement 
on the normalization of their relations. For our part, we 
continue  to  support  the  integration  of  Taiwan  within 
international organizations.
to  contributing,  with 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  my  country’s 
commitment 
the  United 
Nations,  towards  a  peaceful  and  negotiated  solution 
to international conflicts, and hope that the post-2015 
development  agenda  will  translate  into  programmes 
that can help improve the living conditions of all people 
on our planet.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ib  Petersen,  head  of  the  delegation  of 
Denmark.
Mr.  Petersen  (Denmark):  In  the  twenty-first 
century, old distinctions between North and South, and 
developed  and  developing  countries  are  beginning  to 
lose their meaning. We are witnessing significant shifts 
in  the  geopolitical  balance,  in  population  dynamics 
and  in  economic  power  between  Member  States.  As 
documented  in  this  year’s  United  Nations  Human 
Development  Report,  many  developing  countries 
are  experiencing  faster  economic  growth.  Emerging 
economies  now  produce  the  majority  of  the  world’s 
goods  and  services,  and  three  quarters  of  the  world’s 
economic growth is said to depend on their dynamism.
Today,  emerging  economies  and  middle-income 
countries are an important part of reshaping the global 
economy. In a globalized world, with dramatic shifts of 
power and influence, a strong United Nations is more 
relevant than ever before. We need the United Nations, 
with its unique legitimacy and its universal membership. 
We need a United Nations that can contribute to global 
challenges with common solutions. We need a United 
Nations that reflects the changing political landscape, 
including through a reformed Security Council. Above 
all, we need a United Nations that can help to mediate, 
prevent  and  resolve  armed  conflicts.  For  the  United 
Nations to be able to contribute effectively to resolving 
armed conflicts, it is crucial that the Security Council 
show leadership and prove that it can fulfil its primary 
purpose  and  responsibility  of  cooperating  to  resolve 
international  crises  and  to  promote  universal  respect 
for human rights.
Today,  the  total  number  of  people  uprooted  by 
conflict  or  persecution  is  close  to  45  million,  the 
highest  level  in  18  years.  That  illustrates  the  human 
suffering and costs of conflict, which we must do our 
utmost to prevent and resolve. An integrated approach 
to preventive diplomacy, peacebuilding, peacekeeping 
and the prevention of atrocities is crucial. The cure for 
armed conflict and instability is to invest in democratic 
28/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
structures that protect civilians and their human rights 
and  contribute  to  socioeconomic  progress.  In  recent 
years, the Security Council has increasingly integrated 
the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  the  protection 
of  civilians  into  its  mandates  for  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  missions.  That  is  an 
encouraging development that Denmark supports fully.
Denmark  agrees  with  the  Secretary-General  that 
building societies that are resilient to crimes of atrocity 
increases the prospects of long-term peace and stability. 
The unacceptable human suffering in Syria is a tragic 
reminder of the consequences when no early action to 
prevent  crimes  of  atrocity  is  undertaken.  Advancing 
the  primary  responsibility  of  States  to  protect  their 
populations should be a concern for all Governments. 
The responsibility to protect is consistent with existing 
obligations  and 
law, 
humanitarian  law  and  refugee  law,  which  are  binding 
on all States. Denmark calls on Member States to join 
the  global  network  of  responsibility-to-protect  focal 
points,  which  works  to  integrate  the  prevention  of 
atrocities in national policies, and to engage with other 
Member  States  and  regional  organizations  in  order 
to  build  capacity  and  cooperation  before  crises  and 
conflicts break out.
international  human 
rights 
At  the  same  time,  we  must  ensure  accountability 
for human rights violations and for crimes of atrocity 
in  the  past.  The  perpetrators  of  those  crimes  must  be 
brought  to  justice.  While  the  Security  Council  last 
Friday took an important step to address the crisis in 
Syria, Denmark reiterates its call on the Council to refer 
the case of Syria to the International Criminal Court.
Sexual  violence  in  conflict  is  one  of  the  most 
persistent injustices in the world today, and often one 
of the most neglected. We must combat sexual violence 
as a method of warfare. Likewise, we must promote the 
participation of women in peacebuilding and in social 
and  economic  recovery.  Denmark  strongly  believes 
that no durable peace can be attained without the full 
and equal participation of women in peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding processes.
Building sustainable peace and long-term stability 
remains  one  of  the  most  difficult  challenges  for  the 
international  community  and  the  United  Nations. 
But  the  investment  is  well  worth  it.  We  must  support 
country-led  and  country-owned  transition  strategies 
in  building  paths  towards  resilient  societies.  Conflict 
and violence have devastating effects on development. 
The  complex  situation  in  fragile  States  represents 
perhaps the greatest challenge to combating poverty, as 
low-income  fragile  States  are  those  most  off-track  in 
terms of reaching the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). It is therefore essential that the central roles 
of  State-building  and  peacebuilding  be  duly  reflected 
in the post-2015 framework.
The  New  Deal  for  Engagement  in  Fragile  States, 
led  by  the  g7+  countries,  provides  peacebuilding 
and  State-building  goals  that  call  for  a  global  effort 
to  strengthen  people’s  security,  to  reduce  violence, 
to  increase  people’s  access  to  justice,  to  generate 
employment and to improve livelihoods. We urge that 
the experiences and lessons learned from the New Deal 
become a source of inspiration for discussions on the 
post-2015 development framework.
The  process  of  establishing 
the  post-2015 
development agenda should result in a single universal 
framework with one set of goals that can unite the world 
in a strong effort to eradicate extreme poverty, promote 
sustainable  development  and  ensure  all  people  the 
right to a better life. Denmark welcomes the outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Realization  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  Internationally  Agreed 
Development  Goals  for  Persons  with  Disabilities 
(resolution 68/3), adopted last week, which provides a 
first important step towards that vision.
At  the  same  time,  unfinished  business  from  the 
MDGs  must  figure  prominently  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  The  focus  should  be  on  ending 
extreme  poverty  in  one  generation  while  promoting 
sustainable  development  in  all  its  dimensions.  The 
empowerment of women and girls and access to basic 
services, such as health and education, must not drop 
off  the  agenda.  On  the  contrary,  we  must  commit  to 
doing more to close those gaps.
Denmark is committed to shouldering its share of 
collective  responsibility.  In  2012,  Denmark  provided 
0.83  per  cent  of  its  gross  national  income  as  official 
development  assistance,  and  it  has  been  fulfilling  the 
international target of 0.7 per cent since 1978. Also, we 
are strengthening our efforts to work in partnership with 
private business and other non-State actors to increase 
investments  in  developing  countries,  especially  in 
Africa.
As also highlighted by the Secretary-General and 
the  High-level  Panel  on  the  Post-2015  Development 
Agenda  in  their  reports,  a  new,  coherent  post-2015 
13-49063
29/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
framework  must  be  firmly  anchored  in  human  rights 
as  universal  values  and  enablers  for  sustainable 
development. Such a framework must build on the core 
principles that underpin the international human rights 
framework,  namely,  participation,  accountability, 
transparency  and  non-discrimination.  It  must  address 
the human rights of all groups in our societies and pay 
special attention to the rights of indigenous peoples.
We are losing ground when it comes to inequality 
within countries where we see a widening gap between 
rich  and  poor  people.  The  1.2  billion  poorest  people 
account for only 1 per cent of world consumption, while 
the  billion  richest  consume  72  per  cent.  Inequalities 
and  their  underlying  causes  must  be  addressed  in  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  in  order  to  effectively 
eradicate  extreme  poverty,  underpin  socioeconomic 
progress and prevent instability.
Gender-based discrimination, including the denial 
of  the  rights  of  women  and  girls,  remains  the  single 
most widespread driver of inequalities in today’s world. 
For  Denmark,  it  is  critical  that  gender  equality  and 
sexual and reproductive health and rights be reflected 
in the post-2015 agenda. That was also underscored by 
the High-level Panel report.
Macroeconomic  policy  is  essential  in  addressing 
inequalities.  Equitable  socioeconomic  progress  and 
a  fair  distribution  of  resources  are  important  for 
developed and developing countries alike.
Scientific  evidence,  as  just  presented  by  the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, makes it 
clear that climate change has become a threat multiplier. 
More  frequent  natural  disasters  impact  on  the  most 
vulnerable  people  and  add  another  layer  to  fragility, 
inequality and instability. Unsustainable production and 
consumption  increase  the  stress  on  natural  resources 
and ecosystems. The level of carbon dioxide emissions 
today  is  46  per  cent  higher  than  the  1990  level.  The 
United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  must  promote 
innovative  technologies  and  new  solutions  to  water, 
food and energy scarcity, deforestation and high carbon 
emissions. Jointly, we must push the transformation to 
a green economy.
Green  growth  is  necessary  if  we  are  to  deal 
effectively with increased demands for resources over 
the next 15 to 20 years as the global population grows. 
Green growth is about opportunities for all, not about 
obstacles for some. The access to and management of 
energy and water resources are two important elements. 
Governments  cannot  do  it  alone.  We  need  active 
involvement  and  a  close  partnership  with  the  private 
sector, including businesses and private foundations, as 
well as with civil society and public institutions.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s invitation to 
a summit in September 2014 that will serve to maintain 
the momentum of the climate negotiations. It is crucial 
to  set  an  ambitious  international  agenda  for  tackling 
the consequences of climate change. Denmark’s long-
term  energy  policy  goal  is  clear:  our  entire  energy 
supply  should  be  covered  by  renewable  energy  by 
2050. Denmark stands ready to support a global agenda 
towards  limiting  global  warming  to  2°  Celsius.  Our 
contribution  to  the  Secretary-General’s  Sustainable 
Energy for All initiative is part of that support, including 
the  establishment  of  an  energy  efficiency  hub  in  the 
new United Nations City in Copenhagen. Denmark will 
also work for an ambitious and operational outcome of 
the the third International Conference on Small Island 
Developing States, to take place in September 2014.
At  the  country  level,  Denmark  supports  a  United 
Nations  that  can  inspire  change  and  deliver  concrete 
results  that  will  benefit  populations,  strengthen  their 
confidence in political processes and pave the way for 
long-term stability and development.
We  condemn  the  indiscriminate  violence  that 
we  witness  in  Syria.  Not  only  does  it  harm  civilians 
in  the  most  tragic  way,  it  also  undermines  regional 
stability as a whole. With the conflict in Syria, we are 
confronted with a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented 
proportions. Last month the world witnessed a further 
escalation of the conflict with the horrendous chemical 
attack in Ghouta. Denmark strongly condemns all use of 
chemical weapons, and we are convinced that a strong 
international reaction is required. It is crucial that those 
responsible for that grave violation of international law 
be  brought  to  justice  and  that  future  use  of  chemical 
weapons be effectively prevented.
From  the  very  outset  of  the  tragedy  in  Syria, 
Denmark  has  emphasized  the  need  for  a  political 
solution to end the human suffering. We welcome the 
adoption  by  the  Security  Council  of  resolution  2118 
(2013), on the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. 
Denmark  continues  to  strongly  support  the  efforts 
towards the “Geneva II” conference.
In Egypt, an already fragile situation has worsened 
significantly  over  the  past  months,  during  which 
tragic  events  have  led  to  a  heavy  loss  of  civilian 
30/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
lives.  Democracy  and  dialogue  must  return.  Progress 
in  Egypt  can  come  about  only  through  a  peaceful, 
inclusive  process.  Many  challenges  still  lie  ahead 
with regard to the implementation of the road map for 
a return to democratic and civilian rule in Egypt. We 
urge  the  Egyptian  authorities  to  accept  the  support 
of  the  international  community  for  that  process.  The 
United Nations can play an important role in supporting 
respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
Progress in the Middle East peace process remains 
critical  for  improving  regional  stability.  Denmark 
welcomes the United States initiative aimed at resumed 
direct  negotiations.  All  parties  must  now  truly  seize 
the opportunity for peace and work constructively for a 
sustainable two-State solution.
In  Afghanistan,  we  welcome  the  process  towards 
full national ownership, which is crucial for the long-
term  future  of  the  country.  Afghan  authorities  are 
taking  over  still-greater  responsibility  for  security 
and  institutions.  There  is,  however,  a  clear  need  for 
a  continued,  strong  political  commitment  from  the 
international  community  in  order  for  Afghanistan 
to  succeed  in  that  goal.  The  Afghan  Government 
and  its  international  partners  must  live  up  to  the 
July  2012  Tokyo  declaration  on  partnership  for  self-
reliance in Afghanistan. Denmark will remain a strong 
partner  to  Afghanistan  on  its  way  to  democracy  and 
improved  livelihoods.  The  United  Nations  assistance 
to  Afghanistan  in  managing  the  transition  process, 
including  the  upcoming  electoral  processes,  will  be 
essential now and in the years to come.
Peace and security in the Sahel region have lately 
been challenged by violent extremism, the presence of 
armed groups, the expansion of transborder organized 
crime and increasing environmental and climate-change 
pressures,  which 
jeopardize  development  gains. 
Denmark  supports  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations integrated strategy for the Sahel. Throughout 
the  Sahel,  the  influence  of  civil  society  on  national 
and  international  decision-making  warrants  attention 
in  order  to  deepen  and  consolidate  the  ongoing 
stabilization and peace efforts.
Together  with  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union and African and international partners, Denmark 
is committed to supporting the efforts in Mali and the 
Sahel  to  facilitate  reconciliation  through  inclusive 
dialogue  and  the  active  engagement  of  civil  society. 
We also support the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali  as  a  strong 
United Nations peacekeeping Mission.
Somalia’s  New  Deal  Compact  will  be  crucial  for 
reconciliation  and  peacebuilding  and  will  set  the 
priorities for the next three years. It is important that 
peace and development be dealt with in an integrated 
way, and that there be mutual commitment to develop 
and follow up on the Compact for Somalia. We welcome 
the  explicit  use  in  the  Compact  of  the  peacebuilding 
and State-building goals from the New Deal Compact, 
and the strong ownership by Somalia to implement the 
principles of the New Deal.
The  unregulated  and  irresponsible  international 
trade in arms has had devastating effects. Earlier this 
year, the General Assembly made history by adopting 
the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  Denmark  supports  the  swift 
entry  into  force  and  effective  implementation  of  the 
Treaty.  Denmark  is  committed  to  assisting  States,  on 
their request, to meet their obligations under the Treaty.
We once again call upon Iran and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea to comply with international 
law and the relevant Security Council resolutions. We 
welcome all efforts to resolve the issue of Iran’s nuclear 
programme.
The  United  Nations  is  more  relevant  than  ever  at 
a time when strong multilateral cooperation is needed 
to cope with global challenges that transcend national 
borders.  No  country  can  confront  those  challenges 
on its own. Seen from the perspective of Denmark as 
a  small  State,  the  United  Nations  could  and  should 
inspire change and help States take action when moving 
forward towards 2015 and beyond.
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora of 
the State of Israel
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora 
of the State of Israel.
Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Minister of Public Affairs 
and the Diaspora of the State of Israel, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime 
13-49063
31/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister of 
Public Affairs and the Diaspora of the State of Israel, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Of course he did — just as 30 years ago Iran’s security 
chiefs  knew  about  the  bombings  in  Beirut  that  killed 
241 American marines and 58 French paratroopers.
Mr. Netanyahu (Israel): I feel deeply honoured and 
privileged to stand here before the General Assembly 
today  representing  the  citizens  of  the  State  of  Israel. 
We  are  an  ancient  people.  We  date  back  nearly  4,000 
years to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. We have journeyed 
through  time.  We  have  overcome  the  greatest  of 
adversities. And we re-established our sovereign State 
in our ancestral homeland, the land of Israel. The Jewish 
people’s odyssey through time has taught us two things: 
never give up hope and always remain vigilant. Hope 
charts the future, vigilance protects it.
Today  our  hope  for  the  future  is  challenged  by  a 
nuclear-armed  Iran  that  seeks  our  destruction.  But  I 
want members to know that that was not always the case. 
Some  2,500  years  ago,  the  great  Persian  King  Cyrus 
ended  the  Babylonian  exile  of  the  Jewish  people.  He 
issued a famous edict in which he proclaimed the right 
of the Jews to return to the land of Israel and rebuild the 
Jewish Temple in Jerusalem. That is a Persian decree, 
and thus began a historic friendship between the Jews 
and the Persians that lasted until modern times.
But,  in  1979,  a  radical  regime  in  Tehran  tried  to 
stamp  out  that  friendship.  As  it  was  busy  crushing 
the  Iranian  people’s  hopes  for  democracy,  it  also  led 
wild  chants  of  “Death  to  the  Jews!”  Since  that  time, 
presidents of Iran have come and gone. Some presidents 
were  considered  moderates,  others  hard-liners.  But 
they have all served that same unforgiving creed, that 
same unforgiving regime — that creed that is espoused 
and  enforced  by  the  real  power  in  Iran,  the  dictator 
known in Iran as the Supreme Leader, first Ayatollah 
Khomeini and now Ayatollah Khamenei.
President  Rouhani,  like  the  presidents  who  came 
before  him,  is  a  loyal  servant  of  the  regime.  He  was 
one of only six candidates the regime permitted to run 
for office. Nearly 700 other candidates were rejected. 
What  made  him  acceptable?  Rouhani  headed  Iran’s 
Supreme National Security Council from 1989 through 
2003.  During  that  time,  Iran’s  henchmen  gunned 
down  opposition  leaders  in  a  Berlin  restaurant.  They 
murdered  85  people  at  the  Jewish  community  centre 
in Buenos Aires. They killed 19 American soldiers by 
blowing up the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia. Are we 
to  believe  that  Rouhani,  the  national  security  adviser 
of Iran at the time, knew nothing about those attacks? 
Rouhani  was  also  Iran’s  chief  nuclear  negotiator 
between 2003 and 2005. He masterminded the strategy 
that  enabled  Iran  to  advance  its  nuclear-weapons 
programme  behind  a  smokescreen  of  diplomatic 
engagement  and  very  soothing  rhetoric.  I  know  that 
Rouhani does not sound like Ahmadinejad. But when it 
comes to Iran’s nuclear-weapons programme, the only 
difference  between  them  is  this:  Ahmadinejad  was  a 
wolf  in  wolf’s  clothing,  Rouhani  is  a  wolf  in  sheep’s 
clothing — a wolf who thinks he can pull the wool over 
the eyes of the international community.
Like  everyone  else,  I  wish  we  could  believe 
Rouhani’s words, but we must focus on Iran’s actions. 
And  it  is  the  brazen  contrast  —  that  extraordinary 
contradiction  between  Rouhani’s  words  and  Iran’s 
actions — that is so startling. Rouhani stood at this very 
rostrum last week and praised Iranian democracy (see 
A/68/PV.6). Iranian democracy, he said. But the regime 
that  he  represents  executes  political  dissidents  by  the 
hundreds  and  jails  them  by  the  thousands.  Rouhani 
spoke of “the human tragedy in Syria”. Yet Iran directly 
participates in Al-Assad’s murder and massacre of tens 
of thousands of innocent men, women and children in 
Syria, and that regime is propping up a Syrian regime 
that just used chemical weapons against its own people. 
Rouhani condemned the “violent scourge” of terrorism. 
Yet  in  the  past  three  years  alone  Iran  has  ordered, 
planned  or  perpetrated  terrorist  attacks  in  25  cities 
on  five  continents.  Rouhani  denounced  “attempts  to 
change the regional balance through proxies”. Yet Iran 
is actively destabilizing Lebanon, Yemen, Bahrain and 
many other Middle Eastern countries. Rouhani promises 
“constructive  engagement  with  other  countries”.  Yet 
two years ago, Iranian agents tried to assassinate Saudi 
Arabia’s  Ambassador  in  Washington,  D.C.  Just  three 
weeks ago, an Iranian agent was arrested while trying 
to  collect  information  for  possible  attacks  against  the 
American  Embassy  in  Tel  Aviv.  Some  constructive 
engagement!
I  wish  I  could  be  moved  by  Rouhani’s  invitation 
to  join  his  “WAVE”  —  a  world  against  violence  and 
extremism. Yet the only waves Iran has generated in the 
past 30 years are waves of violence and terrorism that 
it has unleashed on the region and across the world. I 
wish I could believe Rouhani, but I do not because facts 
are  stubborn  things.  The  facts  are  that  Iran’s  savage 
32/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
record  flatly  contradicts  Rouhani’s  soothing  rhetoric. 
Last  Friday,  Rouhani  assured  us  that  in  pursuit  of  its 
nuclear programme, Iran had “never chosen deceit and 
secrecy.” Never chosen deceit and secrecy?
In  2002,  Iran  was  caught  red-handed  secretly 
building an underground centrifuge facility at Natanz. 
In  2009,  Iran  was  again  caught  red-handed  secretly 
building  a  huge  underground  nuclear  facility  for 
uranium enrichment in a mountain near Qom. Rouhani 
tells us not to worry. He assures us that all that is not 
intended  for  nuclear  weapons.  Does  any  here  believe 
that? If so, here are a few questions to ask.
Why  would  a  country  that  claims  to  only  want 
peaceful  nuclear  energy  build  hidden  underground 
enrichment facilities? Why would a country with vast 
natural  energy  reserves  invest  billions  in  developing 
nuclear energy? Why would a country intent on merely 
having  civilian  nuclear  programmes  continue  to  defy 
multiple Security Council resolutions and incur the costs 
of crippling sanctions on its economy? And why would 
a country with a peaceful nuclear programme develop 
intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) whose sole 
purpose is to deliver nuclear warheads? You do not build 
ICBMs  to  carry  TNT  thousands  of  miles  away.  You 
build them for one purpose: to carry nuclear warheads. 
Iran is now building ICBMs that the United States says 
could reach this city in three or four years.
Why would they do all that? The answer is simple. 
Iran  is  not  building  a  peaceful  nuclear  programme. 
Iran  is  developing  nuclear  weapons.  Last  year  alone, 
Iran  enriched  three  tons  of  uranium  to  3.5  per  cent, 
doubled its stockpile of 20 per cent-enriched uranium 
and  added  thousands  of  new  centrifuges,  including 
advanced  centrifuges.  It  also  continued  work  on  the 
heavy-water  reactor  in  Arak  in  order  to  have  another 
route to the bomb — a plutonium path. Since Rouhani’s 
election  —  and  I  stress  this  —  that  vast  and  feverish 
effort has continued unabated.
Underground  nuclear 
facilities?  Heavy  water 
reactors? Advanced centrifuges? ICBMs? It is not that it 
is hard to find evidence that Iran has a nuclear-weapons 
programme; it is hard to find evidence that Iran does not 
have  a  nuclear-weapons  programme.  Last  year,  when 
I spoke here at the United Nations (see A/67/PV.12), I 
drew a red line. Iran has been very careful not to cross 
that line. But Iran is positioning itself to race across that 
line in future, at a time of its choosing. Iran wants to 
be in a position to rush forward to build nuclear bombs 
before the international community can detect it, much 
less prevent it. Yet Iran faces one big problem, and that 
problem is summed up in one word: sanctions.
I  have  argued  for  many  years,  including  from 
this  rostrum,  that  the  only  way  to  peacefully  prevent 
Iran  from  developing  nuclear  weapons  is  to  combine 
tough  sanctions  with  a  credible  military  threat.  That 
policy is today bearing fruit. Thanks to the efforts of 
many countries, many represented here, and under the 
leadership  of  the  United  States,  tough  sanctions  have 
taken  a  big  bite  out  of  Iran’s  economy.  Oil  revenues 
have  fallen.  The  currency  has  plummeted.  Banks  are 
hard pressed to transfer money. As a result, the regime 
is under intense pressure from the Iranian people to get 
the sanctions removed. That is why Rouhani got elected 
in  the  first  place.  That  is  why  he  launched  his  charm 
offensive.  He  definitely  wants  to  get  the  sanctions 
lifted — I guarantee the Assembly that — but he does 
not want to give up Iran’s nuclear-weapons programme 
in return.
Here is the strategy to achieve that: first, smile a lot. 
Smiling never hurts. Secondly, pay lip service to peace, 
democracy  and  tolerance.  Thirdly,  offer  meaningless 
concessions in exchange for lifting sanctions. Fourthly, 
and most important, ensure that Iran retains sufficient 
nuclear  material  and  sufficient  nuclear  infrastructure 
to race to the bomb at a time that it chooses to do so. 
Why  does  Rouhani  think  he  can  get  away  with  that? 
This is a ruse, a ploy. Why does Rouhani think he can 
get away with that? Because he has gotten away with it 
before. Because his strategy of talking a lot and doing 
little  has  worked  for  him  in  the  past.  He  even  brags 
about  it.  Here  is  what  he  said  in  his  2011  book  about 
his  time  as  Iran’s  chief  nuclear  negotiator:  “While 
we were talking to the Europeans in Tehran, we were 
installing  equipment  in  Isfahan”.  For  those  here  who 
do  not  know,  the  Isfahan  facility  is  an  indispensable 
part  of  Iran’s  nuclear-weapons  programme.  That  is 
where uranium ore called yellowcake is converted into 
an  enrichable  form.  Rouhani  boasted:  “By  creating  a 
calm environment, we were able to complete the work 
in  Isfahan”.  He  fooled  the  world  once;  now  he  thinks 
he  can  fool  it  again.  Rouhani  thinks  he  can  have  his 
yellowcake and eat it too.
He  has  another  reason  to  believe  that  he  can  get 
away with that, and that reason is called North Korea. 
Like Iran, North Korea also said its nuclear programme 
was for peaceful purposes. Like Iran, North Korea also 
offered  meaningless  concessions  and  empty  promises 
13-49063
33/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
in  return  for  sanctions  relief.  In  2005,  North  Korea 
agreed to a deal that was celebrated the world over by 
many well-meaning people. Here is what a New York 
Times editorial had to say about it:
“For  years  now,  foreign  policy  insiders  have 
pointed to North Korea as the ultimate nightmare ... a 
closed,  hostile  and  paranoid  dictatorship  with  an 
aggressive nuclear-weapons programme. Very few 
could envision a successful outcome. And yet North 
Korea agreed in principle this week to dismantle its 
nuclear-weapons programme, return to the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty,  abide  by  the  Treaty’s 
safeguards and admit international inspectors.
“Diplomacy,  it  seems,  does  work  after  all.” 
(New York Times, 20 September 2005)
A  year  later,  North  Korea  exploded  its  first  nuclear-
weapon device.
Yet as dangerous as a nuclear-armed North Korea 
is,  it  pales  in  comparison  to  the  danger  of  a  nuclear-
armed  Iran.  A  nuclear-armed  Iran  would  have  a 
chokehold on the world’s main energy supplies. It would 
trigger  nuclear  proliferation  throughout  the  Middle 
East, turning the most unstable part of the planet into 
a nuclear tinderbox. And for the first time in history, it 
would make the spectre of nuclear terrorism a clear and 
present danger.
A  nuclear-armed  Iran  in  the  Middle  East  would 
not  be  another  North  Korea.  It  would  be  another 
50 North Koreas. I know that some in the international 
community  think  that  I  am  exaggerating  that  threat. 
Sure, they know that Iran’s regime leads these chants: 
“Death  to  America!”,  “Death  to  Israel!”.  Then  it 
pledges to wipe Israel off the map. But they think that 
wild rhetoric is just bluster for domestic consumption. 
Have those people learned nothing from history? The 
last century has taught us that, when a radical regime 
with global ambitions gets awesome power, sooner or 
later its appetite for aggression knows no bounds. That 
is the central lesson of the twentieth century. And we 
cannot forget it.
The  world  may  have  forgotten  that  lesson;  the 
Jewish people have not. Iran’s fanaticism is not bluster. 
It is real. That fanatic regime must never be allowed to 
arm itself with nuclear weapons. I know that the world 
is weary of war. We in Israel know all too well the cost 
of  war.  But  history  has  taught  us  that  to  prevent  war 
tomorrow, we must be firm today.
That  raises  the  question:  Can  diplomacy  stop 
that  threat?  The  only  diplomatic  solution  that  would 
work  is  one  that  fully  dismantles  Iran’s  nuclear-
weapons  programme  and  prevents  it  from  having  one 
in the future. President Obama rightly said that Iran’s 
conciliatory  words  must  be  matched  by  transparent, 
verifiable and meaningful action; and to be meaningful, 
a  diplomatic  solution  would  require  Iran  to  do  four 
things;  first,  cease  all  uranium  enrichment,  as  called 
for by several Security Council resolutions; secondly, 
remove from Iran’s territory the stockpiles of enriched 
uranium;  thirdly,  dismantle  the  infrastructure  for  a 
nuclear-breakout capability, including the underground 
facility  near  Qom  and  the  advanced  centrifuges  in 
Natanz; and, fourthly, stop all work at the heavy water-
reactor in Arak aimed at the production of plutonium. 
Those steps would put an end to Iran’s nuclear-weapons 
programme and eliminate its breakout capability.
There are those who would readily agree to leave 
Iran  with  a  residual  capability  to  enrich  uranium.  I 
advise them to pay close attention to what Rouhani said 
in  a  speech  to  Iran’s  Supreme  Cultural  Revolutionary 
Council published in 2005. This is what he said:
“A country that can enrich uranium to about 3.5 per 
cent  will  also  have  the  capability  to  enrich  it  to 
about  90  per  cent.  Having  fuel-cycle  capability 
virtually means that a country that possesses this 
capability is able to produce nuclear weapons.”
Precisely:  that  is  why  Iran’s  nuclear-weapons 
programme  must  be  fully  and  verifiably  dismantled. 
That is why the pressure on Iran must continue. Here 
is  what  the  international  community  must  do.  First, 
keep  up  the  sanctions.  If  Iran  advances  its  nuclear-
weapons  programme  during  negotiations,  strengthen 
the sanctions. Secondly, do not agree to a partial deal. 
A  partial  deal  would  lift  the  international  sanctions 
that have taken years to put in place, in exchange for 
cosmetic concessions that will take only weeks for Iran 
to  reverse.  Thirdly,  lift  the  sanctions  only  when  Iran 
fully dismantles its nuclear-weapons programme.
The  international  community  has  Iran  on  the 
ropes. If it wants to knock out Iran’s nuclear-weapons 
programme  peacefully,  do  not  let  up  on  the  pressure. 
Keep it up. We all want to give diplomacy with Iran a 
chance to succeed. But when it comes to Iran, the greater 
the  pressure,  the  greater  the  chance.  Three  decades 
ago, President Ronald Reagan famously advised “trust 
but  verify”.  When  it  comes  to  Iran’s  nuclear-weapons 
34/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
programme, here is my advice: distrust, dismantle and 
verify.
Israel will never acquiesce to nuclear arms in the 
hands  of  a  rogue  regime  that  repeatedly  promises  to 
wipe us off the map. Against such a threat, Israel will 
have no choice but to defend itself. I want there to be 
no confusion on this point: Israel will not allow Iran to 
get nuclear weapons. If Israel is forced to stand alone, 
Israel will stand alone. Yet in standing alone, Israel will 
know that we will be defending many others.
The  dangers  of  a  nuclear-armed  Iran  and  the 
emergence of other threats in our region have led many 
of our Arab neighbours to finally recognize that Israel 
is  not  their  enemy.  That  affords  us  the  opportunity 
to  overcome  historic  animosities  and  build  new 
relationships,  new  friendships  and  new  hopes.  Israel 
welcomes engagement with the wider Arab world. We 
hope that our common interests and common challenges 
will help us forge a more peaceful future.
I  remain  committed 
And Israel continues to seek a historic compromise 
with  our  Palestinian  neighbours,  one  that  ends  our 
conflict  once  and  for  all.  We  want  peace  based  on 
security and mutual recognition in which a demilitarized 
Palestinian State recognizes the Jewish State of Israel.
to  achieving  a  historic 
reconciliation and building a better future for Israelis 
and  Palestinians  alike.  I  have  no  illusions  about  how 
difficult  it  will  be  to  achieve.  Twenty  years  ago,  the 
peace process between Israel and the Palestinians began. 
Six Israeli Prime Ministers — myself included — have 
not succeeded in achieving peace with the Palestinians. 
My  predecessors  were  prepared  to  make  painful 
concessions. So am I.
But  so  far,  Palestinian  leaders  have  not  been 
prepared  to  offer  the  painful  concessions  they  must 
make  in  order  to  end  the  conflict.  For  peace  to  be 
achieved,  the  Palestinians  must  finally  recognize 
the  Jewish  State  and  Israel’s  security  needs  must  be 
met.  I  am  prepared  to  make  a  historic  compromise 
for  a  genuine  and  enduring  peace.  But  I  will  never 
compromise  on  the  security  of  my  people  and  of  my 
country — the one and only Jewish State.
One  cold  day  in  the  late  nineteenth  century,  my 
grandfather,  Nathan,  and  his  younger  brother,  Judah, 
were standing in a railway station in the heart of Europe. 
They were seen by a group of anti-Semitic hoodlums, 
who ran towards them waving clubs, screaming, “Death 
to  the  Jews!”  My  grandfather  shouted  to  his  younger 
brother  to  flee  and  save  himself.  And  he  then  stood 
alone against the raging mob to slow it down. They beat 
him senseless. They left him for dead. Before he passed 
out,  covered  in  his  own  blood,  he  said  to  himself: 
“What  a  disgrace!  What  a  disgrace!  The  descendants 
of the Maccabees lie in the mud, powerless to defend 
themselves.” He promised himself then that if he lived, 
he would take his family to the Jewish homeland and 
help to build a future for the Jewish people.
I stand here today as Israel’s Prime Minister because 
my grandfather kept that promise. So many other Israelis 
have a similar story: a parent or a grandparent who fled 
every conceivable oppression and went to Israel to start 
a new life in our ancient homeland. Together we have 
transformed a bludgeoned Jewish people, left for dead, 
into a vibrant, thriving nation, defending itself with the 
courage  of  modern  Maccabees,  developing  limitless 
possibilities for the future.
In  our  time,  the  Biblical  prophecies  are  being 
realized. As the prophet Amos said,
“They  shall  rebuild  ruined  cities  and  inhabit 
them.  They  shall  plant  vineyards  and  drink  their 
wine.  They  shall  till  gardens  and  eat  their  fruit. 
And  I  will  plant  them  upon  their  soil  never  to  be 
uprooted again.”
The people of Israel have come home, never to be 
uprooted again.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora 
of the State of Israel for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Minister of Public Affairs 
and the Diaspora of the State of Israel, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate.
Several representatives have requested to speak in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply 
are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  statement  and 
to  5  minutes  for  the  second  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
taking the floor today to respond to Mr. Evo Morales 
13-49063
35/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
Ayma, President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia. 
Since  the  victory  of  the  revolution  over  dictatorship 
in  Libya,  Mr.  Morales  Ayma  has  been  mentioning 
the  name  of  Libya  in  his  dispute  with  the  United 
States  —  specifically,  at  this  rostrum.  We  did  not 
initially consider that important, as it was only political 
propaganda directed against another party that is more 
entitled to respond to it. However, in his statement of 
25 September (see A/68/PV.10), he raised two specific 
questions that merit responses. I am pleased to respond 
with full objectivity.
Mr.  Morales  Ayma  asked  who  had  Libyan  oil 
belonged to and who owns Libyan oil today. I tell him 
that Libyan oil belonged to Muammar Al-Qadhafi and 
his family. He distributed the oil to members of what he 
called, “the international forum to fight imperialism”, 
a  terrorist  organization  founded  by  Al-Qadhafi  and 
including leaders of terrorist organizations. Mr. Morales 
Ayma is very familiar with that organization, as he was 
a prominent member of it. Today Mr. Morales laments 
the  loss  of  the  dictatorship,  because  he  has  lost  an 
excellent source of financing.
Yes, the revenue from the Libyan oil — the oil of 
Al-Qadhafi — was distributed by Al-Qadhafi to support 
his aides and corrupt entities around the world, to sow 
instability and chaos and to kill innocent people. I am 
not exaggerating and I am not being unfair to the tyrant 
Al-Qadhafi.  Any  one  who  does  not  believe  me  could 
listen to him and view his videos. He said that Libyan 
oil  was  not  directed  to  funding  salaries,  but  rather  to 
spreading the philosophy of his so-called Green Book. 
It  contained  the  corrupt  ideas  of  a  single  individual 
wielding  absolute  power,  who  aimed  to  destroy  State 
institutions.  That  is  how  the  revenue  from  Libyan  oil 
was spent during the reign of the tyrant, Al-Qadhafi.
Today Libyan oil is in the hands of the Libyan people, 
who use it to repair what was destroyed by Al-Qadhafi 
over four decades, to build a robust infrastructure and 
to  provide  the  best  basic  services  possible  to  Libyan 
citizens.
I  do  not  blame  Mr.  Morales  Ayma,  because  he 
knows the truth only about what concerns him — the 
millions of dollars that he regularly received from the 
tyrant Al-Qadhafi. Mr. Morales Ayma definitely knew 
that Libya was one of the richest States on the African 
continent, but I imagine that he did not know — perhaps 
he  did  not  care  to  know  —  that  more  than  a  quarter 
of the Libyan people lived below the poverty line; that 
the  salaries  of  Libyan  civil  servants  were  the  lowest 
salaries among State employees in the region; that the 
health and education systems in Libya were the worst in 
the region while Al-Qadhafi was in power; that Libya 
was one of the most corrupt States; and that most of the 
towns in Libya did not have a sanitation system. There 
was no public transportation in Libya, neither between 
towns  nor  between  cities.  Libya  is  probably  the  only 
country  in  the  world  where  there  is  no  post  office  or 
postal code. Most city streets do not even have names.
that  prevailed  while 
Al-Qadhafi was in power. Al-Qadhafi was Mr. Morales 
Ayma’s friend because the revenue from Libyan oil was 
distributed  outside  Libya  to  people  like  Mr.  Morales, 
while  the  Libyan  people  lived  in  poverty,  while  the 
infrastructure was crumbling and while basic services 
were worsening from day to day.
the  situation 
That 
is 
Mr.  Morales  Ayma  also  spoke  about  what  he 
called  the  shelling  of  Libya.  No,  Sir,  Libya  was  not 
bombarded.  The 
international  community  helped 
Libya and bombed the troops of the despot who were 
bombing  the  towns  and  villages  and  were  killing 
innocent people indiscriminately. It is regrettable that 
Mr. Morales Ayma still does not want to acknowledge 
the  atrocities  committed  by  the  security  forces  of  his 
friend Al-Qadhafi against the Libyan people. He would 
have wanted the international community to continue to 
look at the tyrant, to watch the tyrant kill Libyans while 
others looked on. No, Mr. Morales Ayma must respect 
the will of the Libyan people. If he has a problem with 
a State or with a party, he should not use Libya to harm 
others. The Libyan people know who helped them and 
who  had  helped  their  executioner.  Despite  that,  the 
Libyan people extend a hand to all of those who wish to 
have their friendship and who respect their will.
Mr. Seifi Pargou (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like to make the following points regarding allegations 
made against the Iranian nuclear programme.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  an  inalienable 
right to peaceful nuclear energy and is fully committed 
to its non-proliferation obligations. All Iranian nuclear 
activities  are  and  have  always  been  exclusively  for 
peaceful  purposes.  Iran  continues  to  cooperate  fully 
with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), 
and all its nuclear activities are carried out under the 
surveillance of the Agency’s cameras and of its resident 
inspectors,  who  regularly  visit  all  nuclear  sites  and 
measure and seal enriched-uranium containers.
36/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Some  of  Iran’s  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
has  exceeded  its  legal  obligations.  It  is  carried  out 
to  build  more  trust  and  confidence.  As  a  result,  the 
non-diversion of declared nuclear materials in Iran has 
always  been  confirmed  by  all  reports  of  the  Agency. 
The latest IAEA report, dated 28 August 2013, states 
that “ the Agency continues to verify the non-diversion 
of  declared  nuclear  material  at  the  nuclear  facilities 
...  declared  by  Iran  under  its  Safeguards  Agreement” 
(GOV/2013/40, para. 67).
While  fully  supporting 
the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  energy  by  all  nations,  we  strongly  reject  the 
possession  of    nuclear  weapons  by  any  nation.  This 
is  our  principled  position:  nuclear  energy  for  all, 
nuclear weapons for none. We fully support addressing 
genuine non-proliferation concerns. However, we reject 
equating the peaceful uses of nuclear energy with the 
development of nuclear weapons.
Iranian  officials  at  all  levels  have  stated  time 
and  time  again  that,  in  addition  to  our  international 
obligations,  Islamic  teachings  also  oblige  us  not  to 
pursue a nuclear-weapon programme. Likewise, from a 
security point of view, we believe that those inhumane 
weapons have not and never will bring about security. 
They are the greatest threat to the security of both the 
nuclear-weapon  “haves”  and  the  “have  nots”.  There 
is  not  a  single  acceptable  reason  to  possess  nuclear 
weapons,  but  there  are  many  acceptable  reasons  to 
abolish  them  all.  For  those  reasons,  nuclear  weapons 
have no place in the defence doctrine of my country.
Despite  all  of  that,  some  countries  still  express 
concerns  over  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme.  At  the 
same  time,  there  exist  deep  mistrust  and  concerns 
among  the  Iranian  nation  over  the  policies  and 
intentions  of  those  countries.  Therefore,  there  is  a 
need  to  build  mutual  trust,  which  is  possible  only  by 
resorting  to  the  force  of  logic,  not  the  logic  of  force. 
In  our  time,  the  golden  rule  is  to  resort  to  diplomacy 
alone. A sustainable solution is attainable only through 
respectful  negotiations.  For  its  part,  Iran  has  already 
expressed  its  full  readiness  to  faithfully  engage  in  a 
meaningful, time-bound and result-oriented negotiation 
process.
Iran  stands  ready  to  ensure  that  its  nuclear 
programme  will  continue  to  be  exclusively  peaceful. 
That can remove the concerns of other parties. In return, 
and as a first step — in addition to acknowledging the 
inherent right of Iran to peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
including  a  full  national  nuclear  fuel  cycle  —  they 
should dispel Iranians’ concerns. All sanctions should 
be annulled, be they multilateral or unilateral. It goes 
without saying that good faith, genuine political will, 
mutual respect and equal treatment with the interest of 
all parties in mind are essential for a win-win solution. 
Therefore,  other  parties  also  need  to  adopt  the  same 
approach. Moreover, I should underline the important 
contribution that other countries can make through that 
process by supporting diplomacy and helping to sustain 
the current positive atmosphere that is necessary for the 
effectiveness of diplomacy.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  sincerely  thank  all 
countries  that  continue  to  support  our  sovereign 
right  to  peaceful  nuclear  science  and  technology  and 
those that, over the past several days, have supported 
the  ongoing  process  in  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear 
programme.  Despite  that  fact,  we  have  just  heard  an 
extremely inflammatory statement by the last speaker 
in the general debate of the General Assembly, in which 
the Israeli Prime Minister made allegations against the 
peaceful nuclear activities of my country.
I do not want to dignify such unfounded accusations 
with an answer other than categorically rejecting them 
all. The Prime Minister tried to mislead this organ about 
the Iranian nuclear programme, but unlike last year, he 
did so without cartoon drawings behind him. The most 
ironic part of his comments were when he tried to be 
more  royal  than  the  king  by  setting  standards  for  the 
type  and  scope  of  Iran’s  nuclear  activities,  the  level 
of  its  uranium  enrichment  and  plutonium  production, 
and so on and so forth. He must know that no one can 
dictate to Iran what to do or not to do.
As a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  Iran  is  fully  aware  of  its 
rights  and  is  fully  committed  to  its  obligations.  The 
party  that  is  badly  in  need  of  education  about  those 
issues is Israel, which is the only non-party to the NPT 
in  the  Middle  East.  To  that  end,  Israel  has  no  choice 
but  to  accede  to  the  NPT  without  further  delay  and 
condition, and place all of its nuclear activities under 
IAEA comprehensive safeguards.
We  have  talked  a  lot  about  weapons  of  mass 
destruction in the Middle East without mentioning that 
Israel is the only country in the region that, although 
it possesses all types of weapons of mass destruction, 
is  not  a  party  to  any  of  the  treaties  banning  them. 
Moreover,  the  Prime  Minister  also  did  not  talk  about 
13-49063
37/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
the 2012 conference on the establishment of a Middle 
East zone free of weapons of mass destruction, which 
was not convened due only to Israeli objections.
Like  last  year,  the  Prime  Minister  also  continued 
sabre-rattling  towards  Iran  by  abusing  the  Assembly 
for threatening a founding Member of the Organization, 
which  was  established  first  and  foremost  for  the 
prevention and removal of threats to the peace and the 
suppression  of  acts  of  aggression  and  other  breaches 
of  the  peace,  according  to  its  Charter.  Definitely,  he 
enjoys full freedom to be proud of all the atrocities and 
more than 10 wars waged during the past 65 years by 
the  Israeli  regime  against  not  only  all  its  neighbours 
but  others  as  well.  He  also  may  wish  to  apply  for  an 
international  award  certifying  the  ability  of  Israeli 
forces  in  never-ending  savage  attacks  against  peoples 
under occupation, in particular defenceless women and 
innocent children.
However,  the  Prime  Minister  should  seriously 
avoid  miscalculations  about  Iran.  Iran’s  centuries-old 
policy of non-aggression must not be interpreted as its 
inability  to  defend  itself.  Unlike  Israel,  Iran  has  not 
attacked and would not attack any country. That is not 
because of inability, but due to its principled policy in 
rejecting the use of force. Iranians are proud of being 
the best at exercising their inherent right of self-defence 
under Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Therefore,  the  Israeli  Prime  Minister  had  better  not 
even think about attacking Iran, let alone planning for 
such an attack.
In conclusion, I would like to refer to a point made 
by my Foreign Minister some days ago. We have been 
accused  of  launching  a  charm  offensive,  and  he  said 
that a charm offensive is better than a military attack. 
A charm policy is much better than lying.
The President: I remind members that in exercising 
the right of reply delegations are limited to 10 minutes.
Mr. Musayev (Azerbaijan): I would like to exercise 
my right of reply to the statement by the Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Armenia  in  the  general  debate  on 
28 September (see (A/68/PV.19).
As  can  be  noted  from  that  statement,  Armenia  is 
denying the facts that point to its policy of aggression, 
hostility,  hatred,  outright 
falsification. 
According  to  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Armenia, his Government welcomed the joint statement 
on  the  conflict  settlement  made  on  18  June  by  the 
lies  and 
Presidents of the three co-Chair countries of the Minsk 
Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe. However,  merely  welcoming  declarative 
statements  is  not  sufficient  for  achieving  progress 
in  the  conflict-settlement  process,  especially  when 
the  commitments  and  deeds  of  Armenia  have  always 
been  at  odds  with  that  goal.  Thus,  for  example,  the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Armenia tried to assure 
the  United  Nations  community  of  his  Government’s 
adherence  to  the  principles  of  international  law,  in 
particular  those  reflected  in  the  aforementioned  joint 
statement of 18 June.
In reality, Armenia has grossly violated those and 
other  principles  of  international  law  by  seizing  and 
continuing  to  occupy  and  control  Nagorno  Karabakh 
and  other  areas  of  Azerbaijan.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that,  in  contrast  to  Armenia’s  interpretation  of 
international  legal  norms  and  principles,  the  primary 
objective  in  the  context  of  the  ongoing  conflict 
settlement process must be first and foremost to ensure 
that  the  occupied  Azerbaijan  territories  are  liberated, 
that  forcibly  displaced  people  return  to  their  homes, 
and  that  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  establish  relations 
on the basis of respect for each other’s sovereignty and 
territorial integrity.
rejects 
that 
Armenia 
understanding, 
thus 
preventing the achievement of the negotiated settlement 
of the conflict and continuing to violate international 
law.  In  the  words  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  Armenia,  “Azerbaijan  keeps  misinterpreting  the 
1993  Security  Council  resolutions”.  Such  a  deduction 
is  obviously  not  only  unproven,  but  is  also  easily 
refuted  by  numerous  facts  and  documents  testifying 
to Armenia’s non-compliance with the requirements of 
the Security Council’s resolutions and to its determined 
efforts to undermine the process of settling the conflict 
on the basis of international law.
The  head  of  Armenian  diplomacy  got  so  carried 
away  that  he  accused  Azerbaijan  of  committing 
aggression. Such an irresponsible allegation is nothing 
other  than  utter  falsehood.  Otherwise,  he  would  have 
noticed  that  the  Security  Council  has  not  only  not 
mentioned  aggression  on  the  part  of  Azerbaijan  in 
any  of  its  relevant  four  resolutions  and  presidential 
statements, but rather that it has condemned the use of 
force against it and the occupation of its territory.
The arguments of the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Armenia are also in apparent contradiction with the 
statements made by the most senior leaders of his own 
38/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
country, however surprising that may seem. It has been 
publicly acknowledged at the highest level in Armenia 
that the war was started by the Armenian side and that 
the aim of the war was to implement the long-nurtured 
plan of seizing Azerbaijani territory. Yerevan has also 
admitted  that,  during  the  active  military  phase  of  the 
conflict,  it  was  the  Armenian  side  that  intentionally 
ignored  the  demands  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
immediate  cessation  of  all  military  activities  and 
hostile acts.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Armenia further 
noted that, after the ceasefire agreement signed in 1994, 
the  mediator  countries,  which  are  three  permanent 
members of the Security Council, allegedly have never 
made  any  reference  to  its  1993  resolutions.  To  prove 
the absurdity of this view and the conclusions based on 
it, it is sufficient to recall the presidential statement of 
26 April 1995 (S/PRST/1995/21), in which the Council 
reaffirmed all its previous statements and resolutions. 
The resolutions of the Security Council have also been 
recalled  by  the  mediator  countries  and  other  States 
and  international  organizations  on  a  number  of  other 
occasions.
By claiming that Azerbaijan is allegedly rejecting 
the  implementation  of  confidence-building  measures, 
the  Armenian  side  falls  into  its  usual  forgetfulness. 
Otherwise,  the  officials  of  that  country  would  recall 
that  Armenia  deliberately  denies  the  right  of  almost 
1 million Azerbaijani refugees and internally displaced 
persons to return to their homes and undertakes efforts 
to  alter  the  demographic  situation  in  the  occupied 
territories  and  remove  any  signs  of  their  Azerbaijani 
cultural and historical roots.
Armenia’s  speculations  on  confidence-building 
are  also  curious  insofar  as  it  persistently  opposes 
direct contacts between the Azerbaijani and Armenian 
communities  of  Nagorno  Karabakh.  Likewise,  the 
undisguised promotion by the leadership of Armenia of 
the odious ideas of ethnic and religious incompatibility 
with and hatred of Azerbaijan and other neighbouring 
nations  can  hardly  contribute  to  building  confidence. 
Furthermore, regular ceasefire violations and deliberate 
attacks  by  the  armed  forces  of  Armenia  against 
Azerbaijani civilians and civilian objects have become 
more frequent and violent in recent times, resulting in 
the killing and wounding of many inhabitants residing 
near the front lines. Besides, in apparent disregard of its 
obligation under international law and of its respective 
commitments under the existing arms control regime, 
Armenia  continues  to  build  up  its  military  presence 
in  the  occupied  territories.  Moreover,  comparative 
analyses  show  that,  in  relation  to  its  population, 
territory,  annual  budget  and  gross  domestic  product, 
Armenia is the most militarized country in the South 
Caucasus.
Instead of lecturing other countries about what is 
good and what is bad, it would be useful if the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Armenia would recall the direct 
involvement  of  the  current  political  and  military 
leadership  of  his  country  in  brutal  massacres  during 
the  conflict,  which  claimed  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
Azerbaijani  civilians,  including  children,  women  and 
the elderly.
Evidence of a special relationship in Armenia with 
terrorists  and  war  criminals  can  also  be  seen  in  their 
glorification  at  the  State  level,  including  by  raising 
them  to  the  status  of  national  heroes  and  bestowing 
State  decorations  on  them.  Speculations  on  fictitious 
anti-Armenian  hate  speeches  in  Azerbaijan  are  also 
beneath  all  criticism.  Suffice  it  to  say  that,  unlike 
Armenia, which has implemented a policy of total ethnic 
cleansing  of  both  its  own  territory  and  the  occupied 
territories of Azerbaijan of all non-Armenians and thus 
succeeded in creating a uniquely mono-ethnic culture 
in those areas, Azerbaijan has preserved its ethnic and 
cultural diversity to the present day.
The  conclusion  is  self-evident.  In  reality,  by 
disregarding the resolutions of the Security Council, by 
challenging  the  peace  efforts  led  by  the  Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe, by continuing 
to  illegally  occupy  the  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  by 
deliberately denying the right of 1 million Azerbaijani 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  to  return 
to  their  homes,  and  by  misinterpreting  the  norms 
and  principles  of  international  law,  Armenia  clearly 
demonstrates who is actually endangering regional and 
international peace.
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): With regard to the nuclear issue relating to the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  I  would  like 
to  draw  attention,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  to  our 
unique  security  environment,  which  is  that  of  being 
threatened  and  blackmailed  by  the  largest  nuclear-
weapon  State.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  draw 
attention to the following facts.
First, in 1957 the United States introduced the first 
nuclear weapon into South Korea and thereby began the 
13-49063
39/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
presence of nuclear weapons in the country. Secondly, 
in  the  1970s  the  number  of  nuclear  weapons  on  the 
Korean peninsula topped 1,000 and thereby made the 
Korean  peninsula  the  most  densely  populated  zone 
full  of  nuclear  weapons.  Thirdly,  in  2002  the  United 
States Administration named the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea part of the axis of evil and thereby 
sent  the  strong  message  to  the  entire  international 
community  that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  is  a  country  to  be  eliminated.  Fourthly,  the 
same  Administration  added  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  the  list  of  targets  of  a  nuclear 
pre-emptive strike.
In addition to all these nuclear weapons, every year 
the United States and South Korea hold military drills, 
as  has  been  mentioned  several  times  in  the  current 
session. In March 2013, the situation was on the brink 
of war, and the international community realized how 
dangerous the situation was — and when I say dangerous, 
I  mean  a  possible  outbreak  of  nuclear  war  —  with  a 
massive  arms  build-up  of  nuclear  weapons,  advanced 
and  carried  by  the  USS  George  Washington  Nimitz-
class  aircraft  carrier,  and  other  weapons  and  means, 
including  nuclear-powered  submarines  and  B-52s, 
brought from the mainland across the Pacific Ocean.
This  blackmail  is  culminating  in  a  threat  to  the 
survival  of  the  Korean  nation  as  a  whole,  including 
the North and South of Korea. In this unique security 
environment,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea has had no other option but to go nuclear in order 
to defend the country and its people and to not allow 
nuclear  weapons  to  drop  on  our  people.  That  nuclear 
deterrent  served  us  and  made  a  great  contribution  to 
lasting peace and security on the Korean peninsula, the 
region and the world.
I would like to make three points concerning the last 
speaker’s remarks in the general debate this morning. 
First, that country has no justification for talking about 
somebody  else,  as  it  is  a  full-fledged  nuclear-weapon 
State.  Secondly,  it  is  a  cancer  in  the  Middle  East, 
disturbing  peace  and  security  and  shifting  the  blame 
on all other countries of the region. Thirdly, there are 
two  issues,  one  concerning  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, the other Israel. While the United 
States  makes  a  lot  of  noise  regarding  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, it is mum, quiet and silent 
with regard to the nuclear weapons of Israel.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): Bolivia feels compelled to take the 
floor after listening to the representative of Libya, who 
made a set of bold and absurd statements divorced from 
reality.
First,  in  a  very  fraternal  manner,  I  would  draw 
attention  to  a  violation  of  the  procedure  whereby, 
according to our norms, replies to a Head of State must 
be made in writing. In his instance, they have exploited 
the good faith of the President of the General Assembly 
to  proffer  unacceptable  insults  against  President  Evo 
Morales, against the Plurinational State of Bolivia and 
against their people.
Bolivia  has  condemned,  continues  to  condemn, 
and  will  always  condemn  any  imperialistic  attack 
committed  anywhere  in  the  world.  We  will  continue 
to draw attention to the true motives of those imperial 
aggressions motivated by the appropriation of natural 
resources  and  by  geostrategic  interests.  Lies  are  not 
going  to  silence  us,  especially  when  they  come  from 
those  who  until  a  few  years  ago  defended  Muammar 
Al-Qadhafi and who now call him a tyrant.
Furthermore, we believe that it is crucial to point 
out very clearly to those who write the scripts attacking 
President  Evo  Morales  that  we  are  not  going  to  fall 
into  the  trap  that  seeks  to  divert  the  attention  of  the 
General  Assembly  from  the  main  issue,  which  is  the 
ongoing struggle in the defence of the interests, values 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations — a 
struggle  to  ensure  that  no  more  unilateral  attacks  are 
committed in any part of the world, that international 
law  is  not  violated,  and  the  natural  resources  of  our 
peoples are not looted.
While the Bolivian people have great respect and 
great  admiration  for  the  Libyan  people,  in  the  case 
in  question,  given  the  words  of  the  representative  of 
Libya, we reserve the right to take any legal action in 
our power to deliver a public response to the shameless 
lies  spoken  by  the  representative  of  Libya.  As  I  said, 
these  lies  were  aimed  at  diverting  attention  from  the 
very courageous and dignified statement delivered by 
President  Evo  Morales  in  this  Hall  (see  A/68/PV.10). 
President  Evo  Morales  highlighted  the  need  for  those 
who  violate  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  threaten  to  bomb  other  States  to 
stand trial for their crimes. Bolivia will not be silenced 
or, I reiterate, allow such absolutely groundless attacks 
on the dignity of my people and my country.
40/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
Likewise, Bolivia endorses the decision to promote 
the prosecution of the Government of the United States 
for crimes against humanity and war crimes. We know 
who defends the interests of the United States. It does 
not surprise us, but at least they should have the dignity 
to  do  so  on  the  basis  of  truths,  and  not  on  the  basis 
of lies or fallacious statements. I reiterate categorically 
that the insults proferred here will not go unanswered or 
remain confined to the records of the General Assembly. 
Once again Bolivia has condemned, condemns and will 
continue to condemn such attacks and offences against 
the sovereignty of peoples and international law.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  I  apologize  for  taking 
the floor. It was not my intention to do so. However, I 
am compelled to take the floor to reply to the comments 
made  just  now  by  the  representative  of  Azerbaijan. 
Those  comments  were  based  on  even  more  lies,  in 
addition to the statement made earlier by the Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Azerbaijan  (see  A/68/PV.18). 
As usual, it did not contain a single true statement. It 
is  probably  easy  to  make  statements  when  nobody  is 
verifying what one says, or what is true and what is a 
lie.
I will not go into too much detail in explaining that 
whatever happened back in 1988 was the expression of 
the right of self-determination by the people of Nagorno 
Karabakh  or  the  fact  that  the  realization  of  their 
absolutely legal, constitutional right was responded to 
by hostilities, massacres and war by Azerbaijan against 
a peaceful population. That is how it all started, from 
the aggression of Azerbaijan against the Armenians of 
Nagorno Karabakh.
Nothing  that  Azerbaijan  tells  the  world  from  any 
rsotrum can be considered factual. On the contrary, it is 
a constant barrage of lies combined with anti-Armenian, 
racist rhetoric. I guess that the strategy is to recount so 
many unbelievable lies and to repeat them so often that 
sooner or later people will get used to them. In fact they 
have  repeated  those  lies  so  often  that  they  do  believe 
they are true. But I assure the Assembly that that is just 
wishful thinking. What can one expect from a country 
whose president openly declares that the Armenians of 
the world are the enemy of Azerbaijan? I believe that 
is called xenophobia and is punishable by law, at least 
in  the  civilized  world  that  I  am  from  and  that  we  all 
represent.
Azerbaijan  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that 
boasts  of  its  astronomical  military  expenditures.  I 
believe that raising the defence budget is not something 
to  be  proud  of,  especially  as  the  rest  of  the  world  is 
thinking about development goals and many countries 
do  not  have  the  required  resources  to  do  so.  But 
the  President  of  Azerbaijan  makes  proud  and  loud 
declarations  about  that,  threatening  Armenia  and 
Nagorno Karabakh with war by declaring:
“Today,  our  state  budget  is  almost  10  times  that 
of Armenia. Our military spending alone is about 
30 to 50 per cent higher than the entire State budget 
of Armenia.”
Azerbaijan  is  a  country  where  someone  who  has 
killed  a  foreigner  —  an  Armenian,  let  us  say  —  is 
considered to be a national hero, and the name of that 
hero is Safarov. In any democratic country, a murderer 
would  have  received  what  is  prescribed  by  law.  The 
murderer of a person who is sleeping would have been 
branded  a  coward,  a  murderer  down  the  generations, 
But,  in  Azerbaijan  he  is  glorified  and  declared  a 
national hero.
Azerbaijan uses the tactic that the best defence is a 
good offence, hoping that it will be saved by putting the 
blame on everybody else for what the world condemns 
it  for.  However,  no  one —  not  even  even  Azerbaijan, 
rich in oil dollars — can manipulate world and public 
opinion.  Therefore,  no  Azerbaijani,  especially  no 
Azerbaijani  official,  has  any  historical,  moral  or 
legal right to tell the people of the Nagorno Karabakh 
Republic how to live, where to live or how independent 
to be.
The  Azerbaijani  leadership  speaks  two  different 
languages.  On  the  one  hand,  it  calls  for  peaceful 
dialogue  and  resolution  of  the  conflict  while  putting 
the  blame  for  each  and  every  thing  on  Armenia  and 
Armenians.  On  the  other  hand,  the  President  of  the 
country declares:
“We can never allow Armenia to join any political, 
economic, energy and transport projects. We have 
isolated  them  and  make  no  secret  of  that.  In  the 
future, our isolation policy must be continued. It is 
paying off.”
Security  Council 
call  on 
Azerbaijan  to  stop  hostilities  against  the  peaceful 
population of Nagorno Karabakh. Despite the ceasefire 
agreement  that  Azerbaijan  signed  back  in  1994  with 
the  de  facto  authorities  of  Nagorno  Karabakh,  it 
continues  the  sniper  shooting  on  the  line  of  contact, 
resolutions 
also 
13-49063
41/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
killing  soldiers  and  civilians  alike  and  rejecting  the 
withdrawal  of  snipers,  which  could  be  a  positive  and 
effective confidence-building measure. If Azerbaijan’s 
willingness to return refugees and internally displaced 
persons to their homes is truly sincere, they just need 
to follow up on the principles proposed by the Minsk 
Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe. I think that would pay off in a real and right 
way.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your  patience.  I 
only wanted to reassert my second right of reply, but, 
out of respect for your person, I will only say that, in 
my entire life, I have never lied and that, in this life, I 
will never lie. Those who are interested in seeing our 
documents are welcome to see them.
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  It 
is  unfortunate 
that  the  delegation  of  Armenia  has  once  again  used 
the  opportunity  of  our  debate  to  make  groundless, 
propagandistic statements. In reality, we have witnessed 
yet another unsuccessful attempt by that Member State 
to mislead the international community.
The  remarks  just  made  by  the  representative  of 
Armenia — full of lies, distortions and misinterpretations, 
which we categorically reject — demonstrate how that 
Member  State  is  far  from  engaging  in  a  constructive 
search for peace in the region. In fact, the delegation of 
Armenia  has  introduced  nothing  new  and  once  again 
abused its right to speak from the high rostrum of the 
General Assembly. As a result, we have heard irrelevant 
and  out-of-context  comments  that  obviously  failed  to 
respond to our arguments. The comments just made by 
the delegation of Armenia are also illustrative of that 
Member State’s uninterrupted attempts to create a false 
impression  of  the  real  situation  on  the  ground  and  to 
deflect  the  attention  of  the  international  community 
from  the  urgent  need  to  address  the  main  problems 
caused by its continuing aggression against Azerbaijan.
We consider the stance of Armenia to be an open 
challenge  to  the  conflict-settlement  process  and  a 
serious  threat  to  international  and  regional  peace  and 
security. The sooner the officials of that country realize 
that 
their  unconstructive  and  dangerous  political 
agenda lacks any prospect of fulfilment, the sooner our 
peoples will be able to benefit from peace, stability and 
cooperation.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  We  regret  the  fact  that  this  forum 
is  being  used  in  violation  of  our  norms  to  attack  the 
dignity not just of a President but also of a people and 
a State Member of the United Nations. We regret that 
attempts are being made to draw attention away from 
the central theme that was raised a number of days ago 
in  the  worthy  and  courageous  statement  of  President 
Evo  Morales  Ayma  (see  A/68/PV.10).  Bolivia  stands 
by  every  word  not  only  in  President  Morales  Ayma’s 
statement, but also in the statement I just made in my 
capacity as Permanent Representative.
Bolivia  will  not  play  the  game  of  trying  to  draw 
attention  away  from  the  core  issue,  namely,  the 
appropriation of natural resources, interventionist wars, 
the  plundering  and  the  geostrategic  military  interests 
of the United States of America. It is up to each of us 
to decide whether we will follow and stand up for the 
scripts  that  have  been  written.  I  repeat  that  the  lies, 
distortions and the manipulations of the representative 
of Libya are totally rejected by Bolivia, and that Bolivia 
will take the appropriate steps that we, of course, have 
the right to take.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  The  only  gauge  for 
measuring  the  sincerity  of  Azerbaijan’s  words  is  the 
results of its participation in the negotiations under the 
auspices  of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  its 
acceptance  of  the  documents  on  the  settlement  of  the 
Nagorno Karabakh conflict adopted in the framework 
of  the  OSCE  summits  and  the  statements  of  the 
Presidents of the co-Chair countries in the framework 
of the Group of Eight and Group of Twenty summits. 
Armenia’s  position  is  in  line  with  those  documents. 
Armenia and the international community are speaking 
in one language regarding the Nagorno Karabakh issue. 
It  is  time  for  Azerbaijan  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the 
world — the world of the United Nations.
I  wonder  how  memory  works  with  the  delegation 
of  Azerbaijan.  I  would  just  remind  them  of  a  couple 
of  important  dates.  In  1988,  the  people  of  Nagorno 
Karabakh  peacefully  asked  for  independence.  They 
were  attacked  by  Azerbaijan.  Armenians  organized 
their  self-defence.  Azerbaijan  unleashed  a  full-scale 
war  from  1992  to  1994,  but  the  people  of  Nagorno 
Karabakh  stopped  the  Azerbaijani  aggression  and 
declared  the  independence  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
Republic.  Those  are  the  brief  historical  events  that 
took place not so long ago, and it is not very difficult 
to  remember  such  basic  textbook  facts  and  to  stop 
42/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
turning  everything  upside  down  and  retelling  history 
in a manner that they would prefer to hear.
actions. They have contributed to the deterrence of war 
on the Korea peninsula for the past several decades.
Listening  to  the  statements  of  the  Azerbaijani 
leadership,  one  comes  to  the  obvious  conclusion  that 
it  is  a  most  racist  and  xenophobic  State.  The  latest 
manifestation of such an attitude took place a few days 
ago. On 18 September, the President of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan said the following:
“... the national flag of Azerbaijan must be raised 
in  Shusha  and  Khankandi,  and  the  Azerbaijanis 
should  live  on  all  of  their  historical  lands  in  the 
future. Our historical lands are the Erivan khanate, 
the  Goycha  and  Zangezur  Mahals.  The  time  will 
come  when  we  Azerbaijanis  will  live  there.  I 
believe in and am sure of that. Time is passing. We 
simply want it to happen soon.”
Let  me  just  clarify  for  the  Assembly  that  all 
those  geographic  names  cited  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Azerbaijan are distorted Azeri versions of 
Armenian names, “Erivan” being “Yerevan”, the capital 
of  an  independent  State,  the  Republic  of  Armenia,  a 
proud  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  I  ask  the 
Assembly, what is that if not an aggressive militaristic 
xenophobia? Is that what the rest of the world expects 
from a member of the Security Council?
Tomorrow,  the  Azerbaijani  delegation  will  brief 
non-Security  Council  members  on  the  programme 
of work for this month, the month of its presidency. I 
am pretty sure that it will speak of the importance of 
peace.  No  one  in  his  right  mind  will  trust  or  believe 
those words. One cannot simultaneously advocate war 
against one’s neighbour and another nation and preach 
for peace.
It sounds more like a wolf in sheep’s clothing. I do 
not buy that kind of preaching. Nor do I think anybody 
should.
Mr.  Lim  Sang  Beom  (Republic  of  Korea):  In 
response  to  the  statement  made  in  right  of  reply  by 
the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea,  I  would  like  to  clarify  that  the  joint  exercises 
of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  are  a 
legitimate part of our defence against the provocations 
and  daily  threats  made  by  North  Korea  against  the 
Republic  of  Korea.  The  joint  exercises,  which  are 
purely  defensive  in  nature,  are  designed  to  enhance 
our combined readiness against North Korea’s military 
On the North Korean nuclear issue and the missile 
threat, under the relevant Security Council resolutions 
and the 19 September 2005 Joint Statement, North Korea 
has the obligation to abandon all nuclear weapons and 
existing  nuclear  programmes,  including  its  uranium-
enrichment programme. Further, resolution 2094 (2013) 
of  7  March  2013,  the  most  recently  adopted  Security 
Council resolution on the issue, made that very clear.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea): The representative of South Korea has just 
made  some  very  absurd  remarks  to  the  193  Member 
States,  which  we  totally  reject  as  misleading.  It  is 
telling distorted truths.
With  reference  to  the  joint  military  exercise,  the 
representative of South Korea said that it was routine 
and defensive, but if one really looks at it one can easily 
see  that  it  is  offensive,  aggressive  and  targeted  at  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Last  month, 
half a million troops and reserve forces were mobilized 
and the most sophisticated means of delivering nuclear 
weapons, from B-52 bombers up to aircraft carriers, were 
deployed. As to the B-52, we all know its capabilities. 
It  is  armed  with  nuclear-weapon-tipped  Tomahawk 
missiles and carries nuclear-weapon gravity bombs to 
be dropped. They came into South Korea to attend the 
drill,  and  a  dropping  exercise  in  real  conditions  was 
conducted on the doorstep of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, threatening the peace and security 
of the Korean peninsula and the region as a whole and 
undermining the climate of peace and development that 
is the major trend in the Asia-Pacific region.
With 
regard 
to 
(2013), 
resolution  2094 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  wishes  once 
again to make it very clear that our country has been 
selected to be manipulated by the United States purely 
out of its hostile policy towards us. It is an abuse of power 
by  the  United  States,  a  so-called  permanent  member 
of  the  Security  Council.  Therefore,  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  never  recognized  the 
Council’s  resolutions.  If  peace  and  security  is  the 
mandate of the Security Council, the joint exercise of 
the United States and South Korea should be cited as 
the gravest threat to the peace and security of the region 
and the Korean peninsula.
Mr.  Lim  Sang  Beom  (Republic  of  Korea):  Once 
again,  North  Korea  has  a  habit  of  blaming  others  for 
13-49063
43/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
its  illicit  activities  and  provocations.  Needless  to  say, 
tension  in  the  region  has  its  roots  in  North  Korea’s 
continued  missile  launches  and  nuclear  tests.  North 
Korea’s argument is nothing more than an irresponsible 
pretext.  Let  me  also  stress  that  not  only  the  Security 
Council  but  also  more  than  80  Member  States  have 
issued  a  statement  condemning  North  Korea’s  third 
nuclear  test  and  urging  it  to  abide  by  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
The  North  Korean  delegation  has  denied  the 
authenticity  and  credibility  of  the  Security  Council, 
which has the primary responsibility for the maintenance 
of international peace and security, a core function of 
the United Nations. Let me point out that all resolutions 
regarding  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
have been unanimously adopted, with votes in favour 
being made by all the Council’s permanent members.
Mr. Seifi Pargou (Islamic Republic of Iran): I wish 
to make a point of clarification, actually. I have been 
informed  that  I  unfortunately  misquoted  my  Foreign 
Minister. What he actually said is that a charm offensive 
is better than a lie attack. I should have memorized that 
then  and  I  will  keep  repeating  it  until  I  do.  A  charm 
offensive is better than a lie attack.
The President: Believe it or not, we have come to 
the end of the general debate of the sixty-eighth session 
of the General Assembly, one in which Member States 
gave voice to their distinct needs and diverse challenges, 
as well as individual and shared concerns. I truly thank 
each and every one of them for sharing their priorities, 
concerns, hopes and expectations for our sixty-eighth 
session.
Permit  me  to  reflect  on  the  major  issues  that 
speakers have identified so as to have a guide for our 
deliberations  going  forward.  Many  will  recall  that  I 
chose  as  the  theme  for  the  sixty-eighth  session  “The 
post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage”. I also 
outlined  a  number  of  priority  areas  for  deliberations 
by  Member  States  in  the  form  of  either  high-level 
events or thematic debates. Virtually every delegation 
that referred to the theme commended the choice and 
pledged  full  support  and  cooperation  for  its  further 
elaboration. That heralds a sense of promise about what 
is  to  come  over  the  next  year.  I  trust  that  we  will  all 
be able to work collectively and creatively during the 
sixty-eighth session.
Building on the achievements of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  many 
delegations  stressed  that  we  now  need  to  begin  work 
towards defining a universal development agenda that 
is inclusive of sustainable development goals based on 
common  but  differentiated  responsibilities.  We  heard 
appreciation  for  the  launch  of  the  high-level  political 
forum as the guardian and catalyst of that agenda.
including, 
Throughout  the  week,  a  number  of  items  were 
mentioned  that  countries  wish  to  see  in  our  new 
agenda, 
inter  alia,  culture,  education, 
climate  change, 
job  creation,  sustainable  energy, 
social  inclusion,  equality  for  all,  access  to  water, 
sustainable  agriculture,  the  use  of  ocean  resources, 
food  security,  health  care,  including  maternal  care, 
non-communicable diseases and the fight against HIV/
AIDS. Some delegations reminded us that democracy, 
human rights, peace and security must also be part of a 
sustainable development agenda, and some emphasized 
the role and empowerment of women, youth, indigenous 
communities and persons with disabilities.
We  heard  emphasis  placed  on 
the  role  of 
partnerships  in  development,  which,  coincidentally, 
will be the focus of one of our thematic debates. There 
were reminders that, while South-South cooperation has 
become an important part of development cooperation, 
it  is  a  complement  to  North-South  cooperation,  not 
a  replacement  for  it.  Partnerships  are  also  needed 
among  State  and  non-State  actors.  The  means  of 
implementation,  the  need  for  adequate  resources  and 
funding,  innovation  and  technology  transfer  were 
further recurring themes.
A  number  of  delegations  reminded  us  that  the 
specific  needs  and  vulnerabilities  of  the  small  island 
developing  States  are  an  important  consideration  for 
the post-2015 development agenda, and  they  welcome 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing  States  to  be  held  in  2014  as  a  vehicle  for 
making contributions.
the 
international  community 
As  we  begin  to  focus  on  the  new  agenda, 
many  delegations  made  reference  to  the  collective 
responsibility  of 
to 
accelerate progress towards the full realization of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  ahead  of  the  2015 
target date. In that context, partnerships and financing 
were also emphasized. Reforming the global economic 
governance  architecture  to  reflect  the  weight  of 
emerging and developing countries was also a concern.
A  number  of  delegations  condemned  the  use 
of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  and  called  for  the 
44/46 
13-49063
01/10/2013 
A/68/PV.23
perpetrators to be held accountable. Many delegations 
expressed  concerns  about 
the  dire  humanitarian 
situation  there.  They  welcomed  Syria’s  decision  to 
accede  to  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  and 
call  for  an  immediate  application  of  its  provisions. 
While many welcomed the unanimous decision of the 
Security Council on Syria (resolution 2118 (2013)), they 
nevertheless  called  on  that  body  to  uphold  the  rules 
of  the  Charter  with  regard  to  further  action.  Many 
expressed a desire to find a negotiated solution at the 
upcoming “Geneva II” conference.
On the issue of Palestine, a number of delegations 
repeated their call for a two-State solution and welcomed 
the  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between  Israel 
and the Palestinians.
With respect to the African region, we heard praise 
for the progress that has been made in countries such 
as Mali and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At 
the same time, concern was expressed for the situations 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Central  African  Republic,  the 
Sudan and the Sahel. On Somalia, there were words of 
both encouragement and caution.
There  were  calls  for  the  international  community 
to  take  action  against  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations.  In  that  regard,  strong  condemnation 
was registered about recent terrorist attacks in Kenya, 
Pakistan and Iraq. Sadly, we can add Nigeria to that list.
In addition, Member States underscored the need to 
protect women and children in conflict and end sexual 
violence in conflict and the enrolment of child soldiers, 
support  the  transition  processes  following  the  Arab 
Spring  and  address  the  issues  of  cybersecurity,  with 
suggestions for the United Nations to play a greater role 
in that area.
Some  nations  expressed  reservations  about  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  which  they  feel  had 
demonstrated  bias  against  a  particular  geographical 
region.
The  need  for  disarmament  was  emphasized  with 
concerns about the use of weapons of mass destruction 
and  the  risk  of  proliferation.  Calls  were  made  for  the 
creation  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones.  Similarly,  the 
use of small arms was reviled for their negative impact 
on  peace  and  security.  Delegations  welcomed  the 
adoption  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  called  for  its 
prompt entry into force.
Delegations  also  highlighted  the  need  to  make 
progress  on  the  important  issue  of  reforming  the 
primary  organs  of  our  institution.  Many  called  for  a 
more  balanced,  fair,  representative  and  accountable 
Security  Council.  Many  mentioned  how  the  use  of 
the  veto  has  had  a  paralysing  effect.  Most  also  want 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  better 
coordination  between  the  two  bodies.  Based  on  the 
strength of the sentiments expressed in that regard, it is 
now up to the States Members of the United Nations to 
move with purposefulness on the required reforms and 
revitalization.
The  general  debate  provides  a  useful  measure  of 
stock-taking on the issues at the forefront of our lives 
within the mandate of the Organization. It is the only 
mechanism by which the 193 Member States can make 
their voices heard. Key issues raised by leaders in the 
general debate are those that affect our countries and 
our people and those that require concerted effort from 
the entire international community.
We are oftentimes accused of being an Organization 
that  is  all  talk  and  no  action.  Perhaps  that  is  so,  but 
I submit that our general debate, which occurs at this 
time  each  year,  serves  an  important  purpose.  Our 
debates  help  us  to  mark  where  we  are  as  a  global 
community and provide guidelines for where we need 
to go. They serve as a useful point of peer review and 
general  accountability.  Moreover,  our  debates  also 
show  that  despite  any  negative  comments  about  the 
United Nations, faith in the Organization’s value as the 
world’s forum of countries continues to be high.
With the guidance we received this past week, it is 
now up to us find common ground among our priorities 
as the basis for moving forward with decisive action. In 
the real world in which we live, such healthy compromise 
is the best outcome of our joint effort. We are the ones 
responsible for finding that common ground, and, with 
the  directions  and  the  reference  points  laid  before  us 
this  week,  it  is  now  up  to  us  to  identify  our  common 
ground and move forward on it.
We are responsible for the implementation of action 
by working to create a post-2015 development agenda. 
During the months to come and throughout the session, 
I  look  forward  to  working  with  the  Assembly  and  to 
realizing meaningful changes and progress.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  my  deep 
appreciation  and  thanks  to  the  Vice-Presidents  of 
the  General  Assembly  as  well  as  the  Department  for 
13-49063
45/46
A/68/PV.23 
01/10/2013
General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management  for 
their unstinting support, long hours and incredibly hard 
work during this period of the session. I thank them.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 8?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.55 p.m.
46/46 
13-49063
