United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
56th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.56
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 29 (continued)
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/68/2)
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
resume its consideration of agenda item 29, “Report of 
the  Security  Council”,  in  order  to  further  deliberate 
on  the  report  of  the  Council,  circulated  in  document 
A/68/2,  in  accordance  with  the  decision  taken  at  its 
49th plenary meeting, on 8 November 2013.
Members will recall that the Assembly considered 
agenda item 29 jointly with agenda item 123, “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”, at its 46th to 49th plenary meetings, on 7 and 
8 November.
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland):  I  am  speaking  in  my 
capacity  as  the  coordinator  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  (ACT)  group,  a  cross-
regional group of 22 States. ACT is composed of Austria, 
Chile, Costa Rica, Estonia, Finland, Gabon, Hungary, 
Ireland, Jordan, Liechtenstein, Maldives, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Portugal,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Slovenia,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Tanzania  and 
Uruguay.
ACT was launched in May 2013 as a new initiative to 
improve the working methods of the Security Council. 
The name is an acronym that stands for Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency,  which  represent  our 
common conviction that those qualities are needed in all 
of the Security Council’s activities. Another important 
element to mention is that ACT takes no position on the 
reform, composition or enlargement of the Council and 
will remain outside that process. We seek improvement 
of the Council’s work in its current status.
The  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
General  Assembly  is  the  highest  expression  of  the 
relationship between those two principal organs of the 
United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  we  value  very  much 
this  opportunity  to  interact  with  the  President  of  the 
Security Council, whom we thank for the introduction 
of the report (see A/68/PV.46).
This is a key moment with respect to the interaction 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  —  an  important  point  of  reflection  on  what 
lies behind us, but also maybe on what lies ahead. We 
therefore welcome this opportunity to further consider 
the report under agenda item 29, in accordance with the 
decision taken in early November.
As during most of the debates in previous years, the 
introduction of the annual report of the Security Council 
has  been  scheduled  jointly  with  another  important 
debate,  that  concerning  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  Both  items 
are, no doubt, very important, as the debate on 7 and 
8 November has shown (see A/68/PV.46-A/68/PV.49). 
However,  we  believe  that  both  items  deserve  the 
Assembly’s full attention.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-57671 (E)
*1357671*
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
Moreover, it is crucial that Member States be able 
to  examine  the  content  of  the  annual  report  in  depth 
before  commenting  on  it.  This  year,  the  Security 
Council  adopted  the  document  on  30  October,  only  a 
week  before  the  scheduled  debate.  I  think  we  should 
give  more  time  to  the  Member  States  between  the 
adoption  of  the  report  and  the  general  debate  in  the 
General Assembly to analyse the contents of the report 
and digest them.
In recent years, the preparation of the annual report 
by  the  Security  Council  has  been  the  object  of  some 
improvements,  which  are  reflected  in,  for  instance, 
note  S/2010/507,  which  we  appreciate.  We  welcome 
also  note  S/2012/922,  adopted  last  December,  which 
included important measures regarding the procedures 
for the preparation and adoption of the report. Although 
there is always room for improvement, we call first and 
foremost  for  the  full  implementation  of  the  measures 
already  agreed  by  the  Council  in  these  presidential 
notes.
ACT is convinced that the whole reporting process, 
from  its  inception  to  its  introduction  in  the  General 
Assembly,  could  benefit  from  increased  interactivity 
with the wider membership through a more transparent 
and participatory exercise, more responsive to relevant 
concerns and overall interest of the general membership 
in  having  access 
to  substantive  and  analytical 
information  concerning  the  Council’s  work.  ACT  has 
several concrete suggestions in that regard. I shall start 
with the preparation phase of the annual report.
There  are  the  monthly  assessments,  which  are 
fundamental tools that contribute to the quality of the 
report,  in  particular  when  drafting  its  introduction; 
hence  the  importance  for  each  Council  presidency  to 
ensure a more substantive and analytical assessment. In 
that context, I would like to make three points.
First,  monthly  assessments  can  indeed  serve  to 
express  informed  and  critical  views  on  the  Council’s 
work  and  provide  more  analytical  material,  to  reflect 
on the results achieved, as well as on its shortcomings. 
According to note S/2012/922, those assessments should 
be issued soon after the end of presidencies in order to 
enhance their utility to the broader membership.
Secondly,  monthly  assessments  are  also,  together 
with wrap-up sessions and end-of-presidency informal 
briefings,  very  useful  tools  to  enhance  transparency. 
Wrap-ups  and 
informal  briefings  can  also  help 
presidencies  in  preparing  their  monthly  assessments. 
Thirdly,  on  that  point,  monthly  assessments  should 
also be compiled to form an integral part of the annual 
report  —  not  only  by  way  of  a  document  reference 
number  —  thus  providing  a  useful  narrative  of  the 
month-by-month evolution of the Council’s work.
ACT welcomes the information on the work of the 
Council’s subsidiary bodies, including, for example, the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions,  and  on  progress  made  with 
regard  to  the  Council’s  working  methods.  However, 
further efforts should be made towards more analytical 
and substantive information regarding the work of all of 
those bodies. Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies could 
play an important role in that regard by preparing annual 
assessments  on  the  work  of  those  bodies,  drawing  on 
the example of monthly assessments already produced 
by  the  presidencies.  Those  assessments  could  also  be 
added to the annual report.
Moreover,  efforts  should  be  made  to  enable  an 
exchange  of  views  and  engagement  with  the  general 
membership  during 
the  preparation  phase.  Some 
presidencies have done that in the past. In line with note 
S/2012/922, we encourage other presidencies in charge 
of  preparing  the  draft  introduction  to  the  report  to 
organize interactive exchanges of view with the wider 
membership  through,  for  instance,  Arria  Formula  or 
other formats. Such a practice — which unfortunately 
has  not  been  regularly  followed  —  would  contribute 
to  greater  involvement  of  the  broader  membership  in 
Security Council matters and to the overall transparency 
of the Council’s work.
Concerning  the  adoption  of  the  report,  ACT 
encourages Council members to use the public-meeting 
format when the annual report is adopted to comment 
on the work of the Council for the period covered by the 
report. That is nothing new; it has already been foreseen 
in  note  S/2010/507  but,  to  our  disappointment,  the 
proposal  has  never  been  implemented.  Implementing 
that  measure  would  not  only  contribute  to  enhancing 
the  Council’s  transparency,  but  would  also  provide 
useful  inputs  to  the  subsequent  debate  in  the  General 
Assembly when the annual report is discussed.
Finally,  regarding  today’s  debate  and  in  line  with 
my earlier comments, ACT suggests that in future, the 
agenda  items  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”  and 
“Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”  be  debated  separately,  as  they  represent,  in 
our view, two separate matters. Moreover, we hope that 
2/12 
13-57671
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.56
sufficient time will be afforded between the adoption of 
the report and the debate in the General Assembly, as I 
noted in my introduction.
This debate provides an opportunity for the wider 
membership to comment to the President of the Security 
Council  on  the  annual  report  and  to  suggest  concrete 
measures  for  improvement.  We  hope  that  the  Council 
and its members will not only hear what we are saying 
here, but will also listen to what we are saying and start 
improving the methodology in future.
ACT,  for  its  part,  will  constructively  contribute 
to  enhancing  the  transparency,  accountability  and 
coherence of the Security Council — the very essence 
of what we are discussuing here today.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  I  thank  the  President  for 
organizing  this  meeting  on  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council for the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 
(A/68/2).
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador 
Samantha  Power  and  the  United  States  delegation  for 
their efforts in preparing the introduction to the report. 
We also thank Ambassador Liu Jieyi and the Chinese 
delegation for introducing the report (see A/68/PV.46). 
In November 2012, as President of the Security Council, 
India  had  the  honour  of  introducing  the  report  (see 
A/67/PV.38).
is  an 
for 
important  means 
We  note  that  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council 
facilitating 
interaction  between  the  most  representative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  —  the  Assembly  —  and  its  most 
empowered  one,  namely,  the  Council.  The  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  itself  bestows  on  the  report  a 
profound gravitas, as is evident from the fact that there 
exists  a  separate  provision  mandating  such  a  report, 
rather  than  clubbing  it  with  the  provision  for  reports 
from other United Nations bodies.
The  membership  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
repeatedly requested that this report be more analytical 
and  incisive,  rather  than  being  a  mere  narration  of 
events.  The  report  before  us,  however,  continues  to 
be  a  statistical  compilation  of  events  and  a  listing  of 
meetings  and  outcome  documents.  That  leaves  us 
with  no  other  option  but  to  recognize  that  the  real 
solution — not only for a more credible, legitimate and 
representative Security Council, but even for a far more 
thorough report — lies in the comprehensive reform of 
the Council, including expansion in both the permanent 
and non-permanent categories and improvement in its 
working methods.
Much of the Council’s efforts and activities during 
the year centred around Africa, including the Central 
African  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Mali  and  Somalia.  The  period  covered  by  the 
report  saw  the  Council  endorsing  the  Peace,  Security 
and  Cooperation  Framework  for 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and the region, signed in Addis 
Ababa  on  24  February.  The  Council  also  authorized 
the  deployment  of  an  intervention  brigade  for  the 
United  Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUSCO) 
to carry out robust activities to take on armed groups, 
as  described  on  page  17  of  the  report.  As  a  major 
troop-contributing country and one with a substantial 
presence in MONUSCO, I would like to underscore the 
need for an objective assessment of the implications of 
such robust mandates for the impartial nature of United 
Nations peacekeeping.
It  is  important  to  remember  that  impartiality 
and  neutrality  are  key  principles  for  ensuring  the 
acceptability of United Nations peacekeepers and their 
safety and security. In the long term, robust mandates 
could  lead  to  further  threats  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  implication  of 
having intervention and traditional peacekeeping units 
under one command, with no differentiation in physical 
appearance, is that that could invite attacks on United 
Nations peacekeepers.
A  related  issue  is  how  to  deter  threats  to  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  from  non-Government  forces 
or militias. We note that the Council has asked for the 
apprehension  of  those  responsible  for  killing  United 
Nations  peacekeepers,  but  not  much  has  happened  to 
ensure  that  so  far,  either  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo  or  in  South  Sudan.  We  would  ask  the 
Council to refer to pages 17 and 34 of its report in that 
context. We call on the Council to take visible steps to 
prosecute and bring to justice those who attack United 
Nations peacekeepers, within a determined time frame. 
The Council has to use its authority to effectively deter 
non-Government forces or militias, which threaten both 
United  Nations  peacekeepers  and,  more  importantly, 
the civilians whom the peacekeepers are protecting.
Robust  mandates  may  also  pose  issues  related  to 
the legal immunity from prosecution of United Nations 
peacekeepers. It is imperative to ensure their immunity 
13-57671
3/12
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
from prosecution in order to ensure that they discharge 
their  duty  smoothly,  especially  at  a 
time  when 
peacekeepers  are  oriented,  before  deployment,  on  the 
various  dimensions  of  international  humanitarian  law 
applicable to United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
In  operations  where  peacekeepers  are  deployed 
without a robust mandate, such as the United Nations 
Disengagement  Observer  Force,  the  threats  to  United 
Nations personnel mentioned on page 49 of the report 
must  be  taken  seriously.  All  Member  States  must  be 
cognizant  of  their  responsibility  under  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations to protect and uphold the integrity 
of United Nations peacekeeping operations. They must 
investigate and prosecute those who blatantly threaten 
United Nations personnel, especially if the sanctity of 
the Security Council is to be maintained.
I am happy that yesterday, Member States adopted 
a resolution on Afghanistan in the General Assembly, 
which we sponsored (resolution 68/11). India expressed 
its full support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and 
Afghan-managed process of peace and reconciliation.
On the issue of counter-terrorism, we recall that the 
Security Council has endorsed a zero-tolerance policy 
for terrorism. That implies that no cause or grievance 
whatsoever, including so-called root causes, can be used 
to justify terrorism. India strongly supports all efforts 
that strengthen international and regional cooperation 
in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  especially  within  the 
purview  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  context,  the 
challenges facing the international community continue 
to grow, as set out on pages 65 and 66 of the report of 
the Security Council before us.
I  cannot  conclude  without  bringing  up  an  issue 
that  has  an  umbilical  relationship  to  the  agenda  item 
of  today’s  debate,  that  is,  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  I  would  like  to  highlight  in  particular  two 
key  issues  in  that  regard  for  members’  consideration. 
First,  the  process  of  bringing  about  Security  Council 
reform  cannot  be  seen  as  an  exercise  that  continues 
ad  infinitum.  A  results-based  timeline  is  imperative. 
Those  representatives  who  request  that  an  artificial 
timeline not be imposed may be advised to desist from 
inflicting artificial delays on the process.
The  debate  convened  by  the  President  on  7  and 
8 November included three important statistics, which 
should be borne in mind as the way forward is planned. 
First, of the nearly 90 countries whose representatives 
took  the  floor,  58  individual  countries  asked  for  an 
expansion  of  both  membership  categories.  Secondly, 
26 individual Member States explicitly asked for concrete 
outcomes  by  2015.  Thirdly,  23  individual  delegations 
supported 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  basis  of  text-based  negotiations, 
as  a  result  of  the  President’s  initiative.  If  we  were  to 
consider  the  numbers  as  represented  by  their  groups, 
there would be twice as many countries.
commencing 
the 
I therefore urge the President to act on that collective 
call made by such a large number of States from this 
rostrum. He has the full support of the overwhelming 
majority  of  the  Assembly  to  steer  his  own  initiative 
towards  its  logical  conclusion  and  to  commence  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  immediately  on  the 
basis of a text.
Secondly,  even  as  we  embark  on  marking  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  and  on 
crafting a post-2015 development agenda, it is important 
that  we  deliver  on  the  most  important  unfinished 
mandate arising from 2005 World Summit, that is, the 
early reforms of the Security Council. Indeed, while all 
other mandates agreed at the World Summit have been 
fulfilled or continue as works in progress, that mandate 
alone remains a work without any progress as it is still 
stuck  where  it  was  in  2005.  That  is  an  unacceptable 
interpretation  of  the  “early  reforms”  unanimously 
agreed to by all Members of the United Nations eight 
years ago.
Mr. Logar (Slovenia): Slovenia, as a member of the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group, 
aligns itself with the statement delivered earlier by the 
Permanent Representative of Switzerland on behalf of 
the group.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  appreciation  to  the 
Permanent Representative of China for introducing the 
report of the Security Council (A/68/2) to the General 
Assembly on 7 November (see A/68/PV.46), and to the 
United States Mission for preparing this year’s report.
We are fully aware of the highly complex topics and 
relations that the Security Council has tried to address 
and mitigate in the period concerned, and are grateful 
for  the  dedicated  efforts  of  Member  States.  However, 
we regret that, on some occasions, the Council has not 
been able to deliver on time or even at all.
While 
the 
respecting 
the 
principal organs of the United Nations, we believe that 
there is a need for the Council also to regularly address 
responsibilities  of 
4/12 
13-57671
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.56
issues that have potential security implications, such as 
those connected with climate change or human security.
The  work  of  the  Security  Council,  as  the  body 
entrusted  with 
international 
peace  and  security,  should  be  based  on  transparent, 
accountable  and  coherent  procedures,  address  the 
concerns  of  the  entire  international  community  and 
involve all States Members of the United Nations.
the  maintenance  of 
The  number  of  decisions  taken  by  the  Council  is 
increasing. We would very much like to encourage the 
Council to incorporate in each meeting and decision a 
concrete plan of implementation that could be reviewed 
on occasions such as today’s meeting.
We should bear in mind that the decisions taken by 
the Council have an effect on all of us. The privilege 
of being a member of the Council also comes with the 
responsibility to do one’s utmost for the preservation of 
international peace and security. However, all Member 
States nevertheless have a responsibility to support the 
Council  and  to  hold  it  accountable  for  the  consistent 
and effective implementation of its decisions.
We  would  like  to  see  the  more  transparent 
preparation  of  a  comprehensive  report  of  the  work  of 
the Security Council. That report serves as a source of 
information with regard to the work of the Council and 
the  major  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
As some countries pointed out in the debate on Security 
Council  reform  two  weeks  ago  (see  A/68/PV.47),  the 
report does not always fully reflect the process that has 
led to the adoption of a certain resolution or decision. 
The Security Council should therefore enable the entire 
membership  to  acquire  relevant  information  about  its 
activities and to participate meaningfully in its work.
The improvement of some of the Council’s working 
methods, the need for which has already been pointed 
out in previous debates, would also serve as a tool to 
assess the work of the Council. Informal briefings and 
wrap-up meetings at the end of each month should be 
accompanied  by  written  monthly  assessments,  which 
should  form  an  integral  part  of  the  final  report.  We 
would  like  to  encourage  presidencies  to  promptly 
prepare their monthly assessments since, to date, only 
six such assessments have been published this year.
We  also  believe  that  Member  States  should  be 
involved in consultations and the drafting of decisions 
and the report itself in a more transparent manner. We 
believe it important that future reports also reflect the 
views and ideas put forward by States not members of 
the Council in open debates and other public meetings. 
Such  debates,  which  allow  interaction  with  the  entire 
United  Nations  membership,  have  already  become  an 
important  instrument  for  the  increased  transparency 
and coherence of the Council, and their minutes should 
therefore form part of the report.
Let me conclude by saying that Slovenia welcomes 
the debates on the Council’s working methods and its 
reform that have taken place in the past few weeks. We 
will continue to contribute to the work of the Council 
and  its  main  goal  of  maintaining  international  peace 
and security and to participate in the valuable dialogue 
among Member States.
Mr.  Körösi  (Hungary):  I  thank  the  President 
for  convening  this  debate  on  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council (A/68/2).
Hungary,  as  a  member  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group, aligns itself with 
the statement made earlier on the group’s behalf by the 
representative of Switzerland.
In our national statement, I will focus on the issue 
of working methods and examine how interactions with 
the general United Nations membership and its views 
on related issues are reflected in the report.
Turning  to  the  specific  contents  of  the  report,  it 
is  unfortunate  that  neither  the  issue  of  the  working 
methods nor the views of the general membership seem 
to  be  adequately  reflected.  The  narrative  offers  little 
information on the plenary debate; in fact, it mentions 
only  one  of  the  five  debates  held.  Part  VI,  on  the 
subsidiary  bodies,  provides  scant  information  on  the 
otherwise  productive  work  of  the  Informal  Working 
Group  on  Documentation  and  Other  Procedural 
Questions.  We  receive  no  insight  into  the  proposals 
discussed,  their  follow-up  or  the  future  direction  of 
work.  That  may  contribute  to  the  feeling  of  lack  of 
transparency — and I fully agree with what was said by 
my Slovenian colleague a short while ago.
Another major concern lies in the fact that the views 
and  proposals  of  the  general  membership  on  working 
methods receive no acknowledgment in the report or in 
the documents linked in the repeort. They are reflected 
neither in the account of the plenary debate nor in the 
discussion of the Informal Working Group. The notes 
on the five debates do not give justice to the richness of 
those interactions, as they only indicate that “members 
13-57671
5/12
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
When 
taking  a  closer 
in 
look  at 
of the Security Council had an exchange of views”. The 
Council’s  follow-up  on  those  proposals  made  by  the 
general membership seems painfully lacking.
the 
issue  of 
accountability 
the  Council’s  work  for  major 
international  crimes,  we  find  a  similar  inadequacy  in 
the report. The open debates on questions such as the 
protection of civilians and on the relationship between 
the  Council  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
offered the Council an abundance of proposals from the 
broader membership on how to better address the issue 
of accountability. The report reflects none of them.
On  the  Council’s  activities  related  to  the  Syrian 
conflict,  the  narrative  fails  to  make  any  reference  to 
the letter that was sent by 57 Member States in January, 
requesting the Council to refer the Syrian situation to 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  letter  is  only 
listed  under  the  documentation  section  as  one  of  the 
many documents related to the Syrian conflict.
Some  proposals  of  the  five  permanent  members 
do  not  fare  better  either.  There  is  no  reference  to  the 
proposal  of  major  relevance,  made  by  France  already 
in  2012,  that  the  permanent  members  of  the  Council 
should voluntarily refrain from using their veto power 
in  situations  of  mass  atrocities.  The  proposal  also 
received major support from the broader membership.
Hungary believes that any and every proposal that 
brings the Council closer to its ultimate raison d’être, 
namely,  the  fulfilment  of  its  responsibilities,  merits 
serious consideration, and therefore should be included 
in the Council’s report. Those examples point to certain 
shortcomings that can be tackled only through changes 
in the working methods of the Council as well as in the 
structure and content of the report.
We  call  call  on  the  Security  Council  to  provide 
a  better  reflection  of  the  contributions  to  its  work  by 
the broader membership, especially in cases where the 
Council  itself  requested  such  contributions.  Inviting 
Member  States  to  participate  in  open  debates  cannot 
generate  any  progress  or  make  any  real  difference  if 
the Council gives no substantial consideration to their 
views  by  following  up  on  them  transparently  and 
reflecting them in its annual report. We sincerely hope 
that  the  next  year’s  report  will  include  more  of  those 
essential elements.
Mr. Donoghue (Ireland): I welcome the opportunity 
provided  today  to  Member  States  to  comment  on  the 
work of the Security Council during the period covered 
by the annual report (A/68/2). It is valuable to have a 
context such as this in which, leaving aside the separate 
issues  relating  to  the  reform  and  composition  of  the 
Security Council, we can take stock of the work done 
by  the  Council  over  a  given  period  and  offer  some 
general  comments  and  reflections.  My  remarks  will 
touch also on the interaction between the Council and 
the wider membership and ways in which that can be 
further developed and strengthened.
My  delegation  aligns  itself,  at  the  outset,  with 
the  representative  of 
the  statement  delivered  by 
Switzerland on behalf of the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group, which is, as members know, 
a  cross-regional  grouping  of  22  Member  States  that 
was  established  earlier  this  year  to  press  for  greater 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  in  the 
work of the Security Council.
In the annual report we are considering today, there 
are  encouraging  indications  of  growing  transparency. 
For  example,  in  the  period  under  review,  a  very  high 
percentage of the Council’s formal meetings — 174 out 
of 195 — were held in public. That is a welcome trend.
I am encouraged also by the Council’s readiness to 
schedule, at regular intervals, thematic debates that are 
open  to  the  membership  as  a  whole.  That  recognizes 
the  cross-cutting  and  interlinked  nature  of  many  of 
the  challenges  arising  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  It 
recognizes that the maintenance of peace and security 
in  today’s  world  is  a  complex  and  multidimensional 
responsibility and that the Council would benefit from 
dialogue  and  interaction  across  the  Organization  in 
shaping its response to those challenges.
One would wish, however, for greater interactivity 
in the exchanges. I would value revised arrangements 
for the thematic debates, which would be conducive to 
higher-level participation on the part of Council members 
and a better and more direct dialogue between members 
and  non-members  on  the  issues  being  discussed.  It 
should be possible to look at the current arrangements 
and to see how they might be improved — for example, 
through an agreement by all participants that time limits 
for  interventions  would  be  strictly  observed.  With  a 
view  to  developing  interactivity,  I  trust  also  that  the 
Council  President  will  report  to  Council  members  on 
the points and observations made in today’s debate and 
that this will serve as a basis for further improvement 
in our cooperation.
6/12 
13-57671
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.56
The  annual  report  before  us  provides  abundant 
material  on  the  detailed  handling  of  individual  items 
on  the  Council’s  agenda.  That  is  valuable  and  makes 
an important contribution to transparency. In our view, 
however, the value of the material would be enhanced 
by occasional reflections on the effectiveness or impact 
of specific actions taken by the Council. I mean that in 
the most positive sense.
In the report before the Assembly, there are several 
good examples of issues where decisive action by the 
Council produced important breakthroughs. In Mali, in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Somalia, 
the  Council  acted  swiftly  and  to  good  effect.  Yet, 
although widely acknowledged, those achievements are 
not captured clearly in the report.
It should also be possible to give a fuller account 
of  individual  Council  discussions,  highlighting  the 
operational conclusions reached while at the same time 
being a little more open than hitherto about the ebb and 
flow of the debate.
In general, my delegation sees value in introducing 
an  element  of  evaluation  in  relation  to  key  areas  of 
the Council’s work, both in the annual reports and in 
the  monthly  assessments.  It  would  seem  that,  under 
the  existing  rules,  some  discretion  is  available  to  the 
Secretariat in that respect.
Some reflection on overall priority-setting during 
a  given  period,  or  on  issues  such  as  the  balance  in 
the  Council’s  work  between  individual  conflicts  and 
cross-cutting  thematic  work  or  new  trends  in  terms 
of  challenges  to  peace  and  security,  would  also  be  of 
interest.
The work of the Council relating to the anticipation 
and  prevention  of  conflict  during  the  period  under 
review could also be brought out with greater clarity.
We very much welcome the successive notes by the 
President of the Security Council that have been issued 
regarding  measures  to  improve  the  working  methods 
of  the  Council.  For  example,  in  the  note  contained  in 
document S/2012/922, of 12 December 2012, the Council 
proposed interactive informal exchanges of views with 
the wider membership on the draft annual report, and 
the  inclusion  of  more  substantive  information  on  the 
Council’s work and on measures to improve its working 
methods. We very much welcome those proposals and 
hope that they will be acted upon speedily.
The  Informal  Working  Group  on  Documentation 
and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  chaired  by  Portugal 
in 2012 and by Argentina this year, deserves particular 
commendation  for  the  role  it  is  playing.  Further  to 
the  note  by  the  President  contained  in  document 
S/2013/515, of 28 August 2013, we hope that all of the 
Council’s  subsidiary  bodies  will  seek  to  enhance  the 
transparency of their activities and the interactivity of 
their engagement with non-members of the Council.
the  Security  Council’s 
Ireland  also  wishes  to  acknowledge  the  steady 
progress  being  made  by  the  Working  Group  on 
Peacekeeping  Operations,  which  was  chaired  by 
Morocco  last  year  and  by  Pakistan  this  year.  The 
Working Group, which deals with a critically important 
part  of 
responsibilities, 
has  addressed  key  questions  such  as  inter-mission 
cooperation,  the  African  Union  Mission  to  Somalia, 
the safety and security of United Nations peacekeepers 
and  the  use  of  modern  technology  in  peacekeeping. 
We welcome the note by the President of the Council 
contained in document S/2013/630, of 28 October 2013. 
When  implemented  in  full,  it  will  go  a  significant 
way  towards  enhancing  the  quality  of  the  Council’s 
interaction  and  consultation  with  troop  and  police 
contributors.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s  thanks  for  the  opportunity  afforded  to 
comment  on  this  annual  report  from  the  Security 
Council.  We  want  to  assist  in  the  collective  task  of 
ensuring  that  the  Council  lives  up  fully  to  the  vital 
leadership  role  conferred  upon  it.  We  welcome  this 
opportunity  to  explore  how  the  dialogue  between  the 
Council  and  the  wider  membership  can  be  deepened 
and  improved  to  the  benefit  of  the  Organization  as  a 
whole and the peoples it represents.
Mr.  Patriota  (Brazil):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 
once  more  the  Permanent  Representative  of  China, 
Ambassador Liu Jieyi, for introducing the annual report 
of the Security Council (A/68/2) (see A/68/PV.46), and 
the United States delegation for drafting its introduction.
The  annual  report  being  discussed  today  is  an 
attempt  to  provide  a  fairly  comprehensive  account 
of  the  Council’s  activities.  As  Brazil  has  underlined 
on  previous  occasions,  we  understand  that  a  large 
number of countries are very interested in being better 
informed about the Council’s deliberations. It is worth 
recalling that the Council acts on behalf of the entire 
membership, and its decisions, albeit taken in a room 
13-57671
7/12
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
with  only  15  seats,  are  binding  on  all  193  Member 
States.  In  that  sense,  we  believe  that  it  is  crucial  to 
make that body more transparent and more accountable 
to  the  General  Assembly,  and  thereby  to  the  broader 
membership.
As  mentioned  at  last  month’s  open  debate  on  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods  (see  S/PV.7052), 
Brazil understands that the holding of public debates, 
wrap-up  meetings,  consultations  with  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries, 
field  missions  and 
the  outreach  to  country-specific  configurations  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  are  important 
attempts  to  promote  inclusiveness  and  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Council’s  decisions.  We  welcome 
the  intervention  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Switzerland on behalf of the Accountability, Coherence 
and  Transparency  group,  which  included  positive 
suggestions  on  how  to  enhance  transparency  and 
working methods.
Allow  me  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  the  work 
undertaken  by  the  Council  during  the  period  covered 
by the report.
Brazil  takes  note  with  satisfaction  of  the  recent 
developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
We are also pleased to see that progress has been made to 
implement a regional strategy in the Great Lakes region. 
We commend the efforts undertaken by United Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  its  Intervention  Brigade. 
At the same time, we would like to emphasize that the 
recent  successes  in  the  fight  against  armed  groups  is 
a  consequence  not  only  of  a  more  robust  approach  to 
peacekeeping, but mainly of a strong commitment of the 
Great Lakes countries and the international community 
to address the roots of instability in the eastern part of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the region 
through a political process.
to  pursue 
In Haiti, the United Nations Stabilization Mission 
in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH)  continues 
its 
calibrated, gradual and sustainable consolidation plan, 
further  reducing  its  military  footprint  as  the  capacity 
of the Haitian National Police increases. On the other 
hand,  the  lack  of  progress  on  the  political  front,  with 
unjustifiable delays in the holding of pending senatorial 
and local elections, remains a matter of concern. It is 
crucial that programmes of institutional consolidation 
and development be allowed to take off for the stability 
that MINUSTAH helped create to be sustainable.
to  mobilize 
We have seen important steps and initiatives from 
the  Haitian  Government  to  revitalize  the  country’s 
economy  and  provide  support  for  the  poor.  Such 
willingness 
investment  and  promote 
reconstruction, with a focus on those in need, has yet to 
find its counterpart on the political track. We commend 
MINUSTAH  for  its  intensive  work  on  facilitating  the 
political process through the good offices of the Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General, as well as for 
its sustained support on the humanitarian and security 
front. Brazil will remain engaged in supporting Haiti’s 
development and democratic consolidation.
Let me refer briefly to the situation in Guinea-Bissau, 
where  the  active  engagement  of  the  Security  Council 
also remains crucial. The Council’s press statement of 
11  September  (SC/11118)  recognized  some  important 
developments, such as the formation of a more inclusive 
transitional  Government,  while  reiterating  its  call  for 
the  holding  of  free  and  credible  elections  as  soon  as 
possible, and for inclusive dialogue towards consensus 
on key reforms to be undertaken in the coming years. 
A new date for elections has been set; donors, specially 
those from the region, have been forthcoming; and key 
preparations  for  elections,  such  as  voter  registration, 
are  to  begin  soon.  Yet  important  challenges  remain, 
and  strong  international  commitment  will  be  needed 
throughout the process. The Council will again have an 
opportunity to review some of the developments next 
week, when it will hear from the Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  Ramos-Horta.  As  President 
of  the  Guinea  Bissau  country-specific  configuration 
of the Peacebuilding Commission, I look forward to a 
productive discussion and stand ready to engage with 
the  Council  and  with  configuration  members  on  a 
comprehensive assessment of the role of the PBC and 
its future activities.
The  tragic  situation  in  Syria  and  the  Council’s 
inability  to  devise  a  timely  strategy  on  the  basis  of 
the Geneva communiqué of 12 June 2012 (S/2012/522, 
annex) should give us pause for reflection. That state of 
affairs is seen by many as an illustration of the Council’s 
current  dysfunctionality.  The  Council’s  delay  of 
15 months to endorse the communiqué, finally reached 
with the adoption of Security Council resolution 2118 
(2013)  in  October,  was  particularly  detrimental.  Had 
that endorsement been achieved earlier and the political 
process envisaged therein been carried out, many lives 
could have been saved and the death toll in the conflict 
could have been significantly less appalling.
8/12 
13-57671
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.56
Now  that  progress  has  been  achieved  on  the 
chemical-weapons  front,  we  should  remain  more 
directly  aware  that  the  vast  majority  of  the  120,000 
casualties  were  caused  by  conventional  weapons.  In 
that regard, the proliferation of conventional weapons 
in Syria remains a source of insecurity and instability 
that will continue to threaten the region even in post-
conflict  scenarios.  How  many  more  months  will  the 
Council need to adopt a common position against the 
increasing militarization of the crisis? The Independent 
International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  established  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  has  eloquently  pointed  out  that  the  flow  of 
arms  increases  the  chances  that  they  will  be  used  to 
commit serious violations of human rights.
Despite  the  fact  that  in  the  period  covered  by 
the  report  the  Council  held  a  significant  number  of 
meetings on the Middle East, including the question of 
Palestine, its deliberations have had little influence on 
the ground. The Council, as the body entrusted with the 
maintenance of international peace and security, should 
do  more  to  resolve  the  issue.  Its  silence  as  unilateral 
actions  threaten  to  jeopardize  the  peace  negotiations 
and make the two-State solution more elusive is deeply 
troubling.  Brazil  expects  that  the  Council  will  play 
a  leading  role  on  the  issue,  including  by  avoiding 
outsourcing the responsibility for the resolution of the 
question  without  even  insisting  on  regular  briefings 
on the matter. Regular briefings by the Quartet to the 
Council would be a good start.
Over  the  past  years,  the  Security  Council  has 
adopted several resolutions to curb the proliferation of 
weapons of mass destruction, their means of delivery, 
as well as parts, components and related material and 
technology. Sanctions regimes were established to deal 
with  breaches,  by  specific  countries,  of  obligations 
on  those  matters.  The  Council  also  took  a  decisive 
step  through  Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013), 
which  we  praise,  to  ensure  the  elimination  of  the 
Syrian  programme  of  chemical  arms.  However,  an 
imbalance  persists  between  the  attention  the  Council 
dedicates  to  non-proliferation  vis-à-vis  its  dedication 
to  disarmament,  especially  with  regard  to  nuclear 
weapons.
We  acknowledge  the  importance  of  the  measures 
taken  by  the  Council  to  avoid  the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  would  expect  the 
Security  Council,  in  parallel,  to  deal  more  decisively 
with  the  threat  posed  by  the  very  existence  of  such 
weapons  to  international  peace  and  security,  thus 
recognizing that non-proliferation and disarmament are 
mutually reinforcing.
The  compliance  deficit  is  particularly  serious  in 
the field of nuclear disarmament. As long as a limited 
group of countries possess nuclear weapons and resist 
implementing their commitments in that regard, there 
is a greater risk that other States and non-State actors 
may try to acquire or develop such weapons. Nuclear 
disarmament  is  an  effective  measure  against  nuclear 
proliferation.
It is our understanding that the Council could play 
an important role in the promotion of our shared goal of 
a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of 
mass destruction.
As a final note, Brazil would like to highlight the 
fact that a considerable number, some 90 delegations, 
representing the views of more than two thirds of the 
membership, took the floor during the debate held on 
7  and  8  November  on  Security  Council  reform,  the 
vast majority of which clearly called for and expansion 
of  the  Council  in  both  categories.  That  should  be 
understood  as  a  clear  and  compelling  message  from 
the  wider  membership  on  the  need  for  an  urgent  and 
comprehensive  reform  of  that  body  —  a  reform  that 
would bring the Council in line with today’s geopolitical 
realities  and  make  it  truly  capable  of  addressing  the 
challenges of the twenty-first century.
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  The  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2)  under  discussion  today 
covers a period during which my country was a member 
of the Council. Looking back, I will briefly touch upon 
three issues.
The  first  is  the  long  deadlock  in  the  Council 
over Syria. Not only did the three double vetoes have 
a  terrible  consequence  for  the  Syrian  people;  more 
broadly,  the  failure  by  the  Council  to  adequately 
respond  to  the  bloodshed  also  raises  the  question  of 
whether the Security Council as we see it today still able 
to effectively address current and future challenges.
The  Syria  deadlock  has  also  served  to  shine  a 
spotlight on the role of the veto. In that context, we very 
much appreciate the proposal made by France by which 
permanent members would refrain from using the veto 
in situations of atrocity crimes. That proposal deserves 
further discussion.
13-57671
9/12
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
Secondly,  the  annual  report  also  shows  that  the 
issues  on  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  have 
become increasingly complex, ranging from traditional 
issues  such  as  peacekeeping,  to  cases  of  conflict 
prevention  and  peacebuilding.  The  Council  also 
deserves credit for its actions in that regard, including 
its close engagement in the transition process in Yemen.
The Council has also come to address cross-cutting 
issues  such  as  children  in  armed  conflict,  and  new 
threats such as that of climate change. We hope that the 
Council will continue on that track in order to remain 
relevant and put to rest the criticism of encroachment, 
which we believe is unwarranted.
Lastly,  I  shall  say  a  few  words  on  the  Council 
members’  day-to-day  work  and  the  decision-making 
processes. It is fair to say that the Council has come a 
long way in improving its working methods. We tried 
to  contribute  our  share.  But  more  needs  to  be  done. 
Two  issues  stand  out  in  my  view.  The  first  is  that  of 
penholdership for Security Council resolutions, which 
is  de  facto  monopolized  by  the  permanent  members. 
But  all  members  of  the  Council  are  fully  eligible  to 
fulfil that function, and we believe that non-permanent 
members  should  also  be  given  a  fair  chance  to 
demonstrate their valuable contributions to the work of 
the Council. Similarly, greater transparency is needed 
when it comes to the distribution of the chairmanships 
of  Council  subsidiary  organs  —  a  process  again 
dominated  by  the  permanent  five.  Both  issues  were 
among  those  addressed  to  some  extent  in  the  various 
presidential notes adopted in recent years. We urge the 
permanent members to ensure that their commitments 
made in those notes are also translated into practice.
Mr.  Sareer  (Maldives):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2)  and 
the  ever-increasing  attempts  at  transparency  in  its 
preparation  and  drafting.  The  Maldives  furthermore 
welcomes this debate on agenda item 29, in a manner 
that is independent of the larger question of the Security 
Council’s reform, composition and expansion.
While the Maldives hopes that tomorrow’s Security 
Council  will  have  an  expanded  membership  and  be 
more  relevant  and  responsive  to  global  needs,  our 
focus  today  is  on  the  present-day  Security  Council. 
The  authority  of  the  members  of  today’s  Council  is 
derived from the Charter of the United Nations and the 
general  membership.  Its  resolutions  are  binding  upon 
all Member States and the Council is accountable to us, 
creating a compact between members and non-members 
of  the  Council.  It  is  our  hope  that  a  longstanding 
tradition  of  isolation  will  give  way  to  accountability, 
that  future  work  will  be  coherent  and  integrated  and 
that a culture of secrecy will give way to transparency.
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the  Maldives  associates 
itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Switzerland  in  his  capacity  as 
coordinator  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency group.
A  business-as-usual  approach  is  no  longer  viable 
in 
today’s  world,  and  while  comprehensive  and 
substantial change will take time, today’s Council has 
a  responsibility  to  be  more  responsive  to  the  United 
Nations general membership.
The  immediate  responsibility  to  act  lies  with 
current  and  future  members  of  the  Council.  Those 
nations must take measures to ensure transparency in 
their  work  and  facilitate  greater  understanding.  The 
Maldives  commends  the  practice  of  monthly  wrap-
up  meetings  conducted  by  the  Council  President.  We 
encourage analytical and substantive monthly briefings 
that  ensure  the  evolution  of  the  Council’s  work  and 
promotes progress across the tenures of its presidency.
As with the rotation of the presidency, the work of 
the Council is not restricted to permanent members, but 
rather to all members of the Council. The allocation of 
work must be inclusive and conducted in such a way as 
to draw upon the expertise of all Council members, lest 
the Council’s legitimacy be undermined further.
The principal purpose of the United Nations is the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  across  the  globe. 
The  centrality  of  that  principle  lies  with  the  Security 
Council.  Its  legitimacy,  and  by  extension  that  of  the 
Organization,  can  be  maintained  only  through  the 
elimination  of  mass  atrocity  crimes.  The  Maldives 
calls  again  today  for  the  elective  renunciation  of  a 
member’s  right  of  veto  in  the  case  of  mass  atrocities. 
It is the solemn duty of every Member State to protect 
those  within  its  sovereign  territory.  Should  any  of  us 
fail in that duty, it is the burden of the United Nations 
to  safeguard  its  Charter  and  fulfil  the  purpose  of  the 
Organization.
It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  general  membership 
to  hold  Council  members  to  account,  and  that  can  be 
done  only  by  casting  aside  the  veil  of  ignorance  that 
surrounds  the  work  of  the  Council.  Its  methodologies 
10/12 
13-57671
21/10/2013 
A/68/PV.56
should  facilitate  greater  understanding,  and  therefore 
greater  accountability.  The  collective  will  of  the 
membership should stimulate clarity.
It  is  the  Maldives’  hope  that,  even  without 
comprehensive  reform  for  tomorrow,  today’s  Council 
can  rise  to  the  challenges  of  our  time,  within  the 
existing frameworks.
Mr.  Mamabolo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
wishes to thank you, Madam President, for convening 
this  important  meeting  to  reflect  on  the  Security 
Council.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  China  for  introducing  the  annual 
report  (A/68/2)  covering  the  period  from  1  August 
2012 to 31 July 2013. In the same vein, we also thank 
the delegation of the United States, under the leadership 
of  Ambassador  Samantha  Power,  for  preparing  this 
report  on  behalf  of  the  Security  Council.  The  report 
before  us  presents  a  factual  account  of  the  work  of 
the Council, and my delegation would like to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  made  by  the  Council 
in  undertaking  its  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
My delegation has seen some progress in the Security 
Council in terms of increasing its focus on improving 
its working methods. It is worth noting that briefings 
to  the  general  membership  of  the  United  Nations  by 
incoming  and  outgoing  Presidents  of  the  Council  are 
becoming  standard  practice.  Those  briefings  have 
kept  non-Council  members  abreast  of  developments 
in the Security Council and provided insight into how 
the  Council  is  approaching  various  agenda  items.  We 
therefore encourage other Council members who have 
been  reluctant  to  provide  such  briefings  at  the  end  of 
the month to make an effort.
We  are  particularly  pleased  that  the  Security 
Council  has  lately  been  placing  strategic  focus  on 
the  relationship  between 
itself  and  regional  and 
subregional organizations. We are encouraged that the 
annual  consultative  meetings  between  the  Security 
Council  and  the  African  Union  (AU)  Peace  and 
Security  Council  have  become  more  structured  and 
effective.  My  delegation  is  further  encouraged  by  the 
ongoing partnership and cooperation between the AU 
and  the  United  Nations,  as  witnessed  in  the  African 
Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur, 
the  former  African-led  International  Support  Mission 
in  Mali,  the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  and 
the  Force  Intervention  Brigade  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  These  practical  examples  are, 
of course, highly commendable efforts.
While my delegation appreciates those efforts, the 
current  report  is  more  chronological  and  descriptive 
and less analytical. An analytical report would be more 
beneficial,  as  it  would  provide  better  insight  into  the 
challenges that the Council is faced with in deliberating 
on various situations on its agenda, as reflected in its 
ability to resolve certain conflicts.
The elected members of the Council are confronted 
by numerous constraints resulting from the dominance 
of  a  particular  select  group.  We  remain  concerned 
that  the  resolutions  or  decisions  of  the  Council  are 
often consulted upon by a particular select group and 
presented as final to elected members. While we support 
broad consultations by the Council, its decisions should 
be open to debate among all its members.
The situation of Palestine and the Western Sahara 
are  but  two  clear  examples  of  how  narrow  national 
interests can constrain the Council in the maintenance 
of international peace and security. In the case of the 
Western  Sahara,  we  have  witnessed  how,  through 
selective small groups, some that are not even members 
of the Council have greater influence over the text of 
resolutions  than  Council  members  themselves.  The 
subsequent weakening of the text of the relevant annual 
resolution  has  resulted  in  the  Security  Council  not 
being able to implement its own decisions.
In  conclusion,  discussing  the  current  report  of 
the  Security  Council  must  not  divert  attention  away 
from the genuine reform of the Security Council. The 
negotiations  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council  have 
gone  on  too  long,  and  their  importance  cannot  be 
overemphasized.
Mr.  Djokpe 
in  French): 
Ambassador  Jean-Francis  Régis  Zinsou  has  asked  me 
to make this statement on his behalf.
(Benin) 
(spoke 
I would like to join those who have spoken before 
me in sincerely thanking the President of the General 
Assembly  for  having  worked  to  convene  this  plenary 
meeting on the Security Council report to the General 
Assembly  (A/68/2)  and  on  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of Security Council reform, 
in  particular  the  question  of  equitable  representation 
within that body and the increase in the number of its 
13-57671
11/12
A/68/PV.56 
21/10/2013
members in both categories. I would like to congratulate 
the  facilitator,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, for the impressive work 
he  has  carried  out  despite  the  many  obstacles  he  has 
faced.  I  welcome  the  well-deserved  renewal  of  his 
mandate and take this opportunity to assure him of my 
delegation’s full cooperation.
Benin aligns itself with the statements made by the 
representatives of Saint Kitts and Nevis on behalf of the 
L.69 group and of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group. I am pleased to make the following comments in 
my national capacity.
My  delegation  has  examined  with  great  interest 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters, and we welcome its contents. I would like to 
congratulate in particular the President of the Security 
Council for November, Ambassador Liu Jieyi of China, 
for his outstanding introduction of the report.
We  can  never  emphasize  enough  the  fact  that  the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  that  of 
the  Security  Council,  is  an  absolute  necessity  in  the 
light  of  the  new  realities  of  our  planet’s  geopolitical 
configurations.  As  far  as  Africa  in  particular  is 
concerned, this reform is necessary on several counts, 
given  the  many  injustices  that  the  continent  has 
experienced and clearly continues to experience. Such 
reform  will  be  justice  served  for  the  entire  continent, 
which has for so long been plundered and that wishes to 
take an active part in deliberations on the major issues 
and  problems  of  the  day,  which,  to  a  large  extent,  of 
course,  concern  it.  What  is  at  stake  here  is  no  more 
and no less than a correction of the historical injustice 
done  to  Africa,  which  is  the  only  continent  that  is 
not  represented  in  the  Council’s  permanent  member 
category.
The expansion of the Council to enable, inter alia, 
the allocation of two permanent seats and at least two 
non-permanent  seats  to  Africa  would  be  far  from  a 
mistake; indeed, it is the minimum required. Such an 
expansion will allow the effectiveness of the Council’s 
work in Africa to be enhanced. As highlighted by the 
President of the Council during his introduction of the 
Security  Council  report  for  the  period  from  August 
2012 and July 2013 (see A/68/PV.46), over 60 per cent 
of  the  Council’s  agenda  concerns  Africa.  Half  of  the 
peacekeeping  operations  of  the  United  Nations  are 
currently deployed on the continent.
Benin  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  adherence  to  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  which 
seek at least two permanent seats on the Council — with 
all the attendant prerogatives and privileges, including 
the right of veto, if that right continues to exist — and 
two non-permanent seats.
My delegation believes that after more than 20 years, 
the  time  has  come  to  move  forward  with  a  concrete 
text in order to put an end to the continuing dead-end 
dialogue. It is time to begin creating a genuine text for 
negotiations that would enable us to better evaluate the 
various options in order to agree on how to move ahead. 
In that regard, my delegation welcomes the President’s 
initiative in setting up an advisory group to help him to 
determine  options  for  advancing  the  issue.  We  would 
like to see the group up and running as soon as possible 
in  order  to  improve  the  compilation  of  the  various 
proposals and produce a database conducive to leaving 
behind  vague  propositions  and  making  progress.  In 
my  delegation’s  view,  that  structure  would  allow  the 
intergovernmental negotiation process, in a framework 
of multilateral negotiations, to achieve the progress we 
all expect.
Benin remains solidly behind all initiatives aimed 
at  accelerating  action  to  reach  a  comprehensive, 
coherent reform of the Council, which can only help to 
improve global governance, as the 2005 World Summit 
demanded.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 29.
The meeting rose at 11 a.m.
12/12 
13-57671
