United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
11th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.11
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
High-level Meeting on Nuclear Disarmament
Agenda item 99
General and complete disarmament

(aa) Nuclear disarmament
The  President:  I  declare  open  the  High-level 
Meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament. This meeting is held in accordance with 
Assembly resolution 67/39 of 3 December 2012.
Statement by the President
The  President:  I  warmly  welcome  everyone  to 
this High-level Meeting on Nuclear Disarmament. This 
Meeting serves to strengthen efforts for the elimination 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear 
weapons,  and  to  identify  ways  to  eliminate  nuclear 
dangers.  I  wish  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  all 
Member States and our Secretariat, which have taken 
part in bringing this historic event to fruition 67 years 
after the first General Assembly resolution (resolution 
1 (I)) was adopted on today’s topic.
The journey to this point has been challenging and 
fraught with disappointment, and now it is incumbent 
upon us to ensure that we reach our desired destination. 
It was on 10 January 1946 that the General Assembly 
gathered for its inaugural meeting in London. At that 
time,  the  nascent  Assembly  adopted  its  very  first 
resolution on a matter that was, and still is, paramount 
to human civilization. The resolution called for specific 
proposals “for the elimination from national armaments 
of  atomic  weapons  and  of  all  other  major  weapons 
adaptable to mass destruction” (resolution 1 (I), para. 
5(c)).
In 1946, with the world recently traumatized by the 
horrors of atomic weapons, there was no greater threat 
imaginable to international peace and security. Let us 
fast forward to today, 67 years later. We have assembled 
here for the very first time in a high-level meeting on 
this  critical  subject.  We  do  so  against  a  backdrop  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the  technology  to 
produce  them  having  become  commonplace  and  the 
danger of proliferation very real. We should make no 
mistake about it — this is an historic meeting that will 
have lasting implications for our present well-being and 
our shared future.
As  we  go  about  our  day-to-day  lives,  which  for 
many are fraught with deep worries about feeding their 
families  and  finding  clean  water  and  safe  shelter,  we 
are not confronted by a constant worry about the threat 
of  nuclear  weapons.  Yet  all  the  while  in  our  current 
world,  the  spectre  of  nuclear  weapons —  and,  let  me 
add,  all  weapons  —  still  haunts  us  and  is  the  reason 
why we gather today.
In December, when the General Assembly adopted 
resolution 67/39 to convene this Meeting, it called for a 
safer world for all and for achieving peace and security in 
a world without nuclear weapons. The resolution recalls 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  —  our 
collective aspiration to live in a world free of want and 
fear — and it reiterates the commitment to keeping all 
options open for eliminating nuclear weapons, including 
a possible international conference to that end.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48650 (E)
*1348650*
A/68/PV.11 
26/09/2013
The  Assembly  has  in  fact  consistently  stated  its 
commitment to nuclear disarmament. It is an aspiration 
that  has  been  echoed 
in  numerous  resolutions, 
international  treaties  and  initiatives  in  the  decades 
following  the  Hiroshima  attack.  By  gathering  at  the 
highest  levels,  we  stand  committed  to  a  peaceful 
world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  Yet  the  concrete  and 
meaningful  progress 
that  should  accompany  our 
aspiration has largely been missing.
Many attempts to rid the world of the most powerful 
and  destructive  weapons  ever  built  have  failed.  Some 
of  our  multilateral  disarmament  forums,  particularly 
the  Conference  on  Disarmament,  have  not  advanced 
their agendas in the way we would have hoped. Further, 
although  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
was  adopted  almost  20  years  ago  by  the  Assembly,  it 
has still not entered into force.
Throughout 
there  are  many  committed 
recent  decades,  we  have  been 
continually stymied by differing views and approaches. 
However, 
individuals 
and  organizations  actively  working  on  the  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation agendas. Our very 
own  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  has  kept 
nuclear  disarmament  as  a  priority,  putting  forth  his 
five-point  nuclear  disarmament  proposal  in  October 
2010.  We  have  seen  valuable  contributions  from, 
among  others,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Taking  Forward  Multilateral  Nuclear  Disarmament 
Negotiations,  which  met  in  Geneva,  and  from  a 
consortium of United Nations Members that is focused 
on  the  catastrophic  humanitarian  consequences  of 
nuclear-weapon use.
this  agenda 
Civil  society  has  also  been  active  and  engaged 
in  pushing 
forward.  Seventy-seven 
non-governmental  organizations  with  more  than  180 
representatives  have  registered  for  today’s  High-level 
Meeting. Each of these contributions has an important 
role to play, and we rely on this continued commitment 
to remind the world why we need to be more resolute on 
the path to zero weapons.
We are now in the second week of the sixty-eighth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  for  which  I  have 
selected the theme “The post-2015 development agenda: 
setting the stage”. At first glance, perhaps there is no 
direct link between today’s Meeting, this theme and the 
other  high-level  meetings  of  the  week.  But  a  broader 
examination reveals something we all know to be true. 
As we put time, resources and energy into maintaining 
and expanding this ever-increasing weaponry complex, 
we divert resources from education, health care, poverty 
reduction and the overall goal of moving towards more 
sustainable development.
Is it not a sad irony that as we endeavour to improve 
the  lives  of  people  throughout  the  world,  we  devote 
significant  attention  and  investment  to  vehicles  that 
would destroy them? Therefore, as called for previously 
by this Assembly in resolution 67/40, I urge members 
to  devote  part  of  the  resources  made  available  by  the 
implementation  of  disarmament  and  arms  limitation 
agreements to economic and social development.
On 21 September 1998, a man we all admire for his 
courage and his convictions stood in this very assembly 
of nations at its fifty-third session and said,
and  generally 
“We  must  face  the  fact  that  after  countless 
initiatives  and  resolutions,  we  still  do  not  have 
concrete 
accepted  proposals 
supported  by  a  clear  commitment  by  the  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  the  speedy,  final  and  total 
elimination of nuclear weapons and nuclear-weapon 
capabilities.” (A/53/PV.7, p. 14)
In  his  speech,  he  made  the  link  between  nuclear 
disarmament  and  the  need  to  eliminate  poverty  and 
ensure  human  well-being  for  all.  He  then  posed  the 
following question
“to 
those  who  have  elaborated  sophisticated 
arguments  to  justify  their  refusal  to  eliminate 
these  terrible  and  terrifying  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  —  why  do  they  need  them  anyway?” 
(ibid.)
That  man’s  name  is  Nelson  Mandela,  and  today  I 
believe  we  owe  it  to  ourselves  and  the  citizens  of  the 
world  to  provide  an  honourable  and  fitting  answer  to 
his question, because he is a man who, in the view of 
many,  deserves  our  answer.  Sixty-seven  years  have 
gone by and it is now time for us to come together and 
resolve this issue.
Today’s  historic  High-level  Meeting  provides  an 
opportunity  to  honour  the  vision  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration and to renew our commitment to a world 
free of fear. A world with catastrophic weapons is not 
safe  and  does  not  help  to  achieve  peace  and  security 
for all. As President of the General Assembly, I stand 
ready  to  provide  any  support  possible  to  strengthen 
and further the disarmament agenda, which is already 
a  high  priority  for  the  Assembly.  Building  on  today’s 
2/11 
13-48650
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.11
Meeting  and  the  work  many  members  are  already 
doing,  we  can  make  significant  progress  to  advance 
the agenda before us and to create a world that honours 
what we truly value — security, peace, prosperity and 
human well-being.
materials,  and  enhanced  physical  security.  The 
Review  Conferences  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) have 
yielded  disarmament  commitments  that  the  parties 
expect to be fulfilled.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The Secretary-General (spoke in French): I begin 
by thanking you, Sir, for having arranged this event in 
collaboration with Member States and with the support 
of  civil  society.  Today  and  together,  we  are  making 
history.  This  is  the  first-ever  High-level  Meeting  on 
Nuclear  Disarmament  held  by  the  General  Assembly. 
That is all the more remarkable since this body has a 
long record of advocacy in this field.
In its very first resolution (resolution 1 (I)), adopted 
in  1946,  the  General  Assembly  identified  nuclear 
disarmament  as  a  leading  goal  of  the  Organization. 
Decades  later,  the  objective  of  general  and  complete 
disarmament — combining the elimination of weapons 
of mass destruction and the regulation of conventional 
arms  —  remains  a  top  priority.  The  efforts  this  year 
of the Open-ended Working Group on Taking Forward 
Multilateral  Nuclear  Disarmament  Negotiations  is 
further evidence of that commitment.
(spoke in English)
Some  might  complain  that  nuclear  disarmament 
is  little  more  than  a  dream,  but  that  ignores  the  very 
tangible benefits that disarmament would have for all 
humankind. Its success would strengthen international 
peace  and  security.  It  would  free  up  vast  and  much-
needed resources for social and economic development. 
It  would  advance  the  rule  of  law.  It  would  spare  the 
environment  and  help  to  keep  nuclear  materials  from 
terrorist  or  extremist  groups.  And  it  would  remove  a 
layer of fear that clouds all human existence.
Let us also remember that failure carries a heavy 
price.  I  was  profoundly  moved  to  be  the  first  United 
Nations Secretary-General to attend the Peace Memorial 
Ceremony in Hiroshima. I also visited Nagasaki. Sadly, 
we know the terrible humanitarian consequences of the 
use of even one weapon. As long as such a policy exists, 
so too will the risks of use and proliferation. 
Some progress has been made. Declared stockpiles 
have  been  falling  for  decades.  Some  nuclear-weapon 
States  have  closed 
test  sites,  eliminated  certain 
nuclear  weapons,  ceased  to  produce  nuclear-weapon 
Yet  much  remains  to  be  done.  The  transparency 
of nuclear-weapon stocks, delivery systems and fissile 
material remains weak and uneven. The nuclear-weapon 
States  have  a  special  responsibility  to  intensify  their 
efforts. Let us remember that nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation  are  mutually  reinforcing.  Today  I 
once again call upon the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea to demonstrate its commitment to verifiable 
denuclearization.  I  urge  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
to  fulfil  its  pledge  to  enhance  the  transparency  of  its 
nuclear programme. I urge those countries outside the 
NPT regime to accede to it without delay and without 
conditions.
If the global disarmament process is to be credible 
and sustainable, universality should be achieved for all 
key instruments, including the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty.  It  is  also  time  for  new  binding  legal 
commitments. That should begin with revitalizing the 
disarmament  machinery,  particularly  the  Conference 
on  Disarmament.  The  Conference  should  take  up  the 
fissile material cut-off treaty as a top priority.
States  without  nuclear  weapons  have  much  to 
contribute, as seen in the expanded cooperation among 
members  of  regional  nuclear-weapon-free  zones.  A 
Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other 
weapons of mass destruction is needed now more than 
ever. I will continue to promote its establishment.
Finally, I wish to thank members of civil society for 
all they have done to promote disarmament efforts and 
advance disarmament and non-proliferation education. 
Next  month,  it  will  be  five  years  since  I  launched 
my  five-point  proposal  on  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.  Many  countries  have  shown  strong 
support.  Civil  society  has  also  embraced  it  in  a  very 
encouraging way. I will continue to explore all avenues 
to  advance  these  efforts  and  look  forward  to  the 
Assembly’s ongoing support. We simply must do more 
to meet the disarmament challenge.
This agenda cannot languish. It must advance for 
our  common  humanity.  It  is  now  up  to  the  Member 
States to add to the historical legacy of this gathering 
by  taking  meaningful,  practical  steps  to  achieve  our 
great disarmament goal. In this noble pursuit, Members 
13-48650
3/11
A/68/PV.11 
26/09/2013
have my profound admiration and full support. I thank 
them for their commitment and engagement.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani, 
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who will make 
a statement on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
President  Rouhani  (spoke  in  Farsi;  English  text 
provided by the delegation): It is a special privilege to 
address  this  historic  gathering.  The  participation  of 
many world leaders in this first-ever High-level Meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  Nuclear  Disarmament  is 
indeed  a  clear  manifestation  of  the  wide  support  for 
this  important  subject.  On  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM) that initiated this Meeting, I thank 
the General Assembly for its support.
I am also very grateful to you, Mr. President, for 
your efforts and those of your predecessor in organizing 
this Meeting. I also thank the Secretary-General for his 
remarks.
A  peaceful  and  secure  world  remains  a  shared 
ideal for us all. The horrors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki 
deepened  our  resolve  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
such  unspeakable  death  and  destruction.  To  that  end, 
the very first resolution of the Assembly (resolution 1 
(I))  rightfully  called  for  ridding  the  world  of  nuclear 
weapons.  We  now  have  an  architecture  of  treaties, 
norms  and  forums  that  aims  to  achieve  this  agreed 
goal. Yet thousands of these weapons continue to pose 
the  greatest  threat  to  peace.  Steps  for  de-targeting, 
de-alerting or reducing the number of nuclear weapons 
are not a substitute for their total elimination. Any use 
of nuclear weapons is a violation of the United Nations 
Charter  and  a  crime  against  humanity.  Doctrines 
justifying  such  use  are  unacceptable.  Likewise,  the 
practice  of  threatening  non-nuclear-weapon  States 
with  nuclear  weapons  should  end.  The  modernization 
of these weapons also undercuts efforts for their total 
abolition. These should therefore be stopped.
I  wish  to  recognize  the  important  contribution  of 
some non-nuclear-weapon States to nuclear disarmament 
by  voluntarily  renouncing  or  dismantling  nuclear 
weapons.  I  also  recognize  the  valuable  contribution 
of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  to  nuclear  disarmament 
and  international  peace  and  security.  I  commend  the 
seminal role of non-nuclear-weapon States, particularly 
the NAM States, which make up the bulk of these zones.
The Non-Aligned Movement calls upon all nuclear-
weapon States to ratify related protocols to all treaties 
establishing  such  zones,  withdraw  any  reservations 
or  interpretative  declarations  incompatible  with  their 
object  and  purpose,  and  respect  the  denuclearization 
status  of  these  zones.  NAM  urges  the  early  signing 
and  ratification  by  the  nuclear-weapon  States  of  the 
Protocol to the Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free  Zone  and  its  related  documents  without 
reservations.
regrettably 
Almost  four  decades  of  international  efforts  to 
establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle 
East  have 
failed.  Urgent  practical 
steps  towards  the  establishment  of  such  a  zone  are 
necessary.  Israel,  the  only  non-party  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in 
that  region,  should  join  without  further  delay.  At  the 
same  time,  all  nuclear  activities  in  the  region  should 
be subject to the International Atomic Energy Agency 
comprehensive safeguards.
The  international  community  must  redouble  its 
efforts  in  support  of  the  establishment  of  this  zone, 
which  would  contribute  to  the  objective  of  nuclear 
disarmament.  I  reaffirm  that  the  NAM  States  parties 
to  the  NPT  urge  the  convening  of  the  conference  on 
the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear 
weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
without  further  delay,  with  the  participation  of  all 
countries in the region, to avoid unwanted consequences.
long  for  nuclear 
disarmament.  The  indefinite  possession  of  nuclear 
weapons  cannot  be  tolerated  nor  can  their  complete 
elimination  be 
further  delayed.  Nuclear-weapon 
States  have  the  primary  responsibility  for  nuclear 
disarmament. I strongly urge them to comply with this 
long overdue legal obligation.
The  world  has  waited 
too 
The fulfilment of nuclear disarmament obligations 
must  not  be  delayed  any  further  or  held  hostage 
to  progress  on  non-proliferation  or  the  perceived 
notions  of  strategic  stability.  Nuclear  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  are  mutually  reinforcing.  They 
should be pursued simultaneously, not one at the cost 
of  the  other.  Non-proliferation  derives  its  legitimacy 
from  the  larger  objective  of  nuclear  disarmament. 
It  should  be  implemented  in  a  comprehensive  and 
non-discriminatory manner.
As long as nuclear weapons exist, the risk of their 
use,  threat  of  use  and  proliferation  persist.  The  only 
absolute  guarantee  is  their  total  elimination.  Pending 
that  day,  nuclear-weapon  States  should  refrain  from 
4/11 
13-48650
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.11
any  threat  or  use  of  nuclear  weapons  against  any 
non-nuclear-weapon  State  in  any  circumstances.  The 
current  declarations  on  negative  security  assurances 
are inadequate. They must be codified into a universal 
legal instrument.
Nuclear disarmament remains our highest priority. 
In  order  to  advance  the  nuclear  disarmament  agenda, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  proposes  therefore  the 
following  road  map.  First,  negotiations  should  begin 
as soon as possible in the Conference on Disarmament 
on  a  comprehensive  convention  on  nuclear  weapons 
for  the  prohibition  of  their  possession,  development, 
production,  acquisition,  testing,  stockpiling,  transfer, 
use or threat of use, and for their destruction.
Secondly,  the  date  of  26  September  should  be 
designated as an international day to renew our resolve 
to completely eliminate nuclear weapons. We invite all 
Governments and civil society, academia, and media to 
join hands in making this vision a reality.
Thirdly, 
in  five  years  convene  a  high-level 
international  conference  on  nuclear  disarmament  to 
review  progress  in  this  regard.  The  Movement  will 
present  a  draft  resolution  to  this  Assembly  regarding 
this  road  map.  I  trust  that  it  will  enjoy  members’ 
support.
No  nation  should  possess  nuclear  weapons,  since 
there are no right hands for these wrong weapons, as the 
Secretary-General has rightly put it. NAM is determined 
to make every effort to realize the vision of a nuclear-
weapon-free  world  without  further  delay.  Instead  of 
nuclear  weapons  let  us  invest  in  development  and  in 
eradicating  poverty,  ignorance  and  diseases.  Let  us 
bestow upon future generations a nuclear-weapon-free 
world. That is their right and our responsibility. Let us 
prove that we are the United Nations, nations united for 
peace.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by His Excellency Mr. Heinz Fischer, Federal 
President of the Republic of Austria.
President  Fischer:  On  25  September  1961, 
President Kennedy delivered a landmark address before 
this  very  Assembly.  He  invoked  the  vivid  notion  of  a 
nuclear sword of Damocles 
“hanging  by  the  slenderest  of  threads,  capable 
of  being  cut  at  any  moment  by  accident  or 
miscalculation  or  by  madness”  (A/PV.1013,  para. 
50).
Fifty-two  years  after  Kennedy’s  speech,  nuclear 
weapons still pose an existential threat to humankind. 
Our  collective  efforts  to  move  away  from  the  nuclear 
abyss have remained too modest in ambition and brought 
only  limited  success.  Today’s  High-level  Meeting  on 
Nuclear  Disarmament  is  an  excellent  opportunity  to 
give urgency, focus and new momentum to this long-
held goal.
The  discourse  on  nuclear  weapons  has 
long 
been  dominated  by 
traditional  national  security 
considerations, but in an age of globalization and in the 
light  of  the  global  consequences  of  nuclear  weapons, 
it is overdue to move beyond this narrow perspective. 
Nuclear  weapons  pose  an  unacceptable  risk 
to 
humankind.  Any  nuclear  weapon  use  would  cause 
severe  humanitarian  emergencies  and  have  global 
consequences  for  the  environment,  health,  human 
development and the economy.
A very important conference took place in Norway 
earlier  this  year.  Its  message  was  clear  —  a  nuclear-
weapon  detonation  today  would  cause  destruction 
and  human  suffering  on  a  scale  far  exceeding  the 
devastation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It would cause 
a  humanitarian  emergency  beyond  the  capabilities  of 
any  State  or  international  body  to  provide  adequate 
assistance.  It  would  not  be  constrained  by  national 
borders  but  would  affect  communities  regionally  as 
well as globally.
I  welcome  the  active  role  of  civil  society  and  the 
increased  international  focus  on  the  humanitarian 
impact of nuclear weapons, such as in the unprecedented 
joint  statement  of  80  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
They underscored that every effort must be exerted to 
eliminate this threat. The follow-up conference planned 
to  be  held  in  Mexico  next  year  will  be  an  important 
opportunity to raise awareness of the real consequences 
of nuclear-weapon use.
The  occurrence  of  such  global  humanitarian 
consequences is not a remote and unrealistic scenario. 
Nine States are  already in possession of nuclear weapons, 
but  overcoming  the  technological  challenges  to  build 
these weapons is no longer limited to a small number 
of  States.  More  and  more  States  —  and  potentially 
non-State actors — will be in a de facto position to reach 
or even cross the line of nuclear-weapon capability. The 
decision to do so will increasingly become a political 
rather than a technological one.
13-48650
5/11
A/68/PV.11 
26/09/2013
As  the  risk  of  nuclear  weapons  proliferation 
increases,  so  does  the  risk  of  their  use  by  someone, 
somewhere. I see only one approach — we must build 
credible  political  and  legal  barriers  against  nuclear 
weapons as such.
Regrettably,  the  value  of  these  weapons  as  so-
called  ultimate  guarantors  of  security  is  still  being 
claimed. Nuclear deterrence, however, is a very high-
risk  approach  to  both  national  and  global  security. 
The  notion  that  Governments  are  rational  enough  to 
handle  nuclear  deterrence  and  that  nuclear  deterrence 
works because it makes Governments act rationally is 
a  dangerous  circular  argument.  Nuclear  deterrence  is 
just  as  fallible  as  any  other  human  concept.  Relying 
on  mutually  assured  destruction  as  the  foundation 
of  international  relations  and  stability  is  neither 
responsible nor sustainable. The conclusion is evident. 
Nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation efforts can 
be achieved only together.
Therefore,  much  greater  effort  across  regional 
groups  is  necessary  with  a  clear  focus  on  a  common 
goal  —  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons.  It  is 
encouraging  that  the  General  Assembly  has  taken  up 
this issue with a renewed sense of responsibility. The 
decision  to  convene  today’s  High-level  Meeting  on 
Nuclear  Disarmament  was  one  important  initiative. 
The  establishment  in  Geneva  of  the  Open-ended 
Working Group to Take Forward Multilateral Nuclear 
Disarmament Negotiations was another. The Working 
Group successfully concluded its work only last month. 
It  provided  an  important  opportunity  for  serious 
discussions on the elements that would be required for 
the  achievement  and  maintenance  of  a  world  without 
nuclear weapons.
Earlier this year, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
said, “There are no right hands for the wrong weapons”. 
He  is  entirely  right  and  I  fully  agree.  The  peoples  of 
the world have the right to live without this menace. It 
is time to move beyond this deadly twentieth-century 
legacy. Nuclear weapons must be stigmatized, banned 
and eliminated before they abolish us.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia, 
President of Mongolia.
President Tsakhia: I would ask the secretariat to 
have the complete version of my statement circulated as 
an official document.
I  am  honoured  and  privileged  to  address  this 
important  meeting,  share  my  thoughts  on  some  of 
the  issues  under  discussion,  and  thereby  contribute 
to  sending  a  clear  and  strong  message  of  the  need  to 
take  resolute  measures  aimed  at  promoting  a  world 
without nuclear weapons. We have gathered here today 
because we all support the bold vision of a world free 
of nuclear weapons and believe that it can be achieved 
with  persistent  effort,  mutual  understanding,  hard 
negotiations and the close cooperation of all members 
of the international community, especially the nuclear-
weapon States.
Nuclear  disarmament  has  multiple  aspects,  each 
of  which  needs  careful  consideration.  Due  to  time 
constraints  I  shall  briefly  focus  on  some  issues,  and 
first on the banning of nuclear weapons. 
Mongolia  supports 
the  Secretary’s  five-point 
proposal  on  nuclear  disarmament.  Hence,  it  agrees 
that  one  of  the  most  urgent  issues  to  be  addressed  is 
the  banning  of  nuclear  weapons.  It  believes  that  it  is 
high time to start negotiations on the nuclear weapons 
convention,  a  preliminary  draft  of  which  has  already 
been  circulated  to  Member  States.  The  results  of  the 
meetings  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and 
the  humanitarian  effects  of  nuclear  weapons  clearly 
underline  the  urgency  of  such  an  action.  In  this 
connection,  I  join  the  call  to  designate  26  September 
the international day for the total elimination of nuclear 
weapons.
forum, 
Secondly, with regard to disarmament negotiations 
and campaigns, it is regrettable that the sole multilateral 
disarmament  negotiating 
the  Conference 
on  Disarmament,  has  not  been  able  to  live  up  to 
expectations.  Although  consultations  are  under  way 
to revitalize its work, the Conference on Disarmament 
remains paralysed. The international community should 
not be at the mercy of individual States in matters that 
affect the vital interests of all. That is why international 
practice  has  demonstrated  the  indispensable  role  of 
coalitions of States and non-governmental organizations 
when the disarmament machinery fails, as exemplified 
by  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  Convention  on 
the  Prohibition  of  the  Use,  Stockpiling,  Production 
and  Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and  on  Their 
Destruction  in  1997  and  the  Convention  on  Cluster 
Munitions in 2008.
Thirdly,  the  establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free 
zones  has  proven  to  be  an  effective  regional  measure 
6/11 
13-48650
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.11
of  non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  The  existing 
zones  need  to  be  strengthened  and  measures  taken  to 
promote the establishment of new zones, including in 
the Middle East and in North-East Asia. Since the latter 
have lingering disputes, the establishment of zones will 
not be easy, but that should not deter or discourage us. 
The  establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  has 
produced  a  great  wealth  of  experience  that  would  be 
useful in establishing new ones. Therefore, Mongolia is 
proposing that the United Nations undertake a second 
comprehensive study on the establishment of nuclear-
weapon-free zones in all its aspects, since the first such 
practical study was undertaken 38 years ago and proved 
useful in establishing the above zones.
Fourthly,  as  to  Mongolia’s  nuclear-weapon-free 
status,  in  line  with  a  vision  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world,  more  than  20  years  ago  Mongolia,  situated 
between  two  nuclear-weapon  States,  declared  itself 
a  single  State  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  and  has 
been  working  hard  to  institutionalize  that  status.  At 
the  national  level,  in  2000  it  adopted  legislation  that 
clearly  defined  the  status  and  criminalized  acts  that 
would violate it. In September 2012, the five nuclear-
weapon States signed a joint declaration that not only 
recognized Mongolia’s nuclear-weapon-free status, but 
also committed them to respecting that status and to not 
contributing to any act that would violate it. Thus, we 
have a pledge by all the permanent five that Mongolia 
will  not  be  pressured  to  accept  any  part  of  a  system 
of nuclear weapons. It will therefore not allow itself to 
be  used  as  a  pawn  in  future  geopolitical  competition 
and  great-Power  rivalry.  A  stable,  non-aligned  and 
reassured  Mongolia  will  be  a  zone  of  confidence  and 
stability, a territory that will not be used to harm the 
interests of others. Mongolia’s experience inspires and 
demonstrates  that  even  small  States  can  contribute  to 
promoting the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons.
Fifthly, concerning North-East Asia, as a country 
with 
in  ensuring  security 
primarily by political and diplomatic means, Mongolia 
is  prepared  on  an  informal  basis  to  work  with  the 
countries of North-East Asia to see if and how a nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  could  be  established  in  the  region. 
Although we know well that that will not be easy and 
will  require  courage,  political  will  and  perseverance, 
it  is  doable,  even  if  not  right  away.  In  the  meantime, 
steps  should  be  taken  to  promote  greater  confidence. 
With  that  in  mind,  in  March  I  proposed  to  start  the 
Ulaanbaatar  dialogue  on  North-East  Asian  security, 
first-hand  experience 
and  I  have  invited  the  countries  of  the  region  to  an 
open  dialogue  so  as  gradually  to  build  confidence  in 
the region.
Let us spare no effort to move nuclear disarmament 
forward. Today’s momentous gathering should give the 
needed boost.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe, 
Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Abe  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  should 
like  to  convey  my  profound  gratitude  to  Ambassador 
Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-seventh session; to you, Ambassador John Ashe, 
President  of  Assembly  at  the  current  session;  and  to 
those  who  have  contributed  to  the  convening  of  this 
meeting. I am highly honoured to take the floor at this 
first  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
Nuclear Disarmament.
Japan  is  the  only  country  that  has  ever  suffered 
the  devastation  caused  by  the  use  of  atomic  bombs 
in  wartime.  We  know  from  experience  the  aftermath 
of  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons,  and  their  elimination 
has been the Japanese people’s unwavering aspiration 
since the end of the Second World War. For my part, I 
participated  in  the  commemorative  peace  ceremonies 
held this August in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, where I 
renewed  my  strong  determination  to  achieve  a  world 
free of nuclear weapons.
A world free of nuclear weapons is a major goal not 
only for Japan but is also for all humankind. However, 
in reality a massive number of nuclear weapons remain, 
and  in  some  areas  nuclear  arsenals  are  supposedly 
increasing  with  a  lack  of  transparency.  Given  the 
possibility  of  nuclear  terrorism  by  non-State  actors 
and the nuclear development efforts of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, the nuclear risk we face is 
more  diverse  and  challenging  than  it  was  in  the  Cold 
War era.
In  such  circumstances,  Japan  regrets  the  long-
standing stalemate in the Conference on Disarmament 
in  Geneva.  As  the  current  international  situation 
is  becoming  ever  more  unpredictable,  now  is  the 
time  to  revitalize  our  efforts  to  advance  on  key 
nuclear  disarmament  issues  in  parallel  with  nuclear 
non-proliferation, such as promoting the entry into force 
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the 
13-48650
7/11
A/68/PV.11 
26/09/2013
early launch of negotiations on and the conclusion of a 
fissile material cut-off treaty.
An  essential  element  in  the  process  of  nuclear 
disarmament  is  for  all  States  possessing  nuclear 
weapons  to  reduce  their  nuclear  arsenals  and  to 
enhance  their  transparency.  In  this  connection,  Japan 
appreciates  the  speech  President  Obama  delivered  in 
Berlin  in  June,  when  he  declared  a  reduction  in  the 
United  States  deployed  strategic  nuclear  weapons 
of  up  to  one-third.  It  is  my  hope  that  the  President’s 
speech will trigger a further reduction by the Russian 
Federation and the United States and that their bilateral 
nuclear  reduction  negotiations  will  soon  develop  into 
multilateral  negotiations  among  all  nuclear-weapon 
States. I also call upon the five nuclear-weapon States to 
report their concrete measures on nuclear disarmament 
on the occasion of the third session of the Preparatory 
Committee  for  the  2015  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons, in 2014.
I should like to emphasize that the responsibilities 
of  the  non-nuclear-weapon  States  are  as  important  as 
those  of  the  nuclear-weapon  States.  Building  realistic 
and practical areas of mutual trust between those two 
sides is the most definitive path to achieve a world free 
of nuclear weapons. Based upon the desire for eternal 
peace enshrined in the Japanese National Constitution 
and the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, Japan 
upholds its firm commitment to the three non-nuclear 
principles and has dedicated itself to world peace and 
prosperity. It will continue faithfully to devote itself to 
nuclear disarmament until it is achieved.
Every  year  since  1994,  Japan  has  submitted  to 
the  General  Assembly  a  draft  resolution  on  nuclear 
disarmament  that  has  been  adopted  by  overwhelming 
majorities.  My  Foreign  Minister,  Mr.  Fumio  Kishida, 
who will be making a speech this afternoon, will host 
the Foreign Ministers’ meeting of the Non-Proliferation 
and  Disarmament  Initiative  (NPDI)  in  Hiroshima,  a 
city that suffered atomic bombing, in April 2014. I am 
confident that the NPDI Foreign Ministers will launch a 
meaningful initiative through their close collaboration.
The  devastation  that  occurred  in  Hiroshima  and 
Nagasaki reminds us of the humanitarian consequences 
of the use of nuclear weapons. Such consequences could 
extend  beyond  our  imagination,  and  such  tragedies 
must  never  recur.  In  order  to  share  our  experience 
with the international community, for more than three 
decades Japan has welcomed the visits of participants 
in  the  United  Nations  Programme  of  Fellowships  on 
Disarmament.  Furthermore,  special  communicators 
for  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons  have  been 
dispatched worldwide to convey the testimonies of their 
survival of the atomic bombings. All political leaders 
responsible for their citizens’ safety should recognize 
the  humanitarian  consequences  of  the  use  of  nuclear 
weapons. I therefore invite all political leaders to visit 
Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  to  witness  at  first  hand  the 
impact of the use of such weapons.
Symbolically,  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  will 
commemorate the seventieth anniversary of those tragic 
events in 2015 when the next NPT Review Conference 
will  be  held.  I  should  like  to  remind  all  present  here 
today  that  their  political  leadership  is  indispensable 
to  advancing  nuclear  disarmament.  In  addition,  the 
2020  Summer  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games, 
recently announced to be held in Tokyo, coincide with 
the  annual  memorial  ceremonies  in  Hiroshima  and 
Nagasaki. I should like to make the Tokyo Olympic and 
Paralympic Games a sports festival where we think of 
peace together with citizens throughout the world.
To  conclude  my  statement  I  should  like  to  stress 
that the time has come for both nuclear-weapon States 
and  non-nuclear-weapon  States  to  overcome  their 
differences  and  unite  in  their  efforts  as  a  whole  to 
achieve the total elimination of nuclear weapons.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Viola  Onwuliri,  Minister  of  State  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Nigeria.
Ms. Onwuliri (Nigeria): Let me begin by expressing 
the  appreciation  of  my  President,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, President of the Federal 
Republic  of  Nigeria,  for  the  invitation  to  address  the 
opening segment of this historic High-level Meeting of 
the  General  Assembly  on  Nuclear  Disarmament.  His 
Excellency  has  also  requested  that  I  convey  his  very 
warm  regards  and  felicitations  to  all  participants  and 
convey his regrets at his inability to be here physically.
I  also  wish  to  acknowledge  at  this  point  the 
presence  here  of  eminent  Heads  of  Government  to 
add strength and credibility to what we are doing here 
today. I also commend the efforts of the President of the 
General Assembly, as well as those of his predecessor, 
to  organize  this  Meeting.  I  should  like  to  seize  this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
insightful remarks. This initiative of the Non-Aligned 
8/11 
13-48650
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.11
Movement, which has now crystallized in the first-ever 
High-level  Meeting  on  Nuclear  Disarmament,  is  both 
timely and noble.
On 24 January 1946, the General Assembly took a 
bold and decisive step when it unanimously adopted its 
first resolution establishing a commission to deal with 
the problems raised by the discovery of atomic energy. 
Since then, and despite the best intentions and efforts, 
the  challenges  posed  by  the  successor  brand,  nuclear 
weapons, have continued to haunt the world.
Nuclear weapons are, by definition, weapons whose 
sole  objective  is  mass  destruction.  The  question  then 
should be why the world planning is to mass destruct. 
Nuclear disarmament is an idea whose time has indeed 
finally come. Humankind has lived on the edge for too 
long. It has repeatedly been demonstrated that nuclear 
weapons  are  inhumane  and  completely  unacceptable 
weapons  that  should  be  taken  off  the  list  of  global 
armaments  by  responsible  and  respected  partners  in 
human development projects. 
We have also witnessed the pain of natural disasters 
and the miseries they unleash on States throughout the 
world, including the costs of recovery and rehabilitation, 
which  run  into  billions  of  dollars.  But  we  are  also 
aware  that,  unlike  other  natural  disasters,  adequate 
humanitarian response might not be possible following 
a single nuclear explosion or detonation in a populated 
area.  In  view  of  this,  States  are  not  expected  to  keep 
developing or possessing nuclear weapons. Therefore, 
the  zero  tolerance  shown  by  States  against  chemical 
and biological weapons, which are similar weapons of 
mass  destruction,  should  be  extended  to  all  types  of 
nuclear weapons.
Need  I  underscore  that,  as  we  know,  in  the  end 
nuclear weapons do not necessarily ensure security. On 
the contrary, they exacerbate fear and entrench mutual 
distrust  in  all  ramifications  due  to  the  threat  and 
assurance — yes, assurance — of death and destruction. 
The moral watershed, I should stress, is that enormous 
resources that could truly address hunger and poverty 
and  help  us  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  at  all  levels  are  wasted  annually  in  the  cycle 
of  developing,  maintaining  and  redesigning  these 
weapons.
No  State  acquires  a  nuclear  weapon  without  due 
consideration  of  its  future  deployment  or  use  in  one 
capacity or another. In other words, the policy of nuclear 
deterrence is predicated on the actual willingness and 
capacity of all possessors of such weapons to use them. 
My country, Nigeria, believes that the time has come for 
the commencement of negotiations on a comprehensive 
convention  on  nuclear  weapons 
that  addresses 
the  prohibition  of 
their  possession,  development, 
production,  acquisition,  testing,  stockpiling,  transfer, 
use or threat of use, and destruction.
I  must  acknowledge  the  little  progress  that  has 
been  made, particularly in the few bilateral agreements 
freely entered into by some world Powers to reduce the 
number of their nuclear arsenals. Notwithstanding these 
arrangements,  the  bigger  existential  threat  remains 
that, irrespective of the number of these weapons left 
in arsenals of States worldwide, they could one day be 
used, accidentally or on purpose. The explicit or implicit 
willingness of any Member State of this noble body to 
use  nuclear  weapons  as  a  matter  of  policy  should  be 
considered  to  be  totally  unacceptable.  The  horrors  of 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki are all too real to contemplate 
another such scenario. They should assist in deepening 
our resolve to prevent a recurrence of such unspeakable 
and unnecessary death and destruction.
Nigeria  remains  resolute  in  its  support  for  total 
nuclear  disarmament  and  is  ready  to  partner  with  all 
States  willing  to  realize  a  future  of  progress  for  our 
children in a world without nuclear weapons. We should 
seize this momentum to address the need to unblock the 
impasse in the Conference on Disarmament and other 
deliberative  multilateral  bodies  established  through 
the instrumentality of the General Assembly. The road 
through the negotiations could be tough and tortuous. 
Our  collective  resolve  is  to  stay  committed  to  all 
obligations, particularly in the agreed structure of the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
while ensuring that deadlock is not acceptable if we are 
to prevent future catastrophe.
The  contributions  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones 
remain  pivotal  to  the  overall  goals  of  achieving  the 
objective of nuclear disarmament. Nigeria unvaryingly 
supports  the  establishment  of  such  zones  across  all 
regions,  including  in  the  Middle  East.  I  also  wish  to 
seize this opportunity to call on all States, in particular 
nuclear-weapon States, to support existing treaties, to 
ratify related protocols to all treaties establishing such 
zones,  to  withdraw  reservations,  and  to  respect  the 
denuclearized status of these zones.
We could not agree more with Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon that the problem is not just proliferation, but 
13-48650
9/11
A/68/PV.11 
26/09/2013
the continued existence of nuclear weapons themselves. 
As he rightly highlights, there are no right hands for the 
wrong  weapons.  Our  efforts  to  outlaw,  eliminate  and 
consign nuclear weapons to the dustbin of history must 
start now.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  who  will  make  a  statement 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  (CELAC),  over  which  Cuba  is  honoured  to 
preside,  attaches  great  importance  to  the  holding,  for 
the first time in the history of the United Nations, of a 
High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on Nuclear 
Disarmament.  We  are  committed  to  participating 
actively and to contributing as much as possible to the 
success of this Meeting.
The  States  members  of  CELAC  reiterate  their 
grave concern at the threat that the ongoing existence 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  their  potential  use  or  threat 
of  use  poses  for  mankind.  There  is  an  urgent  need 
to  advance  towards  the  primary  goal  of  nuclear 
disarmament and to achieve the complete and general 
elimination of nuclear weapons. In this regard, CELAC 
joins the international community in its efforts to make 
progress  towards  the  negotiation  of  a  universal  and 
legally  binding  instrument  banning  nuclear  weapons. 
Our  region  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  achieving 
complete and verifiable nuclear disarmament. The only 
guarantee  against  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  nuclear 
weapons is their complete elimination.
The  use  or  threat  of  use  of  nuclear  weapons  is  a 
crime against humanity and a violation of international 
law,  including  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  CELAC  member 
States  will  participate  actively  in  drafting  concrete 
proposals  to  achieve  universal  nuclear  disarmament, 
in  accordance  with  a  multilaterally  agreed,  clear, 
irreversible and verifiable time frame.
It  is  in  the  real  interest  of  non-nuclear-weapon 
States,  which  includes  all  CELAC  member  States,  to 
receive  unequivocal  and  legally  binding  assurances 
from nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of 
use of such weapons. We call for a start to negotiations 
and  the  earliest  possible  adoption  of  a  universal 
and  legally  binding  instrument  on  negative  security 
assurances.
We call on all States, in particular nuclear-weapon 
States, to eliminate the role that nuclear weapons play 
in  their  doctrines,  military  strategies  and  security 
policies or as a prospective approach to the management 
of  conflicts  so  as  to  achieve  the  total  elimination  of 
such weapons regardless of their type or geographical 
location.
The  establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones 
strengthens 
international  and  regional  peace  and 
security,  as  well  as  the  non-proliferation  regime,  and 
is  an  important  contribution  to  nuclear  disarmament. 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  are  proud  to  be 
the  first  densely  populated  area  in  the  world  to  be 
declared a nuclear-weapon-free zone under the Treaty 
for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  in  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  has  contributed  to  nuclear  disarmament 
and non-proliferation as well as to regional and global 
peace and security. 
The  Treaty  of  Tlatelolco  and  the  Agency  for  the 
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the 
Caribbean (OPANAL) have constituted a political, legal 
and institutional point of reference in the establishment 
of other nuclear-weapon-free zones in various regions 
of  the  world.  OPANAL’s  experience,  together  with 
that  of  the  other  four  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  and 
Mongolia  as  a  single  State  unilaterally  declared  free 
of  nuclear  weapons,  constitutes  an  important  legacy 
bestowed by the international community to inspire the 
establishment of new such zones and advance towards 
the goal of a nuclear-weapon-free world.
We  urge  the  nuclear  Powers  to  withdraw  all 
interpretative declarations to Protocols I and II of the 
Tlatelolco  Treaty  that  constitute  genuine  reservations 
prohibited  by  the  Treaty,  contributing  thereby  to 
eliminating the possible use of nuclear weapons against 
countries of the region. We will continue working with 
States parties to the Protocols in order to convince them 
to withdraw or modify such declarations.
We regret the failure to implement the agreement 
on the convening in 2012 of an international conference 
on  the  establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  The  convening  of  such  a  conference  is 
an  important  and  integral  part  of  the  final  outcome 
10/11 
13-48650
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.11
of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  The  outcome  of  that  conference  would  be  an 
important  contribution  towards  achieving  the  goal  of 
nuclear  disarmament.  We  are  firmly  convinced  that 
the  establishment  of  the  zone  would  represent  a  truly 
significant step in the peace process in the Middle East. 
We therefore urge the convening of the conference as 
soon as possible.
We  urge  the  nuclear-weapon  States  to  fulfil  their 
commitments under article VI of the NPT and to advance 
towards the complete elimination of those weapons. It 
is necessary fully and immediately to implement the 13 
practical steps towards nuclear disarmament agreed at 
the 2000 NPT Review Conference, as well as the plan 
of action adopted at the 2010 Review Conference.
CELAC reaffirms the inalienable right of States to 
develop, research, produce and peacefully use nuclear 
energy without discrimination and in conformity with 
articles I, II, III and IV of the NPT. All parties to the 
Treaty  have  committed  themselves  to  facilitating 
participation 
the  fullest  possible  exchange  of 
equipment,  materials  and  scientific  and  technological 
information for the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
in 
We  totally  reject  the  updating  of  existing  nuclear 
weapons and the development of new types of nuclear 
weapons,  which  is  inconsistent  with  the  obligation  of 
complete nuclear disarmament. All States must refrain 
from undertaking nuclear-weapon test explosions, other 
nuclear explosions, or any other relevant non-explosive 
experiments,  including  subcritical  experiments,  for 
nuclear-weapon  development  purposes.  Such  actions 
run  counter  to  the  objective  and  purpose  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  and 
its spirit — if not the letter — and undermine its desired 
impact as a nuclear disarmament measure.
CELAC demands a total nuclear test ban and urges 
annex 2 States, whose ratifications are essential for the 
entry into force of the CTBT, to accelerate the process 
of signing and/or ratifying this instrument as a matter 
of  priority  and  as  an  indication  of  their  political  will 
and  commitment  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  starting  negotiations 
on an international legally binding instrument banning 
nuclear  weapons  and  our  commitment  towards  this 
primary goal.
The first special session of the General Assembly 
devoted  to  disarmament  established  the  Conference 
on Disarmament as the single multilateral negotiating 
forum  for  disarmament.  We  urge  the  Conference  to 
demonstrate  the  necessary  political  will  to  ensure 
the  start,  without  delay,  of  substantive  work  through 
the  adoption  and  implementation  of  a  balanced  and 
comprehensive  programme  of  work  that  advances  the 
agenda of nuclear disarmament.
We recognize the work of the Open-ended Working 
Group established by resolution 67/56 with the mandate 
to  develop  proposals  to  take  forward  multilateral 
nuclear  disarmament  negotiations.  States  members  of 
CELAC  have  contributed  concrete  proposals  to  the 
Group’s  work.  We  reiterate  the  firm  commitment  of 
CELAC  to  working  for  the  convening  of  a  high-level 
international conference to identify ways and means to 
eliminate nuclear weapons within the shortest possible 
time,  aimed  at  agreeing  on  a  phased  programme  for 
the complete elimination of nuclear weapons within a 
specific  time  frame  in  order  to  ban  the  development, 
production,  acquisition,  testing,  stockpiling,  transfer, 
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons and to stipulate 
their destruction.
CELAC member States express their grave concern 
over the humanitarian impact of huge proportions and 
global  effects  of  any  accidental  or  intentional  nuclear 
detonation. We call upon the international community to 
reiterate its concern for the humanitarian consequences 
of nuclear weapons whenever a debate on this type of 
weapons takes place.
We welcome the outcome of the Oslo Conference 
on 
the  Humanitarian  Consequences  of  Nuclear 
Weapons held in March 2013. We call upon all States 
to  participate  in  the  second  international  Conference, 
which  will  be  held  in  Mexico  on  13  and  14  February 
2014.  States  members  of  CELAC  will  continue  to 
coordinate  their  positions  and  to  contribute  to  the 
implementation  of  practical  actions  as  a  follow-up  to 
this  High-level  Meeting,  including  the  adoption  of  a 
draft resolution on the matter in the First Committee at 
this sixty-eighth session.
Cuba,  a  small  country  which  has  defended  its 
independence,  including  from  the  threat  of  nuclear 
holocaust, will take an active part in the international 
movement, as advocated by Fidel Castro Ruz, to destroy 
all  nuclear  weapons,  the  mere  existence  of  which 
endangers the very survival of the human species.
The meeting rose at 10.25 a.m.
13-48650
11/11
