United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
16th plenary meeting
Friday, 27 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.16
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President 
of the United Republic of Tanzania
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United Republic of Tanzania, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of 
the United Republic of Tanzania, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Kikwete:  Allow  me 
to  begin  by 
congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  well-
deserved  election  to  steer  the  affairs  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. As I congratulate 
you, I would like to assure you of Tanzania’s support and 
cooperation  as  you  discharge  of  your  responsibilities. 
I  also  wish  to  acknowledge  and  commend  your 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
outstanding leadership during the sixty-seventh session. 
A great deal was achieved because of his visionary and 
wise leadership. In the same vein, I would like to pay 
glowing  tribute  to  our  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
excellent work he is doing for the United Nations and 
humankind at large.
My delegation and I find the theme of this year’s 
General  Assembly  to  be  timely  and  very  opportune. 
We should start now to set the stage for the post-2015 
development agenda. Hence I find the theme, “The post-
2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  to  be  a 
wise choice: it affords us an opportunity to know where 
we  are  with  regard  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  and  to  decide  what  needs  to  be  done 
to  complete  the  unfinished  business  and  enable  us  to 
make informed decisions beyond 2015.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  framework 
is  the  best  development  framework  ever  produced  to 
address  global  and  national  development  challenges. 
The  world  has  never  witnessed  such  a  coalescence  of 
concerted efforts into a unified framework. It is heart-
warming to note that progress towards attaining MDGs 
has  been  made  over  the  past  13  years.  However,  that 
progress varies from one Goal to another, and is highly 
uneven across nations and continents.
Although  extreme  poverty  has  been  halved  at 
the global level, more than 1.2 billion people are still 
trapped in extreme poverty, which is a saddening fact. 
An  estimated  19,000  children  under  the  age  of  five 
and  approximately  800  women  die  every  day  mostly 
from preventable and curable diseases. That is totally 
unacceptable  in  a  world  of  unprecedented  advances 
in  science  and  technology,  which  could  be  leveraged 
to solve almost all the development challenges facing 
humankind. 
In a world that has enough food to feed everybody, 
nobody  should  go  hungry  or  be  undernourished.  In 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48790 (E)
*1348790*
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
a  world  with  so  much  wealth,  there  is  no  reason  that 
poverty,  hunger  and  deprivation  should  ever  continue 
to inflict pain and cause misery to many people. It is 
incomprehensible, therefore, that the MDGs could not 
be fully attained.
significant  progress 
Tanzania  has  made 
in 
implementing  the  MDGs.  We  have  already  achieved 
the targets in four of the eight MDGs, well before the 
deadline set of 2015. In MDG 2, we have achieved the 
target  on  universal  primary  education  enrolment.  On 
MDG 3, we have achieved the target of gender parity in 
both primary and secondary school enrolment. That is 
a change from the past, when there were more boys than 
girls in schools. As a matter of fact, the trend is now 
tilting towards more girls than boys in school. We are 
yet to meet targets with regard to the ratio of females 
to males in tertiary education and in decision-making 
positions,  in  particular  Parliament.  However,  it  is 
possible  to  achieve  the  target  for  parliamentarians  by 
2015 because we are now in the process of reviewing 
our Constitution.
We  are  on 
to  reducing 
HIV/AIDS  infections,  which  is  the  requirement  of 
MDG 6. Similarly, we have attained MDG 4, on child 
mortality,  which  is  a  major  achievement  as  compared 
to where we were in 2000. But it is depressing that we 
are not on track with regard to MDG 5, with regard to 
maternal health. We are intensifying efforts to do better 
in order to improve the health of women in Tanzania.
target  with  regard 
With 
regard 
to  MDG  7,  on  environmental 
sustainability, we are on target with regard to drinking 
water  for  the  urban  population,  but  we  are  lagging 
behind when it comes to rural water supply and access 
to improved sanitation, both in rural and urban areas.
We  have  not  relented  in  our  pursuit  of  the  MDG 
targets that we are not likely to achieve by 2015. That 
will  be  the  unfinished  business  on  which  we  will 
probably need to take action over and above what we are 
doing. We are lagging far behind with regard to MDG 
1 in its four main indicators. There is not much chance 
of meeting those targets by 2015 despite the efforts we 
have been making.
However,  we  have  been  intensifying  actions  to 
transform  and  modernize  our  agriculture.  Our  aim 
is  to  increase  productivity  and  farmers’  incomes,  as 
well as to ensure food and nutrition security for them 
and the nation. Agriculture employs 75 per cent of the 
Tanzanian population, and it is in that sector where the 
majority of poor are concentrated. Therefore, improved 
agriculture  will  mean  fewer  poor  people  and  fewer 
hungry  people.  Plans  are  also  under  way  to  expand 
the  conditional  cash-transfer  programme  under  the 
Tanzania Aocial Action Fund supported by the World 
Bank.  We  want  to  increase  the  size  of  investment  to 
benefit more vulnerable people, so as to accelerate the 
implementation of MDG 1 in the shortest possible time.
Generally,  it  remains  my  firm  belief  that  despite 
some  failures,  the  MDGs  have  been  nothing  short  of 
a remarkable success. If developed countries provided 
financing as envisaged under MDG 8 and in keeping with 
the Monterrey Consensus and their own commitments 
in  different  forums  of  the  Group  of  Eight  and  Group 
of 20, we would have implemented all of the MDGs to 
the letter and spirit. We find unrealistic any post-2015 
development agenda that does not address the critical 
issue of ensuring adequate financing. That is also true 
with  regard  to  accelerating  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs  in  the  period  remaining.  We  will  continue  to 
look to the United Nations for guidance and leadership 
in steering both processes to a successful conclusion. 
The  fact  that  the  United  Nations  needs  reform  is 
a  matter  of  little  disagreement.  Our  collective  failure 
to  respond  to  that  reality  creates  scepticism  about 
our  common  resolve  to  strengthen  the  Organization, 
which  is  meant  to  serve  all  nations  and  peoples.  The 
reform we demand is long overdue. While we welcome 
discussions on the reform of the Economic and Social 
Council,  Africa  will  not  relent  in  demanding  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  so  that  the  continent  with 
the  largest  membership  in  the  United  Nations  has  a 
permanent voice.
Regrettably, conflicts have continued to interfere in 
our development endeavours, as they linger in different 
parts of the world — from the Sahel to the eastern part 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and from Syria 
to Afghanistan and other places. Conflicts have caused 
an  enormous  loss  of  innocent  lives,  as  populations 
continue to endure suffering. 
The  recent  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  as 
confirmed  by  United  Nations  inspectors,  is  rather 
distressing.  We  condemn  that  flagrant  and  senseless 
killing of innocent people, including children, in Syria. 
We  commend  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Security 
Council for way they have handled the matter. I believe 
the doors for a peaceful solution to the Syrian crisis are 
not closed and that a military solution should be the last 
resort.
2/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
The United Republic of Tanzania regrets to see the 
suffering of the people of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo as a consequence of a conflict that has continued 
for  far  too  long.  We  hope  that  this  time  around,  the 
initiative of the Secretary-General that resulted in the 
establishment  of  the  Peace,  Security  and  Cooperation 
Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  the  Region,  which  was  signed  in  February,  will 
deliver lasting peace, security and development for the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes 
region as a whole. We highly commend the Secretary-
General  for  his  vision  and  leadership  in  that  regard. 
We  welcome  the  choice  of  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Mary 
Robinson,  former  President  of  Ireland,  as  the  Special 
Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for  the  Great  Lakes 
Region. She will surely help advance the cause of peace 
in  the  region,  if  supported  by  all  of  us  in  the  region 
and the international community. Tanzania commits its 
support in that respect.
Among 
facing 
the  enduring  problems 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo is the proliferation 
of  armed  groups  with  varied  interests.  Bolder  action 
is  required  to  uproot  those  negative  elements.  Those 
groups should be neutralized and disarmed. It is in that 
context that we welcomed an expanded mandate for the 
United  Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo as per Security 
Council  resolution  2098  (2013),  which,  among  other 
things, established the Intervention Brigade. Tanzania 
agreed to contribute troops to the Brigade because we 
believe  it  will  help  to  deter  belligerence  and  create  a 
conducive  environment  for  a  political  process  to  take 
effect.  Of  course,  any  panacea  for  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo problem will be political rather 
than military.
Since  2007,  Tanzania  has  been  a  proactive 
contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
With  more  than  2,500  peacekeepers  —  in  Lebanon, 
Darfur  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  —  we 
are the sixth-largest contributor of military and police 
peacekeepers  in  Africa,  and  twelfth  globally.  We 
are  partaking  in  that  noble  endeavour  as  a  faithful 
Member  of  the  United  Nations,  ready  to  perform  the 
duty  of  advancing  and  upholding  the  ideals  of  the 
Organization.  We  are  satisfied  that  our  contribution, 
albeit modest, is having a broader impact on those who 
have experienced the horrors of conflict. In discharging 
that  historic  mission,  however,  our  peacekeepers,  and 
therefore  Tanzania,  have  sometimes  paid  the  ultimate 
price,  as  was  the  case  recently  with  the  loss  of  seven 
brave soldiers in Darfur and two in the eastern part of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Those soldiers 
are  our  national  heroes,  and  their  sacrifice  is  not  in 
vain. We hold them in very high regard.
The death of our peacekeepers was a grim reminder 
of the dangers facing peacekeepers around the world. It 
is disturbing that armed groups and peace spoilers are 
increasingly attacking such servants of peace. We must 
unreservedly condemn all such attacks, as there is no 
cause  or  justification  for  such  barbaric  attacks.  They 
constitute a crime under international law. The Security 
Council,  whose  primary  role  is  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  should  be  in  the 
forefront in terms of condemning such barbaric acts in 
good time.
At  this  juncture,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our  call  for 
an  end  to  the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  has  lasted  for 
more  than  50  years.  Our  call  to  end  that  unilateral 
embargo  is  predicated  upon  not  only  its  legality  but 
also  upon  humanitarian  concerns,  in  particular  the 
negative  effects  it  has  on  the  quality  of  life  of  many 
innocent Cubans. We are deeply encouraged by recent 
developments, especially the removal of restrictions on 
family travel, cash remittances and telecommunication 
services. We hope that spirit will culminate in a total 
cessation of the embargo in the not-too-distant future so 
that Cubans will be relieved of the enormous economic, 
social and financial hardships they have endured for far 
too long.
A  solution  to  the  dispute  over  the  sovereignty  of 
Western  Sahara  is  also  long  overdue.  It  is  high  time 
that  the  United  Nations  took  bold  action  to  give  the 
Saharawi people an opportunity to decide their fate. It 
is  incomprehensible  that  the  Security  Council,  which 
has  been  able  to  handle  bigger  security  challenges, 
including  in  similar  circumstances,  has  not  been  able 
to  resolve  the  matter  for  nearly  40  years  now.  Justice 
delayed is justice denied. 
Members will agree that the Rome Statute, which 
established  the  International  Criminal  Court,  was  a 
major  milestone  for  the  international  criminal  justice 
system. The Court’s establishment as a mechanism for 
fighting  impunity  was  possible  only  with  the  support 
of Africa. 
However, a decade after its entry into force, a rift 
has  grown  between  the  Court  and  our  continent.  The 
Court is perceived as unresponsive to what are, in our 
13-48790
3/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
view,  the  legitimate  concerns  of  African  leaders  and 
the  peoples  of  Africa.  It  continues  to  ignore  repeated 
requests and appeals by the African Union. It was sad 
to  note  that  legitimate  requests  regarding  the  timing 
of the trials of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy 
President William Ruto went unanswered. That attitude 
has  become  a  major  handicap  in  terms  of  reconciling 
the  Court’s  secondary  and  complementary  role  in 
fighting  impunity.  The  Court’s  rigidity  has  proved 
counterproductive  and  threatens  to  undermine  the 
support it enjoys in Africa. We demand a change in that 
perception.
in 
the  strongest 
Tanzania  condemns 
terms 
possible  the  cowardly  attack  that  happened  last  week 
at the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, which left more than 
60  innocent  people  dead  and  hundreds  more  injured. 
I  spoke  and  wrote  to  President  Kenyatta  to  express 
our sadness and dismay. Yesterday, I signed the book 
of  condolences  at  the  Kenyan  Mission  to  the  United 
Nations here in New York. I reaffirmed our solidarity 
with President Kenyatta and the people of Kenya during 
these difficult moments, as well as our solidarity in the 
fight against terrorism. 
That heinous attack is a heartbreaking reminder of 
the threat that terrorism poses to humankind. None of 
us is completely safe from terrorism, as it can happen 
anywhere,  anytime  and  to  anyone.  We  must  therefore 
increase  our  vigilance,  enhance  regional  and  global 
cooperation  and  scale  up  the  fight  against  terrorism. 
The challenge ahead of us can be neither underestimated 
nor understated. Success will depend upon our unity of 
purpose  and  determination.  At  this  juncture,  I  would 
like  to  commend  His  Excellency  President  Uhuru 
Kenyatta for his exemplary leadership in the wake of the 
attack and his unshaken resolve and firm commitment 
to  continue  to  support  the  peacebuilding  efforts  in 
Somalia and elsewhere. We are with the Kenyan people 
in this time of distress and grief.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once more that 
we  are  passing  through  a  time  of  great  opportunity 
despite the many challenges. We must take advantage 
of the current scientific and technological innovations, 
the current advances in information and communication 
technologies  and  the  knowledge  and  lessons  learned 
from the implementation of development programmes, 
including the MDGs, to build a world without poverty, 
hunger, disease and deprivation. 
We must build a world that protects its environment 
and nature, a world without wars, conflicts or acts of 
terrorism,  a  world  where  human  rights  are  respected, 
the  rule  of  law  is  observed,  democracy  reigns  and 
civil  society  is  regarded  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
development endeavour. With stronger multilateralism 
and  the  United  Nations  leading  the  way,  and  with 
strong political will on the part of national leaders and 
the  people  of  our  nations,  everything  is  possible.  We 
can make our world a better place for everyone to live.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the United Republic of 
Tanzania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Ralph E. Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines.
Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  and  inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
For  the  second  time  in  my  tenure  as  Prime  Minister 
of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  I  have  the 
pleasure  and  honour  to  welcome  a  distinguished  son 
of our Caribbean civilization to the presidency of the 
General Assembly. Even as we thank your immediate 
predecessor  for  his  service  as  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, we look 
forward to your tenure, President Ashe, with boundless 
pride and unbridled optimism.
Mr.  President,  for  this  year’s  general  debate,  you 
have  chosen  the  theme  “The  post-2015  development 
agenda: setting the stage”. This is also the year in which 
you  will  lay  the  groundwork  for  the  United  Nations 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, which will take place in Samoa next September. 
Your  dual  focus  on  the  international  development 
4/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
agenda and the peculiarities of small island States make 
this sixty-eighth session one of the most important in 
my  country’s  33  years  of  membership  in  the  United 
Nations.
relations.  Surely  the  time  has  now  come  for  this 
exemplar of the magnificent Chinese civilization to be 
permitted to participate fully in the work of the various 
agencies of this world body.
Let me first say that the people of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines are deeply pained at the horrendous acts 
of  terrorism  recently  committed  in  Kenya.  I  reaffirm 
yet again our solidarity with the Government and the 
people of Kenya.
William  Shakespeare  cautioned  that  what  is  past, 
is  prologue.  Similarly,  Mr.  President,  your  invitation 
to consider the future of the international development 
agenda requires us to first consider the ways in which 
our recent and long-ago steps and missteps shape our 
future developmental challenges and opportunities.
I  begin  with  an  unfortunate,  inconvenient  truth: 
our  collective  failure  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  largely  rooted  not 
in  the  shortcomings  of  earnest  and  hardworking 
developing countries, but in developed countries’ abject 
abandonment of Goal 8, “Develop a global partnership 
for development”. The Organization’s own MDG Gap 
Task  Force  noted  in  its  report  entitled  “The  Global 
Partnership for Development: The Challenge We Face” 
that the quest for such a global partnership experienced 
significant  backsliding  in  2013  and  that  “the  political 
momentum  for  advancing  international  development 
cooperation seems to have waned”.
Sixteen  of  25  developed  countries  decreased 
their  aid  budgets  last  year,  and  official  development 
assistance (ODA) contracted for the second consecutive 
year,  the  first  such  contraction  since  the  creation  of 
the MDGs. In a time of crisis, when assistance is most 
needed, ODA is itself in a deep and prolonged recession. 
The twists and turns by so many developed countries 
on  this  issue  have  been  most  disappointing.  Without 
predictable  flows  of  meaningful,  non-discretionary 
assistance, the post-2015 development programme will 
remain, substantially, a fleeting illusion to be pursued 
but rarely, if ever, attained.
At  the  same  time,  I  applaud  the  efforts  of  those 
developed  nations  that  take  their  ODA  commitments 
seriously. I hail, too, a raft of other countries that are 
in a genuine developmental and functional partnership 
with  us.  These  include  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Cuba, 
Venezuela and Taiwan. Indeed, Taiwan, a country not 
washed by our Caribbean Sea, has been remarkable in its 
principled and practical conduct of intergovernmental 
Our debate on the future developmental agenda of 
the international community is taking place against the 
backdrop of the ongoing global economic and financial 
crisis.  The  global  economy  remains  precariously 
poised, and for every nation that seems to have turned 
the  corner,  another  plunges  back  into  recession.  The 
impact of the crisis on development has been palpable 
and  has  rendered  the  MDGs  unattainable  in  many 
countries.  Therefore,  if  we  are  to  discuss  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  we  must  also  discuss  the 
reform agenda of our outmoded international financial 
architecture, whose failings contributed to the current 
crisis, and whose continued stasis is a reckless invitation 
to future economic turmoil.
Despite  the  challenges  of  the  ongoing  exogenous 
shocks, including natural disasters, and the encumbrances 
imposed  by  an  insufficiently  flexible  international 
financial  architecture,  my  country  continues  to  make 
significant  strides  in  our  people-centred  approach 
to  development  and  poverty  alleviation.  This  past 
June,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  was  one  of 
18  countries  recognized  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO)  for  having 
achieved the part of Millennium Development Goal 1 on 
halving the proportion of hungry people by 2015 — and 
we have reduced it to below 5 per cent — and the more 
stringent  World  Food  Summit  goal  of  halving  the 
absolute number of hungry people by 2015.
For a small, vulnerable country to achieve this task 
ahead of schedule and in the midst of this debilitating 
global economic and financial crisis is truly outstanding. 
We  have  done  so  while  maintaining  and  advancing 
good  governance,  individual  liberties  and  democracy 
in accordance with global best practices.
But the ambitions of my Government are far greater 
than  Goal  1  of  the  MDGs.  Having  more  than  halved 
hunger, we have now set our sights on the elimination of 
hunger altogether: to achieve zero hunger. We hope that 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
can partner with us effectively in fulfilling that historic 
ambition.  Our  policy  goal  of  ensuring  that  no  man, 
woman or child goes to bed hungry will have its own 
positive knock-on effects on poverty reduction, health 
and arresting the spread of chronic non-communicable 
13-48790
5/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
diseases  —  which  itself  should  also  be  of  central 
importance to our post-2015 development agenda.
As  the  Assembly  is  well  aware,  the  roots  of 
underdevelopment  and  exploitation  extend  much 
deeper  than  the  recent  abandonment  of  MDG  Goal  8 
by  the  bulk  of  developed  countries.  I  arrived  at  this 
year’s  general  debate  from  the  Caribbean’s  first-ever 
regional conference on reparations for native genocide 
and  slavery,  which  was  held  in  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines.  That  stirring  and  uplifting  regional 
conference  was  the  first  step  in  the  Caribbean’s 
quest  to  address  and  redress  a  psychic,  historical, 
socioeconomic  and  developmental  wound  that  is,  for 
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  14  nations 
wide and 400 years deep.
The  genocidal  oppression  and  suffering  of  my 
country’s  indigenous  Callinago,  the  Garifuna  and 
enchained  Africans  have  been  rightly  adjudged  to 
have  been  a  horrendous  crime  against  humanity. 
Accordingly,  the  collective  voice  of  our  Caribbean 
civilization ought justly to ring out for reparations for 
native genocide and African slavery from the successor 
States  of  the  European  countries  that  committed 
organized State-sponsored native genocide and African 
enslavement. 
that  exists 
today 
legacy  of 
legacy 
those  crimes  against 
The  awful 
humanity  —  a 
the 
Caribbean — ought to be repaired for the developmental 
benefit  of  our  Caribbean  societies  and  all  our 
peoples.  The  historic  wrongs  of  native  genocide  and 
African  slavery  and  their  continuing  contemporary 
consequences  must  be  righted  and  repaired,  in  the 
interests of our people’s humanity. 
in 
European nations must partner in a focused, special 
way with us to execute that repairing. The demand for 
reparations  is  therefore  the  responsibility  not  only  of 
the descendants, in today’s Caribbean, of the Callinago, 
the  Garifuna,  the  Amerindian  and  the  African.  It 
is  undoubtedly  an  agenda  for  all  of  us  to  advance, 
promote, concretize and execute. The European nations 
that  engaged  in  conquest,  settlement,  genocide  and 
slavery  in  our  Caribbean  must  provide  the  resources 
required  to  repair  the  contemporary  legacy  of  those 
historic wrongs. That is undoubtedly a special pillar in 
the post-2015 development agenda.
That repairing of the mind, of collective memory, of 
our economies and of our societies is part and parcel of 
the rebirth, the redemption and the further ennoblement 
of  our  Caribbean,  our  indigenous  populations,  our 
African descendants and, indeed, of Africa. I say to the 
Assembly that the struggle for reparations represents, 
immediately, a defining issue for our Caribbean in the 
twenty-first century. It promises to make both Europe 
and  the  Caribbean  more  free,  more  human  and  more 
good-neighbourly.  CARICOM  recently  decided,  quite 
rightly, to place the quest for reparations at the centre 
of its development agenda.
to  speak 
I  am  also  compelled 
today  on  a 
contemporary  injustice  that  is  entirely  within  the 
capacity of the Assembly to address. In 2010, negligent, 
or  even 
reckless,  United  Nations  peacekeepers 
contaminated  a  Haitian  drinking  water  supply,  which 
led to an outbreak of cholera that killed 8,000 innocent 
Haitians  and  infected  600,000  others.  There  is  no 
longer any scientific dispute that the United Nations is 
responsible for the outbreak, as has been conclusively 
established in the relevant reports. Prior to the United 
Nations negligence, Haiti had not seen a single case of 
cholera in 150 years. There are more cholera-infected 
persons in Haiti today than in the rest of the world.
I  continue  to  be  deeply  disturbed  by  the  callous 
disregard of the United Nations of the suffering it has 
wrought  in  a  fellow  CARICOM  country,  and  by  the 
shameful  and  legalistic  avoidance  of  what  is  a  clear 
moral responsibility on the part of the United Nations. 
Accordingly, I call on Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
to  acknowledge  unambiguously,  and  apologize  for, 
the  Organization’s  role  in  that  tragedy  and  to  take 
immediate  steps  to  compensate  the  victims  and  their 
families.  Anything  less  will  further  undermine  the 
moral authority and credibility of this institution.
Sixty-eight years ago, our predecessors conceived 
of  a  grand  experiment,  a  commitment  to  bind  the 
world  together  in  a  collective  quest  for  peace,  justice 
and  development.  Over  time,  we  have  established  a 
body  of  rules,  laws  and  expectations  that  add  flesh 
to  the  principles  that  undergird  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  Now,  we  are  engaged  —  explicitly 
and  indirectly,  willingly  and  reluctantly  —  in  a 
reassessment  of  that  grand  commitment.  Today,  the 
actions of a small subset of powerful nations shake the 
very  foundations  upon  which  the  Assembly  was  built 
and threaten to bring the temple down upon the heads 
of those of us who still subscribe to the original tenets 
of our institution.
Properly  conceived  and  universally  adhered  to, 
international  law  is  the  bulwark  against  impunity, 
6/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
unilateralism,  and  Great  Power  triumphalism.  Today, 
there are those in the Assembly who hold a curious view 
of international law, as something that must be imposed 
against  others  but  which  has  limited  applicability 
to  themselves.  To  some  in  the  Assembly  it  seems 
appropriate  to  disregard  international  law  in  the  very 
enforcement of their distorted view of international law. 
Clearly,  such  conduct  is  unacceptable,  for  the  simple 
reason that it threatens the continued legitimacy of our 
entire multilateral system.
Small,  vulnerable  States,  by  definition  and 
necessity,  are  those  most  reliant  upon  an  enforceable 
body of equitable international law within an effective 
system  of  multilateral  diplomacy.  It  is  no  surprise, 
therefore, that small States like my own have emerged 
as some of the strongest defenders of multilateralism, 
sovereignty,  diplomacy  and  the  rule  of  law.  We  view 
it  as  our  responsibility  to  sound  the  alarm  when  this 
institution  threatens  to  depart  from  the  founding 
principles that bind us together.
According to basic reason and historical experience, 
no  nation  is  intrinsically  superior  to  another  and  no 
people are innately better than nothers. To be sure, there 
are cultural and social differences, but being different 
does  not  imply  a  condition  of  being  better  or  worse. 
One  nation  may  be  more  powerful  than  another,  but 
that circumstance should never permit the powerful to 
ascribe  arrogantly  to  themselves,  in  laughable  vanity, 
the  doctrine  of  exceptionalism.  Inevitably,  that  vain 
ascription  swiftly  degenerates  into  an  embrace  of  the 
damning path of the rightness of unilateral force, rather 
than an uplifting multilateral force of rightness.
Flagrant  examples  of  a  continuing  disregard  for 
international  law  abound.  Surely,  it  diminishes  a 
great  nation  such  as  the  United  States  of  America  to 
continue with what I consider to be a myopic vendetta 
against Cuba by way of an illegal, outdated and hurtful 
economic  blockade  and  the  absurd  declaration  that 
Cuba  is  a  sponsor  of  terrorism.  All  right-thinking 
persons across the world justly demand that the United 
States  end  the  economic  blockade  against  Cuba  and 
remove  its  name  from  the  unilaterally  drawn  up  list 
of  States  that  allegedly  sponsor  terrorism.  It  makes 
no sense whatsoever for international law to become a 
prisoner of domestic politics and the vain glories of a 
Great Power. 
Similarly,  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people  is 
being sacrificed on the altar of political expediency, with 
a disregard for the opinions of almost all of humankind. 
The issue certainly entails enormous complexities but, 
unless  it  is  resolved  satisfactorily,  sustainable  peace 
in  the  Middle  East  will  remain  unattainable.  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines hopes that current moves 
towards serious negotiations will bear fruit in line with 
the principles and mandates that have been spelled out 
repeatedly in various United Nations resolutions.
At the same time, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
is  very  impressed  by  the  efforts  of  the  President  of 
the  United  States  to  embrace  diplomacy  rather  than 
military intervention in pursuit of a political settlement 
in Syria. The Syrian community in my country, rightly 
and  anxiously,  looks  forward  to  peace  in  its  troubled 
homeland.  Only  the  extremists  will  benefit  from  a 
prolonged  civil  war.  Still,  peace  cannot  be  sought 
reasonably  when  a  precondition  of  regime  change 
is  advanced.  All  sides  in  the  conflict  must  make  real 
compromises in the interests of the Syrian people as a 
whole.
There  is  one  emerging  issue  of  consequence  that 
needs to be addressed. It concerns the deeply disturbing 
recent  reports  of  the  widespread  and  unrestrained 
spying that has allegedly been conducted by the United 
States  of  America  against  a  number  of  countries, 
including its staunchest allies. Indeed, there are reports 
that  the  practice  of  such  electronic  espionage  is  rife, 
even within the halls and offices of the United Nations. 
We strongly reject such activity as illegal, a violation 
of diplomatic conventions and an affront to the comity 
of nations. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines believes 
the  agenda  for  appropriate  corrective  action  in  that 
regard,  as  outlined  earlier  this  week  by  the  President 
of Brazil, to be fair, reasonable and achievable by the 
international community.
This  year, 
As we continue our collective journey in the quest 
for greater and lasting global peace, we are reminded 
that wars do not erupt only between countries, but also 
within  them.  We  also  know  that  some  of  the  highest 
numbers  of  violent  deaths  occur  in  countries  that  are 
apparently at peace. 
the 
international  community  has 
recognized that genuine and lasting peace between and 
within  nations,  cities  and  villages  cannot  occur  in  an 
environment that allows an unregulated trade in small 
arms and light weapons. The Arms Trade Treaty, which 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  signed  on  the  very 
first day that it opened for signature, is far weaker than 
we would have liked. Nonetheless, we consider it to be 
an important first step in regulating the illicit flow of 
13-48790
7/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
small arms and light weapons worldwide, particularly 
into  the  Caribbean  region,  where  the  tide  of  guns  is 
often  accompanied  by  torrents  of  narcotics  as  they 
make their way to markets in other countries.
rudderless  and 
I  am  deeply  disappointed  at  the  international 
community’s  endless, 
seemingly 
vacuous  negotiations  on  climate  change.  Our  failure 
to  achieve  meaningful  progress  on  this  matter  of 
existential urgency is inexcusable. Vulnerable countries 
like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are on the front 
line of climate change and are already bearing the brunt 
of the increasing fallout of global warming. Meanwhile, 
the major emitters and historical polluters pay callously 
insincere lip service to our plight. For them, combating 
climate  change  is  a  question  of  dollars  and  cents,  not 
life  and  death.  They  are  only  too  happy  to  see  the 
multilateral  process  fail,  so  that  they  can  retreat  into 
ineffectual  and  painless  national  commitments.  But 
those  stubborn  obstacles  to  progress  must  no  longer 
be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  way  of  the  survival  and 
development of vast swaths of our planet.
I  applaud  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General 
to convene a high-level event on climate change in the 
hope  that  such  a  meeting  will  give  our  meandering 
negotiations  impetus  and  direction.  The  post-2015 
development  agenda  will  not  survive  global  warming 
if  it  goes  unchecked.  It  is  also  high  time  for  genuine 
negotiations in good faith and for meaningful resources 
to  assist  in  mitigating  and  adapting  to  the  effects  of 
climate change.
In conclusion, I would like to recall that the Charter 
of the United Nations begins with the phrase “We the 
peoples of the United Nations.” It is not “We the rich 
peoples”,  nor  “We  the  militarily  powerful  peoples” 
nor  “We  the  peoples  of  large  countries”;  but  “We  the 
peoples” — of the entire world, the whole membership 
of  this  institution.  The  United  Nations  does  not  exist 
to confer benefits to select groups, but to secure peace 
and development for all. If we are to set the stage for 
the future of development, that stage must be inclusive 
so that all nations and peoples have a significant part to 
play and a stake in the outcomes. Let us make ourselves 
worthy successors of the ennobling, humanizing vision 
of our venerated founding fathers and mothers. 
I  shall  be  saying  this  ages  and  ages  hence:  two 
roads diverge in the woods, and I have chosen the one 
less travelled by, and that has made all the difference. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister of the Independent State  
of Samoa
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Malielegaoi  (Samoa):  I  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly. I also wish also to thank you for your 
continued  strong  support  for  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS)  issues,  which  you  have  championed  for 
many  years  and  have  once  again  demonstrated,  this 
week, in the process and lead-up to the United Nations 
Third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing States, to be held in the Pacific next year.
From  economic  woes  to  outright  poverty,  from 
social  instability  to  acts  of  violence  and  ethnic  or 
religious conflict, and from the devastation of natural 
disasters  to  deadly  acts  of  terrorism,  no  country  is 
spared  or  completely  shielded.  The  events  in  Kenya, 
Iraq, Pakistan and here in the United States over the past 
week demonstrate the multiple risks we face in today’s 
world.  Our  sympathies  go  to  the  Governments  and 
people of those countries, and our deepest condolences 
to the people who lost family and friends in those tragic 
events.
While the Organization continues to grapple with 
various serious problems that require collective, United 
Nations-led  action  for  their  resolution,  perhaps  the 
greatest threat we face today is climate change. Climate 
change is a security risk of far greater proportions than 
8/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
many people are prepared to admit. For some low-lying 
Pacific island countries, climate change may well lead 
to their eventual extinction as sovereign States. 
The  singular  importance  and  urgency  of  climate 
change to our region was given added prominence today 
when Pacific Forum leaders met with Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon. Our Chair, the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  presented  to  the  Secretary-
General the Majuro Declaration for Climate Leadership, 
which is an effort by our region — the most likely to be 
first and worst affected by climate change — to launch 
a new wave of more determined leadership across the 
globe, aimed at accelerating the reduction and phasing 
down of the world’s greenhouse-gas pollution before it 
is too late.
Mr. Touré (Guinea), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The root causes of climate change and the means for 
addressing them are widely known. We in the Pacific 
know already from bitter and harsh experience, as will 
many other parts of the world, what the consequences 
of climate change are, and they will only become more 
severe if not enough is done. 
Sadly, what is evident to us in the climate change 
negotiations is the continued triumph of vested interests 
in  preventing  and  delaying  the  action  that  should  be 
taken.  In  a  diverse  world  of  different  capacities  and 
capabilities,  those  least  able  to  mitigate  and  adapt  to 
the impacts of climate change look to Member States 
in leadership roles to rise to the challenge and lead by 
example,  to  ensure  that  the  post-2020  climate  change 
convention  currently  being  negotiated  will  effectively 
address  the  mounting  fears  of  countries  like  mine  of 
the  catastrophic  effects  of  climate  change  if  it  is  not 
tackled collectively and with determination. As world 
leaders, we have the responsibility for fashioning a new 
agreement that will reassure low-lying islands that we 
have their interests and priorities at heart. Let us rise to 
the occasion and be part of the solution.
In June, during the historic event of the signing of 
the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), Samoa announced that 
it  would  sign  the  Treaty  at  the  highest  political  level 
during  the  Treaty  event  at  the  General  Assembly’s 
current  session.  We  kept  that  promise,  and  I  signed 
for  Samoa  in  a  special  ceremony  two  days  ago.  We 
welcome the fact that more than 100 nations, including 
the United States, have now signed the Treaty. 
For  small  island  countries  like  Samoa,  it  takes 
only a few small arms and light weapons in the wrong 
hands  to  cause  instability.  Indeed,  within  our  own 
Pacific region, such so-called small arms have fuelled 
conflicts,  disrupted  the  lives  of  communities  and 
impeded  countries’  development.  The  Arms  Trade 
Treaty, when fully implemented, will greatly help small 
island  States  like  mine  in  their  efforts  to  sustain  our 
communities’ security and stability. Our signing of the 
ATT is also further testimony to our firm commitment 
to  general  and  complete  disarmament,  since  it  will 
contribute significantly to saving lives, stopping human 
rights abuses and avoiding crises, and is an important 
step in reducing and eventually eliminating altogether 
the human cost of conventional arms.
Samoa remains fully committed to the peacekeeping 
work of the United Nations, one of the Organization’s 
most effective and successful mandates. For more than 
10 years, Samoa has been contributing civilian police 
officers  to  peacekeeping  operations  in  countries  such 
as South Sudan, Timor-Leste, Liberia, the Sudan and, 
in  the  Pacific,  the  Regional  Assistance  Mission  to 
the  Solomon  Islands.  We  will  be  in  a  better  position 
to increase our contribution to peacekeeping missions 
after  a  United  Nations  selection,  assistance  and 
assessment team has completed its evaluation, which is 
planned to take place before the end of 2013, of eligible 
officers from our police force.
Samoa  looks  forward  to  next  week’s  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
International  migration  poses  both  challenges  and 
opportunities  for  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination. Its contribution to sustainable development 
will therefore ultimately depend upon the willingness 
of  source  and  destination  countries  to  work  out 
imaginative  and  humane  arrangements  that  benefit 
both  those  countries  and  migrants.  Samoa  is  working 
closely  with  New  Zealand  and  Australia,  through 
their  seasonal-worker  schemes,  to  ensure  that  those 
important  initiatives  result  in  mutual  benefit  for  both 
the sending and receiving parties in the arrangements.
Yesterday’s  High-level  Meeting  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament  (A/68/PV.11)  highlighted  yet  again  the 
urgent  need  for  a  treaty  banning  nuclear  weapons, 
given  the  catastrophic  humanitarian  consequences 
of  any  use  of  such  weapons.  Such  weapons  represent 
the  great  paradox  of  our  time.  While  nations  desire 
peace and talk of peace, far more of the national wealth 
goes towards the development and acquisition of ever 
more  sophisticated  and  destructive  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. Our Pacific region was the scene of a great 
13-48790
9/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
deal of nuclear testing, with some islands still bearing 
the scars of those tests. Our regional response was the 
South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty, the Rarotonga 
Treaty,  to  ensure  that  nuclear  testing  in  the  Pacific 
would be a thing of the past.
Samoa  reaffirms  its  continued  support  for  a 
nuclear-test-free  world.  Early  agreement  must  be 
reached to ban nuclear testing and to cease the creation 
and manufacture of more nuclear weapons.
We place great faith in the rule of law and the vital 
protection  it  offers  to  all  States,  especially  to  weak 
and small countries such as mine, with no armed force 
and  not  affiliated  with  any  military  grouping.  The 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  is  an  important 
part  of  the  architecture  of  world  peace  based  on  the 
rule of law, and we are pleased to have been the second 
State party to ratify the two Kampala amendments to 
the Rome Statute last year. With the deposit yesterday 
of  the  ninth  instrument  of  ratification,  we  hope  that 
the  Kampala  amendments  will  come  into  force  soon 
and that the ICC will become the first court since the 
international  military  tribunals  in  Nuremburg  and 
Tokyo  to  hold  individuals  responsible  for  crimes  of 
aggression.
The United Nations needs to adapt to the changing 
contemporary international environment or risk being 
bypassed  in  favour  of  institutions  and  groupings  that 
are more responsive to the needs of Member States. The 
High-level Political Forum is one such welcome reform, 
and  Samoa  is  very  pleased  to  have  participated  in  its 
inaugural meeting this week.
Still more fundamental reform is required to address 
the existing imbalances in the current power structure 
of  the  Security  Council  through  the  enlargement  of 
both  categories  of  membership  and  improvements  to 
its  working  methods,  so  as  to  reflect  the  realities  of 
the present time and to enhance the Council’s role and 
effectiveness.
The  renewed  efforts  made  and  great  courage 
shown  in  the  process  of  restarting  the  stalled  Middle 
East peace plan for the Israeli and Palestinian peoples 
has  our  strongest  endorsement.  It  gives  rise  to  hope 
that  the  two-State  solution,  which  is  the  only  option 
with  realistic  prospects  for  lasting  peace,  can  still  be 
achieved.
The  number  of  areas  of  tension  and  trouble 
spots  around  the  globe  is  increasing,  and  they  are 
getting  deadlier.  The  availability  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction and, now, their use in Syria is unnerving. 
The  untold  suffering  brought  about  by  the  Syrian 
crisis has touched many hearts, and the latest episode, 
where we watched in utter disbelief the use of chemical 
weapons  to  kill  indiscriminately  defenceless  victims 
and even children, is incomprehensible.
We  therefore  welcome  the  joint  proposal  by  the 
United  States  and  Russia  and  the  willingness  of 
Syria  to  have  its  chemical  weapons  destroyed  under 
the  competent  United  Nations  authority.  We  expect 
total  compliance,  which  is  required  for  this  initiative 
to  succeed.  As  long  as  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
such  as  chemical  weapons  continue  to  exist,  some 
megalomaniac will sooner or later resort to their use, 
with deadly consequences for the world. The ultimate 
safeguard  is,  of  course,  the  destruction  of  all  such 
weapons, whether chemical, biological or nuclear.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development called for the convening in 2014 of a Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, to remind the international community that small 
island developing States (SIDS) face unique challenges 
and vulnerabilities requiring dedicated support and to 
help build their resilience.
Samoa  is  honoured  to  host  that  Conference  in 
September 2014, on behalf of the Pacific small island 
developing  countries.  The  Barbados 
interregional 
meeting  endorsed  “The  sustainable  development  of 
small  island  developing  States  through  genuine  and 
durable partnerships” as the overarching theme of the 
Conference.  A  renewed  global  partnership  will  help 
SIDS to manage a multitude of risks, so that they can 
pursue inclusive economic growth, social development 
and environmental sustainability.
Samoa has also proposed to utilize the Conference 
as  a  platform  to  launch  specific,  concrete  SIDS 
partnerships as the most effective means to implement 
some of the group’s challenges and as a legacy of the 
Conference.
In  advancing 
the  SIDS  development  agenda, 
the  Samoa  Conference  strategically  provides  a 
window  for  SIDS  as  a  group  to  agree  on  their 
priorities  and  to  consolidate  their  positions  ahead  of 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s leaders’ summit on 
climate  change  in  2014,  the  post-2015  United  Nations 
development  agenda  now  under  discussion,  and  the 
negotiations for a successor climate-change treaty post-
2020, which are in progress.
10/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
Let  me  conclude  by  conveying  our  gratitude  to 
all  our  partners  —  developed  and  developing,  big 
and 
small,  Governments  and  non-governmental 
organizations, civil society and the private sector — for 
their dedicated support, which has helped my country 
to  reach  a  new  threshold  in  its  journey  as  a  State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  new  status  as  a 
non-least developed country beyond January 2014 can 
be  sustained  only  with  the  support  of  Samoa’s  truly 
genuine and durable partners.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the Independent State of Samoa for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent State of Samoa, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of 
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh 
Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
Bangladesh,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English text provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
President  Ashe  very  warmly  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session. I congratulate also Mr. Vuk Jeremić for his able 
leadership as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-seventh session. I admire the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his wisdom, bold initiatives and 
successes as head of the United Nations.
Rapid  technological  innovations  are  transforming 
our world. The changes involved are also creating new 
conflicts within and among States. The vulnerable, the 
deprived  and  the  disadvantaged  have  been  the  most 
affected. That reminds me of my father and the Father 
of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 
and his visionary call, in his first appearance before the 
General Assembly, in 1974, for a world order based on 
peace and justice and a global economic arrangement to 
free the world of poverty, hunger and aggression. As his 
daughter, I am proud to have been among leaders who 
adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration  in  2000,  to  have 
been  at  the  review  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  in  2010  and  to  be  participating  now 
in  the  transition  from  the  MDGs  to  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
I  hope  that  this  year’s  theme  —  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage” — will help us 
to design a pragmatic strategy for those goals. The Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  the  newly  established  High-level  Political  Forum 
are  making  good  progress.  Our  experience  also  will 
be  useful  in  overcoming  the  challenges  to  the  MDGs 
by  2015  and  in  preparing  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
Bangladesh  has  submitted  to  the  United  Nations 
a  draft  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  that 
covers socioeconomic and environmental goals and the 
resources required for achieving them. We also held a 
Global  Leadership  Meeting  on  Population  Dynamics 
in Dhaka, whose declaration placed human individuals 
at  the  centre  of  the  entire  development  agenda.  The 
declaration  incorporated  population  growth,  ageing, 
urbanization  and  migration  as  the  priority  issues. 
The  meeting  also  strongly  identified  the  need  for 
mainstreaming migration in the post-2015 development 
agenda,  particularly  to  accommodate  the  expected 
climate migrants.
Our  aim  is  to  become  a  middle-income  country 
and  to  realize  our  Vision  2021  by  setting  goals  that 
are  in  line  with  the  MDGs.  We  have  already  met  or 
are  on  track  to  meet  Millennium  Development  Goals 
1  through  6.  Poverty  has  been  reduced  from  56.6  per 
cent in 1991 to below 26 per cent today. In the past four 
and  a  half  years,  the  average  gross  domestic  product 
growth rate remained at 6.4 per cent; 50 million people 
have joined the middle income group; export earnings 
rose  from  $10.53  billion  in  2006  to  $27.03  billion 
today;  remittances  increased  from  $5  billion  in  2006 
to  $14.5  billion;  foreign  currency  reserves  improved 
from  $3.49  billion  in  2006  to  $16  billion;  and  power 
production  capacity  also 
from  3,200 
megawatts in 2006 to 9,059 megawatts today, to name 
a few indicators.
increased 
13-48790
11/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
Bangladesh  is  therefore  often  called  a  model  of 
economic  development  and  the  standard-bearer  of 
South Asia. Our achievements received an MDG award, 
a  South-South  Award,  a  Global  Diversity  Award  and 
a food award for 2013 from the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations. Those recognitions 
were  achieved  largely  due  to  the  practice  of  the 
principles  found  in  the  resolution  entitled  “People’s 
empowerment  and  development”  (resolution  67/107), 
which  I  submitted  and  which  the  General  Assembly 
adopted at its sixty-seventh session. 
Using  state-of-the-art  digital  technology,  people 
today  are  getting  more  than  200  services  from  4,582 
digitized  Union  Information  and  Service  Centres. 
Rural  women  are  also  receiving  health-care  services 
from 15,500 digitally interconnected community health 
clinics and union health centres, which have extended 
health-care  services  to  people’s  doorsteps.  Advanced 
cell phone technologies are also providing services to 
more than 100 million subscribers.
I believe that real national development is achievable 
only through education. Education is the main driving 
force for attaining the peace and prosperity of a nation 
and  for  upholding  justice,  the  rule  of  law,  democratic 
values  and  people’s  empowerment.  Real  development 
also  demands  the  empowerment  of  women  and  their 
equal participation with men in all walks of life. 
Our  new  educational  policy  provides  girls  free 
education  up  to  higher  secondary  school,  monthly 
stipends for 11.9 million students of poor families, and 
free textbooks to all students up to the secondary level. 
Our policies have also helped develop women leaders 
from  the  grass  roots  to  the  topmost  level.  In  politics, 
so  far,  14,000  women  have  been  elected  to  local 
Government bodies and 70 to Parliament. Five women 
are serving as Ministers and one as Whip. Bangladesh 
is possibly the only nation today with women occupying 
the position of Prime Minister, Speaker, Leader of the 
Opposition  and  Deputy  Leader,  all  at  the  same  time. 
The 10 per cent of posts reserved for women have helped 
many succeed in reaching high positions in the judicial 
and administrative branches, in diplomatic posts and in 
the armed forces and law enforcement agencies.
Our policies of empowering the people, particularly 
the  vulnerable,  include  social  safety-net  programmes, 
such  as  vulnerable  group  feeding  and  development; 
housing  and  livelihood  for  the  homeless;  monthly 
pensions for senior citizens, widows, destitute women, 
insolvent freedom fighters and people with disabilities; 
maternity  allowances  for  a 
total  of  4.3  million 
people; and food and nutrition security for more than 
1 million rural people through One House, One Farm 
schemes,  to  name  a  few.  The  disadvantaged  and  the 
physically  challenged  are  provided  with  education, 
skill  development  and  interest-free  loans  for  self-
employment and, in the formal sector, a 1 per cent quota 
has been reserved for them. For those with autism and 
other  developmental  disorders,  a  resolution  on  autism 
spectrum  disorder  was  introduced  by  Bangladesh  at 
the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
(resolution 67/82). It was adopted, unifying us all in our 
quest to provide them their rightful place in the world.
However,  our  progress  in  all  spheres  has  been 
sadly  held  back  because  of  climate  change.  Fraught 
with  increasing  natural  disasters,  Bangladesh  faces 
a  calamitous  future  due  to  global  warming  and  sea 
level rise. It is estimated that a 1˚ Celsius increase in 
temperature  would  lead  to  a  1  metre  rise  of  the  sea 
level, submerging one fifth of Bangladesh and forcing 
30  million  climate  migrants  to  move  elsewhere, 
thereby  creating  crisis  of  a  huge  magnitude  within 
and  beyond  our  borders.  I  therefore  reiterate  the  call 
that  I  made  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly (see A/64/PV.4) for a legal regime to ensure 
the  social,  cultural  and  economic  rehabilitation  of 
climate migrants. I again call for a fast-track funding 
mechanism  for  least  developed  countries  to  ensure 
sustained funding for the realization of our adaptation 
and mitigation action plans on climate change.
Bangladesh  achieved 
independence 
to  preserve  our  mother 
in  1971 
through  monumental  sacrifices.  Our  sacrifice  began 
with  bloodshed 
tongue, 
Bangla,  on  21  February  1952.  At  my  Government’s 
initiative,  UNESCO  immortalized  that  sacrifice  in 
1999 by UNESCO by its declaration of 21 February as 
International Mother Language Day. The measures we 
have taken so far in that regard include the establishment 
of the International Mother Language Institute in Dhaka 
and asking the United Nations to declare Bangla as one 
of its official languages. I thank the United Nations for 
introducing  a  Bangla  website  and  radio  programme, 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  for 
publishing its Asian report in Bangla. 
During  our  1971  war  of  liberation,  Pakistani 
occupation  forces  —  in  collaboration  with  their  local 
cohorts  —  perpetrated  genocide,  rape,  arson  and 
crimes  against  humanity.  More  than  3  million  people 
sacrificed their lives and a quarter of a million women 
12/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
lost their honour to achieve independence. Since then, 
it has been the ardent hope and aspiration of the nation 
to  bring  the  perpetrators  to  justice.  Accordingly,  our 
Government  constituted  two  war  crimes  tribunals 
under  the  international  crimes  tribunals  act  of  1973 
to try them. The trials are being held with the highest 
standards  of 
judicial  practices.  The  successful 
completion  of  the  trials  would  heal  the  wounds  of 
war and move Bangladesh on to the road of peace and 
progress. I urge the international community to support 
the trials process for the sake of justice, human rights 
and the rule of law. 
The anti-liberation forces have always been working 
to destroy the secular nature of our nation. Under the 
direct  patronage  of  the  Bangladesh  Nationalist  Party-
Jamaat  alliance  Government  from  2001  to  2006,  they 
coalesced  to  form  terrorist  outfits,  which  began  with 
bomb  and  grenade  attacks  killing  people,  especially 
secular 
leaders  and  members  of  Parliament.  On 
21  August  2004,  they  made  an  attempt  to  assassinate 
me by lobbing 13 grenades at a public rally that I was 
addressing to protest the grenade attack on the British 
High  Commissioner  on  21  May  2004.  In  that  attack, 
24  people  were  killed  and  more  than  500  injured. 
Miraculously, I survived. As members are aware, earlier 
a  more  brutal  attack  was  carried  out,  on  15  August 
1975, killing my father, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur 
Rahman, the Father of the Nation, and 18 members of 
my  family.  My  younger  sister,  Sheikh  Rehana,  and  I 
survived  only  because  we  were  out  of  the  country  at 
that time. The gruesome attacks cemented my resolve 
to eliminate terrorism and to adopt tough anti-terrorism 
and anti-money-laundering acts. 
At home, our Government is entrenching democracy 
in order to ideologically defeat terrorism and extremism. 
Our commissions on elections, anti-corruption, human 
rights and information have been strengthened. During 
our Government’s tenure, the elections commission has 
conducted  5,777  elections,  electing  63,995  persons  to 
the  Parliament,  city  corporations,  municipalities  and 
other  local  bodies,  without  receiving  any  complaint. 
The elections commission has therefore amply proven 
that it can hold free, fair and credible national elections. 
With respect to foreign affairs, we aim to cement 
peace  by  resolving  outstanding 
issues  with  our 
neighbours,  by  increasing  cooperation  with  them 
through strengthening connectivity and by maintaining 
good relations with all countries of the world according 
to the dictum of the Father of the Nation, “Friendship 
towards all, malice towards none”.
Our  commitment  to  global  peace  is  proved  by 
our  role  as  a  top  troop-contributor  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  as  a  Vice-Chair  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  It  is  also  reflected  by 
our  position  on  disarmament  and  the  nonproliferation 
agenda. During my first term as Prime Minister, from 
1996 to 2001, Bangladesh became the first South Asian 
nation  to  ratify  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  and  the  Anti-Personnel  Mine  Ban  Convention. 
In my current term, I am happy to again be the first in 
the region to have signed the Arms Trade Treaty, and 
to  have  acceded  to  the  remaining  instruments  of  the 
Convention  on  Certain  Conventional  Weapons  at  this 
year’s  treaty-signing  event.  Our  role  in  world  affairs 
is  based  on  justice  and  democratic  values,  with  the 
aim  of  ensuring  international  peace  and  security  and 
supporting disarmament. 
The promotion of cultural expression and interfaith 
and  intercultural  dialogue  is  essential  for  peace  and 
development in the post-2015 era. My personal initiatives 
to  disseminate  those  values  at  home  and  abroad  were 
recognized by UNESCO in 2012, when we were awarded 
the Cultural Diversity Medal. Culture is integral to the 
identity of every State Member of the United Nations. 
Therefore, my country has proposed — to UNESCO and 
in the General Assembly’s thematic debate on culture 
and development — including culture as a theme of the 
post-2015 development agenda. I reiterate that call here 
today and request the support of all present.
Bangladesh  is  hampered  by  resource  constraints 
and  inadequate  external  assistance.  To  achieve  the 
MDGs  by  2015  and  to  implement  the  post-2015 
development goals, we need our development partners 
to  honour  their  pledges  to  contribute  0.7  per  cent  of 
gross  national  product  (GNP)  as  official  development 
assistance (ODA) and 0.2 per cent of GNP as ODA to 
the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs).  I  urge  them  to 
also  grant  LDCs  duty-free  and  quota-free  access  to 
their markets, as well as an equal voice in the Bretton 
Woods  and  international  financial  institutions  and 
the  free  movement  of  labour.  The  implementation  of  
part IV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 
is  also  essential  for  the  benefit  of  both  sending  and 
receiving countries.
The  elaboration  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda is a daunting task for all States Members of the 
13-48790
13/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
United  Nations.  We  must  be  united  in  agreeing  on  a 
common  framework  for  the  development  agenda  that 
would fulfil our aspiration to build a just, prosperous 
and  sustainable  world  where  no  person  or  nation  is 
left  behind.  Bangladesh,  representing  160  million 
progressive and resilient people, will lead those efforts 
up front.
President Ashe on his election and wishing him great 
success  in  presiding  over  the  General  Assembly.  I 
would also like to congratulate the outgoing President, 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić, on his successful presidency. I also 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  in 
strengthening the United Nations ability to respond to 
today’s and tomorrow’s challenges.
The  globalized  world  has  unique  complexities 
that  sometimes  threaten  peace.  Justice-based  policies 
are  imperative  to  eradicate  such  threats.  Justice  is 
the  panacea  for  peace  that  enables  development  and 
progress, which in turn dispel the challenges posed to 
freedom,  democracy,  human  rights,  the  environment 
and  the  equitable  sharing  of  transboundary  resources 
such as water, among others, as well as the challenges 
posed by climate change. 
Our resolution on the culture of peace, introduced 
at the Assembly every year, is drafted in that spirit and 
is always adopted by consensus. It conveys the message 
of  mutual  respect  for  peoples  and  nations  in  our  bid 
for a world of peace and promise. I believe that we all 
aspire to such a world for our future generations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the 
statement she has just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nikola Gruevski, Prime 
Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic  
of Macedonia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, Prime Minister of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nikola 
Gruevski,  Prime  Minister  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Gruevski  (former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia) (spoke in Macedonian; English text provided 
by the delegation): Allow me to begin by congratulating 
and 
regional  organizations, 
Each  year  in  September,  world  leaders  gather  in 
New York to develop joint responses to challenges. That 
is  a  great  challenge  for  all  —  national  Governments, 
international 
civil 
society  and  the  private  sector.  We  share  the  primary 
responsibility  for  a  peaceful  and  secure  world  that 
ensures the rights and interests of individuals, nations 
and  countries  within  the  framework  of  the  rule  of 
national  and  international  law.  That  was  also  the 
objective  when  the  United  Nations  was  established 
following the Second World War.
We thank the President and the Secretary-General 
for  their  engagement  and  leadership  in  the  work  to 
establish  the  new  post-2015  development  framework, 
building  upon  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to 
include an economic, social and ecological dimension 
of  sustainable  development.  What  is  important  for 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  —  an  ambitious 
and  complex  project  —  is  the  building  of  a  global 
partnership  among  Governments,  the  private  sector, 
civil society and individuals, including the mobilization 
of institutional and human resources. 
The environment must be a key building block of 
sustainable  development:  it  is  nature  that  sustains  us, 
and  its  resources  should  be  used  wisely.  Economic 
growth facilitates human growth, reduces poverty and 
facilitates better education and health care and is thus 
a crucial element of any development framework. The 
Republic  of  Macedonia  will  fully  contribute  to  the 
achievement of all global objectives through its national 
agenda,  in  which  investment  in  education,  health, 
agriculture and food, the environment and infrastructure 
and  the  partnership  between  the  Government  and  the 
business community are the highest priorities.
Peace,  conflict  resolution  and  human  rights 
protection  are  United  Nations  goals.  Today  they 
represent an even a greater challenge, which we should 
respond to and overcome. The Republic of Macedonia 
supports  the  approach  of  the  United  Nations  in 
responding to those challenges. We actively contribute 
to  the  promotion  of  peace  on  an  international  level, 
14/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
participating  in  international  missions  that  safeguard 
freedom and democracy.
It is difficult, I would say even impossible, for someone 
to find a legal justification for such an objection.
With regard to one of the major issues — the crisis 
in Syria and the internal conflict that has created more 
than  100,000  victims  and  2  million  refugees  —  what 
is more troubling is that chemical weapons were used 
against  the  Syrian  people  while  diplomatic  efforts 
were  under  way,  although  their  use  is  strictly  prohibited 
under international law. That must not be tolerated. We 
are  among  the  countries  to  have  asked  for  an  urgent 
investigation  under  the  auspices  of  the  Secretary-
General’s mechanism for the investigation of the alleged 
use of chemical and biological weapons. 
Despite  differing  views,  all  member  States  of 
the Security Council and of the United Nations agree 
that  to  achieve  a  final  resolution  of  the  Syrian  crisis, 
the  political  approach  should  be  given  a  chance.  It 
is  therefore  essential  to  focus  maximum  effort  on 
revitalizing the search for a political settlement and to 
convene the “Geneva II” conference as soon as possible. 
The Syrian people deserve better days through decisive 
action by the international community that will end the 
violence and threats.
The  region  of  South-East  Europe  has  entered  a 
phase  of  positive  development,  and  in  general  the 
national  and  regional  primary  objectives  are  either 
fulfilled  or  are  within  reach.  Regional  cooperation 
is expanding in a number of new fields. Despite such 
advances,  certain  long-standing  unresolved  or  partly 
resolved  bilateral  issues  are  clearly  having  a  negative 
impact  on  our  present  and  immediate  future.  In  the 
case of the Republic of Macedonia, that happens to be 
a  serious  obstacle  to  our  agenda  for  integration  into 
international organizations.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  celebrating  the 
twentieth anniversary of its United Nations membership 
with the still unresolved issues of the use of the name 
of my country, the Republic of Macedonia, and of the 
identity of my people, the Macedonian identity. Those 
questions emerged because of a dispute raised by our 
southern neighbour Greece, which opposes our name, 
which  is  our  fundamental  individual  and  collective 
right.  The  issue,  which  should  have  been  promptly 
resolved among neighbours, partners and future allies, 
has  lasted  for  22  years.  While  being  a  very  realistic 
problem  for  my  people,  this  is  an  issue  that  I  deeply 
believe is essentially hypothetical and does not have any 
basis in international law or in the United Nations acts. 
The fact that the overwhelming majority of countries 
have recognized our constitutional name — the Republic 
of  Macedonia  —  with  more  than  135  of  them  being 
United  Nations  Members,  clearly  shows  that  most  of 
countries do not believe that the dispute has a justified 
basis, or if it does they denounce it. I believe that this 
issue was a created one, a classic case of politicization 
and an instrument that, approximately 20 years ago, was 
either supposed to make someone score some political 
points  or,  by  creating  an  atmosphere  of  conflict,  to 
bring about some strategic regional shifts, as well as to 
slow down the spread of freedom, democracy and the 
introduction of market economies in the Balkans.
At the last session, the General Assembly discussed 
the  rule  of  law,  with  all  Member  States  unanimously 
agreeing that respect for internationally agreed norms 
and principles was a must. Unfortunately, norms are not 
always adhered to. The United Nations must be neither 
idle in that regard nor renege from its responsibility to 
counter any disrespect for the rule of law.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  became  a  United 
Nations Member in 1993 with an atypical membership 
condition, namely, the denial of its constitutional name. 
It was admitted with an interim country reference — an 
unprecedented event in history that was contrary to the 
provisions of international law. But we have endured all 
that, although it lingers to date as a problem.
In  1995,  under  United  Nations  mediation,  we 
signed  an  interim  accord  with  Greece  by  which  we 
changed our flag and parts of our Constitution, while 
Greece undertook not to create obstacles to our NATO 
accession  in  2008.  Not  only  did  Greece  obstruct  our 
act  of  accession  to  the  international  Organization 
itself, it also obstructed the processes for opening the 
membership  procedures  in  another  organization.  For 
four  years  in  a  row,  Greece  has  prevented  the  start 
of  negotiations  for  our  membership  in  the  European 
Union. 
On 
the 
obstructions  of  Greece  with  regard  to  our  application 
for  membership,  in  2011  the  International  Court  of 
Justice\  —    a  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
established  by  States  Members  and  located  at  The 
Hague — issued a judgment that Greece had violated 
international law by not adhering to the interim accord 
and  that  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  had  not  violated 
the  basis  of  our  appeal  concerning 
13-48790
15/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
international law or the commitments it had agreed to. 
However, we were hindered again, notwithstanding the 
decision  of  the  highest  body  of  justice  in  the  world, 
and  that  is  apparent  to  the  Assembly  and  its  member 
countries.
The  United  Nations  was  established  in  order  to 
protect  international  law.  There  is  no  regulation  of 
international law that restricts a country from calling 
itself  as  it  wishes,  or  restricts  its  citizens  from  being 
able  to  be  called  and  named  as  they  wish.  Naming  is 
one  of  the  five  prerogatives  of  States,  as  well  as  an 
undisputed right of every Member country.
Why  do  we  need  international  law  if  we  do  not 
adhere  to  it?  If  we  turn  a  blind  eye  to  that  injustice 
and obvious violation of international law, we will be 
directly responsible for breaking one of the principles of 
world peace and of the United Nations. We do not want 
that, nor can we allow it. If it were not for international 
law, anarchy would reign and the United Nations would 
become a debate club without any basic competencies. 
We do not want to participate in that, at the expense of 
everything, even to our own detriment.
Not respecting international law also means having 
no respect for the 50 million victims that fought for it 
70 years ago, as well as going against the decisions of 
our predecessors — the founders of the Organization. 
International law should not be a platitude, but rather 
should provide a solution to every challenge.
According  to  international  law,  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia is entitled to decide on its own name and to 
use the word Macedonian to denote its ethnic identity. 
Settling our differences with our southern neighbour is 
our priority, but only and precisely within the United 
Nations  resolutions  that  define  the  solution  that  is 
the  subject  of  discussion,  and  by  reaching  a  mutually 
acceptable solution. We should settle our differences in 
no other way, especially not by expanding those limits.
Sixty-six years after the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  this  dispute,  unjustly 
imposed  on  us  by  Greece,  violates  one  of 
the 
fundamental  rights  of  the  individual  —  the  right  to 
decide  one’s  own  name.  Every  representative  of  my 
people is denied the right to be called as they wish, as 
their  mothers  and  fathers,  grandparents  and  all  other 
ancestors throughout history were called: Macedonian. 
In addition to disputing the constitutional name of 
my  country —  the  Republic  of  Macedonia —  Greece 
also  disputes  the  identity  of  my  citizens,  that  is,  it 
does  not  allow  them  to  be  called  Macedonians  or  the 
language that they speak to be called the Macedonian 
language,  despite  the  fact  that  for  more  than  half  a 
century  there  have  been  departments  in  universities 
throughout the world where the Macedonian language 
has been studied and it has been called the Macedonian 
language.  It  is  the  same  as  if  somebody  denied  an 
individual  the  right  to  speak  French,  German,  Polish, 
English,  Dutch,  Portuguese,  Japanese,  Hindi  or  any 
other language. 
The United Nations must not overlook the violation 
of the basic human right to decide one’s own name, and 
should take action to enable the exercise of that right. 
In this particular case, the United Nations should take 
action that will lead to the settlement of the outstanding 
issues that Greece has with us.
At  the  previous  session,  we  debated  preventive 
diplomacy and concluded that it should be an essential 
element of the international community. Therefore, the 
United  Nations  must  not,  and  should  not,  stand  aside 
in  this  process,  which  severely  hinders  Macedonia’s 
aspirations to a better future for its citizens. 
Commitment  is  necessary  to  make  it  possible  for 
Greece to begin resolving this issue, because in the past 
two years there has been great inertness on the part of 
Greece.  Although  that  is  a  result  of  objective  reasons 
caused by its adverse economic situation, it also entails 
a  strategic  and  tactical  political  element  based  on  the 
analysis  that  prolonging  the  process  of  solving  the 
dispute would contribute to the Republic of Macedonia 
being  isolated  in  its  positions,  which  are  based  on 
international law and values, and to its resignation to a 
kind of self-annihilation of the State and the nation by 
agreeing to be renamed. 
the 
According  to  that  line  of  thinking,  with  the  lack 
of  commitment  in  the  discussions  and  the  blocking 
of  European  and  Euro-Atlantic  integration  that  my 
country  faces  —  integration  that  is  directly  hindered 
by  the  dispute  despite  our  having  met  the  standards 
required  of  us  by 
international  multilateral 
organizations,  NATO  and  the  European  Union  —  we 
would  thus  be  prevented  from  joining  and  face  the 
possibility  of  internal  misunderstandings  regarding 
the  hindrance  caused  by  our  southern  neighbour,  and 
we  would  drop  our  guard  in  spite  of  the  force  of  the 
arguments,  which  are  on  our  side.  It  is  true  that  by 
putting off the solution of the dispute, more challenges 
in the country and the region are created, and the tension 
becomes greater at certain moments. But it should be 
16/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
clear  to  everyone  that  such  challenges  should  not  be 
considered  a  trigger  for  any  changes  of  our  justified 
and internationally correct position that would lead to a 
change in our Macedonian identity. 
It  is  not  possible  to  change  something  that  has 
existed for centuries by imposing blockages or by threats 
about  possible  misunderstandings,  tensions  or  unrest, 
not  even  by  implementing  them.  The  Macedonian 
people  will  never  accept  being  renamed.  If  it  is  not 
possible for that issue to be resolved now — although 
we are the ones who are most interested in its resolution 
and  we  sincerely  wish  for  a  sustainable,  balanced 
and,  most  important,  mutually  acceptable  solution  to 
be  found  —  then  some  other  generation  in  different 
circumstances will be able to resolve it, but precisely 
on  the  basis  of  the  values,  positions  and  principles 
that I mentioned before, which indicate a just and fair 
solution, without winners and losers. 
However,  I  personally  believe  that  we  must  not 
leave  those  thorny  issues  to  future  generations.  We 
must try to find a solution and find strength to provide 
prosperity  for  the  countries  and  the  region.  It  is  said 
that actions speak solely of those who undertake them. 
Faced with the lack of interest by the Hellenic Republic 
in  substantive  talks  for  a  solution  to  the  dispute,  two 
months ago I suggested to the Greek Prime Minister a 
change in the format of discussions, that is, raising them 
to a much higher political level. I as a Macedonian and 
he as a Greek Prime Minister, together with ministers 
from both Governments, would meet directly and talk 
about a solution. That would lead to greater efficiency, 
because we are the ones most often called upon to solve 
the issue. Twenty-two years is too much time to not get 
anywhere  and  is  sufficient  proof  that  there  must  be  a 
change in the game. 
Our  mandate,  entrusted  to  us  by  the  citizens, 
should be essential to achieving a mutually acceptable 
solution  —  which  I  believe  can  be  attained  —  a 
solution that will be accepted and agreed upon by the 
citizens of our countries. The examples of Serbia and 
Kosovo, as well as those of Croatia and Slovenia, where 
political  representatives  at  the  highest  level  managed 
to overcome challenges, are the best proof that results 
can be achieved in that way. I invite the Assembly to 
directly  take  part  in  the  realization  of  this  initiative, 
overcome the standstill and, through its commitment, 
provide  intensity  and  forward  movement,  as  well  as 
greater interest on the part of Greece in a solution and 
progress. 
Actions  speak  of  the  one  who  undertakes  them. 
With our openness and with our justified initiative, we 
are  showing  that  we  wish  for  a  solution  to  be  found. 
However, our meetings must not be purely a formality; 
rather,  they  must  have  substance  and  must  not  create 
an alibi for not finding a solution. I am convinced that 
only  a  substantial  commitment  by  the  international 
community, above all by the United Nations, will lead to 
a solution, taking into consideration the basic documents 
of  the  United  Nations  on  the  rights  of  countries  and 
individuals, the United Nations resolutions that defined 
the talks, agreements guaranteed by the United Nations, 
the decisions of United Nations bodies and international 
law as a whole.
However,  if  there  is  no  progress,  the  United 
Nations must not remain inactive and be satisfied with 
the  status  quo,  as  that  would  mean  showing  further 
irresponsibility.  Aware  of  this  already  discouraging 
situation,  the  United  Nations  should  help  via  its 
organs, through the General Assembly and the Security 
Council. It is on the basis of Security Council resolution 
817 (1993) that we are in discussions with our neighbour 
to arrive at a solution that will free the identity of my 
country.  Otherwise,  the  United  Nations  will  be  faced 
with failure again and will bear the responsibility for 
not having acted in accordance with its own principles 
and values. 
I  do  not  want  to  spare  anyone.  We  all  have 
responsibility,  including  the  Organization.  Instead 
of  assuming  that  responsibility,  the  Organization 
has  accepted  the  comfort  of  remaining  silent  and  not 
resolving the dispute; instead of defending itself, it has 
remained inactive with regard to the status quo, which 
is  obviously  creating  problems  and  challenges  for  the 
region. It should start considering alternative scenarios 
and  doing  more  to  stimulate  a  solution  to  this  long-
standing dispute.
I am confident that we have the capacity to jointly 
respond  to  the  challenges.  In  the  name  of  the  people 
that we represent, we must assume responsibility for the 
present  and  the  future.  Assuming  such  responsibility 
means taking decisions, changing habits and reinforcing 
cooperation and prosperity, but it is something that can 
be done. That is the responsible way to proceed.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
for the statement he has just made.
13-48790
17/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, Prime Minister of the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  Mr.  Pasquale  Valentini,  Minister  for  Foreign 
and  Political  Affairs,  Tourism  and  Relations  with  the 
Public  Utilities  State  Corporation  of  the  Republic  of 
San Marino.
Mr.  Valentini  (San  Marino)  (spoke  in  Italian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
the Government of San Marino, I wish to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his  election  as 
President of the of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session. His long experience as Ambassador of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  his  in-depth  knowledge  of 
the Organization are precious resources for the United 
Nations.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino  supports  the 
essential elements of his programme, mentioned in his 
inaugural address (see A/68/PV.1), and ensures its full 
cooperation in all work of the General Assembly. 
My country also wishes to express special thanks to 
His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
energy,  commitment  and  extraordinary  determination 
to  the  benefit  of  the  United  Nations.  We  appreciate 
the sensitivity demonstrated by the Secretary-General 
towards  all  Member  States,  without  distinction,  and 
his  constant  presence  in  all  international  politically 
relevant  and  emergency  situations.  His  visit  this  year 
to  our  Republic  on  the  occasion  of  the  Investiture 
Ceremony  of  Their  Excellencies  the  Captains  Regent 
marked a significant moment in the history and public 
life of our small State, and was an honour for the San 
Marino people.
The theme chosen this year’s session — “The post-
2015 development agenda: setting the stage” — places 
at  the  heart  of  our  debate  the  need  to  pursue  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  comply  with 
the  obligations  undertaken.  It  also  serves  to  reaffirm 
that it is only through the determined commitment of 
the  Organization  that  those  Goals  can  be  effectively 
achieved.
We believe that significant progress has been made 
in achieving many of the Goals, such as the eradication 
of  extreme  poverty,  access 
to  drinkable  water, 
combatting HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, and 
the  improvement  of  the  health  conditions  of  women 
and children. However, we are well aware that the full 
achievement of those objectives is still far off. Despite 
the progress made, we are deeply concerned for regions 
in the world, such as sub-Saharan Africa, that require 
urgent and effective action, as well as for those countries 
experiencing  conflicts  and  post-conflict  situations 
where the population lives in extreme conditions.
San Marino, like many other countries, believes that 
in setting the fundamental objectives of the post-2015 
agenda,  due  account  must  be  taken  of  the  challenges 
that in the course of the past years — that is, since the 
adoption of the Millennium Declaration — have become 
more urgent. Among the challenges, peace and security, 
the  elimination  of  inequalities  and  environmental 
sustainability are, in our view, top priorities, not only 
among  States  but  also  within  States,  owing  to  their 
magnitude and urgent nature.
Peace  is  the  indispensable  condition  for  building 
and  fully  implementing  a  development  model  centred 
on  the  human  individual.  Therefore,  dialogue  and 
negotiation,  as  tools  to  resolve  conflicts,  should  be 
pursued  with  greater  effort  and  determination  by  the 
entire  international  community,  which  considers  this 
search to be a fundamental mission of the Organization.
Similarly,  when  crimes  against  humanity  are 
committed  —  crimes  that  the  Secretary-General  has 
recently  denounced  and  documented,  after  a  strong 
condemnation  —  united  action  to  eliminate  chemical 
and  nuclear  weapons  is  needed  in  order  to  avoid 
responding to violence with violence. Too many violent 
conflicts have recently defined the internal life of some 
States and the relations among them. There are far too 
many dead, in particular civilians, to talk of satisfactory 
conditions  of  peace.  But  peace  can  be  founded  only 
on  respect  for  human  rights,  social  justice  and  the 
emancipation of the weakest segments of society.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  reasserts  its  own 
commitment  to  the  goal  of  a  world  free  of  any  form 
of racism and racial discrimination, where the freedom 
of  expression  and  association,  and  above  all  the 
freedom  of  religion,  are  guaranteed  and  the  personal 
fulfilment  of  individuals  is  ensured.  To  that  end,  we 
shall be guided by the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights. Furthermore, San Marino praises the high-level 
meetings  marking  the  first  part  of  the  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  because  the  themes  discussed  are 
not only urgent but also extremely important.
The Republic of San Marino has always paid special 
attention to the most vulnerable groups, such as women, 
children, the elderly and the disabled. Today, women are 
18/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
still the victims of discrimination and violence in many 
parts  of  the  world,  including  in  the  most  developed 
countries. In the poorest regions of our planet, maternal 
mortality remains a challenge. Moreover, women are the 
most vulnerable to HIV infection. Trafficking in women 
is  far  from  being  resolved.  Women  are  often  subject 
to  abuse  and  to  humiliating  and  degrading  treatment, 
including  polygamy,  child  marriage,  kidnapping  and 
sexual  violence,  including  domestic  violence.  Women 
living in conflict and post-conflict situations are often 
subject to sexual violence, mass rape, torture, summary 
executions.
The  advancement  of  women’s  rights  and  the 
elimination of all barriers to their full participation in 
political, economic and social life must be top priorities 
for the United Nations, along with the promotion of their 
economic opportunities and equality in all sectors.
The United Nations has the duty to protect children, 
the  most  vulnerable  victims  of  violence,  abuse  and 
exploitation. In the most poverty-stricken areas of the 
world,  the  infant  mortality  rate  is  still  unacceptable 
and a very high number of children suffer from chronic 
malnutrition, which is the main cause of child mortality. 
My country hopes for the universal ratification of the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional 
Protocols and their full implementation.
The international community must strive for the full 
inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in 
the economic, social and cultural life of the community. 
Despite  the  significant  steps  forward  taken  over  the 
last years in terms of equality and non-discrimination 
against disabled persons, much remains to be done for 
the  implementation  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights 
of  Persons  with  Disabilities,  through  the  adoption  of 
legislative  measures  and  national  and  international 
policies.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino  welcomes  the 
convening of the High-level Meeting on the Realization 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  Other 
Internationally Agreed Development Goals for Persons 
with Disabilities (see A/68/PV.3) and fully supports its 
outcome document (resolution 68/3).
In particular, it must be stressed that the protection 
of disabled persons can be more easily achieved if the 
social  and  economic  policies  of  individual  States  and 
international  organizations  pay  due  attention  to  the 
institution  of  the  family  as  the  natural  environment 
in  which  human  beings  are  born  and  develop  their 
awareness of the rights and duties regulating coexistence 
among people.
My  country’s  priorities  include  environmental 
sustainability  and  the  prevention  of  and  response  to 
natural  disasters.  Over  the  last  years,  certain  regions 
of  the  world  have  been  shaken  by  unprecedented 
natural  disasters.  In  Asia,  Latin  America  and  Africa, 
in particular in the Horn of Africa, local communities 
have  suffered  from  extreme  conditions,  experiencing 
the  tragic  consequences  of  their  vulnerability  and  of 
food and health uncertainty.
Our thanks go to the Secretary-General, the Office 
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the 
Central Emergency Response Fund for their prompt and 
crucial  intervention  in  favour  of  populations  affected 
by  natural  disasters.  However,  individual  Member 
States  must  do  more  and  give  rapid  and  effective 
support to populations in emergency situations, both by 
investing in the most vulnerable regions so as to build 
the  capacities  necessary  for  preventive  action  and  by 
providing  them  with  the  moral  and  financial  support 
necessary to cope with disasters.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  attaches  great 
importance to the issue of preventing and responding to 
natural disasters. Despite its small size, it ranks fifty-
first  on  the  list  of  donors  to  the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund.
Lastly, the finalization of the post-2015 development 
agenda  cannot  be  separated  from  a  discussion  on  the 
strengthening of global governance mechanisms, since 
the achievement of the new development goals will be 
the  result  of  cooperation  among  all  Member  States. 
San  Marino  believes  that  the  United  Nations  has  the 
duty to retain its leadership role in global governance 
management.
My country is a traditional sponsor of the annual 
draft resolution entitled “The United Nations in global 
governance”, to be submitted in 2013 for the third time. 
It reiterates the need for a more inclusive, transparent 
and effective approach to solving the world’s problems 
and  recognizes  the  central  role  to  be  played  by  the 
United Nations in global governance.
Indeed,  the  highly  democratic  nature  and  the 
universal  character  of  the  United  Nations  grant  it 
indisputable legitimacy and a patrimony deriving from 
the cultural diversities and the traditions it represents. 
This leads to an approach focusing on humankind and 
the promotion of human rights in which the needs of the 
entire international community are taken into account. 
Indeed, global problems require global solutions.
13-48790
19/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
Against  that  background,  our  Organization  must 
adapt.  The  political  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly, and reform of the Security Council, are the 
core  issues  of  such  a  reform  process.  The  demands 
made  today  by  the  peoples  of  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  require  a  review  of  working  methods 
and  the  decision-making  process  in  order  to  ensure 
that solutions are reached in the context of which the 
interests and positions of all parties concerned are duly 
taken into account.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  always  believed 
in  the  power  of  dialogue,  democracy  and  respect  for 
others. That is why, in its centuries-old history, it has 
never  fought  any  war.  Drawing  on  that  experience, 
we  believe  that —  and  this  is  our  contribution  to  the 
general debate — the Millennium Development Goals 
and the definition of the post-2015 development agenda 
need to be set within this perspective.
Address by Mr. Milo Dukanović, Prime Minister 
of Montenegro
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Montenegro.
Mr. Milo Dukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Milo 
Dukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
(Montenegro) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Dukanović 
in 
Montenegrin;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  address  the  Assembly 
today  on  behalf  of  Montenegro  and  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment to the United Nations and its Charter.
I  wish  to  congratulate  President  Ashe  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-eighth session and to express the full support 
of  the  Montenegrin  delegation  to  him  personally  and 
for the programme he has put forward. I wish also to 
extend  my  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, 
our neighbour, for his energetic efforts and leadership, 
which  contributed 
to  dynamic  and  constructive 
discussions  on  various  issues  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda.  It  is  a  special  pleasure  for  me  to  pay  tribute 
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
tireless  efforts  to  build  a  safer  and  more  prosperous 
world.
The  numerous  challenges  that  the  United  Nations 
is currently facing are far more complex than previous 
ones. Those challenges are such that all of us have to 
ensure, through joint efforts, coordinated and efficient 
action to overcome them. That is our moral, collective 
obligation towards the well-being of future generations.
The challenge of achieving sustainable development 
and integrating its three dimensions is the greatest of 
them all. It is encouraging that the General Assembly, 
bound  by  the  Rio  outcome  document  (resolution 
66/288, annex), is successfully addressing this priority. 
With the establishment of the Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals, the Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing  and  the  High-level  Political  Forum,  the 
institutional  framework  as  a  platform  for  substantive 
work has been strengthened.
In  that  context,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  results  of  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015  are  becoming 
more important than ever. I am certain that the United 
Nations, guided by the synergy and pragmatic approach 
of  its  Members  and  all  stakeholders,  will  be  able  to 
respond  to  that  highly  complex  challenge.  Such  an 
approach will contribute to our well-being and a safer 
future  for  all  of  us,  further  strengthening  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  system  of  global 
governance. 
To  that  end,  poverty  eradication  and  the  other 
unmet  MDGs  must  remain  at  the  heart  of  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  We  must  define  future 
sustainable  development  goals  on  the  basis  of  the 
experience  and  lessons  learned  from  our  success  or 
failure in accomplishing the tasks set by the Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  Montenegro  is  working 
diligently on the MDGs and is close to meeting them.
Our  sustainable  development  goals  must  be  clear, 
universal, flexible and coherent, and represent a central 
part of the post-2015 global development agenda. They 
must clearly reflect political commitment to sustainable 
development  and  promote  economic  development, 
social inclusion, the sustainable use of natural resources 
and  protection  of  the  environment  as  well  peace  and 
security.  As  a  member  of  the  Open  Working  Group 
on  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  Montenegro  is 
working assiduously to define those goals, taking into 
20/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
consideration  national  characteristics  and  capacities 
and individual countries’ development priorities.
After  three  years  of  strong  economic  growth  in 
Montenegro,  the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis 
affected us, too, leading to a drop in investment, banks’ 
credit  activities  and  foreign  trade.  The  patterns  of 
economic  growth  have  changed,  so  we  have  adapted 
our economic policy to the new circumstances. At the 
same  time,  the  Government  has  adopted  a  medium-
term  development  plan  modeled  on  the  European 
Union’s  Europe  2020  strategy.  The  three  pillars  that 
Montenegro  will  base  its  sustainable  development  on 
are  smart  growth,  sustainable  growth  and  inclusive 
growth. The national plan will make our structural and 
institutional reforms more consistent with development-
oriented  public  measures  and  investments.  Aware  of 
the importance of that issue, we are setting up a centre 
for  sustainable  development  in  Montenegro  that  will 
become operational in early 2014. We hope that in time 
it will take on a regional role and become part of the 
Sustainable Development Solutions Network, based on 
the outcome of the 2012 United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development.
One  issue  that  is  inseparable  from  the  post-2015 
development  framework  is  that  of  climate  change. 
Montenegro  is  committed  to  intensifying  its  efforts 
to  promote  the  adoption  by  2015  of  a  comprehensive 
and legally binding agreement that would apply to all. 
We call on every country, in particular the major world 
economies, to step up their efforts related to mitigating 
the  impact  of  climate  change  and  reaching  a  global 
climate  agreement.  In  that  regard,  we  emphasize  our 
full  support  for  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  in 
convening a conference on climate change in September 
2014.
The  maintenance  and  promotion  of  international 
peace  and  security  is  a  continuing  challenge  for  the 
United Nations. We note that in some crisis areas, such 
as Mali, significant progress has been made in reducing 
violence  and  instability,  while  the  situations  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African 
Republic,  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  still  need  the 
continued attention and efforts of the Security Council 
and other relevant actors.
Due  to  the  overall  consequences  for  the  country 
itself  and  for  the  broader  region,  the  crisis  in  Syria 
regrettably still monopolizes the attention of the global 
body politic and is at the top of the agenda of the United 
Nations. We are deeply concerned about the continuing 
deterioration of the situation in Syria and most strongly 
condemn any form of violence, killing of civilians and 
violation of human rights. We especially condemn the 
use  of  chemical  weapons  confirmed  by  the  United 
Nations inspection team, which Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon has labeled a war crime. We urge that those 
responsible  for  crimes  in  Syria  and  for  violations  of 
international law be brought to account. 
The  agreement  reached  between 
the  United 
States  and  the  Russian  Federation  gives  us  hope  for 
a  diplomatic  solution  to  the  crisis  and  an  end  to  the 
conflict  in  Syria  through  resolute  action  on  the  part 
of  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  that  a  political 
solution and a democratic transition are the only way 
to end a tragic conflict that has led to a humanitarian 
crisis  of  incalculable  proportions,  affecting  the  whole 
region.
The  case  of  Syria,  among  others,  highlights  the 
importance  of  preventive  measures  and  mediation 
in  preserving 
international  peace  and  security. 
Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to 
achieve an early response and suppress threats before 
they become a source of conflict will be key to dealing 
with similar situations in future. Montenegro supports 
the  promotion  of  the  concept  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect  and  its  operationalization,  with  prevention  as 
an integral element. We are in favour of continuing the 
debate on the international community’s responsibility 
for  taking  timely  and  decisive  action  to  prevent  mass 
suffering.
In the context of the situation in the Middle East, 
we  are  particularly  pleased  by  the  resumption  of 
Palestinian-Israeli  negotiations  after  several  stalled 
years,  and  we  commend  the  mediation  efforts  of  the 
United States Secretary of State. Montenegro believes 
that  direct  negotiations  are  the  best  way  to  reach  a 
comprehensive and sustainable settlement.
With 
the 
intention  of 
taking  on  additional 
responsibilities  and  contributing  to  the  promotion 
of  global  peace  and  security  and  the  observance  of 
universal values, rights and freedoms as a responsible 
and proactive member of the international community, 
Montenegro  is  seeking  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the 
Security Council for 2026-2027.
Besides  its  strong  support  for  improving  the 
conception  and  structural  development  of  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  capacities, 
Montenegro  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  rule  of 
13-48790
21/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
law and the protection of civilians, particularly women 
and  children,  and  urges  United  Nations  missions  to 
consistently  fulfil  their  mandates  in  that  area.  We 
condemn  all  forms  of  violence,  especially  sexual 
violence against women and girls in conflict situations, 
and  we  therefore  support  the  implementation  of  the 
agenda on women and peace and security and, in that 
context,  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and 
other relevant resolutions.
The adoption of the Arms Trade Treaty as the first 
legally binding instrument in that area will undoubtedly 
contribute to global efforts in the field of disarmament 
and non-proliferation. I am pleased to emphasize that 
Montenegro was a firm supporter of a comprehensive 
and strongly worded Arms Trade Treaty from the outset 
and was among the first 65 countries to sign it. We are 
conscious of how important it is that the Treaty enters 
into force as soon as possible and will therefore make 
every effort to ensure its speedy ratification.
The  increased  integration  of  human  rights  into 
every aspect of the work of the United Nations, ensuring 
universal respect for human rights, and the effectiveness 
of the United Nations system in the area of human rights 
constitute  the  guidelines  for  action  for  Montenegro, 
especially through the Human Rights Council, of which 
my country is a member. By cooperating actively with 
the Council and its special proceedings, as well as with 
Member  States,  we  contribute  to  timely  and  efficient 
deliberations  on  issues  relating  to  the  promotion  of 
human  rights  and  responding  adequately  to  cases  of 
human rights violations. 
At the national level, we are striving to strengthen 
a  political,  social  and  economic  environment  that 
allows  for  the  free  exercise  of  human  rights  without 
any  form  of  discrimination.  We  focus  particularly 
on  strengthening  the  position  and  role  of  women  in 
society  and  on  preventing  violence  against  them  and 
other  vulnerable  groups,  including  children,  disabled 
persons and members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and 
transgender  community.  As  Chair  of  the  Decade  of 
Roma  Inclusion  for  2005-2010,  Montenegro  has  also 
focused particularly on improving the position of Roma 
in our society.
Montenegro  remains  committed  to  an  effective 
multilateral system in which the United Nations plays 
a  central  role,  and  we  support  pragmatically  oriented 
initiatives  and  actions  for  its  reform.  We  believe  that 
reforming  and  reorganizing  the  Security  Council,  as 
the key actor in the maintenance of international peace, 
is  essential,  as  are  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly 
and  reforming  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  In 
general,  such  reform,  particularly  of  the  Security 
Council, would contribute greatly to strengthening the 
position,  relevance  and  authority  of  the  Organization 
as a whole and bringing it into harmony with modern 
geopolitical processes and challenges. 
Montenegro’s  work  within  the  Organization  is 
based on the principle of multilateral cooperation and 
respect  for  the  principles  and  values  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  aware  of  the 
importance  to  our  visibility  and  effectiveness  at  the 
international  level  of  strong  and  stable  neighbourly 
relations and of strengthening cooperation in all areas.
We  are  successfully  implementing  the  internal 
reforms  required  for  the  achievement  of  our  main 
foreign policy priorities — membership in the European 
Union and NATO. The accession negotiations with the 
European  Union,  after  the  provisional  closing  of  two 
chapters,  are  entering  a  new  and  more  demanding 
phase. The new approach in that phase of the process 
is  based  on  reforms  in  the  areas  of  the  rule  of  law, 
strengthening judicial processes and the protection of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are of 
particular importance for the citizens of Montenegro.
In  parallel,  my  country  is  strongly  committed  to 
Euro-Atlantic integration. As a country that will soon 
become  a  NATO  member,  we  are  working  devotedly 
on  the  fourth  annual  national  programme  and  reform 
implementation in order to be fully ready by the time 
our  invitation  for  alliance  membership  is  formalized. 
We  believe  that  membership  will  also  contribute  to 
reinforcing security in the Balkans, where events of the 
recent bitter past can be attributed, in part, to a lack of 
strong security arrangements.
Montenegro  is  seen  as  a  stability  factor  in  our 
region,  as  confirmed  by  continuing  advances  in 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  cooperation 
with  all  of  its  neighbours.  With  regional  cooperation 
high  on  our  agenda,  Montenegro  actively  participates 
in regional organizations. We believe that the recently 
launched West Balkans 6+2 initiative, the modalities of 
which  are  the  subject  of  intense  discussion,  will  help 
us to focus regional activities on specific development 
projects of common interest to participating States that 
are  aimed  at  speeding  up  European  integration  and 
improving the quality of life of our citizens. We believe 
that  those  efforts,  together  with  European  Union 
synergy, the South-East European Cooperation Process 
22/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
and  the  Regional  Cooperation  Council,  will  draw  the 
States of the region closer together and to the common 
goal of the European Union.
The  international  community,  led  by  the  United 
Nations,  with  the  active  participation  and  decisive 
contributions  of  all  stakeholders,  must  continue  its 
search  for  adequate  responses  and  channel  its  efforts 
towards  solving  the  increasingly  complex  issues  and 
challenges that we are facing. Each and every country, 
irrespective  of  size,  has,  without  any  doubt,  a  part  to 
play  in  finding  such  solutions,  based  on  the  mutual 
trust and cooperation necessary to build a better world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Montenegro  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Milo Ðukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nguyen Tan Dung, Prime 
Minister of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
Mr.  Nguyen  Tan  Dung,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nguyen 
Tan  Dung,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Socialist  Republic 
of Viet Nam, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Nguyen  Tan  Dung  (Viet  Nam)  (spoke  in 
Vietnamese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
It  is  a  distinct  honour  for  me  to  address  this  forum. 
I  would  like  to  extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to 
Mr. John Ashe on his assumption of the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I am 
certain  that  under  his  leadership,  the  Assembly  will 
successfully define the post-2015 development agenda 
at this session. I would also like to express my deepest 
respect  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  significant 
contributions  to  the  continuing  work  of  the  United 
Nations.
Over the past 100 years, the miraculous advances 
of  science  and  technology  have  changed  our  world 
profoundly,  making  it  appear  smaller.  People’s  lives 
have improved. Yet along with those accomplishments 
have  come  latent  dangers.  The  long-standing  dream 
shared  by  people  across  the  world  of  living  a  safe, 
peaceful, prosperous and happy life free from hunger 
remains far from achieved.
Humankind  yearns  for  peace,  so  why  is  it  that 
many  regions  remain  under  the  constant  threat  of 
disputes,  conflicts  and  wars?  The  global  economy  is 
growing, so how is it that billions of people still live in 
abject  poverty?  Science  and  technology  have  brought 
about  outstanding  advancement,  so  why  have  natural 
disasters, epidemics and pollution become increasingly 
severe  and  unpredictable?  Those  questions  impose  an 
enormous responsibility on all of us, as the community 
of nations.
Throughout  history,  wars  have  destroyed  many 
civilizations.  In  only  the  past  100  years,  two  world 
wars  and  many  others  —  including  that  in  Viet 
Nam  —  have  cost  millions  of  lives  and  produced 
devastating  consequences  over  generations.  While 
peace, cooperation and development are the dominant 
trend, the threat of war is ever present. 
Violence in the Middle East and North Africa is of 
grave concern. The latest instance in Syria, involving 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  needs  to  be  strongly 
condemned. We must give peace every possible chance 
and  find  solutions  to  eliminate  chemical  weapons,  in 
accordance with international law and United Nations 
resolutions. 
Unpredictable  developments 
the  Korean 
peninsula  persist.  Territorial  disputes  still  rage  in  the 
East  China  Sea  and  South  China  Sea.  Just  one  single 
incident or ill-conceived act could trigger conflict, or 
even war.
in 
In  the  East  China  Sea,  through  which  over  half 
of  the  world’s  shipping  passes,  maintaining  maritime 
security and freedom of navigation is critical, not only 
to  the  region  but  to  the  world.  Viet  Nam  consistently 
pursues  a  policy  of  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  to 
defend its legitimate interests and fully respect those of 
the global community, in accordance with international 
law,  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of  the  Sea,  the  Declaration  on  the  Conduct  of  Parties 
in the South China Sea, other regional agreements, and 
efforts to elaborate a code of conduct.
Ho Chi Minh used the words of Thomas Jefferson 
in Viet Nam’s Declaration of Independence:
13-48790
23/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
“All men are created equal. They are endowed 
by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights; 
among  these  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of 
happiness”. 
All human life is precious, irrespective of race, religion 
or  gender.  Taking  a  single  life  causes  heart-breaking 
pain to any family, be it here in Manhattan or far away 
in a remote corner of the Earth. Therefore, any effort 
to prevent conflict must be valued and supported. Any 
effort to preserve peace must be fully exhausted. Any 
act to provoke war must be condemned and stopped. A 
physician must do whatever is possible to cure a patient 
if there is but a glimpse of life left. And we must devote 
all of our efforts to preserving peace if there is but a 
feeble sign that war can be averted, for war will take the 
life of not only one, but many people, including many 
women and children.
Peace  can  be  built  and  preserved  only  when 
all  countries  respect  each  other’s 
independence, 
sovereignty  and  cultural  traditions,  without  imposing 
one’s own morality on another. Conflict and war can be 
averted only if we eliminate actions that run counter to 
the Charter of the United Nations and international law, 
dominance and power politics. 
Strategic  trust  among  nations  must  be  constantly 
nurtured with honesty, sincerity and concrete actions. 
In  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  or  the 
recognition  of  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
self-determination, for example, the role of the United 
Nations and the Security Council should be promoted. 
The international community expects the major Powers 
to  set  an  example  for  others  in  peacebuilding.  The 
Security  Council  should  be  the  fulcrum  in  building 
consensus  for  driving  all  nations  to  join  hands  in 
preserving  peace.  The  deadly  hand  of  war,  conflict, 
terrorism  and  violence  lies  in  wait  to  take  the  lives 
of  hundreds,  thousands  or  even  millions  of  innocent 
people. Let us not offer war a hand or look away. Let 
us stop it.
I  share  the  Secretary-General’s  view  that  the 
Millennium Development Goals are our most successful 
endeavour against hunger and poverty to date, but let us 
not forget that close to 40 per cent of global wealth rests 
in the hands of no more than 1 per cent of the world’s 
population.  The  gap  between  rich  and  poor  continues 
to  widen.  Over  1  billion  people  still  live  in  extreme 
poverty.  Hundreds  of  millions  of  people,  especially 
children,  continue  to  be  hungry  and  food  insecure, 
ill and without basic medicines, and they face a grim 
future due to the lack of educational opportunities.
At 
the  same 
time,  deforestation,  exhaustive 
exploitation  of  natural  resources,  pollution  and  other 
factors  have  led  to  global  warming,  rising  sea  levels, 
unpredictable  weather,  natural  disasters  and  new 
epidemics.  Those  grave  dangers  are  driving  poorer 
nations into deeper destitution.
We  must  rally  together  to  escape  poverty,  fight 
disease,  protect  the  environment,  respond  to  natural 
disasters  and  build  a  greener  and  more  just  world. 
Poor countries and peoples need to lift themselves out 
of poverty with the help of wealthier people and more 
developed countries. That help must arise not only from 
a sense of philanthropy — as we say in Viet Nam, whole 
leaves wrap torn ones — but above all from a sense of 
responsibility  and  understanding  of  our  joint  destiny. 
After  all,  poorer  people  and  nations  have  contributed 
to  the  wealth  of  richer  nations  and  people,  and  they 
deserve a more prosperous future.
I urge the global community to craft, with a sense 
of  responsibility  and  humanity,  an  ambitious  post-
2015  development  agenda  and  to  redouble  our  efforts 
to  promote  peace,  to  end  hunger  and  poverty  and  to 
protect our planet. Together we can develop a road map 
of actions for poorer nations to effectively participate 
in  international  agreements  and  institutions  and  to 
face  and  overcome  global  challenges  and  dangers  in 
the spirit of the motto adopted by Alexandre Dumas’s 
musketeers — “One for all and all for one”.
As  a  Vietnamese,  what  I  have  shared  with  the 
Assembly  comes  from  experiences  soaked  in  sweat 
and blood. Just a few decades ago, the very name “Viet 
Nam” was synonymous with war, division, blood and 
tears.  A  remote  country  called  Viet  Nam  suffered 
15 million tons of bombs — four times the amount used 
in the Second World War. Each Vietnamese bore nearly 
10 times his or her weight in bombs, not to mention our 
population’s suffering from over 70 million litres of the 
silent but deadly Agent Orange/dioxin compound.
According to a traditional Vietnamese expression, 
benevolence triumphs over brutality and virtue drives 
out  tyranny.  With  courageous  sacrifice  and  creativity 
and  with  the  support  of  peace-loving  people,  nations 
and international organizations, Viet Nam has defended 
its independence, united and rebuilt from the ashes of 
war, and left the past behind to become an active and 
responsible member of the international community.
24/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
Viet Nam has integrated the Millennium Development 
Goals into the formulation and implementation of our 
development  strategy,  and  it  has  balanced  economic 
development  and  social  security.  We  have  received  a 
United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
award  for  our  outstanding  achievements  in  poverty 
reduction,  Because  we  consider  people 
the  goal 
and  centre  of  development,  Viet  Nam  pays  special 
attention  to  providing  health  care,  education  and  the 
means  of  communication  even  for  people  in  remote, 
underdeveloped areas and among our ethnic minorities.
Viet Nam is working actively with other members of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations community 
to  build  it  into  a  common  house  for  all  South-East 
Asian  nations  that  were  once  deeply  divided  by  war. 
That work vividly embodies our aspirations to a bright 
future of peace, cooperation and prosperity, to unity in 
diversity, and to the accomplishment of the Millennium 
Development Goals.
Having  survived  devastating  wars  of  aggression 
and  extreme  poverty,  our  aspirations  to  peace  and 
prosperity burn ever more brightly. We are committed 
to doing more to participate in peacebuilding, poverty 
reduction, environmental protection and other efforts. 
We  stand  ready  to  join  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations. We are willing to share our resources and 
experience as a tribute to the international friends who 
have  supported  us  in  our  struggle  for  independence, 
unification and poverty reduction. 
Viet  Nam  remains  and  always  will  be  a  reliable 
partner  and  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community.  In  the  area  of  food,  for  example,  Viet 
Nam,  a  country  that  has  traditionally  suffered  from 
hunger,  has  become  a  leading  rice  exporter.  We  have 
achieved  national  food  security  but  consider  it  our 
responsibility  to  help  maintain  global  food  security. 
We not only export, but also help countries to become 
self-reliant  in  food  production,  as  we  have  done  in 
Cuba,  Mozambique,  Angola,  Mali,  Madagascar, 
Myanmar and elsewhere. We hope developed countries 
and  international  organizations  will  participate  in 
supporting  similar  programmes  as  a  meaningful  and 
substantive multiparty model of cooperation.
that 
I  am  deeply  convinced 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda  will  be  created  and  finalized 
for  a  world  free  from  war  and  hunger  and  devoted  to 
peace  and  cooperation,  for  sustainable  development 
and  prosperity  for  humankind,  and  for  our  evergreen 
planet. Viet Nam commits itself to that purpose.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of  Vietnam  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nguyen  Tan  Dung,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Socialist  Republic  of  Vietnam,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Jiri Rusnok, Prime Minister of 
the Czech Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Czech Republic.
Mr.  Jiri  Rusnok,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Czech 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jiri 
Rusnok,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Czech  Republic,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Rusnok  (Czech  Republic):  The  Assembly  is 
meeting at a time marked by significant challenges. Let 
me mention a few which I regard as the most pressing.
The  state  of  the  world  economy  remains  fragile, 
but  slowly  we  seem  to  be  entering  a  path  towards 
economic recovery and, hopefully, sustainable growth. 
The  security  situation  in  many  parts  of  the  world  is 
improving, but we are witnessing many local conflicts 
that endanger the overall regional balance. The conflict 
in Syria must come to an end on the basis of a negotiated 
political settlement. The danger of a nuclear conflict is 
diminishing thanks to the decreasing number of nuclear 
warheads and carriers in the possession of the nuclear 
Powers. Yet the currently blocked negotiations with the 
parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons should be a matter of concern. Fundamental 
human  rights  and  freedoms  are  still  at  risk  in  many 
countries.  The  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  is 
ever widening despite many efforts to alleviate world 
hunger and poverty. At the same time, some countries 
have managed to reduce the gap.
International cooperation is essential if we want to 
address those and other challenges. The United Nations 
remains  the  most  suitable  body  to  pool  the  global 
efforts  and  resources  needed  for  that  task.  The  world 
is  changing,  and  its  traditional  platform  must  adapt 
as  well.  From  the  start,  we  should  formulate  realistic 
13-48790
25/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
plans  and  procedures.  However,  their  implementation 
will not be possible without the necessary political will.
A  country’s  reputation  depends  not  only  on  its 
size  or  economic  output,  but  also  on  its  readiness 
to  actively  engage  in  addressing  and  meeting  the 
challenges of the current globalized world. The Czech 
Republic, a country with the historical experience of an 
undemocratic regime, is ready to share its experience 
from  its  democratic  transition  process,  as  well  as  to 
offer  its  help,  resources  and  know-how  to  countries 
undergoing their own democratic transition.
The year 2013 will mark a turning point for European 
economies. The Czech economy is highly dependent on 
international trade, and I strongly believe that free and 
fair trade is one of the best tools for improving the world 
economic situation. The multilateral approach to trade 
issues should be revitalized and cooperation within the 
World Trade Organization (WTO) reinforced. I sincerely 
wish much success to the new WTO leadership.
The  United  Nations  has  always  played  a  key 
role  in  defusing  armed  conflicts  between  and  within 
the  Member  States.  Its  role  in  helping  to  resolve  the 
conflict  in  Syria  is  crucial.  The  confirmed  use  of 
chemical weapons in Syria is deeply worrying. Any use 
of  chemical  weapons  is  unacceptable.  Whoever  gave 
the  order  to  initiate  the  chemical  attack  has  gravely 
violated  the  principle  of  responsibility  to  protect  the 
civilian population. The attack constitutes a war crime 
and  a  crime  against  humanity,  and  its  perpetrators 
should  be  held  accountable  before  the  International 
Criminal Court.
The  Czech  Republic  welcomes  the  decision  of 
the  Executive  Council  of  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  on  the  expeditious 
destruction of Syrian chemical weapons, which is now 
being adopted in The Hague, and looks forward to the 
adoption of a Security Council resolution on the issue 
in the coming hours.
The  conflict  does  not  have  a  military  solution; 
only a negotiated political settlement will re-establish 
peace  in  Syria.  The  Czech  Republic  calls  on  all 
parties, especially on the Syrian Government, to fully 
implement the 2012 Geneva communiqué (S/2012/523, 
annex). The Czech Republic supports and will continue 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  to  meet 
the  growing  humanitarian  needs  in  Syria  and  the 
neighbouring countries.
The  Czech  Republic  acknowledges  developments 
in  the  transformation  process  of  Myanmar.  I  strongly 
encourage  the  country’s  leaders,  in  accordance  with 
their  public  pronouncements,  to  actively  pursue  the 
process of amending the national Constitution in order 
to improve democratic standards in the country.
As I mentioned earlier, the role of the United Nations 
in  resolving  armed  conflicts  is  indispensable.  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  are  an  important 
tool  for  sustainable  and  durable  solutions  to  violent 
conflict  worldwide.  Having  participated  in  United 
Nations  operations  in  recent  years  in  relatively  small 
numbers,  my  country,  the  Czech  Republic,  is  ready 
to  substantially  increase  the  presence  of  its  military 
personnel in peacekeeping operations.
The  Czech  Republic,  a  non-nuclear-weapon  State, 
has  always  strongly  advocated  for  the  unfettered 
right  to  develop,  research  and  use  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes.  Nevertheless,  that  right  should  be 
fully  exercised  only  in  conjunction  with  honouring 
all  non-proliferation  obligations.  The  long-standing 
objective  of  the  complete  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons may be achieved only if the non-proliferation 
regime  meets  all  demands  for  its  strengthening.  The 
upcoming meeting of the group of governmental experts 
on a fissile material cut-off treaty will be a step in the 
right direction. The Czech Republic greatly appreciates 
that fact that the international community was finally 
able to complete the Arms Trade Treaty negotiations.
I  should  like  to  share  my  view  of  the  role  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  Czech 
Republic  has  been  actively  involved  from  the  very 
beginning  in  the  discussions  on  the  formulation  of  a 
new development agenda. We are ready and committed 
to take part in its implementation. As formulated by the 
Secretary-General in his report (A/68/202), the MDGs 
have  been  the  most  successful  global  anti-poverty 
push in history and have made a great contribution to 
raising public awareness, increasing political will and 
mobilizing resources.
Some of the MDG targets have been met already; 
some are within close reach. But the results are uneven 
among  and  within  countries  and  there  is  a  lot  of 
unfinished  business.  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that 
my  Government  remains  committed  to  the  MDGs,  as 
reflected in both our policies and our practical actions.
The  future  development  agenda  should  build  on 
the  success  of  the  MDGs  and  bring  together  diverse 
26/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
development actors. I would like to support the single 
overarching  post-2015  framework,  which  will  link 
poverty  eradication  in  all  its  dimensions  and  the 
promotion of sustainable development. I therefore call 
for  the  full  integration  of  all  relevant  international 
processes,  which  have  been  separate  until  now,  in 
particular  the  review  of  the  MDGs  and  the  work  of 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals.
We have to make sure that the future goals will be 
universal for all countries but at the same time remain 
realistic, taking into account the actual possibilities of 
each country. They must be achievable and measurable. 
I  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  report  of  the  High-level 
Panel  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  puts 
emphasis on inclusive growth and considers the role of 
innovation,  technology  and  the  private  sector  actors. 
The  proposed  development  goal  to  secure  sustainable 
energy is a very good example and should figure among 
the future development priorities.
the  sixty-fifth  anniversary  of 
In  December,  the  international  community  will 
commemorate 
the 
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
The  situation  of  human  rights  has  improved  in  some 
areas.  New  human  rights  challenges  have  emerged. 
A great deal of work still lies ahead of us. The Czech 
Republic, a member of the Human Rights Council and 
the country of Václav Havel, will always defend human 
rights wherever they are violated.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  focus  on  issues 
related to the process of reforming the United Nations. 
The  Czech  Republic  appreciates  the  dedicated  work 
of  the  Secretary-General,  which  is  transforming  the 
United  Nations  into  a  more  effective  and  accountable 
system. Unfortunately, there are not enough means to 
fund all initiatives. We all have to do more with less. 
I am sure that we will find internal reserves that will 
allow the United Nations to achieve the tasks entrusted 
to  it  with  greater  success.  By  performing  well  and 
by  being  responsive  to  its  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations will strengthen the political will of its Members 
to invest in multilateral forums and thus contribute to 
a safer world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Czech Republic for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Jiri  Rusnok,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Czech 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Jean Asselborn, Deputy Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Asselborn  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
The President of the General Assembly has chosen for 
this session and this general debate the theme “The post-
2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  He  has 
thus called on the Assembly to be bold and ambitious, 
to work together towards the same objective, to prove to 
the world that we will not accept defeat, and to exert our 
collective  responsibility  in  order  to  eradicate  poverty 
and promote sustainable development.
Luxembourg  stands  ready  to  do  so.  We  are  ready 
to  work  towards  a  renewed  global  partnership  based 
on  a  common  understanding  of  our  shared  humanity, 
on  a  new  spirit  of  solidarity,  cooperation  and  mutual 
accountability, and on coordinated action that embraces 
security,  development,  governance,  human  rights  and 
the rule of law.
To  live  free  from  fear,  conflict  and  violence 
is  the  most  fundamental  human  right,  and  yet  we 
witness  unspeakable  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law  every  single  day.  The 
use of missiles, bombs, cluster munitions and chemical 
weapons,  the  systematic  imposition  of  sieges,  forced 
displacements,  torture,  sexual  violence,  violations 
and  abuses  committed  against  children,  more  than 
2  million  refugees,  more  than  100,000  dead  —  these 
are the chilling results of two and a half years of brutal 
repression and conflict in Syria. The list of war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  committed  on  a  daily 
basis continues to grow. 
Against  such  horror,  I  repeat  once  again  that  the 
situation in Syria must be referred to the International 
Criminal Court. Allow me to quote High Commissioner 
for Refugees António Guterres: 
“Syria  has  become  the  great  tragedy  of  this 
century  —  a  disgraceful  humanitarian  calamity 
with  suffering  and  displacement  unparalleled  in 
recent history”. 
The  Syrian  people  need  assistance  now,  and  they 
have the right to such assistance under the most basic 
criteria codified in international humanitarian law. The 
Syrian authorities must urgently meet the demands of 
13-48790
27/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
humanitarian  actors  by  immediately  facilitating  their 
free and unimpeded access to the affected populations. 
It  is  urgent  to  remove  bureaucratic  obstacles,  to 
ensure  the  delivery  of  medical  supplies,  to  institute 
humanitarian  pauses,  to  open  up  humanitarian  routes 
and  to  allow  access  to  populations  in  need  across 
borders and across conflict lines.
Palestinians.  I  also  praise  the  political  courage  and 
the  sense  of  responsibility  shown  by  the  Israeli  and 
Palestinian  authorities  in  accepting  to  return  to  the 
negotiating  table.  Eight  rounds  have  been  held  since 
14 August. We hope that the negotiations will intensify 
in October and lead to a result within the agreed time 
frame of nine months.
As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  Luxembourg  is  working  with  Australia  to 
amplify  the  demands  of  humanitarian  actors  to  the 
parties to the conflict in Syria and to secure them in a 
unified message from the Security Council. I hope that 
those efforts will come to fruition very soon.
While  we  have  been  able  to  make  progress  in 
past few days on the issue of chemical weapons, and I 
hope we will adopt, a few hours from now a Security 
Council  resolution  establishing  a  strong  and  binding 
mechanism  to  ensure  the  control  and  destruction  of 
the Syrian chemical weapons as soon as possible. Yet 
we cannot and must not forget the humanitarian crisis 
that continues to unfold in Syria and its neighbouring 
countries, particularly Lebanon and Jordan but also in 
Iraq and Turkey. For its part, Luxembourg has fulfiled 
the pledges it made in Kuwait City on 30 January last, 
and we have just decided to increase our humanitarian 
aid to the populations affected by the Syrian crisis to 
€7.6 million.
The  vigorous  appeal  made  on  Tuesday  by  the 
Secretary-General should resonate with all of us. Let us 
break our deafening silence and live up to our collective 
and  individual  responsibilities.  We  all  agree  that  a 
lasting  solution  to  the  conflict  in  Syria  can  only  be 
political. Here too, let us live up to our responsibilities; 
let  us  seize  the  momentum  created  by  the  agreement 
on  chemical  weapons,  set  a  date  for  the  “Geneva  II” 
conference,  and  encourage  the  parties  to  participate 
therein  in  order  to  start  down  a  road,  on  the  basis  of 
the Geneva communiqué of 30 June 2012 (S/2012/523, 
annex),  leading  to  a  cessation  of  hostilities  and  to  a 
necessary  political  transition  in  Syria  that  meets  the 
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people.
Tragic as it may be, the situation in Syria must not 
lead  us  to  forget  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
We must not forget the urgent need to see the creation 
of  a  contiguous  and  viable  Palestinian  State,  living 
in  peace  and  security,  side  by  side  with  the  State  of 
Israel.  I  welcome  the  commitment  and  resolve  of  the 
Secretary  of  State  of  the  United  States,  John  Kerry, 
to  restart  direct  negotiations  between  the  Israelis  and 
We all know that this initiative is probably our last 
opportunity to act. We must not let it slip away. If we do, 
it  could  lead  to  dramatic  consequences.  The  time  has 
come to make difficult decisions, to take the necessary 
historic measures in line with the long-term interests of 
the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. The time has come 
to  implement  the  two-State  solution.  This  is  no  time 
for  unilateral  acts  that  fuel  the  dynamic  of  mistrust. 
Building illegal settlements and destroying Palestinian 
homes and infrastructure in the West Bank, including 
in East Jerusalem, must stop immediately. The attacks 
on Gaza must stop. All violence must stop.
With 
in 
ready 
its  partners 
the  European  Union, 
Luxembourg  stands 
its  active 
to  pursue 
contribution to the ongoing efforts, in close cooperation 
with key stakeholders, the Quartet and countries in the 
region.  There  can  be  no  security  in  Israel  without  a 
viable  Palestinian  State.  There  can  be  no  security  in 
the region without peace in all countries of the Middle 
East.
We must shake up the status quo. We must break 
the  cycle  of  violence.  This  imperative  also  applies  to 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Great 
Lakes region. We dearly hope that the Peace, Security 
and  Cooperation  Framework  for 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Region,  signed  on 
24 February in Addis Ababa, represents a turning point 
for  consolidating  peace  and  regional  stability.  The 
second meeting of the Regional Oversight Mechanism, 
held at the level of the Heads of State and Government 
on  Monday  in  New  York  City,  led  to  the  adoption  of 
regional benchmarks and indicators on progress, which 
will facilitate the implementation of the Framework. 
This  is  an  important  first  step.  It  must  be 
followed  by  concrete  action  at  the  political,  security 
and  economic  levels.  The  parties  must  fulfil  all  their 
commitments diligently and in good faith, including a 
commitment neither to tolerate nor to provide assistance 
or support of any kind to armed groups, in particular 
the Mouvement du 23 mars, which continues to operate 
in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. We 
must  tackle  the  root  causes  of  recurring  violence  and 
28/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
lay  the  foundation  for  reviving  the  regional  economy 
in order to initiate a virtuous circle that will allow the 
people of the region to start down the the path towards 
sustainable development.
The commitment of the international community is 
all the more necessary in a situation that, regrettably, 
has  received  far  less  attention.  I  am  referring  to 
the  humanitarian  tragedy  unfolding  in  the  Central 
African  Republic,  affecting  the  entire  population  of 
4.6 million people. Law and order and the rule of law 
have collapsed. Human rights violations have become 
commonplace, as have arbitrary arrests and detention, 
torture,  sexual  violence  against  women  and  children, 
rape  and  extrajudicial  executions.  According  to  our 
sources,  Séléka  militias  have  also  recruited  and  used 
at least 3,500 child soldiers. No one can be indifferent 
to those figures. The humanitarian situation continues 
to  deteriorate.  The  prevailing  insecurity  has  further 
reduced access to the affected populations. We must act 
immediately.
Restoring security and law and order must be our 
first priority. We strongly welcome the decision of the 
African Union Peace and Security Council to authorize 
the  deployment  of  an  international  support  mission 
to  the  Central  African  Republic.  The  United  Nations 
should give its full logistical and financial support to 
this African-led mission. Our credibility is at stake.
We all know the disastrous effects of the unregulated 
trade in conventional arms — violent repression, armed 
conflict,  crime  and  widespread  violence.  That  is  why 
the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  is  so  important.  The  General 
Assembly  adopted  the  Treaty  by  a  very  large  margin 
five  months  ago.  Luxembourg  is  proud  to  have  been 
among  the  first  sponsors  of  that  important  initiative. 
We are proud to have signed the Treaty as soon as it was 
ready for signature on 3 June. The national ratification 
procedure has started, and members can count on our 
support  to  ensure  that  the  Treaty  comes  rapidly  into 
full force. In that regard, allow me to congratulate the 
homeland  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  on  having  ratified  the  Treaty. 
I  also  welcome  the  fact  that  more  than  110  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  United 
States of America, have already signed this new legal 
instrument. 
The Arms Trade Treaty is a significant step forward 
for  international  law,  international  humanitarian  law 
and human rights. In that context, I welcome yesterday’s 
important Security Council debate on the impact of the 
illicit transfer, destabilizing accumulation and misuse 
of small arms and light weapons on international peace 
and security (see S/PV.7036), as well as its adoption of 
resolution 2117 (2013). The Council has thereby rightly 
underscored the need for an integrated response from 
the international community that takes into account the 
negative  effects  of  those  illicit  activities  on  security, 
governance, the rule of law and development, as well 
as  the  links  between  such  activities  and  other  threats 
to  international  peace  and  security  such  as  terrorism, 
piracy and transnational organized crime.
The  recent  callous  attack  on  a  shopping  centre 
in  Nairobi  has  again  demonstrated  the  importance  of 
our  ongoing  vigilance  in  the  fight  against  terrorism. 
This  unacceptable  act  must  encourage  us  to  further 
support African efforts aimed at freeing Somalia from 
the  threat  of  Al-Shabaab.  During  the  New  Deal  for 
Somalia conference held on 16 September in Brussels, 
I  had  the  opportunity  to  reaffirm  that  Luxembourg 
remained  committed  to  working  alongside  Somalia. 
We are convinced that with the determined support of 
the international community — the African Union and 
the United Nations in particular, the Government and 
people of Somalia will be able to continue their journey 
towards peace, security and prosperity.
The  risk  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction remains just as real a threat as the threat of 
terrorism. Yesterday, negotiations between the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  and  the  E3+3  Governments,  led  by 
the European Union’s High Representative for Foreign 
Affairs and Security Policy, Ms. Ashton, resumed here 
in New York. We support those efforts. We seek solid 
negotiations quickly leading to concrete outcomes and 
a diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear crisis. 
Sanctions  are  not  in  and  of  themselves  an  end. 
They are a global response to Iran’s refusal to meet its 
international obligations and to cooperate fully with the 
International Atomatic Energy Agency. We encourage 
the  new  Iranian  leadership  to  engage  in  constructive 
dialogue, to take the measures necessary to prove to the 
international community that its nuclear programme is 
intended for exclusively peaceful purposes, and to turn 
a new leaf in its relations with the global community. 
I  hope  that  the  recent  phone  call  between  President 
Obama  and  President  Rouhani  will  help  move  the 
situation in that direction. 
When  we  talk  about  sustainable  development  and 
the creation of the post-2015 development agenda, we 
cannot  ignore  the  devastating  effects  of  conflicts  and 
13-48790
29/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
violence  on  development.  The  crisis  situations  and 
threats that I have just mentioned illustrate this clearly. 
We  must  also  speak  firmly  about  governance  that  is 
conducive  to  development,  institutions  that  guarantee 
the rule of law, freedom of expression, and transparent 
and  accountable  Governments.  We  must  talk  about 
justice,  the  fight  against  impunity  and  respect  for 
international law.
year term on the Security Council. That tenure, the first 
in our history, is not only an honour but a responsibility 
that we do not take lightly. Each day since 1 January, 
Luxembourg  has  worked  in  concert  with  its  partners 
to contribute to the maintenance of international peace 
and security and to assume our common responsibility 
to prevent, to preserve and to protect. No task is more 
noble. No task is more urgent in the current context.
Luxembourg  fully  subscribes  to  the  Secretary-
General’s call for the post-2015 objectives to be based 
on  the  international  norms  and  principles  of  human 
rights. Those objectives must apply to everybody and 
help  address  the  global  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century,  building  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  They  must  contribute  to  eliminating 
poverty  and  promoting  sustainable  development,  and 
be integrated into one coherent framework. 
The  special  event  held  the  day  before  yesterday 
by  the  General  Assembly  allowed  us  to  take  stock  of 
ongoing  work  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  and  to 
welcome significant progress made, but also to identify 
the sectors where it will be important to redouble our 
efforts.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  reminded  us, 
the  picture  before  us  is  only  half  finished.  We  must 
therefore  speed  up  the  march  towards  attaining  the 
MDGs. We must renew our commitment. We must keep 
our promises.
My country will continue to do its part. Since 2009, 
our  official  development  assistance  has  amounted 
to  1  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income.  We  are 
determined to maintain this effort despite the crisis. 
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development 
in  June  2012,  we  reaffirmed  our 
commitment  to  sustainable  development  in  its  three 
interdependent  dimensions:  economic  development, 
social  inclusion  and  environmental  sustainability.  We 
reiterated our determination to address the threats that 
climate change and environmental degradation pose to 
humankind. With its European partners,  Luxembourg 
has  made  binding  commitments  to  reduce  its  carbon 
emissions and to mitigate the effects of climate change. 
We  are  resolved  to  do  our  all  to  achieve  a  universal 
climate agreement in 2015.
Last  year  in  the  Hall  of  the  General  Assembly, 
our  Head  of  State,  the  Grand  Duke,  underscored 
Luxembourg’s willingness to serve the United Nations 
(see A/67/PV.9). Today, I take this opportunity to thank 
the Assembly for having elected my country to a two-
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Evangelos Venizelos, the Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Hellenic Republic.
Mr.  Venizelos  (Greece)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
congratulate Mr. John Ashe on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session. 
I  convey  my  deep  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  work  to  strengthen  the 
role  and  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations,  fully 
supporting the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
I take this opportunity to emphasize my country’s 
alignment  with  the  positions  of  the  European  Union, 
presented  by  the  President  of  the  European  Council, 
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy, 
in  his  address  (see 
A/68/PV.8).
Greece remains fully committed to the objectives 
of  the  United  Nations,  whose  universal  ideals  have 
never  ceased  to  inspire  us.  We  are  deeply  committed 
to our collective work for sustainable peace, prosperity 
and safeguarding human dignity. In that spirit, we lend 
our full support to the efforts to reform and strengthen 
the Organization in order to meet the challenges of the 
twenty-first century.
We welcome the special event on the Millennium 
the  High-Level 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
Political Forum that took place this week and highlighted 
the  broad  themes  of  international  development  and 
cooperation. 
The  effective  management  of  migration  can  have 
a  positive  impact  on  the  countries  of  origin  and  of 
destination. The High-Level Dialogue on International 
Migration and Development to be held on 3 and 4 October 
presents an important opportunity to develop a global 
agenda for the effective and inclusive management of 
migration and to reaffirm the necessary political will. 
Greece  is  committed  to  participating  actively  in  joint 
efforts to that end.
30/32 
13-48790
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.16
Greece and the other countries of southern Europe 
are under great pressure with regard to the issue of illegal 
immigration, which weighs heavily on our financial and 
administrative  capacities.  The  effective  management 
of migration represents for our country a key political 
option  in  that  it  relates  directly  to  safeguarding  and 
respecting  human  rights,  social  cohesion  and  public 
security,  and  to  maintaining  the  economic  stability 
of  our  countries.  On  the  basis  of  our  experience  of 
recent  years,  we  have  reviewed  our  national  action 
plan to reform the system of asylum and immigration. 
Furthermore,  migration  and  mobility  issues  will  be 
among  the  priorities  of  the  Greek  presidency  of  the 
European Council in the first term of 2014.
The promotion of human rights is a priority interest. 
Greece  will  lend  its  full  support  to  strengthening  the 
Human Rights Council with a solid mandate. Greece is 
determined to contribute actively to the mission of the 
Human Rights Council and is presenting its candidature 
for the 2017–2019 term. Greece is strongly devoted to 
the  decisive  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  peace  and 
security.  In  spite  of  financial  restraints,  we  remain 
firmly committed to peacekeeping operations, to which 
we contribute personnel and resources, including to the 
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. We support 
efforts  to  prevent  conflicts  and  promote  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. Moreover, we attach particular 
importance  to  cooperation  between  the  European 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  in  the  field  of  crisis 
management, and we welcome the work undertaken to 
further strengthen that cooperation.
(spoke in English) 
The  relaunching  of  peace  negotiations  between 
Israel and the Palestinian Authority, facilitated by the 
United  States,  provides  an  important  opportunity  to 
reach a final settlement to this long-standing problem, 
to the benefit and stability in the wider region, based 
on  a  two-State  solution  with  a  secure  Israel  and  a 
sovereign, contiguous and viable Palestine living side 
by  side.  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  and  President 
Abbas must be praised for their leadership and courage 
to engage in the peace talks. Now is the time to take 
bold and concrete steps towards peace.
Greece 
is  very  concerned  with 
the  ongoing 
crisis  in  Syria,  which  jeopardizes  stability  in  a  very 
fragile  region.  Greece  and  the  European  Union  have 
unequivocally condemned the use of chemical weapons, 
and  we  strongly  support  the  United  States-Russian 
Federation initiative for the collection and destruction 
of Syria’s chemical arsenal. We welcome the diplomatic 
breakthrough expected to be achieved by the Security 
Council on the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. 
It is our fervent hope that it will be a crucial turning 
point  in  the  Syrian  crisis,  providing  vital  momentum 
towards a “Geneva II”-type process that can take us to 
a viable and inclusive political resolution of the Syrian 
crisis.
Greece  has  always  been  a  firm  supporter  of  a 
European  future  for  the  Balkan  region.  The  process 
of  European  integration  means  leaving  behind  old, 
divisive mentalities and moving towards an era of close 
cooperation, on the basis of shared values and principles. 
Demonstrating political courage, Belgrade and Pristina 
concluded  an  historic  agreement  in  April,  which  is  a 
major  development  towards  consolidating  peace  and 
stability  in  the  Western  Balkans  and  advancing  the 
European integration of both sides.
We  seek  to  develop  our  relations  with  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  on  the  basis  of  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
within  the  framework  of  good  neighbourly  relations. 
Greece  is  committed  to  the  ongoing  United  Nations-
led  negotiation  process  and  to  finding  a  solution  on 
the issue of a name. We therefore continue our efforts 
to reach a mutually acceptable name for all uses, erga 
omnes, that will leave no grey areas and allow for a clear 
distinction between our neighbouring country and the 
region of Macedonia in northern Greece. The solution 
of  the  name  issue  will  enable  both  Greece  and  its 
neighbour to develop multidimensional and productive 
cooperation at the bilateral and regional levels. It will 
also contribute to the stability and prosperity of South-
East  Europe  and  boost  the  country’s  Euro-Atlantic 
aspirations.
Thirty-nine years after the Turkish military invasion 
of  the  island,  the  Cyprus  problem  remains  first  and 
foremost an issue of illegal military occupation of well 
over one third of the territory of a Member State of the 
United Nations and European Union. A comprehensive 
agreed settlement of that major international problem is 
a top priority for the foreign policy of Greece. In that 
context, Greece greatly values the Secretary-General’s 
mission of good offices, in particular his ongoing efforts 
to successfully relaunch the intercommunal negotiating 
process. We also fully support President Anastasiadis’ 
renewed constructive package proposal.
We  hope  that  Ankara  will  decide  at  long  last  to 
pursue  a  new  policy  of  normalization  of  its  relations 
13-48790
31/32
A/68/PV.16 
27/09/2013
the 
facilitate 
with  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Such  a  Turkish  policy 
would  decisively 
relaunching  of 
intercommunal  negotiations  on  a  just  and  viable 
solution  to  the  Cyprus  issue  within  the  framework  of 
the relevant Security Council resolutions, in line with 
the acquis communautaire and approved by the Cypriot 
people  through  a  referendum.  The  new  developments 
in  the  energy  sector  regarding  the  exploitation  of 
hydrocarbons  can  serve  as  a  factor  for  development, 
peace and stability throughout the region.
Relations  with  our  neighbour  Turkey  are  set  on 
a  positive  course.  Institutionalized  cooperation  at 
the  highest  governmental  level,  as  well  as  increasing 
tourism and economic cooperation, can create further 
potential  for  the  future.  Nevertheless,  critical  factors 
needed to promote substantial and promising prospects 
for our relationship with our eastern neighbour are full 
respect for international law and international legality 
and, within this framework, a just and viable solution 
to the Cyprus issue.
country’s 
credibility.  Greece  has 
The  Greek  people  have  succeeded  in  restoring 
the 
already 
achieved the highest structural primary surplus in the 
Eurozone — 5 per cent of gross domestic product. Greece 
has  achieved  a  peacetime  historical  first  —  a  fiscal 
adjustment  of  19  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product 
in the four years from 2009 to 2013. We have done so 
in spite of six years of recession. We have carried out 
necessary structural reforms in public administration, 
the  investment  sector  and  the  labour  market,  and  our 
privatization programme is already yielding results. But 
all of that has, of course, come through great sacrifices 
borne  by  the  Greek  people  and  at  a  very  high  social 
and political cost. Defending democracy and the rule of 
law against forms of racist, xenophobic conduct and all 
forms of social violence is a fundamental engagement 
of the Hellenic Republic.
I also wish to say a few words about the priorities 
of Greece’s upcoming presidency of the Council of the 
European  Union  in  the  first  half  of  2014.  Coming  at 
a  time  of  unprecedented  economic  challenges  for  the 
Union,  our  presidency  will  carry  forward  the  vital 
debate  on  the  future  of  Europe  —  a  debate  that  will 
intensify as we approach next year’s European elections.
All the issues that humankind is facing and that are 
being  dealt  with  by  General  Assembly  at  this  session 
highlight  the  need  to  enhance  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  and  to  further  consolidate  the  institutions  of 
global economic and political governance. The hopes of 
the  international  community  are  oriented  towards  the 
United Nations. Our Organization has to send a strong 
and  clear  message  of  peace,  security  and  prosperity 
to  the  peoples  of  the  world,  particularly  the  younger 
generation.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
32/32 
13-48790
