United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
29th plenary meeting
Monday, 7 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.29
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development
Agenda item 18
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the 2002 International Conference on Financing for 
Development and the 2008 Review Conference
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will 
convene  the  sixth  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing 
for  Development,  which  is  held  in  accordance  with 
Assembly resolutions 67/199 of 21 December 2012 and 
67/300  of  16  September  2013,  and  takes  place  under 
agenda  item  18,  “Follow-up  to  and  implementation 
of  the  outcome  of  the  2002  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development  and  the  2008  Review 
Conference”.
The overall theme of the sixth High-level Dialogue 
is  “The  Monterrey  Consensus,  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing  for  Development  and  related  outcomes  of 
major United Nations conferences and summits: status 
of  implementation  and  tasks  ahead”.  The  Dialogue 
will  consist  of  plenary  meetings,  three  interactive 
multi-stakeholder 
informal 
interactive dialogue. A detailed programme is contained 
in the Journal of the United Nations.
tables  and  an 
round 
I will now make a statement.
I am pleased to welcome participants to this High-
level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development.  I  wish 
to  extend  a  special  welcome  to  ministers,  high-level 
representatives  and  senior  officials  from  Member 
States,  development,  financial  and  trade  institutions, 
and civil-society and private-sector participants.
In  accordance  with  resolution  67/300,  the  overall 
theme of this Dialogue is “The Monterrey Consensus, 
Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development  and 
related outcomes of major United Nations conferences 
and  summits:  status  of  implementation  and  tasks 
ahead”.  This  two-day  event  will  include  a  series  of 
plenary meetings and round-table discussions.
The  Dialogue  takes  place  at  a  time  when  three 
significant United Nations intergovernmental processes 
relating  to  sustainable  development,  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  and  financing  for  development 
are  about  to  converge.  To  allow  us  to  meet  those 
milestones,  financing  —  more  specifically,  financing 
for development — is the elixir — the lifeblood, if you 
like — that we need.
Our dialogue provides an opportunity to explore a 
number of key issues in detail, including the impact of 
the world financial and economic crisis on the reform 
of  the  international  monetary  and  financial  system 
and  its  implications  for  development,  and  the  steps 
that  have  been  taken  to  address  vulnerabilities  in  the 
financial sector and their implications for development. 
Other  key  issues  include  the  means  for  implementing 
a  sustainable  development  agenda  beyond  2015;  the 
mobilization of public and private financing, including 
foreign  direct  investment  and  other  private  flows; 
and  fostering  international  trade  and  sustainable  debt 
financing in the context of financing for development. 
Further key issues to be explored are the complementary 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50226 (E)
*1350226*
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
roles  of  private  and  public  financing  and  mobilizing 
domestic and international resources for development, 
and  the  role  of  financial  and  technical  development 
cooperation, 
of 
development financing, in leveraging the mobilization 
of  domestic  and  international  financial  resources  for 
sustainable development.
innovative 
including 
sources 
framework 
the  Monterrey  Consensus 
Over  a  decade  has  passed  since  world  leaders 
to  provide  a 
adopted 
financing 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Specifically, 
the  Consensus  sought  to  “eliminate  poverty,  improve 
social conditions and raise living standards, and protect 
our environment”.
in  achieving 
to  help 
During  our  recent  high-level  week  in  the  general 
debate, we heard that much has been achieved since the 
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) was adopted 
in 2000, followed by the Monterrey Consensus in 2002. 
Yet  much  remains  to  be  done.  Progress  in  reaching 
development goals has been uneven among and within 
countries,  and  new  challenges  have  emerged.  The 
international community will need to accelerate efforts 
to mobilize financial resources towards achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015  and  to  pave 
the way for the post-2015 development agenda.
With  fewer  than  825  days  remaining  before  the 
target  date  for  the  MDGs,  work  is  under  way  on  the 
preparation of a post-2015 development agenda, with a 
view to integrating the three dimensions of sustainable 
development.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  develop 
an  integrated  financing  framework  that  builds  on  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing for Development, while also addressing new 
and emerging challenges.
The recent global financial and economic crisis and 
its aftermath reminded us of the significant fragilities 
that  remain  in  the  international  financial  system. 
Many  advanced  economies,  especially  in  the  euro 
area, continue to experience sovereign debt problems, 
banking  fragility  and  fiscal  pressures.  Economic 
activity in developing countries has also been adversely 
affected,  partly  due  to  spillovers  from  economic 
weakness in developed countries, as well as structural 
problems in their own domestic economies.
Among the consequences of the weak and fragile 
state of the global economy are continuing high levels 
of  unemployment  and  underemployment  across  the 
world  and  a  slower  pace  of  poverty  reduction.  What 
is more, while we must acknowledge that in net terms 
official development assistance (ODA) levels have risen 
in  a  few  countries,  incuding  non-traditional  donors, 
overall,  the  perilous  state  of  public  finances  in  many 
countries  has  led  to  a  fall  in  ODA.  In  turn,  this  has 
meant  a  narrowing  of  fiscal  space  for  investments 
in  areas  that  are  critical  in  achieving  the  MDGs  and 
financing  sustainable  development  activities  in  the 
economic, social and environmental dimensions.
We are a little more than two years away from the 
2015 target date to meet the MDGs. Here at the United 
Nations,  we  are  about  to  embark  on  a  transformative 
exercise  aimed  at  developing  and  subsequently 
implementing  a  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Now  more  than  ever,  it  is  imperative  that  countries 
keep  the  pledges  and  commitments  they  have  made, 
including  meeting  the  ODA  objective  of  0.7  per  cent 
of  gross  national  income.  That  is  one  way  to  ensure 
that  acceleration  of  the  MDGs  will  lay  the  ground 
for  a  strong  post-2015  United  Nations  development 
agenda, inclusive of sustainable development goals, as 
we agreed at last year’s United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development in Brazil.
Our  post-2015  development  agenda  must  of 
necessity  be  a  unified  agenda  and  will  require  a 
coherent  financing  strategy  for  its  implementation.  It 
therefore follows that such a strategy will need to build 
on  existing  international  agreements,  as  enshrined  in 
the Monterrey Consensus and Doha Declaration, and its 
successful implementation will need global cooperation 
in  the  form  of  multi-stakeholder  partnerships  among 
Governments, the private sector and civil society.
We  will  also  need  to  address  today’s  challenges, 
including  climate  change,  food  security  and  financial 
stability;  respond  to  new  and  emerging  challenges 
and  opportunities;  and  be  both  dynamic  and  flexible. 
Any  new  framework  will  require  greater  coherence 
and  consistency  across  various  United  Nations 
intergovernmental 
those 
relating  to  sustainable  development  and  financing 
for  development,  so  as  to  enable  us  to  answer  the 
following key questions: how can the financing for the 
development  process  help  shape  the  post-2015  United 
Nations  development  agenda,  and  how  can  the  three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development  be  integrated 
into one financing framework?
processes, 
including 
Implementing  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
will  require  significant  resource  mobilization,  and 
although  initial  estimates  of  financing  needs  for 
2/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
sustainable  development  are  of  necessity  imprecise, 
studies  conclude,  without  exception,  that  they  are 
extremely  large.  While  the  fulfilment  of  all  ODA 
commitments  remains  critical,  it  is  clear  that  the 
financing  needs  will  outpace  public  sector  resources 
in  many  countries.  The  good  news  is  that  estimated 
financing needs represent only a relatively small portion 
of global savings. The broader challenge, however, lies 
in promoting a financial system that can stimulate the 
reallocation  of  a  small  percentage  of  global  savings 
towards sustainable development.
As enshrined in the Monterrey Consensus and Doha 
Declaration,  both  private  and  public  financing  from 
domestic  and  international  sources  will  be  necessary. 
The effective mobilization of domestic public resources 
will ultimately come from sustained domestic growth, 
which in turn depends on strong domestic institutions, 
effective  macroeconomic  policymaking,  sustainable 
debt financing and a fair international trading system. 
It  will  also  require  good  governance,  including  the 
elimination of corruption and waste.
New  and  innovative  sources  of  financing  will  be 
needed  to  supplement  traditional  ODA,  and  South-
South cooperation will need to be further enhanced as a 
complement to North-South and triangular cooperation 
in order to provide greater opportunities for sustained 
economic growth.
Financing  for  development  is  critical  for  the 
expeditious  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  for  laying 
the groundwork for a strong post-2015 United Nations 
development  agenda  with  sustainable  development 
goals  at  its  core.  This  unified  agenda  will  require 
one  financing  strategy  that  builds  on  the  agreements 
enshrined  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha 
Declaration  and  creates  an  enabling  environment 
for  delivering  the  relevant  means  of  implementation, 
particularly finance, technology and capacity-building.
This  two-day  High-level  Dialogue  provides  a 
timely opportunity to assess the issue of financing for 
sustainable  development  in  an  integrated  manner  and 
in  the  context  of  the  post-2015  development  process. 
Let us ensure that this Dialogue provides an important 
milestone 
in  our  common  quest  for  sustainable 
development for all.
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
Excellency Ban Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  I  thank  members  and 
others  here  today  for  their  participation  and  welcome 
them  to  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for 
Development.  In  2002,  world  leaders  gathered  in 
Monterrey,  Mexico,  for  the  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development.  Together,  they  helped 
put in motion a bold new partnership for development.
More  than  a  decade  later,  we  find  ourselves  at 
another  important  juncture.  The  end  of  the  year  2015 
will soon be upon us, and we must spare no effort to meet 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  that  deadline. 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  working  on  a  post-2015 
development framework containing a single set of goals 
with sustainable development at its core. The financing 
needed to meet these challenges will be significant. It 
will require a robust framework, including both public 
and private resources.
I  am  deeply  concerned  about  the  recent  decline 
in  official  development  assistance  (ODA).  For  many 
developing  countries,  and  in  particular  the  most 
vulnerable, predictable levels of ODA remain critical. I 
encourage all countries to fulfil their pledges and meet 
their ODA targets, including through the principles and 
actions  set  out  in  the  Busan  Partnership  for  Effective 
Development Cooperation.
However, we know that international public finance 
will  not  be  sufficient  to  build  a  more  sustainable  and 
prosperous  world.  Financing  and  investment  from 
the  private  sector  will  play  an  increasingly  vital  role. 
The  public  sector  can  help  leverage  private  resources 
and  encourage 
investment.  Domestic 
public finance, including broadening the tax base and 
improving  tax  administration,  remains  crucial  and 
represents  the  commitment  of  national  ownership  of 
Governments  for  their  own  development  agenda.  We 
must  join  forces  to  eliminate  illicit  financial  flows, 
enhance  the  regulation  of  secrecy  jurisdictions  and 
promote asset recovery.
long-term 
South-South  and  triangular  cooperation  is  also 
growing  and  now  encompasses  many 
important 
areas,  including  infrastructure  investment,  technical 
cooperation, 
and 
information-sharing.
development 
research 
and 
Looking  ahead,  we  must  put  sustainability  at  the 
core  of  the  financing  for  development  process.  We 
have  high  expectations  for  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing,  which  will  propose  options  for  a  strategy 
to facilitate the mobilization and use of resources. The 
financing for development process, with its wide range 
13-50226
3/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
of stakeholders and important contributions from civil 
society, remains a distinctive platform for cooperation 
and coordination.
for 
targets 
As  we  work  together  to  formulate  our  vision, 
principles,  goals  and 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  let  our  efforts  be  firmly  rooted 
in  a  sound  financing  strategy  based  on  mutual 
accountability  and  shared  responsibilities.  We  are  all 
aware of the constraints on finance today, and yet the 
successes  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
other  development  initiatives  clearly  show  that  smart 
investments  will  make  a  lasting  difference  in  the 
lives of families, communities and societies. A strong 
financial  commitment  to  human  solidarity  today  will 
improve prosperity and security tomorrow.
Together, let us take the spirit of Monterrey into a 
new era and come together for a more sustainable planet 
and a life of dignity for all. I thank the Assembly for 
its commitment to these goals and wish it a productive 
meeting.
The  President:  I  would  like  to  remind  members 
that, pursuant to its resolution 67/300, of 16 September 
2013, the Assembly decided that the modalities of this 
Dialogue  will  be  the  same  as  those  described  in  its 
resolution 65/314, of 12 September 2011.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Masood  Khan,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Pakistan  to  the  United 
Nations,  who  is  also  Vice-President  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council.
Mr.  Khan  (Pakistan),  Vice-President  of 
the 
Economic and Social Council: It is a great honour for 
me to address the General Assembly’s sixth High-level 
Dialogue on Financing for Development.
A lot has been achieved since the adoption of the 
Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration in the 
mobilization  of  domestic  and  international  resources, 
including  official  development  assistance  (ODA),  in 
advancing  international  trade  and  managing  external 
debt, and in enhancing the coherence and consistency 
of  the  international  monetary,  financial  and  trading 
systems in support of development.
The  financing  for  development  process  also 
provides  a  financing  framework  for  achieving  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and gives 
specificity  to  the  global  partnership  for  development 
embodied  in  MDG  8.  We  have  witnessed  remarkable 
progress  in  our  quest  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Several 
targets have been met already; all will be met by 2015. 
Even  the  poorest  countries  have  achieved  significant 
gains.  Yet  progress  is  insufficient  and  uneven  among 
and  within  countries.  The  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  caused  serious  setbacks,  highlighting 
the continued presence of systemic weaknesses in the 
global financial and monetary system. As we approach 
2015,  we  must  strengthen  our  efforts  to  accelerate 
progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs.  That  has  also 
set the stage for an ambitious sustainable development 
agenda beyond 2015.
The 
future  development  agenda  has 
to  be 
underwritten  by  a  strong  financing  framework  and 
a  renewed  and  strengthened  global  partnership  for 
development, building on the Monterrey Consensus and 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development. 
Such a framework can provide a strong foundation for 
securing sustainable development globally.
role 
the 
financing 
in  advancing 
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  plays  an 
important 
for 
development  agenda.  In  2013,  we  held  a  number  of 
important discussions to assess different options and to 
debate a renewed and strengthened global partnership 
for  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  A  number  of 
key  messages  emerged  from  those  meetings.  Most 
importantly,  a  renewed  partnership  must  build  on  the 
strength of MDG 8 and the current partnership as set 
out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration on Financing for 
Development.  It  should  take  into  account  all  existing 
commitments on development finance but also respond 
to  changes  in  the  global  environment  and  the  new 
challenges that have emerged.
In April this year, we held the annual Special High-
level  Meeting  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade and Development. We discussed financing options 
for a post-2015 sustainable development agenda as one 
its  main  topics.  That  was  followed  by  an  Economic 
and  Social  Council  panel  discussion  on  financing  for 
sustainable development at the July session in Geneva.
Those  discussions  emphasized  that  strengthening 
the financing for development strategy is a key priority 
for  the  international  community  as  it  proceeds  in 
formulating a new sustainable development agenda. In 
view of the extremely large financing needs, all sources 
of  financing  —  domestic  and  external,  private  and 
4/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
public — will need to be considered in that strategy and 
their  complementarities  greatly  strengthened.  Public 
sources  will  remain  critical,  and  it  is  imperative  that 
developed  countries  fulfil  their  official  development 
assistance  commitments.  Developing  countries  and 
the least developed countries in particular suffer from 
the recent decline in ODA. At the same time, domestic 
resource  mobilization  needs 
to  be  strengthened. 
International  tax  cooperation  remains  crucial.  Means 
of  improving  the  institutional  arrangements  for  tax 
cooperation  were  discussed  at  the  special  meeting  of 
the Committee of Experts on International Cooperation 
in Tax Matters in May this year.
Public sources of financing alone will not suffice. 
A  financing  strategy  for  sustainable  development 
will have to put greater emphasis on directing private 
flows  towards  sustainable  development  investments. 
Public funds can be used to leverage private resources. 
Examples  of  creative  strategies  being  used  to  do  that 
were  presented  at  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
panel  discussion.  A  more  stable  financial  system  and 
an  enabling  policy  environment  will  be  prerequisites 
to facilitate such investments, particularly in the areas 
that  are  currently  underfunded  by  the  private  sector. 
Those include long-term investments in infrastructure, 
riskier  investments  such  as  small  and  medium-size 
enterprises,  low-carbon  technologies  and  innovations 
and financing for the global commons.
We also discussed the contours and purposes of a 
renewed and strengthened global partnership for the post-
2015 era at the annual high-level meeting in April and at a 
high-level symposium of the Development Cooperation 
Forum in Ethiopia in June this year. In its most recent 
resolution  on  strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council (resolution 68/1), the General Assembly called 
on  the  Council  to  continue  to  strengthen  and  further 
promote  dialogue  on  implementation  of  the  financing 
for the development agenda by strengthening existing 
arrangements, including its special high-level meeting 
with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development,  to  be  held  immediately  following  the 
annual  spring  meetings  of  the  joint  IMF-World  Bank 
Group  Development  Committee.  The  Council  should 
also continue to allocate specific time for deliberation 
and consideration of the follow-up to the International 
Conference on Financing for Development.
The financing for development process touches on 
many of the key elements of a sustainable development 
agenda  beyond  2015.  The  Monterrey  Consensus  and 
the Doha Declaration remain major reference points in 
international development cooperation.
the 
formulation  of 
As  we  elaborate  our  new  development  agenda  in 
the  months  ahead,  we  have  to  ensure  coherence  and 
consistency  between  the  financing  for  development 
process  and 
the  means  of 
implementation  for  sustainable  development  goals. 
The  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of 
Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing  to  be 
presented  in  a  year’s  time  should  build  on  Monterrey 
and Doha and present us with options for an effective, 
sustainable  development  financing  strategy.  I  am 
confident that our deliberations over the next two days 
can  bring  important  insights  towards  formulating  a 
financing  framework  and  a  strengthened  partnership 
for sustainable development in a new global context. I 
wish all of us a fruitful discussion in a cooperative and 
productive spirit.
The President: I now give the floor to Mr. Mukhisa 
the  United  Nations 
Kituyi,  Secretary-General  of 
Conference on Trade and Development.
Mr. Kituyi (United Nations Conference on Trade 
and  Development):  It  is  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to 
address the sixth High-level Dialogue on Financing for 
Development and to offer a few brief thoughts on the 
state  of  implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
and, more important, suggestions for the way forward.
After years of neglect, the Monterrey Conference 
put development finance firmly back on the multilateral 
agenda. And yet, we are all aware of the slow progress 
that  has  been  made  since  then.  As  mentioned  by  the 
other speakers this morning, five years after the global 
crisis, financing for development is diminishing across 
the  board.  Public  debts  have  been  mounting.  Official 
development  assistance  declined  to  approximately 
$126  billion  in  2012,  and  is  under  further  downward 
pressure.  In  the  same  year,  developing  countries  saw 
the growth of their exports slow down to approximately 
3.8 per cent and an actual 4 per cent decline in foreign 
direct  investment  inflows,  to  $703  billion.  Only 
remittances,  standing  at  approximately  $375  billion 
in  2012,  have  seen  a  mild  increase,  but  these  flows 
still  need  to  be  channelled  better  into  productive 
investments.
While  the  supply  of  development  finance  is 
diminishing,  the  needs  are  growing.  In  addition  to 
the  existing  needs  to  fully  achieve  the  Millennium 
13-50226
5/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
Development Goals (MDGs), we must consider the costs 
of the broader post-2015 development agenda, including 
the  need  to  mitigate  and  adapt  to  climate  change, 
which  will  require  an  unprecedented  transformation 
of  production  and  consumption  patterns  in  the  world 
economy.  Achieving 
the  sustainable  development 
goals  (SDGs),  whatever  their  final  form,  will  require 
investment  well  above  current  levels  in  agriculture, 
infrastructure and other areas of sustainable investment. 
For example, in agriculture, the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations estimates that new 
investments  in  the  amount  of  $83  billion  are  needed 
annually  to  meet  projected  demand  for  agricultural 
products  in  2050  in  93  developing  countries.  Of  that 
amount,  sub-Saharan  Africa  alone  requires  over 
$10 billion per year.
When  it  comes  to  infrastructure,  the  McKinsey 
Global  Institute  estimates  that  some  $57  trillion  in 
total  global  infrastructure  investment  is  required 
between  now  and  2030,  much  of  it  in  the  developing 
world. Africa’s annual infrastructure needs are at least 
$93 billion.
With  regard  to  addressing  climate  change,  the 
United  Nations  Department  of  Economic  and  Social 
Affairs has estimated a staggering $1.9 trillion per year 
in additional financing needs.
Against that backdrop, allow me to say a few words 
on how I see the way forward. The first priority must, 
of course, be implementation and scaling up. Given the 
expansion in financing needs, we can no longer afford 
complacency.  We  must  implement  the  commitments 
made.  But  we  should  also  look  beyond  Monterrey 
towards the post-2015 development agenda. We need to 
formulate a global strategic framework for investing in 
the  sustainable  development  goals.  Such  a  framework 
should  include  three  core  elements:  mobilizing  the 
resources,  channelling  them  into  the  priority  sectors 
and  maximizing  their  development  impact  on  the 
ground.
With regard to the mobilization of financing, it is 
clear  that  public  sources  must  increase  significantly, 
even  as  private  sources  need  to  be  much  more 
vigorously  tapped  and  harnessed.  Here,  the  news  is 
not  all  bad.  There  is  a  large  pool  of  potential  capital 
available to be tapped. Allow me to mention just two 
such  examples.  Firstly,  the  assets  held  by  sovereign 
wealth  funds  today  approach  $5.8  trillion  and,  while 
most  of  these  are  portfolio  investments  in  advanced 
economies, efforts are being made to channel a share of 
them to developing country projects. Secondly, pension 
fund holdings in the countries of the Organization for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  alone  have 
reached $20 trillion. While there are strict rules on how 
these can be used, just as with sovereign wealth funds, 
they  are  potentially  a  major  source  for  development 
financing.
Harnessing  and  channelling  those  resources  into 
sustainable investment projects in the developing world 
will require innovative policy thinking. As an example, 
we  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development  have  developed  an  investment  policy 
framework  for  sustainable  development,  which  aims 
to mainstream sustainable development in national and 
international investment regimes.
The  second  issue  I  would  like  to  highlight  is 
prioritization. We must channel the resources mobilized 
strategically into priority sectors and target countries. 
Here,  I  would  reiterate  that  while  global  attention  is 
already  turning  to  the  post-2015  agenda,  a  great  deal 
of  work  remains  to  be  done  on  meeting  the  MDGs. 
Targeted  investments  to  support  key  sectors  and 
projects, in particular in least developed countries, can 
achieve the final push. In prioritizing the allocation of 
development resources, we must also bear in mind that 
social achievements, such as improved health care and 
education,  will  ultimately  be  sustainable  only  if  they 
are  underpinned  by  solid  economic  growth.  Indeed, 
inclusive  economic  growth  was  the  most  significant 
factor  in  the  progress  achieved  with  respect  to  many 
MDGs. Aid and investment targeted at economic sectors 
and building productive capacities should therefore be 
scaled up.
The  third  issue  is  effective  monitoring.  The 
Monterrey  Conference  was  convened  against 
the 
backdrop of the MDGs, and yet the commitments made 
on  MDG  8,  the  partnership  on  development,  are  less 
ambitious than those in the Monterrey document. Even 
against that more limited standard, progress has been 
lacking.  As  the  international  community  begins  to 
think about the post-2015 development agenda, we need 
to embrace the financing for development process as a 
road map for addressing the systemic and interrelated 
economic  and  financial  issues,  which  will  determine 
just  how  successful  we  are  in  making  development  a 
truly  sustainable  and  inclusive  process.  Ideally,  the 
SDGs  should  include  a  goal  similar  to  MDG  8,  but 
based on the wider financing for development process.
6/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
The  fourth  and  final  issue  I  would  like  to  flag 
today  is  systemic  reform.  Of  all  the  chapters  in 
the  Monterrey  and  Doha  outcome  documents,  the 
one  addressing  systemic  issues  has  seen  the  least 
progress  in  implementation.  It  is  inconceivable  that 
even  after  the  largest  financial  crisis  in  70  years, 
financial  governance  reforms  at  the  global  level  have 
remained  timid  and  ad  hoc.  Addressing  the  roots  of 
the  current  crisis  will  require  far  deeper  reforms  of 
the  global  financial  system.  These  include  measures 
to better regulate speculative financial flows, improve 
exchange-rate  management  and  prevent  the  build-up 
of  global  imbalances.  Most  important,  reform  must 
ensure that global finance serves the real economy and 
supports productive activities.
Yet,  any  reform  of  the  financial  system  can  only 
be  legitimate  if  developing  countries  are  adequately 
represented in global financial institutions and if their 
voices  are  heard.  The  United  Nations,  as  the  only 
institution  with  universal  membership,  can  make  an 
important  contribution  to  the  deliberations  on  global 
governance reform.
As we meet here today, deliberations on the post-
2015  agenda  are  intensifying  across  the  globe.  But  a 
new  set  of  development  goals  would  be  meaningless 
without  complementary  progress  on  financing.  The 
implementation  and  scaling  up  of  financing  for 
development should therefore be an integral part of this 
debate as it is a key catalyst for development progress 
beyond 2015.
The President: I should now like to turn to some 
organizational  matters  pertaining  to  the  conduct  of 
our meeting. With respect to the length of statements, 
speakers are encouraged to limit their statements to five 
minutes for national statements and seven minutes for 
statements  on  behalf  of  groups,  on  the  understanding 
that  that  will  not  preclude  the  distribution  of  more 
extensive  texts.  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  speakers  to 
cooperate in that respect.
To  assist  speakers  in  managing  their  time  a  light 
system has been installed at the speakers’ rostrum that 
functions as follows. A green light will be activated at 
the start of the speaker’s statement, an orange light will 
be  activated  30  seconds  before  the  end  of  the  five  or 
seven  minutes  and  a  red  light  will  be  activated  when 
the five- or seven-minute time limit has been reached.
Mr.  Back  (Australia):  Australia  welcomes  the 
opportunity provided by this dialogue to take stock of 
development financing achievements and challenges. It 
is also a time to recall international realities and identify 
the sources of, and approaches to, financing that will 
truly drive development. Work is under way to develop 
the post-2015 development framework. Discussions on 
how  we  will  implement  and  finance  it  are  beginning. 
But the world has changed since we committed to the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  2000  and  later  to 
their financing.
Rapid  and  sustained  economic  growth  in  Asia 
has  changed  economic  and  financial  capacities  in  the 
region, with global implications. Developing countries 
have  led  the  recovery  in  world  trade  since  the  global 
financial crisis. They are driving growth in the global 
economy,  a  trend  that  is  expected  to  continue.  Those 
changes  have  driven  shifts  in  the  relative  size  and 
importance  of  different  types  of  finance  available  to 
developing countries.
trillion 
in  2000 
from  $2.2 
Domestic  government  spending  in  developing 
countries  grew 
to 
$5.9  trillion  in  2011.  Foreign  direct  investment  in 
developing countries grew from $150 billion in 2000 to 
$650 billion in 2011, representing a fourfold increase. 
In comparison, official development assistance (ODA) 
increased from $80 billion in 2000 to $130 billion 10 
years later. However, ODA is still an important source 
of  finance  for  development,  particularly  in  small 
economies.  It  continues  to  play  a  significant  role  in 
supporting  economic  reforms  and  good  governance, 
promoting the rule of law and building the productive 
capacity  of  trade-related  sectors.  While  ODA  still 
represents the largest international flow of finance in 
43 countries, in 1990 it was the largest source of finance 
in  95  countries.  Therefore,  its  importance  in  many 
countries has decreased. In many developing countries, 
particularly in Asia and the rapidly growing economies 
of  Africa,  other  sources  of  finance  are  proving  more 
effective at generating economic growth.
The  Monterrey  Consensus  of  the  International 
Conference on Financing for Development and the Doha 
Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development  provide  a 
good basis for discussions on financing the post-2015 
framework.  The  Monterrey  Consensus  highlighted 
multiple  sources  of  finance  for  development  at  the 
domestic  and  international  levels,  including  public 
and  private  sources,  the  role  of  trade  as  an  engine 
for  development  and  the  importance  of  sustainable 
debt  management.  The  Monterrey  Consensus  also 
underlined the importance of an enabling international 
13-50226
7/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
financial,  monetary  and  trading  system  conducive  to 
development.
It is clear that trade continues to be an important 
driver  of  development.  The  economic  growth  of 
developing  countries  can  be  unlocked  through  trade. 
That  is  why  Australia  will  continue  to  promote  trade 
liberalization  at  the  global  level  through  the  World 
Trade  Organization  and  at  the  regional  and  bilateral 
levels. That will be a key theme for us when we chair 
the Group of 20 in 2014.
Other  sources  of  finance  are  also  growing  in 
importance.  Private  development  assistance  from 
individuals  through  non-governmental  organizations, 
foundations  and  corporate  giving  is  growing  much 
faster 
than  ODA,  although  from  a  small  base. 
Moreover,  development  cooperation  from  developing 
countries  —  South-South  cooperation  —  will  be  an 
integral part of financing the post-2015 framework.
Since  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  there  has  also 
been  an  increasing  focus  on  the  importance  of  a 
vibrant private sector in developing countries to drive 
long-term  economic  growth.  The  private  sector  will 
provide capital for investment and innovative solutions 
to  development  challenges.  Building  domestic  and 
international  enabling  environments  for  a  robust 
private sector will therefore be a crucial component of 
financing for development.
The  focus  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  was  on 
mobilizing  finance  for  development.  Mobilization  is 
important,  but  will  not  be  enough.  This  time  around 
we will need to expand the focus of our discussions to 
look at how poor countries are able to access and attract 
international  flows  of  finance.  The  experience  of  the 
past  10  years  has  shown  that  many  small  countries, 
least  developed  countries  and  fragile  States  have 
largely missed out on the growth enjoyed by developing 
countries that have had access to international trade and 
investment opportunities. Helping the former countries 
access  similar  opportunities  is  vital.  Spending  funds 
effectively  in  order  to  maximize  their  contribution  to 
economic  growth  will  be  another  integral  part  of  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
We are looking forward to discussions on financing 
for  development  that  are  grounded  in  current  global 
economic realities. We need to learn from public- and 
private-sector  experience  and  use  such  experience  to 
inform future financing decisions. We need to develop 
strong partnerships with a range of development actors, 
particularly the private sector. Australia is committed 
to  playing  its  part  in  that  effort.  Concrete  steps  need 
to be taken to assist developing countries build, access 
and effectively use multiple sources of finance to drive 
sustainable economic growth.
Mr. Thomson (Fiji): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the 133 member States of the Group of 77 and 
China.
I would like to thank the President for convening 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on  the  important  theme 
focusing  on  the  status  of  implementation  and  tasks 
ahead in relation to the Monterrey Consensus and the 
Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development.  I 
would also like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
report  on  the  follow-up  to  and  implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus and Doha Declaration (A/68/357).
The  Group  of  77  and  China  shares  a  number  of 
concerns  identified  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/68/357),  particularly  in  the  areas  of  international 
financial  and  technical  cooperation  for  development, 
international  trade,  external  debt  and  the  need  to 
address systemic issues to enhance the coherence and 
consistency  of  the  international  monetary,  financial 
and trading systems in supporting development.
Consistent  with  the  theme  of  the  High-level 
Dialogue, the Group wishes to recall paragraph 90 of 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development 
and  the  decision  contained  in  resolution  67/199  to 
hold  informal  consultations  with  a  view  to  taking  a 
final  decision  on  the  need  for  a  follow-up  conference 
on financing for development by 2013. With less than 
three  months  to  go  before  the  end  of  2013,  we  would 
like to urge the President, in his capacity as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, to 
appoint  co-facilitators  before  the  end  of  the  year  and 
to  hold  open,  inclusive  and  direct  intergovernmental 
consultations,  with  the  participation  of  all  Member 
States, on all issues related to the conference.
In  view  of  the  development  summit  at  the  level 
of  heads  of  State  and  Government,  mandated  to  be 
held  in  September  2015,  for  the  adoption  of  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  the  Group  believes  that  a 
follow-up  international  conference  on  financing  for 
development should be held before the end of 2015, in 
order for the conference to contribute meaningfully to 
the post-2015 development agenda process.
On  the  modalities  of  financing  for  development 
and arrangements to strengthen the follow-up process, 
8/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
the Group reiterates its call for the establishment of an 
appropriate  follow-up  mechanism  within  the  United 
Nations  system,  a  commission  or  subsidiary  body  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  financing  for 
development to bridge the gap between policy-making 
and the implementation of commitments, as well as to 
ensure the necessary support for the implementation of 
the internationally agreed development goals.
The  Group  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly to convene at the current session a separate 
meeting  of  the  Second  Committee  under  the  item 
“Macroeconomic policy questions” to discuss actions in 
response to the world financial and economic crisis and 
its impact on development, as a further contribution to 
the follow-up to the Conference on the World Financial 
and Economic Crisis and its Impact on Development.
Given  the  importance  of  that  agenda  item  for 
developing  countries,  the  Group  will  submit  four 
draft  resolutions  relating  to  international  trade  and 
development, 
system 
and  development,  external  debt  sustainability  and 
development, and commodities to the upcoming Second 
Committee session.
international 
the 
financial 
The Group of 77 reiterates its view that the global 
financial  and  economic  crisis  cannot  be  used  as  a 
convenient justification for developed partners to avoid 
fulfilling existing international financial and technical 
cooperation  for  development.  It  is  ironic  that  official 
development assistance (ODA) continues to decline as 
our  leaders  reaffirmed  recently,  at  the  special  event 
on  MDGs,  their  commitment  to  accelerate  progress 
towards achieving the MDGs by the 2015 deadline and 
anticipate  elaborating  a  bold  post-2015  development 
agenda, with poverty eradication and sustainability as 
its core.
While  ODA  alone  is  insufficient  to  meet  the 
full  sustainable-development  needs  of  developing 
countries,  it  remains  crucial  for  countries  without 
sufficient  resources  to  fulfil  the  development  goals. 
An enhanced, predictable and sustainable flow of ODA 
is  essential  in  order  to  meet  the  regular  development 
challenges, as well as new and emerging challenges in 
developing  countries,  in  particular  in  least-developed 
countries (LDCs). In that respect, the Group expresses 
its  deep  concern  that,  for  the  second  time,  ODA  fell 
for two consecutive years and that developed countries, 
with a few exceptions, are still far from achieving the 
long-outstanding  goal  of  mobilizing  0.7  per  cent  of 
gross  national  product  (GNP)  as  ODA  to  developing 
countries, including the target of 0.15-0.20 per cent of 
GNP to the LDCs.
Moreover,  given  the  urgency  and  seriousness  of 
climate change, the operationalization and capitalization 
of  the  Green  Climate  Fund  by  early  2014  must  be 
prioritized and scaled up to reach $100 billion per year 
by  2020.  In  the  context  of  sustainable  development, 
the  Fund  will  play  a  key  role  in  channelling  new, 
additional, adequate and predictable financial resources 
to  developing  countries  and  will  catalyse  climate 
change-related finance, both public and private, and at 
both the international and the national levels.
The G-77 recognizes that innovative mechanisms of 
financing can make a positive contribution in assisting 
developing  countries  to  mobilize  additional  resources 
for development on a stable, predictable and voluntary 
basis
We  reiterate  that  such  financing  should  neither 
substitute for nor negatively affect the level of traditional 
sources  of  development  financing,  including  ODA. 
We  believe  that  there  has  been  considerable  progress 
in  innovative  sources  of  financing  for  development, 
although it is important to scale up present initiatives 
and develop new mechanisms, as appropriate. Priorities 
should  remain  focused,  in  particular,  on  providing 
additional,  stable  and  supplementary  resources  to 
traditional  development  financing,  particularly 
in 
favour of developing countries.
and 
The  Monterrey  Consensus 
the  Doha 
Declaration  also  stress  the  importance  of  remittances 
for  development.  The  Group  supports  the  call  of  the 
Secretary-General, contained in his report (A/68/357), 
for source and destination countries to collaborate with 
a view to reducing the transaction costs of remittances, 
and where possible, relax legal and funding barriers to 
remittances and other financial flows by migrants.
Debt  crisis  is  costly  and  disruptive  and  often 
followed by cuts in public spending, adversely affecting 
developing countries. There is no path to growth and no 
success in poverty eradication with unsustainable debt 
overhang. Debt relief and sovereign debt management 
are, therefore, crucial issues for developing countries. 
In  that  regard,  the  Group  reiterates  its  call  for  the 
international  community  to  urgently  examine  options 
independent 
for  an  effective,  equitable,  durable, 
and  development-friendly  debt-restructuring 
and 
international debt-resolution mechanism.
13-50226
9/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
The Group views international trade as an engine 
for  development.  In  that  regard,  a  fair  multilateral 
trading system is essential in order to ensure sustained 
growth  in  global  trade  and  create  new  market  access 
and opportunities for developing countries. We believe 
that  the  ninth  Ministerial  Conference  of  the  World 
Trade  Organization  (WTO),  scheduled  to  take  place 
in Bali in December 2013, will provide an opportunity 
to advance the Doha Round of trade negotiations and 
break the long-standing impasse. The Bali Conference 
should fully respect the WTO’s development mandate 
and  take  into  account  the  needs  and  priorities  of 
developing countries.
Lastly,  the  Group  of  77  wishes  to  underscore 
the  importance  of  having  a  favourable  and  enabling 
international  environment  to  complement  developing 
countries’  national  efforts  in  eradicating  poverty 
and  advancing  their  level  of  development.  Systemic 
shortcomings  of  the  international  monetary,  financial 
and  economic  institutions  must  be  addressed  through 
serious  reforms.  A  more  inclusive  framework  of 
global  economic  governance  is  required  to  improve 
the  functioning,  stability  and  resilience  of  those 
institutions.  It  requires  a  strengthened  role  and 
increased effectiveness of the United Nations, including 
high-level engagements with all relevant international 
and  regional  financial  institutions  and  other  relevant 
stakeholders.
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  On  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, I would like to express our appreciation to you, 
Sir,  for  organizing  this  timely  and  important  High-
level Dialogue. We thank the Secretary-General for his 
report (A/68/221). Indeed, we share the views expressed 
by the Chair of the Group of 77 and China, of which we 
form a vital part.
We are convening this Dialogue at a time of great 
uncertainty and, at the same time, of enormous hope. 
The uncertainty pertains to the situation with respect to 
the global economy, which has yet to recover fully from 
the crisis that began five years ago. Alhough there has 
undoubtedly there been improvement, the recovery has 
been sluggish. Hope, on the other hand, can be seen in 
the unprecedented positive conditions that characterize 
many  economies  in  the  developing  world,  including 
those in Africa.
We  all  recall  that  the  high-level  events  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  held  two 
weeks  ago  concluded  that  more  needed  to  be  done  if 
we  were  to  achieve  the  Goals  by  the  deadline.  That 
outcome  once  again  made  it  abundantly  clear  that 
strengthening international development cooperation is 
key to achieving the MDGs. As we stand at the dawn 
of a new era and embark upon the task of formulating 
a  new  global  development  framework,  international 
development cooperation should remain at the heart of 
the process.
In  few  days’  time,  finance  ministers,  central 
bankers, private-sector executives and academics from 
around the world will gather in Washington, D.C., for 
the annual meeting of the World Bank Group and the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  We  believe  that  it  will 
be  an  opportunity  of  which  policy-makers  should 
make effective use to deliberate and agree on concrete 
measures  that  need  to  be  taken,  not  only  to  speed  up 
the recovery of the global economy but also to lay the 
basis for greater readiness to participate in effectively 
financing  development.  For  low-income  countries  to 
mitigate the effects of global economic slowdown, it is 
critical that they continue to rebuild their fiscal buffers 
so  as  to  maintain  growth  and  preserve  spending  in 
social sectors and public investment. We hope that this 
will be one of the key policy recommendations that will 
come out of that meeting.
It is true that some steps have been taken over the 
past decade in implementing the Monterrey Consensus, 
but  much  more  still  remains  to  be  done.  According 
to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/68/357),  official 
development assistance fell in real terms for a second 
consecutive  year  in  2012,  with  many  Development 
Assistance  Committee  (DAC)  member  countries  still 
unable to achieve the 0.7 per cent target. Aid to least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  also  fell,  with  only  10 
DAC members reaching the target. What the Secretary-
General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development said to this meeting is indeed very valid. 
It is therefore critical for development partners to meet 
the commitments they made in Monterrey and Doha if 
we are to embark on a promising journey in 2015.
We also need much more determined efforts that go 
beyond the current circumstances to address new and 
emerging challenges, such as climate change. We need 
to  join  efforts  to  establish  a  binding  climate  regime 
with  specific  targets  by  2015.  And  our  development 
partners  in  the  developed  world  must  be  committed 
to raising $100 billion per year by 2020 for the Green 
Climate  Fund  in  order  to  help  developing  countries 
adapt meaningfully to climate change and mitigate its 
effects.
10/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
Last  year  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we took a historic 
decision by which we agreed that extreme poverty was 
the  overarching  challenge  faced  by  the  international 
community,  and  to  address  that  in  the  context  of 
sustainable  development,  taking  into  account  the 
interests of present and future generations by focusing 
on  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable  development.  With 
respect  to  the  core  challenge  we  face,  poverty,  it 
must  be  stressed  that  its  eradication  in  a  sustainable 
manner  cannot  be  conceived  of  outside  the  context 
of  adding  value  —  the  expansion  of  manufacturing 
and  industrialization.  In  other  words,  countries  such 
as  those  in  Africa  must  be  assisted  in  their  efforts  to 
bring  about  structural  transformation,  without  which 
effective  strides  toward  eradicating  poverty  cannot 
be taken. In our view, that is the same conviction that 
should guide the Open Working Group on Sustainable 
Development Goals.
We  in  Africa  have  made  significant  strides  in 
achieving  our  development  objectives.  Some  of  the 
fastest-growing economies in the world are now found 
in Africa. The flow of foreign direct investment is also 
increasing,  with  emerging  economies  playing  a  key 
role, in particular in critical sectors contributing to the 
development process on the continent.
Despite such achievements, the economic structure 
of many countries on the continent has yet to develop 
adequately to address the various social and economic 
challenges and to achieve the economic transformation 
that is so critical, in particular for eradicating poverty 
in a sustainable manner.
In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  the  major  part  of 
development  financing  should  be  geared  towards 
enhancing  the  capacity  of  developing  countries  to 
mobilize  domestic  resources.  We  are  well  aware 
that  economic  development  is  a  domestically  driven 
enterprise,  and  no  amount  of  foreign  assistance 
or  investment  can  substitute  a  coherent,  dynamic 
and  domestically  driven 
accumulation, 
intermediation and mobilization process. It is therefore 
paramount that if we are to address the gaps in domestic 
resource mobilization, development cooperation should 
aim  at  addressing  institutional  constraints  so  as  to 
create  organizations  that  have  the  responsibility  and 
capacity to initiate, plan, design and implement reforms 
to  ensure  effective  revenue  collection.  No  doubt, 
addressing  the  problem  of  supply  constraints  should 
emerge as a priority in that regard.
capital 
Furthermore,  in  our  efforts  to  ensure  sustainable 
development,  we  need  the  support  of  our  partners  in 
addressing  infrastructure  deficits,  which  still  remain 
the greatest challenges in our continent. In that regard, 
it  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  international  community 
will stand by our side to support our regional initiatives 
under  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development, 
in  particular 
Infrastructure 
Development in Africa.
the  Programme 
for 
Now  that  we  have  embarked  on  the  process  of 
formulating the post-2015 development agenda, we are 
afforded  once  again  with  an  opportunity  to  make  up 
for  lost  time.  The  commitments  made  in  Monterrey 
and  Doha  must  be  pursued  with  renewed  vigour  and 
urgently acted upon.
In  crafting  the  next  generation  of  development 
goals,  we  are  confident  that  a  stronger  means  of 
framework  implementation  will  be  put  in  place  to 
address the pressing needs of developing countries, in 
particular the LDCs, in a comprehensive and coherent 
manner.
Mr.  Bart  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I  have  the 
honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of 
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  namely, 
Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, 
Dominica,  Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago.
CARICOM  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement delivered earlier by the representative of Fiji 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Permit  me  to  use  this  occasion  to  acknowledge 
the  work  you  have  done  thus  far,  Sir,  in  your  role  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session. CARICOM welcomes the convening of the sixth 
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development. 
Indeed,  the  theme  of  this  year’s  Dialogue  —  “The 
Monterrey Consensus, Doha Declaration on Financing 
for  Development  and  related  outcomes  of  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits:  status  of 
implementation  and  tasks  ahead”  —  comes  at  a  time 
when  we  are  moving  towards  a  post-2015  agenda.  It 
therefore  affords  us  an  opportune  moment  to  assess 
the status of development cooperation, exchange views 
and renew efforts towards commitments set out by the 
international community at Monterrey and Doha.
The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  along 
with the food crisis and volatile food prices, continues 
13-50226
11/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
to  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  small,  vulnerable 
economies  of  developing  countries.  For  many,  the 
achievement of the internationally agreed development 
goals,  with  particular  reference  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  has  been  severely 
hampered. As we head into the post-2015 development 
framework, therefore, it is incumbent upon us all to use 
the next two days to determine ways in which we can 
address  the  issue  of  the  availability  of  domestic  and 
international  financing  for  development  and  the  very 
real  impact  such  financing  has  on  the  development 
cooperation landscape.
As  we  continue  to  grapple  with  the  global  and 
economic  crisis,  the  integrated  framework  adopted 
by  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and,  later,  the  Doha 
Declaration, provides a useful platform for international 
cooperation on economic and financial issues that will 
help  countries  to  overcome  multifaceted  development 
challenges 
poverty 
eradication and sustainable development.
undermine 
ultimately 
that 
CARICOM  can  never  overstate  its  concern  over 
the  insignificant  recognition  by  the  international 
community of the needs and concerns of small, open, 
vulnerable  and  highly  indebted  economies  like  ours, 
which by virtue of per capita gross domestic product are 
classified as middle- and even high-income countries. 
That  is  a  critical  development  challenge  faced  by 
our  member  States,  many  of  which  have  a  debt-to-
gross  domestic  product  ratio  of  100  per  cent,  which 
significantly reduces available fiscal space and inhibits 
our ability to attain some of our development goals.
That  reality  is  not  overlooked  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  report  on  the  international  financial 
system and development, where he emphasizes that the 
problem of sovereign debt distress is “most acute among 
countries  in  the  Caribbean,  which  were  negatively 
impacted  by  the  financial  crisis”  (A/68/221, para. 70), 
resulting  in  several  countries  running  fiscal  deficits 
and  relying  on  increased  borrowing.  The  Secretary-
General  notes  in  the  report  that  this  year  alone,  as  a 
result  of  our  high  dependence  on  tourism  and  of  the 
erosion of trade preferences, Belize, Grenada, Jamaica 
and Saint Kitts and Nevis have all sought to restructure 
portions of their debt.
It  is  imperative  that  the  international  community, 
including the United Nations development system and 
the  international  financial  institutions,  not  only  take 
note of those facts but take a more systematic approach 
to  deal  with  the  development  needs  of  developing 
countries  that  are  categorized  as  middle-  and  high-
income countries, with the goal of providing them with 
increased  access  to  concessionary  financing.  Such  an 
approach,  which  would  incorporate  the  provision  of 
debt  relief  and  the  disbursement  of  grants  and  loans 
on  concessionary  terms,  which  are  not  available  at 
this time to middle- and high-income countries, would 
serve  to  ease  the  unsustainable  economic  situation  in 
which many small, vulnerable States find themselves.
The  financing  for  development  process  provides 
a  comprehensive  framework  for  the  mobilization  of 
resources.  While  we  note  that  economic  and  social 
development is primarily a national responsibility, the 
importance  of  international  support  in  development 
should be highlighted. In that regard, we acknowledge 
the efforts that have been made by some development 
partners  to  achieve  and,  in  some  instances,  exceed, 
the  target  of  allocating  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
income  to  official  development  assistance  (ODA),  in 
spite of the very challenging international political and 
economic environment in the past two years. However, 
we continue to remain concerned that many others have 
fallen short of meeting the target.
CARICOM  acknowledges  that,  in  our  efforts  to 
marshal  international  resources  for  development,  it  is 
essential that we assume new and innovative approaches. 
In that vein, we welcome and support the establishment 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing.  The  Committee 
has  been  tasked  with  preparing  a  report,  following  a 
year  of  work,  that  would  recommend  options  on  an 
effective  sustainable  development  financing  strategy 
to  facilitate  the  mobilization  of  resources  and  their 
effective  use  in  achieving  sustainable  development 
objectives.  With  four  of  our  members  represented  on 
the Committee, we are committed to engaging actively 
in that process and to working assiduously to comply 
with the mandate of the Committee.
financial 
resources 
The role of international trade is indispensable in 
advancing  the  development  prospects  of  developing 
countries  and  enhancing  our  capacity  to  mobilize 
domestic 
for  development. 
In  order  to  maximize  the  potential  of  trade,  it  is 
necessary  to  uphold  a  universal,  rules-based,  open, 
non-discriminatory  and  equitable  multilateral  trading 
system  that  contributes  to  growth  and  sustainable 
development. In that context, CARICOM reiterates its 
call for the conclusion of the Doha Development Round 
of negotiations, which commenced over a decade ago. 
12/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
The  failure  to  do  so  is  constricting  the  fundamental 
objective of the round and the explicit commitments to 
address development issues head on.
Pacific  Ocean,  the  Caribbean  Sea,  the  Atlantic  and 
Indian Oceans and the Mediterranean and South China 
Seas.
CARICOM  emphasizes  the  urgent  need  for  an 
informed discussion of international cooperation in tax 
matters  within  the  context  of  a  meaningful  dialogue 
on  financing  for  development,  which  is  the  common 
pursuit  of  all  countries  to  achieve  economic  growth, 
meaningful development and poverty eradication. In that 
connection,  CARICOM  welcomes  the  recent  decision 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  annualize 
the  special  meetings  of  the  Council  on  international 
tax  cooperation.  CARICOM  also  believes  that  that 
decision  represents  an  important  step  in  realizing  the 
mandate given in Doha to strengthen the institutional 
arrangements  to  promote  international  cooperation  in 
tax  matters.  In  that  context,  CARICOM  continues  to 
call  for  the  conversion  of  the  Committee  of  Experts 
on  International  Cooperation  in  Tax  Matters  into  an 
intergovernmental  subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council. CARICOM strongly believes that 
the upgrading of the Committee in that manner would 
a1low for a proper intergovernmental consideration of 
issues of international tax cooperation.
the 
for  Development  and 
The  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Doha  Declaration 
on  Financing 
related 
outcomes  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  have 
found  us  at  this  juncture,  where  the  implementation 
of commitments remains wanting and the tasks ahead 
enormous. However, CARICOM is convinced that the 
way forward lies in the political will to ensure that the 
challenges that we are up against do not multiply and 
that our development objectives are met.
towards 
As  we  work 
the  achievement  of 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  MDGs,  and  as  we  begin  to  set  the  stage  for  the 
post-2015 development agenda, one fact remains clear: 
global partnership is fundamental. Commitments have 
to  be  fulfilled.  The  Commitments  made  in  respect  of 
overseas development assistance, as well as South-South 
and triangular cooperation, as a complement to, and not 
a substitute for, traditional ODA, have to be fulfilled. 
Commitments to provide financing for climate change 
adaptation,  particularly  for  small  island  developing 
States  and  other  countries  that  are  vulnerable  to  the 
adverse impacts of climate change, have to be fulfilled.
Ms.  Young  (Belize):  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island 
States,  which  includes  countries  in  the  areas  of  the 
We  welcome  the  convening  of  the  sixth  High-
level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development,  in 
accordance  with  resolution  67/300.  It  provides  us 
with  an  opportunity  to  review  the  status  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  of  2003, 
the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development of 
2008 and the related outcomes of major United Nations 
conferences and summits.
We  are  at  a  juncture  where  the  world  is  facing 
challenges  in  all  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development —  economic, social and environmental. 
Despite  progress  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  more  than  1  billion 
people still live in extreme poverty. Income inequality 
within and between countries continues to rise. At the 
same time, unsustainable consumption and production 
patterns  have  resulted  in  huge  economic  and  social 
costs and have already endangered life on the planet.
Achieving  sustainable  development  demands  our 
collective  action  in  order  to  deliver  on  aspirations 
for  further  economic  and  social  progress  that  involve 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  employment  while 
strengthening  environmental  protection.  It  must  have 
an inclusive agenda and address the specific needs of 
countries in special cases that are vulnerable and have 
unique  challenges.  We,  the  small  island  developing 
States (SIDS), recognize that we cannot overcome our 
challenges by ourselves. In the absence of cooperation 
and  assistance  on 
international 
community, our success in that regard will remain an 
illusion.
the  part  of 
the 
the  Further  Implementation  of 
SIDS  remain  committed  to  ensuring  the  full, 
effective and efficient implementation of the Barbados 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  the  Mauritius 
Strategy  for 
the 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States  and  the  MDGs. 
We  urge  our  development  partners  to  fulfil  their 
commitments by providing, in a timely and predictable 
manner, the financial and technical support needed to 
ensure the successful implementation of the Programme 
and the Strategy, as well as other internationally agreed 
outcomes.  The  cross-cutting  connections  between  the 
outcome (resolution 66/288, annex) of the 2012 United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
13-50226
13/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
(Rio+20),  the  United  Nations  post-2015  development 
agenda  and  the  future  of  financing  for  sustainable 
development  require  comprehensive  analysis  and 
review.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  should  be 
guided  by  a  transformational  strategy  that  links  the 
Rio+20 outcomes with those of the third International 
Conference  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  to  be 
held in Samoa in 2014, and with a strategy for financing 
sustainable development. In short, we need a strategy 
that  links  national  sustainable  development  priorities 
and  the  global  development  agenda.  This  Dialogue 
therefore provides a key opportunity for discussing the 
connections. It will help guide our review of the status 
of implementation and the tasks ahead, and it will help 
guide our work to ensure that a transformational shift 
takes  place  in  the  implementation  of  both  our  agreed 
and future commitments for sustainable development.
We  underscore  the  need  to  focus  on  reducing 
poverty,  improving  access  to  basic  social  services, 
enhancing gender equality and achieving environmental 
sustainability. We must move away from unsustainable 
policy  frameworks,  such  as  fossil-fuel  subsidies, 
towards  those  that  encourage  sustainable  production 
and  consumption  patterns  while  protecting  the  most 
vulnerable from the effects of higher food and energy 
prices,  as  well  as  those  who  could  lose  out  in  the 
transition  to  green  economies  that  build  resilience 
in  our  countries  and  communities  to  climate  change 
and  other  socioeconomic  risks.  We  need  clear  and 
practical measures for securing progress in sustainable 
development.  We  must  better  inform  development 
policy  decisions  at  all  levels.  The  implementation  of 
those  key  policies  in  our  economic  frameworks  will 
contribute  to  a  greater  mobilization  of  resources  and 
higher levels of economic growth.
The costs of shifting towards a sustainable future 
are  real.  Helping  to  create  an  environment  conducive 
to  generating  and  directing  capital  flows  —  such  as 
official development assistance, domestically available 
public finance and other sources — to projects where 
they can deliver the largest transformational impact is 
a critically important task for the public sector. No less 
important is ensuring that the public funds available to 
support national transitions to sustainable development 
are used to leverage and catalyse larger pools of private 
finance. We must also be innovative in exploring new 
financial mechanisms that can move the process along 
and enable the achievement of sustainable development.
of 
instability; 
financial-market 
There are a number of possible additional financing 
mechanisms  that  merit  serious  consideration.  They 
include  imposing  a  tax  on  financial  transactions 
that  financial-market  instability  and  other  negative 
externalities may be associated with; taxing financial 
transactions,  in  every  jurisdiction,  that  are  a  direct 
cause 
ceasing 
unsustainable  subsidies;  improving  and  strengthening 
resource  allocation  and  distribution,  based  on  sound 
investment  policy  decisions;  and  encouraging  donor 
partners,  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  to  utilize  country-specific  budget-
support financial mechanisms to ensure the improved 
coordination,  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  official 
development assistance and other capital resources. At 
the same time, we should be mindful of the unintended 
negative effects of some such mechanisms. The impact 
of the air-passenger duty on the tourism sectors of some 
SIDS is one example.
In  order 
to  accelerate 
the  mobilization  and 
utilization  of  funds  for  defined  purposes,  partners’ 
fulfilment of their current and past commitments is a 
must — and a first — for all such agreed-on obligations, 
including  those  undertaken  under  other  international 
conventions,  before  leaping  towards  the  financing 
of  sustainable  development  goals  and  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  For  example,  the  global  official 
development assistance target, of 0.7 per cent of gross 
national income, is only at 0.29 per cent to date, and the 
target level should be met. The operationalization and 
capitalization of the Green Climate Fund by early 2014 
must be prioritized and scaled up to reach $100 billion 
per year by 2020.
We underscore the importance of the follow-up to 
the outcome of the Rio+20 Conference and of ensuring 
the  full  implementation  of  the  Barbados  Programme 
of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  For  SIDS  to 
ensure  a  finance  strategy  that  can  effectively  finance 
our  sustainable  development,  those  elements  must  be 
considered.  First,  human  development  remains  a  key 
priority, as people are our most valuable asset. We must 
realize the full potential of our human resources, and 
productive  employment  and  decent  work  for  all  are 
essential.
SIDS  call  for  international  support  for  national 
and  regional  initiatives  that  serve  to  enhance  the 
voice  and  participation  of  SIDS  at  every  level  of  the 
decision-making  and  norm-setting  processes  of  the 
international  finance  systems,  thus  increasing  their 
14/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
capacity  and  development.  We  furthermore  call  for 
the  simplification  and  development  of  international 
access  to  allow  SIDS  direct  access  to  financing  for 
sustainable development. We call for the establishment 
of  a  dedicated  mechanism  to  provide  financing  to 
developing countries, in particular SIDS, and attention 
to  the  special  challenges  in  financing  sustainable 
development in SIDS, including access to concessionary 
financing  to  be  considered  by  the  Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Financing  for  Sustainable 
Development and other related bodies.
Access to sustainable energy is an area that can help 
raise efficiency and productivity and reduce emissions, 
while  at  the  same  time  creating  incentives  for  clean 
technologies.
Our Dialogue today is an indispensable process that 
complements, and hopefully integrates, a very specific 
outreach strategy related to the work modalities of the 
Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts.  The  results 
of our deliberations must be taken into account in the 
post-2015 development agenda process.
For  SIDS,  it  is  crystal-clear  that  we  live  in  an 
interdependent  world,  in  which  all  people  are  bound 
to  one  another  by  a  shared  humanity  that  cherishes 
life,  works  for  equality  and  strives  for  sustainable 
development.
An important test of our resolve will be measured 
by  how  successfully  we  strengthen  cooperation  for 
collective  action.  We  look  forward  to  reinvigorating 
the international community’s commitment to a global 
partnership that will enable SIDS to eradicate extreme 
poverty,  build  resilience  and  improve  the  quality  of 
life  for  our  peoples.  We  will  need  active  engagement 
and  cooperation  from  the  United  Nations  system, 
our  partners  and  other  key  stakeholders.  That  global 
partnership should be transparent, inclusive and build 
upon  existing  mutual  respect  and  accountability  to 
ensure that the financing for sustainable development 
is effective.
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I  want  to 
thank you, Sir, for convening this High-level Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development.  I  assure  you  of  my 
delegation’s  cooperation.  We  are  keenly  interested  in 
the success of this meeting and will spare no effort to 
that end.
It is my honour to speak on behalf of the group of 
49 States on the United Nations list of least developed 
The 
issue  of 
the  means 
fundamental 
the 
countries  (LDCs).  The  group  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
for 
achieving 
internationally  agreed  development 
goals  —  particularly  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals — is at the heart of the Monterrey Consensus and 
the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development. In 
both those documents, developed countries undertook 
firm commitments to provide at least 0.7 per cent of their 
gross  national  product  (GNP)  to  developing  countries 
in official development assistance, and at least 0.15 to 
0.20 per cent of GNP to the least developed countries. 
They  also  pledged  to  ensure  duty-free  and  quota-free 
access for products from developing countries; to seek 
a durable solution to the debt problems of developing 
countries;  to  provide  technological  and  technical 
support  as  necessary;  and  to  reform  the  international 
financial  architecture.  However,  little  progress  has 
been made in those areas to date.
For  their  part,  the  least  developed  countries  have 
made  significant  efforts  to  develop  stable,  equitable 
institutional  and  regulatory  frameworks  aimed  at 
the  public  and  private  sectors  and  civil  society,  as 
requested under the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha 
Declaration. Considerable progress has been achieved 
on  many  fronts,  including  promoting  democracy  and 
human rights and establishing the rule of law. However, 
there has been no resulting decrease in the major gap 
between savings and investment, which is necessary to 
promote sustainable growth.
Revenues that scarcely ensure livelihoods, a weak 
tax base, high rates of tax evasion and a predominant 
informal  sector  constitute  the  factors  causing  the 
low  ratio  of  tax  collection  to  GNP  among  LDCs. 
Substantial  national  and 
international  efforts  are 
necessary to promote the creation and establishment of 
an environment conducive to economic growth.
to 
In  spite  of 
improvements 
the  business 
environment,  LDCs  have  been  marginalized  in  terms 
of  the  global  production  network.  Foreign  direct 
investment in LDCs rose 20 per cent in 2012; however, 
that  group  —  which  comprises  12  per  cent  of  the 
world’s population — received less than 2 per cent of 
total global investment. The lion’s share of investment 
in  the  LDCs  is  in  natural-resource  extraction  and  the 
related  manufacturing  industries.  The  international 
community must take appropriate measures to promote 
investment in LDCs and ensure equitable distribution 
13-50226
15/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
in  order  to  effectively  support  economic  growth,  job 
creation, technology acquisition and free trade in those 
countries.
The  least  developed  countries  have  also  worked 
hard  to  attract  foreign  direct  investment.  To  support 
those efforts, developed countries should now establish 
an  investment  promotion  system  for  LDCs,  including 
measures regarding insurance, guarantees, preferential 
financing  programmes  and 
to  support 
private-sector initiatives aimed at investment in LDCs, 
as agreed under the Istanbul Programme of Action.
funding 
In  that  context,  we  look  forward  to  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  to  be  introduced  at  the  sixty-
ninth session of the General Assembly. In that respect, 
we  hope  to  benefit  from  the  firm  support  of  the 
international  community  to  establish  a  framework  to 
support investment in LDCs.
The stalemate in the trade negotiations of the Doha 
Round  represent  a  major  setback  in  the  international 
trading  system.  We  must  mobilize  the  necessary 
political will to complete that round of negotiations and 
ensure  the  full  realization  of  its  development  agenda. 
We  call  on  the  States  members  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization to make every effort to conclude the trade 
negotiations and ensure an outcome that is ambitious, 
comprehensive, balanced, fair and aimed at promoting 
development.
We  urge  all  stakeholders  to  seek  consensus  on  a 
package  of  measures  to  support  LDCs  at  the  next 
ministerial  meeting  in  Bali,  to  be  held  from  3  to 
6 December, including free market access and simple 
and flexible preferential rules, as well as ensuring the 
implementation of exemptions with regard to services 
and cotton.
We  also  call  on  developed  countries  to  meet 
the  needs  of  LDCs  in  the  areas  of  trade  capacity 
development  through  aid-for-trade,  as  agreed  in  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action.
We recognize that official development assistance 
remains the main source of funding for the development 
for LDCs, and serves as a shield against the volatility 
and instability of the global economic environment. We 
hereby express our concern about the decline in official 
development  assistance  provided  to  LDCs,  which 
dropped from 11 per cent in 2010 to 10 per cent in 2011. 
We are highly concerned about preliminary estimates 
indicating a decrease of 12.8 per cent in ODA in 2012, 
as compared to 2011.
We  commend 
the  member  countries  of 
the 
Development Assistance Committee of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development for already 
having  achieved  the  recommended  level  of  official 
development assistance.
We urge those countries that have not yet done so 
to  fulfil  their  commitments,  especially  in  regard  to 
providing  0.15  per  cent  to  0.20  per  cent  of  the  gross 
national  product  to  least  developed  countries  as  soon 
as possible and to increase their aid to LDCs when they 
redefine their commitments to finance the development 
assistance  programme  in  2015,  taking  into  account 
that  LDCs  are  the  ones  most  affected  by  the  current 
financial and economic crisis.
Sources  of  innovative  financing  can  also  play  a 
major role in finding ways to fill the financing gaps of 
LDCs. We note that a number of initiatives have already 
been made operational or are at an advanced stage of 
implementation. The World Economic and Social Survey 
2012: In Search of New Development Finance indicates 
that $400 billion to $450 billion can be mobilized every 
year through taxes on financial transactions and carbon 
emissions and the use of special drawing rights at the 
International Monetary Fund. Those initiatives should 
be made operational.
External  debt  represents  a  serious  challenge  for 
LDCs.  We  welcome  the  measures  taken  under  the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative.  However,  those 
measures  are  not  sufficient  and  must  be  extended 
to  all  LDCs.  All  countries  that  meet  the  criteria  to 
be  categorized  as  LDCs  should  be  made  eligible  for 
debt  relief  programmes.  All  the  debts  of  the  LDCs, 
whether  multilateral  or  bilateral,  should  be  cancelled 
forthwith.  Development  assistance  given  to  LDCs 
should  preferably  be  in  the  form  of  non-reimbursable 
donations to avoid a recurrence of the debt crisis. We 
would like to request that mechanisms be established to 
freeze and deleverage the debt of LDCs.
South-South  cooperation  has  emerged  as  a  vital 
force  on  the  economic  landscape  and  is  broadening 
in  scope  significantly.  The  potential  of  South-South 
cooperation  in  investment,  trade  and  development 
assistance  must  be  mobilized  as  a  true  complement 
to  North-South  cooperation  without  being  considered 
a  substitute  for  it.  In  that  context,  attracting  the 
investment of the sovereign wealth funds of developing 
countries  in  sectors  such  as  agriculture  and  agro-
industry  could  be  a  viable  solution.in  helping  LDCs 
develop their productive capacity.
16/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
Ms. Miculescu (Romania), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
My country would like to hold a ministerial-level 
conference  in  April  2014  on  new  partnerships  for 
development of LDCs and to address financing in that 
capacity.
The economic and financial crisis and its aftermath 
have  revealed  distortions  in  the  global  financial 
architecture. Some measures have been undertaken to 
strengthen the system. The governance scheme for the 
Bretton Woods institutions must be changed. To correct 
their democratic deficit, a fundamental reform of their 
voting  system  and  accountability  structure  should  be 
undertaken. Special weight must be given to LDCs when 
new quotas are defined so that they can have a greater 
voice in the Bretton Woods institutions. LDCs include 
the vast majority of the poorest countries on Earth, and 
their voices must be heard and their concerns taken into 
account in all decision-making processes dealing with 
financial matters at the international level.
The establishment of a new international financial 
architecture should involve the Governments of LDCs. 
The LDCs constitute the group of the most vulnerable 
countries. Many among them will not be able to achieve 
the MDGs without the necessary financial resources in 
place.  Financing  for  development  is  therefore  crucial 
for  them.  A  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments made in the Monterrey Consensus and in 
the Doha Declaration are thus of paramount importance 
to them. We must spare no effort in establishing a global 
accountability  system  with  universal  participation  to 
ensure  that  the  commitments  of  all  stakeholders  are 
fulfilled.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Mayr-Hartig  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to deliver a statement on behalf of the European 
Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  candidate 
countries the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Montenegro, Iceland, Turkey and Serbia; the countries 
of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and 
potential candidates Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina 
as well as Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova, Armenia 
and Georgia, align themselves with this statement.
on financing for development, released in July, revealed 
that good progress had been made towards meeting most 
of  the  European  Union’s  ambitious  commitments.  For 
example, over the past 10 years, the European Union and 
its member States committed almost €45 billion per year 
to development aid — more than half of the assistance 
reported  by  the  Development  Assistance  Committee 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development. The European Union remains the largest 
trading partner of developing countries and the market 
most open to them, and the European Union accounted 
for 71 per cent of global debt relief over the period from 
2000 to 2011.
We believe that the Monterrey Consensus and Doha 
Declaration provide a strong conceptual underpinning 
upon which to base our future discussions on financing 
for  development.  The  key  intellectual  breakthroughs 
they  embody,  a  comprehensive  approach  with  shared 
responsibilities, remain relevant today.
However,  the  world  has  changed  considerably 
over  the  past  10  years  —  the  distribution  of  global 
wealth,  countries’  ability  to  influence  global  trends, 
the role of emerging donors — so that the conceptual 
framework needs to be adapted to new circumstances. 
We  have  also  seen  the  proliferation  of  international 
financing  processes  and  experiences  bringing  new 
ways of funding, such as those associated with climate 
or biodiversity finance and other innovative modalities.
At the September Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  special  event,  the  international  community 
reiterated  its  commitment  to  undertake  all  efforts 
towards achieving the MDGs. The focus should be on 
the  most  off-track  MDGs  with  particular  attention  to 
certain  groups  of  countries,  such  as  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs),  landlocked  economies  and  small 
island  developing  States.  The  European  Union  and 
its  member  States  remain  committed  to  delivering  on 
our  commitments,  and  we  are  focused  on  helping  to 
achieve the MDGs. The September MDG special event 
also reaffirmed the importance of mobilizing and using 
effectively  all  resources,  public  and  private,  domestic 
and  international,  and  called  for  a  coherent  approach 
towards a single post-2015 framework and set of goals, 
culminating  in  a  summit  in  September  2015  for  the 
adoption of the post-2015 development agenda.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  have 
been  monitoring  all 
their  Monterrey  Consensus 
commitments and more on an annual basis since 2003. 
The most recent European Union accountability report 
Looking  beyond  2015,  it  will  be  important  to 
preserve  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  to  adapt  it  to 
new  challenges  and  circumstances.  The  framework 
should be policy-focused because good policy matters 
13-50226
17/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
more than money; and comprehensive — it should cover 
all financing sources, whether domestic, international, 
private or public and innovative financing mechanisms 
and  should  tackle  illicit  flows,  such  as  tax  evasion. 
It  should  be  integrated  —  to  make  the  most  out  of 
synergies  between  different  policy  goals;  be  flexible 
and focused on effective implementation at the country 
level; and be based on mutual accountability in order 
to  reflect  shared  responsibilities.  It  is  important  to 
recall that the Monterrey Consensus initiated the global 
international effectiveness discussions, which are now 
led by the Global Partnership for Effective Development 
Cooperation  created  in  Busan  in  2011.  The  Busan 
effectiveness  principles  provide  an  important  element 
to  complement  the  post-2015  discussions  on  goals, 
targets and financing.
Let  me  conclude  by  underlining  the  importance 
the  EU  and  its  member  States  attach  to  ensuring 
that  the  various  strands  of  work  in  different  forums, 
such  as  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts 
on  Sustainable  Development  Financing,  the  Open 
Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals and 
the United Nations financing for development track all 
come  together  and  contribute  to  the  single  post-2015 
framework  and  set  of  goals.  The  challenges  are  huge 
and  the  means  limited.  We  cannot  afford  to  miss  the 
synergies offered by such an integrated approach.
in 
Mr.  Jaitly  (India):  It  is  my  distinct  honour 
to  participate 
this  sixth  High-level  Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development.  We  welcome  the 
opportunity  offered  by  this  High-level  Dialogue  to 
review the status of implementation of the Monterrey 
Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing 
for  Development.  Coming  as  it  does  at  a  time  when 
the  international  community  is  giving  the  final  push 
to  efforts  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
(MDGs)  and  simultaneously  commencing 
deliberations for the post-2015 development agenda, the 
Dialogue is indeed very timely.
At  the  outset,  let  me  associate  myself  with  the 
statement made by the Ambassador of Fiji on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China.
Poverty  eradication  and  sustained  and  inclusive 
economic  growth  are  the  central  and  overarching 
priorities of developing countries. Poverty eradication 
is  an 
for  sustainable 
development, and inclusive economic growth is a sine 
qua non for eradicating poverty and providing a better 
quality of life to our people. It is imperative that those 
indispensable 
requirement 
priorities  of  the  developing  countries  be  supported 
by  the  international  community  through  enhanced 
financial  and  technological  assistance  and  through  a 
supportive and fair international economic system.
While  we  have  made  significant  advances  in 
reducing  poverty  and  achieving  human  development 
over the past decade, the progress in the achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals has been uneven, 
and  many  of  the  Goals  will  not  be  achieved  by  2015. 
A  key  reason  for  our  collective  failure  to  achieve  the 
MDGs has been the shortfall in development financing. 
The global partnership to provide the support to achieve 
the MDGs has failed to deliver.
The report of the Secretary-General (A/68/357) on 
the follow-up to and implementation of the Monterrey 
Consensus  and  Doha  Declaration  presents  a  sobering 
picture. The multiple global crises of the past several 
years have had a deleterious impact on the ability of the 
developing  countries  to  mobilize  financial  resources 
for  their  development  aspirations.  Their  capacities 
have  been  further  eroded  by  the  widening  gap  in  aid 
delivery  and  the  reversal  of  capital  flows.  The  gap 
between  commitments  and  disbursement  of  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  reached  $167  billion 
in 2011 and further widened in 2012. Aid to the least 
developed  countries,  who  most  need  assistance,  has 
also dipped in real terms.
It  is  a  matter  of  serious  concern  that,  just  as  the 
world  commits  to  accelerating  progress  towards  the 
MDGs by 2015 and elaborating an ambitious post-2015 
development  agenda,  the  prospects  for  ODA  point  to 
a  stagnation  in  the  medium  term.  At  the  same  time, 
there  appears  to  be  no  light  at  the  end  of  the  tunnel 
as  far  as  the  Doha  Development  Round  of  the  World 
Trade  Organization  is  concerned.  Stunted  market 
access for developing countries is exacerbated by rising 
protectionist tendencies in the developed countries and 
falling levels of foreign direct investment.
It  is  evident  that  if  we  are  to  succeed  in  crafting 
a  transformative  development  agenda  for  the  post-
2015  period,  we  must  craft  a  strengthened  global 
partnership  to  provide  adequate  and  enhanced  means 
of implementation to developing countries as part of it. 
The urgent fulfilment by developed countries of their 
commitment  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income 
as  ODA  should  be  the  starting  point  for  a  renewed 
and  strengthened  global  partnership  for  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  The  reform  of  the  institutions 
of global economic governance to give real voice and 
18/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
participation to developing countries must also figure 
as part of the new global partnership.
of implementation, particularly financial resources and 
technology.
cooperation 
has 
South-South 
increasingly 
complemented  global  development  cooperation 
in 
recent  years,  even  as  large  developing  countries 
themselves  face  increased  development  challenges  of 
their  own.  However,  unlike  North-South  aid,  South-
South cooperation is a voluntary partnership guided by 
its own principles. It must therefore remain free from 
externally  imposed  norms  drawn  from  North-South 
assistance. It can be neither a substitute for North-South 
aid nor a pretext for diluting existing aid commitments.
The  need  for  a  supportive  international  economic 
environment, enhanced investment flows, a supportive 
multilateral trade regime and a strengthened framework 
for  the  transfer  of  technology  in  order  to  foster  and 
sustain inclusive growth and job creation in developing 
countries has never been greater.
The  financing  for  development  process  is  a  key 
pillar of the global development agenda. Its fundamental 
creed  of  ensuring  enhanced  and  predictable  financial 
resource  flows  to  assist  developing  countries  in 
pursuing their development priorities is in fact all the 
more  relevant  today  and  will  remain  so  in  the  post-
2015 period. It is imperative that we ensure the full and 
urgent  implementation  of  the  commitments  enshrined 
in the financing for development process.
Mr.  Maalim  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  We 
welcome  the  convening  of  this  important  High-level 
Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development  and  thank 
both  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Secretary-General  for  their  introductory  remarks  on 
this subject.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Fiji,  Benin  and 
Ethiopia  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  the  least  developed  countries  and  the  African 
Group, respectively.
This High-level Dialogue is taking place at a time 
when  the  United  Nations  and  the  entire  world  are 
focusing  their  attention  on  two  important  processes: 
accelerating  progress  for  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  within  the  remaining 
period of less than 800 days before the 2015 deadline; 
and discussions on the post-2015 development agenda. 
We  would  like  to  underscore  that  the  most  important 
common denominator in the achievement of the current 
MDGs and any future development agenda is the means 
We  note  and  commend  the  efforts  made  at  both 
the  national  and  international  levels  in  mobilizing 
resources for financing for development. Goal 8 of the 
MDGs was basically to facilitate the creation of global 
partnerships in mobilizing resources for development. 
It  was  clear  that,  through  the  reform  of  global  trade 
and  financial  architectures,  further  mobilization  of 
financial resources could be secured.
For  over  43  years  now,  we  have  had  the  official 
development assistance (ODA) target of 0.7 per cent of 
gross national product (GNP) for developed countries. 
To date, only five countries have achieved or surpassed 
that  target.  The  Monterrey  Consensus,  which  came 
into  being  soon  after  the  adoption  of  the  MDGs, 
reaffirmed that target and apportioned responsibilities 
to  both  national  Governments  and  the  international 
community  on  resource  mobilization.  Among  other 
things,  developed  countries  were  urged  to  make 
concrete efforts towards meeting the target of 0.7 per 
cent of the GNP as ODA to developing countries and 
0.15 to 0.20 per cent of their GNP to the least developed 
countries. That undertaking was reaffirmed in various 
international conferences, including the fourth United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, 
held in Istanbul in May 2011, and recently at the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20).
Both  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha 
Declaration on Financing for Development underscore 
the  importance  of  mobilizing  domestic  resources  in 
achieving  economic  growth,  poverty  eradication  and 
sustainable  development.  They  also  stressed  in  that 
regard the value of national ownership and leadership 
in  developing  policies  and  strategies  that  include 
financing, good governance and accountability.
Many  developing  countries  have  undertaken  bold 
initiatives  to  mobilize  resources  domestically.  Most 
have  established  ambitious  national  development 
strategies  for  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the 
achievement  of  sustainable  development.  They  have 
established  policies  and  regulatory  frameworks  that 
have created environments conducive to attracting both 
domestic and foreign investments. Moreover, deliberate 
actions have been taken to strengthen good governance, 
rule of law, human rights and democratic institutions. 
As a result of those efforts, the economies of developing 
countries are growing steadily, as attested to by the fact 
13-50226
19/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
that six out of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the 
world are in Africa.
especially 
development, 
relevance  of  mobilizing 
for 
Despite  those  efforts,  domestic  resources  have 
proved  to  be  insufficient  in  themselves,  hence  the 
international 
continued 
resources 
private 
international  capital  flows  in  terms  of  foreign  direct 
investment.  The  Rio+20  outcome  document,  entitled 
“The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), could 
not be more lucid on that point. The United Republic 
of  Tanzania  is  making  satisfactory  progress  in  that 
regard, with a steady broadening of its tax base; from 
July  2011  to  March  2012  tax  revenue  collection 
amounted  to  4.7  billion  Tanzanian  shillings,  which 
is  the  equivalent  of  around  $3  billion.  Likewise,  the 
Government  continues  with  the  implementation  of  its 
National  Economic  Empowerment  Policy  of  2004  by 
extending  soft  loans  through  20  empowerment  funds, 
with particular emphasis on farmers, women and young 
entrepreneurs.
Moreover,  the  implementation  of  the  National 
Microfinance  Policy  of  2001  is  also  under  way,  with 
millions  of  Tanzanians  gaining  access  to  financial 
services through banks, savings and credit cooperative 
organizations  and  community-based  organizations. 
Microfinance services through mobile phone operators 
have  given  millions  of  Tanzanians  further  access  to 
such services.
We  have  created  a  favourable  investment  climate 
through,  inter  alia,  the  enactment  of  the  Public-
Private  Partnership  Act  of  2010  and  the  designation 
of  the  Tanzania  Investment  Centre  and  the  Zanzibar 
Investment  Promotion  Authority  as  one-stop  centres 
for  prospective  investors.  We  are  putting  in  place 
mechanisms for speeding up the process of setting up a 
business so as to attract more businesses and investment 
to Tanzania.
Despite  the  challenges  in  attracting  investment, 
which  in  Africa  is  largely  focused  on  the  extractive 
industries,  we  are  witnessing  increasing  investment 
in other sectors such as agriculture, energy, transport, 
telecommunications,  health  and  education.  Indeed, 
my  Government  has  identified  some  of  those  sectors 
as  the  key  drivers  of  the  development  that,  under  the 
Big Results Now initiative, will accelerate progress in 
achieving  the  Five-Year  Development  Plan  2011/12-
2015/16  and 
transforming 
Tanzania  into  a  middle-income  country.  We  believe 
that,  through  sustainable  partnerships,  investments 
the  Vision  2025, 
thus 
in  such  areas  as  agriculture  can  lift  thousands  out  of 
poverty while ensuring food security and nutrition for 
Tanzania  and  its  neighbours.  Initiatives  such  as  the 
Southern  Agricultural  Growth  Corridor  of  Tanzania 
are a step in the right direction for my country.
trade, 
international 
I  have  highlighted  just  a  few  of  the  issues  raised 
in the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration 
on Financing for Development. However, the remaining 
issues,  namely, 
international 
financial  and  technical  cooperation  for  development, 
external  debt  and  systemic  issues,  also  deserve  our 
undivided attention. We trust that ample time will be 
provided  for  addressing  those  issues,  including  those 
relevant  to  the  World  Trade  Organization  Ministerial 
Conference to be held in Bali in December, which we 
hope  will  provide  a  way  out  of  the  current  impasse 
in  the  Doha  round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations. 
Tanzania will unhesitatingly continue to speak out on 
that important subject.
Mr.  Sergeev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian): The Russian delegation welcomes the holding 
of  the  sixth  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for 
Development. Along with the special spring meetings 
of the Economic and Social Council, the International 
Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development,  dialogue  plays  a  key  role 
in  coordinating  the  follow-up  to  the  international 
conferences that took place in Monterrey and Doha. We 
feel  that  the  current  high-level  meeting  will  promote 
greater  coherence  between  various  financing  for 
development  processes  and  will  also  provide  useful 
input to the work of agreeing upon priorities for global 
socioeconomic cooperation in the post-2015 period.
cooperation 
to  mobilize 
We  believe  that  a  conceptual  framework  for 
resources 
multilateral 
is  essential  if  we  are  to  ensure  the  sustainable 
development  of  all  countries,  as  determined  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing for Development. The tools provided for in 
those seminal documents allow for effective responsess 
to  new  development  challenges,  including  systemic 
disparities in the global economy, increased threats to 
global energy and food security and the negative effects 
of climate change.
In  our  opinion,  the  most  immediate  tasks  in 
the  post-Monterrey  agenda  are  ensuring  that  donor 
community  commitments 
to  providing  assistance 
to  countries  in  need  are  kept;  combating  trade  and 
20/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
investment  protectionism;  creating  new,  fairer  and 
more transparent international financial and economic 
systems, including by expanding the representation of 
developing countries and activating their participation 
in  the  work  of  the  leading  international  financial  and 
trade  institutions;  supporting  the  poorest  countries  in 
developing  and  implementing  good  macroeconomic 
and  fiscal  policies  with  a  view  to  making  the  most 
effective  use  of  domestic  and  foreign  resources  and 
ensuring debt sustainability; overcoming fragmentation 
and duplication of financial development mechanisms, 
especially at the country level; expanding partnership 
cooperation  and  the  search  for  optimal  models  of 
interaction with new players in development financing, 
including  ensuring  the  active  involvement  of  new 
donors in the decision-making processes and developing 
innovative  approaches 
to 
developing countries.
to  providing  assistance 
A significant contribution to achieving the targets 
of  the  Conferences  on  Financing  for  Development 
is  made  by  the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  which  is  playing 
an  important  role  in  the  global  economic  regulatory 
system. At the G-20 Summit in St. Petersburg a month 
ago, the High-level Principles of Long-term Investment 
Financing  by  Institutional  Investors  were  adopted. 
They  are  a  key  factor  in  ensuring  strong,  sustained 
and  balanced  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development. It was decided to extend the duration of 
the moratorium on protectionist measures. A strategic 
framework  programme  to  combat  corruption  was 
adopted, as was a collective action plan to combat tax-
base erosion and profit-shifting.
An  important  consensus  was  reached  on  the 
development  of  a  new  standard  for  the  multilateral 
automatic exchange of information for tax purposes. A 
comprehensive package of reforms aimed at improving 
the resilience of the financial system was approved and 
has already been implemented.
The  St.  Petersburg  Development  Outlook  was 
approved.  It  identifies  five  priority  areas  for  further 
elaboration  by  the  G-20  to  assist  countries  most  in 
need.  The  priorities  for  developing  countries  are  to 
ensure  food  security,  increase  access  to  financial 
services and improve financial literacy, create modern 
infrastructure, 
infrastructure, 
promote human resource development and increase the 
mobilization of domestic resources.
including 
energy 
Russia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  international 
development  cooperation  and  is  ready  to  enhance  its 
constructive interaction with a wide range of partners 
in the interest of the full and timely implementation of 
the global socioeconomic agenda.
increasing 
is  consistently 
Guided  by  the  principles  of  solidarity  and  global 
partnership,  Russia 
its 
contribution  to  international  development  assistance. 
In 2012, the volume of Russian assistance to developing 
countries,  excluding  debt  write-offs,  totalled  about 
$460  million,  which  is  in  line  with  the  benchmarks 
laid  down  in  the  concept  of  Russia’s  participation 
in  international  development  assistance.  Given  the 
presence  of  positive  socioeconomic  factors,  we  will 
strive to achieve the target recommended by the United 
Nations to allocate not less than 0.7 per cent of gross 
national income to official development assistance.
Mr. Laram (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
let me convey to Ambassador John Ashe, President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  my 
appreciation  for  convening  this  High-level  Dialogue 
on  Financing  for  Development.  I  also  want  to  thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his statement.
This meeting is of particular importance as a follow-
up  to  the  outcome  of  the  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in  Monterrey, 
Mexico,  in  2002,  and  the  Follow-up  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus, held 
in  Doha  in  2008.  The  Monterrey  Conference  was  an 
important turning point in international cooperation for 
development. Developing and developed countries met 
under the auspices of the United Nations to agree on a 
bold and ambitious strategy for development. Developing 
countries  also  assumed  their  own  responsibilities 
with  regard  to  development  and  domestic  resource 
mobilization,  and  made  commitments  to  develop 
financial and socioeconomic strategies to attain those 
goals.
in 
the 
in  decision-making 
For  their  part,  donors  agreed  to  provide  greater 
assistance,  improve  the  terms  of  trade  and  alleviate 
debt.  Developing  countries  were  given  a  greater 
share 
international 
development  system.  Many  developed  countries  also 
made  commitments  to  increase  official  development 
assistance 
(ODA)  substantially.  Other  developed 
countries  undertook  commitments,  in  line  with  the 
Monterrey  Consensus,  to  provide  greater  assistance 
to  financing  development  through  the  signing  of 
agreements  to  alleviate  debt,  fight  corruption  and 
establish  various  policies.  The  Doha  Conference 
13-50226
21/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
concluded with a declaration that reaffirmed the strong 
commitment of developed countries to increase ODA in 
spite of the financial crisis.
We  are  all  aware  that  this  Dialogue  is  being  held 
today in a context marked by the instability of financial 
markets  and  by  the  difficulties  that  developing  and 
developed  economies  are  facing  following  the  global 
economic crisis. That situation threatens to undermine 
what has been achieved by the international community 
to  ensure  human  security  and  to  combat  poverty. 
Greater efforts are needed to tackle new challenges and 
to combat poverty and hunger by 2015. That also means 
that  we  must  step  up  our  efforts  to  tackle  those  new 
challenges, whether they are due to the crisis or to other 
new and emerging issues, such as the energy crisis, the 
food crisis or climate change.
We  believe  that  we  can  certainly  overcome  the 
crisis.  Nevertheless,  its  effects  are  being  felt  by 
developing  countries  in  particular,  because  of  the 
decrease  in  financing,  ODA  and  investment  flows. 
We  should  not  be  fearful  on  that  account.  Growth  is 
fragile, and the economic infrastructure of developing 
countries is extremely fragile owing to a drop in their 
exports, the credit freeze and the probability of a new 
cycle of debt. Given those countries’ lack of a financial 
surplus with which to promote economic growth, they 
will  continue  to  experience  economic,  financial  and 
social problems.
As  we  all  know,  the  situation  in  developing 
countries  requires  trade-expansion  measures  and  new 
investments. We must improve loan conditions, create 
new financing mechanisms and liberalize the terms of 
trade in a fair manner, as agreed at the fourth ministerial 
conference  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  which 
created  the  Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations,  which 
Qatar hosted in 2001.
In that context, I wish to emphasize that the impasse 
in  the  Doha  negotiations  constitutes  a  substantive 
threat to multilateral trade. It is therefore vital that the 
Doha  Round  of  negotiations  be  completed  as  soon  as 
possible and be accorded a true development context in 
real terms.
financial 
The  global 
system  needs 
to  be 
restructured in favour of developing countries to help 
create conditions to foster investment. The reforms of 
those systems must give due weight to the developing 
countries,  given  their  role  and  responsibility  in  the 
global  trade  and  financial  system.  Without  a  doubt, 
Millennium  Development  Goal  8,  on 
the  global 
partnership for development, is of extreme importance 
in  creating  new  efforts  to  fulfil  all  the  Goals.  In  that 
context,  the  measures  envisaged  in  the  Johannesburg 
Plan  of  Implementation  constitute  a  main  reference 
point  for  making  that  a  tangible  plan,  while  the 
Millennium Declaration is part and parcel of the plan 
for  making  investment  a  driving  force  for  growth.  In 
that context, developing countries have actively begun 
to take on a great range of responsibilities themselves. 
However,  the  obstacle  remains  the  lack  of  financial 
resources to attain the Millennium Development Goals 
and meet other development targets.
For  its  part,  Qatar  has,  through  its  participation 
in 
cooperation 
socioeconomic 
development,  humanitarian  affairs  and  poverty 
eradication, proved itself to be a reliable partner.
programmes 
in 
In conclusion, the current financing for development 
commitments would, if met, be sufficient for the MDGs 
to  be  achieved  in  all  developing  countries,  including 
in  Africa.  However,  for  that  to  be  the  case,  it  is  up 
to  the  partners  to  respect  the  spirit  of  Monterrey,  as 
underscored at Doha.
Mr.  De  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  Let  me,  at  the 
outset, commend the President of the General Assembly 
and  thank  the  Secretariat  for  providing  us  with  the 
opportunity to highlight the role of the United Nations 
on this important issue.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Fiji on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  and  would  like  to  make  the 
following remarks in its national capacity.
social 
One  of  the  key  positive  outcomes  of  the  Rio  de 
Janeiro  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development was the commitment made by all Member 
States  and  the  United  Nations  system  to  mainstream 
inclusiveness  and  environmental 
growth, 
the  sustainable  development 
sustainability  across 
agenda.  Financing 
for  development  must  now 
accommodate and support a new paradigm for inclusive 
and sustainable growth. We welcome the establishment 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable  Development  Financing  and  support  a 
strategy to facilitate the mobilization of resources and 
their effective use in achieving sustainable development 
objectives.
We  must 
and 
implementation framework of the Monterrey Consensus 
follow-up 
strengthen 
the 
22/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
and  the  Doha  Declaration  through  a  more  integrated 
approach to development in order to provide enhanced 
coordination and coherence among the many financing 
structures  and  facilities.  We  are  seriously  concerned 
about  the  present  fragmentation  and  verticalization 
of  financing  mechanisms.  A  proper  response  must 
be  built  on  the  basis  of  open  consultations  among  all 
Member States and other important stakeholders in an 
intergovernmental negotiation process.
The 
transition 
towards  a  more 
integrated 
sustainable  development  will  undoubtedly  require 
additional,  predictable  and  stable  flows  of  resources. 
Since  Monterrey,  developing  countries  have  made 
significant  strides  to  mobilize  additional  domestic 
resources for development on their own. Many of those 
countries, Brazil among them, have actively sought to 
prioritize  distributive  public  policies  and  conditioned 
cash-transfer  programmes 
in  pursuit  of  poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development.  We  are  of 
the view that resources allocated to social programmes 
should be considered investment, and not be accounted 
for as expenditures or public debt. From an integrated 
perspective, social justice and sustainable development 
will  be 
the  responsibility  of  everyone  —  from 
Governments  to  companies,  from  the  international 
community to individuals. That requires a new global 
partnership.
First,  we  need  global  economic  and  financial 
governance  that  respects  policy  space  and  domestic 
public-policy  choices,  taking  into  account  the  central 
role of Governments.
recognize 
Secondly,  we  must 
that  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  will  continue  to  play 
an  important  role  in  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger. 
Unfortunately, levels of ODA have been falling for the 
second year in a row. In fact, they may have fallen further 
than  announced,  given  the  accounting  and  reporting 
mechanism  used  by  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  to  measure  the  degree 
of concessionality, which tends to overestimate official 
development assistance flows. We call on all developed 
partners to meet their commitments to dedicate 0.7 per 
cent  of  gross  domestic  product  to  ODA,  including 
0.15  per  cent  and  0.20  per  cent  specifically  to  least 
developed countries. 
progress 
Accelerating 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  must  translate  into  an 
across-the-board  increase  in  ODA  and  not  distract 
the  international  community  from  its  obligations. 
on 
Every  single  MDG  is  a  priority  in  its  own  right  and 
must  be  financed  accordingly.  We  need  to  carry  that 
commitment  forward  into  the  post-2015  agenda  in 
order to forge a global consensus. Brazil is convinced 
that  foreign  direct  investment  and  private  financial 
resources will have a greater impact if more coherent 
policies  —  policies  that  are  respectful  of  national 
priorities and Government structures — are put in place. 
Social priorities and environmental sustainability must 
shape  international  trade  and  investment  regimes  and 
be supported by innovation and property rights systems 
with a strong development perspective.
Our experience in Brazil and in our region shows 
that  national  and  regional  development  banks  have 
a  key  role  to  play  in  financing  social  and  physical 
infrastructure projects, as well as regional integration. 
They  must  be  strengthened  and  their  local  ownership 
and governance made more effective and accountable.
Innovative  financing  mechanisms  such  as  the 
International  Drug  Purchase  Facility  and  the  Global 
Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  have  proved 
themselves  as  valuable 
innovative 
success  stories  should  be  thoroughly  considered  by 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts  on 
Sustainable Development Financing.
tools.  Those 
The  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger,  together 
with  social  inclusion,  must  remain  the  overarching 
objective of the sustainable development goals in a post-
2015 development agenda. Achieving that objective by 
2030  is  doable,  provided  that  international  support  is 
forthcoming.  It  is  of  paramount  importance  that  the 
new  expanding  global  middle  class  of  the  North  and 
the South, as well as those less fortunate who are still 
waiting to be uplifted from poverty and want, are given 
a chance to live in a more just and sustainable world. 
That requires more sustainable patterns of production 
and consumption: a shared goal that must stand out in a 
transformational post-2015 agenda.
In Rio de Janeiro, the United Nations proved itself 
capable of living up to the challenges of our time. It is 
now up to us to deliver the future we want.
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): At the outset, I wish to 
align Indonesia’s position on this issue with the statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Since our last Dialogue, in 2011, systemic problems 
in  the  global  economy  have  persisted,  with  no  sure 
sign  of  their  being  resolved.  Nevertheless,  reassuring 
13-50226
23/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
indications of recovery are slowly emerging. Growth in 
some developed countries gives hope for a stable global 
recovery in the years to come. However, the growth in 
emerging  economies  has  weakened.  Their  economic 
slowdowns and financial contraction alarm us all.
Despite  the  resilience  of  emerging  economies  in 
the  wake  of  the  2008  crisis,  the  foundations  of  their 
economic  development  are  not  strong  enough  to  bear 
the  burden  of  stabilizing  the  overall  global  economy. 
Essentially, this is because of certain obstacles in the 
global  economy  and  the  financial  market  that  affect 
emerging  economies,  among  other  things.  First,  the 
volatility  of  the  global  financial  and  the  economic 
crisis  increases  the  number  and  vulnerability  of  the 
poor,  which  weakens  domestic  growth.  Secondly,  a 
lack  of  transparency  in  global  economic  governance 
makes  it  challenging  to  coordinate  policies.  Because 
of  our  interconnected  and  interdependent  economies, 
intentions need to be communicated more clearly. For 
those reasons, international cooperation, collaboration 
and  coordination  between  developed  and  developing 
countries remain relevant.
in 
financing 
cooperation 
International 
for 
development is even more essential to support today’s 
nascent global recovery. For cooperation to be relevant 
and meaningful to our efforts, it should cover both aid 
and  beyond-aid  agendas.  This  cooperation  should  be 
built on the lessons learned from development practices 
and should honour existing commitments. It should also 
be  based  on  robust  engagement  rooted  in  good  faith, 
mutual respect and accountability.
With unresolved systemic problems and uncertainty 
in the global economy, a lot of hope has been pinned on 
collaboration.  It  is  imperative  to  go  back  and  honour 
the spirit and principles of the Monterrey Consensus, as 
underscored in the Doha Declaration. More importantly, 
there  needs  to  be  a  push  for  a  meaningful  reform  of 
the  global  financial  architecture,  making  provisions 
for  innovative  financing  and  achieving  fair  trade. 
Meeting all the targets and commitments under the six 
pillars of the Monterrey Consensus in a balanced and 
complementary  way  enables  developing  countries  to 
sustain  a  cycle  of  prosperity,  thereby  contributing  to 
durable global economic stability.
The successful completion of the MDGs and of any 
global development agenda beyond 2015 depends on the 
implementation of our global commitment to financing 
for development. In that connection, we strongly urge 
that through this Dialogue we emphasize the need for a 
financing for development follow-up conference before 
we decide on the new development agenda after 2015. 
Such a conference is important as a point of convergence 
for all processes related to financing for development, 
including sustainable development, which will support 
preparations  for  the  means  of  implementing  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
Finally, with the recovery of advanced economies 
gaining  momentum,  we  believe  there  is  an  ample 
window of opportunity to enable a refreshed approach 
that would take our financing for development agenda 
to the next level.
Mr. Momen  (Bangladesh):  We  are  discussing  the 
important issue of financing for development in a high-
level context, at the beginning of a new session of the 
General Assembly. That in itself is a reflection of the 
importance we attach to this subject. The main theme 
for  this  event  goes  beyond  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
and  the  Doha  Declaration.  It  also  encompasses  the 
aggregate  outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations 
conferences and summits.
While  assessing  the  results  and  comparing  them 
against  pledges,  we  need  to  keep  in  mind  all  the 
commitments  made  in  the  different  high-level  events 
in recent years and objectively determine the status of 
promises.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  aligns  itself 
with the interventions made earlier by Fiji on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China and by Benin on behalf of 
least developed countries (LDCs). As they mentioned, 
we  must  seek  to  identify  ways  to  ensure  that  the 
decisions taken in Monterrey, Doha and elsewhere are 
implemented efficiently and urgently.
Let me quickly refer to a few points to flag the views 
and  concerns  of  Bangladesh  before  the  Assembly. 
I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
follow-up  to  and  implementation  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration on Financing for 
Development  (A/68/357).  It  is  really  useful,  and  we 
thank the Secretariat for a job well done.
First of all, let me touch on the issue of trade. In 
both  Monterrey  and  Doha,  our  leaders  recognized 
international  trade  as  an  engine  of  development. 
Unfortunately,  we  have  yet  to  see  real-life  action  to 
realize that recognition by the global leaders. For more 
than  a  decade,  LDCs  have  been  promised  duty-free, 
quota-free  market  access  for  all  their  products  to  all 
developed  countries.  Unfortunately,  we  are  still  far 
from reaching that goal. Sadly, even today LDCs face 
24/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
non-tariff barriers, trade barrier definitions, stringent 
and,  in  some  cases,  unrealistic  rules  of  origin,  strict 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures and myriad other 
barriers to trade. No wonder the global share of LDCs 
in global trade is very low, at around 1 per cent.
Let me share a simple fact. In 1971 there were only 
25  LDCs,  and  their  share  of  global  trade  was  around 
1  per  cent.  Today,  there  are  49  LDCs.  Unfortunately, 
their  share  of  global  trade  still  remains  probably  at 
about  1  per  cent.  That  is  very  sad  for  all  of  us.  Not 
only that, but even that trade is concentrated in a few 
countries  and  a  few  products.  We  ask  the  ministers 
and  leaders  with  whom  we  will  be  meeting  in  Bali 
this  December  to  take  urgent  steps  and  to  come  to  a 
common  understanding  and  decision  to  ensure  that 
LDCs get duty-free and quota-free access to the global 
market in an efficient and effective manner.
to 
To  ensure  that  market  access  is  truly  meaningful 
and  contributes  significantly 
the  development 
efforts  of  LDCs,  we  need  aid  for  trade  and  transfer 
of  technology  at  an  affordable  price  that  will  help 
LDCs  leapfrog  into  the  technology  era  and  thus  into 
the  manufactured-products  market.  Otherwise,  I  am 
afraid our goal of graduating half of the LDCS by 2020, 
as  agreed  in  the  Istanbul  Programme  of  Action,  will 
remain an unfinished agenda.
The  next  priority  for  us  is  of  course  official 
development  assistance  (ODA).  While  the  developed 
countries promised to provide 0.15 to 0.20 per cent of 
their  gross  national  income  (GNI)  to  LDCS  as  ODA 
more  than  a  decade  ago,  we  see  a  declining  trend 
of  ODA  to  the  most  vulnerable  and  marginalized 
countries. In his report, the Secretary-General mentions 
that  aid  to  LDCS  has  dropped  from  0.11  per  cent  of 
development partners’ GNI in 2011 to 0.10 per cent in 
2012. This trend is really alarming. Although we find a 
few donor countries reaching or exceeding their ODA 
commitments  —  and  we  thank  them  for  it  —  we  are 
concerned to see that most of the larger donors reduced 
their ODA in 2012, although we do use aid efficiently.
We must also look critically at the quality of aid. 
We need to follow the guidance of Monterrey and Doha, 
where  it  was  stressed  that  ODA  should  be  demand-
driven, with country ownership.
Although 
the  Monterrey  Consensus  did  not 
specifically  address  the  issue  of  climate  change,  the 
Doha Declaration and, of course, the outcome document 
of the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
highlighted  climatic  vulnerability.  Bangladesh,  being 
a  climate-vulnerable  country,  calls  on  development 
partners to mitigate the impacts of climate change. A 
sea-level rise of one metre would result in the inundation 
of almost one third of my country, and the uprooting or 
displacement of 30 million to 40 million Bangladeshis 
from  their  homes,  traditional  jobs  and  professions.  It 
is  urgent  that  the  global  community  step  forward  to 
address the issue together.
Another important issue for my delegation is that 
of  remittances.  In  Monterrey,  Doha  and  elsewhere, 
remittances  were  recognized  as  a  key  component  of 
and  a  vehicle  for  development  in  poorer  countries, 
and  global  leaders  pledged  to  work  towards  reducing 
the  cost  of  transferring  remittances.  Last  week,  the 
President of the General Assembly organized a High-
level  Dialogue  on  Migration  and  Development  here 
at  the  United  Nations,  at  which  stakeholders  pledged 
to reduce remittance costs and make the system more 
efficient, cost-effective and meaningful. We must fulfil 
those commitments.
like 
Finally,  I  would 
to  renew  Bangladesh’s 
commitment  to  a  pro-people,  pro-planet,  equitable, 
inclusive  and  sustainable  development  agenda.  My 
delegation is always ready to assist all stakeholders in 
ensuring  that  financing  for  development  is  truly  for 
development for all.
Mr. Elmajerbi (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like to thank and commend the President for convening 
this  sixth  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for 
Development.
Libya  would  also  like  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement made by the representative of Fiji on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China, and with the statement 
by the representative of Ethiopia on behalf of the Group 
of African States.
The United Nations has held important international 
meetings  on  development,  including  the  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in 
Monterrey  in  2002.  At  that  conference  we  arrived 
at  a  consensus  on  many  measures  for  mobilizing 
international  financial  resources  and  improving  the 
coordination  of  monetary  systems  and  international 
trade 
the 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis  has  had  a 
negative 
the  commitments  made  at 
Monterrey and other relevant conferences. Taking into 
institutions  for  development.  However, 
impact  on 
13-50226
25/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
account  the  difficulties  involved  in  achieving  those 
commitments,  and  in  order  to  reaffirm  the  objectives 
and commitments of the Monterrey Consensus, in 2008 
the  United  Nations  held  the  Follow-up  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the  Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  in 
Doha.  Those  objectives  included  an  increase  in  aid 
for  development  in  a  partnership  based  on  reciprocal 
responsibility  and  strengthening  capacities  for  peace, 
security, good governance and democracy.
out, the financing needs for the post-2015 development 
agenda and sustainable development will be extremely 
large, far exceeding public-sector resources. Yet more 
than five years after the global financial crisis, the world 
economy  continues  to  be  plagued  by  vulnerabilities 
and an uneven recovery. It is against that complicated 
backdrop that we are addressing the issue of financing 
for development for the post-2015 era. I would like to 
share the views of the Republic of Korea, focusing on 
five key points.
Given  the  close  links  between  economic  growth 
and  the  mobilization  of  local  resources,  the  effect  of 
the  economic  crisis  on  sustainable  development  is 
affecting domestic resource mobilization in developing 
countries.  A  global  economic  system  founded  on 
justice and equity is therefore essential — a system that 
developing countries can participate in so as to ensure 
their economic stability and one that protects the world 
from economic and financial crises.
I should add that when a high level of unemployment 
is hindering the mobilization of domestic resources, it 
is essential to take coordinated measures to combat the 
lack of jobs and create opportunities for work so that 
all who are looking for work may find it, and to create 
beneficial local conditions that encourage both foreign 
and domestic investment.
In addition, international trade has seen rises and 
falls since the international economic crisis began, and 
the inability to conclude the Doha Development Round 
negotiations  has  affected  developing  countries  that 
depend on international trade for financial support in 
implementing  their  development  plans.  Therefore,  we 
must conclude the Doha Round in order to create a just, 
non-discriminatory international trade system that can 
ensure financial resources for the developing countries 
that need them.
In  that  connection,  the  2012  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development recommended 
that a financial committee be created to find financing 
resources  for  development.  We  hope  that  committee 
will  be  able  to  fulfil  its  responsibilities  and  lead 
to  the  appropriation  of  resources  for  financing  for 
development,  so  that  the  aspirations  of  developing 
countries  can  be  better  coordinated  with  global 
multilateral partners.
Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea): As the report 
of the Secretary-General on modalities of the financing 
for  development  follow-up  process  (A/67/353)  points 
First, I would like to recall that at the 2012 United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  our 
leaders recognized that in order to promote sustainable 
development,  we  need  significant  mobilization  of 
resources from a variety of sources and effective use of 
financing. The Republic of Korea believes that should 
serve as a guiding principle in our future deliberations 
on  development  financing.  To  respond  to  the  current 
task of poverty eradication and to new challenges such 
as  climate  change  and  growing  inequalities,  we  need 
to mobilize private, public, domestic and international 
resources.  We  must  also  ensure  the  effectiveness  for 
development  of  all  financial  resources,  particularly 
official  development  assistance  (ODA),  by  increasing 
their stability and predictability.
Secondly, each country is primarily responsible for 
its  own  development,  and  the  bulk  of  each  country’s 
public  resources  for  development  should  come  from 
domestic resource mobilization. The Republic of Korea’s 
own  development  experience  shows  that,  ultimately, 
domestic  resource  mobilization  is  driven  by  inclusive 
and sustained economic growth and that such growth is 
achieved by effective development strategy and policy. 
We also note that many developing countries have the 
capacity to mobilize a significant amount of additional 
resources  through  taxation.  In  that  regard,  efforts  to 
fight corruption, tax evasion and illicit financial flows 
should be strengthened at both the domestic and global 
levels.
Thirdly,  I  emphasize  that  ODA  remains  a  crucial 
component  of  development  financing,  particularly  for 
countries in special situations, including least developed 
countries. It is also an important means of leveraging 
private  financing  for  sustainable  development.  The 
decline  in  ODA  over  the  past  two  years  is  of  great 
concern to all of us. Therefore, the Republic of Korea is 
committed to scaling up its ODA volume. In 2012, we 
expanded our ODA by more than 17 per cent, achieving 
the  highest  rate  of  increase  among  the  member 
26/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
countries  of  the  Development  Assistance  Committee 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development.
Fourthly,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  as  a  member 
of  the  Leading  Group  on  Innovative  Financing  for 
Development,  welcomes  the  efforts  made  thus  far  to 
mobilize new forms of resources. I am pleased to report 
that in support of such innovation, Korea has extended 
its  air-ticket  solidarity  levy  until  2017.  New  funds 
for  climate  financing,  including  the  Green  Climate 
Fund, should also be considered in the broader global 
framework  of  financing  for  sustainable  development. 
As  the  host  country,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  ready 
to  work  with  other  Member  States  for  the  smooth 
launching and early actualization of the Fund.
Lastly,  a  new  development  agenda  and  landscape 
demands a renewed global partnership for development. 
That  renewed  global  partnership  should  be  a  much 
broader form of cooperation that extends beyond mere 
mobilization  of  financial  resources.  It  should  be  an 
inclusive and flexible multi-stakeholder global platform 
and must engage all development actors, including civil 
society and the private sector.
The  Republic  of  Korea  believes  that  the  Busan 
Partnership  for  Effective  Development  Cooperation, 
which was launched in June 2012, can contribute to the 
renewal  and  the  strengthening  of  global  partnership 
for  development  —  for  example,  by  serving  as  the 
mechanism  for  global  mutual  accountability.  The 
first  ministerial-level  meeting  of  the  Busan  Global 
Partnership,  to  be  held  in  Mexico  in  April  2014,  and 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum  high-level 
symposium to be held in Korea in 2015 will contribute 
to  the  advancement  of  a  global  partnership  for 
development, as well as to the interaction between the 
Busan Partnership process and the post-2015 process.
I reiterate the strong commitment of the Republic of 
Korea to constructively engage in international efforts 
on  financing  for  development  and  global  partnership 
for development.
Mr.  Mootaz  Ahmadein  Khalil  (Egypt)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Fiji 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and with the 
statement by the representative of Ethiopia on behalf of 
the African Group.
The  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing 
for 
Development  is  the  main  forum  for  reviewing  the 
that  have  been  made  despite 
commitments 
the 
economic  and  financial  challenges  that  face  the 
global economy. Those include the second wave of the 
international financial and economic crisis, which has 
led to sovereign debt crises, a decline in employment 
and an increase in energy and food prices. All that has 
weighed down developing countries and made it harder 
for  them  to  create  job  opportunities,  reduce  poverty 
and  achieve  economic  and  social  development.  Those 
challenges sorely test the credibility of the commitment 
to  strengthen  international  development  partnerships. 
They require global efforts to attain the internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), that have been reaffirmed 
in  numerous  international  forums,  most  recently  in 
the  Assembly’s  special  event  to  follow  up  on  efforts 
made  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, held on 25 September.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  all  of  us  reaffirmed  the  need  to  face 
new,  existing  and  emerging  challenges  in  the  area  of 
sustainable  development.  That  will  not  occur  without 
the  mobilization  of  financial  resources  to  strengthen 
the  efforts  of  developing  countries.  We  therefore 
welcome the establishment of a global expert group to 
draft  an  international  strategy  to  finance  sustainable 
development.  We  firmly  believe  that  neither  the 
MDGs, the sustainable development goals nor the post-
2015 agenda, which is currently under discussion, can 
be  achieved  without  strengthening  the  international 
development  partnerships  among  developing  and 
developed  countries,  and  among  countries  across 
the  South.  There  must  also  be  partnerships  among 
governmental and non-governmental sectors and civil 
society to strengthen development efforts in developing 
countries by mobilizing additional resources to finance 
development  in  energy,  food  security  and  climate 
change, as well as to achieve the goals and commitments 
set  forth  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha 
Declaration.
Developing countries are making a concerted effort 
to  implement  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha 
Declaration by allocating a large part of their domestic 
resources  for  strategic  development.  Those  countries 
are pursuing sound macroeconomic policies to achieve 
their  development  goals  in  accordance  with  national 
priorities, and are working to advance good governance 
and  transparency.  However,  success  at  the  national 
level  also  requires  appropriate  levels  of  international 
involvement  that  reflect  the  crucial  importance  of 
13-50226
27/29
A/68/PV.29 
07/10/2013
development in the international agenda, as well as the 
international will to further such actions.
honour 
Developed 
countries  must 
their 
commitments,  especially  their  official  development 
assistance (ODA) contributions of 0.7 per cent of gross 
national income. At the Gleneagles Summit, the Group 
of Eight spoke of the need to increase ODA to Africa 
and  of  the  importance  of  honouring  their  political 
declaration  on  the  needs  of  Africa.  However,  none  of 
those commitments has yet been achieved.
Various  actions  must  be  undertaken 
to  put 
innovative mechanisms in place. However, we believe 
that  the  resources  resulting  from  those  mechanisms 
should  be  in  addition  to  and  complementary  to  those 
derived  from  traditional  resources  such  as  ODA,  and 
that  they  should  not  be  considered  a  substitute  for 
those  traditional  resources.  In  that  regard,  we  believe 
that we must first strengthen the role of international 
trade  development  and  that  the  ninth  ministerial 
conference  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  to  meet 
in Bali in December, should adopt measures that will 
reaffirm and activate the mandate of the Doha Round 
and  improve  the  access  of  developing  countries  to 
international markets.
request 
that  an 
Secondly,  we 
international 
mechanism  be  established  for  all  countries,  both 
creditors and debtors, to implement a global approach 
to debt, including the debt of medium-sized countries, 
while  dealing  with  the  negative  impact  that  the 
international financial crisis has had on those countries’ 
inability to pay their foreign debts.
Thirdly,  we  request  that  coordinated  and  serious 
international  efforts  be  undertaken  to  take  clear 
measures to repatriate fleeing capital to the countries of 
origin. The return of such resources will strengthen the 
development  efforts  of  developing  countries  and  will 
assist  in  combating  corruption  and  organized  crime, 
which undermine development efforts.
that 
Fourthly,  we  ask 
the  participation  and 
representation  of  developing  countries  be  enhanced 
in  international  decision-making  processes,  so  that 
the  required  reforms  are  undertaken  in  the  economic 
and  financial  international  systems.  In  that  regard, 
we  reiterate  how  important  it  is  for  there  to  be  fair 
representation  for  developing  countries,  in  particular 
those  in  Africa,  in  all  informal  multi-stakeholder, 
multilateral global entities and mechanisms involved in 
international economic and financial decision-making 
processes. We also reiterate the importance of the United 
Nations maintaining the primary role in monitoring the 
progress that is hoped for, with the support of all other 
mechanisms, forums and bodies.
Fifthly, Egypt hopes for consensus among Member 
States on the holding of another conference to review 
the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration 
and  to  identify  any  obstacles  to  their  implementation 
and the means of dealing with such obstacles. Such a 
conference must be held in the near future in order to 
allow for its outcomes to be taken into account in the 
process  of  setting  out  the  post-2015  United  Nations 
development agenda.
Egypt, like other developing countries, has suffered 
from the effects and challenges of the food crisis, the 
energy crisis and the international financial crisis. As 
a developing country and a net importer of food, Egypt 
has  seen  its  economy  affected  by  challenges  having 
to  do  with  the  resources  needed  to  improve  living 
conditions and guarantee justice and social integration 
while ensuring the conditions necessary to strengthen 
Egypt’s  current  democratic  transformation.  There  is 
no  doubt  that  implementing  the  five  proposals  I  just 
mentioned would contribute to finding solutions to the 
challenges facing many developing countries.
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  I  am  mindful  of  the 
clock, and therefore a full version of my comments will 
be available at a later stage.
New Zealand welcomes this opportunity to review 
efforts  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus  and  Doha  Declaration  —  objectives  that 
remain  very  relevant  as  work  begins  on  the  post-
2015  development  agenda.  Many  have  noted  the  need 
to  address  implementation  issues  from  the  outset, 
particularly  for  the  sustainable  development  goals. 
What is already very evident is that a business-as-usual 
approach will not be enough. We must use all options 
that might be available for mobilizing financing. Most 
of  those  options  were  recognized  at  Monterrey  and 
Doha, but they have yet to achieve their full potential.
Despite 
the  global 
financial  crisis  and 
the 
patchy  recovery  from  it,  New  Zealand’s  own  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  levels  remain  fairly 
stable. Indeed, we can now project an increase as the 
Government’s accounts move back into fiscal balance.
Development effectiveness and donor coordination 
are  key  to  getting  value  from  every  single  ODA 
dollar.  In  our  own  region,  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
28/29 
13-50226
07/10/2013 
A/68/PV.29
Compact  —  the  Cairns  Compact  on  Strengthening 
Development  Coordination  in  the  Pacific  —  has 
improved  effectiveness,  including  through  its  peer 
review mechanism.
Traditional  financing  mechanisms  can  now  be 
supplemented by new partnerships, including with the 
private sector. The Busan Forum on Aid Effectiveness 
recognized  the  need  for  more  inclusive  partnerships 
built on country ownership. New Zealand has leveraged 
its ODA to build different partnerships, including those 
for  renewable  energy  projects  that  emerged  from  the 
recent Pacific Energy Summit held in Auckland.
New Zealand agrees with Belize, speaking earlier 
on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States, on the 
need for cooperation, partnership and collective action. 
Therefore,  against 
that  background,  we  welcome 
the  partnerships  theme  for  the  2014  International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  to  be 
held in Samoa, and particularly note Samoa’s plans to 
launch a partnership to create jobs for youth. However, 
no one size fits all. We must be open to a whole new 
and different range of ways of doing things that deliver 
results on the ground regardless of their structures.
Trade  remains  central  to  economic  growth  and 
recovery.  One  way  to  advance  the  position  of  the 
world’s disadvantaged is to create a framework within 
which they could trade effectively. We therefore agree 
with  Qatar,  Brazil,  Bangladesh  and  others  that  we 
must intensify efforts to move forward with the Doha 
Development Agenda process, including by achieving a 
successful outcome at the ninth ministerial conference 
of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  to  be  held  in  Bali, 
which  so  many  have  advocated  —  an  outcome  that 
could be a stepping-stone towards efforts to conclude 
the wider Doha Development Agenda in the post-Bali 
period.
Over  the  next  year,  we  will  set  the  scene  for  the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  We  have  already  seen 
the  Report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons 
on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda.  The  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts 
on  Sustainable  Development  Financing  will  report 
in  September  2014.  Other  bodies  and  stakeholders, 
such  as  the  Development  Assistance  Committee  of 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development and next year’s ministerial level meeting 
of  the  Global  Partnership  for  Effective  Development 
Cooperation,  can  also  contribute.  In  short,  we  should 
all be open to ideas from all such sources as we work 
together for a better future for all.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
13-50226
29/29
