United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
8th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 25 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.8
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Touré (Guinea), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
democracy — these are all integral parts of sustainable 
development.
The meeting was called to order at 9.15 a.m.
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Estonia.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas 
Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ilves:  The  central  theme  of  the  sixty-
eighth session of the General Assembly is sustainable 
development. With its three main pillars this constitutes 
a comprehensive agenda, even more comprehensive with 
all  of  its  prerequisites:  conflict  prevention,  bringing 
peace and security to war-torn countries and bringing 
perpetrators  to  justice  through  the  implementation 
of  international  law.  Helping  the  weakest  to  help 
themselves,  shaping  economies 
that  pay  focused 
attention  to  social-agenda  and  environmental  issues 
and  that  effectively  use  e-technologies,  protecting 
human  rights  and  supporting  the  rule  of  law  and 
The  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  notes 
that  Governments  bear  the  primary  responsibility  for 
assuring sustainable development and for improving the 
lives of people in their territories. Sustainability can be 
truly implemented, however, only if we instil it in the 
core  thinking  of  Governments,  societies,  individuals 
and the international community as a whole.
Let  me  start  with  what  is  clearly  and  without  a 
doubt the most unsustainable situation in the world at 
the moment: the conflict in Syria. It has been repeated 
thousands and thousands of times, and must continue to 
be repeated over and over again, that the use of chemical 
weapons  is  unacceptable  under  any  circumstances 
and  requires  complete  and  unreserved  condemnation. 
It  is  clear  that  chemical  weapons  must  be  destroyed 
quickly and verifiably. Therefore the Organisation for 
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the Security 
Council must — and I emphasize must — move forward 
and agree on the legally binding terms to resolve that 
issue, preferably under Chapter VII of the Charter, as 
soon as possible.
Even  without  the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  the 
military actions and brutality which have occurred in 
Syria have created suffering and a humanitarian disaster 
of  unimaginable  proportions.  More 
than  110,000 
people have been killed, and millions of refugees and 
internally  displaced  persons  are  scattered  around  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48557 (E)
*1348557*
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
region. About 7 million Syrians are in urgent need of 
assistance.
While there is no quick or easy fix to that complex 
situation,  we  must  keep  doing  what  we  can  to  ease 
human suffering. Estonia is one of many countries that 
have  been  focusing  on  helping  those  who  have  been 
forced to flee from their homes and protecting the most 
vulnerable members of society: women and children. I 
would also like to praise the good work of UNICEF, the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and humanitarian workers in Syria who often by risking 
their own lives, have been able to organize and deliver 
assistance.
Evidence collected by the Human Rights Council’s 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry 
indicates that war crimes, crimes against humanity and 
gross human rights violations have been systematically 
committed  in  Syria.  Estonia  is  among  the  countries 
that  joined  the  Swiss  initiative  in  January,  asking  the 
Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the 
International Criminal Court. It is the responsibility of 
the international community to protect, if a Government 
fails to do so.
In  contrast,  let  me  turn  to  a  country  and  conflict 
where hope has been restored recently. That presidential 
elections  in  Mali  were  carried  out  in  a  peaceful  and 
transparent  manner  has  paved  the  way  for  optimism. 
The newly elected President has many important tasks 
ahead,  beginning  with  reconciliation  between  the 
southern and northern parts of Mali. I wish Mr. Keita all 
the luck and energy he will need to rebuild his country, 
and  I  can  assure  him  that  Estonia  stands  among  the 
countries that will continue to help if needed.
I  venture  to  say  that  another  country  whose 
future  looks  promising  is  Afghanistan.  I  believe  that 
responsibility  and  ownership  make  people  masters 
of  their  own  fate,  and  I  can  see  the  willingness  of 
Afghans  to  avail  themselves  of  that  opportunity.  The 
international  community  must  continue  to  assist  that 
country  in  order  to  ensure  that  their  efforts  will  bear 
fruit.  As  a  long-term  partner  of  Afghanistan,  Estonia 
remains  committed  to  assisting  with  the  training  and 
financing  of  Afghan  security  forces  after  2014,  while 
continuing  to  support  educational  progress,  women’s 
empowerment, the rule of law and health care.
It  is  also  sadly  true  that  conflicts  can  at  times 
be  alarmingly  sustainable.  For  years,  Estonia  has 
emphasized  that  protracted  conflicts  around  Nagorno 
Karabakh  and  in  Georgia  and  Moldova  must  not  fall 
off  the  radar  screen  of  the  international  community. 
Without the will of all the involved parties, no lasting 
solutions can be found.
Every year, over half a million people die as a result 
of  illegal  or  irresponsible  arms  transfers.  Enormous 
amounts  of  money  and  resources  are  spent  on  arms, 
often at the expense of far more vital needs. We view 
the adoption in June of the Arms Trade Treaty, within 
the  framework  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  historic 
milestone for the world community.
As  a  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community, Estonia strongly supports and contributes 
to  the  activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  established  by  the  Security 
Council. We continue to call for more States to ratify 
the  Rome  Statute  and  the  amendments  to  the  Rome 
Statute relating to the crime of aggression. Universality 
is  key  to  ensuring  that  the  perpetrators  of  the  worst 
crimes of concern to the international community are 
held  accountable.  Accountability  and  the  prevention 
of  atrocities  have  been  the  priorities  of  Estonia  as  a 
current member of the Human Rights Council. In the 
Council,  we  also  focus  on  the  rights  of  women  and 
children and on their disproportionate suffering during 
armed conflict.
The  post-2015  sustainable  development  agenda 
should  transform  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  into  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  the 
meantime,  we  have  learned  that  the  MDGs  should 
have focused more on reaching the poorest and most-
excluded groups in society. The main challenge of the 
post-2015  negotiations  will  be  to  formulate  and  reach 
global  agreement  on  one  concrete  and  measurable 
set  of  development  goals  that  would  keep  the  three 
dimensions of sustainability in its core and maintain a 
strong focus on poverty eradication. The targets should 
leave no one behind and be applicable and achievable 
in every country.
In  many  societies,  women  and  girls  are  the  main 
drivers of development. Not allowing them to fulfil their 
potential  through  education,  decent  job  opportunities 
and  essential  health  services  is  to  disregard  the 
potential of one half of humankind. It is also important 
to  remember  that  persons  with  disabilities  have  been 
one  of  the  most  excluded  segments  of  our  societies, 
although they often have serious difficulties with access 
to basic social services and decent job opportunities.
2/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
Official  development  assistance  will  continue  to 
play an important role in the sustainable development 
of many countries in the future, but it cannot compete 
with  the  flow  of  international  private  investment  nor 
with  domestically  mobilized  resources.  Therefore, 
synergies  between  different  sources  of 
finance, 
better  policies  and  strong  national  ownership  are 
necessary. Nonetheless, the main drivers of sustainable 
development  are  inclusive  and  responsible  economic 
policies.  A  key  enabler  of  growth  is  the  bold  use  of 
modern  integrated  circuit  technology  solutions.  They 
promote  better  governance,  access  to  public  services, 
job  creation,  transparency,  accountability  and  civil 
society participation.
That  brings  me  to  two  issues  of  worldwide 
importance:  cybersecurity  and  Internet  freedom.  The 
two are intrinsically linked and in no way incompatible. 
Moreover, they will require a multi-stakeholder model 
of  Internet  governance.  Freedom  of  opinion  and 
expression, online or offline, is a cornerstone of every 
democracy and constitutes a fundamental human right. 
Last year, the Human Rights Council affirmed that very 
same principle. I am glad that the United Nations Group 
of Governmental Experts on Cyber Issues affirmed that 
international  law  is  essential  in  promoting  an  open, 
secure and accessible cyberspace.
In our fight against cybercrime, it is essential to raise 
awareness and to work on prevention by everyone, from 
private  computer  users  to  large  critical  infrastructure 
and cloud providers. Raising the awareness of political 
leaders and national governments is equally important; 
cybercrime may have serious consequences for national 
security as well as national wealth. Yet the Council of 
Europe’s 2001 European Cybercrime Treaty — renamed 
the Convention on Cybercrime because participants are 
from all over the world, and also known as the Budapest 
Convention — remains thus far the only legally binding 
international  instrument  that  addresses  cybercrime. 
Needless  to  say,  the  more  countries  accede  to  it,  the 
more  functional  it  will  become.  We  find  it  odd  that 
those countries with the largest sources of cybercrime 
have  not  acceded  to  the  Convention,  while  in  other 
areas they stress the primacy of international law.
The  United  Nations  has  had  and  will  continue  to 
have a leading role in making the world sustainable. Yet 
Governments can do and must do their own fair share. 
Estonia, for example, proudly continues to support the 
initiatives of civil society in contributing to sustainable 
development.  Approximately  one  half  of  the  world’s 
countries have joined our 2008 initiative “Let’s Do It!” 
to make people’s environments cleaner and our planet 
environmentally happier.
Let  us  remain  alert  and  tuned  in  to  every  single 
detail  that  prevents  us  from  advancing  our  common 
well-being, be it in developed or in developing countries. 
Let us be united in that common effort.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Estonia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Panama.
Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricardo 
Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Martinelli Berrocal (spoke in Spanish): 
It  is  a  great  honour  for  my  country  to  congratulate 
Mr. Ashe upon his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. He can count on 
the unconditional support of the delegation of Panama 
during his tenure. We cannot think of a more appropriate 
theme for this high-level debate than to focus on “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”. 
The  theme  invites  us  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
continuing to work towards an agreement on the new 
development agenda. The agenda will be available for 
our people and the planet. 
The 13 years that have elapsed since we identified 
a way to achieve development through the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) have witnessed the fastest 
reduction  in  poverty  in  the  history  of  mankind.  In 
that  connection,  we  as  Panamanians  have  had  great 
pleasure in carrying out studies indicating that half a 
billion  fewer  people  now  live  below  the  poverty  line, 
13-48557
3/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
that  infant  mortality  rates  have  fallen  by  over  30  per 
cent, and that deaths owing to malaria have declined by 
a quarter, among other things. 
Panama has presented three national reports on the 
MDGs. They have demonstrated our country’s progress 
in improving the living conditions of our population and 
in setting the issue of poverty as a priority on the social 
agenda  and  focusing  the  Government’s  contribution 
on  achieving  clear,  concrete  and  measurable  goals  to 
reduce poverty and the inequality gap. We have made 
notable progress in various areas. That is where we need 
to  redouble  our  efforts  so  as  to  provide  Panamanian 
citizens with a better future and so that all may benefit 
from a better Panama.
In  2012,  along  with  17  other  countries,  Panama 
received the Americas Award for reducing poverty and 
hunger. On behalf of the people of Panama, we recently 
accepted an award from the United Nations Food and 
Agricultural  Organization  for  reaching  the  goal  of 
eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  between 
1990 and 2015, by halving the number of people who 
suffer from hunger and by reducing the prevalence of 
undernourishment by 50 per cent or more, with respect 
to the levels in 1990-1992, now below five per cent. We 
are pleased with the work we have done.
For  the  first  time  in  history,  humankind  has  the 
technological,  economic  and  sociopolitical  structures 
to  eradicate  extreme  poverty.  With  an  agenda  for 
development  coordinated  between  the  public  and 
private  sectors  and  civil  society,  we  can  carry  out 
a  meaningful  process  that  makes  a  difference  and 
reaches everybody. Because of its capacity and scope, 
the United Nations has played a facilitating role, unlike 
that  of  any  other  organization,  in  order  to  coordinate 
the global conversation about development, and it has 
a special responsibility to its Member States to provide 
information,  analytical  thinking  and  experience  from 
the field.
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  establishing  a  United  Nations  task  force 
and  in  particular  for  convening  the  High-level  Panel 
of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development 
Agenda, whose extraordinary efforts are now giving us 
more insights into a more productive discussion about 
what  path  we  should  follow.  The  post-2015  agenda 
should focus on eradicating extreme poverty from the 
face of the Earth within a set time frame. Countries have 
learned  much  about  development.  We  have  realized 
that  development  that  is  not  sustainable  is  simply  not 
development.
The  MDGs  were  silent  on  conflict  and  the  effect 
of violence on global development, nor was the impact 
and importance of institutions that guarantee freedom 
of  expression  and  the  rule  of  law  for  development 
included. The Government of the Republic of Panama 
believes that we need to integrate the economic, social 
and  environmental  aspects  of  development  more 
sustainably.  For  that  we  support  the  efforts  resulting 
from decisions made at the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro and the 
work  resulting  from  the  meetings  convened  for  the 
establishment of the High-level Political Forum.
Global inequality is still prevalent and very much 
a  part  of  this  conversation.  Some  1.2  billion  people 
account for only 1 per cent of global consumption. The 
Republic of Panama has successfully reformed its trade, 
tax policies and transparency. In the same manner, we 
have reviewed the regulation of our financial markets 
and productivity. As a result, we have, as far as possible, 
charted  a  successful  path  towards  development.  It  is 
clear that now we face even greater challenges, different 
from the previous ones.
Financing  development  is  not  easy,  but  we  have 
a  great  capacity  and  the  patterns  of  productivity  are 
becoming  more  sustainable  and  equitable.  Panama 
supports the view that the post-2015 agenda must make 
sustainable  development  a  cornerstone  and  not  leave 
anyone behind.
The  original  promise  of  the  MDGs  must  be 
kept.  The  new  route  towards  development  must  be 
transformed from reducing poverty to ending extreme 
poverty. Furthermore, the fight against inequality must 
be  a  substantial  part  of  our  development  agenda  and 
should  be  measured  by  the  social  inclusion  generated 
from economic growth. The promotion and protection 
of universal human rights must be an integral part of a 
post-2015 development agenda.
Similarly, institutions and the rule of law must be 
evaluated  as  contributions  toward  the  development  of 
countries.  Equally,  a  sustainable  planet  is  crucial  not 
just  for  the  growth  of  our  peoples,  but  also  for  their 
survival.  Finding  a  solution  for  global  environmental 
problems  should  be  a  priority  of  the  development 
agenda.  That  is  why  we  support  the  integration  of 
sustainable  development  objectives  into  the  post-2015 
agenda.
4/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
Panamanians  believe  that  unless  we  forge  a 
global partnership, nothing we say in this Hall will be 
effective. We need a new spirit of mutual accountability 
that supports the post-2015 agenda and the work done 
by  the  United  Nations  towards  that  end.  There  is  no 
doubt  that  the  post-2015  agenda  will  depend  on  new 
economic partnerships and financing.
The  post-2015  agenda  cannot  possibly  succeed 
without the active support of the Group of 20 and the 
institutions  of  economic  cooperation  and  governance, 
such as the International Monetary Fund and the World 
Trade  Organization.  The  General  Assembly  has  been 
given an historic opportunity to promote a platform for 
global development, with so many leaders present here, 
together, with only one theme in mind. We believe that 
effective political leadership emanating from the high-
level event on the Millennium Development Goals and 
its  forum  can  give  us  decisive  momentum  to  make  a 
legitimate change to our post-2015 agenda.
As we ponder the post-2015 development agenda, we 
cannot set aside the purpose for which this Organization 
was  created,  namely,  to  ensure  the  maintenance  of 
world peace, through undivided and full respect for the 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people 
on Earth, without any discrimination. 
In that regard, we cannot let this moment pass without 
expressing the deep concern that Panama shares with 
many members of the Assembly on the grave situation 
in Syria. We condemn, in the strongest terms, the use 
of  chemical  weapons  against  the  civilian  population 
of  Syria.  We  share  the  view  that  such  acts  constitute 
a  crime  against  humanity  that  should  be  investigated 
and punished in accordance with the norms of existing 
international law. We firmly call upon all members of 
the Security Council to assume their responsibilities to 
ensure compliance with international humanitarian law 
and international protection of the human rights of the 
Syrian people.
We are concerned about the escalating violence in 
the Middle East and the veiled and open threats of the 
use of nuclear weapons, which infringe on the right of 
countries and peoples to live in peace in their territories. 
Our global Organization has the supreme duty to speak 
forcefully and clearly in support of world peace and the 
right  of  humankind  to  continue  living  on  our  planet. 
In this crucial time for life and survival on Earth, we 
must  not  fall  into  the  habit  of  believing  that  nothing 
serious is happening and that life will still go on after 
the atomic mushroom cloud delivers its final verdict of 
death  to  every  species  on  the  planet.  The  number  of 
interested parties in the Middle East with nuclear power 
and the capacity to introduce and test weapons of mass 
destruction in a conflict situation is sufficiently large 
that those of us gathered here cannot afford to ignore 
what  is  happening  there.  This  is  no  time  to  hide  our 
heads in the sand like ostriches, thinking that we can 
thereby stave off the danger that threatens us and save 
our lives. It is rather the moment to firmly demonstrate 
our collective responsibility to defend world peace and 
life itself.
I  wish  to  inform  the  General  Assembly  that 
my  Government  is  aware  of  a  request  made  by  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua  to  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf, 
established under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, to extend its continental shelf beyond 
200  nautical  miles.  Without  objecting  to  the  right  of 
the Republic of Nicaragua to make such a request, as 
stated in paragraph 8 of article 76 of the Convention, 
my  Government  wishes  to  express  its  strong  concern 
about the fact that the coordinates given in Nicaragua’s 
application  constitute  an  unquestionable  infringement 
on  our  maritime  space  and  on  treaties  between  the 
Republic  of  Panama  and  its  neighbours,  resulting  in 
a  reduction  of  our  maritime  area  of  49,892.54  square 
kilometres. 
The  serious  concern  on  the  part  of  the  people 
and  the  Government  of  Panama  is  not  motivated  by 
Nicaragua’s request to extend its continental shelf but 
rather because, despite the fact that our two countries 
are  connected  through  friendship,  geographic  and 
regional  proximity  and  political  and  economic 
integration,  we  were  not  consulted  before  the  request 
was made, so that we could consider all of its possible 
effects.  The  Republic  of  Panama,  in  accordance  with 
its  national  Constitution,  complies  with  the  standards 
of  international  law  and  has  always  recognized  the 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice as one 
way  of  achieving  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes, 
as laid out in Chapter VI of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
In  that  regard,  we  should  also  emphasize  that 
according to article 59 of the Statute of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  the  decisions  handed  down  by  the 
world’s highest universal tribunal should neither benefit 
nor  harm  third  parties.  My  Government  is  therefore 
compelled  to  categorically  reject  the  Republic  of 
Nicaragua’s attempt to delimit its maritime boundaries 
13-48557
5/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
in  this  manner,  since  it  violates  existing  treaties  with 
the Republic of Panama that we have complied with in 
good  faith,  as  well  as  our  legitimate  maritime  rights, 
recognized and accepted by the international community 
in  that  area.  In  accordance  with  international  law,  I 
will produce all the necessary evidence to correct the 
Republic of Nicaragua’s efforts in this matter. But on 
the occasion of the current session, officials from both 
our countries have begun the process of resolving our 
disagreement,  which  I  hope  will  soon  reach  a  happy 
conclusion.
Today I also wish to mention a third issue that is 
very  important  to  Panama,  the  case  of  the  merchant 
vessel MV Chong Chon Gang, sailing under the North 
Korean  flag,  detained  in  Panama  since  mid-July.  My 
country, as a State Member of this international forum, 
complies with the norms and regulations of its internal 
bodies,  and  article  4  of  our  Constitution  requires 
Panama to comply with the norms of international law. 
That mandate has governed all of our acts as a nation. 
The  vessel  in  question  was  transporting  undeclared 
war  materiel  from  the  Republic  of  Cuba  destined  for 
North Korea. Acting on intelligence that we obtained, 
we  detained  the  vessel  before  its  transit  through  the 
Canal on the suspicion that the cargo contained drugs. 
When the ship was seized, an enormous amount of war 
materiel  —  which,  by  definition  and  because  of  its 
destination, clearly violated Security Council Sanctions 
Committee mandates — was discovered hidden under 
200 tons of raw sugar.
In compliance with the mandates in question, my 
Government  notified  a  panel  of  experts  and  invited 
them to Panama to verify the findings and confirm our 
initial impression, as presented by the drugs prosecutor 
who  initiated  the  investigation  under  the  Republic  of 
Panama’s  laws.  The  panel  inspected  the  cargo  and 
later  made  a  preliminary  report  in  accordance  with 
Security Council resolutions. The evidence is now with 
the  Security  Council.  My  Government  would  like  to 
emphasize the significance of the action it took, not just 
as a Member State but also in its promotion of respect 
for  the  decisions  of  this  body  and  of  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  nations.  We  are  talking  here  about  an 
unprecedented  and  possibly  unique  situation,  at  least 
on our continent, which is why I stress its importance 
today. Panama complied with its duty as a Member State, 
even in the face of possible risks, high material costs 
and potential consequences to be defined in accordance 
with Panamanian law, as outlined in Security Council 
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009) and 2094 (2013).
As  President  of  a  sovereign  nation,  I  have  not 
come  before  this  forum  to  demand  action  against  the 
countries  involved  in  the  incident.  Panama  simply 
desires and requests recognition that our conduct was 
based on our firm wish to comply with the rules that the 
Organization has laid down. We will respect the results 
of the investigation, and we wish to make it clear that 
Panama  has  no  issue  with  the  States  involved  in  the 
matter, which is why its settlement is not a bilateral one. 
We Panamanians did our duty, and the United Nations 
must  now  also  do  its  duty,  at  a  time  when  following 
the  rule  of  law  is  the  only  way  to  solve  the  delicate 
international  problems  that  threaten  the  peaceful  and 
human coexistence of the peoples of the world. 
Panama  and 
its  people  anxiously  await 
just 
recognition of their act, which we see as an important 
precedent  for  our  hemisphere.  We  call  on 
the 
international  community  to  implement  programmes 
and  solutions  conducive  to  peace.  Panama  reaffirms 
its  historical  position  that  we  should  use  the  tools  of 
mediation and dialogue to deal with all current conflicts 
in  the  region  and  to  seek  solutions  that  defend  and 
protect the right of peoples to live and work in peace.
Since the end of my term is approaching and this 
is the last address I will give to the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  say  that  I  feel  the  satisfaction  of  a  task 
completed as I leave Panama in the place it now occupies 
in  the  world.  We  leave  behind  a  legacy  of  social  and 
political stability and sustained high economic growth 
throughout  the  Latin  American  region,  and  we  have 
helped to promote and build the common welfare of the 
Panamanian nation. 
I would like to cite some favourable statistics that 
illustrate our growth and social welfare, published by 
entirely  credible  international  entities.  On  the  index 
of  human  development  for  2012,  according  to  the 
United  Nations,  Panama  is  classified  as  a  country  of 
high  human  development,  scoring  0.780  as  compared 
to the average for Latin America, which is 0.741, and 
for the world as a whole, which is 0.694. In a country 
of  3.63  million  inhabitants,  1.83  million  are  men  and 
1.79 million are women, according to the United Nations 
Human  Development  Report  2013.  On  the  literacy 
index,  Panama  is  at  94.1  per  cent,  also  according  to 
the Human Development Report 2013. Panama invests 
4.6  per  cent  of  its  gross  national  product  in  public 
expenditures  for  culture  and  health,  the  highest  level 
in Central America, according to the Genral Treasury 
of the Republic. Average life expectancy in my country 
6/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
is  76.3  years,  according  to  the  Human  Development 
Report 2013.
When it comes to the enjoyment of political rights, 
we have a rating of 1 according to Freedom House in 
2012. Panama’s competitive ranking on the 2013 index 
of the World Economic Forum was forty-eighth out of 
148 countries reviewed, and its Fitch investment rating 
was  upgraded  from  BB+  to  BBB,  indicating  a  stable 
perspective.  Our  Moody’s  rating  was  Baa2,  a  stable 
perspective,  and  according  to  Standard  and  Poors 
we  rose  from  BB+  to  BBB,  again  indicating  a  stable 
perspective. 
The  latest  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade 
and  Development  report  shows  Panama  as  one  of  the 
highest ranked Latin American countries for maritime 
connectivity.  According  to  the  2013  index,  Panama 
improved  its  score  from  42.38  to  44.88,  similar  to 
Mexico,  which  moved  from  38.81  to  41.80,  while 
Brazil  dropped  from  38.53  to  36.88.  The  United 
Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean estimates that Paraguay leads Latin 
American  growth  with  an  increase  of  12.5  per  cent 
in  gross  domestic  product,  followed  by  Panama,  with 
7.5 per cent.The International Monetary Fund estimates 
regional gross domestic product growth in the region as 
follows for 2013: Paraguay at 11 per cent and Panama 
at 9 per cent. In sum, Panama is on a firm path to full 
development, and with the support of the international 
community  we  will  continue  responsibly  to  meet  the 
challenges  that  still  face  us  in  order  to  achieve  the 
sustainable  development  for  the  well-being  of  all  our 
citizens.
The year 2013 has been one of great international 
events for our country. We will soon have the honour for 
the second time of hosting a Summit of the Americas, 
the  thirteenth,  when  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
will  discuss  the  Ibero-American  community  within 
the  new  global  context  as  it  pertains  to  the  political, 
economic,  social  and  cultural  spheres.  In  November, 
we will also host the forthcoming Conference of States 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Corruption, which reflects the priority that our country 
accords  to  the  struggle  against  corruption  as  a  factor 
in development. In a similar vein, we will continue to 
advance projects for the establishment in our country 
of  a  regional  hub  for  humanitarian  assistance  and 
of  a  regional  centre  of  the  United  Nations  for  Latin 
America and the Caribbean. That project will serve as 
our contribution to the international community, with 
respect both to humanitarian actors and to the United 
Nations system, and expresses our full support for their 
efforts on behalf of those most in need.
I  am  an  optimistic  man.  I  believe  in  human 
intelligence  and  in  the  capacity  of  our  species  to 
recognize errors and dangers in order to change course 
and  ensure  our  continuity  on  this  planet.  Moreover, 
the nation of men and women of which I am the leader 
shares  the  dreams  of  a  world  united  by  its  respect 
for  life  and  by  the  way  it  values  and  loves  the  vast 
cultural heritage that has been built by generation upon 
generation  of  people.  I  am  convinced  that  however 
great  the  challenges  and  dangers  that  lie  in  wait  for 
us  may  be,  we  will  know  how  to  meet  and  overcome 
them with courage and intelligence. Nevertheless, I feel 
compelled to mention the great dangers that surround 
us  today.  Only  through  concerted,  responsible  action 
will we be able to overcome the difficult hour that faces 
humankind.
Today, multilateralism itself is being sorely tested. 
We  are  facing  one  of  the  most  serious  and  decisive 
moments  in  the  history  of  the  planet  and  the  human 
race. At this unprecedented moment, the Organization 
will have to take serious decisions in order to honour its 
responsibility to our peoples with concrete results. The 
Governments  of  the  world  need  to  focus  their  efforts 
on raising the level of discussion so that our ambitious 
contract with humankind and our planet can be fulfiled 
in time. Not to do so in the face of all the destructive 
forces that exist on the face of the Earth, and to allow 
the  passions  that  lead  peoples  and  nations  to  conflict 
and war to be unleashed, would be to lose one of the last 
remaining opportunities for humankind. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Panama for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Ricardo  Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Alassane Ouattara, 
President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. 
13-48557
7/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane 
Ouattara,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ouattara  (spoke  in  French):  Like  the 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  who  have  spoken 
before me, I would like, on behalf of the delegation of 
Côte  D’Ivoire  and  on  my  own  behalf,  to  address  my 
sincere congratulations to Mr. Ashe on his outstanding 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-eighth session. I also wish in particular to thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  ki-Moon  for  his  leadership  of 
the  Organization  and  his  commitment  to  world  peace 
and development. I take this opportunity to reiterate to 
him, in the name of my counterparts in the Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  our 
gratitude for his personal involvement in the resolution 
of conflicts in Africa and especially in the subregion of 
West Africa.
Before touching on the topic of today’s debate, in 
taking the floor for the second time before the Assembly 
I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  gratitude  of  the  Ivorian 
people  for  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community on our behalf. Indeed, thanks 
to  that  invaluable  support,  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  now  hard 
at work and has returned to the path of economic and 
social  development  for  the  well-being  of  all  Ivorians. 
My country is in a period of full reconstruction after 
establishing  credible  and  democratic 
institutions 
following 
elections.  National 
reconciliation and political dialogue are under way in 
a climate of peace. We are aware of the challenges that 
remain, but we are on the right path.
transparent 
free, 
The 
theme  for 
this  session,  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”, calls on us all 
individually  and  collectively  to  consider  our  capacity 
to  meet  the  development  challenge.  As  we  approach 
the  2015  target  date  for  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, it should be noted that significant 
progress  has  been  achieved  by  most  countries,  and 
we  welcome  the  determination  of  all  Governments 
to  continue  their  efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium 
commitments. 
Although  much  remains  to  be  done  and  the 
progress made can mask various national and regional 
realities,  the  current  trend  appears  to  be  irreversible, 
despite a particularly difficult economic environment. 
We  must  seek  to  build  on  the  positive  outcomes  that 
have  been  achieved  in  a  number  of  areas,  such  as 
primary  school  enrolment,  vaccinations  and  slowing 
the spread of HIV/AIDS. We must also resolve issues 
of  food  security,  drought,  access  to  drinking  water 
and  combating  poverty,  which  continue  to  be  major 
concerns for our States.
By  adopting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
we  have  the  collective  responsibility  and  ambition  to 
improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens and 
thereby accelerate the development of our countries. As 
far as my country, Côte d’Ivoire, is concerned, progress 
towards  meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
which  was  deadlocked  because  of  the  sociopolitical 
crisis,  has  today  gained  new  momentum,  thanks 
to  the  sound  performance  of  our  economy.  It  is  in 
that  favourable  climate  that  the  Government  has 
established  an  ambitious  reconstruction  programme, 
which  is  based  on  the  national  development  plan  for 
the  period  2012-2015.  Social  investments  being  a 
priority  in  that  programme,  the  programme  allocates 
substantial  amounts  to  education,  health  and  basic 
social  infrastructure.  The  Government  has  also  made 
job  creation  a  national  priority,  in  particular  jobs  for 
young people, and its goal is to create 200,000 jobs a 
year, which is a considerable number given the size of 
our country. 
As we assess what has been accomplished, we must 
face the fact that the world needs greater solidarity to 
reach  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Therefore, 
we  must  adopt  a  comprehensive  approach  that  will 
enable our countries to create sustainable development 
models  that  are  more  equitable  and  more  respectful 
of our differences. The African continent, which lags 
behind  in  the  effort  to  achieve  the  Goals  by  2015, 
can  nevertheless  count  on  an  increasing  share  in  the 
global economy because of its growth rate. My country 
therefore supports the definition of a post-2015 agenda 
to  forge  a  new  consensus  regarding  a  new  generation 
of  sustainable  development  goals,  based  on 
the 
Millennium Development Goals.
The  world  we  seek  will  not  come  about  unless 
we  meet  the  challenge  of  peace  and  security,  as  well 
as  that  of  democracy,  through  a  return  to  the  values 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Too  many  wars 
8/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
efforts 
and  conflicts  continue  to  tear  humankind  apart, 
undermining  development 
in  numerous 
countries.  We  must  collectively  put  an  end  to  that 
situation by ensuring that we serve the interests of the 
people exclusively, using the tools we already have. It 
is by renewing the foundations of our solidarity that we 
will be able to counter new threats, such as terrorism, 
cross-border crime, drug and arms trafficking, human 
trafficking and piracy at sea.
The attack of a rare violence that occurred in our 
brother country, Kenya, is an example of those threats, 
and reminds us of the urgent need for collective action 
against  the  threat  of  terrorism.  We  condemn  in  the 
strongest possible terms that despicable and barbarous 
act,  which  shows  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  is 
ongoing and calls for new methods of security. In these 
times of great suffering, I would like, on behalf of my 
country  and  West  Africa,  to  convey  to  the  brotherly 
people of Kenya and its President our compassion and 
support.
International  governance  must  become  more 
democratic  and  increasingly  embody  the  universal 
consensus  and  the  values    of  our  nations.  Indeed,  the 
world must be able to recognize itself in its multilateral 
institutions in order to effectively deal with the hazards 
of this new century.
West  Africa  is  aware  of  the  threat  posed  to 
its  development,  the  deterioration  in  the  security 
environment  and  the  proliferation  of  new  factors  of 
instability. Accordingly, the Heads of State of ECOWAS 
are rightly doing everything possible, with the support 
of the international community, in a determined effort 
to  re-establish  and  maintain  peace  in  our  region.  For 
that reason, we welcomed with the utmost satisfaction 
the re-establishment of the territorial integrity of Mali 
and the successful holding of presidential elections in 
that country. 
That  success  must  not  hide  the  major  challenges 
still  facing  our  region.  I  therefore  call  upon  the 
international community to learn from the conflict in 
Mali and to support ECOWAS and the African Union in 
implementing a coherent and proactive security policy. 
Terrorism in the Sahel region is spreading to such an 
extent that entire expanses are outside the authority of 
States. The threat goes beyond the borders of the African 
continent  and  demands  a  concerted 
international 
response in keeping with the stakes involved. 
I would like to encourage donors and our traditional 
partners to provide their support to the United Nations 
and to our States within the framework of this strategy. 
We welcome the announcement of the upcoming visit 
of the Secretary-General and the President of the World 
Bank to the Sahel region in order to mobilize the entire 
international community and the financial institutions. 
If  we  want  to  end  the  cycle  of  politico-military 
crises in West Africa, Guinea-Bissau must also receive 
international  support,  so  that  we  can  build  upon  the 
current inclusive transition and enable the Government 
to  organize  democratic  elections  next  November.  For 
that  reason,  on  behalf  of  ECOWAS,  I  call  upon  the 
international community to contribute to the financing 
of general elections in that country.
The President took the Chair.
In closing, I would like to remind our Assembly that 
in order to meet the challenges of international peace 
and security, we must redouble our efforts to deliver on 
the commitments made at United Nations conferences 
and summits. The right to development must become a 
reality for all, as set out in the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution  55/2),  which  was  unanimously  adopted  in 
September  2000.  We  must  all  draw  lessons  from  the 
shortcomings of the past in order to rebuild the world 
gloriously for ourselves, our children and our children’s 
children.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Côte 
d’Ivoire for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ollanta Humala Tasso, President of 
the Republic of Peru
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of 
the Republic of Peru, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
13-48557
9/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
President  Humala  Tasso  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
am  pleased  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth session, and to welcome the fact that this lofty 
responsibility has been entrusted to a dear friend from 
Antigua and Barbuda, a member of our community of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States.  You  can  count 
on  the  firm  support  of  Peru  in  the  execution  of  your 
work.
At the outset, I wish to express our respect for and 
solidarity  with  the  people  of  Mexico  and  Pakistan, 
who are suffering as a result of natural disasters. I also 
wish to express the strong rejection and condemnation 
of the Government and people of Peru of the terrorist 
attack in Nairobi. We are relieved that this horrendous 
attack has come to an end. We express our unwavering 
solidarity with the families of the victims and with the 
Government and people of Kenya at this difficult time.
The  world  is  changing,  the  agenda  is  realigning, 
new actors are emerging and new horizons are coming 
into  view  for  the  future  of  humankind.  All  countries 
and peoples are affected by such rapid transformation. 
However, we note with concern that some fundamental 
truths have not changed. Wars continue, mostly in new 
forms,  emerging  from  the  shadows  and  exacting  an 
ever higher price from innocent populations.
Regarding  the  Syrian  tragedy,  we  express  our 
solidarity  with  the  Syrian  people.  Peru  condemns 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  as  unacceptable  in  all 
circumstances. It is an affront to humankind and a clear 
violation of international law. The Syrian people deserve 
an immediate solution to the bloody conflict ravaging 
their country. We therefore urge all parties involved to 
find a peaceful and negotiated solution that respects the 
mechanisms for the settlement of disputes. We also call 
on the Security Council to uphold its responsibility to 
maintain international peace and security.
At  the  same  time,  inequality  is  becoming  ever 
more  extreme.  The  gap  marginalizing  the  poor  from 
the benefits of progress and development widens by the 
day, robbing them of the rights enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations.
It  is  crucial  for  us  to  strengthen,  renew  and 
uphold our global commitment to developing peaceful 
relations  among  peoples  and  to  seeking  solutions 
that  reject  the  use  of  force  as  means  of  solving  our 
problems. It is therefore particularly gratifying for Peru 
and  a  source  of  genuine  pride  that  we  addressed  our 
maritime  delimitation  dispute  with  Chile  in  the  most 
constructive  and  cooperative  way  possible,  through  a 
mutual  commitment  to  abiding  by  and  enforcing  the 
judgment to be rendered by the International Court of 
Justice.  This  process  will,  I  trust,  transform  the  very 
nature of our relationship into a profitable and enduring 
coexistence for the future of our neighbouring peoples.
The rule of law and its principles in the conduct of 
international  affairs  are  therefore  indispensable  tools 
for our conduct as members of the community of peoples 
of the United Nations. However, the greatest threat to 
international peace and security falls not in the realm 
of  relations  between  States,  but  transcends  them  and 
may even use them as tools for shadowy schemes. We 
are referring to terrorism, drug trafficking, organized 
crime, mafias and corruption. All of these crimes pose 
a  genuine  threat  to  life,  progress  and  development, 
affecting primarily the poorest, which means that such 
crimes are increasingly becoming the main obstacle to 
the realization of the goals of the United Nations. 
the 
The  underlying  problems  remain  the  same.  Peru 
therefore  welcomes 
important 
theme you have chosen, Sir, for our discussions — the 
development  agenda  for  beyond  2015,  which  is  the 
deadline  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 
fundamentally 
Our  country,  happily,  has  made  progress  and 
attained some of the best benchmarks for achievement. 
Since 2000, according to United Nations Development 
Programme indicators, we achieved certain goals early, 
in particular in the fight against poverty and extreme 
poverty,  hunger,  child  mortality,  and  access  to  safe 
drinking  water.  In  2000,  more  than  half  of  Peruvians 
lived in poverty; today, only a quarter of my countrymen 
still  face  that  situation.  Our  goal  is  to  reduce  those 
living in poverty to one fifth of our population by the 
end of my term, in 2016.
to  realign 
We  have  undertaken 
the  growth 
model  by  focusing  on  inclusion.  In  those  efforts,  the 
State  is  implementing  a  number  of  connected  and 
interdependent  policies.  It  is  worth  underscoring  the 
unprecedented measure of devoting expenditure to the 
poorest  and  most  excluded  through  a  range  of  social 
programmes  aimed  at  improving  the  living  standards 
of  the  population,  enhancing  education  for  children 
and  young  people  and  promoting  gender  equality  and 
access to health services, paying particular attention to 
those in vulnerable situations.
10/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
We  are  deeply  concerned 
the 
environment is deteriorating, which is having an impact 
on our security, in particular that of the most vulnerable. 
This is happening even as we remain unable to agree on 
measures to ensure our sustainable development. 
to  note 
that 
The development agenda must also pay particular 
attention  to  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the 
protection  of  vulnerable  groups.  Our  Government 
attaches  particular 
the  rights  of 
indigenous peoples. We were the first in the world to 
legislate and regulate the right to prior consultation on 
measures directly affecting such groups in accordance 
with  Convention  No.  169  of  the  International  Labour 
Organization.
importance 
to 
We are equally concerned about the rights of migrants 
and  the  opportunities  for  integrated  development,  to 
which they contribute, fostering inter-cultural dialogue 
and  economic  exchanges  between  their  countries  of 
origin  and  their  host  countries.  In  that  vein,  we  have 
promoted the free movement of people and welcome the 
initiative of the Government of Spain to promote visa-
free  entry  for  Peruvian  nationals  into  the  Schengen 
Area .
We therefore welcome the commitments contained 
in the document “The future we want”, adopted at the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
held  last  year  (resolution  66/288,  annex).  The  process 
proposed  at 
to  establish  sustainable 
development goals should converge with the post-2015 
development  agenda,  leading  to  the  greater  capacity 
of  the  Organization  to  contribute  to  solving  urgent 
problems and dealing with development challenges. 
that  event 
Non-traditional  exports  account  for  one  third  of 
our  total  exports  —  more  than  $11  billion  dollars 
today — and service exports account for $5 billion. We 
are developing our immense potential for tourism.
The  economic  growth  in  recent  years  has  been 
extraordinary, and I must say it has been the result of 
much  effort,  rigour  and  work,  as  well  as  democratic 
continuity  and  perseverance.  Peru  has  managed  both 
to  avoid  the  worst  effects  of  global  instability  and  to 
attract levels of investment flows that are unparalleled 
in  our  country’s  history.  Our  task  is  to  strengthen 
the  foundations  that  have  enabled  such  growth,  in 
particular  by  strengthening  democracy,  institutions, 
the  rule  of  law  and  security,  building  citizenship  and 
opening spaces for participation.
We  have  the  means  to  do  that,  since  we  are  a 
country of entrepreneurs: 98 per cent of our businesses 
are  small  or  medium-sized.  They  employ  75  per  cent 
of  the  economically  active  population  and  contribute 
42  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product.  Thanks 
to  our  efforts,  Peru  is  now  considered  an  emerging, 
middle-income country, with new middle classes and a 
growing domestic consumption, and it is able to attract 
long-term investments for large projects.
Thanks  to  that  and  to  the  extent  that  we  have 
strengthened  our  national  capacities,  we  will  be 
able  to  encourage  industrial  policies  geared  towards 
changing  economic  and  social  structures.  For  us, 
industrialization is a national goal. In order to move in 
that direction, in December Lima will host the fifteenth 
General  Conference  of  the  United  Nations  Industrial 
Development Organization.
We urgently need to integrate the various separate 
efforts.  The  United  Nations  should  have  a  single, 
comprehensive development agenda. But to do so, we 
need  to  change  the  equation  and  place  the  fight  for 
equality  and  against  inequality  at  the  centre  of  our 
efforts. Let us not make growth an end in itself; rather, 
we should turn it into a tool. That is why in Peru we 
believe that the right formula is “inclusion for growth.” 
That  is  the  direction  Peru  proposes  for  the  post-2015 
agenda.
Being centrally located on the map of South America 
and having played a key role in Latin American history, 
Peru views its region from the perspective of a country 
that seeks consensus, both internal and external. Peru 
is  a  country  that  perceives  regional  integration  as  an 
effective  way  to  improve  the  present  and  future  of 
our  security  and  development.  We  Peruvians  have  an 
overriding  conviction  that,  on  our  own,  we  can  move 
forward rapidly, but together we can do that better and 
reach farther.
Peru has made a quantum leap in its economy. We 
are  currently  among  the  fastest-growing  countries. 
Responsible management of our economy has helped to 
create 800,000 new jobs so far during my Administration 
and  has  also  helped  to  reduce  unemployment  by 
7 per cent. We are gradually diversifying our economy. 
Peru  is  part  of  the  Pacific  Alliance,  along  with 
Mexico, Chile and Colombia. Together we are moving 
towards integration with a strategic projection towards 
the  Asia-Pacific  region  and  the  world.  In  that  region, 
which is home to the most dynamic economies of the 
twenty-first  century,  we  are  also  part  of  the  Asia-
13-48557
11/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  Forum.  We  hosted  the 
Leaders’ Meeting in 2008 and will host it again in 2016.
We  are  also  a  member  of  the  Union  of  South 
American  Nations,  having  recently  completed  our 
term  as  pro-tempore  president.  We  participate  in  the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
which  this  year  held  its  first  summit  with  the  Heads 
of  State  and  Government  of  the  European  Union. 
We  maintain  our  hemispheric  roots 
the 
Organization of American States, and at the subregional 
level, we are currently the pro-tempore president of the 
Andean Community. We consider all those forums to be 
complementary. We participate in them with a constant 
call for integration, dialogue and consensus.
through 
Peru  is  a  reliable  partner  committed  to  global 
causes.  Our  commitment  to  the  values   and  principles 
of  the  General  Assembly  brings  us  to  point  out  the 
need for reform. That is necessary in order to make the 
United Nations system more legitimate, representative, 
accountable and effective through the strengthening of 
its  principal  organs,  specialized  agencies  and  various 
organizations  in  the  areas  of  security,  development 
and  human  rights.  Peru  shares  the  position  held  by  a 
large number of Member States on the need to reform 
and  expand  the  Security  Council  so  as  to  reflect  the 
realities of the twenty-first century.
Our  aspirations  also  entail  more  transparency 
and accountability on the part of individual economic 
actors and greater justice in the distribution of wealth. 
With those objectives in mind, in 2014 Peru will host 
the  thirty-fifth  session  of  the  Economic  Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean and in 2016 the 
fourteenth  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development. We thereby hope to contribute so that the 
Doha Round can be resumed, in the scope of the World 
Trade Organization, with better prospects.
In  many  parts  of  our  Latin  America  and  in  Peru, 
republican States were weak from the start, concentrated 
in the capital city. Their core problem has been therefore 
that they have been unable to deal with the entire nation 
and have focused perhaps on one third of the country. 
It was impossible to build citizenship, since in practice 
there were different categories of Peruvians: those who 
received Government services and those who did not.
Our  efforts  must  be  directed  at  the  creation  of  a 
twenty-first-century  State,  a  State  that  serves  all, 
not  just  a  few.  While  this  includes  an  eminently 
ethical  component,  its  basis  is  not  restricted  to  that 
important  dimension.  It  also  has  profoundly  practical 
repercussions for society at large. We cannot forget that 
a State that does not serve the entire population breeds 
and exacerbates inequality. As long as such degrees of 
inequality exist – and I will never tire of saying this - 
any policy aimed at combating poverty will have only 
relative effects.
For that reason, my Administration has worked not 
only on economic growth but in all areas of growth. The 
history of my country has seen other periods of growth, 
but they proved to be unsustainable and benefited very 
few.  Economic  growth  is  a  means  and  not  an  end;  it 
is  an  indispensable  tool,  but  it  is  not  sufficient.  Our 
people, especially those who are most forgotten, cannot 
wait indefinitely for growth without the State actively 
promoting the extension of its benefits.
In addition, that will set in motion a virtuous circle 
in which progress for our most vulnerable countrymen 
and  the  development  of  a  population  free  of  extreme 
poverty,  with  health  care  and  education  for  all,  will 
create the conditions for even greater economic growth. 
That  is  why  we  stress  the  new  political  concept  of 
simultaneous  growth  and  redistribution.  That  is  what 
I mean when I stress the necessity of “including so as 
to grow”.
Two years ago, less than two months into my term 
as  President  of  Peru,  I  stood  before  the  Assembly  to 
emphasize  my  Government’s  commitment  to  social 
inclusion.  I  said  then  that  we  were  working  to  turn 
our economic growth into development and quality of 
life for my countrymen. I also said that we intended to 
hone our democracy so that it could solve the problems 
and  meet  the  needs  of  all.  The  country  we  want  is  a 
prosperous  one  where  all  the  Peruvians,  women  and 
men, without any distinction, can enjoy the benefits of 
growth in a dignified, safe and free manner. After two 
years in office, I reaffirm what I said; our commitment 
remains the same.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Peru for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
12/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
Address by Mr. Taur Matan Ruak, President of the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
in peace, which has been repeatedly expressed in free 
elections with a high voter turnout.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Democratic Republic of 
Timor-Leste.
Mr. Taur Matan Ruak, President of the Democratic 
Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Taur Matan Ruak, President of the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Ruak  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Allow  me  to  begin 
by  conveying  my  vigorous  condemnation  of  the 
recent  terrorist  attacks  in  Kenya,  Pakistan  and  Iraq, 
which  killed  scores  of  innocent  people.  On  behalf  of 
the Government of Timor-Leste, I extend our deepest 
condolences  to  the  bereaved  families  in  connection 
with the senseless loss of their loved ones. Terrorism is 
contrary to every civilized value we hold dear and for 
which we have fought. It must be condemned in all its 
manifestations, regardless of its motives.
the 
This  is  the  first  time  that  I  am  addressing  this 
Assembly  of  representatives  of 
international 
community  as  a  whole.  I  take  this  occasion  to  once 
again thank the United Nations for its contribution to 
the realization of the right of the people of Timor-Leste 
to decide on our own future. Timor-Leste’s experience 
shows  the  great  value  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
importance  of  negotiated  solutions,  dialogue  and 
diplomacy to international disputes.
This  is  the  first  year  without  a  United  Nations 
mission in the country since the restoration of Timor-
Leste’s  independence  11  years  ago.  Our  partnership 
with  the  United  Nations  throughout  the  last  decade 
achieved remarkable successes. The Timorese people’s 
yearning  for  stability  and  peace  was  decisive  for  the 
new circumstances, which allowed the Security Council 
to remove Timor-Leste from its agenda.
The  results  obtained  are  shared  jointly  by  the 
international  community,  through  their  solidarity  and 
pioneering  efforts  in  the  nation-building  processes 
made  in  Timor-Leste,  and  by  the  Timorese  people, 
through their maturity and firm determination to live 
I 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
the  attention  given  to  my  country,  which  was  again 
underlined  by  his  visit  to  Timor-Leste  one  year  ago, 
which greatly honoured us.
The Timorese people now hold in their own hands 
full responsibility for building their future. The country 
is facing the challenges with high hopes and optimism.
One such challenge is to focus national development 
efforts  on  diversifying  the  economy,  reducing  our 
dependency on oil and promoting inclusive development 
for all Timorese people. Another is to consolidate our 
national  institutions,  strengthening  their  technical 
capacities and ensuring the participation of the younger 
generation in managing the country.
The  older  generations  have  incumbency  and  have 
the duty to pass on to young people the wealth of values 
developed  during  the  liberation  struggle,  such  as 
respect for human dignity and dedication and service to 
the country. Those values are as necessary to building 
an equitable society and a unified country today as they 
were in the past to solidifying the unity of purpose of 
the  nation.  The  development  of  the  country  must  not 
exclude any Timorese.
The relations between Timor-Leste and the United 
Nations will continue to strengthen and will increasingly 
focus  on  assistance  in  the  area  of  human,  social  and 
economic development efforts and the strengthening of 
institutions.
The 
international 
integration  of 
the  country 
continues to evolve at a good pace, guided by the goal of 
contributing to a peaceful and stable international system 
capable  of  promoting  social  and  human  opportunities 
for  all  peoples.  We  are  participating  actively  in  the 
development  of  new  forms  of  dialogue  among  fragile 
States by establishing the Group of Seven Plus (g7+). 
That group, over which Timor-Leste currently has the 
honour of presiding, comprises 18 countries committed 
to  promoting  a  new  model  of  engagement  between 
fragile States and other international stakeholders. The 
New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States, promoted 
by the g7+, has been well received by the United Nations, 
development partners and international organizations. 
The initiatives of the g7+ and the dynamic relationship 
of  the  group  with  development  partners  contributes 
13-48557
13/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
to  the  establishment  of  more  innovative  and  effective 
international relations and cooperation.
The latest report on the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  states  that  most  countries  will  not 
achieve  all  the  MDGs,  and  that  is  particularly  true 
in  the  case  of  fragile  and  conflict-affected  States. 
The  international  community  as  a  whole  must  draw 
lessons  from  that  as  we  plan  for  the  future.  Many  of 
the  world’s  poorest  have  been  left  behind,  including 
around 1.5 billion people across the globe who live in 
areas affected by fragility and conflict. That is why the 
g7+  countries  came  together  with  the  following  vital 
message:  without  peace  there  can  be  no  development 
and  without  development  there  can  be  no  peace.  And 
to add a further dimension to that, there can be neither 
peace nor development without inclusive and responsive 
State institutions that are capable of being responsive 
and attending to people’s needs.
At the regional level, we have established friendly 
relations  with  neighbouring  countries  in  South-East 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  in  particular  with  Australia 
and  Indonesia,  our  closest  neighbours,  with  whom 
we  maintain  intense  cooperation.  The  process  of 
reconciliation  between  Timor-Leste  and  Indonesia 
and the excellent relations that our two countries have 
developed represent a model whose lessons are useful 
and relevant beyond our borders and outside our region.
Timor-Leste  has  submitted  its  application  for 
membership  in  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations.  We  have  developed  friendly  relations  with 
all  member  States  of  that  organization,  which  makes 
relevant  contributions  to  stability  in  our  region.  Our 
country  is  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
and a special observer at the Pacific Islands Forum. We 
play an active role in and are committed to multilateral 
processes,  which  are  important  for  regional  stability 
and security.
The  unanimous  election  of  Timor-Leste  to  chair 
the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the 
Pacific by the countries members of that United Nations 
body  reflects  my  country’s  harmonious  international 
integration.  As  a  member  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  we  will  have  the 
honour of chairing that organization in the period 2014-
2016. Timor-Leste believes in making its voice directly 
heard  in  every  multilateral  forum  of  relevance  to  our 
national  interest  and  will  submit  an  application  for 
membership in the Commonwealth of Nations.
Turning  our  attention  to  international  matters 
whose  urgency  especially  appeals  to  our  conscience, 
my  country  has  witnessed  with  horror  the  growing 
violence in Syria. We welcome the agreement that was 
reached  to  put  Syria’s  arsenal  of  chemical  weapons 
under  United  Nations  control  prior  to  its  destruction. 
Timor-Leste  rejects  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in 
all circumstances. We are in favour of dialogue in the 
search  for  negotiated  solutions,  with  the  involvement 
of the United Nations. Only negotiation can help save 
lives and alleviate the high toll that the Syrian people 
are paying in human lives and social upheaval, which 
has resulted in millions of internally displaced persons 
and refugees.
In Timor-Leste, we know only too well the losses 
and  traumas  of  war.  We  are  committed  to  preventing 
violence in all its forms. Earlier this month, our Prime 
Minister,  Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana  Gusmão,  joined  the 
Champions initiative to end sexual violence in conflict, 
supporting  the  corresponding  action  launched  by  the 
United Nations.
In  a  world  undergoing  a  rapid  transition  towards 
globalization,  the  Security  Council  must  upgrade 
its  ability  to  effectively  respond  and  must  adjust  its 
composition to better reflect the realities of the twenty-
first century. New Powers, including India, Indonesia 
and Brazil, among others, must be granted permanent 
member  status  in  the  Security  Council.  At  the  same 
time,  my  country  is  aware  of  the  need  for  a  better 
representation  of  medium-sized  and  small  countries 
with relevant contributions to stability and peace. In that 
spirit, Timor-Leste supports New Zealand’s candidacy 
for  a  non-permanent  seat  at  the  Security  Council  for 
the 2015-2016 term. New Zealand has actively worked 
with  us  for  peace  and  security  in  Timor-Leste,  and 
we  believe  it  will  both  enhance  the  representation  of 
small States and be a constructive bridge-builder at the 
Council.
On  30  August,  Timor-Leste  celebrated 
the 
fourteenth  anniversary  of  the  referendum  supervised 
by  the  United  Nations  that  allowed  the  Timorese 
people  to  realize  their  right  to  self-determination  and 
independence. In contrast, there are peoples who, after 
decades,  continue  to  patiently  wait  for  the  realization 
of that right. Such is the case of the Sahrawi people. A 
stable  and  lasting  solution  for  Western  Sahara  cannot 
exist without the democratic expression of the will of 
its people.
14/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
We  commend  the  decision  of  the  leaders  of 
the  State  of  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  to 
resume  direct  talks  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
States  Government.  Timor-Leste  supports  the  right 
of  the  peoples  of  Palestine  and  Israel  to  live  side  by 
side in peace, with dignity and in safety. We hope that 
the peace talks already initiated may at last lead to a 
solution  with  two  sovereign  States  coexisting  in  an 
environment of mutual respect and rejecting extremism 
and violence. We condemn the building of settlements 
in the occupied territories and all unilateral initiatives 
contrary to resolutions of the United Nations.
We believe in dialogue, openness and inclusion as 
a  means  of  strengthening  confidence  in  international 
relations. Therefore, we call for an end to the embargo 
against the Republic of Cuba, an embargo that does not 
take into account the reality of today, of the country or 
of the Cuban people. We also call on President Barack 
Obama to act in accordance with his powers and release 
the four Cuban citizens, from an initial group of five, 
who have been incarcerated for over a decade in North 
American prisons.
Countries 
Portuguese-speaking 
Allow me now to address the situation in Guinea-
Bissau, a sister nation to Timor-Leste in the Community 
of 
currently 
experiencing an easing of political and social tensions, 
which  we  hope  will  lead  to  the  re-establishment  of 
institutional normalcy and democracy. We welcome the 
efforts of the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding 
Office  in  Guinea-Bissau,  which  were  led  by  my 
predecessor as Head of State of Timor-Leste, Mr. José 
Manuel  Ramos-Horta.  His  initiatives  have  helped  to 
enhance the prestige of the United Nations among the 
people of Guinea-Bissau and to create an environment 
of  greater  trust  and  dialogue  in  the  country.  The 
problems  of  Guinea-Bissau  can  be  solved.  Timor-
Leste will continue to support the patient efforts of the 
Guinean people and the international community aimed 
at  intensifying  dialogue  and  reconciliation  among  the 
people  of  Guinea-Bissau  and  promoting  a  democratic 
solution within an appropriate time frame. 
Among 
the  critical  global  challenges  facing 
humankind  today,  I  want  to  highlight  the  severity  of 
malnutrition,  which  affects  hundreds  of  millions  of 
people  worldwide.  The  dual  challenges  of  improving 
food  security  and 
reducing  malnutrition  on  a 
global  scale  require  a  renewed  boost  from  all  of  us, 
including  development  partner  countries.  Without 
new  coordinated  initiatives  and  greater  investment  to 
promote improving food security and the fight against 
malnutrition,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  make  rapid 
and  sure  progress  towards  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. The new objectives are defined in 
the post-2015 development agenda, due to be launched 
by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Timor-Leste  is  following,  with  great  interest, 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  process  and  was 
honoured  by  the  invitation  to  Dr.  Emilia  Pires,  our 
Minister  of  Finance,  to  participate  in  the  High-level 
Panel that drafted a proposal for the agenda, following a 
request by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The past experience of the Timorese people and the 
country’s liberation struggle, in which we were engaged 
for  24  years,  have  demonstrated  that  only  tolerance, 
dialogue  and  mutual  respect,  which  the  Timorese 
resistance consistently showed and I have consistently 
supported  —  in  short,  veneration  for  the  dignity  of 
people  —  will  allow  us  to  reach  durable  solutions  to 
disputes between countries.
In a world where challenges are rapidly becoming 
globalized, requiring concerted and effective responses, 
the  actions  of  the  United  Nations  are  more  than  ever 
essential  for  the  stability  of  international  relations. 
Timor-Leste  will  continue  to  show  its  commitment 
to  the  United  Nations,  so  that  the  Organization  may 
better respond to the desires of Member States and the 
challenges  they  face,  and  to  unhesitatingly  assert  the 
values of peace and mutual respect. I wish the Assembly 
the best of luck in its work. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Democratic Republic 
of Timor-Leste for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Taur Matan Ruak, President of the Democratic 
Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Macky Sall, President of the 
Republic of Senegal
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Senegal. 
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
13-48557
15/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
By 
its  debate  on 
Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic 
of Senegal, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Sall (spoke in French): On behalf of the 
Senegalese delegation, I would like to wish you, Sir, all 
the best as President at the sixty-eighth session of the 
General Assembly. 
focusing 
the  post-2015 
development agenda, the General Assembly reminds us 
that  there  is  not  much  time  left  before  attainment  of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is finally 
evaluated.  Despite  progress  after  more  than  a  decade 
of  implementing  the  MDGs,  the  magnitude  of  the 
challenges is still overwhelming. In terms of access to 
food, housing, education and healthcare, the daily lives of 
nearly one billion people have barely improved. Women 
continue to die in childbirth. Inequalities persist within 
and between countries. The economic crisis continues 
and environmental degradation is worsening. We need 
to take concrete and resolute actions to transform our 
collective ambitions into reality. 
In 
the  quest  for  sustainable  development,  a 
conference  on  climate  change  in  2015  in  Paris  will 
provides us with another opportunity to pull ourselves 
together,  by  reversing  the  negative  effects  of  climate 
change on Earth, our common habitat.
the 
than 
of 
challenges 
Addressing 
sustainable 
development  and  building  the  future  we  want,  in 
the  spirit  of  the  Rio+20  Conference,  require  a  more 
sustained  effort 
the  fight  against  poverty. 
We  should  invest  more  in  education,  as  the  Global 
Partnership  for  Education  expects  of  us.  We  need  to 
modernize  agriculture,  make  electricity  accessible  to 
everybody and develop infrastructure to foster trade and 
investment. These are the pillars that underpin growth 
and prosperity. It is precisely this vision that the New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) seeks 
to  promote  through  its  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa (PIDA).
As  part  of  that  programme,  51  priority  projects 
have  been  identified  and  established  throughout  the 
continent. Overall, they will cost $68 billion between 
2012 and 2020. As Chairperson of NEPAD’s Orientation 
Committee, I am pleased with the consensus that our 
partners have built around PIDA, namely, the Group of 
Twenty and the Group of Eight (G-8) and with Brazil, 
Russia, India and China.
I  also  welcome  the  very  strong  signal  which  the 
G-8, meeting in June in Lough Erne, sent concerning 
the need for a concerted campaign against tax evasion 
and other fraudulent practices affecting our economies. 
We must now push ahead and launch the mechanisms 
we  have  agreed  on  for  improving  transparency  in 
international 
the  mining 
industry. This is the best way to support Africa’s efforts 
to mobilize domestic resources in order to finance its 
development.
transactions, 
including 
for 
the 
Similarly,  Senegal  calls 
reform  of 
international  economic  and  financial  governance, 
notably  the  terms  for  accessing  credit  and  obtaining 
financing 
for  economic  and  social  development 
projects.  Let  us  not  pave  the  road  to  the  future  with 
the instruments of the past. While plummeting official 
development assistance no longer meets Africa’s needs, 
the  trend  towards  progress  should  lead  us  to  explore 
other  innovative  financing  mechanisms  available  to 
our  countries.  Africa  is  no  longer  a  zone  of  turmoil 
and humanitarian emergencies. Africa has become an 
emerging  centre  of  opportunities  and  investments  for 
innovative and mutually beneficial partnerships.
Mr.  Maelanga  (Solomon  Islands),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The  world  has  changed;  Africa  has  also  changed. 
Let us therefore change our paradigms and visions; let 
us change the way we look at the continent. 
Change is also needed for the reform of the Security 
Council.  The  Council’s  legitimacy  is  not  derived 
only from its status as the guarantor of the collective 
security system; it is also and especially derived from 
the  representativeness  that  justifies  its  action  in  the 
name of and on behalf of all Member States.
This  time  last  year,  Mali  was  doubly  affected  by 
a  coup  and  a  terrorist  attack  reminiscent  of  a  bygone 
age.  They  were  a  source  of  great  concern  for  us. 
Senegal,  which  remains  active  within  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Mali,  welcomes  the  restoration  of  the  territorial 
integrity  and  constitutional  legality  of  Mali.  We 
congratulate  the  people  of  Mali  and  their  political 
leaders  for  that  happy  outcome.  We  strongly  support 
the  national  reconciliation  efforts  being  made  by  the 
Government in the spirit of the Ouagadougou Political 
Agreement.
Today,  while 
the  armed  groups  have  been 
defeated,  the  terrorist  threat  to  the  Sahel  has  not  yet 
been  definitively  ended.  It  is  only  through  ongoing, 
coordinated  and  sufficiently  deterrent  action  that  we 
16/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
will be able to address the emerging security challenges 
on the African continent. It is urgent to make operational 
the  African  rapid  response  force,  proposed  at  the  last 
African Union summit.
is  supporting 
In  Guinea-Bissau,  Senegal 
the 
Government’s  efforts  to  successfully  carry  out  the 
electoral  process.  We  urge  our  partner  countries  and 
institutions  to  pursue  their  support  for  the  definitive 
resolution  of  the  Guinea-Bissau  crisis  through  the 
country’s  economic  recovery,  the  crucial  reform  of 
the  defence  and  security  sector,  and  the  fight  against 
illicit drug trafficking. We hope that similar attention 
will be paid to the Central African Republic and to the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  the  legitimate 
aspiration  to  peace,  stability  and  the  preservation 
of  territorial  integrity.  Throughout  Africa,  we  are 
committed to upholding respect for the African Union 
principles  against  anti-constitutional  changes  of 
Government, regardless of the process used.
In regard to the Middle East, Senegal expresses its 
deep  concern  over  the  untold  suffering  of  the  Syrian 
population. We urge the Syrian Government to exercise 
restraint  and  to  comply  with  the  Chemical  Weapons 
Convention in the control and destruction of its arsenal 
of chemical weapons.
In  its  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People,  Senegal  is  following  the  resumption  of  the 
Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. It is a courageous 
and  responsible  act  because  it  translates  the  vision  of 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  within  secure 
and  internationally  recognized  borders.  We  therefore 
call for a halt to acts likely to affect that perspective, 
notably  the  ongoing  establishment  of  settlements  on 
Palestinian land by the Israeli Government.
On  24  September,  Senegal  joined  other  countries 
in  launching  the  international  campaign  for  the  fight 
against  sexual  violence  in  armed  conflict.  Sexual 
violence in conflict is an act of unbearable cruelty for 
the  victims  and  their  families.  It  is  a  war  crime  and 
a  serious  violation  of  human  dignity  and  universal 
conscience.  In  the  name  of  our  common  humanity,  it 
is  time  to  act  to  prevent  and  stop  such  horrors.  It  is 
time to act so that victims will no longer feel alone in 
their suffering, which destroys the very foundations of 
society.  It  is  time  to  act  so  that  the  perpetrators  and 
their  accomplices  in  those  crimes  are  tracked  down 
everywhere,  prosecuted  and  punished  in  a  manner 
commensurate with the atrocities of their crimes.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Senegal for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Macky  Sall,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange, 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French): 
When  the  nations  of  the  world  come  together  in  the 
General Assembly to consider the major issues facing 
humankind, it is an honour and a privilege to take the 
floor  and  to  express  the  viewpoint  of  one’s  country. 
Animated  by  those  twin  sentiments,  on  behalf  of  the 
Congolese people I address the Assembly and through 
it the community of nations as a whole.
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  express  my  most  sincere 
congratulations  to  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at the sixty-eighth 
session. I also congratulate the members of his Bureau. 
I further wish to hail his predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, 
for the outststanding way in which he fulfilled his term 
as  President.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  well-deserved 
tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  all  his 
initiatives for peace and security throughout the world 
and  for  his  personal  involvement  in  seeking  ways 
and  means  to  bring  peace  and  stability  to  the  eastern 
part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the 
entire Great Lakes region. His efforts are all the more 
commendable given the fact that the enemies of peace 
are  always  on  the  lookout,  ready  to  strike  anyone, 
anytime and anywhere, as we have unfortunately been 
recently  reminded  by  the  terrorist  attack  that  brought 
such  tragedy  to  the  Republic  of  Kenya.  On  behalf  of 
the Congolese Government and people and on my own 
13-48557
17/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
behalf, I condemn that despicable act. We express our 
condolences  and  solidarity  with  the  brotherly  people 
and leaders of Kenya.
We welcome the President’s choice of theme for this 
general  debate,  namely,  “The  post-2015  development 
agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  He  mentioned  the  equally 
relevant need to draw lessons from the implementation 
of the Millennium Development Goals, consider new and 
emerging  development  challenges,  create  measurable 
indicators,  establish  new  types  of  partnership  and 
better integrate the economic, social and environmental 
aspects of sustainable development. The importance of 
the  theme  chosen  and  the  relevance  of  the  indicators 
that  accompany  it  are  undeniable.  Our  thinking  must 
be even more rigorous, as we witness several troubling 
elements in the international environment.
With  respect  to  organizing  for  the  post-2015 
period,  the  international  community  is  increasingly 
witnessing  non-compliance  on  the  part  of  certain 
Members  with  the  basic  principles  of  international 
relations, persistent selfishness on the part of States and 
convulsions in the global economy. The consequences 
are  manifold.  They  range  from  threats  to  peace  to 
deadly conflicts and from globalization driven mainly 
by  the  unbridled  pursuit  of  profit  to  the  aggravation 
of  poverty.  That  comes  in  addition  to  the  food  crisis, 
famines,  diseases  —  including  endemic  diseases  that 
had once disappeared and are now reappearing — and 
environmental destruction, which is the main cause of 
climate change and its deplorable effects.
To  remedy  the  situation,  the  General  Assembly 
has  established  several  bodies,  and  I  welcome  their 
creation:  the  Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable 
Development Goals, the Intergovernmental Committee 
of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development  Financing 
and  the  high-level  political  forum  to  promote  the 
implementation of recommendations and decisions on 
sustainable development. My hope is that that process 
will  be  consistent  with  the  ongoing  transformation 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and,  beyond 
that,  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system,  in  order  to 
better  integrate  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
the  economic,  social  and 
development,  namely, 
environmental  dimensions, 
the  new  post-2015 
agenda.
in 
The  new  programme  that  we  are  called  upon  to 
create must be universal, ambitious and able to meet the 
huge challenges facing humankind. It must bring about 
positive  change,  based  on  the  principle  of  common 
but differentiated responsibilities. In that respect, it is 
important to utilize the contribution of women, youth 
and civil society in both the design and the execution 
of  the  agenda.  We  should  also  draw  lessons  from  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
With regard to climate change as an important issue 
to  resolve  in  the  post-2015  period,  allow  me  to  recall 
that,  under  the  final  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288), States pledged to abandon unsustainable long-
term  patterns  of  consumption  and  adopt  sustainable 
ways  of  managing  natural  resources  as  the  basis  for 
economic and social development and the very future 
of humankind. Climate change is a threat to humankind 
and 
for 
vulnerable  populations  and  especially  those  from  the 
African continent and island countries. Seeking to limit 
its impact is, for each of our countries, a responsibility 
that we must shoulder as a duty towards our people, a 
service  to  the  human  race  and  an  act  of  international 
solidarity.
fundamental  human 
rights,  particularly 
Recognizing  that  fact,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  Congo,  a  country  of  exceptional  biodiversity,  has 
always  sought  to  manage  its  natural  resources  with  a 
view to the future. The management policy for of our 
forest  ecosystems  is  aimed  at  that.  The  Grand  Inga 
project  has  also  been  designed  along  those  lines.  We 
should  emphasize,  in  fact,  that  that  project  should 
eventually  enable  us  to  produce  enough  electricity  to 
meet the energy needs of nearly half of Africa. It will 
also be clean and renewable energy, consistent with the 
requirements of sustainable development.
Today we must begin to set the stage for the post-
2015  period.  In  that  context,  I  express  the  hope  that 
proposals will be made during this session to translate 
into reality our common desire to promote the economic, 
social  and  environmental  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development.  Such  proposals  should  cover  our  local, 
national and regional development programmes. They 
should  also  encourage  bold  international  cooperation 
and reflect the will of each of our States to contribute 
to international peace and security.
Without  peace,  no  progress  is  possible.  Without 
the minimum conditions for the safety of persons and 
property, all development is hypothetical. That is all the 
more  unacceptable  since  a  breach  of  the  peace  is  the 
result  of  aggression.  That  is  the  sad  recent  history  of 
my country.
18/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
It  is  also  important  to  remember  other  parallel 
truths that are often overlooked or hidden. Because we 
acted in solidarity by welcoming Rwandan refugees to 
our  territory,  the  Congolese  population  in  the  eastern 
part  of  the  country  has  been  deprived  of  peace  —  a 
fundamental right of all persons — and they continue 
to  count  their  dead.  The  most  recent  episode  of  the 
unending  tragedy  occurred  when  bombs  crushed  the 
women and children of Goma last July. It was truly a 
tragedy unequalled in history and which cannot leave 
any heart untouched. It is time to ask ourselves what will 
remain of international humanitarian law if welcoming 
refugees  in  distress,  which  is  a  humanitarian  act  par 
excellence,  becomes  sufficient  reason  to  justify  the 
eruption of war. 
the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  following  definitive  actions: 
The  recent  bombing  of  Goma  was  all 
the 
more  reprehensible  as  it  was  perpetrated  while  the 
Government  of 
the 
Congo was in the process of implementing the Peace, 
Security and Cooperation Framework of Addis Ababa, 
including  talks  with  the  armed  group  responsible  for 
the  bombings.  Nevertheless,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  my 
country’s  determination  to  comply  with  all  of  the 
commitments contained in the Framework agreement. 
From that perspective, my Government has already 
undertaken 
the 
establishment of the National Follow-up Mechanism to 
implement the commitments of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo;  the  acceleration  of  security  sector 
reform, especially the army, police and justice sectors; 
further  progress  in  decentralization,  by  adopting  the 
necessary  implementation  laws;  the  reform  of  public 
finance  management;  and  the  restructuring  of  the 
Independent  National  Election  Commission.  This  last 
was immediately implemented in order to prioritize the 
organization of local, municipal, provincial, senatorial 
and provincial governor elections. A national dialogue 
has been organized, starting on 7 September, with the 
goal of seeking national cohesion to better respond to 
all of the challenges facing the country.
Beyond those efforts on the part of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the dawn of sustainable peace 
in the region depends on two main conditions — ending 
impunity in all its aspects, and the diligent execution 
of  their  commitments  by  the  other  signatories  of  the 
Framework  agreement.  Therefore,  my  country  again 
urgently  appeals  to  the  Organization  to  deal  with  all 
Member  States  with  equal  rigour  and  to  require  that 
each one strictly respect the principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is clear that denouncing violations 
of those principles is a good thing, but punishing those 
who violate the principles is preferable by far, especially 
when those violations are ongoing and recurrent.
I cannot conclude my remarks without expressing 
my  thanks  to  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community, the International Conference on the Great 
Lakes  Region,  the  African  Union  and  the  European 
Union  for  their  essential  role  in  maintaining  peace  in 
our region. I also thank the United Nations, in particular 
the members of the Security Council, and all of those 
States that have, for many years, remained at our side 
in  order  to  ensure  peace  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo. We are all the more thankful to them, as 
they have participated in one of the breakthroughs of 
the post-2015 development agenda aimed at ensuring a 
better world for all.
We must be convinced that beyond our differences 
lies  a  common  future.  Our  diversity  must  be  seen  as 
the essential source of wealth that it is. It is high time 
that  we,  the  international  community,  find  the  ways 
and  means  to  enable  millions  of  people  to  not  simply 
live, but to live a life of dignity in a world where peace, 
security and justice are a reality for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President 
of the Transition of the Republic of Madagascar
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Transition of the 
Republic of Madagascar.
Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
Transition  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina, 
President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Madagascar, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Rajoelina (spoke in French): It is often 
said that things always come in threes. Indeed, this is 
the  Transition  of 
13-48557
19/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
the third time that I have had the privilege to address 
the  Assembly  as  President  of  the  Transition  of  the 
Republic of Madagascar. Here we are again, convening 
as  we  do  every  year  for  the  General  Assembly.  All 
the  leaders  of  the  planet  meet  regularly  to  debate, 
exchange views and share their experiences within the 
framework  of  a  process  of  consultations  that  belongs 
to a long collective march towards peace, security and 
sustainable planetary development. But each year, new, 
ever more violent and more lethal conflicts are waged, 
requiring  that  we  respond  with  equal  intensity.  Shall 
we  limit  ourselves  to  simply  speaking  about  conflict 
resolution, or shall we to challenge ourselves, analyse 
the underlying causes and take the necessary measures 
to preserve stability in the world? 
As I add my voice to those who have spoken before 
me,  I  warmly  congratulate  the  President  on  the  votes 
that  he  won  in  support  of  his  candidacy.  Madagascar 
will endeavour to provide him its sincere support and 
cooperation.
Regrettably,  over  recent  decades,  when  we  speak 
of  Africa,  we  generally  see  States  that  are  exposed 
to  permanent  violence  and  the  progressive  loss  of 
democracy,  States  where  wars,  conflicts  and  crises 
continually  break  out  and  there  is  more  division  than 
consensus.  According  to  Ambassador  Jeremić,  who 
presided  at  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  humankind  is  facing  an  existential  crisis, 
with  symptoms  such  as  economic  instability,  social 
inequalities and environmental degradation. 
For my part, I would add that humankind may be 
losing its forward momentum but that it is not giving 
up. Yes, the news delivered by the media every day is 
extremely worrying throughout the world. Whether the 
country is developed, emerging or poor, no segment of 
society escapes deterioration of various kinds, including 
poor employment conditions, unemployment, declining 
purchasing  power,  the  total  absence  of  any  income  at 
all, lack of access to basic necessities in food, clothing, 
health  care  and  education,  and,  in  addition,  poverty, 
deprivation  and  indigence.  Those  are  all  factors  that 
are the nurturing ground for intolerance, confrontation 
and  conflict,  thereby  helping  to  give  rise  to  global 
insecurity. I refer here particularly to recent events in 
Kenya, Iraq, Pakistan and Syria, to name just a few. We 
fully share in the pain and sorrow of the families of the 
victims. 
Some  800  days  from  the  deadline  of  2015,  like 
most  African  States  and  many  developing  countries, 
Madagascar  is  finding  it  difficult  to  attain  all  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  despite  the  efforts 
everyone  has  made.  Given  that  situation,  I  have  to 
wonder what sort of contribution we, the leaders of our 
nations, can make individually to that collective effort, 
with a view to finding ways of improving the daily lives 
of those who have put their trust in us and placed their 
destiny in our hands.
In  his  statement  yesterday 
(see  A/68/PV.5), 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon stressed the fact that, 
in  streets  and  squares  across  the  world,  people  are 
pressing  those  in  power.  They  want  world  leaders  to 
listen. They want to know that we are doing everything 
we can to secure a life of dignity for all. The popular 
unrest  in  the  context  of  the  Arab  Spring  and  the 
movements of the outraged exemplify this observation 
and reflect a legitimate aspiration. I fully support the 
Secretary-General’s remarks and call upon all of us to 
ensure that we clearly understand the demands of the 
demonstrators. 
Madagascar  would  also  have  wished  to  benefit 
from  such  understanding  when  the  Malagasy  people 
rose up against an unpopular regime to demand a better 
life through the establishment of genuine change. But 
that  was  not  the  case.  On  the  contrary,  Madagascar 
encountered misunderstanding and the inflexibility of 
an international community operating at various speeds, 
not to mention the application of dogmatic texts, even 
though  popular  uprisings  elsewhere,  in  very  similar 
circumstances,  had  been  viewed  sympathetically  and 
with concern.
Efforts  must  therefore  now  be  made  to  end  the 
unequal  treatment  of  countries  in  crisis.  We  must 
become  aware  of  popular  aspirations  and  realities  on 
the  ground  so  as  not  to  take  the  wrong  decision.  If  it 
is valid elsewhere, surely it is also valid in the case of 
Madagascar? 
All  the  conditions  were  in  place  in  Madagascar. 
The  danger  of  a  social  explosion  and  a  fratricidal 
conflict  was  omnipresent,  but  fortunately  —  unlike 
some countries that continue to experience unrest and 
even  armed  violence,  and  despite  all  the  economic 
and social restrictions and the absence of support and 
assistance  from  the  international  community  from 
which Madagascar has suffered in recent years — the 
people of Madagascar did not fall into the trap of internal 
conflict, which some would have taken advantage of.
20/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
It  is  with  great  national  pride  that  I  announce 
from  this  rostrum  that  Madagascar  was  able  to  avoid 
civil  war.  That  required  considerable  sacrifice,  self-
denial  and  humility,  but  we  came  through  thanks 
to  our  patriotism.  I  reiterate  the  fact  that  despite  our 
disagreements and our different points of view, we have 
reached a settlement of our conflict using all available 
negotiation methods. I would like to solemnly thank the 
Malagasy people, who are a peaceful people and aspire 
to  peace  and  whose  courage  and  patience  have  been 
unmatched  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  our  political 
crisis. 
The  Malagasy  people  deserve  a  better  future. 
Citizens  will  be  able  to  freely  express  their  choices 
on  their  future  leader  through  the  ballot  box  at  the 
upcoming  presidential  elections,  scheduled  to  take 
place on 25 October this year, for which the electoral 
campaign began yesterday.
(SADC), 
Madagascar  is  now  starting  a  new  phase  in  its 
history.  I  would  like  to  warmly  thank  all  those  who, 
throughout  the  process  of  Madagascar’s  emergence 
from  its  crisis,  supported  and  assisted  us  during  the 
transition  period,  in  particular,  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community 
the  various 
presidents of the SADC Troika, the African Union, the 
European Union, the United Nations, the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation, the International Organization 
of la Francophonie, and all friendly countries without 
exception,  without  forgetting  those  who  have  already 
demonstrated their willingness to provide international 
observers for the elections. At the same time, I would 
like to renew my appeal to the entire General Assembly 
to join the ranks of our partners.
We are at a crossroads. The people expect specific 
and  tangible  results.  The  question  is,  do  we  have  the 
courage and the wisdom to sacrifice ourselves for the 
well-being of our people and to avoid conflict and civil 
war, so that innocent people do not lose their lives, so 
that those who are in power no longer use weapons and 
so that no one resorts to violence? 
As  a  leader,  I  realize  that  the  exercise  of  power 
requires  an  awareness  of  our  humanity  and  our 
fallibility. That is the message that Madagascar would 
like  convey  as  its  contribution  to  this  general  debate 
today.  The  world  is  changing  very  quickly,  a  new 
generation is rising to replace the old one, and leaders 
have  the  duty  to  meet  the  expectations  of  our  people 
and to find a solution to ensure their well-being.
In my case, I did everything I could to overcome 
the political crisis in Madagascar and maintain national 
unity  and  the  best  interests  of  the  Malagasy  people. 
I  also  decided  that  I  will  not  be  a  candidate  in  the 
upcoming presidential elections. It is on that note, and 
with  the  well-known  words  of  American  theologian 
and writer James Freeman Clarke, that I would like to 
conclude:  “A  politician  thinks  of  the  next  election.  A 
statesman, of the next generation.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Transition 
of the Republic of Madagascar for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
Transition  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Blaise Compaoré, President of 
Burkina Faso
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Burkina Faso.
Mr. Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Blaise Compaoré, President 
of  Burkina  Faso,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
terrorism, 
cross-border 
crime 
(spoke 
President  Campaoré 
in  French): 
Sociopolitical crises, armed conflicts, the degradation 
of  ecosystems,  pandemics  like  HIV/AIDS,  religious 
extremism, 
and 
development problems are today the vital questions that 
call  upon  the  conscience  of  individuals,  summoning 
their  responsibility  for  building  the  present  and  the 
future.  I  am  convinced  of  the  need  to  enhance  our 
spirit  of  sharing  and  solidarity  in  order  to  meet  the 
challenges  of  promoting  peace,  stability  and  security 
and to provide humankind with all the tools needed for 
better mastery of its evolution.
Before continuing, I would like to congratulate the 
President  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. In addition, I would 
like to express our recognition for the remarkable way 
in  which  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  presided 
over  the  work  of  the  sixty-seventh  session.  Allow 
me  also  to  repeat  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
13-48557
21/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
Ki-moon, the expression of the esteem and recognition 
of the Government of Burkina Faso for his availability 
and staunch commitment to peace and development. 
is 
taking  place 
The  current  session 
in  an 
international  context  characterized  by 
relentless 
economic  difficulties  and  growing  threats  to  peace 
and security on a global scale. I take this opportunity 
to express to the people of Kenya the compassion and 
solidarity  of  the  people  of  Burkina  Faso  following 
the  terrorist  attacks  that  were  recently  perpetrated  in 
Nairobi.
The West African subregion continues to be marked 
by  the  stigma  of  multidimensional  crises  that  have 
taken place over the past two decades. Our subregion, 
and particularly the Sahelo-Saharan zone, has became a 
hideout for drug traffickers and terrorists whose desire 
to destabilize the region represents a real threat to the 
peace and security of our States.
I would like to welcome the gradual improvement of 
the situation in Mali since the deployment of the United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in Mali and the holding of presidential elections, 
which supports the re-established constitutional order. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate my 
thanks to all those players who have helped to resolve 
the crisis in Mali. To the Malian authorities and people, 
I  express  my  warmest  congratulations  on  the  success 
of the recent presidential elections. The implementation 
of the United Nations integrated strategy for the Sahel 
will contribute, I am convinced, to enhancing stability 
in that country and in the entire Sahelo-Saharan region. 
Burkina Faso is determined to play a role alongside the 
international  community  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
that strategy.
Dialogue 
to  ensure 
understanding among and within peoples. Furthermore, 
the Government of Burkina Faso supports strengthening 
social  cohesion,  broadening  spaces  for  freedom  and 
dialogue, and seeking together solutions to conflicts. It 
is in that spirit that my country has been participating 
for two decades in peacekeeping operations conducted 
by  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  with 
contingents  of  about  2,000  men  and  women  who  are 
deployed in various theatres of operation. I pay tribute 
to the efforts of all those who work tirelessly to build a 
world of peace and freedom. 
favoured  way 
the 
is 
Beyond the resolution of sociopolitical and military 
crises in West Africa, Burkina Faso strongly supports 
the  initiatives  of  the  international  community  that 
seek to restore lasting stability in the Central African 
Republic,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  the 
Congo, the Great Lakes region, Somalia and the Sudan.
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  my  country 
supports  the  search  for  a  political  solution  acceptable 
to all parties and reaffirms its support to the Moroccan 
initiative  for  an  autonomous  status  for  the  Saharan 
region as a credible and realistic alternative in resolving 
that dispute.
Beyond the African continent, the situation in the 
Syrian Arab Republic urgently requires an immediate 
end  to  the  hostilities  and  a  search  for  political 
solutions  to  the  crisis.  Therefore  we  encourage  the 
implementation of the American-Russian agreement of 
14  September  aimed  at  control  and  dismantlement  of 
chemical weapons stockpiles. 
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East, 
we  welcome  the  relaunching  of  direct  negotiations 
between  Israel  and  Palestine  and  strongly  encourage 
the different parties to work towards a peaceful solution 
to  the  conflict  in  order  to  reach  a  fair  and  equitable 
solution based on the recognition of a Palestinian State 
living in perfect harmony with Israel.
The  climate  of  dialogue  and  détente 
that 
characterizes relations between the Republic of China 
on Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China should 
be  welcomed  and  encouraged.  In  that  spirit,  we  must 
welcome  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  in  the 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies,  particularly  the 
International Civil Aviation Organization and the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
We  also  welcome  Taiwan’s  incalculable  contribution 
in support of the achievement by developing countries 
such as Burkina Faso of the Millennium Development 
Goals.
to 
the  uncertainties  created  by 
Peace  in  Africa  requires  pertinant  socioeconomic 
to  generate  effective 
development  programmes 
responses 
the 
international  economic  situation  and  to  strengthen 
trust between the people and the leaders. A landlocked 
country  of  the  Sahel  without  great  natural  resources, 
Burkina  Faso  is  committed  to  implementing  strong 
policies  in  the  context  of  its  Strategy  of  Accelerated 
Growth and Sustainable Development, with a view to 
22/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
promoting development and to significantly improving 
in the quality of life of the people of Burkina Faso. 
As  we  approach  the  deadline  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  theme  of  the 
current  session,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting the stage”, raises in a pertinant way the issue of 
the dialectical relationship between development, peace 
and  security.  It  therefore  offers  us  an  opportunity  to 
focus our thinking on a new vision in order to achieve 
comprehensive progress, based on strong international 
solidarity, 
towards  sustainable  development.  That 
is  why  it  is  important  that  we  redouble  our  efforts 
to  regulate  environmental  issues  on  the  basis  of 
the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex), 
held in 2012 in Rio de Janeiro.
rigorously  apply 
Peace  and  stability  appear  as  still-distant  goals, 
given  the  number  of  centres  of  conflict  throughout 
the  world.  That  situation  demands  that  we  further 
strengthen  multilateralism, 
the 
principles enshrined in the Charter of our Organization, 
strengthen the instruments for promoting those ideals 
and carry out the reform of United Nations bodies, in 
particular the Security Council. It is my hope that the 
General Assembly’s work at this session will contribute 
to achieving those noble objectives for a more fulfilled 
and united humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Burkina 
Faso for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic  
of Ethiopia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic 
of  Ethiopia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Dessalegn (Ethiopia): It is with great pleasure 
that I congratulate the President on his election to his 
high  office  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at 
its sixty-eighth session, which is being held under the 
theme: “The post-2015 development agenda: setting the 
stage”. I wish to assure the President of the full support 
and  cooperation  of  my  delegation  in  the  successful 
discharge  of  his  heavy  responsibilities.  I  would  also 
like to commend his predecessor for the able leadership 
he demonstrated during the previous session.
Let me begin by condemning the terrorist attacks in 
Kenya that claimed the lives of innocent civilians and 
left many more injured. I wish to express my heartfelt 
condolences to the people and Government of Kenya, 
as well as to the families of the victims of that callous 
attack. That incident once again demonstrates the need 
for us to renew our commitment to fight terrorism and 
extremism in all its forms and manifestations.
I  am  addressing  the  Assembly  today  not  only  on 
behalf of my country but also as the representative of 
the African Union (AU), which Ethiopia has the honour 
of chairing this year. It is a welcome coincidence that 
Ethiopia, which played host to the founding Conference 
of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), 50 years 
ago,  has  assumed  the  rotating  chairpersonship  of 
that  premier  continental  organization  at  a  time  when 
its  golden  jubilee  is  being  celebrated.  We  were  very 
pleased  to  host  the  Special  Summit  of  African  Heads 
of  State  and  Government,  which  marked  the  OAU/
AU  jubilee  on  25  May,  and  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  my  heartfelt  gratitude  to  all 
those who sent delegations to Addis Ababa to take part 
in  the  celebration  and  conveyed  messages  of  support 
and solidarity to the African Union. Since the fiftieth 
anniversary  will  be  a  year-long  event,  we  would  like 
to continue to mark the historic milestone during this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  by  reflecting  on  the 
relations  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  then 
Organization  of  African  Union  and  today’s  African 
Union over the past half-century.
When  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  was 
signed  in  1945,  much  of  Africa  was  under  the  yoke 
of  colonialism.  Since  then,  our  continent  has  been 
liberated  from  the  remnants  of  colonialism  and  other 
forms  of  subjugation.  Today,  it  is  gratifying  to  note 
13-48557
23/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
that  African  countries  constitute  one  of  the  largest 
groups  in  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  express  my  profound  appreciation 
for  the  invaluable  contribution  of  the  United  Nations 
to the decolonization process. However, we should not 
lose sight of the fact that not all the challenges we faced 
in that struggle have been definitively settled; nor can 
we say that the process of decolonization has come to 
an end in all its forms. We should therefore renew our 
commitment to completing the decolonization process 
in Africa.
In  accordance  with  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter, 
the  United  Nations  has  indeed  worked  closely  with 
the  African  Union  and  other  regional  mechanisms 
to  advance  its  primary  objectives.  Over  the  past 
five  decades  and  more,  cooperation  and  partnership 
between  the  OAU/AU  and  the  United  Nations  have 
significantly expanded and deepened in a wide range of 
aspects and fields. We acknowledge with deep respect 
the meaningful cooperation that the United Nations has 
provided to the then OAU and now to the African Union 
in addressing our continent’s multifaceted challenges. 
Despite  that  fact,  we  are  also  cognizant  of  the 
fact  that  a  lot  remains  to  be  done  to  further  enhance 
the  cooperation  and  partnership  between  the  African 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  in  the  context  of  the 
changing  dynamics  within  Africa  and  in  the  world  at 
large. I earnestly hope that this historic occasion will 
afford  us  a  unique  opportunity  to  reflect  seriously 
on  our  challenges  and  shortcomings  with  a  view  to 
strengthening our cooperation and partnership so as to 
better respond to the changing environment. I believe 
we  should  adopt  a  flexible  and  innovative  approach 
in implementing Chapter VIII of the Charter in order 
to  enhance  our  partnership  and  address  our  common 
challenges.
We are celebrating the OAU/AU’s golden jubilee at 
a time when the stereotypical narrative of Africa as a 
continent afflicted by poverty, disease and conflict has 
slowly begun to change. In spite of so many persistent 
difficulties,  Africa  has  indeed  turned  the  corner  in 
reducing the number of conflicts plaguing the continent 
and in promoting democratic governance, as well as in 
fighting poverty through accelerated economic growth 
and development. With its enhanced peace and stability, 
rapid economic growth, natural resources and growing 
middle class, Africa is definitely on the rise, and that 
is attracting much attention from the rest of the world. 
The twenty-first century will be an African one if we 
do indeed harmonize our efforts to maintain — in fact, 
speed up — the rapid economic growth that Africa has 
been registering for the last decade or so. We have every 
reason to be optimistic that an African renaissance is 
around the corner. 
That  positive  development 
is  unquestionably 
encouraging, but we recognize that we can achieve our 
aspirations  for  a  peaceful,  prosperous  and  integrated 
Africa only by bringing about structural transformation. 
That is why we are capitalizing on the golden jubilee 
celebration to chart a transformation agenda for Africa 
to  be  implemented  over  the  next  50  years.  At  our 
most recent session, in May, we also adopted our AU 
Commission’s strategic plan for the period 2014-2017, 
whose main objective is to lay a solid foundation for the 
realization of our vision in the short and medium term.
It  is  indeed  opportune  that  we  are  crafting  our 
transformation 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  post-2015  global  development 
framework  have  begun  in  earnest.  I  am  glad  that  the 
Assembly  will  debate  that  issue  at  this  session,  and  I 
commend  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons 
on the Post-2015 Development Agenda, co-chaired by 
the Presidents of Indonesia and Liberia and the Prime 
Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom,  for  presenting  their 
comprehensive  report,  A  New  Global  Partnership: 
Eradicate  Poverty  and  Transform  Economies  through 
Sustainable  Development,  to  the  Secretary-General.  I 
hope that the report will provide valuable input for our 
discussions of the theme “The post-2015 development 
agenda: setting the stage” during this session.
agenda  when 
Africa  considers  this  issue  to  be  of  paramount 
importance and has formed a high-level committee of 
Heads of State and Government to develop a common 
position  and  galvanize  international  support  in  order 
to  ensure  that  the  successes  achieved  thus  far  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
are  sustained  and  its  development  priorities  beyond 
2015  are  fully  taken  on  board.  As  the  able  Executive 
Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission 
for Africa (UNECA) has aptly put it, what Africa needs 
is structural transformation, not structural adjustment. 
The development agenda we are trying to set for Africa 
over the next 50 years is also aimed at achieving that 
fundamental  objective,  with  a  view  to  eradicating 
poverty  and  ensuring  sustainable  development.  With 
respect  to  the  work  of  the  Open  Working  Group  on 
Sustainable Development Goals, we intend to come up 
with a well-thought-out African position as an outcome 
24/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
of  the  initiative  of  our  troika:  the  African  Union 
Commission,  UNECA  and  the  African  Development 
Bank.
In  that  context,  we  want  to  achieve  a  green 
revolution  in  Africa  and  ensure  food  security  for  our 
peoples. The theme of the African Union in 2014 will 
be  “Agriculture  and  food  security”  and  will  promote 
the  Comprehensive  African  Agriculture  Development 
Programme,  which  will  allow  us  to  reinforce  our 
commitment  to  the  transformation  of  the  agricultural 
sector in Africa.
We  are  also  convinced  of  the  need  for  Africa 
to  industrialize  in  order  to  accelerate  its  economic 
growth,  generate  employment,  increase  income  and 
diversify exports. That can be done on the basis of our 
factor  endowments  and  taking  into  account  the  need 
for  us  to  increase  added  value  and  exploit  forward 
and  backward  linkages.  It  cannot  be  emphasized 
enough that overcoming poverty is impossible without 
structural  transformation  and  value  addition,  which 
makes industrialization not an option but a must — an 
unavoidable necessity for Africa. Let me state here how 
grateful we are to all those who have made partnerships 
available  to  us  to  ensure  that  Africa  develops  the 
capacity  for  modern  and  affordable  energy,  without 
which industrialization would be impossible to achieve.
in 
infrastructure,  which  has  been  neglected  over  past 
decades,  in  order  to  promote  intra-African  trade  and 
fast-track regional integration. We are also committed 
to  redoubling  our  efforts  to  improve  the  overall  well-
being of our society. In particular, we believe that Africa 
should  reap  the  benefits  of  its  demographic  dividend 
by  investing  in  its  people.  Educating  our  youth  and 
upgrading their skills is critical to the effective use of 
our human capital. Therefore we very much hope that 
the  post-2015  global  development  framework  will  be 
aligned to our development priorities and needs.
Furthermore,  we  would 
invest 
like 
to 
We  in  Africa  certainly  recognize  that  we  cannot 
realize  our  development  aspirations  in  the  absence 
of  durable  peace  and  security.  That  is  why  we  have 
concentrated  tremendous  efforts  in  addressing  the 
scourge  of  conflicts  on  our  continent.  We  are  indeed 
very pleased to note the drastic decline in the number 
of conflicts in Africa during the last decade, with the 
exception of a few situations. But we also understand 
that there is a new security dynamic on our continent, 
with the rise of popular dissatisfaction associated with 
demands yet unmet.
In  that  regard,  the  African  Union  has  been 
exerting  efforts  to  assist  Egypt  —  a  member  State 
whose  contribution  to  the  decolonization  process  on 
our  continent  and  to  African  unity  has  been  second 
to  none  —  to  overcome  its  current  difficulties  in  the 
spirit of African solidarity. The African Union is also 
extending all the necessary support to Tunisia in order 
to  ensure  a  successful  political  transition  through 
the adoption of a new constitution and the holding of 
elections.
On  the  other  hand,  we  welcome  the  successful 
conduct of elections in Mali that paved the way for the 
restoration of constitutional order in that country. The 
African Union is indeed firmly committed to continue 
assisting  Mali  in  its  efforts  to  ensure  lasting  peace, 
security and development. We derive satisfaction from 
the  significant  progress  made  in  Somalia  towards 
peace  in  the  country,  and  we  are  also  encouraged  by 
the  agreement  reached  between  the  Federal  Republic 
of Somalia and the Juba Interim Administration, which 
constitutes a significant milestone in promoting peace 
and national reconciliation. The New Deal announced 
at the Somalia Conference in Brussels on 16 September 
will  certainly  strengthen  the  momentum  for  the 
reconstruction of the country and building peace there.
The security and humanitarian situation in Central 
African Republic is still a matter of serious concern. I 
wish to reiterate our call to the United Nations to provide 
multifaceted  support  to  the  African-led  International 
Support Mission in the Central African Republic, which 
will be deployed in that country to protect civilians and 
restore  security  and  public  order.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  escalation  of  tension  in  the  eastern  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo also poses threats to the peace 
and security of the Great Lakes region and the continent 
as  a  whole.  The  only  durable  solution  is  for  both  the 
Government  and  the  armed  opposition  to  conclude 
their peace talks under the auspices of the International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  (ICGLR).  In 
that connection, I would like to welcome the outcome 
of the ICGLR Extraordinary Summit held in Kampala 
on  5  September  2013  and  High-level  Political  Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development  held  in  New  York  on 
23  September  in  New  York  under  the  auspices  of  the 
President of the Assembly.
With  regard  to  relations  between  the  Sudan  and 
South Sudan, the African Union, in close collaboration 
with the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, 
has established an ad hoc investigation mechanism to 
13-48557
25/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
verify allegations made by the two countries regarding 
each country’s support for and harbouring of dissident 
elements that act against the other. The team is carrying 
out  its  work,  and  I  am  hopeful  that  the  outcome  of 
the  investigation  will  help  the  two  countries  to  move 
forward in the implementation of the agreements they 
have signed and in the normalization of their relations. 
On a more practical level, the summits and the regular 
engagement  that  the  leaders  of  the  two  countries  are 
having will go a long way in breaking the impasse and 
resolving some of the difficult outstanding issues.
I would like to raise one important issue that has 
been a matter of serious concern for us in our efforts 
to promote peace, security and national reconciliation 
on the continent and regarding which there is a strong 
consensus  in  Africa.  Time  and  again,  we  in  Africa 
have affirmed our unflinching commitment to fighting 
impunity and promoting democracy, rule of law and good 
governance  throughout  the  continent,  in  conformity 
with  the  Constitutive  Act  of  the  African  Union.  That 
commitment  has  been  empirically  validated  by  bold 
actions taken recently by the African Union.
When  it  comes  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  many  of  our  member  States  ratified  the 
Rome  Statute  faithfully,  subscribing  to  its  cardinal 
objectives and principles. Unfortunately, the manner in 
which the ICC has been operating has left a very bad 
impression in Africa. Instead of promoting justice and 
reconciliation  and  contributing  to  peace  and  stability, 
it has degenerated into a political instrument targeting 
Africa  and  Africans.  This  is  totally  unacceptable, 
and that is why Africa has been expressing its serious 
reservations against the body.
It  is  regrettable  that  our  repeated  request  to 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council  to  defer  the 
proceedings 
initiated  against  President  A1-Bashir 
has  been  neither  heard  nor  acted  upon.  We  have  also 
received  no  response  to  our  request  for  a  deferral  of 
the  ICC  investigations  and  prosecutions  in  relation 
to  the  2008  post-election  violence  in  Kenya,  in  line 
with  the  principle  of  complementarity,  to  allow  for  a 
national  mechanism  to  investigate  and  prosecute  the 
cases  under  a  reformed  judiciary  provided  for  in  the 
new constitutional dispensation.
In light of the encouraging developments in Kenya 
with the adoption of the new Constitution, the reform 
of the judiciary and the holding of successful legislative 
and presidential elections, we believe it is very critical 
to support the peacebuilding and national reconciliation 
processes  in  the  country.  The  recent  decision  of  the 
ICC in relation to the Kenyan situation is unhelpful and 
adversely  affects  the  ability  of  the  Kenyan  leaders  in 
the  discharge  of  their  constitutional  responsibilities. 
Therefore I would like to take this opportunity to once 
again  urge  the  Security  Council  to  respond  to  our 
requests.
In an increasingly globalized and multipolar world, 
Africa obviously needs to forge multiple partnerships 
to  realize  its  development  aspirations  and  assume  its 
rightful place in the international arena. It gives me great 
satisfaction  to  note  that  Africa’s  strategic  partnership 
with  both  developed  and  emerging  economies  has 
expanded and deepened in recent years. That is the path 
we  wish  to  pursue.  Africa  needs  the  solidarity  of  all 
sections of the international community, and it is our 
hope  that  all  the  necessary  support  will  be  extended 
to  Africa  in  the  spirit  of  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2), which underlined so emphatically the 
special situation of Africa. That, in our view, should be 
the spirit with which the deficit in the implementation 
of  Millennium  Development  Goal  8  must  be  treated 
during the very short time remaining.
In conclusion I wish to underline Africa’s enduring 
commitment  to  this  indispensable  global  body  —  a 
universal organization whose viability is an existential 
necessity. It is in that spirit that Africa will continue to 
nurture its close cooperation with the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  and 
Chairperson of the African Union for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Antigua and Barbuda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda.
Mr.  Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
26/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston  Baldwin 
Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Spencer (Antigua and Barbuda): I stand in the 
Hall today as the leader of one of the smallest countries 
in the world — small by size, population and resources. 
I also stand here today with a proud heart and a strong 
voice  because  my  small  country  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda has produced a giant in the world’s geopolitical 
sphere. He is among the finest and most accomplished 
diplomats  to  have  ever  walked  these  great  halls.  The 
Government and people of Antigua and Barbuda send 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Ambassador  John 
William Ashe on his election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  We  are  beyond 
sure that he will guide this body through a successful 
session. I offer congratulations also to his predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  on  a  job  well  done 
and  for  his  unrelenting  service  to  the  international 
community.
Exactly  five  years  ago  today,  I  stood  in  this 
hallowed Hall and stated that: 
if 
labour 
“We are all members of one body. The welfare 
of the weakest and the welfare of the most powerful 
are  inseparably  bound  together.  Industry  cannot 
flourish 
languishes.  Transportation 
cannot  prosper  if  manufacturing  declines.  The 
general welfare cannot be provided for in any one 
act,  but  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the  benefit  of 
one is the benefit of all, and the neglect of one is the 
neglect of all.” (A/64/PV.7, p. 32)
With  the  ever-increasing  gaps  in  equality  among 
nations,  the  challenges  for  developing  countries  over 
the  years  have  remained  vast.  In  trying  to  address 
the  issue  of  inequality  and  to  diminish  very  basic 
human  challenges  by  2015,  world  leaders  adopted 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
MDGs were described as a milestone in international 
cooperation.  With  a  15-year 
their 
implementation,  the  Declaration  was  widely  expected 
to inspire development and to directly improve the lives 
of hundreds of millions of people. They are the people 
who are struggling to survive in the most basic living 
conditions  and  who  are  suffering  from  the  effects  of 
poverty, gender inequities, ill health and environmental 
degradation.
timespan  for 
Thirteen years have gone by, and what do we, as a 
global community, have to show in terms of concrete 
results?  No  matter  which  side  of  the  lens  we  look 
through,  something  is  appallingly  wrong.  With  less 
than two years to go before 2015, we must ask ourselves 
as leaders why those commitments, related to the most 
significant global declaration made to the world’s most 
vulnerable people, are not being fulfilled.
It is important for me to be extremely clear. I am 
not here to declare the MDGs dead, nor am I advocating 
that they be interred. Rather, I remain convinced that 
they  can  still  be  refocused,  reformed,  reshaped  and 
rebranded into a new mechanism post-2015.
We find ourselves standing at the precipice of 2015, 
that  crucial  defining  moment.  The  current  moment 
is  captured  by  notable  but  uneven  developments  in 
some crucial areas. Considerable gaps remain and new 
challenges have emerged. As leaders we must therefore 
acknowledge  that  now  more  than  ever,  through  the 
process  of  globalization,  individuals  and  societies 
from one corner of the Earth to another, from oceans 
and  continents,  are  intricately  connected  and  more 
interdependent than ever before. Therefore, a post-2015 
development  agenda  must  concede  that  fact  and  be 
guided by that reality. 
The  deliberations  for  international  collaboration 
and development ahead of 2015 present the opportunity 
to 
redirect  previous  notions  of  prosperity  and 
development  among  nations.  Considering  the  current 
world economic, social and environmental challenges, 
that is indisputably critical.
We must concede that the current structure of the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  does  not 
provide satisfactory remedies to our universal problems, 
which  include  an  increase  in  global  warming,  the 
escalating gap between the worlds’s rich and the poor, 
the further deterioration of the world’s financial system 
and  the  uneven  roles  that  developed  and  developing 
countries play in responding to and addressing issues 
of  universal  importance  and  impact  on  our  societies. 
Taking into account some of those shortcomings, now 
is the opportune time for setting the stage for a post-
2015 development agenda that is all-inclusive, effective 
and pragmatic.
Of concern to Antigua and Barbuda are the failings 
of  the  international  community  in  fulfilling  the  aims 
and  objectives  outlined  in  the  Barbados  Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
13-48557
27/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
Island  Developing  States  (SIDS).  The  year  2014  will 
mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  first  Global 
Conference  on  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados 
in 1994. 
Looking  back  over 
the  20  years  since 
that 
Conference, we see that the international community’s 
actions to address the unique and special circumstances 
of SIDS have been lacking. It is my hope that the SIDS 
conference in Samoa in 2014 will give the international 
community the opportunity to correct the wrongs made 
and to improve on shortcomings with regard to SIDS. 
The conference will also present us with a third chance 
to  identify  a  set  of  concrete  actions,  which  will  be 
needed for the further implementation of the Barbados 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
Implementation and thereby regain momentum lost by 
SIDS in the quest for sustainable development.
We  welcome  the  decision  by  the  United  Nations 
family  to  designate  2014  as  the  International  Year  of 
Small Island Developing States. Antigua and Barbuda 
pledges to highlight throughout 2014 the issue of SIDS 
with the aim of reinvigorating the SIDS agenda.
My  Government  firmly  believes  in  promoting 
partnerships supporting sustainable development based 
on the principles of mutual respect and understanding, 
equality  and  a  genuine  desire  to  affect  the  social  and 
economic  development  of  all.  My  Government  has 
deepened  our  integration  efforts  with  our  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM) brothers and sisters, focusing 
on  fully  implementing  the  CARICOM  Single  Market 
and  Economy,  as  well  as  deepening  the  various 
subregional regulatory frameworks.
As  a  member  of  the  smaller  grouping  of  the 
Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  (OECS), 
Antigua and Barbuda has fully joined and endorsed the 
OECS economic union in an effort to build on the shared 
tradition  of  our  subregional  integration  arrangements 
and to expand the areas of shared sovereignty in order 
to  survive  and  ultimately  thrive.  At  the  same  time, 
my  Government  has  secured  full  participation  in  the 
Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America 
and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean 
States, as we seek to further strengthen the integration 
and development of Latin America and the Caribbean.
It is a recognized fact, but one worth repeating, that 
small  island  States  contribute  the  least  to  the  causes 
of climate change yet suffer the most from its effects. 
We  small  island  States  have  expressed  our  profound 
disappointment  at  the  lack  of  tangible  action  within 
the  negotiations  on  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  to  protect  SIDS  and 
other  vulnerable  countries,  their  peoples,  culture, 
land and ecosystems. The responsibility for mitigating 
climate  change  is  shared  by  all  nations,  developed 
and  developing.  However,  developed 
countries 
should  shoulder  their  moral,  ethical  and  historical 
responsibility  for  emitting  anthropogenic  greenhouse 
gases into the atmosphere. It is those actions that have 
now  put  the  planet  in  jeopardy  and  compromised  the 
well-being of present and future generations.
Vulnerable  developing  societies  such  as  ours  are 
also  victims  of  the  globalization  of  crime,  notably 
in  the  havoc  wrought  by  handguns  in  the  possession 
of  criminal  elements,  by  narcotrafficking  that  is 
essentially targeted at markets in developed countries 
and by the deportation of criminals to our shores. We 
urge  the  international  community,  in  recognition  of 
the  link  between  globalization  and  crime,  to  provide 
greater  support  for  the  efforts  of  small  island  States 
such as Antigua and Barbuda to address the escalation 
of  crime  and  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  in  combating 
international  drug  trafficking.  We  further  call  on  our 
developed partners to reduce the practice of deporting 
violent criminals to our shores. Most of those deportees 
have  neither  connection  nor  familiarity  with  our 
countries.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  proud  to  be  among 
the  growing  number  of  States  that  have  signed  and 
ratified  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  (ATT).  The  Treaty 
will, among other things, assist Antigua and Barbuda 
in enhancing its capacity to tackle the scourge created 
by  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons 
and  their  ammunition,  which  is  associated  with  other 
transboundary crimes, such as drug trafficking. We have 
emphasized  throughout  the  process  that  such  crimes 
have had a negative impact on the socioeconomic well-
being  of  our  societies.  Antigua  and  Barbuda  stresses 
the importance of the early entry into force of the ATT 
and will continue to work energetically with Member 
States to ensure its entry into force.
Another  threat  to  the  sustainable  development  of 
small  island  developing  States  such  as  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  is  the  rise  in  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs).  The  situation  is  at  an  alarming  stage,  as 
hundreds succumb annually. For Antigua and Barbuda, 
the prevention, care and treatment of non-communicable 
28/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
diseases  continue  to  be  a  challenge.  Heart  disease, 
diabetes,  cancer,  cardiovascular  disease  and  chronic 
respiratory diseases continue to be the leading causes of 
death in our region. Our health-care system, economy 
and population are heavily burdened by NCDs; it is for 
that reason that my Government has become even more 
proactive in addressing the issue. Health care continues 
to be basically free for Antiguans and Barbudans, and 
the  Government  often  helps  citizens  seek  treatment 
abroad when our facilities at home are unable to provide 
it. I ask the Assembly to continue to keep the issue of 
NCDs high on its agenda.
My small developing nation of Antigua and Barbuda 
has sought to ensure that the trade rules agreed to by a 
majority  of  members  of  the  international  community, 
including  the  United  States  of  America,  are  adhered 
to.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  a  trade  dispute  between  my 
country and the United States of America that has been 
ongoing  for  a  decade  and  which  has  been  submitted 
to  the  dispute  settlement  system  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO). I draw the Assembly’s attention 
to the dispute because I believe it has the potential to 
damage  the  credibility  and  undermine  the  utility  of 
the WTO’s dispute settlement system and of the WTO 
itself. 
My Government won the case at both the original 
and  appellate  levels  and  yet,  a  decade  later,  the  end 
is not in sight. It is a case that pits the world’s largest 
economy  against  one  of  the  smallest,  and  despite  our 
best  efforts,  our  patient  negotiations  with  the  United 
States of America have borne no fruit. The United States 
of America has neither removed the offending laws nor 
agreed on a fair settlement with Antigua and Barbuda 
that would compensate for the wanton destruction of an 
entire economic sector. We believe that it is a blow to 
the credibility of the WTO to allow the world’s largest 
economy  and  the  WTO’s  most  powerful  member  to 
ignore  the  lawful  decision  of  its  dispute  settlement 
tribunal  without  consequences.  The 
international 
trading  system  will  not  long  survive  such  a  profound 
challenge, and we call on the United States to correct 
past  wrongs  and  come  to  the  table  with  meaningful 
proposals that can bring the matter to a just conclusion. 
Although  my  Government  has  until  now 
exercised  strategic  patience,  we  intend,  through  the 
only  mechanism  that  the  WTO  has  provided,  to  seek 
compensation  for  the  thousands  of  jobs  lost,  the 
companies collapsed and the general devastation of the 
second-largest  sector  of  our  economy  after  tourism. 
More  than  jobs  are  at  stake  here.  The  WTO  must  be 
seen  to  deliver  justice  to  its  members,  especially  one 
of its smallest constituents. If not, its credibility as the 
arbiter  of  international  trade  disputes  will  bleed  into 
the dust and hollow out its noble intentions.
As  a  part  of  the  Caribbean  and  a  member  of  the 
CARICOM family, Antigua and Barbuda supports the 
preservation of the sovereignty of every nation. We are 
therefore very proud of our long-standing relationship 
with the Republic of Cuba. My Government condemns 
in  the  strongest  possible  terms  any  discriminatory  or 
retaliatory  policies  and  practices  designed  to  prevent 
Cuba  from  exercising  its  right  to  freely  participate 
in  the  affairs  of  our  hemisphere.  Today,  I  once  again 
reiterate  my  Government’s  firm  condemnation  of  the 
unilateral  and  extraterritorial  application  of  coercive 
laws  and  measures  contrary  to  international  law,  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles  of 
free  navigation  and  international  trade.  Antigua  and 
Barbuda therefore urges the United States of America 
to  respect  and  take  note  of  the  unceasing  call  by  the 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  it  immediately 
lift  the  unjust  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade imposed on the Republic of Cuba. These and 
other  associated  measures  serve  no  other  end  than  to 
hinder the socioeconomic development and well-being 
of the people of the Republic of Cuba.
Antigua and Barbuda also affirms its long-standing 
stance  and  commitment  towards  combating  terrorism 
in  all  its  forms  and  expressions  and  condemns  any 
action which goes against international law, resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations  or  principles  of  human  rights 
protection.  We  therefore  condemn  the  recent  terrorist 
acts  in  Kenya  and  express  our  profound  sympathy  to 
the Government of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the 
families  of  those  who  lost  loved  ones.  We  also  in  the 
strongest  sense  condemn  acts  of  terrorism  in  other 
parts of the world.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  also  expresses  its  concern 
about the inclusion of the Republic of Cuba on the list 
of  State  sponsors  of  terrorism  published  by  the  State 
Department of the United States of America. We reject 
the unilateral elaboration of blacklists accusing States 
of  allegedly  supporting  and  sponsoring  terrorism, 
which is inconsistent with international law. We request 
the  United  States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  that 
unilateral practice.
13-48557
29/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
Antigua and Barbuda welcomes the launch of the 
design for a permanent memorial to honour the victims 
of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade, an initiative 
that  was  championed  by  CARICOM.  We  also  look 
forward to its full erection in the coming months.
One year ago, I stood here and reiterated the need 
for serious dialogue on the topic of reparations. Today 
I  am  proud  that  the  members  of  CARICOM,  at  its 
thirty-fourth  Regular  Meeting  of  the  Conference  of 
Heads of Government, held in Trinidad and Tobago in 
July, agreed to support the establishment of a regional 
reparations commission to begin laying the groundwork 
for  a  process  of  engagement  and  conversation  on  the 
issue of reparations for native genocide and slavery.
I  am  equally  pleased  that  the  first  regional 
reparations conference was held in St. Vincent and the 
Grenadines  earlier  this  month,  with  proposals  for  the 
formalization  of  a  regional  reparations  commission. 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  therefore  conceptualizes  the 
call  for  reparations  as  an  integral  element  of  our 
development  strategy  and  believes  that  the  legacy  of 
slavery and colonialism in the Caribbean has severely 
impaired our development options. We therefore assert 
that reparations must be directed towards repairing the 
damage inflicted by slavery and racism.
We  have  recently  seen  a  number  of  leaders 
apologizing  to  the  African  diaspora,  to  indigenous 
peoples  and  to  former  colonies  for  past  wrongs  and 
injustices. I salute those leaders who have demonstrated 
such  enlightenment  and  strongly  encourage  others  to 
do so and equally match their words with concrete and 
material  benefits  to  the  descendants  of  genocide  and 
the brutal enslavement of their ancestors.
My  country,  while  developmentally 
focused, 
is  mindful  of  other  global  issues,  particularly  with 
reference to peace and security. The continued unrest in 
the Middle East, particularly in Syria, is heartbreaking. 
The  images  of  innocent  women  and  children  being 
displaced and killed tug at my consciousness. Antigua 
and  Barbuda  gives  its  unconditional  support  to  the 
preservation of the role of the United Nations and other 
organizations  in  working  towards  stabilization  and 
peace in Syria and other conflict-ridden countries.
In  the  same  vein,  we  call  on  those  leaders  to 
protect  civilians  at  all  costs  and  move  quickly  to 
devise  diplomatic  solutions  to  the  conflicts.  Wilful 
and  deliberate  attacks  upon  civilians  should  be  taken 
seriously  by  the  international  community,  and  the 
international  courts  should  move  to  act  in  a  manner 
consistent with international laws and norms.
War,  or  even  the  threat  of  war,  should  be  an 
absolute  last  resort  and  should  have  the  full  support 
of the international community at all times. Unilateral 
prescriptions will never solve a problem.
We  cannot  successfully  achieve  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  if  world  leaders  stand  idle  and 
see the tears and desperation on the faces of the many 
children  who  are  hungry.  We  cannot  successfully 
achieve  a  post-2015  development  agenda  if  world 
leaders allow easily treatable illnesses and diseases to 
destroy our populations.
We  cannot  successfully  achieve  a  post-2015 
development agenda if world leaders sit back and allow 
the lines of class divisions and insurmountable social 
barriers to increase.
We  cannot  successfully  achieve  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  if  world  leaders  continue  to 
allow the imbalances of economic growth, destructive 
trade  barriers  and  protectionism  from  developed  to 
developing countries to persist. 
We  cannot  successfully  achieve  a  post-2015 
development agenda if world leaders do not act to save 
our environment and stop the pollution of our air and 
oceans  and  the  wanton  destruction  of  our  forests  and 
lands only for the benefit of a few.
When the founders of the United Nations formulated 
this great institution, it was not envisioned as a stage or 
a repository for eloquent speeches. The United Nations 
was  conceptualized  as  a  place  where  our  challenges 
would  be  discussed,  solutions  cultivated  and  action 
taken.
It is for those reasons that our leaders gathered here 
today  should  work  towards  a  fundamental,  impartial 
and  sustainable  social,  economic  and  environmental 
post-2015 development agenda that is far-reaching and 
all-inclusive.  Anything  less  would  be  unacceptable 
and  would  be  a  travesty  for  millions  of  the  world’s 
inhabitants, for whom we are required to act and do so 
courageously and decisively.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
for the statement he has just made.
30/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
Mr.  Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Fiji and Commander 
of the Fiji Military Forces 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Fiji and Commander of the Fiji Military Forces.
Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Fiji and Commander of the Fiji Military 
Forces, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji and Commander 
of the Fiji Military Forces, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  congratulate  President  Ashe  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session and express my confidence that under his able 
and  wise  guidance,  the  Assembly  will  successfully 
accomplish  its  many  tasks.  I  would  also  like  to  pay 
tribute to the tireless efforts of last year’s President, His 
Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, and extend my appreciation 
for the effectiveness with which he directed the work of 
the Assembly at the previous session.
Fiji reached a pivotal moment in its history earlier 
this  month,  when  His  Excellency  the  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Fiji  promulgated  the  nation’s  new 
Constitution.  This  Constitution  introduces  the  first 
genuine democracy that Fiji will enjoy since we gained 
independence from the United Kingdom in 1970. Forty-
three  years  and  three  Constitutions  later,  we  finally 
have a Constitution that is worthy of the Fijian people. 
It  is  a  Constitution  that  meets  the  test  of  a  genuine 
democracy, that upholds the legal and moral basis of a 
common and equal citizenry without denying anyone’s 
individuality or culture. 
The  2013  Fijian  Constitution  enshrines  principles 
that  are  at  the  heart  of  all  the  world’s  great  liberal 
democracies: an independent judiciary, a secular State 
and a wide range of civil, political and socioeconomic 
rights. It recognizes the indigenous peoples of Fiji and 
their  customary  practices,  protects  the  rights  of  the 
predominantly indigenous landowners and those of their 
tenants, demands accountability and transparency from 
Government  officials,  builds  strong  and  independent 
institutions  and  replaces  our  old  weighted  electoral 
system with one based on the principle of one person, 
one  vote,  one  value.  That  historic  achievement  is  the 
culmination  of  a  path  that  Fiji  embarked  on  in  2007 
to establish a modern and stable society that can be a 
proud and responsible part of the global community. 
For years we struggled to be a nation under a system 
that created different classes of citizens and in which 
the  votes  of  some  Fijians  counted  more  than  others. 
How could we be one nation when our fundamental law 
said that we were not one people? The very idea of a 
just and equal society, of an accountable Government 
and of loyalty to the nation State was being eroded from 
within.  There  were  too  many  elites  who  thought  the 
best way to entrench their own privileges was to sow 
the  seeds  of  division  and  undermine  our  independent 
institutions. The removals of the Government in 1987 
and  2000  were  the  most  radical  expressions  of  that 
dysfunction.
As a result, tens of thousands of Fijians suffered, 
and  many  made  the  decision  to  leave  their  home 
forever —  to  leave  Fiji.  As  I  have  said  before,  that  is 
one of the most shameful episodes of our history, and 
I am determined that it must never, ever happen again. 
We must never allow a fellow citizen to be second class 
or to be less than an equal of his neighbour. Surely, such 
a basic principle as that deserves the full support of all 
nations that would never accept any less for their own 
people.
So we have set out to make a change for the good, a 
permanent change that would set the nation on a straight 
course  and  allow  Fiji  to  finally  reach  the  potential 
it  had  when  we  so  enthusiastically  embraced  our 
independence. It has been a long journey, and we have 
faced numerous challenges along the way. But it is with 
great pleasure and deep honour that I stand here today 
and  say:  our  national  compass  has  finally  been  reset. 
Under  the  new  Constitution,  we  are  heading  towards 
Fiji’s first genuinely democratic elections by September 
2014 and a much brighter future as one nation.
With  every  month  that  passes,  we  are  building 
the foundations of our new parliamentary democracy. 
Unlike in the past, we are building a credible and fair 
system  that  will  guide  that  process.  Four  political 
parties  have  registered  thus  far  under  the  new  laws, 
which  create  transparency  and  accountability,  and 
13-48557
31/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
close to 540,000 Fijians — out of an estimated 620,000 
eligible voters — have registered for the 2014 election.
Many  modern,  stable  democracies  have  gone 
through their own turbulent periods. Some have gone 
through  decades  of  instability  and  bloodshed,  while 
others  have  had  a  single  defining  moment.  Those 
events  changed  the  course  of  history.  They  turned 
their countries from bastions of elitism and oppression 
into nations of freedom, equality and true democracy. 
The  United  States  has  its  Bunker  Hill  and  Civil  War. 
France has the storming of the Bastille and the French 
revolution.  Australia  has  the  Eureka  Stockade,  and 
Britain  has  had  a  bloody  history  as  it  struggled  to 
establish  a  constitutional  monarchy.  We  Fijians  have 
also had our share of turbulence.
Regrettably and to our great disappointment, some 
of our oldest friends had no faith in us. They abandoned 
us and sought to punish us with sanctions. We sought 
their  assistance  and  understanding,  but  they  turned 
their  backs  on  us.  They  chose  to  support  a  form  of 
democracy,  governance  and  justice  in  Fiji  that  they 
would  never  have  accepted  for  themselves.  We  hope 
that  they  see  now  that  we  were  true  to  our  word.  All 
nations  struggle  over  time  to  overcome  their  unique 
challenges, to correct historic sins and to be worthy of 
the principles on which they were founded. We in Fiji 
are no different. Our isolation led us to seek out new 
relationships,  which  have  proven  fruitful.  Now,  our 
standing in the world has never been stronger. 
A  key  principle  that  has  guided  Fiji’s  political 
development  and  foreign  policy  and 
is  soundly 
grounded  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is 
that  we  determine  our  own  destinies  as  sovereign 
States.  At  the  same  time,  we  recognize  the  necessity 
of collaborating with all Member States of the United 
Nations  with  the  aim  of  supporting  sustainable  world 
peace, substantive justice, dignity and respect for all. It 
is that spirit of collaboration that has inspired us to go 
beyond parochial interests and reach out to help others. 
That  spirit  enjoins  us  to  be  loyal  to  common  ideals, 
goals, values and principles. They remain our guiding 
beacons as we navigate our way in this millennium.
The theme set by the President to guide the general 
debate  at  this  sixty-eighth  session,  which  is  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage,” 
is  most  fitting  for  the  juncture  at  which  the  United 
Nations stands. In the midst of increasing poverty and 
underdevelopment and during an era of unprecedented 
wealth  accumulation  and  technological  advances,  the 
rift that divides the rich and the poor zones of the world 
ever widens. We must therefore not lose focus on one 
imperative of our time: equality among nations, big and 
small, is central to the relevance, credibility and even 
survival of this global Organization.
In that regard, we are encouraged by the progress 
made  thus  far  in  the  General  Assembly  towards 
expeditiously  launching  the  follow-up  mechanisms 
agreed at the Rio+20 Conference in 2012. Throughout 
the  course  of  this  year,  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
has  emphasized  that  the  road  map  towards  a  post-
2015  development  agenda  needs 
the 
implementation  gaps  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  with  poverty  eradication 
remaining  an 
overarching  goal.  The  new  development  agenda  must 
be  universal,  applicable  and  relevant  to  all  Member 
States.  Let  me  also  stress  that  the  new  development 
agenda  should  be  centred  on  economic  development 
that supports both social inclusion and environmental 
sustainability.
to  address 
Our  common  desire  for  a  transformative  global 
development agenda beyond 2015 can best be achieved 
through  collective  efforts  and  an  enhanced  global 
partnership.  Such  efforts  must  place  the  development 
and well-being of people at its core. If the international 
community  and  national  Governments  seriously 
commit  to  an  agenda  for  meaningful  transformation 
at  the  structural,  institutional  and  normative  levels, 
the post-2015 development agenda has the potential of 
achieving a paradigm shift in global conditions.
Fiji’s  commitment  to  being  a  good  global  citizen 
is  manifested  through  our  ongoing  engagement  with 
the  United  Nations  and  its  associated  agencies  and 
secretariats.  Our  decision  to  take  on  the  mantle  of 
chairing the Group of 77 and China for the year 2013 
was informed by the fact that Fiji embraces its rights 
as an equal Member of the United Nations and that we 
must  therefore  also  carry  all  the  due  responsibilities 
expected of us within this great family of nations.
Fiji’s commitment to United Nations peacekeeping 
remains  unwavering.  It  is  a  source  of  great  pride 
that,  for  a  nation  of  our  size,  we  are  able  to  make  a 
meaningful  and  significant  contribution.  For  the  past 
three  decades,  we  have  always  responded  to  the  call 
of  the  United  Nations  to  serve,  including  in  the  most 
difficult  circumstances  around  the  world.  While  we 
fully recognize the risks involved, Fiji’s confidence in 
32/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
its peacekeepers prompted us to provide troops to the 
Golan Heights this year to assist the United Nations in a 
time of need. The many years of service of Fijian troops 
in  the  Middle  East  region,  particularly  in  Lebanon, 
Iraq  and  Sinai,  are  an  asset  that  our  troops  take  with 
them to that mission. Fiji also sees police peacekeeping 
and contributions in the corrections and justice sector 
as  important  in  building  local  State  institutions  that 
can  be  run  by  local  authorities  once  peacekeeping 
missions end, and we are building on our many existing 
commitments  in  that  regard  in  Liberia,  Darfur  and 
South Sudan.
It  is  up  to  us  in  the  General  Assembly  to  ensure 
that  all  support  possible  is  given  to  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries  serving  on  the  ground, 
including 
through  clear  and  appropriate  policy 
guidance.  For  the  good  of  the  countries  concerned, 
we  must  not  abdicate  that  responsibility.  I  urge  us 
all  to  work  together  in  the  United  Nations  to  provide 
such  concrete  policy  guidance,  particularly  as  we  see 
peacekeeping  missions  evolve  into  multidimensional 
and  complex  missions  that  differ  greatly  from  early 
United Nations peacekeeping missions.
As a Pacific island nation, Fiji reaffirms its support 
for the efforts of small island developing States (SIDS) 
to achieve sustainable development. Not only are SIDS 
acutely vulnerable to the effects of climate change, such 
as sea-level rise, ocean acidification and the increased 
frequency of extreme weather events, but for some of 
us  the  threat  is  to  our  very  existence.  Our  response 
to  the  plight  of  those  most  at  risk  must  therefore  be 
characterized by a requisite sense of urgency.
The convening of the third International Conference 
for  Sustainable  Development  of  SIDS  in  2014  will  be 
critical to addressing, in a very specific and concrete 
manner,  the  many  challenges  faced  by  SIDS.  It  is 
an  opportunity  for  the  international  community  to 
renew  its  commitment  to  the  implementation  of  the 
decisions  and  agreements  pertaining  to  SIDS.  As 
the  international  community  discusses  the  post-2015 
development  landscape,  including  a  successor  to  the 
Hyogo  Framework  for  Action,  we  must  ensure  that  a 
new  model  accounts  for  and  addresses  the  risks  we 
face.  This  is  particularly  relevant  for  SIDS,  where 
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  in  economic  losses 
occur  as  a  result  of  so-called  natural  disasters  every 
year.  Protecting  development  gains  and  investing  in 
disaster resilience is vital to sustainable development.
The United Nations efforts to eradicate colonialism 
must  forge  ahead  within  the  context  of  the  Special 
Political  and  Decolonization  Committee,  of  which 
Fiji  is  a  member.  Through  the  Pacific  regional  body 
known as the Melanesian Spearhead Group, Fiji works 
together with other members of the Fourth Committee 
to accelerate the process of decolonization.
In  reforming  and  developing  its  information  and 
communication  technology  (ICT)  infrastructure,  Fiji 
has adopted a comprehensive approach by combining a 
national framework for ICT development with effective 
and pragmatic policies and initiatives to deliver results 
directly to the Fijian people. That approach is bearing 
fruit.  Fiji  has  achieved  95  per  cebt  mobile  coverage, 
including 3G; concluded one of the region’s first open 
auctions  for  the  4G  spectrum;  and  is  implementing  a 
number of innovative initiatives to increase affordable 
access  and  improve  services,  including  in  the  most 
remote parts of our country.
The International Telecommunication Union, in its 
annual review of more than 150 countries’ delivery of 
ICT  infrastructure  and  services  to  their  populations, 
gave special recognition to Fiji as a developing country. 
Fiji  tied  for  the  third  largest  improvement  of  any 
country  and  is  ranked  fourth  globally  in  percentage 
terms, having improved by 14 per cent.
As  the  first  country  to  ratify  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  Fiji  has  kept  its 
oceanic  obligations  at  the  core  of  its  foreign  policy. 
While  some  disconnect  exists  between  what 
is 
contained  in  international  instruments  and  what  is  or 
is  not  implemented,  we  need  a  commitment  to  clear 
steps to turn words into actions in order to facilitate the 
sustainable management of ocean resources and make 
equitable the share of benefits from their utilization.
Fiji  hosted 
the 
inaugural  Pacific 
Islands 
Development  Forum  (PIDF)  last  month.  Its  formation 
makes the PIDF the only South-South organization in 
the Pacific region that provides for a multi-stakeholder 
platform  where  Governments,  the  private  sector  and 
civil society can discuss what we Pacific Islanders need 
to do to achieve sustainable development.
We  look  forward  to  a  productive  sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly. Let me reiterate our 
full support and cooperation with President Ashe and 
all  members  with  a  view  to  advancing  the  objectives 
of the United Nations and the aspirations of the global 
community.
13-48557
33/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Fiji and Commander of the Military Forces, 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  Fiji  and  Commander  of  the  Military 
Forces, was escorted from the rostrum.
Statement by Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  President  of  the  European 
Council.
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
European Council, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council, and inviting him to 
make a statement.
the 
Mr. Van Rompuy (European Council): A year ago 
when we met in the General Assembly, we joined our 
voices to deplore the fact that the Syrian civil war had 
claimed  over  25,000  lives.  One  year  on,  it  has  killed 
over  100,000  men,  women  and  children.  The  number 
of refugees, which stood at 250,000 in September 2012, 
doubled  by  December  that  year,  then  doubled  again 
by March, and then it doubled again. Today, there are 
2  million  Syrians  outside  their  country,  half  of  them 
children, and under current trends, their number is close 
to doubling again, and there may be 3.5 million refugees 
before  the  year  is  over.  We  cannot  let  this  spiral  of 
criminal, sectarian violence pursue its dreadful course 
at the heart of the world’s most unstable region. What 
will the situation be when we meet again next year?
Any 
the 
further  paralysis  of 
international 
community  over  Syria  is  simply  untenable.  It  was 
already true this summer, but worse was yet to come. 
Five weeks ago in the outskirts of Damascus, there was 
a new threshold of tragedy, a crime against humanity, 
and in response the stakes were raised. Today we are in 
a new situation. 
this respect is indispensable and has been underscored 
time and again by the 28 Governments of the European 
Union. 
Following  the  Secretary-General’s  report  and  the 
inventory of its arsenal provided by the Syrian regime, 
it is urgent for the Security Council, together with the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 
to take the necessary decisions to ensure the swift and 
secure destruction of Syria’s stocks of poison gas and 
nerve agents. A clear resolution of the Security Council 
would mark a turn, and I plea for its adoption. 
Eliminating  Syria’s  chemical  arsenal  is  in  itself 
a  major  step.  Potentially,  it  could  also  be  important 
for  the  wider  dynamics  in  the  region.  Clearly,  the 
conflict  wrecking  Syria  reflects  many  of  the  deep-
seated tensions rippling throughout the Middle East. It 
is  fed  by  these  tensions  and  fuels  them  as  well.  So  a 
solution  for  Syria  will  need  to  take  the  wider  picture 
into account. That is why any political opening matters 
deeply;  a  breakthrough  on  chemical  weapons  could 
start opening other doors. In the black wall of Syria’s 
doom, it will be a first crack.
Paradoxically,  there  is  more  scope  for  quiet  hope 
today  than  there  was  even  a  few  weeks  ago.  Because 
if  commitments  can  be  upheld  and  promises  kept  on 
chemical weapons, if lines of communication can reopen, 
if  we  can  find  an  agreement  within  the  international 
community and at the Security Council — if we can do 
all this on chemical weapons, then chances are we can 
do it elsewhere. 
There must be ways to open up opportunities. But 
when  new  opportunities  arise,  we  must  seize  them. 
Only  then  will  we  see  the  outlook  improve  for  Syria. 
Now is indeed the moment to work actively towards the 
“Geneva II” conference. The international community 
must  fully  engage  with  all  available  diplomatic 
means.  The  first  priority  is  to  bring  all  parties  to  the 
negotiating table. Those close to Damascus and those 
close to the Syrian opposition must do all within their 
power  to  draw  each  side  to  the  table.  The  European 
Union is ready to provide all support needed to achieve 
a political settlement. 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  diplomatic 
opening  created  in  order  to  control  and  destroy 
Syria’s chemical weapons. It is important in itself. We 
absolutely  must  avoid  a  dreadful  precedent  being  set 
on the use of chemical weapons — an abhorrent crime 
against  humanity.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
Elsewhere in the region too, new opportunities must 
and can be seized, not least in the Middle East peace 
process, where prospects for progress look better than 
they  have  for  some  time.  All  parties  are  returning  to 
the negotiating table with renewed seriousness. For the 
European Union, the parameters are clear. Palestine and 
34/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
Israel must be able to fulfil their legitimate aspirations 
as two States living side by side in peace and security. 
Now both parties must seize the moment. 
Syria  eventually  find  justice  and  ensuring  that  there 
is no impunity and that individual perpetrators of war 
crimes are held accountable. 
We  also  hope  that  the  expectations  currently 
building  around  the  new  Iranian  leadership  will 
translate into concrete steps in the interest of regional 
stability  and  for  the  nuclear  talks,  where  all  efforts 
to find a negotiated solution, through the work of the 
E3+3  led  by  High  Representative  Catherine  Ashton, 
have  the  European  Union’s  full  support.  Both  these 
developments  —  with  Israel  and  Palestine  and  with 
Iran  —  can  be  mutually  reinforcing  with  what  is 
currently  happening  around  Syria;  there,  all  must  be 
done to forge the path to a political solution. 
Once the “Geneva II” conference starts, we have to 
be honest with ourselves. It will not be easy — ending 
a war never is. It will require political will and a real 
sense of compromise. But we must recognize that the 
cost  of  hesitating,  of  not  engaging,  would  be  much 
higher,  and  not  only  for  the  people  of  Syria.  Every 
day  counts.  With  every  day  of  unforgivable  violence, 
bitterness  and  trauma  go  deeper,  radicalization  and 
warlordism gain ground, hatred and despair win. Every 
day, reconciliation in Syria and around Syria becomes 
harder. 
We  in  Europe  know  that  reconciliation  is  the 
hardest  thing.  The  countries  of  our  continent  agreed 
to  live  peacefully  together  only  after  many  wars,  and 
many  civil  wars,  with  huge  numbers  of  victims  —  a 
price we never want others to have to pay. And we know 
reconciliation  is  even  harder  inside  a  country  than 
between countries. No longer waging war is one thing; 
living again together is quite another. 
Syria  —  as  a  country  and  a  nation  —  is  being 
destroyed  beyond  recognition.  It  will  take  time, 
courage and perseverance to build an inclusive, united, 
democratic  Syria,  where  all  Syrians  can  feel  they 
belong and where all share a common future regardless 
of  their  identity  and  regardless  of  their  religion.  The 
promise of the Arab Spring must be met in Syria too, 
just  as  it  must  in  Egypt  and  beyond.  At  heart,  it  is  a 
shared yearning for democracy, for tolerance, for social 
justice — a powerful message in which we still believe. 
But on this long path, the Syrians will need all the 
help they can get, just as others before, including we in 
Europe, received support when mending their nations. 
The  United  Nations  can  play  an  important  role  in 
helping the country to re-establish unity and in helping 
We Europeans are ready to play our part in helping 
Syria to rebuild its nation, just as we are engaged today 
on the ground in the humanitarian effort in Syria and in 
the countries to which refugees have flown, not least in 
Lebanon and Jordan, where the situation is extremely 
worrying.  Our  countries  and  institutions  are  working 
closely  with  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  to  bring  food,  protection  and  shelter,  as 
well as medical help and education. By far the biggest 
aid provider for Syria, jointly we have already provided 
€1.8 billion — some $2.4 billion — and we know that 
more will be needed.
(spoke in French)
We  do  so  because  Europe  is  ready  to  continue  to 
play its role in the world. To many countries, whether in 
Africa, Latin America or Asia or from the Mediterranean 
to the Caspian, the European Union is a faithful partner 
in development, peace and security, for the Millennium 
Development Goals and world propserity through open 
trade. We are a strong partner in the fight against the 
extremism and barbarism of which the events in Kenya, 
Pakistan and Iraq are recent and tragic manifestations.
Despite  the  financial  crisis  that  is  testing  our 
economies, we do not disengage from our responsibilities 
in the world. Despite the crisis, we have maintained all 
European  funding  for  development  and  humanitarian 
action  in  our  common  European  budget,  even  as  we 
reduce  its  size.  Despite  the  crisis,  we  maintain  our 
political  and  financial  commitment  against  climate 
change in Europe and the world, and we will lend our 
full support to the international conference in Paris in 
2015.
Indeed,  despite  the  crisis,  the  European  Union 
launched  no  fewer  than  five  new  European  civilian 
or military missions over the past two years aimed at 
supporting reconstruction in Mali and South Sudan and 
re-establishing security in the Sahel and along Libya’s 
borders  and  off  the  coast  of  Somalia.  Moreover,  in 
2013 we renewed operational mandates in Afghanistan, 
Georgia  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
In  crisis  and  conflict  areas,  the  European  presence 
on  the  ground  is  composed  of  doctors,  paramedics, 
agronomists and engineers; it also includes magistrates 
and police and military personnel — men and women 
who assist their local counterparts in efforts to stabilize 
13-48557
35/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
a country, re-establish order and the rule of law, restore 
the sense of justice and build confidence in the future.
(spoke in English)
Europe  is  not  disengaging,  despite  the  economic 
difficulties  that  the  past  few  years  have  brought.  The 
global financial crisis, which started in this very city 
five years ago, shook Europe and brought forth global 
imbalances  that  we  have  worked  hard  to  address.  We 
are putting our house in order and expect others to do 
so  too.  Internal  imbalances  need  to  be  corrected  and 
structural  reforms  pursued  in  countries  all  across  the 
globe. For us, the results are starting to show. Today the 
eurozone  is  in  better  financial  shape  than  12  months 
ago. The existential threat to the euro area is over, and 
we  are  now  focusing  fully  on  improving  prospects 
for  employment  and  growth.  We  have  launched  far-
reaching efforts, focused on the long term. It will take 
time before results show, in terms of strong economic 
growth and jobs, but once they start doing so, as they are 
now, they will be longer lasting. Next year, economic 
growth is projected for all but one of our 28 countries.
Our political will to preserve Europe’s unity cannot 
be  underestimated —  we  have  shown  it  over  the  past 
five years — for, ultimately, it is a political project that 
unites us: to bring together countries; to bring together 
people.
(spoke in French)
In the month of September 2013, here in New York, 
the  international  community  can  and  must  make  a 
comeback. It is our common responsibility, shared by 
all  of  us  present  here  today,  to  translate  the  positive 
signs into concrete progress for peace and prosperity. 
I  therefore  call  for  negotiation,  dialogue  and  the 
conclusion  of  international  agreements  based  on  the 
conviction  —  which  is  at  the  very  foundation  of  this 
Organization  —  that  international  political  progress 
happens  through  the  free  exchange  of  ideas  among 
countries.
That  holds  true  for  Syria,  with  regard  to  both 
chemical  weapons  and  the  “Geneva  II”  conference.  It 
holds  true  for  the  Middle  East  peace  process  and  for 
the  nuclear  talks  with  Iran.  But  it  also  holds  true  for 
all the other great global challenges. It is from here in 
New York that a new momentum can and must emerge 
for the important upcoming global meetings on climate 
change, in Warsaw in November, on free trade in Bali 
in December, or on financial regulation at the Group of 
20 in Brisbane next year. To exchange words that bring 
about action is itself an act of hope, and it is precisely 
hope that we need.
(spoke in English)
Hope is in our hands.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
the 
European Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al Mubarak Al Hamad 
Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the State of 
Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al  Mubarak  Al  Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh  Jaber  Al  Mubarak 
Al  Hamad  Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
His Highness Sheikh Al Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in 
Arabic): At the outset, it is with pleasure that I extend, 
on behalf of the Government and people of the State of 
Kuwait,  our  sincere  congratulations  to  Mr.  Ashe  and 
to his country, Antigua and Barbuda, upon his election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth session. We are certain that his vast experience 
in international affairs will enable him to conduct the 
deliberations  of  this  session  wisely  and  ably,  and  we 
wish  him  success  in  that  endeavour.  We  extend  our 
thanks  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  for  his  great  efforts  as 
President at the previous session. 
I should also like to pay tribute to the tremendous 
and tireless efforts by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
in leading the Organization and disseminating its lofty 
message and in seeking to maintain international peace 
and  security,  in  fulfilment  of  the  aspirations  of  the 
States and peoples of the world for a better world that 
guarantees a life of dignity for all human beings.
The State of Kuwait condemns the acts of terrorism 
committed in a shopping centre in Nairobi on Saturday, 
36/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
21 September. We extend our sincerest condolences to 
the people and Government of Kenya and to the families 
of  the  victims.  We  also  underscore  again  our  support 
for Bahrain and all of the measures being undertaken 
there to strengthen security.
The maintenance of regional and international peace 
and  security  occupies  a  position  of  great  importance 
among the priorities of the foreign policy of the State 
of  Kuwait,  based  on  its  principles  and  objectives,  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  provisions  of 
international law, which call for the building of bridges 
of  confidence,  good-neighbourly  relations,  mutual 
respect  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States,  as  well  as  for  the  promotion  of  the  concepts 
of  peaceful  coexistence  and  the  pursuit  of  peaceful 
settlements to conflicts and disputes.
the  adoption  of 
In November 2012, the State of Kuwait celebrated 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
its 
Constitution,  which  was  the  result  of  a  distinctive 
experience  reflecting  relations  between  ruler  and 
subject.  It  evolved  in  a  historically  seamless  manner 
into  a  democratic  mechanism 
involving  popular 
participation.  That  process  has  embodied  the  essence 
and values of political growth based on a commitment 
to  working  for  peace,  as  well  as  developing  and 
strengthening  relations  with  neighbouring  countries 
in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  mutual  respect, 
common interests and rising above the wounds of the 
past in order to chart a better future for the region and 
the world.
In  that  context,  I  would  highlight  our  bilateral 
relations with the Republic of Iraq and to commend the 
efforts of the Iraqi Government to fulfil its international 
commitments to the State of Kuwait, in implementation 
of  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  Our 
bilateral  relations  have  developed  in  positive  and 
tangible  ways  through  communications  at  the  highest 
level  between  the  leadership  of  both  countries.  We 
have overcome our past differences and are looking to 
the  future  to  strengthen  and  develop  future  bilateral 
relations for the welfare and interests of the peoples of 
both countries.
We  also  look  forward  to  genuine  cooperation 
with the Republic of Iraq in order to find the remains 
of  missing  Kuwaitis  and  third-country  nationals  and 
undertake  a  serious  search  for  the  national  archives 
of the State of Kuwait, in implementation of Security 
Council  resolution  2107  (2013).  That  resolution  was 
adopted following the understanding reached to transfer 
follow-up  responsibility  for  these  matters  from  the 
High-level Coordinator on the issue of the repatriation 
or return of all Kuwaiti and third-country nationals or 
their remains to the United Nations Assistance Mission 
for  Iraq.  In  this  regard,  we  commend  the  efforts  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  his  concern  to  accelerate 
the  closure  of  these  two  issues,  discover  the  fate  of 
the remaining missing persons and put an end to their 
families’ suffering.
More than two and a half years have passed since 
the eruption of the crisis in Syria. This crisis is more 
than a humanitarian disaster; it is fast approaching the 
definition of a catastrophe, with the increasing numbers 
of  victims  and  missing  persons,  both  internally  and 
externally,  and  the  recurring  scenes  of  bloodshed, 
violence,  destruction,  oppression  and  violation  of 
the  most  basic  principles  and  values  of  humankind. 
The scale of the crisis has become an obstacle to any 
possible solution that could contain it, despite the great 
and continued efforts at the regional and international 
levels.  The  Security  Council  has  been  faced  with  a 
historic  and  decisive  responsibility:  to  start  taking 
serious and tangible steps to ensure solutions that can 
guarantee  an  end  to  the  bloodshed  of  the  brotherly 
Syrian  people,  achieve  their  demands  and  restore 
security and stability in their country.
In January 2013, in response to the suffering of the 
Syrian  people  owing  to  the  exacerbation  of  the  crisis 
and  its  destructive  consequences,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
hosted  an  international  donors  conference  to  support 
the  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria.  This  conference 
achieved  the  desired  results,  and  pledges  surpassed 
the targeted amount of $1.5 billion, of which the State 
of  Kuwait  contributed  $300  million.  This  amount  has 
been disbursed in full to a number of United Nations 
bodies and agencies, which converted it into emergency 
relief assistance to the Syrian people, inside and outside 
Syria.  The  State  of  Kuwait  would  like  to  thank  all 
countries  that  participated  in  the  donors  conference. 
Their  participation  reflected  their  care  and  concern 
regarding  the  deteriorating  humanitarian  situation  in 
Syria.
We all recognize that the maintenance of peace and 
security is the key that opens the doors to a dignified 
life,  prosperity  and  human  creativity.  This  is  because 
factors such as development, in all its economic, social, 
environmental,  political  and  cultural  aspects,  cannot 
13-48557
37/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
take  place  when  peace  and  security  are  lacking  or 
ebbing.
Turning to the Middle East region, Palestine is still 
facing chronic challenges that have disrupted the vision 
of  a  future  based  on  development  and  regional  and 
international  cooperation.  The  political  and  security 
conditions  in  the  region  have  also  been  disrupted  by 
the  lack  of  confidence  created  by  Israel’s  continued 
policy  of  building  illegal  settlements  on  occupied 
Palestinian lands, its continued siege of the Gaza Strip 
and the detention of thousands of Palestinians and their 
imprisonment in subhuman conditions, in contravention 
of  the  most  basic  rules  of  international  humanitarian 
law.  Such  practices  reached  their  peak  after  Palestine 
received Observer State status in the Organization.
In this regard, we reiterate that only the international 
community will be able to find the difficult formula for 
peace. We value in this respect the ongoing efforts of 
the United States of America to achieve a breakthrough 
in the peace process and hope that persistent efforts and 
pressure on Israel will make it accept the resolutions of 
international legitimacy.
At  the  regional  level,  concerning  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme, the State of Kuwait supports the ongoing 
efforts  to  peacefully  resolve  this  issue  in  a  manner  a 
that  will  preserve  the  right  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  and  all  countries  in  the  region  to  use  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes under the supervision and 
monitoring of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA).  We  also  call  upon  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  to  cooperate  fully  with  international  efforts  and 
work  on  implementing  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions. We also call on Iran to cooperate with the 
IAEA and implement its resolutions to find a definitive 
solution to this crisis, which had cast it shadow on this 
region for many years, given rise to doubts and created 
an atmosphere of instability and tension.
This  year,  the  State  of  Kuwait  celebrated  the 
fiftieth anniversary of its membership in this enduring 
Organization. Ever since then, and driven by its belief 
in the importance of common international action, it has 
sought to provide highly effective support to many of 
the agencies, bodies and entities of the United Nations 
system. This is particularly true in view of the growth 
and  increase  in  challenges  facing  the  Organization  at 
all  levels  and  putting  the  international  community, 
represented by the United Nations, to the test, a test of 
international will and global partnership in facing these 
challenges.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) represented a major shift in the ability 
of  the  United  Nations  to  mobilize  the  global  will  to 
eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development, 
thus  clearly  expressing  how  ambitious  the  will  of  the 
international community really is and the feasibility of 
this global partnership.
However,  major  new  challenges  have  emerged 
that are related either to security disruptions resulting 
from  instability  and  the  violations  of  human  rights 
that  accompany  them,  or  to  the  steady  environmental 
deterioration  that  threatens  our  world,  together  with 
other serious and urgent challenges. This requires the 
international community to take up the inevitable task 
of rethinking our preparations for a comprehensive and 
ambitious development plan. 
We must complement the efforts aimed at achieving 
the MDGs by formulating new goals and incorporating 
them in the post-2015 development plan. This will enable 
us  to  take  a  quantum  leap  towards  a  renewed  global 
partnership  that  will  complete  the  process  under  way 
on the scientific bases of the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution 55/2) and the principles and outcome of the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) held in Brazil. It should help 
our peoples, to whom those goals represent the hope of 
creating an ideal world and a better life, particularly in 
the least developed countries or those still recovering 
from  wars  and  conflicts.  In  this  respect,  we  refer  to 
the importance of the international community paying 
careful  attention  to  supporting  the  foundations  of 
development in order to achieve security and stability 
in Somalia and Afghanistan.
While 
the  State  of  Kuwait 
is  considered  a 
developing  country,  it  has  been  independent  since 
1961  and  given  a  great  deal  of  attention  to  providing 
financial  and  material  assistance  to  the  developing 
and least developed countries, through many different 
mechanisms and initiatives. The Kuwait Fund for Arab 
Economic Development is a central Kuwaiti institution 
firmly  committed  to  implementing  its  promises  and 
policies on international cooperation and assistance to 
needy people by on the ground. Since its establishment, 
and having outgrown its regional Arab scope, the Fund 
has expanded its activities and development assistance 
to  Asian,  African  and  Central  and  Latin  American 
countries.
38/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  provided 
provisional  funding  of  $500  million  to  the  Republic 
of  Yemen  for  development  projects  in  the  2012-2014 
provisional  programme.  The  contribution 
seeks 
to  support  a  peaceful  transition  of  power  pursuant 
to  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  initiative  and  its 
Implementation  Mechanism,  which  are  aimed  at 
ending  the  crisis  in  Yemen,  re-establishing  security 
and stability there, and rehabilitating the development 
sectors  in  order  to  fulfil  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
the Yemeni people to live in peace and security through 
the consolidation of democracy and good governance.
The  State  of  Kuwait,  through  its  great  interest  in 
promoting and intensifying regional and international 
multilateral  activities  by  reviewing  cooperation  and 
coordination measures in many important and political 
fields,  has  hosted  many  regional  and  international 
summits, meetings and conferences. All haved focused 
on  a  multiplicity  of  issues,  challenges,  hopes  and 
aspirations and supported initiatives aimed at creating 
better conditions for the peoples of the region and the 
world.
In  order 
to  expand 
that  approach,  built  on 
coordination  and  a  spirit  of  entrepreneurship,  in 
November  the  State  of  Kuwait  will  host  the  third 
Arab-African  Summit  under  the  theme  “Partners 
in  Development  and  Investment”.  We  hope 
that 
this  initiative  will  achieve  results  that  deepen  the 
foundations  of  Arab-African  cooperation  and  open 
new  horizons  in  the  name  of  stability,  development 
and  cooperation  between  the  people  and  countries  of 
these two regions. The State of Kuwait will also host 
the thirty-fourth session of the Supreme Council of the 
Cooperation  Council  for  the  Arab  States  of  the  Gulf 
in  December,  as  well  as  the  twenty-fifth  Summit  of 
League of Arab States in March 2014.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  the  commitment  of  the 
State of Kuwait to the international multilateral system 
and to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations, as well as its belief in the importance 
that  all  States  fulfil  the  obligations  to  which  they 
have  committed 
international  agreements  and 
conferences.  That  will  help  in  the  search  for  just  and 
equitable solutions to the global threats and challenges 
confronting us in order to achieve the lofty objective of 
maintaining international peace and security.
in 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Kuwait for the statement he has just made.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al  Mubarak  Al  Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Enrico Letta, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Italy
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Italy.
Mr.  Enrico  Letta,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The Acting President: I have a great pleasure in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Enrico Letta, President 
of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Letta (Italy): With an end to the global crisis 
finally  within  reach,  it  is  imperative  to  make  growth 
and  development  our  first  priority  today.  In  the  past 
10  years,  remarkable  progress  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has  been  made.  But  we 
have to work harder. We need to empower individuals 
and communities and increase the capacity of economic 
and social systems to adapt to the rapid changes of our 
complex world.
With regard to the post-2015 development agenda, 
we should address the root causes of the ills afflicting 
our world rather than limit ourselves to the side effects. 
Sustainable  development,  in  line  with  the  outcomes 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  is  the  best  possible  antidote.  In  that 
conviction, Italy co-facilitated the establishment of the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, 
with  universal  membership.  We  are  also  in  favour  of 
reinforcing  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  of 
a  partial  reform  of  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme.
The  promotion  of  sustainable  development  goes 
hand in hand with the spread of democratic principles. 
We are in favour of the convergence of the sustainable 
development  goals  and  the  MDGs  after  2015.  But 
development  cannot  be  simply  reduced  to  economic 
growth  and  statistics.  We  must  go  beyond  gross 
domestic  product  and  pay  adequate  attention  to  the 
more comprehensive notion of “quality of life”. 
Special  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  role  of 
women’s rights and gender equality. Although women 
13-48557
39/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
cultivate more than half the food grown in the world, they 
represent two thirds of the people who live in poverty 
and  suffer  from  hunger.  More  female  participation  in 
the global economy means more equality and growth.
fundamental human rights of immigrants and prosecute 
criminals  who  engage  in  human  trafficking.  At  the 
same time, we have fostered international cooperation 
with the countries of origin and of transit.
As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Organization  (A/68/1)  notes,  in  the  past  13  years 
gains  have  been  made  in  the  fight  against  poverty, 
but  despite  these  tangible  improvements  one  in  eight 
persons worldwide still suffers from malnutrition. Food 
security should be a priority area of action. It combines 
the  need  to  act  locally  and  globally.  It  incorporates 
some  of  today’s  most  crucial  issues:  a  sustainable 
relationship  between  consumption  and  production, 
energy efficiency, and more.
Italy is making a specific contribution to the issue 
of food security through Expo 2015 in Milan. The theme 
is “Feeding the planet: energy for life”. More than 130 
countries  have  so  far  agreed  to  participate.  Italy  will 
use  Expo  Milan  as  an  opportunity  to  exchange  best 
practices  on  global  sustainability  in  the  area  of  food 
security  and  nutrition.  We  intend  to  promote  new 
partnerships between the private and public sectors. As 
I underlined to the heads of the United Nations agencies 
based in Rome at a recent meeting, Italy feels that the 
time  has  come  to  launch  a  new  global  initiative  on 
food.  The  United  Nations  participation  in  Expo  2015 
is  consequently  of  great  importance.  An  integrated 
approach  to  development  also  involves  a  focus  on  its 
social dimensions.
The projected rise of the world population highlights 
one of the most serious problems today. I am referring 
to  global  unemployment,  particularly  among  young 
people. This phenomenon affects every part of the world, 
including Europe and my country. We want to combine 
the measures taken at the national and European levels 
to launch our war against unemployment.
Italy  deems  it  important  to  focus  on  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprises  (SMEs),  a  true  driver  for 
employment. Such enterprises are well placed to create 
jobs for young people and contribute to social stability. 
In Europe, 85 per cent of new jobs in the private sector 
are created by SMEs. In the employment sector, great 
attention must also be given to people with disabilities.
Hundreds  of  millions  of  people  around  the  world 
become  immigrants  in  a  phenomenon  that  affects 
both developed nations and countries of origin. Italy’s 
geographic location makes it a port of entry for thousands 
of  immigrants.  At  the  national  level,  we  respect  the 
On this crucial subject, I wish to quote Pope Francis, 
who  decided  to  visit  the  small  island  of  Lampedusa 
this summer. He brought a message of support for the 
thousands of immigrants who arrive there from Africa 
every  year.  We  should  all  fight  what  he  called  the 
“globalization of indifference” and feel the suffering of 
migrants as our own.
Recognizing  that  more  needs  to  be  done  at  the 
national  and  international  levels,  we  look  forward 
to  the  second  summit  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development, to be held in 
New York this October.
Achieving 
sustainable  development 
requires 
stability,  security  and  peace.  Since  the  outbreak  of 
the  conflict  in  Syria,  the  Italian  Government  has 
underlined the importance of preserving the role of the 
United Nations as the ultimate guardian of peace. At the 
same time, we strongly condemn what has taken place 
in Syria with regard to chemical weapons. We cannot 
be  indifferent  to  blatant  violations  of  fundamental 
international rights.
Italy  invites  all  members  of  the  Security  Council 
and  other  relevant  international  stakeholders  to  spare 
no  effort  in  the  search  for  political  solutions.  That  is 
why  the  Italian  Government  welcomed  the  Geneva 
framework  for  the  elimination  of  Syrian  chemical 
weapons.  We  strongly  support  the  work  undertaken 
in  the  Security  Council  aimed  at  inducing  Syria  to 
participate in the Chemical Weapons Convention.
We  cannot  accept  the  continuous  deterioration  of 
the humanitarian situation in Syria and in neighbouring 
countries.  Once  again,  we  invite  all  the  parties 
involved  in  the  conflict  to  fully  respect  international 
humanitarian  law.  There  must  be  effective  protection 
for humanitarian assistance.
Italy  has 
intensified  humanitarian  assistance, 
particularly  for  refugees.  Italy  confirms  its  pledge 
of  $30  million  for  2013  and  intends  to  provide  even 
more  support  to  expand  the  reach  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  At  the  Group  of  20  Summit  held  in  Saint 
Petersburg, we announced our intention to implement 
new  humanitarian  and  emergency  initiatives,  for  an 
additional  $50  million.  On  Friday,  upon  my  return  to 
Rome, I will enact that measure.
40/42 
13-48557
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.8
We  will  continue  to  keep  Somalia  high  on  our 
agenda.  As  I  confirmed  to  President  Hassan  Sheikh 
Mohamud a few days ago in Rome, Italy is willing to 
help  the  Somali  authorities  in  their  efforts  to  lay  the 
foundations  of  an  effective  and  united  federal  State.
Together with Ethiopia, Italy has convened a ministerial 
meeting  of 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development Partners Forum tomorrow, 26 September, 
here in New York, to discuss Somalia.
the 
As the top contributor to Libya, Italy is supporting 
the country in its stabilization and democratic transition, 
and we remain fully committed to cooperation with the 
United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL). 
Before  the  end  of  the  year,  Italy  will  host  the  second 
international conference on Libya in Rome, which we 
are  preparing  together  with  the  Libyan  authorities, 
UNSMIL and other partners.
Italy  reiterates  its  strong  commitment  to  the 
stabilization  of  Mali  and  the  Sahel  region.  At  the 
national  level,  we  are  currently  funding  training  for 
border police in Mali and the Niger. We welcome the 
holding  of  the  next  high-level  meeting  on  the  Sahel. 
The  strategy  presented  by  the  Special  Envoy  of  the 
Secretary-General,  Romano  Prodi,  is  a  good  example 
of increasing efforts and resources.
Italy is the seventh-largest contributor to the general 
budget  of  the  United  Nations.  Since  2006,  despite 
financial constraints, we have been the top contributor 
of  United  Nations  peacekeepers  among  Western 
countries.  We  are  demonstrating  our  commitment 
to  peace  and  stability  through  our  participation  in 
10  different  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
worldwide,  from  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Middle 
East to Africa and Afghanistan.
Italy 
is  engaged 
in 
international 
initiatives 
related to peace and security, such as the Arms Trade 
Treaty, which we have already ratified. Other relevant 
initiatives include the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy and the United Nations Convention 
against Transnational Organized Crime.
Italy  believes  that  respect  for  human  rights  is 
fundamental  to  peaceful  coexistence  among  nations. 
Our  foreign  policy  will  continue  to  focus  on  social 
and humanitarian affairs and the protection of human 
rights. Wherever human rights are at risk, global peace 
and security are also at risk.
Italy will continue its efforts to better defend those 
most  vulnerable  to  violence  and  discrimination.  Our 
actions and our thoughts must focus on the categories 
most  at  risk:  women,  children,  religious  and  ethnic 
minorities,  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and  transgender 
persons,  human  rights  defenders  and  humanitarian 
workers.
The  recent  atrocities  in  Pakistan  once  again 
illustrate  the  importance  of  the  issue  of  religious 
tolerance.  The  General  Assembly  should  never  stop 
acting to counter religious hatred and fundamentalism.
At  the  same  time,  Italy  will  continue  to  support 
the campaign for a worldwide moratorium on the death 
penalty.
In  the  second  half  of  2014,  Italy  will  assume  the 
presidency of the European Union (EU). We want the 
EU  to  be  more  open  to  the  world.  That  means  more 
European foreign, or rather global, policy. It also means 
more trade exchanges with the rest of the world. In that 
connection, we will host the next summit of the Asia-
Europe Meeting, in Milan in October 2014.
I  am  convinced  that  a  well-governed  Europe 
can act as a global player. A good example is the EU 
enlargement  policy,  which  succeeded  in  bringing 
stability to the Balkans in a very short time. It is high 
time for the EU to rise again to assume a leading role 
on the world stage. We in Europe must act now for more 
unity and for more effective governance.
On the theme of adapting to a changing world, allow 
me to conclude by referring to reform of the Security 
Council.  As  a  leading  member  of  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus group, Italy strongly believes that Security 
Council reform is absolutely necessary. The adoption of 
any such reform, however, will require the consensus of 
a large majority of the membership. We need to update 
the  Security  Council  to  today’s  world,  increasing  its 
accountability,  transparency  and  effectiveness.  To 
bridge the gap between the different models of reform, 
all Member States should be ready to engage in the next 
round of negotiations with a higher degree of flexibility 
and openness to compromise.
We  have  many  challenges  ahead.  Italy  will 
contribute to addressing those challenges as an active 
member  of  the  international  community  within  a 
framework of reinforced global governance. We make 
that  commitment  before  the  General  Assembly,  and 
we  make  that  commitment  before  the  international 
community.
13-48557
41/42
A/68/PV.8 
25/09/2013
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Republic of Italy for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Enrico  Letta,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 2 p.m.
42/42 
13-48557
