United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
44th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 6 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.44
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 11
Sport for peace and development: building a 
peaceful and better world through sport and the 
Olympic ideal
Draft resolution (A/68/L.8)
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the Russian Federation to introduce draft resolution 
A/68/L.8.
Mr. Chernyshenko (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian): As the President of the Organizing Committee 
for  the  XXII  Olympic  Winter  Games  and  the  XI 
Paralympic Winter Games to be held in Sochi, Russia, 
in 2014 — the first time the Games have been held in 
my  country  —  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  to  the 
General Assembly a draft resolution entitled “Sport for 
peace and development: building a peaceful and better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal” (A/68/L.8).
The  draft  resolution  is  inspired  mainly  by  the 
2,000-year-old  ancient  Greek  tradition  of  calling  for 
a truce during the Olympic Games in order to ensure 
the safe passage of athletes to and from the site of the 
Games.  Together  with  an  appeal  for  a  truce  during 
the  forthcoming  Olympic  Games  in  Sochi,  the  draft 
resolution  also  calls  upon  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  to  cooperate  with  the  International 
Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic 
Committee  in  their  efforts  to  use  sport  as  a  tool  for 
reconciliation.  The  draft  resolution  welcomes  the 
United  Nations  initiative  to  designate  6  April  as 
the  International  Day  of  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace. The Olympic Games in Sochi are to become a 
symbol  of  constructive  dialogue  among  peoples.  The 
draft resolution pays a particular attention to the Sochi 
2014  cultural  and  educational  programmes  as  well  as 
peacebuilding.
Since  the  announcement  of  Russia  as  host  of  the 
Games,  a  historic  event,  we  have  set  ourselves  the 
ambitious  goal  of  conducting  innovative  Games  that 
will express the character of a new, modern Russia and 
promote sustainable positive changes. Our vision of the 
Olympic Games in Sochi has relied on the consolidation 
of the entire nation united by the Olympic dream, the 
legendary athletic traditions of Russia, and the overall 
support we have for the Olympic values of friendship, 
respect and aspiration to perfection. It is precisely that 
vision that has been driving our decisions, efforts and 
expectations on the long road to the Olympic Games.
We  can  see  already  now  how  our  goals  are 
becoming a reality. The Games in Sochi have exerted 
a  significant  influence  on  our  country  by  giving  an 
impetus,  in  particular,  to  the  development  in  Russia 
of such socially important phenomena as the volunteer 
movement, the creation of an environment accessible to 
all, and the practical implementation of the principles 
of  sustainable  development  in  accordance  with  green 
standards.
In  recent  years,  Sochi  has  become  a  venue  for 
major forums dedicated to the strengthening of peace. 
The  Generations  for  Peace  International  Camp  has 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-54989 (E)
*1354989*
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
been held in Sochi since 2010. The participants in the 
Generations  for  Peace  International  Camp  will  meet 
again during the Paralympic Games in Sochi in 2014. In 
2012, the capital of the future Olympic Games hosted a 
prestigious Forum on Sport for Peace. Representatives 
of 90 countries participated in its work. The Cultural 
Olympiad Sochi 2014, which was launched in 2010, has 
united  our  country  from  Kaliningrad  to  Vladivostok. 
For four years, tens of thousands of events have been 
held  across  Russia  for  millions  of  spectators.  The 
Cultural Olympiad is successfully fulfilling its mission 
of  preserving  and  promoting  the  cultural  wealth 
of  Russia  and  demonstrating  the  best  examples  of 
that  wealth  to  our  compatriots  and  the  guests  of  our 
country. The best that our culture has to offer will be on 
display to visitors at the Games and to the entire world 
community during the finals of the Cultural Olympiad 
in Sochi.
An  extensive  Olympic  educational  programme, 
known  as  Sochi  2014,  is  being  rolled  out.  Annually, 
Olympic classes have been attended by over 5 million 
Russian  high-school  students,  and  thematic  shifts 
dedicated  to  the  Olympic  Truce  have  been  organized 
in  summer  camps.  The  establishment  of  the  world’s 
first  Russian 
International  Olympic  University, 
offering  education  for  representatives  of  all  205 
National  Olympic  Committees,  is  the  pinnacle  of  the 
Sochi  2014  educational  programme.  The  University 
was  inaugurated  by  Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  President 
of  the  Russian  Federation.  Recently,  the  President  of 
International Olympic Committee, Mr. Thomas Bach, 
met  with  the  students  of  the  University.  The  first 
enrolment in the University included students from 15 
countries,  and  there  will  be  a  unique  opportunity  to 
put all of their learning into practice during the Sochi 
Games.
We  have  emphasized  in  the  draft  resolution  the 
importance  of  the  volunteer  movement,  both  in  the 
framework  of  the  Games  and  on  a  global  scale.  The 
Sochi Games have become a powerful catalyst for the 
emergence of the volunteer movement in Russia. Based 
on the volunteer centres located in all federal districts 
of  the  country,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Sochi  2014 
volunteers are conducting their daily work in the regions, 
helping  vulnerable  groups  within  the  population  and 
addressing  essential  social  and  environmental  issues. 
Sochi  2014  volunteer  centres  throughout  Russia  have 
already  implemented  over  3,000  volunteer  projects  of 
their own in addition to preparing for the Games.
As  a  main  consequence  of 
the  Sochi  2014 
volunteer programme, Russia has received a rating of 
8, starting practically from zero, in the World Giving 
Index  2012,  for  the  involvement  of  its  population  in 
volunteer activity. Let me note that, for the first time 
in  the  history  of  the  Olympic  Games,  the  Sochi  2014 
Organizing Committee has engaged volunteer students 
in  the  drafting  of  an  Olympic  Truce  resolution. 
Students of the Moscow State Institute of International 
Relations — future diplomats and policymakers — have 
formulated proposals for the initial draft.
The draft resolution focuses on the need to ensure 
and  protect  the  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities. 
Thanks to the Sochi Games, we have managed to make 
the standards of access to buildings and infrastructure 
an  indispensable  and  compulsory  requirement  for 
all  regions  of  Russia.  The  all-Russia  project  of  an 
accessibility  map  makes 
it  possible  for  persons 
with  disabilities  to  find  accessible  facilities  in  their 
hometowns,  allowing  them  to  become  more  actively 
involved in social life.
The  2014  Sochi  Winter  Olympics  torch  relay 
has helped to bring together all of the more than 200 
nationalities  living  in  Russia.  The  relay  started  on 
7  October  in  the  capital  of  our  homeland,  Moscow, 
and  will  be  the  longest  national  torch  relay  in  the 
history  of  the  Winter  Olympics  in  terms  of  both 
duration — 123 days — and distance covered — over 
65,000  kilometres.  The  torch  has  already  visited  the 
North Pole as part of the international research expedition 
and became a symbol of joint exploration of the Arctic 
by  all  eight  Arctic  Powers.  And  today,  at  11.14  p.m. 
New  York  time,  the  Olympic  torch  will  be  launched 
into space in the international space station and for the 
first time carried in a spacewalk. This event is one more 
step into the future, and the appearance of the Olympic 
torch in space will be a symbol of the limitlessness of 
human possibility and of the striving of athletes from 
every country to reach ever new heights in sport.
Russia  commends  the  fruitful  cooperation  among 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and  their 
contributions  to  the  drafting  of  the  text  of  this  year’s 
draft  resolution.  We  are  grateful  to  the  International 
Olympic  Committee,  the  International  Paralympic 
Committee  and  the  Special  Adviser  of  the  Secretary-
General on Sport for Development and Peace for their 
constant support. We are also grateful to the Group of 
Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  for  their 
valuable help.
2/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
There are 93 days left until the opening ceremony 
of the Sochi Olympic Games, and 121 until that of the 
Paralympic  Games.  The  Olympic  villages,  housing 
athletes  from  85  countries,  will  be  open  even  sooner, 
and  within  them  will  rise  the  walls  of  the  Olympic 
Truce,  where  the  athletes  can  leave  their  wishes.  The 
blue flags of the United Nations will be unfurled above 
the  Olympic  stadium  and  villages.  We  are  eagerly 
looking  forward  to  hosting  the  whole  world  as  our 
guests  and  will  do  everything  we  can  to  ensure  that 
the  Sochi  Olympics  are  remembered  first  of  all  as  a 
contest among the greatest athletes of the world in an 
atmosphere  of  hospitality,  intercultural  exchange  and 
mutual respect.
On  behalf  of  the  Russian  Federation,  the  city  of 
Sochi,  the  Sochi  2014  Organizing  Committee  and 
all  our  partners,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly for its attention and to ask that it support our 
draft resolution.
Ms. Singh (India): I feel honoured and privileged to 
participate in today’s debate on agenda item 11, entitled 
“Sport for peace and development: building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
India  welcomes  resolution  67/296,  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  and 
proclaiming 6 April as the International Day of Sport 
for Development and Peace. We hope that its observance 
will  help  spread  awareness  about  the  importance  of 
sport as a tool for development and peace. We are also 
happy  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/68/L.8, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  to  be  adopted  by  the 
Assembly today.
the  deliberations 
in 
We  also  welcome 
the 
third  International  Forum  on  Sport  for  Peace  and 
Development,  organized  jointly  in  June  at  United 
Nations  Headquarters  in  New  York  by  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace 
and  the  International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC).  We 
are confident that the collaboration between the United 
Nations and the IOC will lead to the integration of sport 
into  all  areas  of  development  and  peace  and  help  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
Since the dawn of human civilization, the intrinsic 
links  between  sports,  games  and  the  human  pursuit 
of  excellence  have  been  recognized.  That  pursuit  of 
excellence  through  sport  reached  its  epitome  in  the 
civilization  of  ancient  Greece,  the  progenitor  of  the 
modern Olympic movement.
In  India,  sports  and  physical  activities  have  also 
been  an  integral  part  of  our  civilization,  through  the 
practice  of  yoga  and  its  highly  evolved  system  of 
physical, mental and spiritual regimens. Yoga, as a form 
of physical and mental exercise, is now popular across 
the world. In addition, India also has a range of highly 
developed  indigenous  games  and  martial  arts.  After 
India  attained  independence  in  1947,  the  integration 
of physical education and sports into formal education 
was emphasized in our first five-year plan. A separate 
Department of Sports was subsequently set up in 1982, 
and  a  national  sports  policy  was  announced  in  1984, 
a  year  that  also  saw  the  establishment  of  the  Sports 
Authority of India, aimed at ensuring the effective and 
optimum  utilization  of  various  sports  facilities,  and 
overseeing  all  matters  pertaining  to  sports  promotion 
and management. India has encouraged the autonomous 
functioning of national sports federations, and we are 
proud to say that the Board of Control of Cricket in India 
is one of the most resourceful autonomous sports bodies 
in the world. All sectors of our society, including the 
media and the corporate sector, are actively involved in 
promoting sports.
Sport  is  a  highly  effective  tools  in  achieving 
development objectives in the areas of health, education 
and  child  development.  It  helps  generate  public 
awareness  and  inspires  broad  and  inclusive  action  in 
support  of  the  development  agenda.  It  is  heartening 
to  note  that  sport  has  been  recognized  as  one  of  the 
tools to address development challenges. We appreciate 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for 
Development and Peace, and of the Special Adviser to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace in bringing the worlds of sport and development 
closer  together.  Efforts  should  continue  to  focus  on 
sport  for  development,  and  to  root  it  in  the  United 
Nations system.
Associating  sports  personalities  with  the  United 
Nations in order to create public awareness of education, 
health  and  development 
issues,  and  promoting 
tolerance, understanding and peace within and between 
communities and cultures, is a praiseworthy endeavour. 
I would like to mention here that Indian athletes have 
also  been  associated  with  different  United  Nations 
entities — the Indian tennis star Vijay Amritraj has been 
a United Nations Messenger of Peace, and our cricketing 
13-54989
3/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
hero Sachin Tendulkar is a Goodwill Ambassador for 
the United Nations Environment Programme.
India  welcomes  the  work  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee and the International Paralympics 
Committee in promoting and strengthening a culture of 
peace based on the spirit of the Olympic Truce. I assure 
them  of  India’s  full  cooperation  and  support  in  their 
efforts to use sport as a tool to promote peace, dialogue 
and reconciliation. India also cherishes and celebrates 
the noble ideals and values of the Olympic movement, 
and  stands  committed  to  furthering  international 
fraternity,  friendship,  goodwill  and  unity.  We  believe 
that there is no better medium than sport to inculcate 
and foster the values of respect, diversity and tolerance 
across communities, civilizations and cultures.
Mr.  Wijaya  (Indonesia):  Organized  sport  enjoys 
an  honoured  tradition,  as  it  has  promoted  peaceful 
international 
interaction  among  diverse  peoples 
and  nations  competing  without  strife  and  despite 
geopolitical  differences.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
the adoption of the biannual draft resolution (A/68/L.8) 
being considered under the current agenda item, which 
showcases, inter alia, the recognition by Member States 
of the unique potential of sport to promote peace and 
development and the valuable contribution of sport in 
creating an atmosphere of tolerance and understanding 
among peoples and nations.
As we are now entering the final push towards the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  before  the  2015  deadline,  sport  can  play  an 
important  role  that  generates  broad,  inclusive  and 
committed action in support of the MDGs and make a 
meaningful difference in the life of people.
In  Indonesia,  we  have  a  Ministry  of  Youth  and 
Sports  which  is  a  Government  institution  dedicated 
to  developing  and  integrating  sport  into  our  national 
development  strategy.  The  commemoration  every 
9  September  of  the  National  Day  of  Sports  and  the 
implementation of the law on the national sport system, 
Law  No.  3  of  2005,  mark  our  deep  commitment  to 
nurturing the culture of sport within our society. The 
law on the national sport system provides a legal basis 
for, inter alia, raising awareness of the relevance of sport 
to  character-building  in  our  nation  and  galvanizing 
efforts  to  cultivate  in  young  generations  the  strong 
traits  of  discipline,  perseverance,  competitiveness, 
sportsmanship, friendship and unity. The traditions of 
the  Olympic  Truce  and  the  Olympic  ideal  need  to  be 
preserved and promoted as they can be powerful tools to 
help educate and send messages of peace, non-violence, 
fairness and tolerance to current and future generations.
We  all  share  the  aspiration  to  live  harmoniously 
in peace and prosperity. Sport is an exemplary way to 
transmit  our  shared  values  through  friendly,  peaceful 
interactions. It gives us a means to demonstrate the shared 
humanity in all of us and has a unique and strategic role 
to play in energizing the public by encouraging actions 
at the local, regional and international level in support 
of the development agenda. With its power to attract, 
inspire and mobilize people, sport can be an effective 
tool for conveying crucial messages on matters related 
to  education,  conflict  prevention,  post-disaster  relief 
and  normalization  of  life,  economic  development,  as 
well as on issues related to the environment.
Meanwhile, at the international level, Indonesia is 
honoured to take part in the Group of Friends of Sport 
for Peace and Development initiative and to co-sponsor 
today’s  draft  resolution  with  a  view  to  fostering  the 
culture of sport as an integral part of our life.
Finally,  as  highlighted  by  the  draft  resolution, 
Indonesia  wishes  to  underscore  the  importance  of 
partnerships  among  related  stakeholders,  undertaking 
concrete  actions  at  the  local,  national,  regional  and 
international  levels,  and  promoting  and  strengthening 
a culture of peace based on the spirit of sport and the 
Olympic Truce. In that regard, Indonesia reiterates its 
ongoing  support  for  advancing  cooperation  through 
sport for peace and development.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke 
in  French):  On 
6 February 2014, the United Nations flag will again fly 
at the Olympic site, side by side with the five rings and 
the  Russian  flag,  when  the  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Winter Games open in Sochi.
Our  consideration  of  agenda  item  11,  “Sport 
for  peace  and  development:  building  a  peaceful  and 
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, has 
special  and  symbolic  significance  this  year  because 
it  allows  Monaco  to  celebrate  a  moving  anniversary. 
Twenty  years  ago,  on  25  October  1993,  the  General 
Assembly adopted for the first time a resolution entitled 
“Observance of the Olympic Truce” (resolution 48/11) 
following an initiative of the Organization of African 
Unity  presented  by  Egypt.  That  was  the  first  draft 
resolution that the Principality of Monaco, which had 
become the 183rd Member State of the Organization a 
few months earlier, had co-authored.
4/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
Since  then,  and  during  the  then-presidency  of 
Juan  Antonio  Samaranch,  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC)  were  able 
to  forge  an  increasingly  fruitful  partnership.  That 
strong  link  was  affirmed  when  the  IOC  was  granted 
observer status in the General Assembly in 2009, under 
the presidency of Mr. Jacques Rogge, whom I wish to 
commend once again for his dynamic accomplishments 
oriented towards the inclusion of sport for development 
and peace. I am also absolutely certain that Mr. Thomas 
Bach’s vast knowledge of the Committee will allow it 
push  the  shared  action  of  our  two  organizations  even 
further. I can therefore strongly reaffirm the full support 
of my delegation for the work of the Committee, in full 
compliance  with  the  unwavering  commitment  to  the 
Olympic ideal of His Serene Highness Prince Albert II, 
IOC member and five-time Olympian.
As  resolution  67/296,  declaring  the  International 
Day  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  recently 
reaffirmed,  the  mission  and  role  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee — which are to place sport in the 
service of humankind, promote a peaceful society and a 
healthy lifestyle, align sport with culture and education, 
and preserve human dignity — have always been held 
in  our  highest  esteem.  In  that  context,  it  is  therefore 
natural that the International Olympic Truce Centre in 
Athens should be a key player in promoting the ideals 
of peace, tolerance, understanding and mutual respect, 
under the banner of the Olympic truce.
The Olympic Games always arouse strong feelings 
and  great  joy,  despite  ongoing  conflicts.  The  noble 
mission  of  the  Olympic  Truce  during  the  Games 
reminds  us  of  our  lofty  commitment  to  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Olympic Charter. On another level, like any sports 
event intended both for professionals and amateurs and 
young people, the Games also promote values intrinsic 
to  the  exercise  of  outdoing  oneself,  respecting  others 
and bringing cultures closer together.
That  focus  inspires  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Sport for 
Development and Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke. Here, I 
welcome the initiative of the youth leadership camps, 
the  seventh  of  which  took  place  from  23  August  to 
2 September in Gwangju, Republic of Korea, bringing 
together young people from all regions of the world to 
share,  in  the  context  of  sport,  a  unique  experience  of 
learning from and understanding others.
Allow  me  also  to  mention  the  importance  of  the 
Universiades, organized by the International University 
Sports  Federation,  which,  like  the  Olympic  Games, 
take place every two years in summer and winter, the 
latest of which was held in Kazan in July. Some 10,000 
university  athletes  thus  carried  the  flags  of  the  162 
participating countries. 
The many partnerships among the United Nations, 
the United Nations Office on Sport for Development and 
Peace,  the  International  Olympic  Committee  and  the 
organizers of the Olympic host countries are promising. 
They encourage us to seek all possible contributions to 
the great scheme that inspires us, namely, to achieve a 
peaceful and better world.
The peoples of the world have never been so able to 
travel, meet, engage and fraternize. The arrival of the 
Olympic torch in the host country is always a moving 
moment. Following its arrival in Moscow on 6 October, 
it has now embarked on one of the longest odysseys of 
its history before being set alight in Sochi on 7 February 
next  year.  It  will  have  travelled  no  less  than  65,000 
kilometres in 123 days from Olympia to Moscow, from 
Kaliningrad  to  Anadyr,  from  Vladivostok  to  Lake 
Baikal  and  the  Black  Sea,  and  even  to  space,  as  we 
heard this morning.
But travelling through such a vast area must be more 
than a mere statistic. That unique unifying momentum 
has been fully embraced by the host country, as reflected 
in the unparalleled number of 14,000 relay runners who 
will have participated in the torch’s journey.
For  all  participants,  spectators  and  fans,  the 
Olympic Games are not confined to competition or to 
seeking a record. Each Olympian takes part in a huge 
common  human  adventure  with  thousands  of  other 
athletes  of  all  outlooks  and  cultures.  Sport  is  above 
all  a  human  voyage  within  oneself,  on  the  one  hand, 
to surpass one’s own limits and towards others, on the 
other hand, as the main aim is not necessarily to win 
but to share in respecting others.
I  congratulate  the  delegation  of  the  Russian 
Federation  on  the  draft  resolution  and  join  millions 
of  spectators  who  are  keenly  awaiting  the  opening  of 
the winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in the hope 
that, in line with the Greek tradition for thousands of 
years now, weapons will fall silent. 
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express our appreciation for the 
13-54989
5/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  sport 
and the work of the United Nations Office on Sport for 
Development and Peace. I would also like to commend 
the efforts of Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special Adviser to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  and  to  convey  to  him  our  support  for  peace 
and  development  throughout  the  world  by  means  of 
sport. I also thank Mr. Thomas Bach, President of the 
International Olympic Committee. I am convinced that 
he will strengthen the United Nations partnership with 
sport.
Sport shows how peace can be strengthened because 
it has no geographical or social boundaries. Sport is a 
way  to  strengthen  social  and  economic  integration  at 
all levels. It is also a way to develop friendship through 
non-violence, tolerance and justice. Through sport, we 
can resolve problems that arise from crises since it is a 
way of bringing people together.
In  view  of  the  importance  of  sport,  the  United 
Nations  believes  that  it  can  improve  and  promote 
solidarity  among  peoples.  Given  the  importance  of 
sport  and  physical  activity,  the  connection  between 
sport and human rights is evident. It helps us to meet 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  as  mentioned  by 
the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Sport 
for Development and Peace.
Sport  can  also  be  a  way  to  promote  peace  and 
security.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  representative  of 
the  Russian  Federation  for 
strengthening solidarity through sport and the efforts in 
that regard. I express my appreciation for the importance 
that Member States give to sport and its place in national 
policymaking and international policies. It is a way to 
strengthen the bases for education and health.
to 
thank  and 
Allow  me  also 
reiterate  my 
congratulations  to  the  Government  of  the  United 
Kingdom  on  its  successful  thirtieth  Olympic  Games 
and  fourteenth  Paralympics.  That  helps  to  strengthen 
the  culture  of  peace  and  harmony  in  the  spirit  of  the 
Olympic  Truce.  It  can  also  to  act  as  a  catalyst  for 
friendship  and  the  spirit  of  sportsmanship  among 
athletes whatever their religion or belief.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  all  Member  States  for 
the Truce and for declaring 6 April International Day 
of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  Allow  me  also 
to express my support to Brazil for hosting the World 
Cup and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016. I 
would also like to congratulate Japan, which will host 
the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020. 
As I said earlier, in order to foster that momentum 
and to make sport a means for promoting the universal 
principle  of  international  solidarity,  I  congratulate 
the  Russian  Federation  on  the  draft  resolution  that  it 
introduced,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal” (A/68/L.8). 
The  draft  resolution  affirms  respect  for  the  Olympic 
Truce  and  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Olympic Movement, namely, friendship among peoples, 
harmony, non-violence and non-discrimination. I hope 
that all Member States will support the draft resolution, 
thereby sending a strong message to all those that work 
for the noble practice of sport and greatly encouraging 
every athlete. 
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We  are  grateful  for  the  presentation  given  on  behalf 
of  the  Organizing  Committee  of  the  Sochi  Winter 
Olympics, which we know will be a great success.
Sport is an important activity for human development 
and cooperation at the national and international levels. 
Cuba believes that sport is a practice that strengthens 
solidarity  and  friendship  among  peoples  as  essential 
components  of  the  promotion  of  peace,  development 
and cooperation among nations.
Following the triumph of the Cuban Revolution in 
1959,  sport  was  no  longer  an  exclusive  pursuit  in  our 
country and became a right enjoyed by all. In order to 
guarantee that right, we have promoted a pedagogical 
system  that  incorporates  physical  education  as  an 
integral component of education at all stages, which has 
led to significant successes in regional and international 
competitions.  At  the  London  2012  Olympic  Games, 
Cuba,  though  only  a  small  developing  country,  took 
sixteenth place in the medals table. Cuba also ranked 
fifteenth in the Paralympic Games this year, achieving 
its best-ever performance with nine gold medals.
In Cuba, we work to provide sports training from 
an  early  age,  which  allows  us  to  promote  talented 
individuals who go on to become distinguished athletes. 
At  the  same  time,  we  reject  the  notion  that  money  is 
the  only  reward  of  athletic  activity,  and  we  therefore 
denounce the theft of talented athletes from developing 
countries.
For  years,  the  Cuban  sports  movement,  headed 
by  the  Cuban  Olympic  Committee  and  the  National 
6/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
Institute of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation, 
has  pursued  collaboration  with  several  developing 
countries.  Through  bilateral  agreements,  Cuban 
technicians,  teachers  and  coaches  share  their  sports 
training  methods  with  many  developing  countries, 
thereby  helping  to  attain  even  better  sporting  results 
and  raise  even  further  the  popularity  of  sport.  This 
contributes  ultimately  to  strengthening  the  bonds  of 
friendship among peoples.
Cuba has also made its Institute of Sports Medicine 
and anti-doping laboratory available to the countries of 
the South in order to contribute to the fight against the 
scourge of drugs and and cheating that, in exceptional 
cases,  corrupts  athletes  and  impedes  fair  play.  The 
International  School  of  Physical  Education  and  Sport 
in  Havana  trains  professionals  whose  core  values  are 
solidarity and respect for human dignity.
Cuba congratulates the city of Sochi in the Russian 
Federation on hosting the XXII Olympic Winter Games 
in February 2014 and commends the work carried out 
so far. We wish the Games all the success they deserve. 
Moreover,  we  trust  that  the  2016  Olympics  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro, Brazil, will be a success for all of the peoples 
of  the  South,  and  for  those  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean in particular.
The  choice  of  Sochi  and  Rio  de  Janeiro  to  host 
the  Olympic  Games  is  also  due  recognition  of  the 
efforts devoted and results achieved by the peoples and 
Governments  of  both  countries  in  terms  of  economic 
and social development for the benefit of their citizens 
and others who live on their territories. They can count 
on our respect and support in their mission to ensure the 
success of these celebrations of sport and friendship.
the  need 
We  emphasize 
to  further  develop 
international  cooperation  and  solidarity  through  the 
Olympic  ideal.  Cuba  urges  greater  investment  in 
education, health, culture and sport projects by drawing 
on the billions of dollars currently spent on weapons. A 
great deal could be done for the right to development of 
millions of people around the world with the resources 
available. All that is needed is political will.
Finally,  Cuba  reiterates  its  decision  to  continue 
sharing its greatest sporting asset — the human capital 
created  by  the  revolution.  A  genuine  commitment  to 
the  Olympic  ideal,  our  efforts  to  realize  international 
law and solidarity, and the ongoing struggle for social 
justice  continue  to  guide  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
people. Sport will continue to be a major component of 
our efforts for the betterment of humankind.
Mr. Spinellis (Greece): Dating back to the eighth 
century B.C., the ancient Olympic Games were meant 
to  be  a  force  for  peace  and  solidarity  among  ancient 
Greek city-States, which declared a truce for a period 
of seven days before the beginning and seven days after 
the end of the Games. Before every Olympiad, heralds 
in  the  city  of  Elis  announced  the  truce,  which  was 
implemented as a cessation of hostilities, a prohibition 
of entry into the city of military forces, a pause of any 
legal  dispute  and  the  suspension  of  the  imposition  of 
death  penalties.  The  ultimate  goal  was  the  peaceful 
conduct  of  the  Games  by  protecting  the  city  from 
invasion and ordering individuals and State authorities 
to refrain from interfering with the safe passage of the 
athletes.  As  Thucydides  claims,  if  States  violated  the 
truce, their athletes were banned from participating.
The concept of the Olympic Truce once born was 
carried out for a period of 1,200 years. Greeks saw in 
the  Games  a  chance  to  replace  conflict  with  friendly 
competition.  This  aspect  of  Olympism  was  of  great 
importance to Baron Pierre de Coubertin, who revived 
the Olympic Games as a firm believer in their potential 
to  advance  international  understanding  and  promote 
world  peace.  His  initiative  paved  the  way  for  the 
embodiment  of  the  ideal  of  the  Olympic  Truce  to  the 
modern Olympic Games.
In today’s world, emphasis on Olympic peace has 
become a major feature of modern Olympic ideology. 
The  foundation  of  the  International  Olympic  Truce 
Centre,  for  the  creation  of  which  Greece  actively 
toiled alongside the International Olympic Committee, 
gave  new  dynamism  to  the  pursuit  of  peace.  Most 
importantly, the inclusion of the Olympic Truce in the 
United  Nations  framework  for  the  first  time  through 
resolution 48/11, in 1993, granted a distinct role to the 
ideal,  given  that  the  United  Nations  and  the  Olympic 
movement share common values and goals. We should 
bear in mind that in a world of differences, inequalities 
and conflicts, even an agreement for a temporary truce 
is  an  achievement  for  the  international  community.  It 
is therefore our responsibility to continue to herald the 
Olympic Truce and spare no effort to ensure its actual 
implementation.
In the context of the United Nations and its role as 
a  forum  for  world  peace,  this  year’s  draft  resolution, 
entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and  development:  building 
13-54989
7/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  (A/68/L.8),  specifies  the  request  to 
States to observe the Olympic Truce from seven days 
before until seven days after the Games, mirroring the 
period of the ancient truce. The draft resolution’s goal 
is to reiterate the value of sports, culture, education and 
sustainable  development  towards  a  peaceful  planet.  It 
further  elaborates  on  the  role  of  sports  in  promoting 
social  inclusion  without  discrimination  of  any  kind, 
tolerance  and  understanding,  aiming  at 
raising 
awareness around their potential for peace. In the same 
vein,  the  draft  resolution  welcomes  the  establishment 
of the International Day of Sport for Development and 
Peace, the sole goal of which has been set as mobilizing 
for action towards peace.
Ms. Picco (Monaco) Vice-President, took the Chair.
In 2014, the Russian Federation will host the Winter 
Olympic  Games  in  Sochi.  I  seize  this  opportunity  to 
wish Russia every success in that difficult endeavour. 
The task of the rest of us is to meet our responsibilities 
by  observing  the  Olympic  Truce  and  making  peace  a 
feasible  goal.  We  should  all  find  inspiration  in  next 
year’s  Olympic  Games  and  reflect  on  how  sports  can 
be used as a propitious tool to reduce tensions and to 
build bridges. 
Finally,  with  a  sense  of  collectivity,  we  should 
make a difference and, for the first time — even for a 
brief period of time — we should lay down our arms 
and make the Olympic Truce a reality.
Ms.  Al-Mulla  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  a 
pleasure for my delegation to take part in this meeting 
and to deliver a statement on agenda item 11, “Sport for 
peace and development: building a peaceful and better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, based on 
the State of Kuwait’s belief in the importance of sports 
and  the  great  service  it  provides  to  the  international 
community and to improving relations between nations. 
The State of Kuwait affirms the importance of the 
General  Assembly’s  deliberations  on  sport  for  peace 
and  development.  It  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the 
work of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on 
Sport for Development and Peace, Mr. Wilfried Lemke, 
and it pledges to do its utmost to promote the United 
Nations  endeavours  in  that  field.  We  were  honoured 
to  join  in  the  consensus  adoption  of  resolution  66/5, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal”, in 2011. We congratulate 
Russia on submitting draft resolution A/68/L.8.
Sport  provides  a  great  opportunity  for  peace 
and  friendly  relations  to  prevail,  and  constitutes  an 
important driving force at the national and international 
levels. It spreads the spirit of peace and teamwork, and 
it  mitigates  the  threat  of  wars  and  animosity.  Sport 
plays a prominent role in improving the lives of peoples 
worldwide.  It  builds  bridges  between  individuals  and 
societies  and  provides  a  fertile  ground  for  peaceful 
cordiality.  Sport  is  considered  to  be  a  powerful 
tool  in  fostering  social  links  between  countries  and 
promoting  peace,  solidarity  and  justice.  It  also  plays 
a  prominent  role  in  enhancing  social  integration, 
economic development and sustainable development in 
all fields, and plays an important role in enhancing the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Young  people  are 
the  cornerstone  of  social 
development. We must therefore exploit their potential 
through  policies,  programmes  and  plans  that  will 
inevitably lead to a prosperous future for nations. The 
State  of  Kuwait  attaches  great  importance  to  the  role 
of youth through its Ministry of Youth Affairs and its 
Public  Authority  for  Youth  and  Sport,  which  play  an 
important  role  in  training  and  guiding  young  people, 
improving their sports achievements and administering 
their  participation  in  various  tournaments,  especially 
the Olympic Games. 
In  addition,  we  cannot  forget  the  role  of  women 
in the fields of sport, culture and society. My country 
has  worked  eagerly  to  remove  all  barriers  hindering 
women’s  participation  in  sport  games.  My  country 
organized the first Gulf Cooperation Council women’s 
handball  tournament  in  October,  in  which  five  Gulf 
countries  participated.  We  also  participated  in  the 
XXX Olympic Games in London in 2011, in which 11 
Kuwaiti men and women participated. 
Sport  has  become  an  integral  part  of  the  United 
Nations  objectives  and  an  effective  tool  to  foster  the 
principles of peace and justice, solidarity and cultural 
and humanitarian diversity among peoples. I reaffirm 
my country’s support for making sports a priority at the 
United Nations.
In conclusion, I would like to commend the interest 
accorded by all Member States to the universal nature 
of  sport  as  an  important  tool  in  fostering  peace, 
development, education and health. 
8/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
Mr.  Lee  (Singapore):  Singapore  looks  forward  to 
the adoption today of draft resolution A/68/L.8, entitled 
“Sport for peace and development: building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”. 
We are pleased to co-sponsor the draft resolution and 
welcome the ideals that the Olympic Truce represents.
I take this opportunity to thank the former President 
of the International Olympic Committee, Mr. Jacques 
Rogge, for his invaluable contributions to the Olympic 
movement  during  his  12-year  tenure.  I  also  offer  our 
warmest  congratulations  to  the  new  President  of  the 
International Olympic Committee, Mr. Thomas Bach, 
and am confident that the Olympic ideals will continue 
to flourish under his stewardship.
Sport  brings  many  benefits  to  individuals  and 
communities.  It  encourages  healthy  lifestyles  and 
inculcates the values of humility, hard work, discipline, 
fair  play  and  determination.  The  timeless  Olympic 
values  of  striving  for  excellence,  demonstrating 
respect  and  celebrating  friendship  have  inspired  our 
top sportsmen and sportswomen to do their best and to 
overcome  their  personal  limitations  through  peaceful 
rivalry.  More  importantly,  sport  has  a  profound  way 
of  bringing  people  together  in  the  pursuit  of  sporting 
excellence, transcending differences in socioeconomic 
backgrounds,  cultures  and  nationalities.  And 
the 
Olympic  Games,  standing  at  the  pinnacle  of  sporting 
achievement,  have  contributed 
to 
the  promotion  of  peace  and  greater  tolerance  and 
understanding in the world.
immeasurably 
Singapore  is  honoured  to  be  part  of  Olympic 
history  through  our  hosting  of  the  inaugural  Youth 
Olympic Games in 2010. The Games have been a source 
of  inspiration  for  us  to  continue  to  do  everything  we 
can  to  develop  and  build  a  strong  sporting  culture  in 
Singapore.  Our  Vision  2030  master  plan  is  a  national 
strategy to stimulate positive, deeply embedded values 
for  Singaporeans  and  our  nation  through  sport.  We 
believe that sport can help maintain Singapore’s social 
integrity and economic strength. It can help us overcome 
the challenges presented by an ageing population, rising 
regional  and  international  competition,  and  increased 
diversity  within  our  multicultural  and  multiracial 
society.
Sport is more than winning medals or keeping fit. 
By its very nature, sport develops the attributes that we 
need  to  compete  in  the  evolving  global  conditions:  a 
winning spirit, a respect for teamwork, a commitment 
to leadership and a love of country. Those are principles 
that we want firmly rooted not just in our athletes, but 
throughout our society, in our schools and universities, 
as  well  as  in  our  workforce.  We  believe  we  can  live 
better through sports.
Singapore will continue to champion the Olympic 
ideals through sports. We competed in the 2012 Summer 
Olympic  Games  and  the  Summer  Paralympic  Games 
with our largest ever Olympic contingent — 23 athletes 
and 8 parathletes, respectively. In 2015, Singapore will 
host the twenty-eighth Southeast Asian Games, which 
will  also  coincide  with  our  fiftieth  anniversary  as  a 
nation and is therefore doubly significant and historic. 
Our  athletes  and  parathletes,  champions  in  their  own 
right, will continue to blaze the trail and inspire many 
young people to dream bigger.
The 65,000-kilometre Sochi Winter Olympic torch 
relay has already begun, with the torch recently reaching 
the  North  Pole.  Singapore  extends  its  best  wishes  to 
Russia in hosting a successful Olympic Winter Games 
and  Paralympic  Winter  Games  in  Sochi  in  February 
next year. We also wish China every success in hosting 
the second Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing in August 
2014. We believe that through these Games, sports and 
the  Olympic  vision  will  remain  a  force  for  good  and 
peace in this uncertain world.
Ms.  Cousens  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and  development: 
building a peaceful and better world through sport and 
the  Olympic  ideal”  (A/68/L.8).  We  especially  want  to 
draw  attention  to  the  language  in  the  draft  resolution 
“calling upon host countries to promote social inclusion 
without  discrimination  of  any  kind”.  This  is  the  first 
time that language of that kind appears in a resolution 
on the Olympic Truce, and it sends a powerful message 
highlighting  the  role  that  sport  plays  for  all  people. 
The phrase emphasizes the importance of the inclusion 
and  participation  of  all  people  in  sporting  activity, 
regardless  of  identity,  including  persons  of  different 
sexual orientations and gender identities.
In  its  recitation  of  the  fundamental  principles  of 
Olympism, the Olympic Charter states that
“[e]very  individual  must  have  the  possibility  of 
practicing  sport,  without  discrimination  of  any 
kind  and  in  the  Olympic  spirit,  which  requires 
mutual  understanding  with  a  spirit  of  friendship, 
solidarity and fair play”.
13-54989
9/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
Many of the most inspirational moments in the Olympics 
have  come  through  the  ever-broadening  participation 
of  persons  of  various  backgrounds  in  the  Games, 
including Native American Jim Thorpe’s decathlon and 
pentathlon gold medals in the 1912 Olympics; the four 
gold medals African-American Jesse Owens won at the 
1936  Berlin  Olympics;  the  three  1960  gold  medals  of 
Wilma Rudolph, an African-American woman stricken 
with  polio  at  age  4  whose  childhood  doctors  feared 
she might never walk without wearing a leg brace; and 
the recent inspirational performance of South African 
Caster Semenya, who faced unprecedented challenges 
and unfair gender testing in 2009, only to return proudly 
and medal in the London Games, where her teammates 
selected  her  for  the  honour  of  serving  as  her  nation’s 
flag-bearer during the opening ceremony.
Part  of  what  makes  sport  so  important  is  that  it 
promotes inclusion, bringing together people of different 
ages, races, religions, social status, disabilities, sexual 
orientation  and  gender  identity.  Sport  embraces  all 
segments of society and is instrumental in empowering 
people  of  diverse  backgrounds,  while 
fostering 
tolerance and respect for all people, no matter what they 
look like, where they come from, where they worship, 
or whom they love.
Mr.  Silwamba  (Zambia):  Zambia  believes  that 
sports  can  play  an  important  role  in  our  societies. 
Sports promote excellence and a healthier lifestyle and 
is  a  wonderful  way  of  bringing  people  together  from 
all walks of life. In Zambia, sports has been a means 
of  recreation,  promoting  healthier  life  styles  and, 
more importantly, transmitting life-serving messages, 
especially  to  young  people.  Sports  has  helped  my 
country,  especially 
them 
away  from  vices  such  as  drug  abuse,  premarital  and 
unprotected  sex,  and  beer  drinking,  among  other  bad 
habits. Sport has also been an avenue that has helped to 
reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS.
its  young,  by  keeping 
Sports  knows  neither  gender,  tribe,  race  nor 
religious affiliation. It is a unifier of humankind. The 
Government of the Republic of Zambia is encouraging 
gender  mainstreaming  in  sports  and  urges  more  girls 
and women to get involved in games. In that regard, the 
Zambian Government  has  seen  an  increase  in  women 
participating and winning prizes in sports tournaments. 
Many women are now participating in boxing, a sport 
traditionally regarded as a male preserve. Furthermore, 
sports  is  now  incorporated  into  school  programmes, 
with  regular  tournaments  held  in  various  disciplines 
among schools, colleges, universities and other learning 
institutions.
As  the  world  grapples  with  the  issue  of  high 
unemployment,  sport  is  becoming  a  sector  that  is 
undeniably  creating  employment,  particularly  among 
the young. In a bid to encourage Zambians to get more 
involved in sports, our Members of Parliament from all 
political parties regularly play football and other games. 
A  football  team  of  Zambian  Members  of  Parliament 
has  from  time  to  time  hosted  informal  games  with 
their  counterparts  from  Malawi  and  other  countries 
of  the  Southern  African  Development  Community.  It 
is gratifying to report that our Members of Parliament 
have  also  engaged  diplomats  accredited  to  Zambia  in 
sports  competitions  as  a  means  of  enhancing  mutual 
understanding and improve mutual cooperation.
infrastructure, 
My Government encourages the private sector, as 
part  of  its  corporate  social  responsibility,  to  support 
sports  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  Working  with 
several partners, including the International Olympics 
Committee (IOC) and friendly countries like China, the 
Zambian Government has embarked on the construction 
of  sports 
large-capacity 
football  stadiums,  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  To 
our gratification, the International Olympic Committee 
in  2010  constructed  the  Olympic  Youth  Development 
Centre in the capital city, Lusaka. The Centre is a pilot-
project in the series of multi-sport facilities scheduled 
to  be  built  in  developing  countries  as  part  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee’s  Sports  for  Hope 
programme.
including 
The  Centre  in  Lusaka  comprises  football  and 
hockey pitches, a running track, tennis courts, a boxing 
ring  and  multi-purpose  areas  that  can  accommodate 
such  sports  as  basketball,  handball,  weight-lifting, 
volleyball,  judo  and  gymnastics.  The  Olympic  Youth 
Development Centre is home to some 10,906 children 
aged between 10 and 17 years who are registered and 
actively participate in various sporting activities there. 
Of these, 6,624 are male and 4,282 are female. Between 
500 and 700 children and youths visit the Centre on a 
daily basis. The Centre offers a wide range of educational 
programmes, health services and community activities 
aimed at improving young people’s quality of life.
from  Zambia 
and 
neighbouring  countries  have  already  been  to  the 
Olympic Youth Development Centre for training. Since 
its  inception,  it  has  hosted  international  tournaments 
with  four  to  eight  countries  participating.  The  Centre 
Thousands  of 
athletes 
10/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
has embarked on a programme to build accommodation 
facilities  to  house  athletes  from  other  parts  of  Africa 
during training camps and tournaments.
in 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and International 
Olympics  Committee  President  Mr.  Jacques  Rogge 
visited  the  Centre  on  25  February  2012  to  encourage 
youth  participation 
sports.  My  Government 
appreciates  such  support  and  calls  upon  our  partners 
to continue working with us to ensure that the Centre 
continues to be a model of excellence and a model that 
can  be  replicated  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  Zambia 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  promoting  sports  and  to 
encourage  the  young  and  old  alike  to  get  involved  in 
one form of sport or another for their well-being.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  Before  the  first  Olympic 
torch was lit and before a ball was kicked for the first 
time  in  the  World  Cup,  sports  had  become  part  of 
our  social  and  cultural  identity.  Many  types  of  sport 
have  evolved  since  and  the  spirit  of  the  competition 
carried by each sport is no longer just about winning 
or losing. It has gone beyond that. Sport is associated 
with  everything  that  defines  us  as  human:  courage, 
determination,  emotions,  perseverance,  acceptance, 
discipline, teamwork and much more.
Sport  somehow  has  a  unique  charisma  to  attract, 
mobilize and inspire people all around the world. It is 
like  a  language  that  we  all  speak  and  understand.  It 
plays a significant role as a social instrument that can 
promote social integration and economic development, 
strengthen  social  ties  and  networks,  and  promote  the 
ideals  of  peace,  fraternity,  solidarity,  non-violence, 
tolerance and justice.
As  a  developing  nation,  Malaysia  has  identified 
sport  as  a  medium  that  serves  as  a  catalyst  to  its 
nation-building  process.  Since  independence,  sport 
has  been  seen  as  a  means  of  contributing  to  the 
development  of  the  spirit  of  nationalism  and  national 
integration.  In  sports,  nationalism  forms  the  natural 
framework into which people unite and structures the 
valuable consolidation of Malaysia’s society. Malaysia 
is fully aware of the positive influence of sport and will 
continue to utilize sport and its potential by integrating 
its values into our national development strategies and 
approaches in our society’s capacity-building process.
The Ministry of Youth and Sports of Malaysia has 
outlined its strategic plan for the period 2010-2015 with 
the objective of encouraging Malaysians from all walks 
of life to embrace the motto “a healthy mind in a healthy 
body”. Through the strategic plan, we aim to become a 
true  sporting  nation  whose  people  engage  in  physical 
exercise  and  play  various  sports  on  a  daily  basis, 
emulating  positives  trends  in  many  countries  around 
the world. Some of the main initiatives to achieve that 
target include the following.
First, in order to cultivate sports for all, the Ministry 
of  Youth  and  Sports  has  undertaken  programmes  and 
activities  to  ensure  the  participation  of  all,  including 
through the establishment of a variety of sports clubs; 
the  promotion  and  demonstration  of  various  sports; 
the  building  and  upgrading  of  sports  infrastructure 
and  facilities;  and  the  combining  of  efforts  with  the 
Ministry  of  Education  and  the  Ministry  of  Health  in 
creating  awareness  of  the  merits  of  being  actively 
engaged in sports and its relationship with good health 
and good results in education.
Thus  far,  our  efforts,  along  with  relentless 
awareness campaigns, have yielded encouraging results, 
as  Malaysians  show  great  interest  in  running,  futsal, 
paintball, cycling, wall-climbing and more. In line with 
the spirit of ensuring access to sports for all, Malaysia 
has  also  undertaken  initiatives  to  promote  and  raise 
awareness  of  sport  and  disabilities,  and  is  developing 
that  concept  to  ensure  our  active  participation  in 
various multi-disability competitions, single-disability 
competitions  and  single-sport  competitions,  including 
the Paralympic Games.
Secondly,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  development 
of  high-performance  sports,  Malaysia  is  currently 
producing  champions  in  certain  sports.  Nevertheless, 
we cannot rest on our laurels, because compared to the 
sport  achievements  of  major  sporting  countries,  there 
is  still  a  long  way  to  go  for  Malaysia.  Malaysia  aims 
to  increase  its  performance  and  improve  its  ranking 
in  several  sports  by  investing  in  their  development, 
identifying  and  nurturing 
talent  and  producing 
world-class  national  coaches  via  a  train-the-trainers 
programme. The success of that strategic initiative can 
be  measured  by  only  one  outcome  —  the  number  of 
medals achieved in international arenas, including the 
Olympic, Commonwealth and Asian Games.
Thirdly, in terms of developing sport as industry, 
Malaysia  has  a  vision  to  create  a  strong  industry 
based on sport that can boost the economy and further 
contribute  to  our  gross  domestic  product.  To  achieve 
that, strong partnerships between the corporate sector 
and  the  sporting  industry  must  be  fostered.  Progress 
towards achieving that goal is on the right track, with 
13-54989
11/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
Malaysia  being  continually  entrusted  to  host  various 
international  sporting  events,  such  as  Formula  1, 
MotoGP, Le Tour de Langkawi and regattas in Selangor, 
Kedah, Terengganu and Sarawak, to name a few.
Malaysia’s efforts are not confined to our national 
initiatives.  Through  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN) ministerial meeting on sports, 
Malaysia pursues its interest in sport development and 
lends  its  support  to  ASEAN  and  its  various  bodies, 
including  the  ASEAN  Football  Federation,  ASEAN 
Basketball  League,  ASEAN  Volleyball  Tournament 
and  ASEAN  Para  Sports  Federation.  Realizing 
ASEAN’s potential for sport in a region of 600 million 
people, Malaysia has proposed that 2013 be designated 
the  ASEAN  Sports  Industry  Year,  a  proposal  that 
was  accepted  by  the  ASEAN  ministerial  meeting  on 
sports. Malaysia is optimistic that the sports industry 
will  benefit  ASEAN,  as  the  latter  is  moving  towards 
becoming a single community by 2015.
The  free  movement  of  trades  and  goods  will  also 
accelerate  the  growth  of  the  sports  industry,  which 
presents valuable commercial opportunities through an 
open market, allowing larger cross-border transactions 
in  sponsorships,  licensing  and  merchandising;  sports 
tourism;  and  broadcasting  distribution  rights.  In 
addition,  the  sports  industry  will  also  encourage  the 
growth of areas related to sports medicine, marketing, 
events and management.
In  conjunction  with  the  ASEAN  Sports  Industry 
Year,  Malaysia  will  convene  MYSportsFest  this  year, 
an event that will feature 100 sports-related activities, 
including  competitions,  exhibitions,  carnivals,  sports 
clinics  and  talent  searches.  Apart  from  encouraging 
Malaysians  to  lead  a  healthy  lifestyle,  MYSportsFest 
will provide an opportunity for companies involved in 
the sports industry to promote their products.
While sports alone cannot prevent conflict or build 
peace,  it  can  assist  in  peacebuilding  interventions. 
Sports can contribute to an atmosphere of tolerance and 
understanding  among  peoples  and  nations.  Through 
collaboration  and  cooperation,  Governments  should 
strengthen  their  efforts  to  use  sports  to  overcome 
development  challenges  and,  in  turn,  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
To  conclude,  Malaysia  believes  in  the  concept 
of  sport  for  development  and  peace,  as  it  transcends 
sociocultural and political barriers. The ability of sport 
to  reach  millions  of  people  all  over  the  world  and  its 
potential to empower, motivate and inspire is amazing 
and has no boundaries.
Mr.  Roet  (Israel):  On  behalf  of  the  State  of 
Israel,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Special  Adviser  to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  for  his  important  work 
encouraging dialogue, collaboration and partnership.
Israel is proud to be one of the sponsors of today’s 
draft  resolution  (A/68/L.8),  which  focuses  on  sport 
as  a  rallying  point.  It  is  interesting  that  sport,  which 
brings  people  to  compete  against  one  another,  can 
transcend  differences  and  establish  common  ground. 
Put more simply, sport fosters friendship, cooperation 
and understanding. Sport has the ability to touch hearts 
and minds and bring tangible benefits to every corner 
of the globe.
Throughout  the  world,  there  are  hundreds  of 
non-profit  organizations  that  seek  to  bridge  cultural 
divides  and  eliminate  hatred  through  sport.  In  Israel, 
the  Peres  Center  for  Peace  was  founded  by  Israel’s 
President Peres to further his vision of having people 
in the Middle East work together in genuine friendship.
One  of  the  programmes  run  by  the  Center  is  the 
Twinned Peace Sport Schools. It is the longest-running 
coexistence  sport  project  in  the  Middle  East.  Every 
year,  close  to  2,000  Israeli  and  Palestinian  children 
participate in programmes with twinned communities 
across  the  country.  The  project  fosters  peace  and 
coexistence  between  young  Palestinians  and  Israelis 
by  challenging  stereotypes.  Palestinian  and  Israeli 
children  unite  under  a  common  banner  to  cheer  each 
other on and build lasting friendships. Programmes like 
those  have  two  goals:  teaching  children  how  to  score 
goals  and,  more  importantly,  teaching  them  mutual 
respect, equity and reciprocity. In the process, they can 
heal wounds, mend fences and overcome differences.
in  Munich,  when  Palestinian 
Sadly,  not  all  sporting  events  have  been  driven 
by  those  ideals.  We  recall  the  1972  Olympic  Games 
massacre 
terrorists 
killed 11 Israeli athletes, coaches and a referee under 
the  interlocking  rings  of  the  Olympic  banner.  It  is 
regrettable  that,  more  than  40  years  after  the  Munich 
massacre,  the  International  Olympic  Committee  has 
refused all requests to observe a moment of silence in 
their honour. The memory of that inhumane act is still 
felt in Israel and is a warning for the ages that sports 
cannot be used as a vehicle for incitement and hatred.
12/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
While we like to think that the days of discrimination 
are behind us, Israel continues to suffer from prejudice 
in certain sporting arenas. Only weeks ago, a Tunisian 
athlete  was  ordered  to  forfeit  a  quarterfinal  match 
against his Israeli opponent in the Association of Tennis 
Professionals  Challenger  Tour  tennis  tournament  in 
Uzbekistan.  That  flies  in  the  face  of  everything  that 
sportsmanship represents.
Today, we must recommit to advancing sports and 
ensuring that every athlete is given the opportunity to 
compete.  We  must  commit  to  being  the  torchbearers 
of the true Olympic spirit, ensuring that sport carries 
connotations of peace, harmony and tolerance and that 
it is not hijacked by those committed to fundamentalist 
ideologies.  Sporting  initiatives  in  Israel  break  down 
boundaries  such  as  class,  religion,  race  and  even 
physical  abilities.  Such  institutions  as  the  Israel 
Sports Center for the Disabled are helping to integrate 
every  member  of  society.  By  encouraging  youth  with 
disabilities to participate in sports, the organization is 
helping heal psychological and physical wounds while 
building self-confidence.
Israel  is  sharing  its  experience  using  sports  to 
promote peace and tolerance with countries throughout 
the  developing  world.  Mifalot  is  the  largest  and  most 
diverse  sport-for-development  and  peace  organization 
in  the  Middle  East.  With  over  300  programmes, 
Mifalot harnesses the power and popularity of football 
to  build  compassionate  and  cohesive  communities. 
From leadership training to assisting new immigrants, 
Mifalot  helps  thousands  of  people  with  educational 
and social needs. Today, Mifalot applies its successful 
model  to  utilize  football —  the  world’s  game —  as  a 
platform  for  social  change  in  countries  ranging  from 
Jordan to Rwanda and from Haiti to Nigeria.
As  Israel’s  President  Shimon  Peres  said,  “Peace 
should be done not only among Governments but among 
people”.  Sports  have  the  ability  to  unite  us,  but  only 
if  the  politics  of  coexistence  come  before  the  politics 
of  hate  and  division.  We  encourage  all  people  in  the 
Middle East and throughout the world to use sports to 
promote coexistence, to learn from one another and to 
foster peace and harmony.
Mr.  Umemoto  (Japan):  Japan  highly  appreciates 
the  efforts  made  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon; 
his  Special  Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke;  and  Mr.  John  Ashe  and 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić, the current and the former Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly,  towards  achieving  human 
development and peace through sport.
Sports can connect the world. Sports are capable of 
uniting and inspiring people in a way that transcends 
differences  such  as  nationality,  ethnicity,  gender  and 
political persuasion. Sports are a gift that can be shared 
by all, despite our varying abilities. It is for reasons such 
as those that Japan is strongly committed to conveying 
and sharing the joy of sports and creating a better world 
through sport. In line with that commitment, we believe 
that  sport  should  be  promoted  by  the  international 
community  and  that  it  should  be  made  available  and 
accessible  to  all.  No  one  should  be  left  out,  and  in 
particular,  women  and  people  with  disabilities  should 
be  able  to  enjoy  the  same  benefits  and  pleasures  of 
sports as everyone else.
Japan  appreciates 
the 
international community to promote the positive use of 
sports to build a peaceful and better world. For example, 
Japan, as a sponsor, welcomes resolution 67/296, on the 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace, 
which  was  adopted  in  August  under  the  initiative  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Olympic 
Committee  (IOC).  I  would  also  like  to  commend  the 
Russian  Federation  for  promoting  this  year’s  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.8,  on  the  Olympic  Truce.  Japan,  as 
a sponsor of the draft resolution, strongly supports its 
spirit of building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal. We firmly believe that the 
Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games to be hosted in 
Sochi next year will realize the ideals and objectives of 
the draft resolution.
the  various  efforts  of 
On  7  September,  Tokyo  was  selected  to  host 
the  2020  Olympic  Games.  I  would  like  to  express 
my  sincere  appreciation  to  all  those  who  supported 
Tokyo’s  candidacy  to  host  the  Games.  I  also  wish  to 
heartily commend the tireless efforts of the campaigns 
conducted by both Madrid and Istanbul. We were in a 
truly neck-and-neck competition right down to the very 
final moments.
Towards the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, we are 
committed to conveying and sharing the joy of sports 
and creating a better world through sport. To that end, 
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stated in the IOC session, 
Japan will further contribute to the Olympic movement 
by  implementing  various  programmes  under  our  new 
plan Sports for Tomorrow, targeted towards more than 
10 million people in more than 100 countries, including 
developing countries, over the next seven years.
13-54989
13/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
Specifically,  we  intend  to  concentrate  on  the 
improvement of sports facilities, cooperation in sports 
curricula design and the development of international 
human  resources 
through 
invitational  programmes  and  by  dispatching  coaches 
and  athletes.  In  addition,  we  will  work  closely  with 
concerned  organizations 
in  further  strengthening 
international anti-doping activities.
the  sporting  arena 
in 
Japan will continue to collaborate with Mr. Lemke 
and the United Nations Office on Sport for Development 
and  Peace  (UNOSDP).  Among  its  initiatives,  Tokyo 
will  host  the  UNOSDP  Youth  Leadership  Camp  in 
January next year.
In the wake of the earthquake of 2011, the people of 
Japan received warm support and encouragement from 
the  IOC  and  the  international  sports  community.  The 
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in London served 
as a great source of inspiration to the people of Japan, 
and once again opened our eyes to the inherent power of 
sports to inspire dreams, hopes and aspirations and to 
strengthen the bonds between people, thus experiencing 
ourselves the power of sport to make the world a better 
place.
Now it is our turn to do the same. Towards the 2020 
Olympic  Games  in  Tokyo,  Japan  will  strengthen  our 
contribution to the achievement of human development 
and peace through sports. Japan will make every effort 
so  that  the  2020  Olympic  Games  can  captivate  and 
inspire people all over the world. We look forward to 
the Assembly’s support and cooperation.
Mr.  Kebret  (Ethiopia):  Ethiopia  recognizes  the 
historical and diverse roles of sport, be it in the form of 
competitive sports, physical activities or play. Indeed, 
sports  not  only  are  physical  exercise  and  games,  but 
also  have  the  universal  potential  power  and  means  to 
an end in the sphere of economic, political and social 
change and/or development, as well as in the promotion 
of  peace  and  cultural  understanding  in  every  society. 
Hence, sport has become a universal phenomenon and a 
language of communication and information that have 
a potential positive impact on human relations. This is 
not only because sport possesses such unique attributes 
not  only  for  developing  healthy  human  relations  in 
society  and  with  respect  to  the  peaceful  relationship 
and coexistence of States, but also because it has long 
been recognized as an essential factor in the realization 
of development and peace objectives.
At 
level, 
the  national 
In recognition of the central and inherent potential 
role that global and traditional sports play in economic 
and social development, Ethiopia has made sport one of 
its development priorities and been actively working to 
promote and develop national sports by incorporating 
them  into  our  overall  development  agenda,  including 
in our international relations, in order to develop and 
further strengthen bonds of friendship and cooperation.
the  Government  has 
developed  a  comprehensive  national  sport  policy  and 
strategic  implementation  plans.  The  basic  objectives 
of  this  policy  are  to  enhance  the  participation  of  the 
community  in  traditional  and  modern  sports  and  to 
make  sporting  activities  accessible  to  all,  consistent 
with  their  capacities  and  preferences,  so  as  to  realize 
the  fundamental  rights  of  citizens  to  the  enjoyment 
of  sports.  The  policy  also  aims  to  register  great 
achievements  of  international  scope  by  tapping  the 
huge  potential  resources  existing  in  communities, 
and  in  particular  among  young  people,  by  creating 
awareness  and  enabling  environments  for  various 
societal purposes.
More importantly, we are exerting every effort to 
use sport to foster social integration, development and 
peace, further promote our national image, enhance the 
inclusion  of  persons  with  disabilities,  ensure  that  all 
schools provide opportunities for students to engage in 
physical exercise during and after school, improve the 
quality of education, bring about sustainable economic 
development,  promote  employment  and  curb  poverty, 
and  recognize  and  motivate  sport  volunteerism  in 
national and local sport events by making it an integral 
and indispensable part of our sport initiatives. In short, 
our Government has been running community-, school- 
and youth-based sport development programmes with a 
view to realizing our people’s basic right of participation 
in sport and leisure activities.
through 
Obviously,  ensuring  and  sustaining  community 
sport  and  developing  elite  sport  programmes  across 
the country requires the investment of a huge amount 
of  resources.  In  other  words,  sport  development  or 
promotion 
increasing  public  participation 
cannot  be  achieved  by  one  particular  body  alone; 
implementation  must  be  supported  with  adequate 
resources and a broad range of individual, societal and 
international organizations on the basis of partnerships. 
Accordingly,  changing  our  existing  low-level  sport 
development  requires  the  optimal  involvement  of  all 
stakeholders  as  partners.  Sport,  as  a  cross-cutting 
14/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
issue, therefore needs the action-oriented collaboration 
of all relevant bodies, such as the United Nations and its 
agencies and international sporting organizations.
Unfortunately, in that regard, few or no meaningful 
partnerships have been established. For this reason, we 
are aware of the need to effectively implement our policy 
for improving national sport development and to work 
on  resource-  and  capacity-development  programmes 
in  partnership  with  development  agencies,  United 
Nations  bodies  and  international  sport  movements.  It 
is only when we act decisively and in collaboration that 
we  can  harness  the  power  of  sport  for  realization  of 
development and peace endeavours.
My delegation therefore calls upon the international 
community,  sport  partners  and  other  stakeholders  to 
develop and establish partnerships for meaningful and 
beneficial cooperation in the field of sport to enhance 
its positive contribution to the sustainable development 
and promotion of lasting peace.
Finally,  I  wish  to  announce  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation that Ethiopia is glad to join the sponsors of 
draft  resolution  A/68/L.8,  introduced  by  the  Russian 
Federation.
Mrs. Kazragienė (Lithuania): I have the honour to 
speak on behalf of the European Union and its member 
States.
The adoption of draft resolution A/68/L.8, entitled 
“Sport for peace and development: building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
would put the indispensable interaction between peace 
and sport on the front page. The European Union and its 
member States remain faithful advocates of the values 
of Olympism and will spare no effort in promoting the 
Olympic Truce as an effective means of building peace 
and solidarity.
The Olympic Games have always been inherently 
associated  with  the  ideal  of  truce.  We  consider  sport 
to  be  an  invaluable  tool  to  encourage  dialogue  and 
effectively mobilize the world for the accomplishment 
of  peace.  Furthermore,  the  concept  of  the  Olympic 
Truce provides us with a unique opportunity to achieve 
the  cessation  of  hostilities,  even  temporarily,  and  to 
promote the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
This  year,  draft  resolution  A/68/L.8  increases  the 
period  of  the  observance  of  the  Olympic  Truce  from 
seven days before the beginning until seven days after 
the conclusion of the Games. Moreover, it encourages 
the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  movements  to  cooperate 
with  national  and  international  sports  organizations 
on the use of sport for the purpose of contributing to 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  In  addition,  acknowledging  the  contribution 
of  the  volunteer  movement  to  the  Olympic  Games, 
the draft resolution calls on host countries to promote 
social inclusion without discrimination of any kind and 
recognize the role of sports in building tolerance and 
mutual understanding.
We believe that the international community must 
seek to address and fight all forms of discrimination on 
the basis of race, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender 
orientation,  disability,  age,  religion,  political  or  other 
opinion, national, social or ethnic origin, or any other 
grounds and to promote respect for diversity.
In conclusion, allow me to restate our commitment 
to support the peaceful resolution of existing conflicts 
and use this opportunity to urge all Member States to 
send  a  message  of  unity  and  to  preserve  the  Olympic 
Truce during the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi.
Mrs.  Gatto  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
and wishes to make the following additional remarks in 
its national capacity.
Italy  welcomes  the  imminent  adoption  of  draft 
resolution A/68/L.8 today and is proud to be among its 
sponsors.  The  strong  consensus  that  we  expect  today 
in  the  General  Assembly  demonstrates  that  the  ideal 
of  the  Olympic  truce  is  alive  and  powerful.  We  must 
now translate that commitment into reality. Looking at 
the many conflicts taking place around the world, the 
challenge seems daunting, yet ancient history is there 
to prove that strong ideals backed by serious political 
commitment can overcome such challenges.
Italy appreciates the new elements introduced into 
the draft resolution this year, in particular the extension 
of  the  period  of  truce  from  seven  days  prior  to  the 
beginning  to  seven  days  following  the  conclusion  of 
the Games, in line with the Greek tradition. The draft 
resolution  also  recognizes  the  important  role  of  the 
International  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Committees, 
as  well  as  their  partnership  with  the  United  Nations, 
in  particular  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace.  Along  with  civil  society 
organizations  and  the  media,  they  are  actors  who 
are  crucial  to  raising  awareness  of  the  extraordinary 
opportunity represented by the Olympic Truce. Special 
13-54989
15/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
efforts must be devoted to mobilizing the young people 
of the world.
initiative  of 
the  Italian  soccer 
Italy is a strong believer in sport as a powerful tool 
and  vehicle  for  promoting  peace  and  development.  In 
2009 we actively supported the adoption of resolution 
64/3,  granting  observer  status  to  the  International 
Olympic Committee. Last year in the United Nations we 
introduced  the  Intercampus  Programme,  a  non-profit 
social 
team  F.C. 
Internazionale  providing  assistance  to  needy  children 
and young people in 24 countries around the world. Its 
aim is to give back to those children their right to play. 
Through  football  programmes,  young  people  learn 
teamwork and the meaning of fair play, and gain access 
to health and education services often absent from their 
own villages. Intercampus proves that sport can make 
a difference in the daily lives of many people around 
the world.
As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon once said, sport 
has become a world language, a common denominator 
that breaks down all the walls, all the barriers. We hope 
that  next  February  sport  will  speak  the  language  of 
peace  and  inclusivity.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  wish 
the Russian Federation every success in organizing the 
2014 Olympic Games in Sochi.
Mr.  Lazarev  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus  welcomes  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.8,  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development:  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  before  the 
Assembly today. Belarus has joined the list of the draft 
resolution’s sponsors.
We welcome this recognition of the importance of 
observing the Olympic principles at the high level of a 
General Assembly resolution. The draft resolution we 
will adopt today can serve as a foundation basis for the 
future strengthening and observation of the principle of 
the Olympic Truce. That can be ensured if States, the 
United Nations, the International Olympic Committee 
and  the  chief  officials  of  those  organizations  play  an 
active  role  in  promoting  and  protecting  the  Olympic 
ideals.
We  are  convinced  that  the  politicization  of  issues 
relating  to  sport  and  the  Olympic  Games  is  contrary 
to the principles of friendly and civilized international 
relations,  the  ideals  and  principles  of  sport  and  the 
spirit and letter of the Olympic Charter. Unfortunately, 
the  last  Summer  Olympic  Games  showed  that  not  all 
countries  are  prepared  to  meet  their  obligations  to 
abide in good faith by the Olympic principles to which 
they  commit  when  they  are  given  the  lofty  honour  of 
organizing the Olympic Games. We are convinced that 
such  actions  should  be  appropriately  evaluated  at  the 
international  level,  particularly  on  the  part  and  at  the 
initiative of the leadership of the International Olympic 
Committee and the United Nations. Unfortunately, that 
mechanism is not yet functioning effectively.
Belarus 
is  convinced 
that 
the  XXII  Winter 
Olympic Games and XI Winter Paralympic Games in 
Sochi will be conducted at a high level and will be a 
visible  affirmation  of  the  contribution  that  sport  and 
the Olympic movement make to building a peaceful and 
happy  world.  We  wish  our  Russian  colleagues  every 
success in the preparation and holding of the Olympic 
and Paralympic Games.
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk 
has 
traditionally recognized the value of sport in building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world,  promoting  tolerance, 
equality and understanding among people and nations. 
Through  its  unique  power  to  bring  us  together,  sport 
can transcend boundaries and unite people irrespective 
of their race, religion or political views.
(Ukraine):  Ukraine 
The  Government  of  Ukraine  firmly  believes 
in  sport’s  potential  to  contribute  to  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to make 
a  real  difference  in  people’s  lives,  including  those 
from  the  most  vulnerable  groups.  In  Ukraine  sport 
and  physical  education  are  considered  as  part  of  a 
broader perspective on promoting healthy lifestyles and 
constitute a strategic priority in Government policy. We 
believe  that  a  holistic  multisectoral  approach  to  sport 
can be very effective in helpting to achieve the MDGs, 
including those relating to health and education.
Guided  by  the  noble  ideals  and  principles  of 
the  Paralympic  movement,  Ukraine  pays  particular 
attention to the use of sport as a means to rehabilitate 
persons  with  disabilities  and  enhance  their  social 
inclusion.  My  country  runs  a  unique  State  sports 
institution, the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Education 
and  Sport  for  Persons  with  Disabilities.  It  consists  of 
27 regional centres and 106 local offices, with 26 sport 
schools for children with disabilities. More than 50,000 
persons with disabilities actively practice sport and use 
it for rehabilitation.
Ukraine  is  committed  to  promoting  sport  as  a 
means  to  advance  peace  and  development  around  the 
16/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
world. Last year, as a contribution to that goal, Ukraine, 
together  with  Poland,  hosted  the  fourteenth  Union  of 
European Football Associations (UEFA) championship. 
It  was  the  first  UEFA  championship  held  in  Eastern 
Europe,  and  it  is  our  sincere  hope  that  this  major 
event succeeded in contributing to a renewed spirit of 
friendship and solidarity in the region and to its social 
and  economic  development  as  a  whole.  In  2013  we 
hosted the thirty-second Rhythmic Gymnastics World 
Championship,  as  well  as  world  youth  championships 
in  boxing  and  athletics,  and  in  2015  we  will  host  the 
thirty-ninth European Basketball Championship.
I have the pleasure to inform the General Assembly 
that  yesterday  the  National  Olympic  Committee  of 
Ukraine,  supported  by  the  Government  of  Ukraine, 
officially  declared  its  intention  to  hold  the  2022 
Winter  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  in  Lviv. 
Our  vision  for  the  Games  goes  far  beyond  economic 
outlook,  improved  infrastructure,  new  facilities  or 
promoting  Ukraine’s  global  image.  For  us  it  is  rather 
about  developing  a  legacy  for  future  generations 
built  on  our  collective  respect  for  sport  and  its  basic 
values — friendship, goodwill, tolerance and fair play 
in  competition.  We  have  launched  a  national  project, 
Olympic  Hope  —  2022,  in  support  of  realizing  this 
initiative, with the aim of creating a sports and tourism 
infrastructure in Ukraine suitable for hosting the 2022 
Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games.
to 
the  Special  Adviser 
My  delegation  commends  the  continued  work  of 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace  and  of 
the 
Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  in  advocating  sport  as  a 
tool  for  achieving  peacebuilding,  development  and 
humanitarian objectives. We would like to assure them 
of our full support for their activities. Ukraine is also 
pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  today’s  draft  resolution 
and  would  like  to  wish  our  Russian  colleagues  well-
deserved success with the upcoming Winter Games in 
Sochi.
Ms. Hewanpola (Australia): Australia is pleased to 
co-sponsor  draft  resolution  A/68/L.8,  entitled  “Sport 
for  peace  and  development:  building  a  peaceful  and 
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
As  a  proud  sporting  nation  and  a  past  Olympics 
host,  Australia  appreciates  the  valuable  contribution 
that  sport  and  the  Olympics  have  made  to  enabling 
people  to  cross  language,  cultural  and  geographic 
divides, to inspire and unite us all, and to promote peace, 
cooperation,  intercultural  understanding,  education 
and  development.  In  that  regard,  we  acknowledge 
and  support  the  efforts  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee,  the  International  Paralympic  Committee, 
and the United Nations Office on Sport for Development 
and Peace in areas including poverty alleviation, gender 
equality, health promotion, child and youth education, 
HIV/AIDS  prevention,  peacebuilding  and  sustainable 
development.
Clearly, the Olympics has an important role to play 
in contributing to the promotion of social inclusion; in 
bringing  together  people  of  differing  ages,  genders, 
races,  cultures,  faiths  and  status;  in  educating  people 
on  such 
traditional  values  as  respect,  diversity, 
tolerance  and  fairness;  and  in  combating  all  forms  of 
discrimination,  including  on  the  grounds  of  sexual 
orientation  and  gender  identity.  We  commend  the 
inclusion of the simple but comprehensive language in 
the draft resolution calling on all host countries of the 
Olympic  Games  to  promote  social  inclusion  without 
discrimination of any kind.
The  realization  of  the  Sochi  2014  cultural  and 
educational programmes, which aim to promote cultural 
diversity  and  enhance  understanding  between  diverse 
communities,  can  also  contribute  to  our  peaceful 
coexistence. Australia looks forward to participating in 
the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games and Paralympic 
Winter Games.
Mr.  Elshareef  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
delegation  of  the  Sudan  would  like  to  express  its 
continued  support  for  the  biannual  resolution  first 
adopted  in  2011  and  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development:  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal”, which is before 
us today as draft resolution A/68/L.8.
The  Sudan  recognizes  that  all  forms  of  sports 
have since time immemorial played an important and 
effective  role  in  building  and  promoting  relations 
among diverse peoples and nations. Sports has played 
an  important  role  in  modern  times  both  in  bringing 
people closer and in effecting a thaw between countries 
with  heretofore  very  icy  relations.  The  delegation  of 
the Sudan appreciates the central role played by sports 
in  promoting  the  values  of  patience,  cooperation, 
perseverance, respect for others and tireless efforts.
The Sudan, convinced of the importance and value 
of  sports,  including  traditional  ones,  in  all  societies, 
13-54989
17/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
has promoted sports policies to consolidate the values 
I have mentioned and to employ the energies of youth 
in  fruitful  activities  that  help  to  forge  a  national 
identity,  thereby  contributing  to  the  Sudan’s  national 
development efforts, to the creation of an atmosphere 
of  tolerance  and  understanding  among  nations  and 
peoples, and to the promotion of the culture of peace. 
Against that backdrop and in that spirit, my delegation 
would like to pay tribute to all the international bodies 
that promote the role of sports across the globe.
the  Russian 
We wish every success to the organizers of the XXII 
Winter Olympics, to be held next year in Sochi in the 
Russian Federation. My delegation also acknowledges 
the  establishment  of 
International 
Olympic University in Sochi, which will be dedicated 
to  promoting  knowledge  and  lofty  Olympic  values, 
ideals  and  traditions,  including  the  activities  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee.  The  delegation  of 
the  Sudan  also  welcomes  the  reference  in  the  draft 
resolution  to  the  use  of  sports  to  promote  peace  and 
reconciliation in conflict zones.
In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  the  Sudan  has 
supported and co-sponsored the draft resolution before 
the Assembly today.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 64/3, of 19 October 2009, I 
now give the floor to the President of the International 
Olympic Committee.
Mr.  Bach  (International  Olympic  Committee) 
(spoke in French): The International Olympic Committee 
(IOC) presents its compliments to the General Assembly 
and is honoured to have the opportunity to address the 
Assembly today, just three months before the opening 
of  the  2014  Olympic  Games  and  Paralympic  Games 
in Sochi, in the framework of the debate on the draft 
resolution  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and  development: 
building a peaceful and better world through sport and 
the Olympic ideal” (A/68/L.8).
I wish to thank all those who made it possible for 
us to be here today. The IOC expresses its most sincere 
gratitude to the Government of the Russian Federation 
and  its  representatives  to  the  United  Nations;  to  the 
Sochi  2014  Organizing  Committee  and  its  president, 
Mr. Dmitry Chernyshenko; to the Group of Friends of 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace;  and  to  the  United 
Nations Special Adviser on Sport for Development and 
Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke.  Once  again,  we  ask  for 
support for the Olympic Truce.
(spoke in English)
“Olympic principles are United Nations principles,” 
said  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  his  keynote 
speech to the 2009 Olympic Congress in Copenhagen. 
Our  bond  became  even  stronger  after  the  General 
Assembly granted the IOC Permanent Observer status 
that same year.
Olympic principles are United Nations principles. 
That  is  just  as  true  today  as  the  General  Assembly 
addresses  a  tradition  dating  back  thousands  of  years 
ago  in  ancient  Greece  —  the  ekecheiria.  That  sacred 
truce,  the  Olympic  Truce,  is  based  on  the  tradition 
that  followed  an  agreement  among  three  ancient 
Greek  kings.  At  that  time,  the  Olympic  Games  were 
the  only  bond  that  linked  the  Greeks.  There  was  no 
political  unity.  Only  the  Games  brought  Greeks  from 
the mainland and the colonies together, just for a few 
days  every  four  years.  The  ekecheiria  ensured  a  halt 
to hostilities, allowing athletes and spectators to travel 
safely to and from Olympia.
This  shows  that  even  thousands  of  years  ago, 
a  partnership  between  sports  and  politics  already 
existed. That partnership has been, and is, not without 
its frictions, but it endures. Now is the time to adapt it 
for today’s world.
Our  partnership  today  has  a  completely  different 
dimension. At the time three city-States came together. 
At  the  United  Nations  today  we  are  talking  about  an 
association  of  193  States,  and,  at  the  International 
Olympic Committee, 204 recognized National Olympic 
Committees. That is a new dimension of the challenge 
in our partnership between politics and sport.
The IOC is, above all, a sports organization: sport 
is its first priority. The IOC recognizes its obligation to 
youth and society by contributing to the betterment of 
the quality of life, in accordance with its fundamental 
principles as set out in the Olympic Charter, namely:
“to  place  sport  at  the  service  of  the  harmonious 
development  of  humankind,  with  a  view 
to 
promoting  a  peaceful  society  concerned  with  the 
preservation of human dignity”.
That  describes  universal  values  and  goals  similar  to 
those of the United Nations.
Sport  is  a  good  starting  point  for  putting  those 
values and goals into practice, being truly the only area 
of  human  existence  to  have  achieved  what  is  known 
18/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
in  political  philosophy  as  universal  law  and  in  moral 
philosophy as a global ethic. Regardless of where in the 
world we practise sport, the rules are the same. They are 
recognized  worldwide.  They  are  based  on  a  common 
global  ethic  of  fair  play,  tolerance  and  friendship. 
But to apply this universal law worldwide and spread 
our  values  globally,  sport  has  to  enjoy  responsible 
autonomy. Politics must respect that sporting autonomy, 
for only then can sport organizations implement those 
universal  values  amid  all  the  differing  laws,  customs 
and traditions.
Responsible  autonomy  does  not  mean  that  sport 
should operate in a law-free environment. It does mean 
that  we  respect  national  laws  that  are  not  targeted 
against sport and its organizations alone, sometimes for 
chiefly political reasons.
In many States Members of the United Nations, the 
fact  that  sport  can  hold  its  international  competitions 
and promote its values only if enjoying autonomy is not 
always understood or accepted. For that reason, I ask 
members to take this message back to their countries: 
in the mutual interests of both sport and politics, please 
help to protect and strengthen the autonomy of sport. 
Only in that way can we create the win-win situation 
of  a  fruitful  partnership  for  the  benefit  of  youth  and 
society in general.
Naturally, that means that sport, too, must live up to 
its responsibilities. Our partners in politics, whom we 
expect to respect our autonomy, are entitled to expect 
that  we  exercise  that  autonomy  responsibly,  and  in 
accordance with the rules of good governance. The IOC 
sets an example in that regard. We want the Universal 
Principles  of  Good  Governance  of 
the  Olympic 
Movement to be accepted as a minimum standard and 
implemented at all levels of sport.
Within 
that  partnership,  sport  must 
remain 
politically  neutral.  That  does  not  mean  that  sport  is 
apolitical.  Sport  must  include  political  considerations 
in  its  decisions.  It  must  also  consider  the  political, 
economic  and  social  implications  of  its  decisions. 
That is true in particular when choosing the venues for 
major sports events — above all, of the largest and most 
important of those, the Olympic Games.
With the Olympic Games, the IOC sets an example 
of  peaceful  interaction.  The  Olympic  Games,  the 
Olympic athletes and in particular the Olympic Village 
are  a  powerful  symbol  of  that.  They  break  down  the 
barriers  of  cultural  differences.  They  serve  as  an 
example of mutual respect and non-discrimination. And 
it is always moving, not least for me as a former athlete, 
to see how, in the Olympic Village, young people from 
all  parts  of  the  world  live  together  harmoniously  and 
peacefully  in  one  place.  There  the  Olympic  spirit  is 
alive.
Beyond 
that,  Organizing  Committees 
are 
increasingly taking up the vision of the Olympic Truce. 
The London 2012 programme offered young people in 
every school and college across the United Kingdom a 
chance to take part in sporting and cultural activities, 
which  helped  encourage  peace  in  their  schools  and 
communities.
The  Sochi  2014  youth  initiatives  are  also  aimed 
at  promoting  peace,  harmony  and  respect.  As  part  of 
that  programme,  the  Sochi  Organizing  Committee 
is  devoting  a  great  deal  of  attention  to  working  with 
young people all over Russia, as well as internationally, 
while  drawing  their  attention  to  peace,  tolerance  and 
participation.
Going beyond the Games themselves, the IOC seeks 
to set examples of mutual understanding and solidarity. 
Through  the  programmes  run  by  Olympic  Solidarity, 
the  International  Sports  Federation  and  the  National 
Olympic  Committees,  we  emphasize  that  striving  for 
peace also requires sustainable development, solidarity 
and  support.  In  the  current  Olympiad,  the  Olympic 
family is investing more than $600 million into putting 
that solidarity into practice.
Precisely  because  many  of  our  principles  are 
the  same,  it  must  always  be  clear  in  the  relationship 
between  sport  and  politics  that  the  role  of  sport  is 
always to build bridges; it is never to build walls. Sport 
stands for dialogue and understanding, which transcend 
all  differences.  Sport,  and  the  Olympic  Movement 
especially, understands the global diversity of cultures, 
societies  and  life  designs  as  a  source  of  richness.  We 
never accuse or exclude anyone.
For  that  reason,  we  oppose  boycotts  of  any  kind. 
Boycotts are a fundamental contradiction to the spirit 
of sport, depriving it of the means to continue working 
for peace, mutual understanding and solidarity. This is 
even more true if sport is the sole instrument misused 
for the boycott, while political, economic and cultural 
relations continue as normal.
If  the  IOC  and  the  United  Nations  stand  side  by 
side  in  this  partnership,  understood  in  this  way,  even 
13-54989
19/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
more  fruitful  cooperation  is  possible,  in  particular  in 
the  areas  of  education,  development,  integration  and 
efforts for peace.
Sport is not just physical activity; it promotes health 
and helps prevent, or even cure, the diseases of modern 
civilization.  It  is  also  an  educational  tool  that  fosters 
cognitive  development,  teaches  social  behaviour  and 
helps to integrate communities. For that reason, we offer 
even more intensive dialogue with the United Nations 
and its agencies, in particular UNESCO. Education and 
learning are the keys to the future of all our societies.
Mens sana in corpore sano. That old Latin phrase 
puts the idea in a nutshell — a healthy mind in a healthy 
body.  I  therefore  plead  for  the  educational  asset  that 
sport represents and that the teaching of values through 
sport  be  included  in  school  curriculums  all  over  the 
world.  Both  our  organizations  feel  obliged  to  help 
young people enjoy a better future. The IOC therefore 
welcomes the Secretary-General’s United Nations youth 
strategy  and  the  appointment  of  the  Envoy  on  Youth. 
We are thankful for the contribution of United Nations 
agencies  to  the  Culture  and  Education  Programme  at 
the Youth Olympic Games.
In  order  to  work  together  even  more  closely,  we 
suggest  enhancing  our  cooperation  with  respect  to 
sport  as  an  instrument  for  development  and  peace. 
We  applaud  the  General  Assembly’s  historic  decision 
in  August  to  establish  the  International  Day  of  Sport 
for Development and Peace (resolution 67/296). In that 
context, the General Assembly recalled the IOC’s role 
in promoting healthy lifestyles and creating access to 
sport  for  as  many  people  as  possible.  Sport  promotes 
integration;  it  boosts  self-esteem  and  joie  de  vivre, 
which  can  play  an  important  role  in  the  integration 
of  societies,  including  in  crisis  areas,  where  the  IOC 
works  with  humanitarian  and  development  agencies. 
We are prepared to do even more. The integrative power 
of sport can work its magic in crisis areas, helping to 
build  understanding  and  reconciliation  while,  at  the 
same time, improving quality of life.
All such measures can be ways to build a better and 
more  peaceful  world.  We  know,  of  course,  that,  as  in 
ancient Greece, sport and the Olympic Games cannot 
on their own solve political problems or achieve peace. 
Peacebuilding is a long process. Sport wants to be part of 
that process. We are aware of our limits, but we want to 
use the power of our values and symbols to promote the 
positive, peaceful development of global society. Those 
symbols, and in particular the peaceful competition at 
the  Olympic  Games,  should  inspire  all  people.  They 
should show that rivalries and disputes can be resolved 
peacefully. They should show that people can transcend 
all boundaries by agreeing on universal rules to govern 
human  competition  and  resolve  conflicts.  For  that 
reason, the Olympic Truce is of particular significance. 
We set great store by that common endeavour, which is 
such a splendid example of how, through partnership, 
politics and sport can complement each other.
We  are  grateful  to  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  fruitful  cooperation  that 
has  been  built  on  trust.  Together  with  the  political 
authorities, the IOC wishes to set an example for peace 
and solidarity in the quest for a more humane society. 
Our  partnership  clearly 
that  Olympic 
principles  are  United  Nations  principles.  Let  us  work 
together to make those universal principles a reality,
illustrates 
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 11.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/68/L.8.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  Sporting  events,  and 
above all the Olympic Games, provide us with a unique 
opportunity  to  celebrate  the  supremacy  of  peace  over 
conflict  and  the  pre-eminence  of  friendship  over 
hostility.  The  peaceful  spirit  and  ritual  in  which  the 
Games  were  held  in  ancient  Greece  28  centuries  ago 
still  inspire  and  encourage  all  countries  to  be  part 
of  such  a  special  experience  every  four  years.  They 
contribute to an atmosphere of tolerance, solidarity and 
confidence among different peoples and nations.
today  not 
that  explains  our  decision 
It is precisely that noble character of the Olympic 
Games 
to 
undermine the consensual nature of the draft resolution 
(A/68/L.8)  introduced  today.  Yet,  while  we  all  have 
once  again  reaffirmed  our  willingness  to  further  the 
role of sport in building a peaceful and safe world, we 
need to acknowledge that, unfortunately, reality often 
casts a shadow on our declared aspirations. Not only is 
the very notion of the Olympic Truce being distorted, 
the  Olympics  are  also  being  used  to  divert  attention 
20/22 
13-54989
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.44
from acts of violence and military aggression and veil 
abuses and violations of human rights and freedoms.
While  we  are  looking  forward  to  once  again 
reviving  the  Olympic  Truce,  we  need  to  remember 
that  only  40  kilometres  from  Sochi,  an  occupation  is 
taking  place;  indeed,  the  country  hosting  the  Games 
continues to occupy 20 per cent of Georgia’s sovereign 
territory in violation of the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  my  country.  In  addition,  while  in  the 
draft  resolution  we  recognize  that  the  Olympic  Truce 
provides humanitarian opportunities, it is important to 
consider that, in fact, the occupied regions of Georgia 
are still blocked for humanitarian access and the local 
population is deprived of humanitarian assistance.
Despite 
the  crucial  political, 
security  and 
humanitarian  context,  the  Government  of  Georgia 
opted  for  the  depoliticization  of  the  Olympics,  the 
idea of which is founded on peace and should lead to 
cooperation. In October 2012, the new Government of 
Georgia  made  a  difficult  decision  to  stop  boycotting 
the Sochi Olympics. Furthermore, that decision showed 
the Government of Georgia’s willingness to de-escalate 
the  existing  crisis  between  Russia  and  Georgia  and 
normalize  relations  in  humanitarian  or  people-to-
people spheres.
Unfortunately,  in  January  2013,  shortly  after  the 
declaration  of  Georgia’s  constructive  decision,  the 
occupation  forces  began  the  large-scale  installation 
of  barbed-wire  fences  and  embankments  along  the 
occupation line in the Tskhinvali and Abkhazia regions 
of Georgia. Those illegal activities significantly affect 
the livelihoods of the local population, divide families 
and  communities,  prevent  people-to-people  contacts, 
and  deprive  the  people  of  their  fundamental  rights 
and  freedoms.  We  hope  that  the  installation  of  the 
aforementioned artificial obstacles will not be resumed 
and will be reversed.
that, 
in  response 
to 
We  further  regret 
the 
Government  of  Georgia’s  demonstration  of  goodwill, 
Moscow  decided  to  use  the  Olympic  Games  for 
political purposes and opted for still more provocative 
acts,  including  naming  “the  August  war  hero”,  pilot 
Ivan  Nechaev  —  so  called  because  of  his  excellence 
in  bombing  Georgian  villages  —  one  of  the  Olympic 
torchbearers.  Such  a  politicized  approach 
totally 
disregards  and  contradicts  the  genesis  of  the  draft 
resolution.
However,  despite  the  difficult  political  context 
and  notwithstanding  the  destabilizing  process  and 
provocative acts illustrated heretofore, Georgia remains 
fully  committed  to  its  peaceful  and  constructive 
approach, the spirit of the present draft resolution and 
the common international interest. We are therefore not 
going to break the consensus and remain in favour of 
the draft resolution.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the only speaker in explanation of vote before the 
voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.8,  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development:  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like to announce that since the submission of the draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/68/L.8,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania, 
Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, 
Benin,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  Costa  Rica, 
the Czech Republic, the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Haiti, 
Iceland, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Jamaica, 
Jordan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Malaysia,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Seychelles, 
the Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkmenistan, 
Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam and Zimbabwe.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to adopt draft 
resolution A/68/L.8?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 68/9).
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of Brazil.
Mr.  De  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  As  the  first 
country to sponsor the text contained in resolution 66/5, 
“Sport for peace and development: building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal,” 
13-54989
21/22
A/68/PV.44 
06/11/2013
adopted  by  consensus  in  October  2011,  and  adopted 
once  again  here  today  in  resolution  68/9,  Brazil  is 
committed to the promotion of sports as an instrument 
for  development  and  peace.  Sports  are  deeply  rooted 
in Brazilian culture and society, and our Constitution 
recognizes its practice as a fundamental social right.
We  find  ourselves  at  the  beginning  of  a  sports-
centred  decade.  In  the  next  few  years,  Brazil  will 
host  important  mega-events:  the  World  Cup  of  the 
International  Federation  of  Association  Football,  in 
2014, and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016. 
The decision to host those events took into account not 
only their positive impact on disseminating the Olympic 
ideals 
throughout  Brazilian  society,  particularly 
among  youth,  but  also  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development and social inclusiveness. The preparation 
process  for  those  events  includes  sensitizing  and 
educating the public on the need to promote diversity 
and to combat racism and discrimination. 
At the twenty-fourth session of the Human Rights 
Council  in  September,  Brazil  was  a  member  of  the 
core  group  that  presented  resolution  24/1,  entitled 
“Promoting  human  rights  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”, adopted by consensus with more than 
130  sponsors.  The  resolution  recognizes  sport  as  a 
universal language that can help educate people on the 
values of respect, diversity, tolerance and fairness. It is 
an important tool in the fight against discrimination of 
any kind.
Brazil  is  a  strong  advocate  for  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  17/19  on  human  rights,  sexual 
orientation and gender identity, and an active member 
of  the  LGBT  core  group  at  the  United  Nations.  In 
September,  Brazil  took  a  decisive  stand  in  support  of 
the  joint  ministerial  declaration  on  ending  violence 
and  discrimination  against  individuals  based  on  their 
sexual orientation and gender identity. In the spirit of 
building a peaceful world through sports and without 
discrimination,  we  will  welcome  the  world  to  our 
country as host of the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 
Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2016.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  One 
representative  has  asked  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply. I would remind him that, in accordance 
with General Assembly decision 34/401, statements in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second intervention and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  We  are  compelled  to  exercise  our  right  to 
reply  to  the  statement  made  by  Georgia.  Only  a  few 
minutes ago, the President of the International Olympic 
Committee (IOC) said that we should refrain from the 
political  exploitation  of  sports.  Unfortunately,  that 
appeal  was  not  heard  by  the  delegation  of  Georgia. 
We  regret  that  even  as  we  discuss  the  theme  of  the 
Olympic  Truce,  which  is  by  definition  is  a  uniter  of 
people, the Georgian delegation could not refrain from 
its habitual attacks on Russia. That may be explained 
by the fact that it was Georgia itself that, on the eve of 
the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, launched an attack 
on  the  people  of  South  Ossetia  and  even  on  Russian 
peacekeepers. 
Now, instead of showing the political will and desire 
to normalize the situation in the region, and instead of 
using this unique opportunity to show its respect for the 
tradition of the Olympic Truce, the Georgian delegation 
has  once  again  resorted  to  fabricated  reasons  for 
unjustified accusations against the Russian Federation. 
We repudiate all of them. The Russian Federation has 
always followed the ideals and principles of the Olympic 
Charter and has strictly followed the rules of the IOC 
regulating the organization of the Olympic Games.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  stress  that,  despite 
Georgia’s attempts to wage political battle against the 
Sochi  Olympic  Games,  its  athletes  and  fans  will  be 
received in Sochi with all the respect that they deserve.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 11.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
22/22 
13-54989
