United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
12th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 September 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.12
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Address by Mr. Donald Rabindranauth Ramotar, 
President of the Republic of Guyana
The President: The Assembly will hear an address 
by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guyana,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar, 
President of the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Ramotar: My delegation and I warmly 
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the 
high office of President of the General Assembly. I salute 
you as a distinguished son of our Caribbean community 
and  I  pledge  Guyana’s  unwavering  support  towards 
the  successful  execution  of  your  important  duties.  I 
would also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, His 
Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for his valuable service to 
the Organization. And I take this occasion to reiterate 
our  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his leadership and dedication to 
the United Nations.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express 
our  solidarity  with  and  deepest  condolences  to  the 
Government  and  people  of  Kenya  in  the  wake  of  the 
recent terrorist attacks there, which resulted in the loss 
of life and great pain to the people of that nation.
Barely 800 days remain until the deadline for the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  reached 
and  a  post-2015  development  agenda  launched.  It  is 
appropriate,  therefore,  that  the  Assembly  has  been 
invited to focus its attention on the theme of “The post-
2015 development agenda: setting the stage”. A review 
of our experience to date will reveal that the world as 
a whole has witnessed substantial progress towards the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
However, prospects vary significantly within and across 
countries and regions, and a large number of countries 
are likely to come short in achieving the Goals.
Health  and  education  challenges  threaten  the 
sustainability  of  hard-earned  socioeconomic  gains. 
Today, still more than 1 billion people live in extreme 
poverty and one in eight persons on the planet — among 
them  200  million  children  —  suffer  from  chronic 
undernourishment. In addition, we still have 57 million 
children  who  are  out  of  school.  This  needs  to  be 
urgently corrected. We must also pay special attention 
to  the  quality  of  education  in  order  to  develop  a 
generation of global citizens who are capable of rising 
to  the  challenges  of  the  future.  To  this  end,  Guyana 
supports  the  Secretary-General’s  Global  Education 
First  Initiative  as  an  instrument  for  the  development 
of  meaningful  solutions  to  the  challenges  regarding 
access to and quality of education.
If  we  are  to  make  this  world  a  better  place  for 
everyone, we must also address the issue of inequality. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48656 (E)
*1348656*
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
Income  distribution  continues  to  be  skewed  in  favour 
of  the  rich  nations  and  rich  persons  within  nations. 
This gap has grown dangerously wide. Needless to say, 
inequality leads to great discontent and social unrest. 
At the heart of many of the conflicts we see today is 
the  widening  gap  between  the  haves  and  have-nots. 
Sometimes  this  is  not  readily  visible,  as  the  fight 
for  social  and  economic  justice  is  often  clouded  by 
inter-ethnic, interreligious and other types of conflicts.
To  defend  the  gains  that  we  have  made  and  to 
expand further, it is necessary for the United Nations 
to  focus  on  narrowing  the  gaps  in  income,  access  to 
social  services,  infrastructure,  land  distribution  and 
other critical areas. If there is one lesson to be drawn 
from  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, it is that addressing inequality is crucial to the 
achievement of sustainable development objectives. The 
approach adumbrated in the resolution on a new global 
human order (resolution 65/120) remains relevant in the 
struggle to eradicate poverty and inequality and indeed 
the post-2015 development agenda.
In  setting  the  stage  for  a  post-2015  agenda,  we 
must build on and expand the gains made. To this end, 
we must create an international environment that will 
facilitate the achievement of the goals that we will set 
for the future. Central to our efforts must be the focus 
on world peace. Peace and development are inseparable. 
Peace  will  be  realized  only  if  international  law  and 
the  rights  of  nations  and  their  sovereignty  are  always 
respected and upheld.
It is in this regard that I wish to view the situation 
in  the  Middle  East.  At  the  moment,  Syria  is  at  the 
centre of our collective concern. The war in that sister 
nation  has  taken  thousands  of  innocent  lives.  It  is  an 
illusion to believe that military intervention will bring 
peace to that country. What is badly needed is political 
dialogue  among  the  Syrian  parties.  The  international 
community  also  has  an  important  role  to  play.  We 
welcome the agreement between Russia and the United 
States  that  will  facilitate  the  destruction  of  chemical 
weapons  held  in  Syria.  We  call  on  all  countries  that 
possess such weapons to do the same. We hope too, that 
terrorist forces operating in Syria will withdraw. After 
all, they cannot be terrorists when they were fighting 
in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  but  freedom  fighters  when 
fighting the Syrian Government. A terrorist is simply 
a terrorist.
In the same way, let me say that a blow was struck 
against democracy when the coup took place in Egypt. 
However, the major world Powers, instead of condemning 
the use of such means to change Governments, chose 
to  remain  silent.  This  gave  tacit  support  to  the  coup, 
which  has  led  to  violations  of  human  rights  and  loss 
of  innocent  lives,  and  may  lead  to  more  protests  and 
possibly  violence  and  death.  Nevertheless,  it  is  our 
fervent  hope  that  the  people  of  that  great  brotherly 
country and their leaders, regardless of their political 
persuasion, will find a peaceful way out of the present 
difficulties.
Moreover,  peace  in  the  Middle  East  will  not  be 
realized until we have a just solution to the Palestinian 
tragedy. The Palestinian people have the right to their 
own  country.  We  support  them  in  their  quest  for  the 
right  to  live  in  peace  and  in  an  independent,  viable 
Palestinian State.
Turning to our own region, allow me to underscore 
that the blockade against our sister Caribbean country 
Cuba  has  caused  serious  damage  to  that  country’s 
economy  and  continues  to  be  a  major  obstacle  to 
development.  We  join  the  call  for  a  lifting  of  the 
blockade and the removal of the burden that it places on 
the Cuban people.
The adoption in April of the landmark Arms Trade 
Treaty  opens  the  door  to  effective  regulation  of  the 
international  trade  in  conventional  arms.  For  us  in 
the Caribbean, the Treaty bears relevance not only to 
the safety and security of our citizens and to the fight 
against  transnational  crime,  but  also,  in  an  important 
way, to our overall pursuit of sustainable development. 
The funnelling of guns into our societies is a menace 
that  must  be  curbed  in  order  to  preserve  our  young 
people and our future. As one of the first countries to 
ratify  the  Treaty,  Guyana  urges  all  States  to  work  to 
assure its early entry into force.
While peace is vital to development, let me hasten 
to  add  that  socioeconomic  progress  coupled  with 
democracy  is  crucial  to  the  preservation  of  peace. 
Central to these principles are our people. They remain 
the  most  important  factor  for  development.  That  is 
why  my  country  has  been  increasingly  investing  in 
the development of our people. An examination of our 
national budget will reveal that some 30 per cent of our 
expenditure  goes  to  the  social  sector.  As  a  result,  we 
have  managed  to  achieve  several  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  well  before  the  time  envisaged. 
We have achieved universal primary education and are 
close to achieving universal secondary education. 
2/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
We  have  also  slashed  poverty  by  more  than  half. 
Moreover,  according  to  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, we are one of the 
few countries in the world that have not only reduced 
poverty but also improved nutrition. The eradication of 
poverty and the promotion of sustainable development 
must  become  a  key  principle  and  objective  of  global 
economic governance and a guidepost for the action of 
international financial and trade institutions.
While  I  speak  of  these  achievements,  I  would 
be  remiss  if  I  did  not  point  out  the  grave  challenges 
confronting  us  even  as  we  seek  to  build  on  the 
foundations  that  have  already  been  laid.  We  in  the 
Caribbean have experienced major setbacks due to the 
international economic and financial crises that started 
in  North  America  and  Europe.  While  it  appears  that 
those  two  regions  are  emerging  from  the  crises,  the 
effects  continue  to  be  devastating  in  the  Caribbean. 
Even as we continue to grapple with the effects of the 
financial crisis, we are now faced with the graduation 
and differentiation imposed by some of our international 
partners. 
We  are  told  that  as  middle-income  countries, 
measured by per capita gross domestic product (GDP), 
we  are  no  longer  entitled  to  concessionary  financing. 
This is a recipe for reversing the gains made over the 
years of hard work and sacrifice. We call for a rethink 
of  that  position  and  urge  that  greater  consideration 
be  given  to  the  special  vulnerabilities  of  our  region, 
where a country can see its entire GDP wiped out by 
a single hurricane or, as in our country in 2005, when 
60 per cent of its GDP was wiped out because of floods. 
Clearly what we need is increased cooperation with the 
international community and our development partners, 
and not less.
Another 
sustainable 
development  is  the  impact  of  climate  change.  This  is 
even more the case for small island developing States, 
which are represented in the Assembly. Some of them 
face an imminent passage to oblivion. Climate change is 
not of our making but, sadly, as small island developing 
States  and  low-lying  coastal  States,  we  remain  the 
victims  of  its  most  adverse  impacts.  Unfortunately, 
instead of a reduction in the emissions of greenhouse 
gases, there has been a rise of nearly 50 per cent. This 
marked failure to take decisive action poses a threat to 
all humankind. It is tragic that while we all know that 
dangers  that  lurk  due  to  global  warming  and  climate 
change,  we  seem  incapable  of  stopping  ourselves. 
serious 
challenge 
to 
We  therefore  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  convene  a  summit  on  climate  change,  and 
hope that it will result in a strong political consensus 
for addressing this paramount challenge of our time.
We  welcome  the  observance  of  2014  as  the 
International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States, 
and  call  on  the  international  community  to  seize  the 
chance  to  take  a  serious  approach  to  meaningfully 
assist such States, in particular in relation to building 
resilience  and  disaster  risk  management.  To  that  end, 
a  special  fund  must  be  established  and  made  easily 
accessible.
In setting the stage for the post-2015 development 
agenda,  we  believe  that  we  should  intensify  efforts 
to  eradicate  poverty.  The  United  Nations  must  not 
allow  that  objective  to  be  lost  among  the  many  other 
demands that exist. The United Nations also has a role 
to play in ensuring that the poorer, smaller developing 
countries  are  not  always  put  at  a  disadvantage  at  the 
level  of  international  economic  discourse  and  action. 
It  is  critical  that  this  body  pursue  and  encourage 
multilateral  approaches  to  international  and  global 
problems.  Experience  has  shown  that  even  though 
the  multilateral  approach  is  often  slow,  it  is  the  only 
approach that can lead to lasting peace, democracy and 
justice in our world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Guyana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Rabindranauth  Ramotar,  President 
of the Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Namibia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of the 
Republic of Namibia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Pohamba: Last week a heinous terrorist 
attack was perpetrated against the Republic of Kenya, 
13-48656
3/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
resulting  in  the  death  and  injury  of  dozens  innocent 
civilians  as  well  as  the  destruction  of  property.  We 
condemn this senseless attack and express our fraternal 
solidarity with the people of Kenya.
When 
the  Millennium  Summit  adopted 
The  theme  for  the  sixty-eighth  session  is  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  It 
echoes the words of the Preamble to the Charter of the 
United Nations: “to promote social progress and better 
standards  of  life  in  larger  freedom”.  As  leaders,  we 
are  therefore  challenged  to  ensure  that  the  post-2015 
development agenda promotes sustainable development 
and a secure future for current and future generations.
the 
Millennium Development Goals in 2000, it emphasized 
the urgency of making the world a better place for all 
humanity. That promise gave hope to millions who live 
in abject poverty and deprivation in many parts of the 
world. As we approach the 2015 deadline, we should ask 
ourselves whether we have lived up to the commitments 
that  we  made  in  2000.  We  believe  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  should  be  people-centred  and 
inclusive, with a focus on the provision of health care, 
education, food security and nutrition, energy, potable 
water, gender equality and the empowerment of women, 
young people and people with disabilities.
of 
change 
The 
climate 
challenges 
and 
environmental  conservation  should  continue  to  be 
a  focus  of  our  attention.  During  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  2012,  we 
made commitments to create a new global partnership 
characterized by a new spirit of solidarity, cooperation 
and mutual accountability. The outcome document of the 
Conference, entitled “The future we want” (resolution 
66/288,  annex),  identified  poverty  eradication  as  the 
greatest global challenge facing the world today and an 
indispensable requirement for sustainable development.
As I speak, the eleventh session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention 
to  Combat  Desertification  is  about  to  conclude  its 
deliberations 
in  our  capital  city,  Windhoek.  We 
believe that the outcome of the Conference will further 
strengthen  the  Convention’s  role  in  mitigating  the 
effects of desertification and droughts, particularly on 
the continent of Africa.
While 
developing 
have  made 
commendable  advances  in  the  areas  of  social  and 
economic  development,  many  challenges  remain. 
Namibia holds the view that the post-2015 development 
countries 
agenda  should  take  into  account  the  valid  concerns 
and  challenges  faced  by  middle-income  countries, 
such as access to grants and concessional funding for 
developmental  purposes.  The  post-2015  development 
agenda  should  also  embrace 
the  protection  of 
fundamental human rights and freedoms, the rule of law 
and the maintenance of international peace and security. 
I  wish  to  emphasize  that  sustainable  development 
requires adequate and predictable financing at the local 
and international levels.
Namibia is concerned about the conflict situations 
and  growing  instability  in  many  parts  of  the  world. 
We  welcome  the  signing  of  the  Peace,  Security  and 
Cooperation  Framework  for  the  Democratic  Republic 
of Congo and the Region. Namibia urges all signatories 
to  the  Framework  to  work  together  in  good  faith 
towards  its  full  implementation.  We  commend  the 
efforts of the Intervention Brigade to restore peace in 
the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo and call on 
the international community to give its full support to 
achieving  the  success  of  that  important  mission.  We 
also appeal to the international community to provide 
humanitarian assistance to the communities affected by 
the conflict.
Namibia  welcomes  the  decision  of  Madagascar’s 
reformed  special  electoral  court,  paving  the  way  for 
holding presidential and parliamentary elections there 
next month. We call on the international community to 
provide  the  financial,  technical  and  logistical  support 
necessary for those elections to be successful.
Our  Government  continues  to  support  the  efforts 
of the African Union (AU), through the African Union 
Mission in Somalia, to stabilize the situation in Somalia.
The  Southern  African  Development  Community 
and  AU  election  observer  missions  have  declared 
the  harmonized  elections  that  recently  took  place  in 
Zimbabwe  to  be  free,  peaceful  and  credible.  In  that 
context, Namibia calls for the unconditional lifting of 
all sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe.
We welcome the holding of democratic elections in 
Mali and congratulate President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita 
on his election. We commend the Economic Community 
of West African States and other international partners 
for  the  leading  role  they  have  played  in  resolving  the 
crisis in that country.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our  steadfast 
solidarity with the people of Cuba, who have endured 
4/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
harsh conditions due to the illegal economic blockade 
imposed  on  their  country.  We  once  again  call  for  the 
unconditional lifting of the embargo on Cuba.
The  attainment  of  self-determination  of  peoples 
living under foreign occupation is one of the principles 
that this Organization was founded on. In that regard, 
we reaffirm our solidarity with the people of Western 
Sahara, and call for the implementation of the United 
Nations settlement plan for that country. Similarly, we 
call for the implementation of relevant United Nations 
resolutions on Palestine.
Namibia  condemns  the  use  of  chemical  weapons 
against the civilian population in Syria, as confirmed 
by  the  United  Nations  inspectors.  We  welcome  the 
agreement reached between the Russian Federation and 
the United States of America to place Syrian chemical 
weapons under the control of the Organization for the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons.  We  also  support 
the efforts of the Joint Special Envoy of the Secretary-
General  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  to  help  the 
Syrian parties find a peaceful solution to the conflict 
in their country.
The process of reforming the United Nations system, 
especially the Security Council, must be accelerated in 
order to make it representative and democratic.
This session of the General Assembly presents an 
historic opportunity for the international community to 
take  concrete  steps  to  eradicate  poverty  and  enhance 
international  peace  and  security  in  order  to  create  a 
world  free  of  want,  as  envisaged  in  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Let  us  summon  the  necessary 
political will to act now.
I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and 
assure you of the full support of my delegation.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Namibia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Anastasiades:  It  is  a  great  honour  to 
address the General Assembly for the first time in my 
capacity as President of the Republic of Cyprus.
international  organizations, 
While it is realistic and pragmatic to acknowledge 
that  in  an  anarchic  international  system  the  political 
and  economic  leverage  and  might  of  States,  or  even 
of 
asymmetric 
and  unequal,  one  should  never  forget  the  founding 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  Organization,  which 
were  formulated  as  a  result  of  the  traumatic  historic 
experiences of two world wars. 
are 
Bearing 
in  mind 
the  aim  of  promoting 
the 
fundamental United Nations principles, I would like to 
share my deep concern regarding what is happening in 
various parts of the world, threatening the sovereignty of 
States and regional and global stability through, among 
other things, acts of State violence, acts of terrorism, 
the infringement and calling into question of sovereign 
rights  enjoyed  by  States,  the  annexation  of  territories 
through  the  illegal  use  of  force,  the  production  and 
use  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the  sponsoring 
and harbouring of secessionist or terrorist movements, 
religious fundamentalism manifested through terrorist 
attacks, the forcible displacement of millions of people, 
and  hunger  and  distress,  which  intensify  migration 
flows and create demographic changes.
These  are  but  a  few  examples  that  bear  out  the 
need  to  evaluate,  through  collective  debate  and  self-
assessment,  whether  the  United  Nations  principles, 
values and methods have indeed contributed to what we 
have all been hoping for — the maintenance of peace 
and security and respect for the fundamental freedoms 
and human rights of all people.
I am not a romantic ideologist; quite the contrary, 
I am a pragmatic realist who acknowledges that in this 
imperfect world it is extremely difficult, even impossible, 
to expect the full and unquestioning implementation of 
United  Nations  principles  and  values.  However,  what 
is  happening  today  risks  overthrowing  the  current 
13-48656
5/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
world  order,  calling  into  question  the  relevance  and 
effectiveness of this international Organization.
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
It is not my intention to cast doubt on or minimize 
the multidimensional contribution of the United Nations 
to a plethora of cases over the past seven decades. What 
is important is to enhance the Organization’s role and 
safeguard  the  effectiveness  of  its  decisions,  as  well 
as  its  actions.  Should  decisions  or  resolutions  based 
on international law condemning violations of human 
rights  not  be  implemented  or  enforced,  that  could  be 
seen  as  fostering  or  even  rewarding  arbitrariness.  In 
that  case,  regional  differences  and  conflicts  could  be 
prolonged indefinitely, serving the petty interests and 
expedience  of  their  perpetrators  at  the  expense  of 
international law and our universal principles.
I do not intend to enter into detail of what we are 
witnessing  and  experiencing  every  day  in  different 
parts  of  the  world.  I  will  limit  myself  to  the  example 
of my own country, a small European country that has 
for  almost  40  years  been  violently  divided,  despite 
numerous  Security  Council  resolutions  calling  for  its 
reunification  and  the  withdrawal  of  the  occupation 
forces.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  assure  the  General 
Assembly that, despite the current economic difficulties 
we  are  facing,  I  am  committed  to  working  tirelessly 
and  with  determination  to  reach  a  viable  and  lasting 
settlement so that all the communities of Cyprus may 
live and thrive in a modern European country that fully 
respects the values and principles of the United Nations 
and  the  European  Union,  safeguards  the  fundamental 
freedoms  and  human  rights  of  all  its  people,  and 
ensures  their  peaceful  coexistence  and  prosperous 
collaboration.
As  I  have  already  conveyed  to  the  Secretary-
General, it is my firm belief that the current status quo 
is  unacceptable  and  that  its  prolongation  would  have 
further  negative  consequences  for  Greek  and  Turkish 
Cypriots. Therefore, a comprehensive settlement is not 
only  desirable,  but  should  not  be  further  delayed.  In 
that  respect,  I  wish,  as  a  leader  with  a  sincere  vision 
of reuniting my country, to once more call on Turkey 
and our Cypriot compatriots to demonstrate the same 
determination and commitment and become partners in 
the effort for the reunification of a peaceful, secure and 
prosperous homeland.
The reference made by the President of the Republic 
of  Turkey,  Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  in  this  very  Hall  (see 
A/68/PV.5) to the 2004 proposal that, through genuine 
democratic  procedures,  was  not  accepted  by  the  vast 
majority of Greek Cypriots for a number of substantive 
reasons,  does  not  absolve  Turkey  from  its  obligations 
and responsibilities concerning the efforts to find a just 
solution and does not truly reflect the realities on the 
ground,  as  borne  out  by  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions.
Nonetheless,  I  welcome  the  decision  of  Turkey  to 
respond positively to my proposal to hold meetings with 
the negotiator of the Greek Cypriot community. I hope, 
and at the same time expect, that this positive response 
will be followed by practical and substantial steps and 
the adoption of a constructive attitude, guided by good 
faith, that will contribute effectively towards reaching 
a settlement.
In  that  respect,  it  is  my  strong  belief  that  it  is  of 
paramount  significance  that  a  dynamic  impetus  be 
launched, either before or even during the negotiating 
process, in order to restore the confidence of the people 
of Cyprus in the prospect of reaching a settlement. Such 
an impetus can be achieved only through the adoption 
of  bold  measures  that  are  seen  as  game-changers  and 
as  creating  a  win-win  situation,  not  only  for  both 
communities but also for all interested stakeholders.
With  that  in  mind,  I  have  submitted  a  package 
proposal that, among other things, includes the return 
of the ghost city of Famagusta to its lawful inhabitants, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  line 
with Security Council resolution 550 (1984). The return 
of  Famagusta,  along  with  the  evident  advantage  of 
reviving  the  hope  of  the  people  of  Cyprus,  will  also 
provide  a  number  of  benefits.  The  infrastructural 
restoration  of  a  city  that  has  been  uninhabited  for  39 
years will undoubtedly lead to the creation of new jobs 
in  a  wide  variety  of  professional  fields,  providing  a 
major boost to the economy of the country. At the same 
time,  by  working  together,  building  mutual  trust  and 
enjoying  the  results  of  joint  collaboration,  Greek  and 
Turkish Cypriots will come closer to the realization of 
the  benefits  of  sharing  together  a  prosperous  future, 
just as we have done in the past.
this  proposal,  which 
I believe that the Assembly shares my assessment 
that 
to 
the  negotiating  process,  is  to  the  benefit  of  both 
communities  and  that  its  acceptance  would  provide  a 
much-needed  stimulus  to  the  prospect  of  reaching  a 
is  complementary 
6/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
settlement. At the same time, in order to avoid entering 
into a new frustrating negotiating process, the time for 
the start of the negotiations is not as important as that 
they  be  conducted  in  a  comprehensive  manner  with 
clear substance, aims and targets. 
To that end, I consider it essential that, before the 
start of the negotiating process, it be clearly established 
that  the  basis  and  solution  to  be  reached  will  adhere 
to  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  the  high-
level  agreements  and  the  evolving  transformation  of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus  into  a  bi-zonal,  bi-communal 
federal  State  with  a  single  international  personality, 
single  sovereignty  and  single  citizenship.  Moreover, 
the settlement must embody our capacity as a European 
Union  (EU)  member  State  and  fully  enshrine  its 
values and principles by enhancing the role of the EU 
in  the  negotiating  process.  I  have  to  clarify  that  such 
a  role  played  by  the  European  Union  would  merely 
supplement  and  complement  the  United  Nations  good 
offices  mission  in  order  to  guarantee  not  only  our 
effective  and  efficient  participation  in  the  European 
Union,  through  the  proper  implementation  of  the 
acquis  communautaire,  but  also  the  restoration  of  the 
fundamental freedoms and human rights of all Cypriots.
Last  but  not  least,  an  important  humanitarian 
aspect  of  the  Cyprus  problem  is  the  issue  of  missing 
persons.  We  salute  the  progress  achieved  so  far.  The 
issue must be resolved as soon as possible, regardless 
of the developments in the negotiations.
The  positive  and  stabilizing  role  that  Cyprus  can 
assume  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean  —  especially 
in  the  areas  of  combatting  terrorism,  fighting  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  —has  in  the  past 
few  months  received  extensive  recognition.  Keeping 
Cyprus  peaceful  and  stable  and  maintaining 
its 
constructive regional role is a primary objective of my 
Government.  We  have  proven  that  we  are  a  reliable 
and  interconnecting  bridge  between  Europe,  North 
Africa  and  the  Near  and  Middle  Easts —  in  terms  of 
both  perception  and  actions  —  as  well  as  a  credible 
and  stable  country  that  gives  true  credence  to  being 
a  safe  haven.  That  has  been  demonstrated  in  practice 
several times during periods of massive humanitarian 
evacuations. We stand ready once more, if it is deemed 
necessary — and hopefully it will not be — to contribute 
in  a  substantive  manner  to  any  international  call  to 
provide humanitarian aid and facilities to the nationals 
of any third country.
A recent and most encouraging development in our 
area is taking place in the field of energy cooperation. 
The  very  promising  potential  of  hydrocarbon 
exploration  in  the  Levantine  basin  requires  that  all 
countries in the region work closely together, bilaterally 
and regionally. Pertinent to that and a testament to our 
constructive role in the region is the fact that Cyprus 
has  assumed  a  leading  role  in  bringing  neighbouring 
hydrocarbon-producing  countries 
together,  seeking 
opportunities  not  only 
for  maritime  boundary 
agreements, but also for joint efforts in exploring those 
hydrocarbon resources. Energy, in my opinion, should 
be not a source of conflict, but a catalyst for conflict 
resolution and regional integration.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  framework 
has  galvanized  unparalleled  development  efforts  and 
guided global and national development priorities since 
2000. While three of the eight Goals have been achieved 
prior  to  the  final  deadline,  much  work  remains  to  be 
done ahead of 2015. With only two years left, enhanced 
commitment, resources and efforts are needed, as is a 
coordinated and integrated approach that can contribute 
to accelerating progress towards the achievement of all 
the Millennium Goals.
As a small island State facing particular challenges, 
we understand well why the coherence of all processes 
leading to a single and universal post-2015 development 
agenda  is  crucial.  New  and  emerging  asymmetric 
challenges  —  such  as  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters, terrorism, inequalities and the necessity for 
the prevalence of the rule of law, democracy and human 
rights —  require  renewed  and  collective  commitment 
and  an  effective  target-oriented  post-2015  framework 
with poverty eradication and sustainable development 
at its heart.
As the Secretary-General says in his report entitled 
“A life of dignity for all: accelerating progress towards 
the Millennium Development Goals and advancing the 
United Nations development agenda beyond 2015”, 
“the  world’s  quest  for  dignity,  peace,  prosperity, 
justice,  sustainability  and  an  end  to  poverty  has 
reached  an  unprecedented  moment  of  urgency” 
(A/68/202, para. 1)  “and the world’s nations must 
unite behind a common programme to act on those 
aspirations” (ibid., para. 120).
Cyprus  strongly  subscribes  to  the  joint  efforts  in 
fulfilling this task.
13-48656
7/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
A 
few  months  ago,  my  country 
received 
unprecedented 
international  attention  because  of 
the  economic  crisis.  I  am  proud  to  say  that,  due  to 
the  persistence,  determination  and  resilience  of  the 
people  of  Cyprus,  we  are  rising  to  the  challenge  and 
will soon lead our country to the path of recovery and 
growth.  My  political  vision  is  for  Cyprus  to  receive 
international  attention  yet  again,  but  this  time  for  all 
the right reasons.
This  points 
long-standing 
anachronistic  division  of  my  country,  in  line  with 
the  aspirations  of  our  people,  especially  the  younger 
generations,  to  coexist  peacefully  in  a  European 
country  that  fully  respects  their  fundamental  human 
rights  and  freedoms.  I  am  certain  that  all  will  agree 
that the reunification is in the interests not only of the 
people  of  Cyprus,  but  also  of  the  entire  international 
community,  since  a  solution  to  the  Cyprus  problem 
will undoubtedly have a very important spillover effect 
on  efforts  to  achieve  a  much-needed  environment  of 
stability, security and peace in our region.
to  an  end 
in 
the 
For  our  part,  we  are  determined  to  rise  to  the 
challenge  of  this  historic  responsibility  and  do  our 
utmost  with  the  aim  of  providing  a  more  stable, 
prosperous  and  conciliatory  future  in  our  immediate 
region, so that our legacy is remembered by generations 
to come.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Cyprus for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President 
of the Republic of Ghana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. John Dramani 
Mahama,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mahama:  It  is  with  a  heavy  heart  that 
I address the Assembly today. Just before I left Ghana 
to attend this general debate, I learned of the terrorist 
attack  that  took  place  in  Nairobi.  I  was  shocked  and 
deeply saddened to hear of the many lives that were lost 
to those senseless and cowardly acts of violence. As the 
death toll increased, so too did my grief, knowing that 
each  additional  number  symbolized  one  more  human 
life.  Those  numbers  symbolized  individuals  who 
may have been strangers to those of us here but were 
of  prime  significance  in  the  lives  of  the  people  who 
loved them — their parents, children, husbands, wives, 
friends and colleagues.
Soon  enough,  I  got  word  that  one  of  the  people 
massacred  was  a  person  of  significance  in  my  life 
and  in  the  lives  of  so  many  other  Ghanaians.  Kofi 
Awoonor was a 78-year-old gentleman who had served 
his country loyally as a poet and professor, ambassador 
to  Brazil  and  Cuba,  and  Chairman  of  our  Council  of 
State, a presidential advisory body. Professor Awoonor 
had once even been our country’s envoy to the United 
Nations.  On  this  fateful  day,  however,  Professor 
Awoonor  was  in  Nairobi  to  perform  his  poetry  at  a 
writers’  conference.  He  had  travelled  there  with  his 
son,  and  they  had  decided  before  the  day’s  scheduled 
events  to  do  what  should  have  been  one  of  the  most 
ordinary and uneventful of activities — to make a stop 
at a shopping mall.
Unfortunately,  what  happened  that  day  at  the 
Westgate  Premier  Shopping  Mall  was  anything  but 
ordinary.  Professor  Awoonor’s  life  was  taken  from 
him  and  those  who  loved  him,  just  as  the  lives  of 
dozens of others were taken away from them and their 
communities.  Each  of  them  had  a  unique  story  and 
accomplishments  or  aspirations  for  which  they  will 
be  remembered.  Professor  Awoonor’s  son,  though 
injured, was among the many who were lucky enough 
to escape the attack. It is a day they will never forget. 
They will carry the scars, physical and emotional, with 
them.  We  who  watched  from  a  distance  should  never 
allow  ourselves  to  forget,  because  we  have  also  been 
irrevocably marked by this tragedy.
When 
independence  was  upon  us  and  our 
possibilities  felt  endless,  the  world  saw  how  brightly 
Africa  could  shine.  Then,  for  decades,  that  light  was 
dimmed. There was a time when killing seemed almost 
8/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
commonplace  in  Africa.  Indeed,  there  are  plenty  of 
graves that remain unmarked. There was a time when 
the ruthlessness of dictators seemed to be the order of the 
day. For decades, the corruption, greed and depravity of 
a few caused the suffering of an entire continent. We so 
easily could have succumbed to the wars, the poverty 
and the diseases, but we did not. We staggered our way 
through, year after year, and eventually we made it. We 
have survived. 
Last year when I addressed the General Assembly 
(see A/67/PV.9), I began with the assurance that I had 
come  with  good  news  from  Ghana,  with  stories  of 
success from the African continent. This year, it gives 
me great pleasure to do the same — even on the heels 
of  the  dastardly  terrorist  attack  —  because  I  know 
that today’s Africa will not be divided or deterred by 
the  heinous  crimes  of  those  who  wish  to  disrupt  our 
progress.  I  know  that  our  borders  will  no  longer  be 
used  to  undermine  the  brotherhood  and  sisterhood  of 
our citizens. 
The  days  of  massacres  must  remain  in  our  past. 
Our rivers will no longer run red. Our children must be 
students now; we will no longer allow their childhoods 
to be stolen from them by those who wish to turn them 
into soldiers. Africa is standing tall, walking confidently 
towards political stability, walking confidently towards 
economic  prosperity,  walking  proudly  towards  ethnic 
and  religious  harmony  and  coexistence.  There  is  no 
place in today’s Africa for hatred and intolerance and 
the murder of innocent people — not anymore, not ever 
again.  So  we  will  mourn  our  dead.  We  will  console 
ourselves and each other through our grief. We cannot 
allow  terror  to  defeat  us.  That  must  strengthen  our 
resolve. Our stride will not be broken.
Last year from this stage, I also declared Ghana’s 
resolve to be a beacon of peace and democracy in the 
West African subregion. On behalf of the citizens whom 
I  serve,  I  promised  the  world  that  Ghana  would  not 
allow its territory to be used in any manner whatsoever 
to destabilize other nations. Ghana has been steadfast 
in  its  cooperation  with  its  regional  neighbours  to 
maintain the security of those nations that are enjoying 
stability  and  to  restore  security  to  those,  such  as 
Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Mali,  that  have  recently  emerged 
from turmoil. Currently, Côte d’Ivoire is in a stage of 
rebuilding. The recent overtures towards reconciliation 
made  by  President  Ouattara  are  a  major  step  towards 
bridging  the  country’s  political  divide.  After  its  own 
bout with terror, Mali made a solid return to democracy 
by conducting an election that all observers, even the 
sceptics and the cynics, hailed as being free, fair and 
peaceful.
West  Africa  has  seen  enough  war  and  strife.  We 
want  peace  and  security  to  persist  in  our  subregion. 
Ghana will continue to play its role in strengthening the 
Economic Community of West African States to make 
sure that it is able to meet that objective.
With all that I have said in my statement today, I 
am  sure  it  will  not  come  as  a  surprise  to  anyone  that 
Ghana  enthusiastically  threw  its  support  behind  the 
Arms Trade Treaty adopted by the General Assembly 
at  the  sixty-seventh  session.  International  trade  in 
conventional arms and ammunition must be regulated. 
We like to mention how the world has become a global 
village, especially when speaking of technology, culture 
and  travel.  The  ease  of  communication  in  that  global 
village also exists for warmongers and terrorist groups, 
who are using it to recruit new members, expand their 
cells, create intercontinental networks, obtain weapons 
and conceal their identities and locations. If we are to 
fight back, we must also work cooperatively. Nations in 
the developed world must align themselves with nations 
in  the  developing  world.  We  must  form  partnerships 
and  work  together.  Ghana  is  prepared  to  do  that.  We 
have signed the Arms Trade Treaty and we intend to do 
everything possible to see that it is ratified in a timely 
manner.
Fledgling  democracies  tend  to  be  fragile.  Their 
limits  are  still  being  tested;  their  characteristics  are 
still being defined. Democracy is not a one-size-fits-all 
venture, nor is it a one-time event. It is a system that 
takes decades to build, a process that pushes a country 
towards a perfection it will never reach, but countries 
must  try  nonetheless.  This  past  year,  the  limits  of 
Ghana’s  democracy  were  tested,  and  I  am  proud  to 
report that we passed with flying colours. 
The results of our recent elections were contested. 
Since  our  return  to  constitutional  rule,  Ghana  has 
conducted six successful elections. Last year’s elections 
were the first whose results were formally challenged 
and  heard  by  the  Supreme  Court.  What  made  that 
situation  noteworthy  was  the  reliance  of  all  parties 
involved  on  the  rule  of  law.  The  proceedings  were 
televised for the sake of transparency. The verdicts were 
readily  accepted,  and  there  was  not  a  single  reported 
incident of violence.
13-48656
9/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
Ghana’s  victory 
is  not  an  aberration.  Other 
countries,  like  Kenya,  have  had  similar  experiences. 
That indicates that democratic institutions in Africa are 
growing stronger. It indicates that the balance of power 
in African countries is shifting from the authority of a 
sole individual to the more equitable process of properly 
designed systems. Strong institutions are the hallmark 
of every nation’s stability. They are crucial tools in the 
fight for human rights.
It  is  our  intention  to  bring  an  end  to  youth 
unemployment. In Ghana today, we are about to launch 
the  Youth  Jobs  and  Enterprise  Development  Fund, 
a  programme  that  will  provide  young  people  with 
entrepreneurial  skills  and  access  to  the  funds  needed 
to establish businesses of their own or expand existing 
ones, thereby creating new employment opportunities 
for themselves. 
Six  of  the  ten  fastest  growing  economies  in  the 
world  today  are  on  the  African  continent.  However, 
that growth has not yet been translated into sustainable 
employment opportunities. Over the course of the past 
decade,  African  economies  created  over  37  million 
wage-paying  jobs,  yet  63  per  cent  of  workers  remain 
trapped in low-paying subsistence or self-employment 
endeavours.  With  those  realities  come  the  very  real 
possibilities  of  income  instability,  exclusion  from 
the  benefits  of  economic  growth  and  social  security 
benefits tied to formal sector employment.
Africa  has  a  fast-growing  population,  more  than 
50 per cent of which is below the age of 35. That means 
we must create more jobs for our growing numbers of 
youth. They must have opportunities available to them. 
We cannot do that unless we transform the economies 
of Africa. It all comes down to value. We must value 
our  resources,  including  our  human  resource  —  we 
must value our people. 
We cannot continue to be exporters of raw materials 
and  primary  produce.  We  need  to  add  value  to  our 
exports. We cannot continue to export raw cocoa beans 
in Ghana; what we need to do instead is process more 
of  those  beans  into  value-added  products.  We  cannot 
continue to export unrefined gold; we need to add value 
to our gold exports. We cannot continue to export oil 
and  gas;  we  need  to  integrate  that  industry  into  our 
economy; we need to process petroleum products and 
produce  power  with  the  gas.  We  cannot  continue  to 
export  bauxite  and  then  in  return  import  alumina  to 
feed  our  local  aluminium  smelter;  we  need  to  work 
towards creating an integrated bauxite and aluminium 
industry in Ghana.
In that way, by keeping the concept of value at the 
forefront of our economy, we can create new jobs for 
our young people. We can do that with local and foreign 
investors  who  share  our  vision.  Often  the  rest  of  the 
world wrongly assumes that we in Africa do not know 
our worth. But we do. It is not sympathy we want; it is 
partnership — and the ability to stand on our own feet. 
It is not handouts we are in search of; it is opportunities. 
We  have  already  shown  that  with  time  and  the  right 
opportunity, Africa can make it.
Ghana achieved the Millennium Development Goal 
(MDG)  targets  for  reducing  poverty  and  hunger  far 
ahead of the scheduled date of 2015. We are on track for 
achieving MDGs 2, 3, and 6 as well. School enrolment, 
gender  parity  and  the  reduction  of  HIV/AIDS  have 
all  seen  dramatic  progress  and  statistical  shifts  as  a 
result  of  the  work  to  reach  our  targets.  While  we  are 
lagging behind in MDGs 4, 5, and 7 — infant mortality, 
maternal health and environmental sustainability — the 
figures show that there has been a vast improvement. 
Since  2000,  the  number  of  maternal  deaths  for  every 
100,000 births has decreased by more than half, from 
740  to  320.  We  recognize  that  when  we  are  talking 
about human lives, even a 50 per cent decrease is too 
little; it is not enough. That is why in 2010 we launched 
the MDG Accelerated Framework and Country Action 
Plan.
Women  account  for  more  than  50  per  cent  of 
Ghana’s population. We believe that empowering them 
through  education  and  encouraging  them  to  take  full 
control of their reproductive rights will help us not only 
to  attain  the  MDGs  faster,  but  also  to  build  a  better 
nation. It is not enough to put girls in school and allow 
them just enough education to be deemed literate; we 
must  keep  them  in  school.  Removing  teenaged  girls 
from school for any reason, let alone to marry them off, 
is an unacceptable practice that must end. 
African  women  have  always  been  the  backbone 
of our societies. Let us imagine the change they could 
effect in our countries if we would only help them to 
reach their full potential. As a President and a father, I 
owe it to my children — my sons and my daughter — and 
all  the  children  of  Ghana  to  create  a  country  where 
they may walk with their dignity intact and heads held 
high, standing shoulder to shoulder with the children of 
Europe, South America, Asia, North America and the 
rest of the world.
10/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
Ghana is encouraged by the new initiative to resolve 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  issue.  We  are  still  firm  in  our 
belief  that  an  independent  Palestinian  State,  existing 
side  by  side  with  a  peaceful  and  secure  Israeli  State, 
is  a  desirable  outcome  that  we  must  all  support  and 
work towards. In working towards that goal, we must 
realize that the continuous construction of settlements 
in Palestinian territory increasingly shuts the door on a 
two-State solution.
Ghana  calls  once  again  for  the  embargo  against 
Cuba to be lifted. It is a relic of the Cold War era and 
has no place in our current global dispensation.
We have come a long way since the end of the last 
global  war,  yet  the  makeup  of  the  Security  Council 
does  not  reflect  those  developments.  Ghana  therefore 
supports the reform of the Security Council.
Ghana  will  continue  to  pursue  the  principle  of 
constructive  engagement  in  our  relations  with  the 
other  countries  in  the  world.  We  are  fully  committed 
to promoting honest global partnership that is informed 
by mutual respect and reciprocity.
In  closing,  I  would  like  once  again  to  pay  my 
respects  to  those  who  have  lost  their  lives  in  Kenya, 
Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Libya, Pakistan, Iraq, Nigeria, 
Mali, Somalia, Turkey, India, the United States and all 
the other places where terrorists have attacked just this 
year alone. The reason we are all gathered here today is 
to find the ways and the means to create a better, more 
peaceful and prosperous world.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Ghana for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President  
of Mongolia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Mongolia.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj 
Tsakhia,  President  of  Mongolia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President Tsakhia: Allow me to first congratulate 
Mr.  John  Ashe  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  on  assuming 
the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. 
Mongolia pledges its full support to him.
We gather here at the United Nations to collectively 
assess the state of the world, share our thoughts and our 
vision, and agree on common actions. I shall begin by 
reviewing where we are today. 
Over  70  million  people  around  the  world  join  the 
middle class each year. The Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  have  improved  the  lives  of  billions  of 
people.  The  world  has  attained  poverty-reduction 
targets — in some places, even ahead of the proscribed 
deadline. Rather than seeing 2015 as the end, we should 
view it as the beginning of a new era. In this era, we 
should build on our successes, attend to gaps and meet 
emerging challenges.
Sadly, we face many such challenges. Today, over 
200 million people are jobless, over 50 million children 
are not in school, and one in eight of our fellow citizens 
still  goes  hungry.  Yet  over  $900  billion  dollars  are 
earmarked for military expenditures every year. Only 
a  fraction  of  that  sum  is  spent  on  health  care  and 
education. Such a state of affairs should not be tolerated.
When  it  comes  to  the  climate,  a  temperature 
increase  of  more  than  two  degrees  Centigrade  would 
be  disastrous,  if  not  catastrophic.  Our  environment 
is  changing  rapidly.  On  the  production  side,  global 
consumption far exceeds our fragile planet’s capacity. 
Resources are being exhausted. Humankind is gravely 
endangered. We are running out of time. The world has 
too  many  hungry  people,  too  much  violence  and  too 
little commitment to human rights. We need to change 
that.
I  want  to  share  with  the  Assembly  Mongolia’s 
views and experience. Mongolia is a great nation with a 
rich history. It is an old nation with a young heart. We 
are fortunate to have abundant natural resources, which 
offer great growth prospects and a unique opportunity 
for  economic  development  and  social  progress.  With 
double-digit  percentage  growth,  we  are  one  of  the 
world’s fastest developing economies.
Mongolia  has  achieved  many  development  goals 
in areas such as universal primary education, reducing 
13-48656
11/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
child  mortality  and 
improving  maternal  health. 
However,  our  fifth  national  MDG  progress  report 
suggests  that  more  needs  to  be  done.  To  reach  our 
development goals, the Government is working closely 
with  all  national  stakeholders,  including  political 
parties,  the  private  sector,  research  institutions,  civil 
society  and  the  media.  Likewise,  we  invite  investors 
to  work  together  for  our  common  interests.  Just  a 
few  days  ago,  we  hosted  the  World  Economic  Forum 
Strategic  Dialogue  on  the  Future  of  Mongolia.  That 
event gathered representatives of multiple stakeholders 
to explore future economic pathways for my country’s 
development.
Mongolians  care  deeply  for  the  environment.  We 
take seriously our shared responsibility to confront the 
threat from climate change. That is why we are promoting 
a green development policy. We have also created and 
preserved national parks to curb desertification. At the 
same  time,  these  scenic  parks  form  the  backbone  of 
new ecotourism. They will generate both conservation 
income and green jobs.
My  country  is  creating  an  Asian  super-network 
for  green  development.  It  will  produce  renewable 
energy and provide it to Asian consumers. Mongolia’s 
first  wind  farm,  which  is  privately  owned,  is  now  in 
operation.  Wind  energy  has  the  potential  to  produce 
electricity well beyond the country’s needs.
We face many environmental challenges, including 
land  degradation,  deforestation,  natural  disasters  and 
pollution.  Those  issues  need  to  be  resolved  urgently 
and  collectively.  Environmental  education  and  wider 
public  participation  are  vital 
those 
challenges.  This  year  we  hosted  the  United  Nations 
World Environment Day. Indeed, we are at the centre of 
the green economy. The Mongolian people, particularly 
our  young  people,  are  committed  to  building  a  better 
environmental future.
to  resolving 
Last year I spoke of the importance of Mongolia’s 
battle to root out corruption at all levels. We are combating 
corruption — the scourge of democracy — with a zero-
tolerance  policy  at  every  level  of  Government.  As  a 
result, Mongolia moved up 26 places in Transparency 
International’s rankings of States.
Transparency  is  the  key  to  fighting  corruption. 
Citizens have the right to know how their taxes are spent 
at every level of Government, from national agencies to 
the  local  administration.  Our  “glass  account”  system 
ensures  that  all  funds  are  accounted  for  openly  and 
transparently.  Citizens  deserve  access  to  information 
and  a  say  in  how  their  communities  are  developed. 
The best Government is the one based on strong civic 
participation.
Mongolia believes in democratic development. Over 
20 years ago, it was unimaginable that Mongolia would 
one  day  chair  the  Community  of  Democracies.  That 
well-known  and  highly  respected  global  democratic 
movement  is  dedicated  to  promoting  freedom  and 
democracy.  Hundreds  of  human  rights  activists  and 
democratic  leaders  from  many  countries  gathered  in 
Ulaanbaatar  last  April.  The  Ulaanbaatar  Declaration 
charts  a  future  course  for  promoting  democracy.  Our 
initiative,  the  Asia  Democracy  Network,  and  the 
ministerial  consultative  meeting,  have  laid  a  solid 
foundation for democratic development.
I  believe  that  efforts  to  foster  civic  engagement 
are  more  effective  with  democracy  education.  The 
implementation  of  resolution  67/18,  on  education  for 
democracy,  will  strengthen  democratic  institutions 
and improve the human rights situation for more of our 
fellow citizens, because knowledge is power.
We all must focus on promoting human rights. In 
the past two decades, Mongolia has been learning and 
advancing democracy at home. With a view to supporting 
emerging democracies, we initiated and established an 
international cooperation fund and have already started 
implementing several projects. We are actively sharing 
the lessons of parliamentary democracy and conducting 
legal  reform  with  Kyrgyzstan.  We  organized  training 
for  diplomats  and  public  servants  from  Afghanistan. 
We  are  also  discussing  the  possibility  of  cooperation 
with Myanmar and other emerging democracies.
I  call  on  Member  States  to  support  our  policy  of 
protecting  and  promoting  democratic  governance 
and human rights. I humbly ask for States’ support of 
Mongolia’s candidature for the Human Rights Council 
in the elections to be held in 2015.
Peace  and  security  remain  a  fundamental  human 
right.
Today  people  the  world  over  are  distressed  by 
endless cycles of conflict. Military forces and weapons 
are being used to settle disputes. Thousands of human 
beings are losing their lives, millions are displaced and 
many more are suffering. The grave situation in Syria 
is the latest example. We hope that the United States-
Russian initiative will bear fruit and lead to a peaceful 
resolution of the Syrian conflict.
12/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
Mongolia firmly supports non-proliferation and the 
complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction. 
We  cannot  tolerate  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  and 
strongly condemn any violation of universally accepted 
international law. 
This  morning  I  participated  in  the  High-level 
Meeting  on  Nuclear  Disarmament  (see  A/68/PV.11). 
As a country with internationally recognized nuclear-
weapon-free-status,  uniquely  situated  between  two 
nuclear-weapon States that are permanent members of 
the Security Council, Mongolia has been working hard 
on  nuclear  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear weapons.
As a result of our efforts, the five nuclear-weapon 
States,  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council, 
have issued a joint declaration recognizing Mongolia’s 
unique status. They pledged to respect that status and 
not to contribute to any act that would violate it. Their 
joint commitment ensures that we will not be used as 
a pawn in any future nuclear plans or strategies. That 
is  Mongolia’s  contribution  to  greater  confidence  and 
stability in the region.
Strengthening  peace  and  stability  in  North-East 
Asia  is  one  of  Mongolia’s  national  security  priorities. 
We firmly believe that dialogue and open discussions 
foster  confidence.  We  have  therefore  put  forth  an 
initiative:  the  Ulaanbaatar  Dialogue  on  North-East 
Asia Security. We invite the other States of the region 
to  jointly  address  various  issues  of  common  interest, 
including security issues in North-East Asia.
Mongolian  military  officers  and 
troops  are 
honoured  to  serve  along  with  their  fellow  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  to  maintain  international  peace 
and  security.  We  are  very  proud  of  our  peacekeepers 
for 
their  dedicated  service  and 
invaluable 
contributions to the cause of peace.
their 
We  all  know  the  complexity  of  contemporary 
conflicts.  Our  peacekeepers  are  serving  in  areas 
with  high  security  threats  and  risks.  To  support  and 
encourage our peacekeepers, last February I took a trip 
to South Sudan and visited the United Nations Mission 
there.  During  my  visit,  I  met  the  President  of  South 
Sudan and offered my support to him and to his nation, 
the youngest member of the international community.
Let us make our world safer and more prosperous. 
Let us be fearless when it comes to fighting for fairness, 
transparency and the rule of law. Where there is the rule 
of law, there is less corruption and more human rights. 
Where  there  is  transparency,  there  is  less  economic 
disparity and greater accountability.
Where  citizens  are  engaged  and  informed,  good 
things  happen.  We  must  be  fearless  in  our  efforts  to 
promote and achieve a fair, open and transparent world 
community.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Mongolia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Borut Pahor, 
President of the Republic of Slovenia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Pahor:  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his  election  and  wish  him  every 
success. Let me also pay tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  and  thank  him  for  his  tireless  efforts 
and  leadership  in  promoting  the  ideals  and  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
The ideal and principle to which we should aspire 
is creating a world in which everyone can live free from 
fear, free from want and in dignity. The United Nations 
has achieved many extraordinary successes in the past, 
but  we  also  have  to  acknowledge  some  disappointing 
and frustrating setbacks and failures. I believe that now 
more than ever, the United Nations must play a major 
role in international relations. We live at a time when 
the balance of global power is changing in a rapid and 
dramatic way. Thus far in history, this kind of global 
change has never ended without a global conflict. We 
established  the  United  Nations  precisely  in  order  to 
prevent such a conflict in future.
Less  than  20  years  ago,  we  witnessed  events  that 
shocked  our  human  conscience:  genocide  in  Rwanda, 
13-48656
13/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
followed  by  genocide  in  Srebrenica  and  Darfur.  We 
should have learned lasting lessons from those horrific 
events.  We  vowed  never  to  let  that  happen  again.  We 
collectively  endorsed  the  responsibility  to  protect 
human  beings  from  mass  atrocities  and  gross  and 
systematic violations of human rights, and yet we have 
failed again. 
We are faced with another human tragedy unfolding 
before our eyes in Syria. After more than two years of 
brutal violence against civilians, including women and 
children,  we  still  have  not  found  a  political  solution 
within the framework of the United Nations. Not only 
is the unconscionable use of chemical weapons in Syria 
considered  a  war  crime,  it  is  an  assault  against  our 
common humanity. 
Sovereignty  as  responsibility  implies  that  States 
are  responsible  for  the  well-being  of  their  citizens.  It 
does not give them a licence to kill their own citizens. 
If  States  manifestly  fail  to  protect  their  populations, 
the international community has a duty to react. When 
faced  with  mass  atrocities,  indifference  is  not,  and 
cannot  represent,  an  option.  The  report  of  the  United 
Nations  inspectors  was  clear,  credible  and  impartial. 
The United States-Russian agreement on the framework 
for  the  elimination  of  Syrian  chemical  weapons  must 
be implemented without delay. Syria’s accession to the 
Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and  on  Their  Destruction  is  a  positive  step.  Syria 
should  comply  immediately  and  fully,  or  face  the 
consequences. 
It  is  important  that  diplomacy  prevailed  and 
referred  the  issue  back  to  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Security Council. The Security Council should live up 
to  its  responsibility  and  use  all  appropriate  measures 
to  comprehensively  address  the  situation  in  Syria. 
Reaching  a  political  settlement  remains  the  only 
viable and lasting solution to the crisis and to ensuring 
stability in the region. We support the timely convening 
of the “Geneva II” conference.
The Security Council has the primary responsibility 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security  under 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  exercises  that 
responsibility on behalf of all of us. It has an obligation 
to deliver and to fulfil the mandate entrusted to it by 
the international community. In this period of tensions 
and challenges, the responsibility of the major Member 
States  is  especially  great.  In  recent  years  we  have 
witnessed too many divisions in the Council, which have 
impeded its ability to act in a timely manner. Decisive 
progress  in  Security  Council  reform  is  required  to 
improve  the  Council’s  efficiency,  transparency  and 
accountability.  As  part  of  that  effort,  the  permanent 
members should consider refraining from the use of the 
veto in situations of genocide, crimes against humanity 
and  serious  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law.
We  call  upon  the  Security  Council  to  refer  the 
situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. 
The International Criminal Court is an essential pillar 
in  the  system  of  international  justice  and  a  powerful 
tool  to  ensure  accountability  and  to  fight  against 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes.  It  deserves  our 
full support.
We  must  focus  more  closely  on  addressing  the 
root  causes  of  conflicts  and  expand  our  work  on 
prevention. In particular, we must improve our ability 
to read the warning signs and trigger early action. The 
consequences  of  inaction  far  outweigh  any  risks  that 
might  arise  from  timely  prevention  and  response,  in 
terms both of money and — more important — human 
suffering and lives. 
That  was  a  lesson  learned  in  our  neighbouring 
region,  the  Western  Balkans.  Enhancing  mutual  trust 
through  open  political  dialogue  is  a  prerequisite  for 
peaceful  coexistence  and  long-term  stability  there. 
Slovenia and Croatia have therefore launched the Brdo 
process  as  a  forum  for  high-level  dialogue  intended 
to  strengthen  relations  and  reconciliation  among  the 
countries of the region.
The  past  century  was  a  very  dark  chapter  in 
Europe and in human history. In August 2014, we will 
commemorate  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
outbreak of the First World War. It brought about mass 
destruction of human life and new methods of warfare 
that  were  subsequently  condemned  by  the  civilized 
world. It was followed by the Second World War, and 
the century ended with a decade of intra-State conflicts 
and genocides that caused untold human suffering. 
Let  us  use  our  conscience  and  humanity  as  the 
weapon  of  choice,  for  everyone  deserves  to  live  in 
dignity and peace, feeling safe, with access to food and 
drinking water and with a decent job and adequate pay 
for it. Yet something so obvious seems to be very far 
from reality. It is our task to bring reality closer to our 
dreams.
14/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
to 
responsibility 
Today’s  world  leaders  have  a  unique  opportunity, 
possibility  and 
influence  our 
common  future  for  many  decades  to  come.  That  is 
why it is important not to lose focus on the successful 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
by 2015 and to agree on the post-2015 agenda. Let us 
transform our vision of saving future generations from 
the  scourge  of  war  into  reality.  We  have  no  time  to 
spare. We have no right to fail.
journey  and  a  future  project  leading  towards  further 
horizons. What we must take into consideration is the 
element of time. Nations require decades to gain control 
of their revolutions and achieve their success or failure. 
We must remember that the Arab Spring, like all human 
projects, may stumble or come to a standstill — indeed, 
may  fail.  Our  duty  —  the  duty  of  those  here  —  is  to 
persist  in  support  of  that  journey  and  to  begin  afresh 
after each obstacle. 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I thank the President of the 
Republic of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Moncef 
Marzouki, President of the Republic of Tunisia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Tunisia.
Mr. Mohamed Moncef Marzouki, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed 
Moncef Marzouki, President of the Republic of Tunisia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Marzouki (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  my  country,  Tunisia,  and  the  Tunisian  people, 
I  greet  the  Assembly  and  all  those  around  the  world 
represented here.
On  17  December  2010,  Tunisia,  as  the  Assembly 
knows,  was  the  first  country  to  experience  the  Arab 
Spring,  the  peaceful  revolutions  of  Arab  peoples 
aimed  at  ridding  themselves  of  corrupt  dictatorships 
hampering the economic, political and social progress 
of their countries. Such dictatorships had imposed with 
brutal force corrupt regimes that had swept away basic 
human civilization. What has now been seen in some 
Arab  Spring  countries  may  lead  some  to  believe  that 
those efforts at liberation have failed and that the dream 
has become a nightmare.
What  we  must  remember  is  that  the  Arab  Spring 
is  not  a  final  stage,  something  that  can  be  achieved 
overnight. It is, rather, just the beginning of a liberation 
that 
involved 
We  believe 
the  difficulties 
in 
building  democracy  in  the  Arab  Spring  countries  are 
only  natural  and  will  be  overcome.  Our  peoples  will 
never  accept  regimes  that  shackle  them.  We  want 
to  fight  extremism  cloaked  in  religion,  not  replace  it 
with dictatorship cloaked in nationalism or patriotism. 
Those difficulties do indeed reveal that political, social 
and  ideological  forces  are  pushing  countries  this  way 
and  that;  building  democracy  and  civil  institutions  is 
replete with difficulties in all Arab Spring countries.
From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  speak  to  the 
current authorities in Egypt and call on them to release 
President Mohammed Morsi and all political detainees. 
Only a bold initiative such as that has the potential to 
end the political tensions, stop the violence and bring 
all the parties back to a dialogue as the only means to 
solve  all  the  difficult  problems  caused  by  the  current 
transitional phase.
The restriction of movement of goods and persons is 
increasing the difficulties faced by the struggling people 
of Gaza under Israeli occupation and colonization.
Tunisia  is  dealing  with  three  challenges.  That 
of  terrorism,  as  exemplified  by  the  killing  of  the  two 
martyrs,  Shukri  Belaid  on  6  February  and  Mohamed 
Brahimi on 25 July, is a major political challenge that 
has  impeded  the  work  on  the  Constitutional  Council. 
The second is the fact of slowing domestic and foreign 
investment.  The  third  is  that  we  are  having  to  learn 
democracy at the same time that we are building and 
defending  it.  It  has  not  yet  taken  root  in  our  political 
and  social 
traditions  or  our  general  culture.  In 
Tunisia  we  have  many  of  the  elements  necessary  for 
success  —  a  responsible  and  conscious  political  class 
that  has  continued  to  pursue  dialogue,  a  legitimate, 
disciplined  and  professional  army  and  a  people  who 
are peaceful and politically aware and who understand 
what is in their own interests.
I would like to assure the Assembly that the Arab 
Spring  in  Tunisia  will  continue  and  succeed.  We 
13-48656
15/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
will  set  a  date  for  elections  and  will  agree  on  a  just 
Government. Those elections will be supervised by the 
United Nations, the League of Arab States, the African 
Union  and  all  other  relevant  international  and  local 
organizations  and  civil  society  groups.  God  willing, 
they  will  be  held  next  spring.  We  are  aware  that  the 
forces  of  terrorism  and  chaos  will  try  to  destabilize 
them as much as possible. Tunisia is undertaking this 
experiment both for itself and for the rest of the world. 
We  want  our  revolution  to  be  peaceful.  We  want 
justice  to  play  its  role  in  the  transitional  period.  We 
also  want  to  expand  the  concept  of  democracy.  It  is 
not  merely  about  the  rights  of  those  winning  51  per 
cent  of  the  vote,  and  ignoring  those  who  won  49  per 
cent.  We  want  coalition  Governments  that  take  into 
consideration the fact that society is made up of many 
parts. We want to learn from one another. Our success 
or  failure  will  have  consequences  that  will  reach  far 
beyond our borders. Hence the importance of solidarity 
among peoples, so that we can ensure success for this 
unique experiment.
Today the Arab Spring has encountered the ultimate 
expression of suffering in Syria. The violence that has 
faced peaceful demonstrations has shocked us from the 
beginning. It is escalating day after day, and is now brutal 
on a scale that history has seldom seen before. In Tunisia 
we have taken a strong position against the dictatorship 
in Syria. We supported the the struggle of the Syrian 
opposition and expelled the regime’s ambassador from 
our country. We have been warning for a long time now 
about the problems of the militarization of the events, 
of factionalism, sectarianism and outside intervention, 
whether by States or so-called jihadi groups, including 
some from Tunisia, which we know will be a danger to 
us when they return from that suffering country.
We have always called for a peaceful solution and 
have gone so far as to say that life is more important 
than justice, and if it is necessary not to prosecute the 
Syrian dictators — and if they leave the scene — we 
should accept that situation, however bitter. Our fears 
have  become  reality,  however,  and  we  continue  to 
live  with  this  nightmare  that  is  afflicting  the  valiant 
Syrian  people,  as  well  as  our  conscience.  We  have 
never  seen  such  a  pitch  of  brutality  and  barbarity.  A 
political  solution  to  end  the  nightmare  is  desperately 
needed. However, what we also need is the support of 
the General Assembly for prosecuting the case through 
the International Criminal Court (ICC). That would be 
a contribution to international law that could contribute 
to protecting people against dictatorships, particularly 
the Syrian dictatorship, which is an extreme example of 
how immorally a regime can behave.
We are fully confident that had the Court been able 
to act, the Syrian regime would not have attempted to 
turn the presidency of the country into rule-by-heredity, 
limiting  ruling  to  one  party  only.  It  would  not  have 
dared to convict members of opposition political parties 
and sentence them to death. Imagine if the Court had 
been able to act in such cases. What if the Court had 
been able to pursue a course in favour of human rights? 
Imagine how we could have avoided the nightmare that 
the Syrian people has been going through — 100,000 
dead  and  7  million  displaced  persons,  with  a  regime 
killing men, women and children with all the weapons 
at its disposal, including chemical weapons. 
Have  we  ever  seen  such  a  brutal  regime  by  an 
individual  person  who  came  to  power  through  force 
and falsification and who is fighting a barbarous civil 
war that has set the stage for ugly scenes beyond any 
ever seen in the history of the region? The regime ought 
to  be  brought  to  the  ICC.  Justice  delayed  still  cannot 
bring  millions  of  dead  back  to  life.  There  have  to  be 
preventive bodies that can take up such situations from 
their very beginning. 
Regimes  like  that  of  Syria  cannot  last  long 
against internal democratic opposition and the lack of 
international recognition. Tunisia therefore calls on all 
democratic  States  that  wish  to  build  institutions  that 
counter the rise of dictatorships to support our project. 
We believe that such a constitutional court would be the 
expression of a new spirit needed by the international 
community.
We  are  meeting  in  this  place  with  all  the  nations 
of the world to review the world’s problems, many of 
which  are  foreseeable  and  bring  great  pain  to  people. 
We would have been able to avoid such situations had 
we adopted the slogan “Think globally and act locally.” 
As  a  medical  doctor,  I  would  recall  that  we  were 
able to conquer epidemics that raged against humankind 
through  efforts  at  prevention.  Dictatorships,  climate 
change  and  poverty  must  be  thwarted  internally  and 
among peoples. In facing such epidemics, we must have 
preventive  policies  that  save  humankind.  We  hope  to 
God  that  there  is  enough  time  for  us  to  quickly  take 
such a direction before it is too late.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
16/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
of the Republic of Tunisia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Mohamed Moncef Marzouki, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Dalia 
Grybauskaitė,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President Grybauskaitė: There are two years left 
until  the  deadline  for  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. It is therefore time to review what 
we have succeeded in achieving and set the guidelines 
for the work that remains.
Development 
is  a  global  challenge.  Every 
contribution  that  is  made,  every  experience  that  we 
share  and  every  lesson  that  we  have  learned  is  very 
important for all of us. By sharing we set the stage for 
learning from each other — and not only from our own 
mistakes. In today’s world, every country has the right 
to choose a path that best suits its experience, culture 
and needs, as long as it does not infringe upon the rights 
of  others  and  guarantees  human  rights  and  freedoms. 
The  international  community  has  an  obligation  to 
offer support based on the principles of ownership and 
empowerment so that those choices may be realized.
Development  cannot  be  imposed;  it  must  be 
promoted.  But  it  is  not  only  about  development.  It  is 
about free choice, democracy and fundamental rights, 
each of which is key to the success of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. 
Today we live in the twenty-first century, but there 
are  still  those  who  want  to  enforce  a  specific  course 
of  development  on  others,  using  economic  pressure, 
energy  levers  or  cybertools,  by  distorted  information 
or  threats.  It  is  true  that  internationally  approved 
sanctions send a message to those who are producing 
weapons  and  not  jobs,  who  violate  human  rights  and 
use  national  resources  to  satisfy  individual  interests 
and not those of their society as a whole. But the use of 
economic, energy or information tools to show power 
or set up zones of influence is unjustifiable, especially 
for the future.
The  twenty-first  century  should  be  the  age  of 
solidarity,  equality  and  sustainable  development.  It 
cannot be an age of the flaunting of power, zero-sum 
games or buffer zones. Those times are over. Any attempt 
to return to those times impedes the development of the 
modern world. But, regrettably, power games still exist.
I  would  like  to  share  my  country’s  and  region’s 
experience with the Assembly. In the past two decades, 
the Baltic States have been rapidly transformed. Complex 
and  painful  economic,  political  and  social  reforms 
have boosted economic growth, social well-being and 
political  stability.  After  rebuilding  our  statehood  two 
decades ago and with the help, advice and experience 
of the international community, our nations have today 
become  donors  and  have  a  lot  of  experience  to  share 
with  those  who  are  going  through  transformations 
similar to the ones we have experienced. 
a 
favourable 
Inner  resolve  and  consensus  are  very  important. 
However, 
and 
international  support  are  also  needed,  especially  for 
small countries that depend on larger players for their 
trade, transportation or energy links.
external 
climate 
Mr. Corlăţean (Romania), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
In  two  months’  time,  in  Vilnius,  several  Eastern 
European countries intend to confirm their commitment 
to  completing  the  painful  but  much-needed  reforms 
for  economic  growth,  political  stability  and  social 
harmony.  For  many  years,  those  countries  worked 
hard  to  reach  national  agreement  on  reforms,  their 
scope and direction. They learned from their mistakes 
and  mobilized  resources  to  build  their  own  futures. 
They chose to build modern States of the twenty-first 
century  —  open,  transparent  and  collaborative,  not 
dominating.
It was not easy for those countries to decide which 
course to take. Their choice would have been made easier 
if their free will had been respected and their decision 
supported  in  good  faith,  and  with  encouragement  by 
those  who  could  provide  such  support.  Instead,  they 
are  now  facing  trade  restrictions,  bans  on  goods,  the 
13-48656
17/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
manipulation of energy prices, the use of pressure and 
open disrespect displayed in information forums.
The  countries  of  the  European  Union  Eastern 
Partnership  are  not  the  only  ones  experiencing  such 
problems. Even Lithuania, which holds the presidency 
of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union  and  has 
successfully consolidated its course of development, is 
under similar pressure. Barriers to travel, unreasonable 
delays in cargo transportation, the milk wars — those 
are just a few very recent controversial examples. For 
nations, the decision is really difficult to make when free 
choice means being threatened with gas-price increases 
and  blocked  trade,  instead  of  receiving  support  and 
advice.  Under  such  pressure,  it  is  hard  to  implement 
reforms that empower members of society and open up 
opportunities to engage in the state-building process.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  must  provide 
instruments that empower States to seek development, 
based on free will and their individual needs. There is no 
place for forced choices, open threats or demonstrations 
of power. The international community, especially the 
United Nations, should empower States to realize such 
self-determination. I urge us all to give the matter our 
very careful attention.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Lithuania for the statement she has just made.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa, 
President of the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Waqa: May I first congratulate Mr. John 
Ashe  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  at  the  current 
session. I am sure that his wisdom and experience will 
guide  our  deliberations  on  the  many  challenges  that 
the world faces today. Also, allow me to commend His 
Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić for his excellent leadership 
during the sixty-seventh session.
The  President  knows  better  than  most  the  unique 
combination  of  challenges  faced  by  small  island 
developing States. We are being battered from all sides, 
both literally and figuratively. Over the past decade, we 
have faced a flood of crises with a genesis far from our 
shores that have stretched our capacity to protect and 
improve the health and prosperity of our people.
The  near  collapse  of  the  global  financial  system 
and  spikes  in  food  and  energy  prices  have  caused 
enormous  difficulties  for  our  small  and  vulnerable 
economy. A severe drought caused additional hardship 
and  foreshadowed  the  much  more  difficult  future  we 
will  face  in  a  warming  world.  At  the  same  time,  the 
flow  of  official  development  assistance  and  climate 
financing have begun to stagnate.
Thankfully, we are presented with an unprecedented 
opportunity  over  the  next  few  years  to  transform 
how  the  international  system  supports  sustainable 
development. We will be continuing work on a number 
of important processes over the next year., They include 
the  crafting  of  sustainable  development  goals  and  the 
post-2015 development agenda, the work of the High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development 
and — of particular importance to my country — the 
proceedings  of  the  third  Global  Conference  on  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States.  In  addition,  we  must  make  rapid  progress 
towards  a  new  climate-change  agreement  in  2015, 
which  will  obviously  have  enormous  implications  for 
the sustainable development prospects of small islands. 
We  must  work  in  a  coordinated  fashion  so  that  those 
processes are mutually reinforcing and deliver concrete 
results, rather than produce the usual rhetoric. It will be 
a challenge, but under the President’s skilled leadership, 
I am confident we can succeed.
However,  I  fear  we  will  come  up  short  of  our 
ambitions for transformational change if we shy away 
from making fundamental reforms in the way the global 
economy  works.  We  began  a  promising  conversation 
on  the  matter  back  in  2008  when  the  financial  crisis 
was  still  fresh  in  our  minds,  but  as  stock  prices  have 
rebounded,  our  attention  has  wandered.  Let  us  not 
forget that most of the problems that caused the previous 
crisis have not been fixed. Those same problems also 
18/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
undermine sustainable development in many countries 
and communities around the world.
In  2009,  the  Commission  of  Experts  on  Reforms 
of  the  International  Monetary  and  Financial  System 
submitted a report (A/63/838) to this body in which it 
indicated that finance, which should be the servant of 
the economy, had been promoted to be its master. The 
rules  of  economic  governance  had  been  increasingly 
written to serve the interests of a shrinking few as they 
pursued  risky  ventures  —  ventures  that  often  played 
havoc  with  people’s  lives  and  livelihoods.  We  are 
very familiar with some of the results of that system: 
stock-market  bubbles,  currency  bubbles  and  property 
bubbles. When they burst, they leave behind enormous 
hardship. Even worse, investments in risky activities of 
that type compete with more productive investments in 
basic infrastructure, renewable energy, health services 
and  the  like  —  investments  that  contribute  to  true 
sustainable development.
Our  reckless  inaction  is  demonstrated  by  the 
inflation  of  the  latest  bubble:  the  carbon  bubble.  At 
least two thirds of known fossil fuel reserves cannot be 
burned if we are to limit the rise in global temperatures 
to below two degrees. The cost of renewable energy has 
fallen considerably in the past decade. By any measure, 
fossil  fuels  are  a  very  bad  long-term  investment,  yet 
that  has  not  prevented  trillions  of  dollars  in  private 
investment and fossil fuel subsidies from pouring into 
new  infrastructure  for  the  exploration,  extraction  and 
consumption of fossil fuels.
The  size  of  the  recent  housing  bubble  has  been 
estimated  at  $4  trillion.  The  carbon  bubble  could  be 
more than five times larger. That should be an issue of 
serious international concern. How do we allow trillions 
of dollars to flow into destructive activities while the 
most basic needs of millions go unmet? The reasons are 
complicated, but make no mistake that this is a choice. 
It  is  a  choice  made  by  international  policymakers  to 
prioritize profits over people.
As  the  President  said  earlier  this  week,  “it  is 
time  for  us  to  concede  that  our  efforts  at  reforming 
and  revitalizing  our  Organization  need  new  impetus” 
(A/68/PV.5,  p.  5).  Reclaiming  the  global  economic 
system and putting it to work for the good of the people 
will be a long and difficult process, but it may be the 
only way to reach our sustainable development goals.
The  Commission’s  2009  report  made  many  good 
recommendations  for  our  consideration,  and  the  first 
step must be to bring more transparency and democratic 
oversight to economic governance. The most important 
decisions are not made in universal bodies, such as the 
General Assembly, but rather far away from the small, 
the isolated and the vulnerable. Is it any surprise that 
the system has failed to meet our needs?To address that 
problem, we should start by relaunching the discussion 
on  global  economic  governance  here  in  the  General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  by  reforming  the  governance  of 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  so  that  they  are  more 
inclusive.
The  systemic  barriers  to  sustainable  development 
are  formidable,  but  that  has  not  stopped  Nauru 
from  seeking  practical  solutions  that  can  be  readily 
implemented  in  the  short  term.  An  example  is  the 
recently completed Nauru case study on climate change 
financing. The study identified a number of steps my 
Government and our development partners can take to 
make  official  development  assistance  more  effective. 
For example, project-based financing was found to be 
markedly less effective than more flexible modalities, 
such as general budgetary support.
Another  key  finding  concerned  the  need  for 
domestic institution-building. Accessing many sources 
of  multilateral  finance  is,  quite  frankly,  beyond  the 
capacity  of  my  Government,  and  the  traditional 
strategy of conducting regional workshops has simply 
not worked. We hope to collaborate with development 
partners  to  design  sustained  programmes  with  a 
significant  in-country  component,  so  that  there  is  a 
durable transfer of the skills necessary to benefit from 
international support mechanisms.
Nauru has also made its best efforts to contribute at 
the international level. We have the tremendous honour 
of  presiding  over  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States 
(AOSlS),  a  group  that  has  been  a  leading  advocate 
for  climate  action  for  more  than  two  decades.  The 
upcoming nineteenth session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  (COP-19),  to  be  held  in  Warsaw, 
will  be  important  to  laying  the  foundation  for  an 
ambitious  agreement  in  2015.  A  key  priority  for  the 
COP-19  will  be  jump-starting  near-term  mitigation 
action through the launch of a process guided by more 
technical  expertise  and  focused  on  energy  efficiency 
and  renewable  energy.  AOSIS  has  proposed  a  very 
practical  and  collaborative  approach  to  rapidly  scale 
up the implementation of policies and the deployment 
of  technologies  that  not  only  reduce  greenhouse  gas 
13-48656
19/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
emissions  but  also  advance  domestic  sustainable 
development  priorities.  In  the  view  of  AOSIS,  that 
technical  process  can  prepare  the  ground  for  a  much 
more ambitious post-2020 agreement.
The  proposal 
in  no  way  relieves  developed 
countries  of  their  international  obligation  to  take  the 
lead in addressing climate change. They should be held 
accountable  for  fully  implementing  best  practices  to 
reduce  their  own  emissions,  while  also  providing  the 
means  for  implementing  adaptation  and  mitigation 
actions  in  developing  countries.  The  AOSlS  proposal 
indicates  the  way  to  accomplish  those  objectives. 
Establishing  an  international  mechanism  to  address 
loss and damage is also a key priority for AOSlS, as is 
mobilizing climate financing and making sure the Green 
Climate Fund is ready to accept donor contributions in 
2014.
Climate  change  is  the  greatest  challenge  to  the 
sustainable  development  of  small  islands.  We  must 
come  to  terms  with  the  fact  that,  owing  to  our  delay, 
some  grave  impacts  are  now  unavoidable.  Some  will 
have  security  implications.  Addressing  the  security 
implications of climate change remains a key priority 
for  Nauru  and  the  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  proposals  for 
moving forward.
First,  we  are  calling  for  the  appointment  of  a 
special  representative  on  climate  and  security  to  help 
expand  our  understanding  of  the  security  dimensions 
of  climate  change.  The  special  representative  would 
regularly  report  to  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council on emerging climate-related security 
threats  and  would  facilitate  regional  cooperation  on 
cross-border issues. Vulnerable developing countries in 
particular  could  benefit  from  a  special  representative 
equipped to help them evaluate their security situations 
and  develop  action  plans  to  increase  the  resilience 
of  their  institutions.  At  some  point  in  the  future,  the 
special  representative  could  become  an  invaluable 
asset in preventive diplomacy efforts and post-conflict 
situations.
Secondly, we are requesting the Secretary-General 
to lead a joint task force of all the relevant organs and 
specialized agencies to immediately assess the capacity 
and resources of the United Nations system to respond 
to  the  anticipated  security  implications  of  climate 
change. We have heard in countless forums about the 
potentially destabilizing effects of climate change, yet 
we have only the vaguest idea of what an international 
response to those effects would look like. That needs to 
change. We must start preparing for the challenges that 
lie ahead. As the Secretary-General said at the High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
“We must strengthen the interface between science and 
policy”. 
The  world’s  attention  is  now  focused  on  the 
immense  suffering  in  Syria.  On  behalf  of  the  people 
of Nauru, I would like to offer my condolences to the 
millions  of  people  whose  lives  have  been  affected  by 
the  Syrian  conflict.  We  are  horrified  by  the  scale  of 
human  atrocity  there.  I  am  compelled  to  ask:  Do  we 
always  have  to  wait  for  well  over  100,000  people  to 
be killed before we can find solutions to restore peace 
and security? As the President observed, the mandate 
of  this  body  has  limitations,  and  we  cannot  issue 
resolutions  that  bind  countries.  The  United  Nations 
invests enormous power in the hands of a tiny minority 
of five, which is not so different from global economic 
governance being dictated primarily by eight.
Nauru  is  always  striving  to  improve  bilateral 
relations.  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
Australia, which has always been an important partner.
We look forward to our continued work with the new 
Government  as  we  continue  to  collaborate  on  joint 
projects  that  are  delivering  important  benefits  in  my 
country.
Nauru 
to  note 
is  gratified 
that,  with  solid 
international  support  and  cross-Strait  rapprochement, 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  has  increased  its 
meaningful participation in United Nations specialized 
agencies  and  mechanisms.  We  continue  to  encourage 
the  positive  interaction  between  the  two  sides  of  the 
Taiwan Strait in the international arena. Furthermore, 
I would like to recognize the contributions that Taiwan 
has made to helping my country make progress towards 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  also  express 
our gratitude to the Governments of New Zealand, the 
Russian Federation, Japan, the Republic of Korea and 
India; they are all invaluable partners in our joint effort 
to bring sustainable development to my island.
As  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  aptly 
described  in  his  opening  statement,  setting  the  stage 
for sustainable development will require introspection, 
frank discussion and coming to terms with some hard 
truths  about  the  nature  of  the  challenges  we  face  and 
the  institutions  we  have  at  hand  to  respond.  Only  by 
20/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
correctly  diagnosing  the  problems  and  choosing  the 
appropriate tools to begin our work will we be able to 
reach satisfactory outcomes that benefit us all. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Nauru for the statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe.
Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  G.  Mugabe, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Mugabe: Let me begin by extending my 
warmest congratulations to Mr. John William Ashe on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-eighth  session.  His  election  to  that  esteemed 
office is a fitting tribute to the personal and diplomatic 
qualities that he has exhibited over the years.
Throughout the world, peace and development have 
remained dominant themes of our times. People all over 
the  world  have  been  raising  their  voices  in  favour  of 
peace, development and cooperation, and against war, 
poverty and confrontation. Here at the United Nations 
we all acknowledge that peace, security, development 
and human rights are the pillars of the United Nations 
system  and  the  cornerstones  of  our  collective  well-
being.
In  that  regard,  the  theme  for  this  session,  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  is 
quite pertinent and timely, as it gives fresh impetus to 
our  understanding  that  achieving  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and  mapping  the  way 
forward  beyond  2015  requires  our  collective  efforts. 
The  United  Nations,  as  the  centre  for  international 
cooperation,  should  lead  in  promoting  the  envisaged 
development.
Thirteen  years  ago,  our  global  efforts  were 
mobilized behind the Millennium Development Goals. 
We  now  have  less  than  1,000  days  in  which  to  meet 
those  targets.  Our  review  and  stocktaking  exercise 
reveals  that,  while  there  have  been  some  significant 
achievements, there are still gaps and unevenness in the 
attainment of the Goals. 
In the case of Zimbabwe, we have made progress 
towards achieving universal access to primary education 
and  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis. 
However,  some  of  the  Goals  are  off  track  owing  to 
lack  of  capacity  —  mainly  financial  capacity  —  and 
in some areas progress has stalled, including in those 
areas relating to the eradication of poverty and hunger, 
child  mortality,  universal  access  to  maternal  and 
reproductive  health,  environmental  sustainability  and 
access  to  potable  water  and  sanitation.  As  a  country, 
we are committed to undertaking coordinated efforts to 
accelerate progress to complete the unfinished business 
of the MDGs in the remaining period leading up to 2015. 
Any goals that have not been achieved by then should 
be integrated into the post-2015 development agenda.
Zimbabwe fully shares and supports the emerging 
consensus that eradicating poverty in all its dimensions 
should  be  the  overarching  goal  of  our  post-2015 
agenda.  Eradicating  poverty  by  2030  may  be  an 
ambitious goal, but it is attainable if we mobilize our 
collective  efforts.  Building  on  the  foundation  of  the 
MDGs,  the  post-2015  agenda  should  go  beyond  the 
social  development  agenda  of  the  MDGs  and  achieve 
structural transformation in our economies that delivers 
inclusive  and  sustainable  growth.  We  expect  a  shift 
that will bring about industrialization, decent jobs and 
qualitative change to the lives of our citizens. We are 
determined to modernize our infrastructure and ensure 
access to sustainable energy for all, food security and 
nutrition. However, we recognize that we cannot do that 
in isolation from other partners.
In the same vein, we also support calls to prioritize 
gender  equality,  the  health-related  MDGs,  education 
and  environmental  sustainability  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  among  other  issues.  Those  are 
critical  matters  in  our  quest  to  achieve  sustainable 
development for all our people.
The  lofty  objectives  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations in the economic arena will remain unfulfilled 
13-48656
21/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
in 
unless  all  Member  States  join  in  efforts,  genuinely 
and  seriously,  to  address  challenges  that  developing 
countries  face 
their  pursuit  of  development, 
including meeting the MDGs. It is therefore imperative 
that our discussions address what has so far been the 
weakest link, namely, the means of implementation. It 
must be understood that, in addition to national efforts, 
substantial  international  support  and  an  enabling 
international economic environment are essential if the 
MDGs are to be achieved by 2015, especially in Africa. 
It  is  therefore  important  to  fulfil  the  commitments 
made to support Africa in various international forums. 
The United Nations should track the fulfilment of those 
commitments.
Zimbabwe  supports  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  to  strengthen  its  central  role  in  promoting 
multilateralism and to be effective in tackling current 
and  future  global  challenges.  We  are  convinced  that 
reform  would  strengthen  the  Organization’s  capacity 
to  fully  promote  and  implement  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  improve  its  democratic 
decision-making.
In  that  regard,  the  reforms  in  the  economic 
and  social  actions  of  the  United  Nations  remain  of 
fundamental  importance  to  us.  Our  firm  belief  in 
multilateral cooperation means that we place a premium 
in  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  deliver 
efficient  development  cooperation.  The  democratic 
transformation of the architecture of the international 
financial  system  is  essential,  as  is  a  root-and-branch 
reform of the international trading system. The terms 
of trade have hugely burdened developing countries for 
too long.
Zimbabwe 
supports 
the  ongoing  efforts 
to 
revitalize  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  the  most 
representative organ of the United Nations. We believe 
that  the  Assembly  should  take  the  lead  in  setting  the 
global agenda and restore its primacy, which has over 
the  years  been  encroached  upon  by  other  organs.  We 
cannot accept situations whereby the Security Council is 
increasingly encroaching upon issues that traditionally 
fall  within  the  General  Assembly’s  purview  and 
competence,  including  in  the  area  of  norm-setting. 
Recent events have revealed that the formal decisions of 
the Security Council have provided camouflage to neo-
imperialist  forces  of  aggression  seeking  to  militarily 
intervene in smaller countries in order to effect regime 
change  and  acquire  complete  control  of  their  wealth. 
That  was  the  case  in  Libya,  where,  in  the  name  of 
protecting civilians, NATO forces were deployed with 
an undeclared mission to eliminate Al-Qadhafi and his 
family. A similar campaign was undertaken in Iraq by 
the Bush and Blair forces under the guise of eradicating 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  which  Saddam  Hussein 
never possessed.
We  appreciate  the  central  role  that  the  United 
Nations  should  play  in  furthering  multilateralism  in 
preference to unilateralism. In that regard, we applaud 
the  consultations  and  negotiations  on  the  eventual 
destruction  of  the  chemical  weapons  in  Syria.  My 
country  expresses  its  gratitude  and  appreciation  to 
Russia  and  China  for  their  principled  stand  on  Syria. 
We hope and trust that the Syrian people will soon sit 
in  dialogue  to  discuss  peace  and  desirable  political 
reforms.  Those  Western  countries 
in  pursuit  of 
hegemony as they pretend to be advocates of democracy 
must be resisted.
For  Africa,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
is  especially  long  overdue.  The  anachronistic  and 
unrepresentative  character  of  the  Council  must  be 
redressed. For how long should Africa continue to be 
denied  the  right  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  the  Security 
Council  as  it  decides  measures  on  conflicts  within 
the  borders  of  that  very  continent?  The  Security 
Council  needs  to  be  more  representative,  democratic, 
transparent,  accountable  and  accessible  to  the  wider 
membership for its decisions to have greater legitimacy. 
Africa’s case for the correction of the glaring historical 
injustice  of  being  unrepresented  in  the  permanent 
category  and  underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent 
category has been made through the clear, fair and well 
articulated  Ezulwini  Consensus.  Zimbabwe  remains 
steadfast  in  its  support  of  the  Ezulwini  Consensus, 
which is, in fact, a demand.
Zimbabwe strongly condemns the use of unilateral 
economic  sanctions  as  a  foreign  policy  tool  to  effect 
regime change. The illegal economic sanctions imposed 
on  Zimbabwe  by  the  United  States  and  the  European 
Union  violate  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  on  State  sovereignty  and  the 
non-interference in the domestic affairs of a sovereign 
State.  Moreover,  those  illegal  sanctions  continue  to 
inflict economic deprivation and human suffering on all 
Zimbabweans. In the eyes of our people, the sanctions 
constitute a form of hostility and violence against them 
for  the  simple  crime  of  undertaking  the  land  reform 
programme by which land was put in the hands of the 
then  majority  landless  Zimbabweans.  Our  small  and 
22/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
peaceful  country  is  threatened  daily  by  covetous  and 
bigoted  big  Powers  whose  hunger  for  domination  and 
control  over  other  nations  and  their  resources  knows 
no bounds.
Shame,  shame,  shame,  we  say  to  the  United 
States  of  America.  Shame,  shame,  shame,  we  say  to 
Britain  and  its  allies,  who  have  continued  to  impose 
illegal  sanctions  on  our  people.  Zimbabwe  is  for 
Zimbabweans;  so  are  its  ample  resources.  I  ask  those 
countries to please remove their illegal and iniquitous 
sanctions from my peaceful nation. If those sanctions 
were intended to effect regime change, well, the results 
of the recent national elections have clearly shown them 
that they cannot achieve their agenda.
We  are  preached  to  daily  by  the  West  on  the 
virtues of democracy and freedom, which they do not 
entirely  espouse.  Zimbabwe  took  up  arms  precisely 
to  achieve  freedom  and  democracy.  There  was  none 
during colonialism, and it was British colonialism, for 
that matter. Yet we have been punished by the United 
States  through  the  odious  Zimbabwe  Democracy  and 
Economic  Recovery  Act,  which  it  enacted  in  2001  to 
effect regime change in our country. Now that malicious 
intent to continue with the relentless persecution of our 
small, peaceful country has shown itself again, through 
the  rejection  by  the  United  States  of  the  recent  and 
absolutely  democratic  and  fair  results  of  our  general 
elections of 31 July, even as they were applauded by the 
African Union and all our regional organizations. 
It appears that when the United States and its allies 
speak of democracy and freedom they do so in relative 
terms. Zimbabwe, however, refuses to accept that those 
Western detractors have the right to define democracy 
and freedom for it. We made the greatest sacrifice and 
paid the ultimate price for freedom and independence 
in  Zimbabwe,  and  we  remain  determined  never  to 
relinquish  our  sovereignty,  as  at  the  same  time  we 
remain masters of our destiny. As we have repeatedly 
and loudly said and asserted, Zimbabwe will never be 
a colony again.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Otto Fernando Pérez Molina, 
President of the Republic of Guatemala
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala.
Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez  Molina,  President  of 
the Republic of Guatemala, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez 
Molina, President of the Republic of Guatemala, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Pérez Molina (spoke in Spanish): I would 
like to begin my remarks by welcoming Mr. John Ashe 
in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  We  are  pleased  that  a 
representative  of  our  region,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean,  is  once  again  presiding  over  the  main 
organ of the United Nations. At the same time, I wish 
to express my appreciation to Mr. Vuk Jeremić for his 
outstanding leadership and stewardship of the Assembly 
at  its  previous  session,  during  which  he  honoured  us 
with a visit to Guatemala.
The year 2013 has been challenging for Guatemala. 
Last  year  we  undertook  to  reduce  our  levels  of  child 
malnutrition,  which  affects  4  of  every  10  children  in 
my  country.  In  addition,  we  decided  that  we  could 
not  continue  to  sit  on  our  hands  while  hundreds  of 
those children died of hunger. I am here to inform the 
Assembly,  with  some  optimism,  that  our  efforts  are 
beginning to bear fruit. Since we began the fight against 
hunger,  we  have  managed  to  reduce  infant  mortality 
from  malnutrition  by  50  per  cent.  Similarly,  we  have 
created a monitoring system that allows us to measure 
the  nutritional  condition  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
children, both to assess their growth and development 
and  to  prevent  deaths  among  children  under  the  age 
of 5. The challenge is enormous and we know that our 
goals  are  very  ambitious.  That  is  why  we  are  not  yet 
satisfied with the progress achieved, but we can affirm 
without hesitation that little by little we are winning the 
fight against hunger and child malnutrition.
The  fight  against  hunger  is  closely  related  to 
education. We want our boys and girls to study as many 
years as they can and wish, and with no less than nine 
years of basic education, which is the goal we have set. 
13-48656
23/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
But for that to happen, we have to ensure that they have 
the  nutrition  that  will  enable  their  brains  and  bodies 
grow healthily. We have to nourish our boys and girls so 
that they can study. And we must provide them with the 
opportunity of education so that they can be successful 
in their adult lives, both in the world of work and in the 
civic responsibilities that our democracy needs.
That  is  clearly  linked  to  our  second  goal,  that  of 
promoting  dignified  employment  and  a  competitive 
economy.  I  can  again  report  to  the  Assembly  that  we 
have achieved a 27 per cent increase in the number of 
workers  registered  with  Guatemala’s  social  security 
system  between  the  first  quarters  of  2012  and  2013. 
That means that our economy is creating more formal 
employment opportunities at the same time as we are 
making progress in establishing our country as a leader 
in improving the business climate in order to stimulate 
investment. 
I  am  delighted  to  say  that  we  have  developed  a 
growing  dialogue  in  various  fields  with  the  President 
of the United Mexican States, Enrique Peña Nieto. We 
see  the  future  of  Guatemala  as  clearly  related  to  the 
economy of that fraternal neighbouring State, and that 
is why we have been seeking to strengthen our relations 
in  areas  including  energy,  transport  and  logistics,  the 
modernization  of  customs  and  the  improvement  of 
security  at  border  crossings,  as  well  as  our  common 
battle  against  hunger  and  in  favour  of  peace  in  our 
countries. Shared prosperity is our banner, and justice 
our emblem.
In  the  same  vein,  we  have  expressed  to  the 
Government of the United States of America our clear 
interest in aligning our policies with those that promote 
progress  and  security  between  the  peoples  of  Mexico 
and the United States. Guatemala aspires to a tripartite 
alliance  of  prosperity  with  Mexico  and  the  United 
States that would serve as the foundation for solid links 
with the countries of the Central American Integration 
System  and  at  the  same  time  become  a  platform  for 
progress in the entire Caribbean region.
Again, we know that these are ambitious goals and 
that reaching them will require a strong and persistent 
effort, so as to achieve the common future of prosperity 
that  our  peoples  demand  -  a  demand  that  we  cannot 
and should not evade. Today millions of Guatemalans 
and  Central  Americans  live  and  work  in  the  United 
States,  and  more  than  50  per  cent  of  our  population 
depends  directly  on  business  transactions  with  and 
family remittances from Mexico and the United States. 
That  integration  is  a  fact,  and  we  Governments  must 
strengthening the institutions and policies that make it 
possible  to  make  best  use  of  the  achievements  of  our 
children, our citizens and our business community.
The quest for prosperity is also related to our goals 
of promoting peace and combating impunity. Security 
has been a challenge inherited by my Government, and 
we have resolved to address it by preventing violence 
and by enforcing the law in a clear framework of respect 
for human rights. We are far from having achieved our 
goals, but the progress made shows that our State has 
the capacity to dismantle large criminal networks and 
to make them accountable to justice for their actions. 
In that regard, I should like to inform the Assembly 
that in urban areas of Guatemala City, where homicide, 
extortion  and  insecurity  were  prevalent,  we  have 
managed  gradually  to  reinstate  peace  and  social 
coexistence. At the same time, our justice institutions 
report  that  overall,  impunity  has  been  reduced  by 
almost  25  per  cent  between  2009  and  2013,  with  a 
particular decrease in impunity for crimes against life, 
both  homicide  and  sexual  crimes  against  women  and 
children.
In connection with the strengthening of the rule of 
law,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  donor  community  in  particular  for  their  support 
for  the  International  Commission  against  Impunity 
in  Guatemala.  Its  mandate  has  been  renewed  until 
September 2015, and we hope that this period will be 
used  well  to  continue  strengthening  the  capacity  to 
prosecute  of  the  Public  Prosecutor,  the  Ministry  of 
Security, the Ministry of the Interior, the national civil 
police and the courts.
Building  a  country  that  is  prosperous  and  free  of 
hunger,  a  country  integrated  with  its  neighbours  and 
where justice and peace prevail – that is the standard 
that  will  guide  us,  and  those  are  the  goals  that  will 
move us forward. That is why we ask the international 
community to support us in moving in that direction.
Since  my  Government  took  office  last  year,  we 
have  clearly  affirmed  that  the  war  against  drugs  has 
not  yielded  the  desired  results  and  that  we  cannot 
continue doing the same thing and expecting different 
results. That is why I associate myself at this time with 
other countries that have spoken out in the Assembly, 
including Mexico, Colombia and Costa Rica, in stating 
that  in  the  face  of  the  global  drug  problem,  we  must 
review internationally agreed policies in the quest for 
24/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
more  effective  results  in  a  framework  of  respect  for 
human  rights  and  from  the  perspective  of  health  and 
harm reduction. The objective must be the well-being 
of society in all its aspects.
control  and,  of  course,  respect  for  human  rights.  We 
also believe it important that the special session be held 
here in New York City, because of its significance for 
the future of global policies on the drug problem.
Prevention must be given priority in order to reduce 
the impact on health and especially to reduce the level of 
social violence that is associated with the drug problem. 
In  the  same  vein,  international  cooperation  should  be 
strengthened so as to reduce illegal flows of arms and 
the funds that finance those criminal networks.
The new global strategy must emerge from an open 
and inclusive debate leading up to the special session of 
the General Assembly scheduled for 2016. We welcome 
the  Declaration  of  Antigua  Guatemala  of  the  General 
Assembly of the Organization of American States as a 
first step in the right direction towards the 2016 session.
I would like to add to this the specific views of my 
Government. I should first like to say that Guatemala 
commends the visionary decision of the citizens of the 
states of Colorado and Washington, which have led the 
way  to  an  approach  that  addresses  the  issue  of  drugs 
from  the  perspective  of  public  health,  the  prevention 
of addiction and violence, and full respect for human 
rights. Likewise, I wish to commend President Obama 
for his wise decision to respect the voice of the citizens 
of Colorado and Washington, allowing those innovative 
undertakings to prove themselves over time.
We  also  respect  and  support  the  example  set 
by  President  José  Mujica  of  Uruguay  in  proposing 
legislation  that  regulates  the  cannabis  market  instead 
of following the failed route of prohibition. I must also 
acknowledge  the  valiant  and  visionary  leadership  of 
the Secretary-General of the Organization of American 
States, José Miguel Insulza, who has firmly promoted 
a  climate  of  dialogue  and  reflection  on  drug  policies 
among the Governments of the western hemisphere.
Without  digressing  from  the  path  of  international 
cooperation against transnational crime, each country 
must  experiment  with  new  models  to  address  the 
drug  problem.  My  Government  has  decided  to  create 
a  national  commission  that  will  help  us  explore  more 
effective  means  of  dealing  with  the  consumption, 
trafficking and production of drugs. 
We  hope  that  the  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  be  held  in  2016  will  draw  on  those 
innovative experiences and take a strong stand in favour 
of public policy that can be evaluated objectively and is 
based on a focus on public health, prevention, damage 
We had the privilege of being elected to the Security 
Council for the period 2012-2013. Now that we are only 
a few months away from the end of our tenure, I would 
like to say that we have taken the provisions of Article 
24 of the Charter of the United Nations very seriously, 
not  only  in  decisions  based  on  our  own  values  and 
principles but also taking into account the fact that we 
are acting on behalf of the General Assembly. We have 
strived  to  comply  with  our  mandate  with  objectivity, 
a  sense  of  responsibility  and  professionalism,  while 
emphasizing security and justice and the protection of 
human rights and humanitarian law.
As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council, we have taken a position on the recent crisis 
in Syria. We condemned the massacre, with chemical 
weapons, of more than 1,000 people and insisted that 
a  crime  of  such  magnitude  could  not  go  unpunished. 
We  also  called  for  a  firm  response  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community  in  order  to  prevent  any 
repetition of such deplorable acts. Consistent with that 
position, we have supported the leadership of President 
Obama,  who  has  clearly  affirmed  that  peace  in  Syria 
and the Middle East as a whole must be built within the 
framework  of  a  political  and  diplomatic  dialogue,  but 
without abandoning our international responsibility to 
protect the citizens of those countries and of the world 
from the threat of nuclear and chemical weapons.
The President returned to the Chair.
We  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations  made  a 
singular  contribution  to  humankind  in  2000  when  it 
launched the Millennium Development Goals. That is 
why we are actively participating in the design of the 
content and scope of the post-2015 development agenda 
as a catalyst for development. We particularly hope that 
the international community will define the reduction 
of violence against women and children and universal 
access to justice as global priorities. Only in a world that 
is free of violence against women and provides justice 
for all can a path be cleared towards development based 
on full respect for human rights.
like 
I  would 
to  conclude  my  statement  by 
congratulating the United Nations system once again on 
its ongoing efforts to seek peace and justice worldwide. 
Guatemala  endorses  the  same  goals,  and  it  is  with 
13-48656
25/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
pride that I can affirm that we are and always will be a 
country guided by the principles of the Charter of the 
Organization.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I thank the President of the Republic of Guatemala for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Otto  Fernando  Pérez  Molina,  President  of 
the Republic of Guatemala, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the State 
of Palestine, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Abbas (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić on his outstandingly successful presidency of 
the General Assembly at its previous session. I would 
also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption 
of the presidency at its current session and to wish you 
every success.
I  am  pleased,  indeed  honoured,  to  address  the 
Assembly  today  for  the  first  time  in  the  name  of 
the  State  of  Palestine,  following  the  Assembly’s 
historic decision on 29 November of last year to raise 
Palestine’s  status  to  that  of  a  non-Member  Observer 
State.  As  representatives  of  their  Governments  and 
peoples, Members have championed justice, right and 
peace,  while  affirming  their  rejection  of  occupation 
and standing for principles and ethics and on the side 
of peoples yearning for freedom. For that, I once again 
offer my deepest thanks and gratitude today on behalf 
of  Palestine  and  its  people.  The  Palestinian  people 
celebrated resolution 67/19. They rightly felt that they 
were  not  alone  in  the  world  and  that  the  world  stood 
with them. They celebrated because they realized that 
the overwhelming result of the Assembly’s vote meant 
that justice was still possible and there was still room 
for hope.
I assured the Assembly last year that our quest to raise 
Palestine’s  status  was  not  aimed  at  delegitimizing  an 
existing State, the State of Israel, but at consecrating — I 
repeat,  consecrating  —  the  legitimacy  of  a  State  that 
should  exist,  which  is  Palestine.  I  have  also  affirmed 
before the Assembly that our quest was not intended to 
affect the peace process, nor is it a substitute for serious 
negotiations. On the contrary, our quest is supportive of 
the choice of peace and has revived a process that was, 
in truth, moribund. As we have repeatedly affirmed and 
proved in practice, the State of Palestine, which abides 
by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  resolutions 
of  international  legitimacy,  will  exercise  its  role  and 
uphold  its  responsibilities  within  the  international 
system  in  a  positive  and  constructive  manner  that 
reinforces peace.
A  new  round  of  negotiations  was  launched  a  few 
weeks ago, thanks to the tireless and appreciated efforts 
of the President of the United States, Mr. Barack Obama, 
and  of  the  United  States  Secretary  of  State,  Mr.  John 
Kerry.  I  affirm  before  the  Assembly  today  that  we 
have begun those negotiations and shall continue them 
in  good  faith  and  with  open  minds,  strong  will  and 
determination  and  a  sharp  focus  on  success.  I  assure 
Members that we shall respect all of our commitments 
and foster the atmosphere most conducive to continuing 
the  negotiations  seriously  and 
intensively,  while 
providing  guarantees  for  its  success  and  aiming  at  a 
peace agreement within nine months.
As we engage in a new round of negotiations, we 
must remind everyone that we are not starting from a 
vacuum or from point zero, nor are we lost in a labyrinth 
without a map or a compass, at risk of losing sight of 
the destination. The goal of the peace that we seek is 
defined  and  the  objective  of  the  negotiations  is  clear 
to all, just as the terms of reference and the basis and 
foundations of the peace process and of the agreement 
we seek are longstanding and within reach.
As for the goal of peace, it is embodied in redressing 
the  historic,  unprecedented  injustice  that  befell  the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  Al-Nakba  of  1948.  It  is  the 
realization of a just peace, the fruits of which can be 
enjoyed by the Palestinian and Israeli peoples, as well 
as by all the peoples of our region.
The  objective  of  the  negotiations  is  to  secure  a 
lasting peace agreement that immediately leads to the 
establishment of the independence of a fully sovereign 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
26/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
on all of the Palestinian land occupied in 1967, so that 
it may live in peace and security alongside the State of 
Israel. The negotiations must also resolve the plight of 
Palestine  refugees  in  a  just,  agreed-upon  solution,  in 
accordance with resolution 194 (III) and as called for 
by the Arab Peace Initiative.
We  reaffirm  our  refusal  to  be  drawn  into  the 
whirlpool  of  a  new  interim  agreement  aimed  at  the 
perpetuation of an interim State with interim borders, 
or  to  enter  into  transitional  arrangements  that  will 
become the fixed rule rather than an urgent exception. 
Our goal is to achieve a permanent and comprehensive 
agreement  and  a  peace  treaty  between  the  States  of 
Palestine and Israel that resolves all outstanding issues, 
answers all questions and allows us to officially declare 
an end to the conflict and to all claims.
The  terms  of  reference  and  parameters  of  the 
negotiations, their goals and the basis of the agreement 
we seek are all found in the Assembly’s historic decision 
to upgrade Palestine’s status, as well as in the countless 
resolutions  of  this  body  and  of  the  Security  Council 
and those of the League of Arab States, the European 
Union, the Non-Aligned Movement, the African Union 
and  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation.  In  fact, 
over  the  years,  the  parameters  have  become  the  basis 
of an international consensus, indeed, near unanimity.
Exactly  20  years  ago,  precisely  on  13  September 
1993, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the 
sole  and  legitimate  representative  of  the  Palestinian 
people signed, together with the Government of Israel, 
the Declaration of Principles Agreement on the White 
House lawn in Washington, D.C, in the presence of our 
departed  leader,  Yasser  Arafat,  and  Yitzhak  Rabin, 
the late Israeli Prime Minister, the King of Jordan and 
former President Bill Clinton. 
Some  five  years  earlier,  on  15  November  1988, 
the  Palestinian  National  Council  had  adopted  our 
programme  for  the  achievement  of  peace,  thereby 
taking  an  extremely  difficult  decision  and  making  a 
historic, painful and harmful concession. However, as 
representatives  of  the  Palestinian  people,  and  having 
long  been  aware  of  our  responsibilities  to  them,  we 
mustered the necessary courage to accept a two-State 
solution,  namely,  Palestine  and  Israel  on  the  borders 
of 4 June 1967 and the establishment of a Palestinian 
State  on  22  per  cent  of  the  land  of  historic  Palestine. 
Thus  we  realized  our  part  in  achieving  a  historic 
settlement,  upheld  our  obligations  and  fulfilled  all  of 
the requirements from the Palestinian side as set by the 
international community, in order to attain peace.
At the same time that the PLO affirmed its choice of 
peace as a strategic option and a solution resulting from 
negotiations,  the  PLO  firmly  repudiated  violence  and 
affirmed  an  ethical,  principled  rejection  of  terrorism 
in all its forms and manifestations — especially State 
terrorism  —  while  affirming  respect  of  international 
humanitarian law and United Nations resolutions.
As  a  genuine  historic  breakthrough,  the  signing 
of the Oslo Accords led to an unprecedented political 
movement  that  fostered  great  hopes  and  generated 
high expectations. The PLO worked with dedication to 
implement the Accords in order to end the occupation 
and to realize a just peace. However, 20 years on, the 
picture appears dispiriting and bleak: great dreams have 
been shattered and goals have become more modest. 
As  much  as  we  felt  in  those  days  that  peace  was 
at  hand,  today  we  realize  how  far  we  are  from  it,  for 
the  goal  of  the  Accords  has  not  been  achieved,  its 
provisions have not been implemented and its deadlines 
have not been respected. All the while, ongoing intense 
settlement construction, which aims to change the facts 
on the ground in the occupied Palestinian territory, has 
violated the spirit of the agreement, struck at the core 
of the peace process and caused a deep fracture in its 
cornerstone, that is, the two-State solution.
The  start  of  a  new  round  of  negotiations  is  good 
news, but it cannot serve as grounds for complacency 
or  an  exaggerated  sense  of  tranquility  on  the  part  of 
the  international  community.  The  negotiations  we 
are  undertaking  today  with  the  Israeli  Government 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States  require  that 
the  international  community  exert  every  effort  to 
make them succeed, namely, through international and 
regional organizations and individual States upholding 
the  international  consensus  on  the  goal  of  peace,  the 
objectives  of  the  negotiations,  the  terms  of  reference 
and the basis for a permanent peace agreement.
However,  at  the  same  time,  the  international 
community is asked to remain vigilant. The international 
community must condemn and put an end to any actions 
on  the  ground  that  would  undermine  negotiations.  In 
that  regard,  I  refer  above  all  to  the  continuation  of 
settlement construction on Palestinian land, particularly 
in  Jerusalem.  There  is  an  international  consensus 
among  the  countries  of  the  world,  international  and 
regional  organizations  and  the  International  Court 
13-48656
27/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
of  Justice  on  the  illegality  and  illegitimacy  of  those 
settlements. The position of the European Union with 
regard to settlement projects is a positive model of what 
can  be  done  to  ensure  an  environment  supportive  of 
and  conducive  to  negotiations  and  the  peace  process. 
It is also imperative that the near-daily attacks on the 
religious  sites  in  occupied  Jerusalem,  the  foremost  of 
which is the Al-Aqsa Mosque, cease, as the continuation 
of such attacks will have dire consequences.
of good-neighbourliness. Let us envision another future, 
one  that  the  children  of  Palestine  and  Israel  enjoy  in 
peace and security, where they can dream and realize 
their dreams, a future that allows Muslims, Christians 
and Jews to freely reach their places of worship, and a 
future in which Israel gains the recognition of 57 Arab 
and Muslim States, the States of Palestine and coexists 
in  peace  and  each  of  their  peoples  can  realize  their 
hopes for progress and prosperity.
History is the best teacher. It teaches us that waging 
war,  imposing  occupation  and  building  settlements 
and walls may provide temporary quiet and temporary 
domination,  but  they  certainly  do  not  ensure  real 
security or guarantee sustainable peace. Such policies 
may  create  a  specific  reality  on  the  ground,  but  they 
certainly  do  not  create  a  right  or  provide  legitimacy. 
Such  policies  may  impose  weak  stability,  but  they 
cannot  prevent  the  inevitable  explosion,  because  such 
polices in fact fuel situations that are already inflamed 
and cause them to explode. Above all, such policies are 
incapable of extinguishing the aspirations of a people 
for freedom, and cannot eradicate their living memory 
or their narrative.
Therefore,  what  is  required  now  is  to  heed  the 
lessons  of  history,  to  abandon  the  mentality  of  force 
and  occupation,  to  recognize  the  rights  of  others 
and  to  work  on  an  equal  footing  and  in  full  parity  to 
achieve  peace.  What  is  required  is  to  stop  relying  on 
exaggerated security pretexts and obsessions in order to 
consecrate occupation and to stop contriving demands 
that push the conflict out of its defined political arena 
and towards the abyss of religious conflict in a region 
burdened with such sensitivities. That is something that 
we categorically reject.
I  am  confident  that  the  Israeli  people  want  peace 
and that a majority of them support a two-State solution. 
We have always expressed our firm positions and have 
always explained them at the negotiations table with the 
Israeli  Government  and  in  the  meetings  and  contacts 
that  we  have  intensified  in  recent  years  with  a  wide 
spectrum of actors from Israeli society.
Our  message  is  rooted  in  the  idea  that  the  two 
peoples,  the  Palestinians  and  Israelis,  are  partners  in 
the task of peacemaking. That is why we keep reaching 
out to the Israeli side, saying: let us work to make the 
culture  of  peace  reign,  to  tear  down  walls,  to  build 
bridges  instead  of  walls  and  to  open  wide  roads  for 
connections and communication. Let us sow the seeds 
While we discuss the realization of peace between 
Palestine  and  Israel  as  an  imperative  to  achieve  a 
comprehensive peace between the Arab countries and 
Israel  in  accordance  with  United  Nations  resolutions, 
we  bear  in  mind  the  current  volatile  reality  and 
unprecedented  dynamics  besetting  our 
region. 
Palestine  does  not  interfere  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
Arab countries, but we have clearly affirmed our stance 
in support of the demands of the peoples of our region, 
their choices and their peaceful popular movements to 
achieve those demands, along with the programmes and 
road maps they have adopted to reach their goals. 
Furthermore, while we have condemned the crime 
of  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  we  have 
affirmed our rejection of a military solution there and 
stressed the need to find a peaceful political solution to 
fulfil the aspirations of the Syrian people.
The  overwhelming  majority  of  the  Palestinian 
people were born in Palestine and were sent into exile 
after the 1948 Al-Nakba. However, 65 years afterwards, 
they continue to be its direct victims. Since the start of 
this year, 27 Palestinian citizens have been killed and 
951 have been wounded by the bullets of the occupation, 
and 5,000 fighters for freedom and peace are currently 
being held captive in occupation prisons. Does anyone 
deserve an end to this occupation and the realization of 
a just and immediate peace more than the Palestinian 
people?
This  year  and  in  the  past  few  years,  Palestinian 
refugees, despite their neutrality, have continued to pay 
the price of conflict and instability in our region. Tens 
of thousands have been forced to abandon their camps 
and to flee in another exodus, searching for new places 
of exile. Do the Palestinian people deserve justice less 
than the rest of the peoples of the world?
Since  the  beginning  of  the  year,  construction  has 
been under way on thousands of settlement units by the 
occupation  authorities,  and  construction  tenders  have 
28/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
been  issued  for  thousands  of  others  on  our  occupied 
land,  even  as  additional  vast  areas  of  land  are  either 
expropriated  or  declared  off  limits;  850  homes  and 
structures have been demolished.
Palestinians are forbidden to plant on their own land 
and to use the majority of the area of our country, which 
is only 22 per cent. They are prevented from using their 
own  country’s  water  to  irrigate  their  crops.  The  wall 
and checkpoints continue to tear apart the lives of the 
Palestinian  people  and  to  destroy  their  economy.  The 
siege  is  growing  tighter,  along  with  the  attacks  and 
oppressive  discriminatory  measures  against  occupied 
Jerusalem,  its  holy  places  and  its  citizens.  In  Gaza, 
for years an unjust blockade has been imposed on our 
people.
So is there any people more deserving of freedom 
and  independence  than  the  Palestinians?  Since  the 
beginning  of  the  year,  708  terrorist  attacks  have 
been  perpetrated  by  settlers  against  our  mosques  and 
churches, our olive trees, our agricultural fields and our 
homes and property. Is there the shadow of a doubt in 
anyone’s mind that the Palestinian people have the most 
need of security?
Also, is there a nobler mission on the international 
community’s agenda than realizing a just peace in the 
land of the monotheistic faiths, the birthplace of Jesus 
Christ, the site of the ascent of the Prophet Muhammad 
and  the  resting  place  of  Abraham,  the  father  of  the 
prophets?
to  build 
As  they  remain  steadfast  on  their  land,  the 
their 
Palestinian  people  also  continue 
institutions,  to  strengthen  internal  unity,  to  achieve 
reconciliation  by  returning  to  the  ballot  box,  to 
wage  a  peaceful  and  popular  resistance  to  counter 
the  oppression  of  occupation  and  of  settlements  and 
settler  terrorism,  and  to  hold  fast  to  their  rights.  The 
Palestinian people do not want to remain “out of place”, 
in the words of Edward Said. Our people are waiting for 
the day when their cause ceases to be a fixed item on 
the agenda of the United Nations. Our people want to 
have freedom, God’s gift to humanity, and to enjoy the 
grace of living an ordinary life. For we, as Mahmoud 
Darwish  wrote,  cultivate  hope  and  shall  one  day  be 
what we want to be: a free, sovereign people on the land 
of the State of Palestine.
I  personally  am  one  of  the  victims  of  Al-Nakba, 
one  of  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  my  people  who 
were  uprooted  in  1948  from  our  beautiful  world  and 
thrown into exile. Like hundreds of thousands of other 
Palestine refugees, I knew as a youth the pain of exile 
and the tragedy of the loss of loved ones in massacres 
and wars, as well as the difficulties of building a new 
life  from  zero.  In  refugee  camps  and  the  diaspora, 
in  exile,  we  knew  the  bitter  taste  of  poverty,  hunger, 
illness and humiliation, and the challenge of affirming 
one’s identity.
Our people have walked the path of armed revolution 
and have risen from the ashes of Al-Nakba. They have 
collected their shattered souls and identity to put their 
cause  to  the  world  and  ensure  that  the  recognition 
of  their  rights  is  enshrined.  We  have  walked  a  long, 
difficult  path  and  sacrificed  dearly,  and  yet  we  have 
affirmed at all times our active quest for peace.
Twenty  years  ago,  on  behalf  of  the  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization,  I  signed  the  Declaration 
of  Principles  Agreement,  and  we  have  since  worked 
faithfully and diligently to implement it, affirming to 
all our respect for our commitments and the credibility 
of our positions. The successive setbacks encountered 
have  not  shaken  our  strong  faith  in  the  objective  of  a 
just  peace,  and  we  shall  continue  to  work  tirelessly 
and unwaveringly to see it realized. My own personal 
hope is to see the day when a just peace reigns so that 
the generation of Al-Nakba can pass on to its children 
and grandchildren the flag of an independent State of 
Palestine.
Time  is  running  out;  the  window  of  hope  is 
narrowing  and  opportunities  are  diminishing.  The 
current  round  of  negotiations  appears  to  be  a  last 
chance to realize a just peace. The mere thought of the 
catastrophic  and  frightening  consequences  of  failure 
must compel the international community to intensify 
efforts to seize this opportunity.
The hour of freedom for the Palestinian people has 
rung.  The  hour  of  the  independence  of  Palestine  has 
rung. The hour of peace for the two peoples — Israeli 
and Palestinian — has rung.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the State of Palestine 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
13-48656
29/36
A/68/PV.12 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Malta, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Muscat (Malta): I wish to join other delegations 
at this gathering in congratulating you, Mr. President, on 
your election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  am  sure  that  under  your 
guidance and through your excellent diplomatic skills 
we  will  have  a  rich  exchange  of  ideas  and  a  fruitful 
outcome. I also wish to extend my congratulations and 
gratitude  to  your  predecessor,  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
successful  stewardship  of  the  previous  session  of  the 
General Assembly. My deepest appreciation also goes 
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  whose 
passion and commitment have been instrumental in the 
work of the organization.
I will start by taking the Assembly back a few years. 
All here will certainly remember how not too long ago 
the world waited in anticipation and hope for the clock 
to push past midnight to the year 2000. As with most 
fresh starts, the new millennium brought with it a sense 
of  promise  and,  indeed,  something  extraordinary  was 
taking place.
For 
time 
the  first 
in  history,  Governments 
had  committed  themselves  to  “walk  the  talk”  by 
adhering  to  a  set  of  measurable  targets  aimed  at 
lifting  millions  out  of  poverty  by  the  year  2015.  The 
so-called  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  bold 
and  ambitious.  They  became  national  and  global 
priorities, setting Government policies and generating 
a  strong  commitment  across  wide  areas  towards  their 
attainment. Failure, it was felt, was not an option.
there 
Undoubtedly, 
remarkable 
successes.  The  number  of  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty  has  fallen,  as  have  poverty  rates.  Access  to 
sources  of  clean  water  has  improved.  The  proportion 
been 
have 
26/09/2013
of urban slum dwellers has declined substantially, and 
there  has  been  visible  improvement  in  the  areas  of 
health and education.
Yet,  as  significant  as  those  achievements  are,  we 
are  now  at  a  watershed  moment.  The  international 
community  has  already  recognized  the  need  to  push 
the  Goals  further,  beyond  2015,  and  to  see  that  they 
become  sustainable  development  goals.  An  important 
stock-taking  exercise  has  been  taking  place  so  as  to 
ensure that no one is left behind, that no human being 
feels  merely  like  a  scrap  of  life,  living  at  the  edge  of 
existence.
It  would  be  easy  for  us  to  think  of  poverty  as 
belonging elsewhere, if we did not see it all around us. 
We  have  the  luxury  of  exercising  wilful  blindness  to 
malnutrition  and  disease,  pretending  that  they  belong 
to  a  different  culture,  to  a  different  nationality,  to  a 
fictitious world that is wiped away as easily as flipping 
a television channel. It would also be easy for us to think 
that we can be altruistic, since we are lucky enough to 
live without want. 
But we are not here today to be blind. What brings 
us  together  at  the  General  Assembly,  year  after  year, 
to hear speech after speech, is a longing to belong. We 
want  to  be  part  of  something  bigger,  something  that 
goes  beyond  our  self-imposed  borders  of  language, 
culture and tradition. We want to belong to that global 
sea of peoples sharing a single purpose. That longing or 
need to come together tugs at our hearts with hope and 
empathy  for  those  at  the  margins  of  humankind.  We 
want to do something worthwhile. We want to commit 
our  intelligence  to  being  effective  agents  of  change. 
“Make poverty history,” we once heard, and indeed we 
have worked towards that aim. 
But,  as  we  hold  those  noble  aims  high,  we  also 
question  whether  our  plan  is  a  priority,  whether  it 
will fit within our national budget or our political life 
cycles. And then we pause to consider our options, to 
choose what will hurt us the least. The poor do not have 
the  luxury  of  granting  us  time  to  take  our  decisions. 
Humankind cannot wait for a better time, when there 
is no financial crisis. We, the international community, 
need to forge ahead with determination to reach all our 
goals. 
I  am  proud  to  note  today  Malta’s  long-standing 
history  of  solidarity  with  other  nations  all  over  the 
world. Our accession to the European Union took that 
solidarity  a  step  further,  and  my  country  assumed 
30/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
overseas 
assistance 
development 
responsibilities  and  obligations  in  the  context  of 
providing 
to 
developing  countries.  That  remains  a  cornerstone  of 
Malta’s  international  relations,  and  we  remain  firmly 
engaged in seeking the eradication of poverty and the 
sustainable  development  of  societies  in  need.  We  are 
proud to form part of the European Union, which is the 
world’s  largest  donor  of  development  aid,  and  we  are 
committed to reaching the goals that we have set and to 
being a reliable partner for those in need.
I am equally proud to recall that this year marks the 
twenty-fifth year since Malta proposed to the General 
Assembly  that  climate  conservation  should  be  part  of 
humankind’s shared concerns, a concept that launched 
the  process  leading  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. Malta is proud to have 
been at the forefront of that discussion. We are adamant 
about keeping the issue alive, for we are conscious of 
the  fact  that  climate  change  hits  hardest  the  world’s 
most vulnerable.
In  defining  a  common  vision  for  the  future,  we 
believe that the eradication of poverty and the promotion 
of sustainable development must be at the heart of the 
post-2015 development framework. In the words of the 
former President of South Africa, Mr. Nelson Mandela, 
“[o]vercoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. 
It is an act of justice. Like slavery and apartheid, 
poverty is not natural. It is man-made and it can be 
overcome and eradicated by the actions of human 
beings.” 
Malta  is  committed  to  continuing  to  engage  with  its 
international partners in developing a post-2015 global 
development agenda that delivers on the promise of a 
better and fairer world for all.
Malta  also  understands  the  need  to  act  in  other 
very  tangible  ways.  When  rickety  boats  laden  with 
irregular  migrants  reach  our  shores,  which  happens 
each and every day, we see the suffering, we feel the 
loss of dignity etched on people’s faces. We understand 
that they are caught in a web of poverty and criminal 
exploitation. We feel for those fleeing persecution and 
poverty. They are desperately searching for safety and 
prosperity. We do everything we can to provide them 
with the help they need, offering refuge and respite.
Yet Malta cannot do that alone. The international 
community  must  do  more  in  the  face  of  an  ongoing 
situation that is nothing but tragic evidence of our global 
failures. It would be easy to flip channels once again, 
to “park it in someone else’s back yard”. But it is not 
someone else’s problem. Irregular immigration, human 
trafficking  and  modern-day  slavery  are  everyone’s 
problem.  We  all  have  to  play  a  part  in  solving  it,  not 
only regionally but also globally.
There  needs  to  be  a  sustained  evolution  in  our 
thinking.  At  the  threshold  of  the  year  2015,  we  urge 
fellow  nations  not  only  to  think  beyond  the  current 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  how  to  ensure 
their sustainability, but also to think of other goals that 
could be included. There can be no unfinished business. 
There can be no sustainable development goals without 
peace, without fighting corruption, without respect for 
human rights and without economic equality, which is 
the social justice issue of our time. 
The news headlines may not shock us anymore, but 
those  living  in  fear  of  losing  their  lives  and  those  of 
their families do not live in order to make news. They 
look to survive. Whether scrapping for food or seeking 
shelter from bullets, whether hiding their daughters to 
prevent  them  from  falling  victim  to  rape  as  a  tool  of 
war  or  keeping  sons  from  being  forcibly  recruited  as 
child soldiers, millions of people all over the world live 
dreading tomorrow. Each day they die a little bit more.
We  bear  responsibility  for  not  safeguarding  their 
sense of belonging as equal human beings on this planet. 
Malta firmly believes that the United Nations can and 
must do more to safeguard human dignity and stir the 
conscience  of  humankind.  No  undertaking  can  be  as 
fundamental as addressing the needs of the peoples of 
the world, and no organization is better situated to see 
that that can be done than the United Nations.
Malta’s  geostrategic  location  makes  it  look  most 
closely at that which surrounds it. We are proud to be a 
people of the sea, of a Mediterranean Sea that has given 
us  life  and  marked  our  history.  We  are  proud  of  our 
contributions towards the health of that sea, the many 
exchanges  that  we  support  and  the  good  relations  we 
maintain with all our neighbours, North and South. 
But  we  are  also  troubled  by  the  conflicts  and 
suffering  that  we  see  around  us.  Waves  of  new 
tomorrows  and  hopeful  struggles  for  democracy  in 
North Africa have given way to new realities that were 
unthinkable when the Millennium Development Goals 
were drawn up. Sectarian strife, religious tensions and 
power  struggles  have  halted  or  reversed  the  progress 
of  development.  It  is  almost  correct  to  say  that  the 
13-48656
31/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
Mediterranean  Sea  is  at  a  boiling  point  and  that  the 
next  conflict  —  one  over  scarce  resources,  contested 
borders or even cultural offences — is just waiting to 
happen. But there can be no stalemate or acceptance of 
the status quo if we truly believe that the peoples of the 
Mediterranean deserve better. No violations of human 
rights or shaky institutions can be accepted if we are 
to look truly holistically at a new positive agenda for 
humankind. The deepening links between the lives of 
peoples  across  countries  demand  coordinated  global 
action. We must face that challenge.
Malta  firmly  believes  that  more  can  be  done  by 
the community of nations gathered here to support the 
fragile  democracies  that  are  struggling  to  take  root 
where  dictators  formerly  ruled.  More  can  and  should 
be done to ensure that the economies of the region are 
able  to  flourish,  that  intraregional  trade  is  supported 
and  that  cultural  exchanges  are  fostered.  More  needs 
to be done to stop the violence and bloodshed that risk 
becoming the norm for those of us who see the evolution 
of events.
Malta  calls  upon  the  international  community  to 
look with compassion on the innocents in Syria. That 
is a humanitarian catastrophe with no end in sight — a 
horrendous  and  indiscriminate  tragedy.  Each  child’s 
death and each mother’s wail should shame us all. People 
are morally outraged around the world, and justifiably 
outraged, for there can never be any justification for the 
appalling suffering that is taking place. 
The Mediterranean Sea basin remains awash with 
promise  but  polluted  with  pain  and  prejudice.  The 
Middle  East  remains  a  hate-filled  maelstrom  and  the 
most  explosive  region  in  the  world.  How  many  more 
need  to  die,  not  just  in  that  region  but  everywhere 
else  because  of  conflict  and  terrorism?  How  many 
more need to leave all their belongings to join hurried 
convoys, fearful of losing their lives? How much longer 
can the rights of others be ignored and trampled upon 
while others enjoy their perceived rights? We need to 
stop that wildfire. We need to stop the further descent 
into brutality and carnage. Those responsible must be 
brought to international justice.
Malta is convinced that we cannot start talking of 
a post-2015 agenda if we cannot solve our differences 
today. We do not have a carte blanche privilege to be 
immune  and  indifferent,  for  the  cost  of  our  inaction 
is greater than the cost of our effort and commitment. 
Conflict  saps  the  focus  from  our  goals.  It  drains  our 
resources and stifles our potential. The United Nations 
family, committed as it is to the purposes of peace and 
prosperity among nations, understands that. 
Malta  firmly  believes  that  true  peace  in  our  time 
needs to be the overriding goal, the one target to which 
we should all aspire and for which we should all work. 
We  need  to  ensure  stable  and  peaceful  societies  if 
we  want  to  take  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
further. The opportunities for all to thrive are at hand. 
The United Nations is and should be the force field to 
which all nations gravitate in order to solve differences 
and push boundaries together. 
Our global goals and commitments cannot be solely 
time-bound  but  must  also  be  outcome-oriented.  We 
need to think inclusively and holistically. Post-2015, we 
should not be looking towards rebooting, but towards 
continuity with greater purpose and greater ambition. 
Fewer people dying every day is a great achievement, 
but  more  people  truly  living  is  an  astounding  victory 
for all.
However,  to  get  there  we  have  to  realize  that 
everyone has an equal voice. People need to be involved 
in decision-making, since it affects their lives and their 
livelihoods. They should be foremost in our minds as we 
consider the world’s natural resources and tackle global 
concerns such as climate change. There is never only 
one  way  of  doing  things.  We  can  achieve  our  targets 
only if we listen to the people whom we are meant to 
represent and make them part of the decision-making 
process.
A  few  weeks  ago,  a  young  girl,  Malala,  from 
Pakistan,  spoke  in  this  very  Hall  of  her  dream  for 
girls  to  get  an  education  and  wield  the  power  of  the 
pen. Yesterday, at a gathering I attended, she said that 
everyone should send books, not bombs. 
Thirteen years ago, our leaders had a dream: to live 
up to the millennium moment and to better peoples’ lives. 
As we approach the year 2015, we need to remember the 
hope and determination we felt as we crossed into the 
new millennium, that determination to make the world 
a  somewhat  better  place  through  the  goals  we  reach 
together.  We  need  to  carry  that  forward  and  continue 
to make dreams happen. Every day, millions of people 
around the world dream of something more than a scrap 
of a life. Indeed, there are no scraps of life.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Malta for the statement he has just made.
32/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister  
of Japan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister 
of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Abe  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  First,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
I  would  now  like  to  make  a  new  pledge  about 
the  situation  in  Syria.  The  use  of  chemical  weapons 
has  caused  profound  shock  and  anger  on  the  part 
of  the  people  of  Japan,  including  myself.  Chemical 
weapons  must  never  be  used  again.  I  hereby  declare 
that  Japan  will  provide  thorough  support  to,  and  the 
greatest  possible  cooperation  with,  the  international 
community’s  efforts  to  dispose  of  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons. We feel righteous indignation about innocent 
civilians  continuing  to  be  victims.  Japan  regards  the 
cessation of violence, the initiation of political dialogue 
and  the  improvement  of  the  appalling  humanitarian 
conditions as issues of the utmost urgency. 
At  this  very  moment,  the  number  of  refugees 
is  soaring.  To  them,  Japan  will  provide  still  greater 
assistance.  We  will  act  in  cooperation  with  the 
international  community  to  extend  a  helping  hand 
to  internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees  fleeing 
across  national  borders.  I  take  pride  in  the  fact  that 
Japan’s non-governmental organizations and volunteer 
organizations  are  working  around  the  clock  to  help 
them.
Japan  will  also  continue  to  provide  assistance  to 
areas under the control of the opposition groups, where 
it  is  difficult  for  assistance  from  the  international 
community to reach. We are working to undertake the 
training  of  staff  working  at  medical  centres.  We  will 
also deliver portable X-ray devices and other medical 
equipment to those areas.
With  the  escalating  despair  of  refugees  now  as 
they head for a harsh winter, I would like to announce 
that  the  Government  of  Japan  will  provide  and  make 
immediately  available  approximately  $60  million  in 
additional  humanitarian  assistance  to  Syria  and  its 
surrounding  countries.  We  are  determined  to  conduct 
such assistance in parallel with the process of political 
dialogue,  notably  the  “Geneva  II”  conference,  and  to 
move  forward  in  cooperation  with  the  international 
community.
Our  nation,  Japan,  and  its  capital,  Tokyo,  have 
been granted the honour of hosting the 2020 Olympic 
and  Paralympic  Games,  seven  years  from  now.  To 
reciprocate that good fortune we have come to enjoy, my 
obligation first of all is to rebuild the Japanese economy 
to  be  vibrant,  and  then  to  make  Japan  a  dependable 
force  that  works  for  good  in  the  world.  I  pledge  here 
that  I  will  make  Japan  a  force  for  peace  and  stability 
in the world, just as it has been until now — or, rather, 
make it an even greater such force than it has been thus 
far, given the increasingly tragic state of the globe.
Japan  will  newly  bear  the  flag  of  proactive 
contributor to peace, anchored in the undeniable record 
of and the solid appreciation for our country, which has 
endeavoured to bring peace and prosperity to the world 
while  emphasizing  cooperation  with  the  international 
community.
The  balance  of  power  in  the  world  has  been 
changing  rapidly,  and  technological  innovations  are 
now removing all borders from both new opportunities 
and new types of threats. It is now impossible for any 
one country, no matter which one it may be, to safeguard 
its  own  peace  and  security  acting  entirely  by  itself. 
That is why Japan is working to garner trust from the 
world as a creator of added value and a net contributor 
to regional and global peace and stability. Under those 
circumstances,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  will 
become even more important than it is today. 
Japan  has  continually  promoted  the  concept  of 
human security, and the implications of the concept will 
surely  expand.  Through  the  accumulated  discussions 
over  the  nine  years  since  the  submission  of  a  report 
by the Commission on Human Security, the resolution 
on  a  common  understanding  on  the  notion  of  human 
security  was  adopted,  here  at  the  General  Assembly, 
in September 2012 (resolution 66/290). Guided by the 
wisdom  of  its  forerunners,  Japan  is  determined  to 
further spread the concept and build actual practices.
13-48656
33/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
I  will  enable  Japan,  as  a  proactive  contributor  to 
peace,  to  be  even  more  actively  engaged  in  United 
Nations  collective 
including 
peacekeeping  operations.  I  believe  that  Japan  must 
continually cultivate our human resources so that they 
are appropriate for use in United Nations activities.
security  measures, 
For  Japan,  whose  national  interests  are  firmly 
connected to the stability of open seas, changes to the 
maritime  order  through  the  use  of  force  or  coercion 
cannot  be  condoned  under  any  circumstances.  Japan 
has  great  expectations  that  public  spaces,  ranging 
from  outer  space  and  cyberspace  to  the  skies  and  the 
seas, will be rigorously preserved as global commons 
governed by rules and laws.
Japan, as a country that understands the horror and 
devastation wrought by atomic bombs, will utterly devote 
itself to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and 
the total elimination of nuclear weapons. North Korea’s 
nuclear and missile development cannot be condoned. 
Japan also maintains serious concerns with respect to 
other weapons of mass destruction that North Korea is 
likely to possess. Pyongyang should listen to the unified 
voice  of  the  international  community  and  rectify  its 
own actions by taking a tangible step. We demand that 
North  Korea  return  every  Japanese  national  whom  it 
has  abducted,  without  exception.  While  in  office,  I 
am  determined  to  resolve  that  issue  completely.  The 
normalization of diplomatic relations with North Korea 
remains  unthinkable  without  the  resolution  of  that 
issue.
As for the nuclear issue of Iran, Japan hopes that 
the  country’s  new  Administration  will  move  forward 
with concrete actions. We are ready to continue to play 
a role in resolving the issue.
In the Middle East region, a cornerstone for world 
peace  and  prosperity,  Japan  will  continue  its  unique 
contributions towards the Middle East peace process.
Japan  will  also  continue  to  extend  cooperation  to 
the countries of Africa, which are certain to become a 
growth engine in the twenty-first century. Firmly rooted 
in  our  own  experiences,  that  cooperation  takes  the 
fostering of human resources as its main emphasis and 
seeks  to  achieve  sustainable  growth  while  cultivating 
ownership  by  Africa  itself.  In  June,  my  Government 
invited  African  Heads  of  State  and  Government  and 
representatives  of 
to 
Japan, where it convened the fifth Tokyo International 
Conference  on  African  Development  (TICAD  V).  On 
international  organizations 
that  occasion,  I  was  deeply  struck  by  the  eagerness 
expressed  by  representatives  of  African  nations  for 
private sector investment. 
Investment  flow  to  Africa  now  exceeds  the  flow 
of  assistance.  I  also  heard  from  the  African  leaders 
time  and  again  that  assistance  should  be  utilized 
strategically  as  a  catalyst  for  attracting  investment. 
That  is  the  evolution  that  discussions  in  the  20-year-
long TICAD process have witnessed and given rise to. 
TICAD  V  became  a  forum  where  we  celebrated  the 
path  that  Africa  has  walked  down,  and  together  we 
reconfirmed  that  Japan  has  been  an  enduring  partner 
weaving dreams side by side with Africa.
I  hold  the  firm  conviction  that  the  future  course 
of  Japan’s  diplomacy  will  begin  here,  by  sparing 
no  pains  —  and  with  our  regained  strength  and 
capacity — to become actively engaged in meeting the 
historic challenges that today’s world faces. I consider 
“sparing  no  pains”  to  be  nothing  less  than  the  basso 
continuo notes that set the basic tone for Japan’s actions, 
be they in diplomacy or any other field.
As  a  country  with  such  intentions,  strengths  and 
achievements, Japan considers it extremely regrettable 
that the structure of the Security Council is still frozen 
in a state that reflects the realities of some 70 years ago. 
Security  Council  reform  must  proceed  without  delay. 
Japan’s aspirations to becoming a permanent member 
of the Council have not changed in the slightest.
Everything begins with Japan refortifying its true 
abilities  and  its  economy.  The  growth  of  Japan  will 
benefit the world. Japan’s decline would be a loss for 
people  everywhere.  How,  then,  does  Japan  aim  to 
realize its growth? Mobilizing the power of women will 
serve as both a source and outcome of growth, a point 
almost self-evident at this gathering.
There  is  a  theory  called  “womenomics”,  which 
asserts  that  the  more  the  advancement  of  women 
in  society  is  promoted,  the  more  growth  increases. 
Creating  an  environment  in  which  women  find  it 
comfortable  to  work  and  enhancing  opportunities  for 
women to work and to be active in society is no longer 
a matter of choice for Japan. It is instead a matter of the 
greatest urgency.
Having  declared  my  intention  to  create  a  society 
in which women shine, I have been working to change 
Japan’s  domestic  structures.  However,  that  is  not 
confined  merely  to  domestic  matters.  I  would  now 
34/36 
13-48656
26/09/2013 
A/68/PV.12
like to discuss how it is also an issue guiding Japan’s 
diplomacy.  To  begin  with,  I  would  like  to  state  four 
contributions through which Japan aspires to remain a 
leading member within the international community. 
First,  Japan  respects  the  activities  of  UN-Women 
and intends to become one of its leading contributors, 
and therefore an exemplary country in that area. Japan 
will  also  work  closely  with  the  relevant  international 
organizations.
Secondly,  as  other  like-minded  countries  have 
already done, Japan also intends to develop a national 
action plan with regard to women, peace and security, 
in cooperation with people working at the grass-roots 
level. 
Thirdly,  Japan  will  cooperate  closely  with  not 
only  UN-Women,  but  also  the  International  Criminal 
Court and the Office of the Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict, 
Ms. Zainab Hawa Bangura. It is an outrage that there 
continues to be sexual violence against women during 
times  of  armed  conflict  even  now,  in  the  twenty-first 
century.  Japan  will  do  everything  possible  to  prevent 
such  crimes  against  women  and  to  support  —  both 
materially  and  psychologically  —  those  people  who 
unfortunately become victims of such acts.
Fourthly, Japan will submit once more at the next 
session  of  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women 
a  draft  resolution  that  gives  careful  consideration  to 
women  in  natural  disasters,  as  they  are  likely  to  be 
vulnerable.  Japan,  which  experienced  a  major  natural 
disaster  two  years  ago,  wishes  to  garner  support  for 
the draft resolution, which embodies our outpouring of 
support for the matter.
I  would  now  like  to  make  use  of  the  examples 
of  three  individuals  to  clarify  Japan’s  development 
concept  aimed  at  bringing  about  a  society  in  which 
women shine, and also to shed light on some issues that 
must be tackled. I will first introduce the examples of 
a Japanese woman and a Bangladeshi woman, and then 
that of an Afghan woman, as the third example.
Ms.  Tokiko  Sato  was  an  expert  at  the  Japan 
International  Cooperation  Agency,  responsible  for 
improving  maternal,  newborn  and  child  health  for 
over 15 years in a remote village in Jordan. Undaunted 
by  the  suspicious  looks  she  initially  received  from 
the  villagers,  Ms.  Sato  would  speak  with  anyone, 
anywhere.  Devoted  to  her  ideas,  including  making 
use of public entertainment to persuade the villagers, 
Ms. Sato finally found herself accepted by the village 
community. Ms. Sato’s tenacity gradually transformed 
the traditional idea that the one who decides the number 
of children is the husband, not the wife, into a mindset 
that values the health of women.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  my  country  played 
a  leading  role  in  the  establishment  of  the  the  Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Japan 
intends to continue to make an appropriate contribution 
at the upcoming Fourth Replenishment, which seeks to 
secure additional financing for the Fund. However, as 
for the post-2015 development agenda, it would be most 
appropriate  to  broaden  the  focus  to  encompass  those 
diseases individually. 
Japan regards approaches that address individuals 
holistically as better able to meet their broader health 
needs. That is why Japan decided to promote universal 
health coverage — “UHC — on the occasion of TICAD 
V.  To  address  health  issues  in  the  African  region, 
we  have  readied  $500  million  and  are  at  present 
concentrating on setting up training for 120,000 health 
and medical services providers. With regard to medical 
care for all, there can be no doubt that the people who 
give the human touch to the three letters in “UHC” are, 
in  concrete  terms,  people  like  Ms.  Sato,  who  without 
hesitation go into local communities. 
The  second  person  I  would  like  to  introduce  is 
Ms. Nilufa Yeasmin, a young Bangladeshi woman and 
the  mother  of  two.  Her  professional  title  is  “Poly-Glu 
Lady”.  Poly-Glu  is  a  made-in-Japan  water  purifier 
derived from a food that can be found in Japan in great 
abundance. One simply adds it to turbid water. Poly-Glu 
acts as an adsorbent, adhering to excess substances in 
the water, and then falls to the bottom as a precipitate, 
leaving the water clear. It is necessary to teach people 
how to use it correctly at the outset, and Ms. Yeasmin 
and  other  Poly-Glu  ladies  serve  as  both  salespersons 
and instructors.
As members can see, as with what is called a “base of 
the pyramid” business, that endeavour is characterized 
by the expectations placed on the power of women. By 
combining her income with her husband’s, Ms. Yeasmin 
has been able to send her children to an institution of 
higher education. Poverty caused her to give up on the 
dream she had cherished as a little girl of becoming a 
doctor someday. But I understand that now she proudly 
states she has become a doctor of clean water. Can we 
13-48656
35/36
A/68/PV.12 
26/09/2013
not say that Ms. Yeasmin has acquired self-esteem, the 
most precious asset of all? My Government wishes to 
create as many Ms. Nilufa Yeasmins as possible. 
By the way, the company that makes Poly-Glu is a 
very small Japanese company. We will work to enhance 
the assistance to such companies and organizations to 
allow their ideas to bear fruit.
Finally,  there  is  one  more  woman  I  would  like  to 
introduce to everyone in the Hall today, but this Afghan 
lady is no longer with us. Her name is Ms. Islam Bibi, 
and on 4 July she was gunned down and assassinated. 
She was 37 years old and is survived by three children. 
Ms.  Islam  Bibi  was  a  proud  female  police  officer 
with  the  Afghan  police.  She  came  to  shoulder  heavy 
responsibilities through her nine years of service. She 
guarded polling stations to monitor elections and was a 
trainer to young female officers coming after her. We 
have much work to be done. However, we must proceed 
undaunted.
Under the auspices of the Law and Order Trust Fund 
for Afghanistan, Japan has been one of the countries that 
have always taken great pains to improve the capacity 
of the Afghan police force and cultivate female police 
officers, whose number will finally reach 1,800 — still 
far from enough. I have renewed my determination to 
continue to provide support in order to prevent another 
case like that of Islam Bibi.
I  wanted  to  emphasize  —  through  the  real-life 
example of Ms. Nilufa Yeasmin in Bangladesh  — the 
necessity of promoting women’s participation in society 
and their empowerment. My Government has prioritized 
that as its foremost policy and will continue to undertake 
highly  inventive  efforts,  including  launching  start-up 
businesses in Africa.
Through  her  actions,  Ms.  Tokiko  Sato, 
the 
Japanese aid specialist, has highlighted the importance 
of  maternal,  newborn  and  child  health,  an  MDG 
whose  attainment  has  been  conspicuously  slow.  My 
Administration will, as its second priority policy area, 
engage  greater  efforts  towards  women’s  health  and 
medical care.
their  protection 
Finally, what I hoped to convey through the tragic 
example  of  Islam  Bibi  is  the  importance  of  women’s 
participation  and 
the  context 
of  peace  and  security.  Japan  intends  to  promote 
measures  to  ensure  women’s  participation  at  all 
stages — including in conflict prevention and resolution 
and  in  peacebuilding —  and  to  safeguard  their  rights 
and the physical well-being of women who are exposed 
to danger in times of conflict.
in 
I would like to state here that in establishing those 
three  pillars,  the  Government  of  Japan  will  direct 
official development assistance in excess of $3 billion 
over the next three years, to target the pillars.
In  conclusion,  if  we  were  to  follow  the  wisdom 
of  the  so-called  “womenomics”  theory,  as  mentioned 
earlier,  the  development  concept  aimed  at  cultivating 
the power of women would generate greater peace and 
well-being in the world. I wish to bring about a society 
where  women  shine,  within  Japan  and  in  conflict 
regions  and  countries  suffering  from  poverty.  In  that 
context, I do not consider the outlook to be optimistic. 
However,  I  know  one  thing:  in  Japan  a  considerable 
number of people are working unsparingly towards that 
end. They are the people who are making every effort to 
ready themselves to be able to work together, in unity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Japan  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 2.50 p.m. 
36/36 
13-48656
