United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
54th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.54
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 14, 118 and 125 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/493)
Note by the Secretariat (A/68/230)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/120)
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  With 
respect to agenda items 14 and 118, members will recall 
that  the  Assembly  adopted  resolution  68/6,  entitled 
“Outcome document of the special event to follow-up 
on  efforts  made  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals”,  at  its  32nd  plenary  meeting,  on 
9 October.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Indonesia.
Mr. Poernomo (Indonesia): I would like to express 
my  delegation’s  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  reports  (A/68/493,  A/68/230, 
A/68/120) pertaining to the agenda items under which 
we  are  deliberating  this  morning.  In  line  with  the 
reports, Indonesia believes that States have the primary 
obligation  to  ensure  the  promotion  of  the  rights  to 
water and sanitation by enacting relevant policies and 
legislation  that  uphold  gender  equality,  vulnerable 
groups  and  anti-discrimination. 
regard, 
Indonesia  supports  the  integration  of  that  issue  into 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  looks  forward 
to continuing efforts that ensure the promotion of the 
rights to water and sanitation at the global level.
that 
In 
On  the  issue  of  population  and  the  development, 
we  note  the  importance  of  the  follow-up  to  the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  beyond  2014.  We 
welcome  the  plan  to  convene  a  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)    during  its 
sixty-ninth  session.  Indonesia  is  of  the  view  that  the 
issue  of  population  is  essential,  as  it  affects  the  cost 
of national economic development. In that context, the 
assessment of the status of implementation of the ICPD 
Programme of Action during the forty-seventh session 
of the Commission on Population and Development, in 
2014, will be crucial to providing a solid foundation for 
the success of the special session.
On  the  issues  of  promoting  the  participation  of 
women  in  development,  Indonesia  is  of  the  view  that 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment  is  an 
essential  component  of  development  and  needs  to  be 
integrated into the post-2015 development agenda.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-57245 (E)
*1357245*
A/68/PV.54 
20/11/2013
With  regard  to  UN-Women’s  strategic  plan  for 
2014-2017, Indonesia wishes to reiterate its expectation 
that  the  plan  will  go  beyond  detailing  output  and 
achievement  indicators  for  UN-Women.  It  should 
identify  UN-Women’s  commitment  to  and  provision 
for responding to the various challenges that countries 
face, in line with their individual development priorities 
and needs.
Indonesia  supports  continued  efforts  to  ensure 
that the United Nations develops into a more credible 
and accountable body. The General Assembly plays an 
important role in promoting global budget transparency 
by  setting  accountability  standards  throughout  the 
United  Nations  system.  Indonesia  supports  efforts  to 
strengthen the Organization’s ability to fully implement 
its mandate and ensure the effective implementation of 
all  United  Nations  programmes.  Reform  efforts  must 
reflect the unique character of the United Nations. In 
that  regard,  efforts  to  promote  greater  accountability 
in  the  United  Nations  system,  including  through  its 
internal  and  external  oversight  bodies,  should  be 
continuously  supported  and  enhanced  by  all  relevant 
stakeholders.
Budget 
transparency  and  accountability  are 
increasingly  seen  as  an  important  precondition  for 
effective governance. In addition to generating economic 
benefits,  they  also  function  as  a  political  expression 
of  good  governance.  For  sustaining  such  governance 
and  rigorous  budget  accountability,  we  would  like  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  making  accurate  data 
and information available in an efficient, cost-effective 
manner 
technology.  We  are 
pleased to say that Indonesia has established a national 
strategy for integrating information technology system 
outputs, thus enabling them to be stored in a national 
data center. Those data outputs can be accessed, linked 
to and matched online by our supreme audit institution. 
That  mechanism,  known  as  an  electronic  audit,  has 
succeeded in systematically preventing and eradicating 
corruption. It has made a significant contribution to our 
national efforts to accomplish the Indonesian dream of 
a zero-tolerant and corruption-free country.
information 
through 
effective 
Strengthening  supreme  audit  institutions  is  also 
essential  to  promoting  good  governance.  Efficient, 
accountable, 
public 
administration has a vital role to play in implementing 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In  that 
context, we urge for full implementation of resolution 
transparent 
and 
66/209,  on  promoting  the  efficiency,  accountability, 
effectiveness and transparency of public administration 
by  strengthening  supreme  audit  institutions,  which  is 
also  crucial  to  enhancing  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Organization  of 
Supreme Audit Institutions.
Our  leaders  adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  as  a  promise  to  current  and  future 
generations  to  establish  a  world  where  everyone  can 
live in dignity, free from want and fear. As we approach 
the  post-MDG  period,  it  is  our  fervent  hope  that  the 
global development agenda beyond 2015 can also serve 
as  an  effective  platform  for  focusing  political  will 
and  momentum  behind  the  global  effort  to  eradicate 
poverty  through  sustainable  growth  with  equity.  The 
development  agenda  should  leave  no  one  behind  by 
ensuring equal opportunity and common prosperity for 
all.
Mr.  Strickland  (United  States  of  America):  on 
behalf of the United States, I would like to express my 
Government’s  thanks  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  secretariat  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and  Development  beyond  2014  for  presenting  us  with 
this report on progress to date in the preparations for 
the  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
follow-up to the Programme of Action (A/68/493).
The  Programme  of  Action,  adopted  by  179 
Governments at the 1994 Cairo International Conference 
on Population and Development (ICPD) and reaffirmed 
in  many  intergovernmental  negotiations  since  then, 
recognizes that for all of us to realize our full potential 
and our reproductive rights, we must be able to exercise 
our  right  to  attain  the  highest  standard  of  sexual  and 
reproductive  health.  The  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
discusses the rights, policies, programmes and enabling 
conditions that all individuals, but particularly women 
and  young  people,  need  in  order  to  successfully 
manage for themselves issues related to their sexuality, 
reproduction and health.
Yet,  19  years  after  Cairo,  those  goals  have  not 
been fulfilled for many, especially those who are poor, 
young, female, disabled or displaced, and who are too 
frequently  marginalized,  which  includes  members  of 
racial,  ethnic  or  sexual  minorities.  The  ICPD  agenda 
is  also  relevant  to  ongoing  discussions  regarding  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  and  as  such  our  work 
to  review  ICPD  implementation  to  date  will  have 
resonance  across  the  development  framework  of  the 
2/3 
13-57245
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.54
United Nations. We must continue to move forward on 
meeting the ICPD goals, and not lose momentum in the 
face of resistance or persistent challenges. One of those 
challenges is reducing rates of mortality and morbidity 
related to sexual and reproductive health, particularly 
for women and adolescent girls.
In  addition,  with  more  than  40  per  cent  of  the 
world’s  population  under  the  age  of  25,  we  must 
increase  efforts  to  meet  the  needs  of  adolescents  and 
youth and secure their healthy transition to adulthood. 
We  must  also  help  them  avoid  some  of  the  pitfalls 
that threaten to derail their futures, such as early and 
forced marriage, which is still all too prevalent in many 
countries  around  the  world.  In  particular,  working  in 
partnership with young people, we need to support and 
provide quality education equally for girls and boys at 
least  through  secondary  school;  make  comprehensive 
sexual education available to all adolescents and youth; 
ensure  that  health  services,  particularly  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  services,  are  accessible  to  young 
people;  work  to  prevent  and  respond  to  physical  and 
sexual violence against youth; and promote and protect 
their  reproductive  rights.  New  thinking  and  renewed 
vigour in our approach and partnerships can bring us 
closer to attaining the ICPD goals for current and future 
generations of young people.
It is the United States priority that women and girls 
everywhere  should  achieve  the  freedom  to  decide  for 
themselves  on  matters  of  their  own  sexuality,  so  that 
they  may  enjoy  strong,  healthy  families  and  live  in 
thriving  communities  and  nations.  We  commend  the 
efforts of the ICPD Programme of Action beyond 2014 
secretariat  to  report  on  progress  to  date  in  reviewing 
the  global  implementation  of  the  ICPD,  and  we  are 
committed to working together with all Member States 
over the coming year to ensure a positive outcome to 
the global review process.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
its 
Assembly  has 
consideration of agenda items 14, 118 and 125.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
The meeting rose at 10.25 a.m.
13-57245
3/3
