United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
45th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 6 November 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.45
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Sinhaseni 
(Thailand), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 88 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/68/324)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.10)
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This  is 
a new experience for me here, and I appreciate it very 
much.  Let  me  first  thank  you,  Sir.  I  would  like  to 
express my thanks to Director General Amano for his 
report (see A/68/PV,43).
As  a  cost-effective,  environmentally  friendly 
and  climatically  benign  source  of  energy,  nuclear 
technology  has  gained  a  prominent  position  in  the 
sustainable  development  of  nations,  in  particular  in 
the  industrial,  medical  and  agricultural  fields  and 
in  producing  electricity.  The  inalienable  right  to 
develop, research, produce and use nuclear energy for 
peaceful  purposes  without  discrimination,  including 
the  inherent  right  to  develop  a  full  national  nuclear 
fuel cycle for peaceful purposes, is the very foundation 
and one of the fundamental pillars of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  Those 
inherent rights can never be suspended or restricted.
According to article IV of the NPT, not only shall 
nothing in the Treaty be interpreted as affecting those 
rights, but all parties have a firm legal obligation
“to facilitate, and have the right to participate in, the 
fullest  possible  exchange  of  equipment,  materials 
and scientific and technological information for the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy”.
Furthermore, in accordance with article III, paragraph 3, 
even the required safeguards
the  Parties  or 
“shall  be  implemented  in  a  manner  designed 
to  comply  with  Article  IV  of  this  Treaty,  and  to 
avoid  hampering  the  economic  or  technological 
development  of 
international 
co-operation  in  the  field  of  peaceful  nuclear 
activities, including the international exchange of 
nuclear material and equipment for the processing, 
use or production of nuclear material for peaceful 
purposes”.
Likewise,  according  to  articles  II  and  III  of  the 
Statute  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), the Agency shall seek to accelerate and enlarge 
the contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and 
prosperity  throughout  the  world.  It  shall  also  foster 
the  exchange  of  scientific  and  technical  information 
and assist research on, and development and practical 
application of, atomic energy for peaceful uses.
Accordingly, along with other statutory functions 
of the Agency, to assist member States in research on, 
and  development  and  practical  application  of,  nuclear 
energy for peaceful uses is its primary responsibility. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-54995 (E)
*1354995*
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
We believe that this role of the IAEA should be further 
promoted.  The  IAEA  should  be  allowed  to  work 
impartially  and  professionally.  That  is  necessary  for 
preserving  the  authority,  efficiency  and  credibility  of 
the IAEA and the continued relevance and credibility 
of the NPT.
In  exercising  its  inalienable  right  to  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy,  Iran  is  committed  to  its  legal 
obligations.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
activities  are,  and  have  always  been,  exclusively  for 
peaceful  purposes.  Iran  continues  to  cooperate  with 
the IAEA. All activities in the Iranian nuclear sites are 
under the 24-hour surveillance cameras of the Agency. 
In addition, the resident inspectors of the IAEA regularly 
visit those sites and measure and seal enriched uranium 
containers.  The  Agency’s  inspectors  have  carried 
out  over  8,000  person-days  of  inspection  in  Iranian 
facilities,  including  100  unannounced  inspections. 
Such  an  inspections  record  is  unprecedented  in  the 
history of the Agency.
Based  on 
the  most  recent  IAEA  safeguards 
implementation  report,  just  in  2012,  Iran  dispatched 
to 
without  delay  over  4,000  accounting  reports 
the  Agency.  On  many  occasions,  as 
trust  and 
confidence-building  measures,  Iran  has  cooperated 
with the Agency well beyond its legal obligations. As 
a result, the non-diversion of declared nuclear material 
in Iran has always been confirmed by all IAEA reports, 
including its most recent report, dated 28 August 2013.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  determined  to 
continue  its  cooperation  with  the  Agency  based  on 
its  Safeguards  Agreement.  According  to  the  joint 
statement  by  IAEA  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
issued following the recent talks at IAEA headquarters 
in Vienna,
“delegations of the Agency and the Islamic Republic 
of Iran had a very productive meeting covering past 
and present issues on the 28 and 29 of October here 
in Vienna;
“Iran  presented  a  new  proposal  on  practical 
measures  as  a  constructive  contribution 
to 
strengthen cooperation and dialogue with a view to 
future resolution of all outstanding issues;
“Following 
the  substantive  discussions 
it 
was  decided  that  a  further  meeting  will  be  held 
on  11  November  in  Tehran  in  order  to  take  this 
cooperation forward.”
This  indeed  is  a  new  chapter  of  cooperation  with 
the IAEA. We will continue this approach at the new 
round of negotiations with the Agency. We stand ready 
to make the upcoming negotiations a success. Based on 
our  new  approach,  we  will  continue  our  constructive 
engagement  with  the  parties  concerned,  in  particular 
the group made up of the five permanent members of 
the Security Council plus Germany.
The Islamic Republic of Iran is determined to resolve 
all outstanding issues through meaningful, time-bound 
and  results-oriented  negotiations.  The  adoption  of 
a  win-win  approach  is  essential  to  ensuring  that 
negotiations will result in the removal of the legitimate 
concerns of the other parties and the acknowledgement 
of the inherent right of Iran to peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy, including to develop a full national nuclear fuel 
cycle, and the lifting of all multilateral and unilateral 
sanctions. Through its constructive engagement and by 
presenting  practical  proposals,  Iran  has  demonstrated 
the  seriousness  of  its  desire  to  solve  the  outstanding 
issues  once  and  for  all.  Therefore,  the  other  parties 
should prove their genuine political will by seizing this 
opportunity.
Mr. Back (Australia): Australia is pleased to have 
the opportunity to commend Director General Yukiya 
Amano  for  his  briefing  on  the  achievements  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the 
challenges that it will face over the coming years (see 
A/68/PV.43). We congratulate the Director General on 
his election to a new term in that most important role. 
Australia  is  honoured  to  a  member  of  the  IAEA 
Board  of  Governors  and  a  non-permanent  member 
of  the  Security  Council  for  2013-2014.  We  take  very 
seriously the responsibilities that that entails. Australia 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  central  role  played 
by  the  IAEA  in  improving  the  safety  and  security 
of  nuclear  activities,  enlarging 
the  humanitarian 
contribution  of  nuclear  technology  and  verifying 
States’ non-proliferation commitments.
Australia fully supports the right of IAEA member 
States  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  in  accordance  with  their  international 
obligations.  All  States  members  of  the  Agency  must 
work together to ensure an effective safeguards system. 
Confidence  in  that  system  provides  the  necessary 
assurances  about 
the  peaceful  nature  of  nuclear 
activities and is the basic foundation for nuclear trade 
and  cooperation,  security  and  continuing  progress  on 
nuclear disarmament.
2/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
Australia welcomes the Director General’s efforts 
to improve the effectiveness of the safeguards system, 
including  in  relation  to  the  conceptualization  and 
development of safeguards implementation at the State 
level. Australia urges all States yet to do so to bring into 
force an additional protocol as soon as possible as an 
essential  step  in  ensuring  the  maximum  effectiveness 
of the safeguards system. As Director General Amano 
reminded us in July, constant vigilance and collective 
action  are  necessary  to  ensure  nuclear  security.  This 
year,  we  were  pleased  to  note  that  the  Agency  and 
member States continued along that path. Australia also 
acknowledges the Agency’s efforts in implementing the 
IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety, including a series 
of  international  experts  meetings  on  topics  central 
to  understanding  the  causes  and  consequences  of  the 
Fukushima nuclear accident.
We strongly support the efforts of the contracting 
parties  to  identify  suitable  options  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety, 
which  is  the  principal  international  instrument  for 
promoting the safety of nuclear power reactors. We also 
support the Agency’s continued efforts to strengthen the 
safety and security of radioactive sources, highlighted 
as recently as last week at the Agency’s conference on 
that subject in the United Arab Emirates.
In  conclusion,  the  external  environment  in  which 
the Agency operates is highly fluid. The Agency must 
maintain the capacity to respond quickly and effectively 
to  external  developments  be  they  related  to  nuclear 
safety,  physical  protection,  nuclear  proliferation  or 
sustainable  development.  Australia  will  continue  to 
support Director General Amano’s efforts to strengthen 
the  contribution  the  Agency  in  promoting  the  use  of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes in areas ranging 
from  cancer  treatment  to  water  resources  and  to  the 
cause of international peace and security.
Australia is pleased to co-sponsor and support the 
draft resolution on the report of the IAEA (A/68/L.10).
Mr. Tilegen (Kazakhstan): Kazakhstan wishes to 
express  its  warm  appreciation  to  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for introducing a most comprehensive 
analysis  of  the  work  of  the  Agency  (see  A/68/PV.43). 
It highlights the current and future roles of the IAEA 
in pointing the way for applications of nuclear energy 
and  technical  cooperation,  with  a  stronger  focus  also 
on  safety  and  security  measures  rather  than  purely 
verification.
Kazakhstan  notes  with  great  satisfaction 
its 
collaboration with the IAEA on its own nuclear energy, 
as  well  as  on  non-proliferation  and  disarmament 
policies at the regional and global levels. The Agency 
not only protects us from nuclear weapons and nuclear 
terrorism but also advances human betterment through 
peaceful  purposes.  To  achieve  that,  it  is  important  to 
bring international legal norms into line with the reality 
of de facto nuclear-weapon States.
At the same time, the greatest risks are associated 
with  States  that  are  involved  in  the  black  market  in 
nuclear  technologies.  Compliance  with  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  by  State 
parties  and  the  improvement  of  global  mechanisms 
for managing processes in the development of nuclear 
power and the safety of nuclear facilities are therefore 
of extreme importance. My country therefore proposes 
conducting  regular  stress  tests  of  nuclear  plants 
and  protection  systems  and  developing  rapid  rescue 
responses under the auspices of the IAEA.
To  harness  nuclear  capabilities  for  peaceful 
purposes,  my  country  collaborates  with  the  Russian 
Federation  on  making  our  uranium  available  for 
enrichment at the National Nuclear Centre in Angarsk, 
Siberia, for use as nuclear fuel in power reactors. We 
are  also  working  developing  the  Kurchatov  Nuclear 
Technology Park under IAEA surveillance.
and  non-discriminatory 
We  support  the  IAEA  initiative  to  develop  a  new 
non-political 
framework 
for  utilizing  nuclear  energy  based  on  multilateral 
approaches to the nuclear energy fuel cycle. Kazakhstan 
is currently finalizing negotiations with the IAEA on 
hosting a nuclear fuel bank on its territory.
Being  part  of 
the  Central  Asian  Nuclear 
Weapon-Free Zone, Kazakhstan strictly abides by the 
IAEA  safeguards  agreement.  We  also  adhere  to  the 
additional protocol in order to reduce the risk of nuclear 
terrorism  and  the  smuggling  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
radioactive  materials  in  the  region.  We  collaborate 
with  the  IAEA  in  order  to  address  the  environmental 
concerns  of  ecological  radiation  specific  to  Central 
Asia,  as  we  are  currently  doing  for  north-east  Japan. 
My delegation endorses the IAEA road map proposed 
at its most recent ministerial meeting.
Kazakhstan  supports 
the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  as  a 
solution that supports peace in the region and therefore 
commends the work of the IAEA towards that objective. 
13-54995
3/13
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
Kazakhstan is ready to host any future deliberations to 
move the process forward.
Tests and in the Nuclear Discussion Forum, initiated by 
Kazakhstan together with the EastWest Institute.
We are consistently implementing the International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear 
Terrorism and Security Council resolution 1540 (2004) 
in  order  to  strengthen  measures  to  combat  the  illegal 
trafficking  of  nuclear  and  other  materials.  In  2011, 
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  Office  for 
Disarmament Affairs and the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  we  hosted  a  training 
workshop  under  Security  Council  resolution  1540 
(2004)  for  30  experts  from  the  Central  Asian  region, 
funded by the Governments of Norway and the United 
States of America. We are currently viewing prospects 
for a similar training workshop in early 2014. 
As a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and 
the  Zangger  Committee,  Kazakhstan  maintains  the 
strictest  control  over  its  equipment  and  installations 
that  enrich  uranium  and  reprocess  spent  nuclear  fuel. 
It  is  diligently  implementing  the  recommendations  of 
the  first  and  second  Nuclear  Security  Summits,  held 
in  Washington,  D.C.,  in  April  2010  and  in  Seoul  in 
2012,  respectively,  and  looks  forward  to  The  Hague 
Summit in 2014. My country has ratified and acceded 
to four major conventions of nuclear security, including 
the  Vienna  Convention  on  Civil  Liability  for  Nuclear 
Damage.
In  view  of  the  growing  importance  of  nuclear 
energy, Kazakhstan has entered into an agreement with 
the  IAEA  on  technical  cooperation  for  2010-2015  to 
develop nuclear energy for nuclear education, medicine 
and  agriculture,  research  reactor  safety,  nuclear 
technology and radioisotope and radiation applications 
for collective global human security.
An  issue  of  great  importance  to  us  is  that 
Kazakhstan,  though  a  key  and  responsible  member 
of  the  IAEA,  is  being  denied  the  opportunity  to 
participate in the work of elective bodies because of the 
rules of procedure currently in place. Kazakhstan fully 
supports the early entry into force of the amendments 
to article VI of the IAEA Statute, and we are confident 
that a solution will be found. I would like to state that 
Kazakhstan contributes regularly to the IAEA budget 
and the Technical Cooperation Fund in fulfilment of its 
financial obligations.
We  thank  the  IAEA  for  its  collaboration  in  the 
observance  of  the  International  Day  against  Nuclear 
In  conclusion,  we  look  forward  to  another  cycle 
of even more productive collaboration with the IAEA 
to  address  global  issues  of  nuclear  technology  and 
security.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  My  delegation 
joins 
others  in  thanking  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano 
for  his  introduction  of  the  2012  annual  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  (see 
A/68/324).  Also  allow  me  to  congratulate  Director 
General Amano on being elected for a second four-year 
term, a reflection of the confidence placed in him by 
members of the organization.
Jamaica attaches great importance to the vital work 
of  the  IAEA  in  fostering  nuclear  safety  and  security 
and  promoting  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology. 
The  Agency’s  practical  and  meaningful  technical 
cooperation  projects  are  greatly  appreciated  by  my 
country and many small developing member States.
It is in the promotion of peaceful uses of technology 
to help improve the lives of people that Jamaica finds 
its relations with the IAEA to be the most significant. 
We have a strong interest in IAEA activities related to 
nuclear  science,  technology  and  applications,  and  we 
continue to benefit significantly from them.
Jamaica  became  a  State  party  to  the  Regional 
Cooperative  Agreement  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear 
Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  in  November  2011  and  attaches  great 
importance  to  its  cooperation  through  that  regional 
mechanism.
We are pleased that the IAEA has been taking steps 
to  deepen  its  collaboration  with  the  Caribbean.  That 
has  no  doubt  contributed  to  the  fact  that  a  Caribbean 
country  has  been  among  the  group  of  new  members 
admitted in each of the last three General Conferences.  
Those  three  are  Dominica,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and 
the Bahamas. Jamaica welcomes the IAEA’s increasing 
efforts to collaborate with our subregion and continues 
to take tangible steps to support those efforts through a 
number of initiatives, including through the co-hosting 
of subregional workshops.
Jamaica  has  benefited  from  projects  in  several 
areas and is actively engaged with the Department of 
Technical Cooperation, Division for Latin America, in 
developing projects in areas of high national importance, 
4/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
in particular health and water resources management. 
The project in health complements the initiatives that 
Jamaica and sister Caribbean Community States have 
spearheaded in the United Nations and the World Health 
Organization to address the grave challenges posed by 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  Our  efforts  are 
focused  on  both  prevention  and  cure.  With  regard  to 
the  latter,  we  consider  the  use  of  nuclear  medicine  to 
be  critical.  The  support  of  the  IAEA  for  our  efforts 
to  re-establish  a  nuclear  medicine  capacity  for  the 
management of NCDs, including cardiac diseases and 
cancers, is therefore of vital importance.
In recognition of the value and importance of the 
cooperation projects being undertaken with the support 
of the IAEA, we have taken steps to meet our current 
obligations  in  relation  to  the  technical  cooperation 
agreements.  We  will  make  further  efforts  to  meet 
our  obligations  in  that  area,  despite  serious  resource 
challenges.
In the field of research and technology, we are now 
embarked on the conversion of our reactor from highly 
enriched  uranium  (HEU)  to  low  enriched  uranium 
(LEU).  We  express  appreciation  to  the  IAEA  and  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  for  the  assistance 
that is being given to Jamaica, in particular under the 
Peaceful Uses Initiative. In fact, we are embarked on a 
project, in partnership with the IAEA and the United 
States, aimed at converting the fuel used in our nuclear 
research reactor from HEU to LEU.
Nuclear  technology  is  perhaps  the  most  sensitive 
field of human technological activity. The benefits and 
dangers associated with the harnessing of the awesome 
power  of  the  atom  require  careful  study,  safety  and 
security  protocols  and  measures,  as  well  as  constant 
vigilance.
In  the  area  of  nuclear  security,  compliance  by  all 
members of the international community with treaties 
and mechanisms that govern the development and use of 
nuclear material is most important. We look forward to 
the elimination of all nuclear weapons and the securing 
of a world free of all nuclear weapons. In the meantime, 
we  resolutely  oppose  any  expansion  in  the  number  of 
States  developing  or  possessing  nuclear  weapons.  It 
is  for  those  reasons  that  we  regard  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  and 
compliance with it, to be of paramount importance. We 
share the expressions of concern that have been voiced 
regarding the failure of certain members to comply with 
their obligations under the NPT, and we therefore urge 
all  members  to  ensure  that  their  nuclear  programmes 
are brought under the appropriate safeguards regime.
We remain supportive of actions to improve nuclear 
security,  given  the  lethal  and  devastating  impact 
that  a  nuclear  disaster  can  have  on  our  viability  and 
survival.  For  our  part,  we  acceded  to  the  Convention 
on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials in 2005 
and  have  signed  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
We continue to be disturbed at the frequent reports 
on the loss of nuclear materials. We therefore support 
the  efforts  of  the  IAEA  Illicit  Trafficking  Database, 
which records and analyses incidents involving nuclear 
and other radioactive material in an attempt to identify 
trends and/or characteristics to assist in the prevention 
of the misuse of nuclear or radioactive material.
that 
is  confident 
In  conclusion,  Jamaica 
the 
valuable  and  practical  cooperation  that  it  has  enjoyed 
with the IAEA will continue and that the fruits of that 
cooperation will redound to the benefit of all. We remain 
deeply committed to the goals of this important Agency 
and will do our part to ensure that nuclear safety and 
security goals are maintained and strengthened through 
compliance  with  the  agreements  and  mechanisms  on 
which we are agreed.
Mr.  Langeland  (Norway):  Norway  is  pleased  to 
be among the sponsors draft resolution A/68/L.10, on 
the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA) (see A/68/324).
and 
are 
Disarmament 
non-proliferation 
a 
cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. We place the 
utmost importance on the universalization of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
We therefore call upon States that have not yet done so 
to  join  the  Treaty  as  non-nuclear-weapon  States.  The 
IAEA  plays  a  crucial  role  in  sustaining  the  regime, 
which is essential for international peace and security 
and in moving forward towards our collective objective 
of a world without nuclear weapons.
Norway  reiterates  its  call  for  the  full  universal 
application of the comprehensive safeguards agreement 
and  the  additional  protocol  and  stresses  the  need  to 
resolve  all  cases  of  non-compliance.  We  are  deeply 
concerned  about  the  prolonged  and  grave  challenges 
to  the  non-proliferation  regime  posed  by  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea and the Syrian Arab Republic.
13-54995
5/13
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
The  IAEA  must  be  given  sufficient  resources  to 
keep its safeguards capabilities strong and independent 
and to be able to evolve safeguards in the light of new 
challenges  and  technologies.  Norway  has  therefore 
been supporting the IAEA in developing the State-level 
concept  in  the  implementation  of  safeguards  and 
considers  it  as  an  objective,  efficient  and  effective 
measure  in  that  regard.  Norway  supports  multilateral 
approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  and  appreciates 
the  contribution  by  the  Agency  in  setting  up  the  low 
enriched  uranium  fuel  bank  in  Kazakhstan.  Norway, 
furthermore, values the contribution by the Agency in 
resolving  current  outstanding  proliferation  concerns. 
Norway  will  contribute  financially  to  strengthening 
IAEA capabilities in those activities.
The IAEA is the keystone of international nuclear 
security  cooperation.  We  welcome  the  International 
Conference  on  Nuclear  Security:  Enhancing  Global 
Efforts,  organized  by  the  Agency  in  July.  Effective 
physical  protection  is  crucial  to  preventing  nuclear 
material  from  falling  into  the  hands  of  terrorists  and 
to  protecting  nuclear  facilities  against  unauthorized 
use and malicious acts. We therefore urge all States that 
have not done so to become party to the Convention on 
the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and its 2005 
Amendment.
the 
At  the  same  time,  we  must  recognize  that  other 
multilateral  efforts,  such  as  the  Nuclear  Security 
implementation  of  Security 
Summit  process, 
Council  resolution  1540  (2004)  and 
the  Global 
Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism are essential to 
prevent  nuclear  weapons  or  sensitive  nuclear  material 
from  falling  into  the  wrong  hands.  Those  efforts  are 
mutually reinforcing.
Norway  has  devoted  particular  attention 
to 
minimizing  the  use  of  highly  enriched  uranium  and 
greatly  appreciates  its  excellent  cooperation  with 
the  Agency  in  this  field.  My  country  has  contributed 
substantial  voluntary  funding  to  the  IAEA  Nuclear 
Security Fund.
Norway  fully  supports  the  right  to  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy,  as  stipulated  by  article  IV  of 
the  NPT.  The  purpose  of  multilateral  fuel  banks  is 
indeed  to  promote  that  right,  while  sustaining  the 
global  non-proliferation  regime.  The  application  of 
nuclear  technology  involves  far  more  than  generating 
electricity.  The  IAEA  provides  essential  technical 
assistance  in  the  use  of  nuclear  technology  in  health 
care, agriculture and water management. The Agency 
is  an  important  partner  as  we  intensify  our  efforts  to 
reach the Millennium Development Goals.
Fukushima  reminded  us  once  again  that  tragic 
accidents occur and that their effects transcend borders. 
We  all  have  a  stake  in  improving  nuclear  safety. 
Over  the  past  year,  Norway  has  contributed  and  will 
continue  to  contribute  substantial  financial  resources 
to the IAEA Action Plan for Nuclear Safety, including 
for the Agency’s work to strengthen safety capacity in 
developing  countries  that  are  embarking  on  nuclear 
power  programmes  or  have  existing  programmes.  In 
addition to improving nuclear safety, we must also do 
more in emergency preparedness and response.
To  conclude,  the  IAEA  remains  an  indispensable 
partner for our common security and development. We 
must  provide  the  Agency  with  the  necessary  political 
support and ensure it is fully equipped to meet current 
and emerging challenges.
introducing 
Mr. Kebret (Ethiopia): It gives me great pleasure to 
address this Assembly on behalf of my delegation on the 
agenda item under consideration. My delegation would 
like to thank the Director General of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
for 
informative  and 
comprehensive report (see A/68/324), which details the 
Agency’s  activities  during  the  past  year  in  the  areas 
of  nuclear  technology,  safety  and  security,  nuclear 
verification  and  technical  cooperation,  inter  alia.  We 
also  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Amano  on  his  well-
deserved re-election.
the  Agency’s 
Ethiopia joins other delegations in welcoming the 
Bahamas,  Brunei  Darussalam  and  Swaziland  as  new 
IAEA  member  States  as  of  this  year.  We  consider 
their  decision  to  be  another  positive  indication  of  the 
importance of the work of the IAEA.
My delegation commends the IAEA for its continued 
efforts in discharging its responsibilities to help member 
States  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  The 
IAEA technical cooperation programme, including the 
provision of guidance to member States in the peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy, is of critical importance. In that 
regard, the development of nuclear power projects and 
the promotion of the application of nuclear technology 
to the service of human health, medical service, food 
and agriculture and environmental protection are worth 
mentioning.
We  also  believe 
that  national  measures  and 
international  cooperation  are  equally  essential  for 
6/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
nuclear and radiation safety. We would like to underline 
that the Agency has a key role to play in ensuring that 
safeguards  to  address  nuclear  accidents  are  strictly 
implemented, and that the global nuclear safety culture 
is promoted in a comprehensive and sustainable manner. 
That is because we believe that the Agency’s safeguards 
are fundamental to creating an environment conducive 
to international nuclear energy cooperation in reducing 
the possibilities of dangerous radioactive leaks through 
human error or for technical reasons.
I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  commitment  of 
Ethiopia,  as  one  of  the  Agency’s  founding  members, 
to  practising  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technologies 
by respecting global and regional security monitoring 
and  safeguarding  mechanisms.  In  that  regard,  the 
Government of Ethiopia is committed to strengthening 
the national radiation and nuclear safety infrastructure 
to  ensure  the  safe  operation  of  equipment  that  uses 
radiation  sources  and  other  nuclear  materials  by 
adhering  to  the  promotion  of  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
applications.
The Agency’s responsibilities for ensuring nuclear 
disarmament under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  are  universal,  and  States 
parties  to  treaties  related  to  nuclear  disarmament 
and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  also  have  equal 
responsibility for halting the spread of nuclear weapons. 
In  particular,  the  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolutions 1540 (2004) and 1887 (2009) is essential to 
nuclear disarmament and to addressing nuclear-related 
threats, including those posed by non-State actors who 
seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction.
The  Agency’s  continued  technical  assistance  to 
our  Government’s  efforts  to  develop  capabilities  in 
the control of tsetse flies, cancer treatment, diagnostic 
nuclear  medicine 
isotope  hydrological 
analysis,  non-destructive  quality  testing,  and  national 
nuclear science and technology infrastructure has been 
useful  in  many  ways.  Indeed,  we  have  improved  our 
capacity  in  several  areas,  in  particular  in  manpower 
training, equipment acquisition and expert missions.
services, 
Ethiopia  appreciates 
the  Agency’s  consistent 
and  continued  advocacy  for  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
technology. It believes that the provision of sufficient 
and predictable resources to the Agency’s programmes 
and,  more  importantly,  a  balanced  distribution  of 
resources  among  its  safeguards,  nuclear  safety  and 
technical cooperation activities need to be ensured. The 
technical  cooperation  programme  is  in  fact  playing  a 
crucial role as a means to transfer nuclear technology 
to developing countries.
Ethiopia has benefited from the joint activities of 
the IAEA and the United Nations Food and Agriculture 
Organization in the application of nuclear techniques in 
the fields of crop and livestock production, sustainable 
control of major insect pests, soil degradation, and food 
quality and safety. Ethiopia views that as an important 
contribution to helping developing countries to meet the 
Millennium Development Goals, including, inter alia, 
through  the  improvement  of  agricultural  productivity 
and  childhood  nutrition,  poverty  reduction,  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability  and  the  development  of 
global partnerships for development.
to 
the 
IAEA,  particularly 
In  closing,  I  wish  to  express  my  Government’s 
sincere  gratitude 
its 
governing  body  and  its  leadership,  for  the  vital 
technical  support  and  continued  cooperation  that  the 
Agency renders to my country. I would also to reiterate 
Ethiopia’s commitment — in addition to abiding by its 
international  obligations  as  a  State  party  to  the  NPT 
and other disarmament conventions — to continuing to 
do its level best to further enhance the positive spirit of 
cooperation with the Agency.
Ms. Picco (Monaco) (spoke in French): I would like 
first to thank Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
his briefing on the Agency’s work and his report to the 
General Assembly (see A/68/PV.43). 
I take this opportunity to reiterate the commitment 
of my Government to two aspects of the peaceful uses 
of nuclear energy, an essential element to development. 
As recalled by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II at 
the opening of the Scientific Forum in September,
“[t]here is no peace without development and, more 
specifically, without sustainable development. That 
is the premise on which the IAEA was established 
as an organization of Atoms for Peace”.
Monaco  has  been  a  member  of  the  Agency  since 
its inception in 1957 and has hosted the headquarters 
of its Marine Environment Laboratories since 1961. In 
2010, the activities of the Laboratories were expanded 
to  the  terrestrial  environment,  thereby  becoming  the 
IAEA  Environment  Laboratories.  As  stated  by  the 
Director General, Monaco is also the host of the Ocean 
Acidification 
International  Coordination  Centre, 
created in 2012 in the context of the IAEA Peaceful Uses 
Initiative,  launched  by  the  United  States  of  America. 
13-54995
7/13
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
The  work  of  this  international  coordination  platform 
serves  the  Agency’s  member  States  with  the  aim  of 
enhancing  research  and  cooperation  in  countering 
the  consequences  of  climate  change,  which  acidifies 
the oceans and poses a serious threat to many marine 
organisms, especially shellfish and corals.
The acidification of the oceans has been the subject 
of  efforts  by  the  Scientific  Centre  of  Monaco  for  a 
number of years. I should note that representatives of the 
IAEA’s Ocean Acidification International Coordination 
Centre and the Scientific Centre of Monaco presented 
their  work  on  the  subject  to  the  Member  States  at 
the  June  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea.
Nuclear  applications  in  the  area  of  health  are 
also  essential.  In  September  2011,  on  the  occasion 
of  the  celebration  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
Environmental  Laboratories  and  on  the  margins  of 
Director  General  Amano’s  visit  to  the  Principality,  a 
framework agreement was signed aimed at strengthening 
cooperation  in  the  use  of  nuclear  technologies  in  the 
area of health. As a result, Monaco has committed to 
working with the IAEA in support of the Programme 
of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy,  designed  to  respond 
to a crisis of a global scale. Through the partnership, 
Monaco  intends  to  make  a  major  contribution  to 
the  prevention,  detection  and  treatment  of  cancer  in 
low-  and  middle-income  countries,  where  more  than 
100 million people could die of the disease by 2020 .
like 
to  reiterate 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
the 
Principality  of  Monaco’s  support  for  the  IAEA  and 
its  Director  General,  and  to  congratulate  him  on  his 
leadership.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Agency’s 
representative  to  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Geoffrey 
Shaw, in whom we always find a reliable and effective 
partner. It is in testimony to that support for continued 
cooperation 
that  Monaco  has  co-sponsored  draft 
resolution A/68/L.10.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Although  the  international  community 
unanimously agrees that the sole real nuclear danger in 
the Middle East resides in Israel’s possession of nuclear 
arms  and  the  means  of  delivering  them  to  distant 
destinations  —  Israel’s  nuclear  weapons  can  reach 
5,000 miles, as far as the borders of China — some of 
those who turn a blind eye to that crystal-clear reality 
are nonetheless quite happy to open illusory fronts on 
dubious motives.
It  is  evident  that  such  a  partial  and  non-objective 
approach  exposes  the  falsity  of  their  allegations  and 
of  their  declared  interest  in  creating  a  region  free  of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction 
in the Middle East. Although they have supplied Israel 
for  decades  with  the  nuclear  technology  and  material 
that  have  enabled  it  to  possess  nuclear  weapons  and 
their means of delivery, including advanced submarines 
capable of carrying and launching nuclear weapons, they 
tried their best, though vainly, to remove those Israeli 
nuclear weapons from the main discussion during the 
2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
failed 2012 Helsinki conference. They did so in order 
to distract attention from Israel’s continuing possession 
of  nuclear  weapons  to  the  detriment  of  the  safety 
and  security  of  the  other  peoples  of  the  region.  That 
unequivocally demonstrates their double standards.
In  his  statement  yesterday  (see  A/68/PV.43),  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) stated that the Agency recently came 
to the conclusion that
“it was very likely that a building destroyed at the 
Dair  Alzour  site  [in  Syria]  was  a  nuclear  reactor 
that should have been declared to the Agency”.
In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  make  the  following 
comments on that statement. 
First, the Director General knows that Syria made 
the  issue  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  a  national  priority  in  letter 
and  spirit.  In  1968,  Syria  became  an  early  adherent 
to  the  NPT,  and  in  1992  it  signed  a  Comprehensive 
Safeguards  Agreement  with  the  Agency.  Moreover, 
on  27  December  2003  Syria  submitted,  on  behalf 
of  the  Arab  Group,  a  draft  resolution  that  is  still  in 
blue, circulating as an unofficial draft in the Security 
Council,  aimed  at  creating  a  zone  in  the  Middle  East 
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass 
destruction. The credibility of our national commitment 
to non-proliferation cannot be questioned, particularly 
since  the  text  of  the  aforementioned  draft  resolution 
conforms to the provisions and goals of the IAEA. At the 
time, as is well known, it was rejected by an influential 
nuclear-weapon State member of the Security Council 
that threatened to use its privilege — not its right — of 
veto.
Secondly, the Security Council and the IAEA have 
not  condemned  Israel’s  flagrant  military  aggression 
8/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
against Syria at the time, probably because they are used 
to  Israel’s  violating  their  international  and  legitimate 
resolutions relating to our region with impunity. Israel 
has refused to cooperate with the Agency and to allow 
its  inspectors  to  verify  the  possible  contamination 
emanating from Israeli rockets, as well as the material 
used to destroy the site at Dair Alzour. 
Israel’s  lack  of  cooperation  with  the  Agency’s 
demands,  its  ongoing  development  of  its  military-
nuclear  capacity  without  international  supervision, 
and  its  disregard  of  every  call  for  the  establishment 
of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East undermine the 
credibility of the NPT system, threaten the security and 
stability of the peoples and States of the Middle East, 
and  weaken  the  NPT’s  universality.  All  these  serious 
issues  are  documented  and  well  known  to  the  IAEA. 
We expected the Director General to raise these facts 
instead of using such indecisive phrases as “it was very 
likely”, as he said yesterday.
Thirdly,  it  will  be  very  helpful  to  read  to  the 
Assembly  a  paragraph  from  pages  228  and  229  of  a 
book  by  the  previous  Director  General  of  the  IAEA, 
Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  The  Age  of  Deception: 
Nuclear Diplomacy in Treacherous Times.
(spoke in English)
“One  of  the  strangest  and  most  striking 
examples  of  nuclear  hypocrisy,  multilateral  and 
multifaceted,  must  surely  be  Israel’s  bombing  of 
the Dair Alzour installation in Syria in September 
2007, and the aftermath of that attack. Speculation 
began almost immediately that the site had housed a 
nuclear facility. Syria denied the accusations. Israel 
and  the  United  States  remained  officially  silent, 
although  American  officials  talked  anonymously 
on  the  subject  to  the  media.  I  spoke  out  strongly, 
noting that any country with information indicating 
that  the  bombed  facility  was  nuclear  was  under  a 
legal obligation to report it to the IAEA, but no one 
came forward with such a report. For the six weeks 
following the bombing — the most crucial period 
in  terms  of  seeing  inside  the  facility  —  we  were 
unable to obtain any high-resolution imagery from 
commercial satellites.”
Elbaradei goes on for pages and pages on this issue, 
denying that the site of Dair Alzour in Syria was hosting 
a nuclear facility. He was Mr. Amano’s predecessor.
(spoke in Arabic)
Fourthly, under the Statute of the Agency the United 
States  of  America  was  required  to  inform  the  IAEA 
of the information in its possession before destroying 
the installation, and not after eight months. The same 
applies  to  Israel,  which  did  not  supply  the  Agency 
with any information, accurate or otherwise. Rather, it 
perpetrated a condemnable military aggression against 
our sovereign territory, infiltrating our air space from 
a  neighbouring  State,  Turkey.  The  Agency  did  not 
address this violation pursuant to its mandate it or take 
any of the necessary measures, in accordance with its 
competencies and responsibility, with regard to Israel’s 
breach of its international obligations.
Intelligence  Agency.  This 
Most  of  the  contents  of  the  report  of  the  Agency 
on  the  Dair  Alzour  site,  drawn  up  by  the  current 
Director  General,  relied  on  the  imagery  and  analyses 
submitted  eight  months  later  by  the  United  States 
Central 
raises  many 
questions  regarding  the  information  received  by  the 
Agency,  including  on  the  nature  of  the  authenticating 
documents,  given  the  fact  that  such  information  was 
submitted  by  a  State  with  a  political  agenda  inimical 
to  the  interests  of  my  country,  Syria,  and  taking  into 
consideration the precedent set in this regard, namely, 
the Iraqi dossier, of which everyone is aware.
Mr. Umemoto (Japan): Let me begin by thanking 
the Director General of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  for  introducing 
the IAEA’s annual report (see A/68/PV.43). Let me also 
congratulate Mr. Amano on his re-election as Director 
General. I would like to assure him that the full support 
of my Government will be extended to him.
The  Government  of  Japan  also  welcomes  Brunei 
Darussalam and the Commonwealth of the Bahamas as 
new members of the IAEA.
The  Government  of  Japan  would  like  to  express 
gratitude once again for the great support and assistance 
that has been provided by the international community 
for more than two and a half years since the earthquake 
of  2011,  its  resulting  tsunami  and  the  accident  at  the 
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station of the Tokyo 
Electric Power Company (TEPCO). I would like to take 
this opportunity to briefly explain our current efforts to 
address that accident. 
Taking  countermeasures  against  the  leakage  of 
contaminated water is the most urgent task for us. As 
Prime Minister Abe has stated, the entire Government 
will  continue  to  work  in  an  integrated  manner  to  put 
13-54995
9/13
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
its  full  weight  behind  resolving  the  contaminated 
water issue, while also enhancing the dissemination of 
accurate information to the international community.
that  Japan  will  actively  cooperate  with  the  IAEA  to 
formulate  the  Agency’s  comprehensive  report  on  the 
Fukushima Daiichi accident.
With  regard  to  the  impact  of  the  contaminated 
water, increased radioactivity was observed within the 
port  of  TEPCO’s  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power 
station  in  an  area  smaller  than  0.3  square  kilometres. 
No significant increase in radioactive levels has been 
detected outside the port at present, and the radioactive 
level outside the port and in the open sea remains below 
the  limit  of  the  World  Health  Organization  guideline 
for drinking water quality.
The  nuclear  reactors  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
nuclear power station were cooled down and stabilized 
by the end of 2011. A significant decrease in radioactive 
releases  has  also  been  achieved.  The  Government  of 
Japan  and  TEPCO  are  steadily  taking  measures  to 
decommission  the  reactors.  The  decommissioning 
of  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power  station 
and  resolution  of  the  contaminated  water  issue  are 
unprecedented tasks in which we are facing a series of 
difficulties. A structure to bring together technologies, 
expertise and wisdom from Japan and the international 
community, including the IAEA, is needed.
In this context, the second IAEA decommissioning 
mission  to  address  the  contaminated  water  issue  will 
be  in  Japan  towards  the  end  of  November,  following 
the  mission  that  took  place  in  April.  Currently,  two 
IAEA experts on marine monitoring are visiting Japan 
in  preparation  for 
the  decommissioning  mission. 
Japan  will  deal  with  the  contaminated  water  issue 
and  the  decommissioning  work  in  an  internationally 
open  manner  and  will  welcome  recommendations 
and  cooperation  from  the  IAEA  and  the  international 
community.
Japan  is  determined  to  further  contribute  to  the 
strengthening  of  nuclear  safety  worldwide  by  sharing 
its experiences and lessons learned from the Fukushima 
Daiichi  accident  with  the  international  community. 
To  this  end,  Japan  hosted  the  Fukushima  Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Safety in December last year, in 
cooperation with the IAEA. One hundred and seventeen 
States  and  13  international  organizations  participated 
in  the  Conference  and  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
strengthening nuclear safety. Japan expresses gratitude 
to  the  Malaysian  Government  for  co-chairing  the 
Conference, member States for their participation, and 
the IAEA secretariat for its invaluable contribution to 
the  success  of  the  Conference.  It  goes  without  saying 
In  July,  the  IAEA  successfully  organized  the 
International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  the 
first-ever  ministerial-level  conference  on  this  issue 
at  the  IAEA.  Japan  would  once  again  like  to  express 
its great appreciation for the efforts made by Director 
General Amano and his staff. Japan continues to play a 
responsible role in strengthening nuclear security as a 
country utilizing nuclear energy.
In  order  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy,  it  is  essential  that  we  strengthen  safeguards 
while  ensuring  nuclear  safety  and  security.  Japan 
therefore advocates the universalization of the additional 
protocol in the context of strengthening safeguards. In 
that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the  fact  that  five  States 
concluded additional protocols in 2012 and is grateful 
for  the  work  of  the  IAEA  secretariat  in  this  regard. 
Japan, in cooperation with the IAEA and other member 
States, will continue to work on the universalization of 
the additional protocol.
The nuclear and missile development programmes 
of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
including its work on uranium enrichment, are serious 
violations of the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
A nuclear test by the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea is totally unacceptable, as it represents a grave 
challenge to the international non-proliferation regime 
centred  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, and seriously undermines the peace 
and  security  of  North-East  Asia  and  the  international 
community as a whole.
Furthermore, Japan is gravely concerned about the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s announcement 
in April revealing its intention to readjust and restart its 
Yongbyon  nuclear  facilities.  Japan  strongly  urges  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply fully 
with all its international obligations and commitments 
under Security Council resolutions and the 2005 Joint 
Statement  of  the  Six-Party  Talks,  and  to  completely 
abandon all its nuclear weapons and missile development 
programmes  in  a  verifiable  and  irreversible  manner. 
Japan supports the critical role that the IAEA continues 
to play in resolving the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea nuclear issue.
The Iranian nuclear issue is also a serious concern 
for  the  whole  international  community.  While  taking 
10/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
note  of  the  recent  positive  atmosphere  brought  about 
by  the  new  Iranian  Government,  Japan  urges  Iran  to 
comply  with  the  demands  of  the  relevant  resolutions 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors.  We  also  call  on  Iran  to  take  substantive 
action to resolve the issue peacefully. Japan notes that 
at the most recent meeting between the IAEA and Iran, 
on 28 and 29 October, there were positive developments 
that could be conducive to substantive progress towards 
resolving  Iran’s  nuclear  issue.  Japan  continues  to 
support  the  IAEA’s  efforts  in  that  regard.  We  expect 
to see meaningful negotiations between Iran, the E3+3 
and  the  IAEA,  hoping  that  the  negotiations  will  soon 
lead to concrete results.
Mr. Wensley (South Africa): South Africa wishes 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano  on  his  re-election 
as Director General of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA), and to thank him for introducing the 
2012  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Agency  (see 
A/68/PV.43).
Over  several  decades,  the  work  of  the  IAEA  has 
advanced  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  The 
IAEA’s interventions in an array of important sectors 
such  as  human  health,  water  and  agriculture  have 
sought  to  contribute  to  food  security  and  poverty 
reduction.  The  Agency’s  interventions  in  those  areas 
are unique, due to its specific nature, and South Africa 
greatly  values  the  development  and  application  of 
technologies  that  have  the  potential  to  profoundly 
influence  socioeconomic  development,  especially  in 
countries on the African continent. It can be expected 
that the Agency will continue to do more in those areas, 
given the growing number of its member States in the 
developing world. The Agency is also to be lauded for 
the partnerships it has established in that regard with 
other relevant agencies of the broader United Nations 
family. 
The Agency’s key goal is to accelerate and enlarge 
the contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and 
prosperity throughout the world. Member States of the 
IAEA  should  therefore  continue  to  work  together  to 
enhance  the  capacity  of  the  Agency  to  provide  more 
technical cooperation.
Events over the past few years have focused much 
attention  on  nuclear  power  generation.  A  number  of 
States  are  engaged  in  processes  to  increase  nuclear 
power’s share of their energy mix, a move necessitated 
by the imperatives of economic growth and security of 
supply, on the one hand, and by the need to reduce carbon 
footprints  and  preserve  dwindling  natural  resources, 
on  the  other.  The  Agency  has  provided  important 
support to newcomer countries as well as those that are 
expanding their nuclear power generation.
Another important pillar of the Agency is its work 
in verification. The IAEA has unquestionably proved to 
be an independent and impartial organization that fulfils 
the  task  of  safeguards  implementation  in  accordance 
with  established  agreements  with  individual  member 
States.  South  Africa  supports  the  Agency’s  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  safeguards  system  in  all  States  with 
safeguards  agreements  in  force  and  within  its  legal 
mandate.
In response to the Fukushima nuclear power plant 
accident two years ago, the IAEA took decisive steps 
to strengthen the global nuclear safety framework. The 
adoption  of  the  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  was  a 
milestone and an important display of the secretariat’s 
and  member  States’ 
taking 
responsibility for nuclear safety. While nuclear security 
remains the responsibility of each member State, South 
Africa  welcomes  the  progress  made  to  strengthen 
nuclear  security  at  the  international  level  through  the 
important work of the IAEA, which included its hosting 
of  the  first  ministerial-level  conference  on  nuclear 
security earlier this year.
commitments 
to 
In  conclusion,  South  Africa  remains  firm  in 
its  commitment 
to  nuclear  disarmament,  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy. We support the IAEA as the only internationally 
recognized competent authority responsible for verifying 
and  ensuring  compliance  with  safeguards  agreements 
of  States  parties,  concluded  in  compliance  with  their 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. South Africa stands ready to work 
with  all  member  States  to  strengthen  the  work  of  the 
Agency across all pillars of the IAEA’s work.
The Acting President: We have now heard the last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 88.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/68/L.10.  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  speaker 
in  explanation  of  vote  before  the  vote,  may  I  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  has  before  it  draft  resolution 
13-54995
11/13
A/68/PV.45 
06/11/2013
A/68/L.10,  on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  Regarding  the  draft  resolution,  the 
delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  once  again  considers  one  part  of  the  report  to 
be  completely  biased,  one-sided  and  without  any 
impartiality.  My  delegation  would  therefore  like  to 
point  to  two  factors  that  are  critical  to  understanding 
the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula.
First, the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (see A/68/324) has once again ignored the fact 
that  the  United  States  is  the  creator,  progenitor  and 
originator of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. 
It was the United States that brought nuclear weapons 
to  South  Korea  in  1957,  not  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. Again, it was the United States that 
increased the number of weapons deployed to more than 
1,000 in the 1970s; it was not the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea.
Secondly,  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency has once again ignored the fact that the 
United  States  is  the  perpetrator  of  nuclear  blackmail 
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and 
its people. Again, it was the United States conducting 
blackmail, as early as the 1950s, during the time of the 
Korean  War.  Accounts  of  that  time  claimed  that,  by 
order  of  Mr.  Truman,  who  was  President  at  the  time, 
the United States would turn the Korean peninsula into 
a radioactive corridor. By 1957, they were bringing in 
more  and  more  nuclear  weapons.  In  2002,  the  United 
States  officially  declared  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea part of the axis of evil, which meant 
that it was to be eliminated, and listed my country as a 
target for pre-emptive nuclear strike.
Earlier  this  year,  the  United  States,  jointly  with 
South Korea, listed the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  as  a  target  for  nuclear  deterrence.  Under 
this  policy,  the  United  States  continues  to  carry  out 
successive military excercises with South Korea. Every 
time  they  come,  they  bring  whatever  they  have  got, 
including a triad of nuclear weapons launchable by air, 
sea and land, B-52 bombers, the USS George Washington 
aircraft  carrier,  and  nuclear-powered  submarines.  All 
these vectors carry live nuclear weapons to threaten and 
blackmail the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and its people, sovereignty, dignity, security and safety. 
All  of  this  reveal  the  true  creator  and  perpetrator  of 
nuclear blackmail. The Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea is simply and purely a victim of such hostilities.
Unfortunately,  the  report  does  not  reflect  any 
of  those  facts.  Therefore,  if  the  IAEA  is  supposed  to 
intervene  to  settle  the  nuclear  dispute  in  the  Korean 
peninsula peacefully, it should consider our country and 
the Korean peninsula with neutrality and impartiality. 
As to a statement made yesterday, referring once again 
to  nuclear  tests  and  Security  Council  resolutions,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  made 
it  clear  time  and  time  again  that  those  nuclear  tests 
were conducted in response to the rampant and violent 
infringement  of  our  sovereignty  and  to  the  insult  to 
the dignity and national pride of our people, who had 
successfully launched a peaceful satellite in December 
2012.
Once again, we would like to make it clear that that 
was  a  legitimate  exercise  of  our  sovereign  power  and 
right under the Charter of the United Nations. It cannot 
be  considered  a  violation  of  the  Security  Council 
resolutions, which purely reflect the manipulations of 
the United States and its abuse of power. If our use of 
ballistic  missiles  to  launch  satellites  is  to  be  singled 
out  for  questioning,  the  United  States  is  the  country 
that  should  be  brought  before  and  sanctioned  by  the 
Security Council. Of all the space-faring countries, it 
is the number-one launcher and champion of satellites 
in outer space.
As  for  the  position  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  concerning  the  settlement  of  the 
nuclear issue, in view of all the aforementioned factors 
we would like to make it clear once again that, under 
the principle of action for action, the United States — as 
the  creator  and  producer  of  nuclear  weapon  and  the 
perpetrator  of  nuclea  blackmail  and  hostility  against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — should 
make  the  first  move.  If  the  United  States  moves,  we 
can  move,  but  so  long  as  it  does  not  move  we  are  in 
no position to move. As long as the nuclear blackmail 
and hostility continue, we have no other option but to 
continue strengthening our war deterrent — that is, our 
nuclear  weapon  capability.  We  disassociate  ourselves 
from the adoption of draft resolution A/68/L.10.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/68/L.10,  entitled 
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
to 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like 
12/13 
13-54995
06/11/2013 
A/68/PV.45
announce  that,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in document A/68/L.10 or previously mentioned during 
the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries have also become sponsors: Albania, Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Colombia, 
Costa Rica, Croatia, Egypt, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, 
Iceland,  Ireland,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Malaysia,  Papua 
New Guinea, Peru, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
San Marino, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and Ukraine.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/68/L.10?
Draft resolution A/68/L.10 was adopted (resolution 
68/10).
The  Acting  President:  One  representatives  has 
asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I remind 
him that statements in the exercise of the right of reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
to five minutes for the second intervention, and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): I am sorry to ask for the floor again. Regarding 
the statement made by the representative of Japan, the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to 
clarify its position.
The  representative  of  Japan  made  reference  to 
many issues concerning our country’s so-called nuclear 
activities. I believe that, as usual, he made reference to 
five major factors.
First,  he  referred  again  to  the  nuclear  test,  which 
raises  a  question.  Why  is  Japan  clamouring  against 
nuclear  testing  when  it  joined  the  United  States 
in  manipulating  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2087 (2013) against the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea’s  peaceful  satellite  launch?  The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  launch  was 
followed by a Japanese launch. The United States and 
the Security Council kept silent. Why are we still talking 
about nuclear tests launched by the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea?  There  is  no  moral  justification 
for  Japan  to  raise  the  issue  of  anybody  else’s  nuclear 
activity. It is Japan that should be questioned first.
the 
Secondly, 
representative  of  Japan  made 
reference  to  obligations  pursuant  to  that  Security 
Council  resolution.  Once  again, 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea would like to make it clear 
that it totally rejects that resolution, which was adopted 
illegally and manipulated by one so-called permanent 
member of the Security Council.
Thirdly,  he  made  the  reference  to  the  peace  and 
security  of  North-East  Asia.  He  gave  the  strong 
impression that Japan is a peace-loving country, but it 
is the opposite. It is becoming a nuclear Power under 
the nuclear umbrella of the United States. It has aligned 
its  entire  territory  as  a  launch  pad  for  attack  against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Under the 
bilateral  agreement,  Japan  is  supposed  to  open  all  its 
facilities for the military activities of the United States. 
Therefore, who is the perpetrator and offender of peace 
and security in the region? It is clearly Japan.
Fourthly,  he  again  made  reference  to  the  Six-
Party Talks. In the process of the Six-Party Talks, the 
Japanese  delegation  raised  the  abduction  issue,  which 
has nothing to do with the nuclear issue on the Korean 
peninsula. It invited the criticism of all the other five 
participants, but it has never honoured its commitments 
under the Six-Party Talks. Every one of the six parties 
has the commitment and obligation to fully honour it, 
but  Japan  was  the  only  country  that  has  never,  ever 
honoured its commitment. Therefore, again, Japan has 
no moral or legal authority or justification.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 88?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
13-54995
13/13
