United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
49th plenary meeting
Friday, 8 November 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.49
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda items 29 and 123 (continued)
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/68/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
Mr.  Mažeiks  (Latvia):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  for  his  initiative,  which  aims  to  regain 
momentum  in  Security  Council  reform.  We  welcome 
his decision to establish an advisory group on Security 
Council  reform,  and  we  express  the  hope  that  that 
body will provide useful guidance on the way forward. 
We  hope  that  his  personal  leadership  will  bring  the 
reform  process  forward.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, the Chair of intergovernmental 
negotiations,  and  express  our  readiness  to  cooperate 
with him on the continuation of those duties.
The  world  today  is  different  from  the  world  at 
the  time  of  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  number  of  the  Member  States  has  multiplied. 
The  number  of  conflicts  where  the  United  Nations 
should be involved remains big. The world has become 
more  interconnected  and  interdependent,  and  we  are 
increasingly  facing  global  challenges  that  affect  all 
countries and their citizens.
The United Nations is a unique platform in which 
to exchange information, advance our common agenda 
and provide a coordinated response to global challenges. 
The United Nations must live up to the demands of the 
twenty-first  century.  In  many  areas  it  has  shown  the 
capacity to develop in step with the requirements and 
realities of this new age. Yet the Security Council, which 
has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, has changed little in 
the past decades. Therefore, reform of the Council is of 
crucial importance.
Unfortunately,  discussion  of  Security  Council 
reform  has  continued  on  and  off  for  nearly  20  years 
without producing tangible results. At the 2005 World 
Summit, our leaders called for an early reform of the 
Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  broadly 
representative, efficient and transparent, thus enhancing 
its effectiveness and the legitimacy of its decisions. The 
time has come to put forward concrete proposals and to 
generate momentum and start real negotiations leading 
to the achievement of those goals.
Latvia  would  like  to  reiterate  its  position  that 
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  membership 
in  both  categories,  permanent  and  non-permanent, 
is  necessary  to  ensure  the  representativeness  of  the 
Council  and  an  equitable  geographic  distribution  of 
both permanent and non-permanent seats that reflects 
current  political  realities.  In  view  of  the  considerable 
enlargement of the membership of the Group of Eastern 
European  States  over  the  past  decades,  we  strongly 
believe  that  any  enlargement  of  the  Council  should 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-55534 (E)
*1355534*
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
include  one  new  non-permanent  seat  for  the  Eastern 
European Group.
However, we feel that in order to advance reform, 
we should go beyond merely reiterating our positions. 
The  work  of  the  advisory  group  on  Council  reform 
should feed into more detailed debate and into the stage 
of negotiations. At that stage, it would be necessary to 
look  for  the  parameters  of  a  possible  agreement.  For 
instance,  when  it  comes  to  the  size  of  the  Council’s 
membership,  what  would  be  the  numerical  maximum 
that would be acceptable to those countries that favour 
limited expansion of membership? What would be the 
numerical minimum acceptable to those countries that 
favour a greater expansion?
It  is  essential  to  achieve  agreement  on  those 
elements  of  reform  that  enjoy  the  broadest  possible 
support of Member States. For our part, we are ready to 
contribute constructively to that task.
Ms. Bolaños Pérez (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to thank the President for convening this 
debate. I will briefly cover both points on our agenda: 
the report of the Security Council in document A/68/2 
and  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters.
We take note of the report of the Security Council 
covering the period from August 2012 to July 2013 and 
thank the representative of China for introducing it (see 
A/68/PV.46). We believe it would be inappropriate for 
us to make further comments on the matter, since we 
were members of the Council during that period and in 
fact  held  the  presidency  during  the  month  of  October 
2012. I will limit myself to what we have pointed out 
every  year,  which  is  our  wish  that  the  report  would 
offer more analysis in relation to its factual content.
With respect to the issue of equitable representation 
on the Security Council and increase in its membership, 
I would like to say first of all that we have taken note 
of  the  President’s  letter  of  22  October  to  Member 
States, in which he reported his decision to reappoint 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as  Chair  of  the  negotiating 
process, as referred to in decision 67/561, as well as his 
decision to set up an advisory group composed of six 
permanent  representatives.  It  should  be  stressed  that 
the outcome of our negotiations belongs exclusively to 
the Member States in the Assembly.
After so many years with the long-desired reform 
of the Security Council at a virtual stalemate, we are 
confident that we will now be able to give a renewed 
impulse to negotiations that will adapt that body, which 
was  created  in  the  mid-twentieth  century  to  maintain 
international peace and security in the period after the 
Second World War, to the circumstances of the twenty-
first century.
We  all  understand  the  nature  and  depth  of  the 
themes that divide us, which doubtless revolve around a 
dividing line between those who espouse enlarging the 
Council in both membership categories and those who 
advocate  limiting  the  expansion  only  to  the  category 
of  elected  members.  Alongside  that  polemic  there  are 
assuredly additional differences in points of view with 
respect to the number of new members to propose, their 
distribution  among  the  different  regional  groups,  and 
their rights and obligations, including the obvious issue 
as to whether the provision granting the right of veto 
to the five permanent members should be extended to 
eventual new permanent members.
On  that  point,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
position, namely, that we support an expansion in the 
number of members in both categories. We think that 
this  expansion  can  be  up  to  five  permanent  members 
and  five  additional  elected  members.  Thus  we  would 
have  a  Council  with  10  permanent  members  and 
15  elected  members.We  would  not  insist  that  the  new 
permanent  members  have  all  the  prerogatives  of  the 
current  permanent  members,  although  we  would  not 
oppose this. At the same time, we would not insist that 
the  five  current  permanent  members  renounce  their 
privileges under the Charter of the United Nations.
That  said,  we  would  see  the  expansion  of  the 
Council  as  a  process,  subject  to  new  adjustments  and 
adaptations in a reasonable period in order to be able 
to continue to make changes to the governance of the 
United Nations system. In the same context, we think it 
would be appropriate to re-examine the limited mandate 
that the Charter entrusts to the Council, with a view to 
expanding its scope. We understand that this idea could 
seem heretical to many, because it raises the issue of the 
central role of the Council in maintaining international 
peace and security, so as to prevent its intruding on the 
mandates of the principal organs.
But  the  problem  we  perceive  is  that  the  dividing 
line  between  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
is 
not  clear.  It  would  be  appropriate,  then,  to  redefine 
the  roles  of  the  Security  Council,  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, the Economic and Social Council and the 
General  Assembly  to  see  how  to  distribute  the  tasks 
2/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
of  promoting  the  development  of  countries  emerging 
from  conflict  situations.  That  would  be  part  of  the 
general  proposition  that  sustainable  development  is 
the best antidote for preventing conflicts. In that same 
vein,  we  should  be  thinking  about  greater  coherence 
between the work of a reformed Security Council and 
the reformed forum that in the future will be in charge 
of the coordination work that at present is undertaken 
by the G20 in the economic and financial sphere.
In any case, we believe that reform of the United 
Nations system of governance cannot be postponed any 
longer, and that addressing Security Council reform is 
the central point for starting that task.
Mr. Angelov (Bulgaria): At the outset my delegation 
would like to join the others in thanking the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  meeting. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation 
to  the  Chinese  presidency  of  the  Security  Council 
for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/68/2)  (see  A/68/
PV.46), and to the United States Mission to the United 
Nations  for  preparing  the  introduction  of  the  draft 
report.  We  understand  the  difficulties  in  preparing  a 
concise  report  that  goes  beyond  just  enumerating  the 
Council’s  activities,  and  we  recognize  the  Council’s 
continuing efforts to draft an annual report that fulfils 
the expectations of the Member States.
to  achieve  comprehensive  Council 
Bulgaria  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  reinvigorate  the  process 
of Security Council reform. In that regard, we believe 
that  the  appointment  of  the  advisory  group  could 
generate  renewed  impetus  in  furthering  the  agreed 
goal 
reform. 
Taking into consideration the declared purpose of the 
advisory  group  —  to  produce  a  basis  for  the  start  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations — we believe that it 
will reflect ideas put forward in the negotiations so far, 
including those of particular interest for the countries 
of Eastern European Group.
We support the continuation of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  aimed  at 
achieving  a  broader,  more  representative,  efficient, 
legitimate and transparent Council in line with the 2005 
World Summit Outcome document (resolution 60/1).
We share the view that Security Council reform is 
long overdue and that maintaining the status quo should 
not be an option. It is our deep belief that the reforms 
should  be  aimed  at  turning  the  Security  Council  into 
a  more  representative  and  more  effective  body.  Its 
composition, size and working methods need to reflect 
today’s realities so that it can be perceived as relevant. 
Bulgaria  has  already  declared  its  support  for 
the  enlargement  of  the  Council  in  its  two  categories. 
Our  position  takes  into  account  the  abilities  and  the 
willingness  of  certain  countries  to  contribute  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. At the 
same time, Bulgaria believes that further expansion of 
the Council should involve an adequate and proportional 
representation of the current regional groups.
Bulgaria  continues  to  uphold  its  position  on  the 
need to allocate at least one additional non-permanent 
seat  in  an  enlarged  Council  to  the  Eastern  European 
Group,  given  that  in  the  last  two  decades  its  size  has 
more than doubled. It is our conviction that the enlarged 
membership  of  the  Council  should  contribute  to  its 
greater  representativeness,  while  the  improvement  of 
the  working  methods  has  to  bring  about  the  needed 
efficiency and transparency.
We welcome the letter of the President of the General 
Assembly of 22 October announcing the reappointment 
of Ambassador Tanin as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. Once again, we would like to pledge our 
support to his efforts in guiding the reform process.
Mr.  Šćepanović  (Montenegro):  At  the  outset 
my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  China  for  introducing  the  Security 
Council’s  annual  report  (A/68/2)  (see  A/68/PV.46), 
and  the  United  States  delegation  for  preparing  the 
document.  However,  I  will  limit  my  intervention  to 
agenda item 123, “Question of equitable representation 
on  and  increasing  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council and other related matters”.
I would like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly  for  his  earlier  engagement  and  efforts  to 
advance  the  Security  Council  process  during  the 
Assembly’s  sixty-eighth  session.  I  would  also  like 
to  congratulate 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin, on his reappointment 
as Chair of the intergovernmnetal negotiations.
Security Council reform is an ongoing process that 
should  neither  be  limited  in  time  nor  unnecessarily 
delayed. But time and again, after too many years and 
extensive  deliberations  involving  different  formats, 
we find ourselves again in familiar territory. It is very 
useful and practical for all of us that we got a detailed 
understanding  of  each  of  the  five  proposals  tabled.  I 
13-55534
3/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
would  say  that  there  are  really  no  more  unknowns  in 
regard to any of the proposals. On the contrary, we have 
come to learn and become very familiar with even the 
smallest particularities.
For  such  a  complex  process  that  the  Council 
reform  presents,  that  is  very  important.  But  we  have 
to be cognizant that there comes a point in time when 
one  has  to  ask  if  further  deliberations  on  this  patient 
would make any sense, because even though we call our 
process  intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  have  not 
engaged in real, substantive negotiations. What we have 
done so far is to repeat the same, or slightly modified, 
rhetoric that has brought us to this point, when we have 
to say that we have barely moved, in substantial terms, 
from the starting position.
It  is  against  that  backdrop,  and  in  the  context  of 
establishing  the  advisory  group,  that  Montenegro 
welcomes and supports all proposals and initiatives that 
are  action-oriented  and  aim  at  kick-starting  genuine 
negotiations.  What  is  needed  is  to  have  an  inclusive, 
transparent and balanced approach, one that will take 
on  board  the  interests  and  aspirations  of  the  general 
membership  to  the  extent  possible  —  not  only  of  the 
main  groups,  because  a  large  number  of  countries, 
like  mine,  do  not  belong  nor  are  associated  with  any 
particular group — in order to create the atmosphere and 
conditions conducive to commencing the long-awaited 
and  much  anticipated  real  negotiations.  Moreover,  we 
have  to  be  careful  to  follow  established  frameworks 
and mandates that have been clearly defined. Only in 
this way can we expect to take positive steps and count 
on  the  fruitful  collaboration  and  engagement  needed 
to move forward, instead of creating further divisions 
and separations that, by their very nature, are a heavy 
burden to the process.
It is obvious, urgent and important, for the sake of 
the Security Council, that we should not continue with 
business  as  usual.  It  is  up  to  us,  the  Member  States, 
together with Ambassador Tanin, to find a new, fresh 
approach  in  order  to  engage  in  a  more  constructive 
and  results-oriented  way  that  will  bring  us  closer 
to  the  desired  reform  with  the  broadest  acceptance 
with  respect  to  all  five  aspects  of  the  reform.  In  that 
context, it could be helpful to strive for common ground 
for  a  possible  compromise  solutions  and  common 
denominators  on  which  to  build  further.  One  such 
building block could be the African common position 
and the historical injustice done to that continent. In that 
context, and in line with our own interests, principled 
position  and  support,  Montenegro  reiterates  the  need 
to increase the representation of the Eastern European 
Group  in  the  non-permanent  category  of  membership 
in an enlarged Security Council so as to reflect the new 
reality represented by the more than twofold expansion 
of the Group’s membership.
We  constantly  have  to  remind  ourselves  that 
negotiating is process of give-and-take and that we all 
need  to  demonstrate  a  high  degree  of  flexibility  and 
pragmatism  in  order  to  create  an  atmosphere  of  trust 
and good faith that will allow us to take concrete steps 
towards accomplishing our end goal. Keeping the big 
picture  of  overall  reform  in  sight,  we  cannot  merely 
focus, as individuals or groups, on our own self-interest 
and aspirations; we have to take into account those of 
other people if we truly want to make a breakthrough. 
And  in  keeping  with  our  position,  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  that  we  remain  realistic  and  aware  of 
the  fact  that  some  of  the  existing  proposals  —  if  not 
individually  then  as  part  of  a  bigger  incorporated 
package — are definitely not feasible and could indeed 
turn  out  to  be  counterproductive  to  the  work  of  the 
Security Council.
We should not be under any illusion that reaching 
a package solution on Security Council reform will be 
an  extremely  difficult  and  rather  challenging  task.  I 
believe that every single Member State has a stake and 
wants  to  see  the  Security  Council  reformed  in  a  way 
that will allow it to be more transparent, representative 
and  better  suited  to  coping  with  global  security 
challenges  that  are  not  lacking  in  today’s  world.  Let 
us  leave  behind  old  practices  and  methods  that  have 
proven  to  be  insufficient  and  ineffective.  We  cannot 
win  by  exploiting  each  other’s  weaknesses.  Instead, 
we  have  to  be  innovative  and  explore  and  combine 
our strengths and advantages because a reformed and 
improved  Security  Council  is  above  all  our  common 
goal and a necessity. It is in that spirit that Montenegro 
reaffirms its strong political will and decided readiness 
to contribute towards the start of genuine negotiations 
and concrete actions to that end.
Mr.  Makharoblishvili  (Georgia):  While  we  all 
agree on the need for reform, the years that have passed 
since  2005  have  shown  the  difficulty  of  achieving  a 
convergence of Member States’ positions to overcome 
the  structural  shortcomings  of  the  Security  Council 
vis-à-vis  emerging  global  threats  and  challenges. 
Lengthy  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform 
urgently  need  to  materialize  into  action.  We  need  to 
4/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
accelerate  our  search  for  a  reform  package,  as  more 
delay  will  continue  to  put  the  Council  at  further  risk 
of  becoming  either  inadequate  or  far  too  tardy  in 
responding  to  existing  or  emerging  global  challenges 
and threats to peace.
its  political 
Georgia  is  of  the  opinion  that  only  by  reflecting 
current geopolitical realities can the Security Council 
enhance 
legitimacy  and  authority. 
Therefore, we support the aspiration of countries from 
the Group of Four, as well as the inclusion of developing 
countries, to be represented in both the permanent and 
non-permanent categories of membership in a reformed 
Security  Council.  We  also  encourage  the  inclusion  of 
smaller States in decision-making. We believe that the 
basic principle of international law — that is, sovereign 
equality between nations — should be more explicitly 
reflected  at  the  core  of  the  international  security 
architecture. That will indeed be a gateway to a more 
democratic  global  governance.  However,  equitable 
representation  should  not  be  an  end  in  and  of  itself. 
A meaningful reform should also imply reform of the 
working methods and decision-making principles of the 
Security Council.
Georgia  is  among  the  countries  that  have  been 
directly and painfully affected when all the efforts of 
some Security Council members to find a constructive 
solution through the Council have fallen by the wayside 
in the face of a structural deficiency that allowed one 
party to the conflict to preclude all meaningful measures 
from  being  taken  by  the  Council.  Those  deficiencies 
allowed  for  a  paradoxical  scenario  in  which,  instead 
of  an  increased  security  presence  in  the  aftermath  of 
a  full-blown  war,  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Observer Mission to Georgia was terminated, creating 
a vacuum in the international security presence. That, 
in  our  view,  raised  some  serious  questions  as  to  the 
appropriateness of using the right to veto in relation to 
the mandates of peacekeeping missions.
In closing, let me express our firm support for the 
President of the General Assembly in his undertaking to 
reinvigorate work on the reform of the Security Council 
as the most important element of United Nations reform. 
To that end, we would also like to commend the work 
of  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
Ambassador Tanin. Georgia, for its part, stands ready 
to contribute to the process.
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  Allow  me  to  start  by 
commending  the  dedication  and  commitment  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador John 
Ashe, to advancing the issue of Security Council reform. 
I would like to congratulate Ambassador Zahir Tanin 
on his reappointment as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. I also believe that this is the proper time 
and place to recognize the work and the report of the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2)  and  to  thank  the  current 
President,  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  for  introducing  that 
report (see A/68/PV.46).
Undoubtedly,  the  work  and  responsibilities  of  the 
Security  Council  are  enormous,  and  apparently  its 
workload  and  the  demands  on  it  are  increasing.  We 
all  have  no  doubt  that  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members  alike  dedicate  the  utmost  effort,  manpower 
and brainpower to addressing those complex challenges.
The United Nations is a unique Organization. Its real 
value lies in its universality, its inclusion of all nations. 
In  two  years  time,  we  shall  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  its  establishment.  Three  generations 
of  politicians  and  diplomats  have  contributed  to  the 
creation  of  a  better  world  that  is  more  stable,  secure, 
democratic  and  sustainable.  And 
the  world  has 
changed.  Some  issues  have  been  resolved,  some  still 
persist, and new ones have appeared. To address those 
new  challenges,  the  United  Nations  has  to  look  into 
the mirror of the twenty-first century and to study the 
reflection from different angles, points and distances. 
We must look in the mirror at twilight and at midnight.
Syria  should  serve  as  a  broken  mirror  offering  a 
distorted and refracted picture of reality. Two years of 
the  Security  Council’s  inability  to  take  a  meaningful 
decision  are  alarming  proof  of  the  urgent  need  to 
overcome our differences, set aside our disagreements 
and  look  for  innovative  and  creative  decisions.  There 
is no quick fix, but after 20 years of deliberations it is 
high time to assume the responsibility that our citizens 
have  entrusted  us  with.  It  is  time  to  craft  concrete, 
meaningful proposals and to deliver results.
Slovakia  is  fully  committed  to  working  with 
all  partners  to  continue  negotiations  on  the  issues  of 
modernizing the work, working methods, composition, 
communications  and  effectiveness  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  shall  work  and  deliberate  in  good  faith, 
with  mutual  respect  and  in  an  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent manner. We are obliged to seek a solution 
that can garner the widest possible consensus. For the 
sake of speeding up the discussion, let me just briefly 
recap  the  already  well-known  position  of  Slovakia.  I 
will just mention a few key issues and then make some 
suggestions for a way forward.
13-55534
5/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
First,  we  believe  in  the  necessity  of  adapting  the 
Council  to  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-
first  century.  States  capable  of  assuming  global 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security should become eligible to take seats 
as  new  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council. 
But  membership  is  not  about  privilege  —  it  is  much 
more  about 
the  responsibility,  commitments  and 
obligations that possible members are willing and ready 
to assume. If we wish to take a step forward, we should 
not concentrate only on numbers. We should listen to 
the substantial discussions of contenders on how they 
see their work and role in the Council in the future and, 
upon getting in, how they would improve the work they 
probably criticized when they were out.
Secondly, the equitable geographic distribution of 
seats  within  the  non-permanent  category  of  Security 
Council  membership  must  reflect  and  embrace  all 
regional  groups  —  including  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European  States  —  in  an  equal  and  proportional 
manner.
Thirdly, 
the 
is 
ideal  goal 
to  achieve  better 
representation, as well as greater efficiency. Thus, the 
enlargement  must  not  compromise  the  ability  of  the 
Security Council to function as defined in the Charter. 
We need a Security Council that is effective and does not 
shy away from taking difficult decisions — a Council 
that ensures prompt and effective action when needed. 
We believe that, in order to ensure that, the enlargement 
of Council should be moderate and balanced.
Fourthly,  Slovakia  does  not  favour  extending  the 
right of veto to new permanent members. At the same 
time,  due  consideration  should  be  given  to  the  scope 
and the manner that the veto is applied. Let me recall 
the relevant proposals made by the High-level Panel on 
Threats, Challenges and Change (see A/59/565) in the 
run-up to the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1).
That being said, it is now time to move away from 
simple  repetitions  of  our  positions  and  start  concrete 
negotiations on the basis of those proposals that have 
so  far  garnered  the  widest  support.  We  feel  that  the 
proposals  put  forward  by  the  Group  of  Four  and  the 
L.69 group enjoy such status. But the only vehicle that 
can  bring  us  to  success  is  called  compromise.  Let  us 
look again to some temporary, interim solutions, such 
as  semi-permanent  membership  with  defined  criteria 
and  rules,  or  let  us  give  appropriate  attention  to  new 
initiatives, such as the code of conduct for the voluntary 
limitation of the use of veto. Maybe some others ideas 
are on the way. To see the forest, we should take a step 
or two back from the trees.
For the sake of urgency and meaningful agreement 
in  the  light  of  the  aforementioned  ideas,  our  position 
is not carved in stone. Let me assure the President and 
all  partners  that  Slovakia  is  open  to  all  constructive 
proposals and considers them with a maximum degree 
of flexibility and open-mindedness with the main aim 
of reaching tangible results that will finally allow us to 
adapt the Security Council to the realities and needs of 
the twenty-first century.
Mr.  Khitchadeth 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like 
to  associate  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46).
to 
Please  allow  me  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  for  convening  this  meeting.  I  would  also 
like 
thank  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  for 
introducing the annual report of the Security Council 
(A/68/2) on behalf of the Security Council (see A/68/
PV.46).  At  the  same  time,  I  sincerely  congratulate 
Ambassador  Tanin  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.
Since  the  inception  of  the  Organization,  the 
functions  and  duties  of  the  United  Nations  have  been 
developed  and  expanded  on  a  large  scale.  Therefore, 
it  is  necessary  for  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council, to be adapted or reformed in order to 
be reliable in meeting the real demands of the current 
phase of the international affairs of the world.
The 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) 
indicated that in the new era it is necessary to reform the 
Security Council for the benefit of Member States as a 
whole. Since then, many Heads of State and Government 
have  continued  to  express  their  views  in  the  general 
debates  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  confirm  the 
need to reform the Security Council. Furthermore, the 
General  Assembly  has  also  considered  reform  of  the 
Security Council through the international negotiating 
process,  although  there  have  been  different  views  on 
reform in recent years. The process of reform is ongoing 
and  we  are  confident  that,  through  negotiations,  an 
agreement will be reached in the year to come.
6/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is  of  the 
view that, in order to make the Security Council more 
representative,  democratic,  effective, 
transparent, 
accessible  and  legitimate,  the  Council  needs  to  be 
reformed  in  an  appropriate  manner.  However,  the 
reform  should  be  conducted  on  the  basis  of  the 
proposals  submitted  by  Member  States  and  by  the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process,  which  will 
bring mutual benefit for all Member States.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  always 
supports the reform of the Security Council and endorses 
the proposal of the President of the General Assembly 
to  conduct  further  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  during  the  sixty-
eighth  session,  including  through  the  establishment 
of  an  advisory  group.  However,  we  understand  that 
the  advisory  group  does  not  have  a  negotiation  role; 
therefore,  it  aims  only  to  give  personal  advice  in 
conducting the intergovernmental negotiations.
In conclusion, my delegation would like to assure 
the President that the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
will  continue  to  support  his  work  towards  Security 
Council  reform,  and  we  reiterate  that  reform  should 
be  conducted  in  the  process  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, which will sum up the appropriate proposals 
and  ideas  of  the  entire  international  community  for 
Council reform. My delegation is confident that, with 
the President’s wisdom and experience, all the parties 
concerned will reach an agreement on Security Council 
reform and it will be successfully achieved in the year 
to come.
Mr. Graafenberg (Suriname): At the outset, I would 
like to align myself with the statements delivered by the 
Permanent Representative of Guyana on behalf of the 
Caribbean  Community,  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and 
the Permanent Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
on behalf of the L.69 group (see A/68/PV.46).
Suriname, together with the majority of the United 
Nations  membership,  supports  early  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  including  expansion  in  both  the 
permanent and non-permanent categories. It is critical 
to note that the time has come for the intergovernmental 
negotiating  process  to  finally  move  forward  on  the 
grounds of text-based talks, dialogues and interactions. 
My delegation therefore warmly welcomes the initiative 
and  commitment  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, Ambassador John 
Ashe, to assemble an advisory group to advise him and 
provide inputs to initiate and to advance the process of 
text-based talks in the intergovernmental negotiations.
While it is obvious that the reform of the Security 
Council  can  be  considered  a  work  in  progress,  that 
does not mean that the intergovernmental negotiations 
should  be  a  never-ending  process.  My  delegation 
therefore  strongly  believes  that  the  time  has  come  to 
move from rhetoric to action.
Finally,  we  also  welcome 
the  reappointment 
of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. I wish him success in 
steering this crucial process.
Ms.  Rivera  Sánchez  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Allow  me 
to  express  my  delegation’s 
satisfaction  for  the  initiative  of  President  Ashe  to 
convene  this  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
review the question of equitable representation on and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and related matters, as well as the question concerning 
Security Council reform.
the 
reappointment 
We 
also  welcome 
of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  are 
convinced  that,  given  his  diplomatic  skills  and  his 
lengthy experience and historical memory concerning 
this  matter,  he  is  in  a  special  position  to  continue 
leading the negotiations, which are extremely complex 
but  which  undoubtedly  are  increasingly  urgent  in  the 
light of the international reality, in which the need for 
a  new  international  consensus  related  to  peace  and 
security is increasingly prominent.
No  less  important  is  the  President’s  decision  to 
convene  an  advisory  group  of  ambassadors  with  a 
view  to  providing  suggestions  and  ideas  to  advance 
these  important  intergovernmental  negotiations.  As 
the President himself said, the advisory group has no 
the  power  whatsoever  to  take  positions  or  draw  up 
intergovernmental  negotiating  documents;  it  can  only 
suggest  possible  plans  of  action  for  the  Assembly’s 
consideration and subsequent action, which we greatly 
value.
El  Salvador’s  position  with  regard  to  Security 
Council  reform  is  widely  known,  and  we  have  had 
the  honour  of  taking  part  in  most  of  the  debates  on 
that  issue  over  time.  Therefore,  it  is  not  my  intention 
yet  again  to  outline  our  position  in  this  meeting; 
instead, I can sum it up in our decisive support for the 
13-55534
7/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
expansion  of  Security  Council  membership  in  both 
categories  —  permanent  and  non-permanent.  Our 
country  favours  the  aspirations  of  Brazil,  Germany, 
Japan  and  India  to  permanent  membership  of  the 
Security Council with the right to veto. We also agree 
that  it  is  important  to  have  regional  representation  in 
which  Africa  could  have  two  permanent  seats  in  the 
Security Council and Latin America and the Caribbean 
could have one.
We  agree  with  most  delegations  that  there  is  a 
need  to  reform  and  improve  the  working  methods  of 
the Security Council in order to foster its transparency 
and  democratization,  as  well  as  a  growing  and  more 
substantive  relationship  among  the  Security  Council, 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to  underscore 
that, through the implementation of peace operations, 
issues related to special political missions in the broader 
context of the implementation of the Security Council’s 
mandate on the maintenance of international peace and 
security have gradually led to a de facto change in the 
relationship  of  the  mandates  of  the  Security  Council 
and the General Assembly, given the evident needs of 
collective action.
Although  this  issue  is  being  discussed  for  the 
first  time  in  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee  (Fourth  Committee)  and  the  budget  is 
being  discussed  in  the  Administrative  and  Budgetary 
Committee  —  the  Fifth  Committee  —  the  crux  of 
the  matter,  in  our  opinion,  lies  in  the  need  to  resolve 
conflicts  in  different  parts  of  the  world  that  by  their 
nature must be approached in an unconventional way. 
It  is  precisely  that  issue  that  leads  us  to  think  about 
the urgent need to change the paradigm upon which we 
have been basing our discussions on Security Council 
reform. Following the same path will undoubtedly lead 
to the same outcome — a lack of agreement among the 
Member States with respect to Security Council reform.
For  El  Salvador,  changing  the  paradigm  means 
changing the logic of putting out fires, which currently 
defines  the  Security  Council’s  action.  That  could 
therefore  mean  acting  in  a  preventative  capacity.  Of 
course,  preventive  action  means,  among  other  things, 
acting  as  an  integrated  system,  especially  among  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and all their its subsidiary bodies. That can also apply 
to the Security Council reform that we are negotiating, 
because  it  has  to  do  with  a  more  democratic  and 
transparent way for the Security Council to function. It 
also means greater coordination and complementarity 
of  the  actions  of  other  bodies  fo  the  system  with 
prevention mandates.
Consequently, the role of the permanent five would 
be, first of all, to use all their political clout to review 
the resources allocated to the United Nations to promote 
the  development  of  peoples  before  taking  punitive 
decisions and using force to resolve differences. That 
change  of  paradigm  therefore  means  going  from  a 
competition for planetary resources through the use of 
force,  to  planetary  cooperation  wherein  the  7  billion 
human beings can benefit from the means of dignified 
living and the opportunity to shape our own destiny in 
peace and with respect and full cooperation. Believing 
that the future of humankind can be built on the basis 
of the current paradigm is not only unrealistic, but also 
wasteful  of  all  manner  of  resources  on  an  impossible 
task.
In conclusion, allow me to reiterate El Salvador’s 
commitment to building a new paradigm for Security 
Council  reform.  Our  own  history  shows  that  it  is 
possible.  It  is  not  an  easy  task  and  there  are  often 
setbacks,  but  it  is  the  only  way  to  move  in  the  right 
direction and to build a new, inclusive society for all.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, we would like to express our appreciation for the 
ongoing  efforts  of  Ambassador  John  Ashe  in  making 
the reform of the Security Council one of his priorities 
at  this  session.  We  are  also  grateful  for  Ambassador 
Tanin’s diligent work as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform.
We  thank  the  Chinese  delegation  for  introducing 
the annual report of the Council (A/68/2).
We  add  our  voice  to  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement and of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group (see A/68/PV.46).
We  have  taken  note  of  the  establishment  of  an 
advisory group on the topic of Security Council reform. 
The advisory group does not express the views of any 
negotiating  groups  or  States.  It  is  only  an  advisory 
group. 
Efforts to reform the Council have dragged on for 
two decades with little result. At this time, the majority 
of General Assembly members seek structural reform 
of the Security Council . It has been a source of sadness 
8/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
and  frustration  to  my  delegation  that  no  progress  has 
been  made  in  the  five  reform  categories  called  for  in 
decision  62/557  —  including  the  expansion  of  the 
two  categories  of  membership,  the  decision-making 
process,  and  the  abolition  of  the  right  of  veto  —  that 
would make the Council more transparent, democratic 
and  representative  of  the  193  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations.
As the Assembly will recall, the African continent 
has  54  States.  Its  representation  in  the  Security 
Council,  which  is  exclusively  non-permanent,  is  not 
commensurate  with  that  number  or  with  the  African 
matters being discussed in the Council, which represent 
more  than  70  per  cent  of  the  items  with  which  the 
Council  is  seized.  Consequently,  the  African  position 
must  be  taken  into  consideration  as  reflected  in  the 
Sirte Declaration of 1999 and the Ezulwini Consensus 
of  2005,  which  call  for  two  permanent  seats  with  the 
competencies  and  privileges  enjoyed  by  the  current 
permanent  members,  and  five  non-permanent  seats. 
The  African  position  represents  the  aspirations  of 
the  entire  continent.  It  is  characterized  by  flexibility 
in regard to the veto and calls for abolishing it in the 
future while asking for the right to exercise the veto as 
long as it stands.
My delegation supports the Arab position agreed at 
the 2010 African Union summit, held in Sirte, as well 
as the position of the Islamic Group represented in the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
Intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  constitute  the  only  forum  and 
machinery  adapted  to  negotiate  such  reform.  They 
should  not  be  replaced  by  any  other  forum  or  group. 
Reform  should  be  comprehensive  and  need  not  be 
confined to a specific time frame, and it should enjoy 
the support of the majority of United Nations Members.
Mr.  Alnaqshabandi  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like 
to  extend  my  thanks  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly for his explanation concerning the advisory 
group on Security Council reform, under agenda item 
123,  and  for  his  insistence  that  the  group  would  have 
an  exclusively  advisory  role  without  interference  in 
intergovernmental negotiations (see A/68/PV.46).
We welcome the reappointment of Ambassador Tanin as 
Chair of intergovernmental negotiations on the reform of 
the Council. We pledge our commitment and cooperation 
with all parties in bringing the mission of Council reform 
to fruition.
We emphasize the need to expand and reform the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of  Council 
membership  in  order  to  make  that  organ  more  up-
to-date  and  effective  in  maintaining  international 
peace and security, as enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  Arab  representation  should  be  part 
of  that  expansion,  given  the  regional,  geographic  and 
demographic weight of the Arab States.
Iraq.  We 
The  Security  Council  has  adopted  a  great  many 
resolutions  concening 
therefore  attach 
considerable  importance  to  negotiations  to  expand 
Council  membership  with  a  view  to  arriving  at  a 
common ground that Members States agree upon. Our 
support for expanding the membership of the Council is 
also a response to the increase in the number of States 
Members of the United Nations since the Council was 
established. 
The  Council  should  be  made  more  transparent, 
representative  and  balanced,  without  affecting  its 
competence  and  effectiveness.  Despite  the  fact  that 
in  past  years  we  have  witnessed  an  increase  in  the 
Council’s  open  meetings  and  greater  participation 
in the part of non-member States, we hope that when 
the Council’s consultations touch upon the interests of 
those non-member States, such practices will begin to 
include calling upon the particular State whose interests 
are at stake to attend the closed Council consultations 
relating to it.
We urge the Council to hold additional informational 
briefings for non-members. Such briefings, undertaken 
under Article 31 of the Charter of the United Nations, 
reflect  positively  on  the  Council’s  openness  and 
transparency in its work.
My  delegation  calls  for  restricting  the  use  of  the 
right  of  veto  to  the  greatest  extent  possible,  perhaps 
through  the  adoption  of  certain  measures  that  would 
make  it  difficult  to  exercise  that  right  except  in  line 
with  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  Moreover,  the  veto 
must  not  be  used  in  cases  of  genocide  or  breaches  of 
international humanitarian law.
Most of the conflicts that affect international peace 
and  security  are  regional  in  nature.  That  is  why  we 
believe in the important role of regional organizations 
in promoting the peaceful settlement of such conflicts. 
We  therefore  call  for  activating  Chapter  VIII  of 
13-55534
9/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
the  Charter,  without  prejudice  to  the  purview  and 
responsibilities of the Security Council, with a view to 
protecting and enhancing human rights.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  begin  by  expressing  our  appreciation 
to  the  President  for  convening  this  meeting  on  such 
an  important  issue.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, the Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the  sixty-eighth 
session.
While associating my delegation with the statement 
of the Non-Aligned Movement delivered yesterday by 
the Ambassador of Egypt (see A/68/PV.46), allow me 
to further explain our position on the issue, which is of 
great importance to my Government.
My  delegation  has  on  many  occasions  expressed 
its  view  on  the  different  aspects  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Therefore,  I  will  avoid  going  into 
detail at this meeting. I would just recall briefly that it 
is an established fact that, as a result of the evolution of 
the international situation and the constant rise of new 
opportunities for and new challenges to the international 
community,  a  drastic  revamping  of  the  Council  is 
required.  Such  a  foregone  conclusion  is  based  on 
experience and on the reality that the Security Council, 
with  its  current  working  methods  and  composition, 
which  are  long-outdated,  cannot  succeed  in  its  very 
important  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security. Fortunately, this is a point on which 
there is overall agreement among Member States, and 
we almost all agree that a comprehensive reform of the 
Council corresponding to the needs and requirements 
of the day is long overdue.
The  size  and  composition  of  the  Council,  like 
its  working  methods,  are  among  the  most  important 
aspects  of  Security  Council  reform.  The  current 
composition  of  the  Council  is  neither  regionally 
balanced  nor  geopolitically  reflective  of 
today’s 
realities.  Therefore,  the  Council  is  not  representing 
the realities of the international community. Moreover, 
we  believe  that  the  failure  to  change  the  Council’s 
composition  and  to  adequately  improve  its  working 
methods  and  decision-making  processes  lies  at  the 
root  of  a  noticeable  decline  in  international  public 
trust in that important body. As a result, the image and 
credibility of the Council have suffered in the eyes of 
the general membership.
In  our  view,  focusing  on  turning  the  Security 
Council  into  an  accountable  international  body  that 
is  responsive  to  the  general  membership  and  public 
opinion should be the overarching goal, and we should 
redirect all of our efforts to that end. That is the only 
way to redress the damage and enhance the credibility 
of  the  Council.  To  that  end,  there  is  a  pressing  need 
to  strive  towards  strengthening  the  representative 
and  democratic  foundation  of  the  Council.  We  shall 
attain  that  objective  only  if  we  continue  to  stick  to  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council,  encompassing 
all 
the  categories  of 
membership,  the  veto,  size  and  working  methods, 
regional  representation,  and  the  relationship  between 
the Security Council and the General Assembly.
interrelated  clusters: 
five 
Given the importance of that process, I appreciate 
the attention and leadership of Ambassador Ashe with 
regard  to  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Since 
the  beginning  of  his  tenure,  he  has  demonstrated  his 
interest in moving Council reform forward. In his letter 
of  22  October,  he  conveyed  his  intention  to  continue 
with  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the 
sixty-eighth session, which is a welcome development. 
We  believe  that  the  efforts  made  over  the  past  six 
years  within  the  framework  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations are worthy of praise in the context of the 
long road towards reform of the Council. My delegation 
welcomes  the  continued  efforts  in  that  regard  and 
is  willing  to  participate  in  the  process,  based  on  text 
and focused on achieving results. Let me reiterate that 
Council  reform  should  be  firmly  membership-driven 
and advance on a fully comprehensive and transparent 
basis. Therefore, we look to the negotiations as the only 
forum for reaching an agreement on that issue.
On the report of the Security Council to the General 
Assembly  (A/68/2),  I  would  refer  only  to  the  chronic 
problem  of  an  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council 
on the work of the other main organs, particularly the 
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and even 
some technical bodies, such as the International Atomic 
Energy Agency, under the pretext of security. There is 
also an alarming trend in which the Security Council 
has been increasingly involved in lawmaking and norm-
setting  practices.  The  unnecessary  and  hasty  resort 
to  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
and the threat or use of sanctions in cases in which no 
actions  have  even  been  necessary,  are  other  issues  of 
concern to the general membership that have hurt the 
credibility  and  legitimacy  of  the  Council’s  decisions. 
Those disturbing trends, which run counter to the letter 
10/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
and  the  spirit  of  the  Charter  should  be  checked  and 
abandoned.
Mr.  Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  following  countries:  the 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji,  Kiribati,  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own 
country, Papua New Guinea.
We  note  that  the  President,  in  his  statements 
accepting his election to his post by acclamation (see 
A/67/PV.87)  and  at  the  opening  of  the  general  debate 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session (see 
A/68/PV.5),  clearly  expressed  that  part  of  his  agenda 
would  also  include  addressing  the  ongoing  issues 
pertaining to the reform of the principle organs of the 
United  Nations,  including  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  Already,  a  number  of  measures  are  under 
way to reform the Council. What is now needed is the 
re-energizing of the process. In that regard, we count 
on  the  President’s  leadership  and  we  reiterate  our 
unequivocal support for him.
We commend the appointment of Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin to again chair the intergovernmental negotiating 
process. Like many other delegations and as in previous 
sessions,  we  again  convey  our  collective  support  and 
gratitude  to  him  for  the  sterling  work  he  has  done, 
Indeed, we look forward to his continued leadership.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  remains  an 
important  issue  on  the  United  Nation’s  agenda.  It  is 
rooted in the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1)  and  further  elaborated  in  decision  62/557.  If 
the  intergovernmental  negotiating  process  is  to  be 
effective, there have to be real and genuine negotiations 
on  all  the  relevant  issues,  and  more  specifically  on 
the  five  issues  covered  in  decision  62/557,  namely, 
the  categories  of  membership,  the  veto,  regional 
representation, enlargement and working methods, and 
the relationship between the General Assembly and the 
Security Council.
What  is  quite  interesting  is  that  the  fifth  issue  in 
decision 62/557 — the relationship between the General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  —  is  already 
operational,  given  that  this  debate  has  included  the 
introduction  and  discussion  of  the  Security  Council’s 
annual  report  (A/68/2),  introduced  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  China  on  behalf  of  the  Chinese 
presidency  of  the  Council  for  this  month  (see  A/68/
PV.46).  We  can  also  say  that  the  Council’s  working 
methods, which are part of the fourth item of decision 
62/557,  are  already  a  part  of  our  debate  on  Security 
Council  reform.  In  that  regard,  I  would  also  refer  to 
the  Council’s  open  debate  under  the  presidency  of 
Azerbaijan in October (see S/PV.7052). Indeed, in both 
cases, we can all agree that more can be done to address 
gaps  and  shortcomings.  In  fact,  some  of  those  have 
already been pointed out.
The Pacific small island developing States (SIDS) 
believe that there has to be reform in both categories of 
membership in the Council, but any reform, including 
all  the  components  of  decision  62/557,  must  garner 
the  widest  possible  support  from  the  entire  United 
Nations  membership.  However,  the  negotiations  must 
commence forthwith and be guided by decision 62/557. 
All  the  issues  covered  in  the  decision  should  be  in  a 
document, along with all the viable options mentioned 
so far. Those options should then be subjected to a series 
of robust and genuine negotiations in that process. We 
must avoid another series of discussions, to which we 
have all become accustomed.
In  her  recent  statement  to  the  Security  Council 
during  the  open  debate  on  working  methods,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Singapore  made  the 
salient point that
“[t]he  reality  is  that  small  island  States  are 
unlikely  to  obtain  a  permanent  seat  in  whatever 
new  configuration  might  emerge  from  an  overall 
reform  of  the  Council  in  the  future”  (S/PV.7052 
(Resumption 1), p. 15).
It is probably equally true to reiterate that many other 
States may not even have the capacity to serve under any 
configuration of the Council. However, that should not 
preclude the possibility that some of the small States may 
indeed have the capacity to serve. Many of the Pacific 
small island developing States currently serve in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  around  the  world. 
While  Fiji  provides  the  largest  numbers,  some  of  our 
smallest members, such as Palau, are also participants 
in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Thus, the 
Pacific SIDS continue to fulfil their obligations under 
the Charter of the United Nations.
We  believe  that  aspects  of  the  third  key  issue  of 
decision  62/557,  relating  to  regional  representation, 
present  an  alternative  option  where  small  and  very 
small  States  might  be  better  catered  to  in  terms  of 
membership on a rotating basis within United Nations 
regional groups. We see this issue currently emerging 
13-55534
11/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
in  various  regional  groups,  but  on  an  ad  hoc  basis. 
Above  all  else,  the  principal  reason  for  the  Pacific 
SIDS to remain in this debate is that, like all the United 
Nations reform issues we have all committed to, it is a 
fundamental issue of governance.
We  should  be  collectively  proud  that  the  reform 
process  initiated  as  a  result  of  the  World  Summit  in 
2005  has  seen  the  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  UN-Women  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council, replacing the Commission on Human Rights. 
While we recognize that reform of the United Nations 
Secretariat  is  still  ongoing  and  much  more  could  be 
done, the fact is that it is proceeding. The outstanding 
issue is reform of the Security Council.
While  the  current  Security  Council  structure  has 
served the global community reasonably well to date, 
the  new  geopolitical  realities,  along  with  the  new 
and  emerging  security  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century  —  including  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate 
change  and  its  security  implications  —  demand 
broader  participation  on  the  part  of  Member  States 
in  the  Council’s  membership  and  deliberations.  We 
acknowledge  the  commitments  supporting  the  reform 
process, stated in the past and again during this debate 
by  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council. 
However, it is a fact that neither they nor the President’s 
advisory group can reform the Council, because it is the 
full  United  Nations  membership  that  must  effect  that 
reform. Therein lies the challenge for us all.
Mr.  Al-Mouallimi  (Saudi  Arabia):  I  would  like 
to extend my thanks and appreciation to the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session, 
Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  convening  this  joint  debate  on 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2)  and  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters. I would also like to thank the current President 
of  the  Security  Council,  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi  of 
China, for introducing the Council’s annual report (see 
A/68/PV.46).
We attach particular importance to today’s debate. 
Member States have made great efforts to expedite the 
reform process. However, no tangible progress has been 
achieved so far. The world today is not the world of the 
mid-twentieth century. The power structure of the past 
is no longer consistent with the realities of the present. 
We  are  asking  for  fair  representation  in  the  Council, 
so  that  it  does  not  merely  reflect  an  old  world  order 
that  does  not  exist  anymore.  It  should  be  replaced  on 
a  basis  of  equitable  representation,  suitable  for  this 
twenty-first-century world, so that the most important 
decisions  on  international  peace  and  security,  which 
inevitably affect all of us, can be adopted by appropriate 
and  forceful  majorities  truly  representative  of  the 
community of nations. 
The interest of the entire international community 
in  the  matter  under  consideration  is  obvious.  Today’s 
debate  on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and  related  matters  presents  an  excellent  opportunity 
to  identify  possible  shortcomings  in  areas  requiring 
improvement and adjustments.
The  Security  Council  has  failed  to  address  the 
situation in the Palestinian and Arab occupied territories, 
an issue that has been under its consideration for more 
than six decades. That failure to safeguard international 
peace and security and achieve fair restitution for those 
who  deserve  it  has  encouraged  Israel  to  persist  in 
escalating its violations of international law, breaching 
the  Palestinian  people’s  rights  and  continuing  its 
ongoing quest to change the situation on the ground.
Furthermore,  the  Syrian  crisis  continues,  with 
a  regime  bent  on  suppressing  the  will  of  its  people 
through brute force, killing and displacing millions of 
people  under  the  watch  and  in  the  sight  of  a  Council 
paralysed by abuse of the veto system. The aspirations 
of  the  Syrian  people,  the  will  of  the  international 
community, represented by the General Assembly and 
its  adopted  resolutions,  and  the  unanimous  views  of 
members of regional organizations have been ignored 
and not properly acted on by the Security Council. All 
of that reaffirms the danger manifest in delays in taking 
appropriate, timely decisions aimed at achieving peace 
in our region and the world.
That  is  why  Saudi  Arabia  calls  for  profound 
and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
increasing its membership and abandoning or restricting 
the use of the veto system, in order to enable the Council 
to fulfil its obligations concerning the preservation of 
peace and security in the world. We emphasize the need 
for comprehensive reform based on universality, equity 
and  regional  balance,  and  addressing  all  substantive 
issues  related  to  the  questions,  among  others,  of 
membership,  regional  representation,  the  Council’s 
agenda, and its working methods and decision-making 
process.
12/14 
13-55534
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.49
We support an expanded membership of the Council 
that  includes  permanent  seats  for  the  Arab  States, 
African States and other underrepresented groups. The 
issue of reform should be addressed in a comprehensive, 
transparent  and  balanced  manner,  and  the  process 
should  reflect  the  views  of  all  Member  States.  The 
current process, which has continued for several years, 
is clearly not going anywhere. While we appreciate the 
efforts of Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan in leading 
and  coordinating  the  review  process,  we  believe  that 
new vigour must be injected into it in order to enable us 
to reach prompt and reasonable conclusions.
Saudi  Arabia  believes  that  merging  positions  and 
proposals  on  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Council 
should  be  done  after  consulting  with  the  State  or 
group  of  States  concerned  and  with  their  approval. 
That  would  encompass  the  African  common  position 
on rectifying the historical injustice of the continent’s 
lack  of  representation  on  the  Council,  as  well  as  the 
Arab position, which requests a permanent seat for the 
Arab Group in any future expansion of the permanent 
membership  category.  There  is  a  clear  need  for  an 
enhanced and stronger presence of the Arab and Islamic 
world on the Security Council.
The  Council’s  annual 
includes  some 
very  important  issues.  We  welcome  the  opportunity 
afforded  Member  States  to  examine  it  in  depth  before 
commenting on it. We welcome the decision to have a 
separate meeting on the topic this year, giving Member 
States  more  time  to  analyse  the  report’s  contents  and 
thus enhancing the quality of discussion. Saudi Arabia 
strongly  believes  that  transparency  and  inclusiveness 
are  fundamental  to  improving  the  Council’s  working 
methods. Advancing those principles will enhance the 
Council’s  accountability  to  the  general  membership; 
improving  its  working  methods  will  also  enhance  its 
efficiency.
report 
We recognize that the Council has taken significant 
steps over the years both to improve the effectiveness of 
its work and to open itself to non-member States. But in 
the interests of its overall efficiency and effectiveness, 
the  Council  should  devote  more  time  and  effort  to 
the core issues of international peace and security, in 
accordance with its primary responsibility, and refrain 
from encroaching on the mandates of other bodies. 
Saudi Arabia reiterates the appeal to the permament 
members  to  refrain  from  exercising  the  right  of  veto 
in  situations  of  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes, 
genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing,  since  doing  so  prevents 
the  Council  from  effectively  defending  fundamental 
values and principles of humankind.
Saudi  Arabia  calls  for  the  strengthening  of  the 
partnerships  between 
the  Council  with  regional 
and  subregional  organizations,  including  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and 
the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation.  We  believe 
that  more  frequent  interactions  between  the  Council 
and regional organizations can play an important role in 
solving critical crises affecting the respective regions. 
We  respect  the  decision  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  form  an  advisory  group.  We 
understand that the purpose of the group is to serve as 
an informal group to advise the President on the reform 
process. However, we would like to express our concern 
that the advisory group does not have any representation 
from any member of the League of Arab States or the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation, which constitute 
11  per  cent  and  30  per  cent,  respectively,  of  the  total 
United Nations membership. We further want to ensure 
that the advisory group is not intended as a replacement 
for the intergovernmental negotiations in any respect.
In conclusion, I urge all members to take all possible 
initiatives to expedite the comprehensive reform process, 
which would hopefully result in resolving current crises 
and in maintaining peace and security in the world.
Mr.  Del  Campo  (Chile)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Chile  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the  representative  of  Switzerland  on  behalf  of  the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group(see 
A/68/PV.46),  of  which  Chile  is  a  member.  Likewise, 
Chile also wishes to reiterate its constructive spirit in 
that intergovernmental process and hopes that we will 
be  able  to  reach  an  early  consensus  with  respect  to 
Security Council reform.
the  one  hand,  and  expanding 
Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council,  on 
its 
composition, on the other, would not only improve the 
effectiveness  of  that  organ  but  would  also  ensure  its 
principal legitimacy. In that regard, Chile is open to the 
various initiatives of Member States and of the bodies 
under  the  General  Assembly  seeking  to  give  impetus 
to  the  intergovernmental  process,  which  is  the  only 
channel available to the General Assembly for Security 
Council reform.
That  is  why  we  express  our  confidence  in  the 
recent initiatives taken by the Presidemt of the General 
Assembly,  Ambassador  Ashe.  The  advisory  group 
13-55534
13/14
A/68/PV.49 
08/11/2013
could always provide innovative ideas that could help 
to establish the conditions to give that exercise political 
momentum.  My  delegation  is  ready  to  make  specific 
proposals  in  order  to  address  that  challenge,  which 
affects the functioning and overall effectiveness of the 
system. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker for this meeting in the debate on 
agenda items 29 and 123.
I now call on the representative of Morocco, who 
wishes to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would 
remind  representatives  that  statements  in  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second statement and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  wishes  to  exercise  its  right  of  reply  in 
response  to  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of  Algeria  (see  A/68/PV.47).  The  representative  of 
Algeria,  whose  country  continues  to  claim  that  it  is 
not  party  to  the  conflict,  finds  a  way  to  mention  the 
situation  concerning  Moroccan  Sahara  even  during 
the  considation  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
and the reform of that important principal organ of the 
United Nations.
The  members  of  the  General  Assembly  now  have 
proof, if any were needed, that Algeria is the main actor 
and even the driver in the conflict over the Moroccan 
Sahara. The representative of Algeria, who seems not 
to  have  read  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  said 
that that document did not reflect the state of informal 
consultations  and  cited  the  case  of  the  Moroccan 
Sahara.  I  would  enlighten  him  and  refer  him  to  page 
38  of  the  report,  where,  reflecting  the  consultations 
of  30  October,  it  is  stated,  among  other  things,  that 
the  Special  Representative  had  said  that  the  situation 
in  the  Western  Sahara  during  the  reporting  period 
had remained stable and that the ability of the United 
Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara 
(MINURSO) to report on the situation had improved. 
The  also  said  that  Security  Council  members 
expressed  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  Morocco  to 
improve the living conditions of the Western Saharan 
people and expressed unqualified support for MINURSO 
and the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General. Most 
Council members affirmed that a mutually acceptable 
political  solution  was  the  only  lasting  solution  to  the 
conflict. All delegations noted the reforms undertaken 
by  Morocco  in  the  field  of  human  rights,  notably  the 
establishment of the National Human Rights Council, 
including  its  commissions  in  Laayoune  and  Dakhla, 
and its cooperation with the special procedures of the 
Human Rights Council.
We  also  note  a  falsehood  in  Algeria’s  statement 
in referring to a draft Security Council resolution that 
proposed expanding MINURSO’s mandate. That exists 
only  in  Algeria’s  imagination.  No  draft  resolution 
submitted  for  the  consideration  of  Council  members 
mentioned such an expansion.
Furthermore,  the  representative  of  Algeria  spoke 
of  the  Frente  Polisario  representative  being  excluded 
from  speaking  at  the  stakeout.  I  wish  to  remind  him 
that that platform is reserved for States Members of the 
United Nations. Imagine the position we would be in if 
it were open to anyone. The United Nations has its rules 
and  practices.  However,  not  everyone  seems  willing 
to  respect  that  discipline.  The  Algerian  proposal  is 
groundless and unreasonable.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda items 29 and 123.
Programme of work
The Acting President (spoke in French): I should 
like to consult members on the convening of a meeting 
on Thursday, 21 November, in order to give interested 
delegations  that  wish  to  do  so  the  opportunity  to 
continue  deliberations  on  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides 
to  convene  a  plenary  meeting  on  agenda  item  29  on 
Thursday, 21 November?
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m.
14/14 
13-55534
