United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
46th plenary meeting
Thursday, 7 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.46
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Second report of the General Committee  
(A/68/250/Add.1)
The  President:  In  paragraph  (a)  of  its  report 
(A/68/250/Add.1),  the  General  Committee  decided 
to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that  an 
additional  item  entitled  “United  Nations  University” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading A, “Promotion of sustained economic growth 
and  sustainable  development  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and recent 
United Nations conferences”.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
include  this  item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session 
under heading A?
It was so decided.
The President: In paragraph (b) of the same report, 
the General Committee further recommended that the 
item be allocated to the Second Committee.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
allocate this item to the Second Committee?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
that  the  item  entitled  “United  Nations  University” 
becomes item 174 on the agenda of the current session.
The  Chair  of  the  Second  Committee  will  be 
informed  of  the  decision  just  taken  by  the  General 
Assembly.
Agenda item 113
Notification by the Secretary-General under 
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the 
United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/300)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph 
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  with  the 
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General 
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters 
relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security that are being dealt with by the Security 
Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the  Council  has 
ceased to deal.
In  that  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has 
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as 
document A/68/300.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of this 
document?
It was so decided.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-55224 (E)
*1355224*
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 113?
It was so decided.
Agenda items 29 and 123
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/68/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
The  President:  Today,  we  are  here  to  discuss 
an  issue  that  is  important  to  each  and  every  Member 
State, namely, the question of Security Council reform. 
Knowing  well  the  interests  and  concerns  that  we  all 
share in the singular goal of making progress on that 
important question, I am pleased to welcome you to this 
debate.
Many will recall that, on my election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  emphasized  the  need  to 
reinvigorate  and  advance  the  question  of  Security 
Council  reform  and  stressed  that  I  would  make  it  a 
priority.  While  that  commitment  remains  solid,  the 
extent of the challenge is not lost on me. My team and 
I have been increasingly committed to identifying how 
to  give  new  life  to  the  established  intergovernmental 
negotiating  process  on  the  question.  To  that  end,  we 
held  consultations  with  virtually  every  interest  group 
on the issue to ascertain the thoughts of Member States 
and, more important, their expectations. Based on the 
feedback  that  I  received,  I  created  an  advisory  group 
to assist me in identifying ways by which the process 
could move forward.
As  stated  in  my  letter  of  22  October  to  Member 
States,  the  advisory  group  comprises  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Belgium,  Brazil,  Liechtenstein, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  San  Marino  and  Sierra  Leone.  I 
would like to clarify that its membership was not chosen 
on  the  basis  of  geographical  representation.  Rather, 
there were three primary areas of consideration, namely, 
the  size  of  the  group,  representation  of  the  various 
interests  in  the  debate,  and  the  fact  that  its  members, 
ever  mindful  of  their  individual  or  group  positions, 
would seek to look past interests and provide me with 
advice on how to move the discussions forward.
What is important to note is that the advisory group 
is not — and I cannot stress that enough — and cannot 
be  a  formal  part  of  the  established  intergovernmental 
process. Similarly, the group does not have a negotiating 
mandate.  That  mandate  belongs  to  Member  States  in 
the  format  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
Reform.
Equally  important,  the  advisory  group  does  not 
have  a  mandate  to  draft  a  resolution,  declaration  or 
document of any kind. Rather, drawing upon decision 
62/557,  the  discussions  that  have  taken  place  in  the 
intergovernmental  framework  and 
the  content  of 
this  debate,  the  advisory  group  has  been  tasked  with 
providing  ideas  to  me  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to help start the negotiations that will begin 
on  or  about  15  November,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
appointed Chair, Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan. It 
will be my prerogative whether or not to accept the ideas 
of my advisory group. I hope that the deliberations here 
today will provide it with food for thought.
In my time at the United Nations, I have presided 
over  a  fair  number  of  negotiating  processes.  None  of 
them can be described as easy and some were extremely 
difficult, but they have all taught me valuable lessons. 
One of those is that when representatives come to the 
table  in  a  true  negotiating  spirit,  prepared  to  make 
the  necessary  compromises  to  create  an  acceptable 
outcome,  negotiations  are  almost  always  successful. 
Equally true is the fact that where there is no willingness 
to compromise, negotiations invariably end in failure. I 
therefore  urge  you  not  to  let  that  be  the  case  on  this 
very  important  item,  perhaps  the  most  important  on 
this Assembly’s agenda.
Our  United  Nations  is  and  must  remain  a  place 
where  we  collectively  reach  compromise,  a  place 
of  accommodation.  The  essence  of  the  process  of 
negotiations  is  compromise.  Each  and  every  side  on 
that question must make concessions if we are to find 
an acceptable common ground.
At the start of the general debate, I promised that 
whenever  and  wherever  true  leadership  was  required 
and whenever deadlocks must be broken and processes 
advanced,  I  would  do  my  utmost  to  be  resolute, 
fair,  even-handed  and  unequivocal.  The  question  of 
Security  Council  reform  demands  that  I  remain  true 
to that promise. Today, I wish to assure members that 
I  will.  However,  I  am  sure  that  all  understand  that, 
2/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
in  the  final  analysis,  the  success  or  otherwise  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations will ultimately depend 
on Member States. The negotiations are their process, 
and  their  success  depends  entirely  on  how  members 
choose  to  carry  them  forward.  Whenever  I  am  called 
upon to assist members I am fully prepared to do so.
Ultimately,  we  are  all  stakeholders  in  the  success 
of the process. I would therefore like to think that after 
the statements have been delivered in this debate, and 
when the time for hard negotiations comes, each of you 
will be willing to show openness and flexibility. That 
is absolutely critical if we are to make progress in the 
negotiations,  and  it  is  my  challenge  to  you  now:  stay 
focused  on  the  long-term  goal  and  be  flexible  in  the 
process.
I now give the floor to the President of the Security 
Council to introduce the report of the Council.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China),  President  of  the  Security 
Council  (spoke  in  Chinese):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of all the members 
of the Security Council, on your election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  thank  you  for  arranging 
today’s meeting.
As  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
month  of  November,  it  is  my  honour  to  introduce  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  contained  in 
document  A/68/2.  The  report  covers  the  period  from 
1 August 2012 through 31 July 2013.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  entrusts  the 
Security  Council  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Over  the  past  year,  with  the  support  of  the  whole 
United Nations membership, the Security Council has 
sought to actively discharge its responsibilities, urging 
the peaceful resolution of conflicts and undertaking a 
series of peacekeeping and peacebuilding activities all 
over the world. It has responded to a variety of security 
threats, leading to some positive results and playing a 
central  role  in  efforts  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security.
Addressing hot-spot issues on the African continent 
has long been a focus of the Council’s work. More than 
60  per  cent  of  the  Council’s  agenda  items  are  related 
to Africa, and half of the United Nations peacekeeping 
operations  are  deployed  on  that  continent.  The  peace 
and security of Africa are inseparable from those of the 
whole world.
Over the past year, the Council, in close cooperation 
with  such  regional  and  subregional  organizations  as 
the  African  Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States,  has  worked  for  a  settlement  to 
the conflict in Mali through active mediation and has 
promoted  the  restoration  of  constitutional  order  and 
national stability in that country by taking swift actions 
to  authorize  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Mali.
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the 
Council strengthened the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
and  endorsed  the  Peace,  Security  and  Cooperation 
Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  the  region.  In  Somalia,  the  Council  established 
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Somalia  to 
support  the  Somali  Government’s  efforts  for  security 
and  reconciliation  as  well  as  to  enhance  coordination 
among  various  United  Nations  agencies  in  Somalia. 
The Council followed closely the situation in the Sudan 
and South Sudan, supported the efforts of the African 
Union  and  subregional  organizations  to  stabilize  the 
Central African Republic, and undertook peacebuilding 
operations  in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-
Bissau, thus playing an important role in maintaining 
peace and stability in Africa.
The  Council  also  made  great  efforts  to  promote 
peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East.  Over  the  past 
year,  the  Council  held  monthly  discussions  on  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  issue  and  supported  the  efforts 
of  the  parties  involved  to  promote  the  resumption  of 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations and advance the Middle 
East  peace  process.  The  Council  remained  focused 
on  the  situation  in  Syria,  drawing  on  a  high  number 
of  briefings  from  a  range  of  relevant  senior  United 
Nations officials in conducting a total of 28 meetings 
and consultations and releasing four press statements on 
Syria. The Council also followed closely the situation 
in other parts of the Middle East, including Lebanon, 
Libya,  Iraq  and  Yemen.  The  Council  visited  Yemen 
earlier this year, reaffirming its continued support for 
the ongoing political transition process, in accordance 
with the Gulf Cooperation Council initiative.
The Council has long paid equally close attention 
on its agenda to issues in Asia and Europe. A case that is 
worth mentioning is Timor-Leste. Thanks to the tireless 
efforts  of  the  Government  of  Timor-Leste  and  strong 
support from the international community, Timor-Leste 
13-55224
3/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
entered  a  new  stage  in  its  national  development,  and 
the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste 
successfully  completed  its  mandate  on  31  December 
2012.
While  actively  dealing  with  regional  hot-spot 
issues, the Council never slackened in its close attention 
to  thematic  issues  in  the  area  of  international  peace 
and  security.  It  adopted  a  series  of  effective  actions 
and  promoted  international  cooperation  in  such  areas 
as counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and combating 
transnational organized crime. It also strengthened the 
capacity of the international community in collectively 
responding  to  security  threats  and  challenges  of  all 
kinds. The Council held a number of thematic debates 
on such topics as the protection of civilians in armed 
conflict,  children  and  armed  conflict,  women  and 
peace  and  security,  peacekeeping  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding,  piracy,  peace  and  security  in  Africa, 
and the rule of law.
Those  debates  enabled  the  Council  to  hear  the 
views  of  the  membership  of  the  United  Nations 
and  helped  foster  international  consensus  on  the 
issues  concerned.  The  Council  worked  persistently 
to  strengthen  communication  and  exchanges  with 
regional organizations such as the African Union, the 
League of Arab States and the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation  and  conducted  fruitful  cooperation  with 
them  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.
In order to better fulfil its responsibilities under the 
Charter and respond to the calls of the Member States, 
the  Council  attaches  great  importance  to  improving 
its working methods and has worked tirelessly in that 
regard. The Council held 174 public meetings over the 
past year. To implement the note by the President of the 
Council in document S/2010/507, five wrap-up sessions 
were convened in 2013.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the 
Council also deliberated on many other issues that had 
long captured international attention. I will not go into 
details here. As a general practice, the introduction to 
the report was prepared by the delegation of the United 
States, which held the presidency of the Council in July 
2013. Members of the Council also contributed to the 
preparation  of  the  report,  and  the  Secretariat  worked 
diligently  to  compile  it.  I  would  like  to  express  my 
gratitude to all those involved. I welcome the discussion 
by Member States on the report at this meeting and will 
be happy to convey your views to my colleagues at the 
Council.
Mr.  Minah  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union 
and  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  convening  this  joint  debate 
on item 29, entitled “Report of the Security Council”, 
and  agenda  item  123,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters”,  as  well  as 
the report of the Security Council (A/68/2).
Mr. President, we greatly appreciate your forward-
looking and instructive opening remarks this morning. 
We  wish  to  assure  you  of  our  support  throughout  the 
period of your presidency. I would also like to thank the 
Permanent Representative of China for introducing the 
report on the Security Council covering the activities of 
the Council from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 (A/68/2). 
I also wish to congratulate Ambassador Zahir Tanin on 
his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations and to reiterate our commitment to work 
with him to ensure a speedy and comprehensive reform 
of the Council.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
commitment  of  the  States  members  of  the  African 
Union  to  this  very  important  issue.  We  look  forward 
to working with all interest groups in making decisive 
progress  during  this  session.We  are  heartened  that 
since  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 
60/1), many Heads of States and Government taking the 
floor  during  the  Assembly’s  general  debate  continue 
to  reaffirm  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council 
in  order  to  make  it  more  representative,  democratic, 
effective,  transparent  and  legitimate.  Therefore  we 
must all continue to strive to reach an early agreement 
on  a  reform  model  that  takes  into  account  the  core 
values of the United Nations: inclusiveness, democracy, 
accountability, equality and transparency.
Africa’s  continued  participation  in  this  debate 
is  firmly  rooted  in  our  commitment  to  the  African 
common  position  as  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration on the reform of 
the United Nations. We remain convinced of the need 
for comprehensive reform of the United Nations system 
that  upholds  the  very  principles  of  the  Charter  for  a 
fairer  world,  one  based  on  universalism,  equity  and 
regional balance. Within this reform process, we remain 
persuaded that the reform of the United Nations should 
be  all-inclusive,  encompassing  all  the  components 
4/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
of  the  United  Nations  system,  including  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council.
In that regard, we continue the call for comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council as contained in General 
Assembly decision 62/557, which provides the basis of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  guidance  on 
the interconnectedness of the five clusters of Security 
Council reform. We remain firmly convinced that the 
African  common  position  continues  to  enjoy  broad 
support  among  the  majority  of  the  membership  and 
remains a viable option for Council reform.
We note that the main thrust of all various groups 
and stakeholder positions advanced to date is to ensure 
that  the  Security  Council  is  inclusive,  accountable, 
transparent, accessible and effective. That, we believe, 
will help ensure the promotion and preservation of the 
principles of equity and democracy and further enhance 
the legitimacy of the United Nations, in particular the 
Security Council.
We  must  reiterate  that  correcting  the  historical 
injustice  suffered  by  the  African  continent  —  as  the 
only  continent  not  represented  in  the  permanent 
category  of  the  Council  and  underrepresented  in 
the  non-permanent  category  —  is  imperative  and 
long  overdue.  In  pursuit  of  that  objective,  we  remain 
committed  to  building  alliances  on  the  basis  of  the 
African common position, with diverse interest groups 
and  Member  States  engaged  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  That  would  be  with  a  view  to  achieving 
the much desired reform of the Security Council.
It  is  manifestly  clear  that  Africa’s  position  is  a 
continental  aspiration,  which  we  believe  all  Member 
States and other stakeholders are familiar with. In that 
regard, it is important to recall that in 1945, when the 
United  Nations  was  established,  most  of  Africa  was 
not represented, and when the first reform took place 
in 1963, Africa was not considered for inclusion in the 
permanent category, even though it was represented.
Circumstances have now changed. It is proper for 
Africa  to  be  fully  represented  in  all  decision-making 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Security 
Council. Full representation of Africa in the Council, 
we say, should be according to the Ezulwini Consensus 
and the Sirte Declaration. That, in brief, means no less 
than  two  permanent  seats  with  all  the  prerogatives 
and  privileges  of  permanent  membership,  including 
the right of veto, if it continues to exist, and also two 
additional non-permanent seats.
To  that  end,  we  urge  the  wider  United  Nations 
membership to step up its efforts in working with Africa 
to urgently address what we consider an injustice. We 
consider that procrastination in that matter is a travesty 
of  justice  and  fair  play  that  continues  to  undermine 
the  dignity  of  the  African  people  and  diminishes  the 
legitimacy of the Security Council.
In  seeking  progress  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increasing  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters,  we  must  at 
this  stage  endeavour  to  reach  an  agreement  on  how 
to  move  forward  with  the  updated  third  revision  of 
the  compiled  text.  That  should  take  into  account 
the  various  suggestions  made  to  date,  as  well  as  the 
concerns raised on how to proceed with the documents, 
including the letter by the African Union’s Committee 
of Ten Heads of State (C-10) of 16 May 2013, addressed 
to Ambassador Tanin. There is therefore a need for the 
membership to first agree on the principles and criteria 
of  the  negotiations  vis-à-vis  the  five  negotiables  and 
the  interlinkages,  before  embarking  on  any  drafting 
exercise.
While  taking  note  of  your  letter  of  22  October, 
Mr.  President,  we  continue  to  advise  that  when 
necessary  you  continue  to  clarify,  for  the  benefit  of 
the general membership, the role of the advisory group 
and how it relates to the work of the facilitator and the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process,  in  particular 
the implication of that group producing a basis for the 
start of the intergovernmental negotiations.
laying 
the  basis 
in 
Decision  62/557, 
for 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  identified  the  five 
negotiable issues that, for the most part, are interlinked: 
categories  of  membership,  the  question  of  the  veto, 
regional  representation, 
the  size  of  an  enlarged 
Council, and the working methods of the Council, and 
the  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly.
On  the  question  of  the  relationship  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
working  methods,  the  C-10  at  all  times  maintained  a 
principled  position  on  those  issues,  underscoring  the 
need  to  uphold  the  primacy  of,  and  full  respect  for, 
the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
appertaining to the powers and functions of the General 
Assembly. The two clusters are inextricably linked, and 
there has been some convergence of views in general. 
That  notwithstanding,  several  concrete  proposals  on 
13-55224
5/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
how to improve the transparency of and access to the 
Council,  including  adopting  set  rules  of  procedure, 
remain actively on the table.
Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  is  an  integral  part  of  the  reform  process.  We 
therefore  reiterate  Africa’s  readiness  to  work  with  all 
interest  groups  and  other  Member  States  to  achieve 
decisive progress in that area — but as a comprehensive 
package, not in isolation in the reform process. We hope 
that work at this session will build on the progress made 
so far, as well as increase the pace to secure concrete 
gains  ahead  of  the  2015  world  summit.  We  do  hope 
it  will  generate  the  necessary  political  will  and  the 
required collective flexibility for reform of the Security 
Council  in  fulfilment  of  the  forthright  vision  of  our 
principles at the 2005 World Summit.
We 
look 
forward 
intergovernmental 
to  working  with  you, 
Mr.  President,  and  the  general  membership  within 
the 
a 
comprehensive reform, as stipulated by decision 62/557 
and  other  relevant  Assembly  decisions  on  the  reform 
process.
negotiations 
towards 
Let  me  affirm  our  commitment  to  the  process 
towards  achieving  the  acknowledged  common  will  of 
the majority of the membership to correct a matter of 
injustice done to Africa, which in our view, should be 
viewed alongside Africa’s demand, as contained in the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. We call 
on the conscience of the Assembly to continue to embrace 
Africa’s aspirations for equitable representation on, and 
an effective voice in, the Council.
The C-10 remains open, ready and willing to enter 
into consultations, both formal and informal, with all 
interest groups in the interest of our collective objective.
Mr.  Mootaz  Ahmadein  Khalil  (Egypt):  I  have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.
At  the  outset,  Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to 
express  the  Movement’s  appreciation  for  your  pledge 
in  your  acceptance  speech,  on  14  June,  to  advance 
the  reform  processes  of  all  the  principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations  during  the  sixty-eighth  session 
(see  A/67/PV.87).  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan  on  his 
reappointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council for 
the current session. The Movement would also like to 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  representative  of 
China for presenting the annual report of the Security 
Council for the period from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 
2013  (A/68/2),  and  the  United  States  delegation  for 
preparing its introduction.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance  to  achieving  concrete  results  in  Security 
Council reform through intergovernmental negotiations 
on the basis of decision 62/557 and subsequent decisions, 
ending with decision 67/561.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  be 
addressed in an early, comprehensive, transparent and 
balanced  manner,  without  setting  artificial  deadlines. 
It should ensure that the Council’s agenda reflects the 
needs and interests of both developing and developed 
countries  in  an  objective,  rational,  non-selective  and 
non-arbitrary manner. It should address all substantive 
issues relating, inter alia, to the questions of membership 
and regional representation and the Council’s agenda, 
working  methods  and  decision-making  process, 
including  the  veto.  It  should  also  garner  the  widest 
possible political acceptance by Member States in line 
with the provisions of the Charter and the Assembly’s 
relevant decisions, particularly decision 62/557.
The  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
reform  of  its  working  methods  should  lead  to  a  more 
democratic,  representative,  accountable  and  effective 
Council.  The  sixteenth  Summit  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, held in Tehran, acknowledged the historical 
injustice against Africa with regard to its representation 
in  the  Security  Council.  It  expressed  support  for 
increased and enhanced representation for Africa in a 
reformed  Council.  The  Summit  also  took  note  of  the 
African common position as reflected in the Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
The Movement continues to call upon the Security 
Council to uphold the primacy of, and respect for, the 
Charter in connection with its functions and powers. We 
stress that a decision by the Council to initiate formal or 
informal discussions on any issue that does not pertain 
to  its  mandate  or  on  a  situation  in  any  Member  State 
that does not constitute a threat to international peace 
and security is contrary to Article 24 of the Charter.
Sanctions 
imposed  by 
the  Security  Council 
remain an issue of serious concern to the Non-Aligned 
Movement. The objectives of sanctions regimes should 
be clearly defined. Their application should be set for 
6/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
a specific time frame and should be based on tenable 
legal grounds.
these 
The  General  Assembly’s  consideration  of  the 
Council’s  annual  report  is  a  core  element  in  the 
relationship  between 
two  principal  organs. 
Resolution 67/297, on the revitalization of the work of 
the General Assembly, welcomes the improvements in 
the quality of the Security Council’s annual reports and 
encourages the Council to make further improvements 
as necessary. Having examined this year’s annual report 
of  the  Security  Council,  prepared  in  accordance  with 
Council presidential note S/2010/507, the Non-Aligned 
Movement  acknowledges  the  improvement  in  quality. 
Nevertheless,  further  steps  are  still  needed  to  make 
the  annual  report  more  explanatory  and  analytical  in 
assessing the work of the Council. It is also imperative 
that future reports reflect the general views expressed 
by non-Council members during open debates.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  remains  committed 
to  the  ongoing  process  of  the  overall  reform  of  the 
United  Nations,  including  the  reform  and  expansion 
of the Security Council. Any reform measures should 
be  decided  by  the  general  membership  through  a 
transparent  and  inclusive  intergovernmental  process. 
The  voice  of  each  Member  State  must  be  heard  and 
respected.
The foregoing was a statement made on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. I shall now offer few more 
words in my national capacity.
I would like first to associate my remarks with the 
statement just delivered by the representative of Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the African Group.
Mr.  President,  we  have  received  your  letter  of 
22  October  2013  on  the  proposed  way  forward  for 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  during  the  sixty-eighth  session, 
including the establishment of an advisory group. We 
have taken note of the fact that the letter clarifies that 
the advisory group does not have a negotiating role and 
that it aims only to give you advice for producing a basis 
for the start of the intergovernmental negotiations that 
would reflect the ideas put forward in the negotiations 
so far.
We  stress  once  again  that  the  basis  for  the 
negotiations is the collective will of all Member States. 
In July 2012, a similar attempt to push the reset button 
by producing a concise document failed to garner the 
support  of  the  general  membership  during  the  sixty-
seventh  session.  Egypt  believes  that  the  same  top-
down approach will not be useful, but will only further 
complicate  the  process.  That  is  why  decision  62/557, 
which  establishes  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform,  has  set  clear  parameters 
for the process. Paragraph (d) of the decision states that 
the negotiations should be based on proposals submitted 
by  Member  States,  not  otherwise.  The  rationale  is  to 
maintain the membership-driven nature of the process 
and  preserve  the  impartiality  of  the  roles  of  both  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
Mr.  President,  yesterday, 
letter 
dated  6  November,  you  invited  Member  States  to 
identify the directions in which the search for common 
ground  might  be  undertaken  in  the  negotiations. 
We  believe  that  in  order  to  facilitate  a  smooth  start 
for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the 
current  session,  we  should  begin  by  addressing  all 
concerns  raised  with  regard  to  the  third  revision  of 
the  compilation  text.  Time  and  again,  concerns  were 
raised  by  the  African  Group  on  merging  language 
and  streamlining  positions  without  agreeing  first  on 
principles  and  criteria  regarding  the  five  key  issues. 
The  Arab  Group  voiced  similar  concerns  in  its  letter 
dated 31 October, stressing that merging positions and 
proposals  regarding  the  reform  and  expansion  of  the 
Security Council should be done after consulting with, 
and obtaining the approval of, the concerned State or 
group of States.
through  your 
We should not be looking for just any agreement. We 
are mandated here to seek a comprehensive agreement 
that allows for equitable and effective representation for 
all regions and groups. The African common position 
reflected  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration aims at achieving the legitimate aspirations 
of  a  whole  continent,  comprising  54  countries.  Its 
objective is to rectify the historical injustice to Africa 
regarding  its  representation  in  the  Security  Council. 
It  does  not  seek  to  achieve  narrow  national  political 
interests.
It  is  also  important  to  duly  take  into  account  the 
Arab  position,  adopted  at  the  summit  level  in  2010, 
requesting  a  permanent  seat  for  the  Arab  Group  in 
any  future  expansion  of  the  category  of  permanent 
membership in the Security Council. We wish to remind 
the Assembly as well that the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation  is  calling  for  adequate  representation  of 
13-55224
7/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
the Muslim world in any category of membership in an 
expanded Security Council.
commitment to the issue clearly stated in your letters of 
22 October and 6 November.
Mr. President, we count on your wisdom in building 
on  the  progress  achieved  so  far  in  the  negotiations, 
according to decision 67/561. We are confident that you 
will lead a transparent process, owned by all Member 
States and groups of States without exclusion, and that 
you will take into account all the views and concerns 
expressed in today’s debate.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Algeria on a point of order.
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria): I raise a point of order, 
Mr. President, to ask you to request that representatives 
taking  the  floor  on  behalf  of  groups  refrain  from 
speaking  in  their  national  capacity  during  those 
statements. We have just heard views expressed by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  speaking  in  his 
national  capacity,  distorting  the  position  of  the  Arab 
Group concerning the Security Council reform. I would 
like to protest, and I will take the opportunity to make 
the appropriate clarifications when I make a statement 
in my national capacity.
The President: The General Assembly takes note 
of the observation of the Permanent Representative of 
Algeria  and  his  early  notification  that  he  intends  to 
redress any grievances in his national capacity.
Mr. Yoshikawa (Japan): Before I make a statement 
on  behalf  of  the  group  of  four  (G-4)  countries, 
Mr.  President,  I  wish  to  express  my  thanks  for  your 
very  constructive  statement  earlier.  I  wish  to  assure 
the  Assembly  that  Japan  will  participate  in  the 
negotiations on Security Council reform with openness 
and  flexibility,  to  use  your  words.  I  also  thank  the 
Permanent Representative of China for introducing the 
report of the Security Council (A/68/2).
Now  I  wish  to  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
G-4  countries,  namely,  Brazil,  Germany,  India  and 
Japan.
We  wish  to  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate 
you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session  and  to 
ensure you of our steadfast support. The G-4 countries 
greatly appreciate the fact that you have chosen to give 
the reform of the Security Council the attention that it 
deserves.  We  also  commend  the  concrete  initiative  to 
drive  the  process  forward.  We  further  appreciate  the 
The G-4 countries would also like to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  on  his 
reappointment 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  look  forward  to  his  continuing 
stewardship of the process.
as  Chair 
of 
As  the  United  Nations  approaches  the  General 
Assembly’s  seventieth  session,  it  is  time  to  reflect  on 
past  achievements,  current  developments  and  future 
challenges. The approaching year 2015 reminds us that 
10  years  after  the  World  Summit,  not  everything  that 
was agreed upon has been realized. We therefore need 
to intensify efforts to translate the existing agreement 
into concrete outcomes, by 2015 at the latest.
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  document 
(resolution  60/1),  which  was  agreed  to  at  the  highest 
political level, serves as a yardstick to help us deliver 
on the mandate given collectively by our leaders. While 
important  progress  has  been  achieved  over  the  past 
years,  including  in  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
architecture,  a  severe  shortcoming  remains,  that  is, 
the lack of Security Council reform. Only a reformed 
Security  Council  that  reflects  contemporary  realities 
will be able to deal with the challenges of the twenty-
first century.
It  is  worth  recalling  that  the  2005  Outcome  calls 
for  an  early  reform —  I  underline  early  reform —  of 
the  Security  Council.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the  G-4 
countries  have  reached  out  to  all  regional  groups. 
We  aim  to  find  a  path  that  will  reflect  the  dominant 
call  by  Member  States  for  a  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  that  leads  to  an  expansion  in  both  categories 
of membership, the permanent and non-permanent. In 
so doing, we have, together with our partners, pursued 
a  constructive  approach,  calling  for  action,  not  only 
words,  and  for  progress,  not  the  status  quo.  We  are 
encouraged  by  the  broad  and  cross-regional  support 
that our efforts continue to enjoy.
Our  position  is  well  known.  As  recently  as 
26  September,  the  G-4  Foreign  Ministers  reiterated 
their  common  vision  of  a  reformed  Security  Council. 
We took into consideration the contributions made by 
countries  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  and  other  purposes  of  the  Organization, 
as  well  as  the  need  for  the  increased  representation 
of  developing  countries,  especially  African,  in  both 
categories of membership in an enlarged Council. We 
8/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
have  also  repeatedly  emphasized  that  the  Council’s 
working methods need to be improved in order for the 
Council to become more transparent and effective. The 
proposals  contained  in  our  comprehensive  2005  draft 
resolution (A/60/L.46) remain valid.
Despite  all  differences  among  members  on  the 
context of reform, it should be not be difficult to find 
common  ground  on  at  least  one  aspect,  nemely,  the 
need to finally start text-based negotiations. Only then 
will there be a chance to identify areas of commonality 
among the membership and to engage in a real give-and-
take process.
We  therefore  compliment  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
the  initiative  and  welcome  the  decision  to  establish 
an advisory group of eminent ambassadors to provide 
input for the start of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
As you indicate, such input should reflect the ideas put 
forward in the negotiations so far and identify available 
options.  We,  the  G4,  firmly  believe  that  the  work  of 
the  advisory  group  will  enable  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  to  move  to  text-based  negotiations.  We 
congratulate  our  colleagues  on  their  appointment 
and  look  forward  to  the  result  of  their  work  and  the 
resumption of the intergovernmental negotiations.
For our part, in response to the call in the letter of 
6  November,  Sir,  the  G-4  countries  are  ready  to  take 
part  in  collective  actions  in  order  to  seek  common 
ground  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  We 
stand ready to actively contribute to that process in a 
spirit of flexibility. We also encourage others to show 
the  same  spirit  of  compromise  required  to  engage  in 
a  negotiation  process  that  deserves  to  be  called  so  in 
content and not in name only. Objections to text-based 
negotiations  run  counter  not  only  to  the  spirit  of  the 
Outcome  but  also  to  the  basic  logic  of  multilateral 
diplomacy. Let us strive together to fulfil the tasks that 
remain and prove that a reform of the Security Council 
is possible.
In  conclusion,  we 
thank  you  once  again, 
Mr.  President,  for  your  initiative,  which  has  the 
potential to bring us one important step closer towards 
our  common  goal,  namely,  a  Security  Council  that  is 
more broadly representative, effective and transparent.
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  In  today’s  joint  debate  on 
the report of the Security Council (A/68/2) and on the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters,  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
CARICOM aligns itself with the statement delivered 
earlier by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  with  the  statement  that 
will be delivered on behalf of the L.69 Group.
Just a few weeks from today, on 17 December, the 
Assembly will be witness, wittingly or unwittingly, to 
the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1991 
(XVIII), entitled “Question of equitable representation 
on the Security Council and the Economic and Social 
Council”. With respect to section A of that resolution, 
the  object  was  strikingly  modest,  that  is,  to  increase 
the number of non-permanent members of the Security 
Council from 6 to 10, in order to take into account the 
changed reality of the world of 1963.
The resolution was adopted by vote in the face of 
constraining  odds:  none  of  the  permanent  members 
(P-5) of the Security Council found it possible to support 
that modest aspiration. One of the P-5 was even unable 
to vote, having been denied a seat in the United Nations 
on  that  day.  At  that  time,  two  countries  —  Jamaica 
and  Trinidad  and  Tobago  —  were  the  only  members 
of  today’s  Caribbean  Community  that  were  Members 
of the United Nations. But as sponsors of the proposal 
for  expansion  and  as  active  supporters  of  the  process 
that led to its adoption, they were counted among the 
protagonists for meaningful change.
Therefore, 
in  welcoming 
the  convening  of 
today’s debate on the reform of the Security Council, 
CARICOM  is  conscious  of  the  responsibility  we  all 
share  to  bring  about  meaningful  reform  in  the  best 
interest of the United Nations and the peoples it serves. 
The  object  of  such  reform,  in  our  view,  should  be  to 
make  the  Organization  and  all  of  its  principal  organs 
fit  for  the  twenty-first  century.  It  should  render  the 
Security  Council  more  representative,  democratic, 
accountable, accessible and effective.
In that regard, it is apposite to recall the words of 
the  representative  of  one  of  the  Member  States  that 
participated in that fateful vote process decades ago:
“the United Nations should faithfully bear in mind, 
and  reflect,  the  interests  of  the  groups  of  States 
which  really  exist  in  the  world  today,  rather  than 
allow itself to become a conservative body divorced 
from reality” (A/PV.1285, para. 79).
13-55224
9/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
Whatever  their  intended  meaning  at  the  time  first 
spoken,  those  words  now  echo  with  a  resonance  that 
befits our present consideration.
We 
therefore 
commend 
Does  the  Security  Council  of  today  faithfully 
reflect the interests of the groups of States that exist in 
the world today? CARICOM submits that any objective 
answer  to  that  question  can  be  registered  only  in  the 
negative. To the Assembly, therefore, falls the task of 
ensuring a positive and fitting response.
your 
leadership, 
Mr. President, in bringing the issue of Security Council 
reform once again to the fore. It is without question the 
greatest imperative for the future of the United Nations. 
That  is  undoubtedly  the  reason  that  world  leaders  at 
the Millennium Summit in 2000 pledged “to intensify 
our  efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects”  (resolution  55/2, 
para.  30);  and  why,  at  the  2005  World  Summit,  they 
again supported early reform of the Security Council as
“an essential element in the overall effort to reform 
the  United  Nations  —  in  order  to  make  it  more 
broadly  representative,  efficient  and  transparent 
and  thus  to  further  enhance  its  effectiveness  and 
the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions” 
(resolution 60/1, para. 153).
They  further  committed  themselves  to  continuing 
efforts to achieve a decision to that end and requested 
the General Assembly to review progress by the end of 
2005.
Despite  those  undertakings,  the  support  for  early 
reform  will  be  effectively  bereft  of  meaning  unless 
the  Assembly  acts  to  translate  that  consensus  of 
intent into a meaningful plan of action. The world has 
changed so much in the past five decades that the need 
for  a  Council  that  is  more  reflective  of  contemporary 
geopolitical  realties  has  become  a  greater  imperative 
than  ever  before.The  intergovernmental  negotiations 
launched five years ago by decision 62/557 must now 
be re-energized and reoriented to produce results.
CARICOM  therefore  welcomes  your  intention, 
Mr.  President,  to  provide  a  basis  for  negotiations, 
including  options  on  the  way  forward.  Such  options 
should  be  based  on  an  objective  assessment  of 
our  discussions  today  and  the  nine  rounds  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations held to date. They must 
be presented in a practical, negotiable format in which 
real give-and-take negotiations can begin. As we chart 
the way forward, the basis presented must clearly show 
where the varying positions of Member States converge 
and where gaps remain, and must be reflective of the 
positions of all Member States, including, of course, the 
majority.
In  this  endeavour,  we  have  the  fullest  confidence 
in  your  judgement,  Sir,  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. Your initiative to appoint an advisory group 
to  assist  you  in  this  endeavour  is  an  added  guarantee 
that  all  views  will  be  duly  reflected.  We  have  every 
confidence  that  Ambassador  Tanin,  whom  you  have 
reappointed to chair the intergovernmental negotiations, 
and  the  ambassadors  who  comprise  your  advisory 
group will act in the best interest of the process and of 
progress, and we congratulate them and offer them our 
fullest support.
and 
non-permanent 
in  both 
categories 
CARICOM  supports  expansion 
CARICOM  has  remained  seized  at  the  highest 
political level of the need for definitive progress on this 
important issue, and our delegations are fully committed 
to playing a constructive role in the process. The twenty-
fourth intersessional conference of Heads of State and 
Government  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  held  in 
Port-Au-Prince  in  February,  recalled  “CARICOM’s 
long-standing  activism  in  the  negotiations  to  reform 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council”  and  called  for 
greater urgency in achieving lasting Security Council 
reform. Allow me therefore to reiterate the position of 
the region on the key aspects of reform of the Council.
the 
permanent 
of 
membership.  We  call  for  an  increase  in  the  size 
of  Security  Council  membership  from  15  to  27. 
CARICOM  maintains  that  the  role  of  developing 
countries  should  be  enhanced  in  both  categories.  In 
that regard, CARICOM has been resolute in its support 
for  the  inclusion  of  Africa  in  the  permanent  category 
of  membership  in  the  Council.  CARICOM  calls  for 
provision for a special seat for small island developing 
States  in  a  reformed  Security  Council.  CARICOM 
supports  the  elimination  of  the  veto.  However,  in  the 
event  of  its  retention,  we  consider  that  all  permanent 
members  of  a  reformed  Security  Council  must  have 
the  same  rights  and  privileges.  CARICOM  calls  for 
improved  working  methods  of  the  Council  so  as  to 
increase  the  involvement  of  non-members  in  its  work 
and  to  enhance  its  accountability  and  transparency. 
On  the  relationship  between  the  Security  Council 
and  the  General  Assembly,  CARICOM  recommends 
that  appropriate  measures  be  adopted  to  enable  the 
10/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
General Assembly to function effectively as the chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations.
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  related  matters”,  and  does  not  cover  the 
agenda item on the report of the Security Council.
the  fervent  hope  of 
I  close  by  expressing 
the  Caribbean  Community 
that  under  your  able 
stewardship,  Sir,  the  General  Assembly  will  be  able 
to  cross  the  Rubicon  in  our  quest  for  a  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  that  will  make  it  more  broadly 
representative,  efficient,  transparent  and  accountable. 
Without such reform, the effectiveness, legitimacy and 
implementation  of  the  Council’s  decisions  will  likely 
wane with the passage of time.
As  was  the  case  50  years  ago  and  throughout  the 
process  of  consideration  of  this  important  issue,  the 
constructive engagement of CARICOM member States 
will be on the side of meaningful reform.
Mr. Bart (Saint Kitts and Nevis): I take the floor 
today on behalf of the L.69 group on agenda item 123, 
“Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”.
I have the honour to take the floor today on behalf 
a diverse group of 42 developing countries from Africa, 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  Asia  and  the 
Pacific that are united by a common cause — to achieve 
lasting  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. Our group is bound by the firm conviction that 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  of  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
is  imperative  to  better  reflect  contemporary  world 
realities and achieve a more accountable, representative, 
transparent  and,  more  importantly,  relevant  Security 
Council.
We  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session, and we also compliment you for reappointing 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of Afghanistan, as the Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  to  lead  us  forward  on  this  important 
debate.  His  reappointment  is  a  welcome  reflection 
of  the  collective  trust  invested  in  him  by  the  wider 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  and,  as  rightly 
pointed  out  in  your  letter,  helps  maintain  continuity 
based  on  institutional  memory  of  the  history  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
Let me clarify that this statement pertains only to 
agenda item 123, “Question of equitable representation 
We thank you, Sir, for having imparted leadership 
and  momentum  to  this  seemingly  intractable  debate 
on Security Council reform by convening an advisory 
group that has been mandated to provide inputs in the 
form  of  options  on  the  way  forward,  we  hope  by  as 
early as next week. The proposed input of your advisory 
group  will  help  fill  in  the  most  critical  missing  link 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  thus  far,  which 
has been the absence of a text. The intergovernmental 
negotiations  were  mandated  to  commence  text-based 
negotiations, and therefore conducting negotiations in 
a  vacuum  by  repeatedly  airing  statements  of  known 
positions  again  and  again  and  then  going  back  to  the 
drawing  board  belies  the  mandate  and  is  simply  not 
leading to progress.
Text-based negotiations were also the way forward 
proposed  by  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations in his letter of 25 July 2012, in which he 
clearly outlined the need for the production of a concise 
working document that would become the basis for real 
give-and-take negotiations.
The most recent meeting of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  on  27  June,  also  heard  33  of  the 
44 speakers ask specifically for the convening of text-
based negotiations, with several delegations calling for 
these as the only next logical step, and for the text to 
recognize the imperative of expansion in both categories 
of membership, a proposal that has already received the 
overwhelming support of the larger membership from 
the  floor  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  This, 
too, was recognized in the Chair’s own assessment of 
25 July 2012.
We  therefore  laud  your  initiative,  Sir,  to  inject 
momentum into this debate by convening an advisory 
group  to  produce  an  input  for  the  start  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  by  15  November.  We 
are assured that the intergovernmental negotiations can 
make tangible progress under your able stewardship this 
year on the basis of the President’s text that is currently 
being  discussed  by  the  advisory  group.  A  select  few, 
however,  appear  to  be  holding  the  larger  membership 
hostage  in  order  to  prevent  it  from  making  any  kind 
of  movement  forward.  Challenging  the  authority  of  a 
President of the General Assembly who was collectively 
and  unanimously  elected  does  not  bode  well  for  that 
13-55224
11/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
body, particularly when the President has clarified that 
the group’s role is purely advisory in nature and does 
not have a negotiating role.
We  therefore  urge  you,  Mr.  President,  to  take  the 
process you have embarked on to its logical conclusion, 
because  in  doing  so  you  have  the  full  support  of  the 
overwhelming majority of the membership. The efforts 
of  a  few  perpetual  naysayers  to  any  progress,  if  they 
succeed in any way in scuttling your initiative, will be 
only  a  bump  in  the  road  for  any  forward  movement. 
You have all the authority necessary for the successful 
completion of your initiative. It is important that these 
discussions  on  Security  Council  reform  do  not  go  on 
ad  infinitum.  We  submit  that  consideration  should  be 
given to conducting these discussions within some sort 
of time frame.
It was in 1963, 50 years ago, that the most recent 
expansion  enlarged  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  from  11  to  15  —  a  modest  increase  of  four, 
in  the  non-permanent  category  only.  Since  then  the 
membership of the United Nations has increased from 
113  to  193.  Eighty  Members  have  been  added,  but 
that has not altered by an inch the composition of the 
Organization’s  premier  body  mandated  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security.  We  are  in  a  truly 
bizarre position, where nearly 75 per cent of the work 
of  the  Security  Council  is  focused  exclusively  on  the 
continent  of  Africa  and  yet  since  its  inception  that 
body has not had even one permanent member from the 
whole of the 53-strong African continent. It is therefore 
critical that we move ahead with a results-based timeline 
as  an  absolute  imperative.  Failure  to  do  so  would  be 
seen only as stalling any progress, and all through the 
self-defeating plea of not imposing artificial timelines.
It is our Group’s firm conviction that 2015 — which 
will  witness  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations, as well as being 10 years since the 2005 World 
Summit, when all our Heads of States and Government 
mandated  us  to  reform  the  Security  Council  as  soon 
as  possible  —  would  be  the  right  occasion  to  deliver 
concrete outcomes on this pressing subject. Eight years 
have  elapsed  since  we  were  mandated  by  our  Heads 
of  State  in  paragraph  153  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  as  soon  as  possible  in  order  to  make  it  more 
broadly 
transparent, 
and  thus  enhance  its  effectiveness  and  legitimacy 
in  implementing  its  decisions.  Seventy-nine  of  the  
approximately  120  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
representative,  efficient  and 
who  addressed  the  General  Assembly  from  this  very 
rostrum in the general debate at the Assembly’s sixty-
eighth session called categorically for speedy reform of 
the Council. We must therefore deliver on our leaders’ 
mandate by working towards a text-based process that 
can deliver concrete outcomes in 2015. Failure to do so 
will be seen as a collective failure to deliver on what all 
our leaders signed on to in 2005.
As 
the  only  group  whose  membership  has 
increased  over  the  years,  and  in  keeping  with  our 
tradition of active support for the reform process, the 
L.69 Group has also put forward a number of proposals 
for transforming our interactions and deliberations into 
real negotiations. We hope that the advisory group will 
factor the L.69’s proposals into its inputs. As a group 
with  perhaps  the  largest  convergence  of  like-minded 
countries from the developing world, the L.69 has been 
able to significantly enhance its convergence with the 
African  Group  and  forge  a  common  position.  It  is  a 
position  that  embraces  comprehensive  reforms  and 
has  deliberately  avoided  the  piecemeal  approach  that 
some  of  the  detractors  of  any  forward  movement  on 
reforms have used to hold the process hostage. Let me 
reiterate that the L.69 acknowledges and supports the 
African shared position as enunciated in the Ezulwini 
Consensus. Such enhancement of convergence benefits 
the  momentum  contributing  to  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations process, which should also be recognized 
in the input of the President’s advisory group.
Today, when we see the Security Council’s inability 
to  respond  in  a  timely  manner  to  pressing  issues  of 
war  and  peace;  when  we  see  Council  decisions  being 
increasingly exposed to scrutiny by the public and large 
sections  of  civil  society  and  academia,  who  question 
not  just  its  representativeness  but  its  credibility,  even 
to  the  extent  of  Member  States  rejecting  seats  on 
the  Council,  we  should  be  seen  to  be  constructively 
engaged in restoring the dignity of that premier body 
by reforming it to reflect contemporary realities. Your 
initiative,  Mr.  President,  is  therefore  a  most  welcome 
opportunity for us all to seize the present momentum 
and drive the intergovernmental negotiations process to 
its logical conclusion.
The  L.69  Group  is  committed  to  playing  its  part 
in  ensuring  that  the  result  we  all  envisage  is  not  left 
to future generations, but brought about now and here, 
under your able stewardship, Mr. President.
12/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
Mr.  Bernardini  (Italy):  On  behalf  of  the  Uniting 
for Consensus Group, I would first like to express our 
appreciation to you, Mr. President, for reiterating your 
desire to make reform of the Security Council a priority 
for your mandate. As your letter of 22 October states, 
this issue is an important element in our overall effort 
to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  Organization.  That 
effort, I would add, is now more urgent than ever as we 
near the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations 
and  as  the  Security  Council  faces  more  compelling 
and  challenging  times.  The  future  and  credibility  of 
the entire United Nations system will depend on what I 
hope we will be able to do.
We also wish to join previous speakers in thanking 
China  for  presenting  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report to the General Assembly (A/68/2) and the United 
States for preparing its introduction.
These many years of negotiations have not passed 
in vain. We have shared our views, in a transparent and 
collegial way, on a particularly thorny issue that is of 
interest to the entire membership. Dialogue, when open 
and genuine, is always constructive, even if there are 
differences. It is precisely in awareness and full respect 
of those persistent divisions among the membership, not 
only on the substance of Security Council reform, but 
also with regard to how to move the process forward, 
that I would like to briefly summarize the key elements 
of the proposal of the Uniting for Consensus Group.
We  remain  absolutely  convinced  that  the  creation 
of  new  permanent  individual  members  would  be  a 
mistake. We invite the entire membership to carefully 
weigh the consequences of such a solution. In our view, 
that approach would not be in line with the interests of 
the  vast  majority  of  Member  States  from  all  regional 
groups.  It  would  in  fact  benefit  only  a  handful  of  the 
193 Member States, and it would not be a step towards 
a more democratic Security Council. Such an outcome 
would  add  another  unjustifiable  layer  of  hierarchy 
not only within single regional groups but also in the 
larger  framework  of  the  international  community, 
exacerbating rather than reconciling severe differences 
and divisions.
Uniting for Consensus understands the aspirations 
of the African Group for equitable representation and 
its  desire  to  play  its  rightful  role  in  the  work  of  the 
Council.  We  recognize  in  particular  that  the  African 
demand for equal rights and for a solution to the problem 
of  its  historic  underrepresentation  is  a  demand  on 
behalf of and for the entire African continent. It is not 
the same individual pursuit of power and privilege that 
it is for others. We appreciate that the strength of the 
African position results from its unity and consensus. 
We  also  believe  in  regional  ownership  and  consensus 
and  therefore  respect  that  position.  We  remain  ready 
to  continue  working  with  Africa  in  promoting  equal 
and non-discriminatory approaches for all groups with 
regard to their representation on the Council.
in 
The  Security  Council, 
line  with  decision 
62/557, needs comprehensive reform based on all five 
interrelated  clusters:  categories  of  membership,  the 
veto, size and working methods, regional representation, 
and the relationship between the Security Council and 
the  General  Assembly.  Nobody  would  benefit  from  a 
piecemeal  approach  or  rushed  solutions  motivated 
mainly by the desire to increase the number of seats in 
the Security Council. We should not repeat the mistakes 
made in the past, when attempts to push through hurried 
and divisive solutions both failed and made the entire 
reform exercise even more complicated.
tabled 
to 
the  need 
the  purpose  of  contributing  actively 
In  your  opening  remarks,  Mr.  President,  you 
mentioned 
to  compromise.  Uniting  for 
Consensus  is  the  only  negotiating  group  that  has 
already  officially 
two  concrete  proposals 
for  Security  Council  reform,  in  2005  and  in  2009, 
for 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process,  suggesting, 
for example, the allocation of long-term non-permanent 
seats  on  a  regional  basis.  Uniting  for  Consensus  is 
open to considering other new ideas for the purpose of 
bridging the gap with other groups, taking into account 
everyone’s proposals and legitimate aspirations.
Let me reiterate the full commitment of Uniting for 
Consensus to decision 62/557, also with respect to the 
principle  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  are 
the only legitimate forum to take decisions on Security 
Council  reform  and  find  a  solution  that  can  garner 
the  widest  possible  acceptance.  In  that  respect,  with 
reference to the recent decision of creating an advisory 
group to the President of the General Assembly on the 
Security Council reform process, Uniting for Consensus 
members  have  already  conveyed  their  assessment 
in  their  letter  of  21  October,  which  you,  Sir,  kindly 
agreed  to  respond  to  by  meeting  with  us  yesterday. 
You  stressed  the  fact  that  the  group  would  have  only 
a  consultative  purpose  and  not  be  representative  of 
any of the negotiating parties, that the advisory group 
would not have a negotiating role or a mandate to draft 
13-55224
13/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
or streamline any negotiating document or a basis for 
negotiations, and, lastly, that the advisory group would 
not  overlap  or  substitute  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. We thank you for those clarifications.
On  the  other  hand,  as  we  mentioned  yesterday, 
there are still conflicting interpretations of the group’s 
mandate and some of them, stated publicly this morning 
by  some  Member  States,  do  not  seem  to  ensure  the 
balance, equity, accountability and transparency that an 
issue of such complexity would require. In that regard, 
we draw the Assembly’s attention to our aforementioned 
letter on the composition of the advisory group and its 
mandate  as  mentioned  in  your  communication.  Thus, 
as a group that has hinged its negotiating activities on 
the  respect  of  those  principles,  we  deem  it  crucial  to 
reiterate today, before the entire membership, the firm 
position of Uniting for Consensus on the matter.
In particular, the members of the advisory group, 
given their undeniable experience and professionalism, 
will undoubtedly be able to provide the President with 
a  useful  contribution  of  ideas.  We  underscore  that 
such  a  group  cannot  bypass  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  and  the  framework  provided  by 
decision 62/557, as well as subsequent decisions of the 
General Assembly, and that it must not jeopardize the 
membership-driven  nature  of  the  process.  Therefore, 
we  do  not  recognize  the  group  as  entitled  to  perform 
any drafting role on behalf of Member States, including 
imposing  any  kind  of  negotiating  text  on  behalf  of 
others.  That  would  indeed  go  fully  counter  to  the 
membership-driven nature of the process.
Allow me to conclude by stressing that any future 
solution  to  the  Security  Council  reform  process  will 
require  bold  leadership  and  willingness  on  the  part 
of  our  Governments  to  compromise.  That  approach 
has  been  at  the  core  of  Uniting  for  Consensus’s 
engagement  in  all  nine  previous  negotiating  sessions 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Unfortunately, 
but frankly, our efforts have not been reciprocated so 
far.  Nevertheless,  let  me  reaffirm,  on  behalf  of  the 
entire Uniting for Consensus group, that we also intend 
to  maintain  that  stance  at  the  next  intergovernmental 
negotiations  sessions.  We  are  determined  to  continue 
to  engage  with  flexibility  and  a  genuine  political 
openness so that together we may update the Security 
Council to today’s new reality, increasing the Council’s 
accountability, transparency and effectiveness.
Mr.  van  Oosterom  (Netherlands):  I  have  the 
pleasure to speak on behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium 
and the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
I thank you, Sir, for your timely convening of this 
annual  debate  of  the  General  Assembly  on  Security 
Council reform. I would also like to thank you for your 
letters of 22 October and 6 November and for putting 
this  issue  back  on  the  agenda.  We  commend  your 
decision to reappoint Ambassador Tanin. We believe he 
deserves praise for his constructive and energetic role 
as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations process 
over the past few years, and we are convinced that he 
will continue the good work.
The  intergovernmental  process  indeed  needed  an 
early resumption. We support your idea, Sir, to produce a 
basis for the start of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  an 
advisory group. We hope that your determination can 
create  a  new  momentum,  because  the  ultimate  goal 
of  our  endeavour  —  a  more  effective,  transparent 
and  representative  Security  Council  that  reflects  the 
geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  and 
contributes  to  a  more  credible  United  Nations  and  a 
reinforced international system — remains as important 
as ever.
The  main  ideas  about  Security  Council  reform 
from  the  different  groups  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations are well known. Some are shared by a vast 
majority of Member States, including Belgium and the 
Netherlands. For instance, we believe that there should 
be  an  expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  categories  of 
membership,  permanent  and  non-permanent.  Other 
ideas  and  proposals  are  more  recent  but  deserve  our 
careful  attention.  In  particular,  support  of  the  French 
proposal of a code of conduct for the voluntary limitation 
of  the  use  of  the  veto  right  in  case  of  mass  atrocities 
comes to mind. It is both ambitious and heartening. We 
encourage the other permanent members of the Council 
to consider it with an open mind.
Whatever the proposals on the table, Belgium and 
the  Netherlands  would  like  to  stress  that  all  Member 
States  should  be  genuinely  willing  to  engage  in  a 
process of give and take. Compromises will be required 
of all of us. There is no alternative, should we indeed 
want  to  make  progress.  We  have  said  it  many  times 
before — we need to take action to change the status 
quo.
14/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
After  the  conclusion  of  today’s  general  debate, 
we  will  be  looking  forward  to  the  first  meeting  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  It  will  allow  us 
to  go  into  more  detail.  We  hope  it  will  set  the  stage 
for  concrete,  informed  and  conclusive  negotiations. 
Belgium and the Netherlands assure you, Sir, and the 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  of  our 
full support for any genuine effort that can lead to real 
progress.
Mr.  Guerber  (Switzerland):  I  am  pleased  to  take 
the  floor  in  my  capacity  as  the  coordinator  of  the 
accountability,  coherence  and  transparency  (ACT) 
group,  a  cross-regional  group  of  22  States,  to  make 
a  brief  statement  in  relation  only  to  agenda  item  29, 
entitled “Report of the Security Council”.
ACT  is  currently  composed  of  Austria,  Chile, 
Costa Rica, Estonia, Finland, Gabon, Hungary, Ireland, 
Jordan, Lichtenstein, Maldives, New Zealand, Norway, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Portugal,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania and Uruguay. 
The group was launched in May as a new initiative to 
improve the working methods of the Security Council. 
The name group’s name — and acronym — reflects our 
common conviction that those qualities are needed in 
all the Security Council’s activities.
ACT  wishes  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
providing  us  with  this  opportunity  to  discuss  the 
annual report of the Security Council (A/68/2). This is 
the key moment with respect to the interaction between 
the General Assembly and the Security Council, and is 
an important point of reflection on what lies behind us.
ACT  would  also  like  to  thank  the  representative 
of  China,  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council for the month of November, for introducing the 
report to the wider membership.
ACT  strongly  believes  that  the  content  of  the 
report  is  of  high  importance  and  would  welcome  the 
opportunity  to  examine  its  content  in  depth  before 
commenting  on  it.  We  were  therefore  pleased  to 
receive  assurances  from  the  President’s  Office  that 
he  will  convene  a  separate  meeting  at  the  end  of 
November — presumably on 21 November — to allow 
more thorough debate on agenda item 29. On behalf of 
ACT, I wish to thank you, Sir, for giving Member States 
the time necessary to thoroughly read and analyse the 
report,  thus  enhancing  the  quality  of  the  discussion. 
ACT  will  deliver  a  detailed  statement  on  the  content 
of the report when the debate under agenda item 29 is 
resumed on 21 November.
Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India): I am especially 
honoured to speak here today. As I prepare to leave after 
four and a half years at the Indian Mission to the United 
Nations, it is a great honour for me to see as President 
of the General Assembly someone whom I have always 
seen as a leader and who has been a great friend and 
mentor to me. I am very honoured, Sir, to speak here 
today as you preside over this meeting. Our delegation 
at  the  highest  level  has  of  course  congratulated  you 
and offered its fullest support. Please allow me at the 
personal  level  also  to  congratulate  you  and  to  offer 
the  full  support  of  our  delegation  as  you  conduct  the 
business of the current session.
We  very  much  welcome  your  initiatives  and  your 
leadership,  Mr.  President,  to  strongly  invigorate  the 
process  of  Security  Council  reform.  As  my  colleague 
from the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) has said, 
this  is  one  of  the  most  important  issues  before  the 
Organization today.
We would also like to thank the representative of 
China for presenting the report of the Security Council 
(A/68/2).
The  main  purpose  of  my  statement  today  is  to 
address  the  issue  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
an increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other related matters. At the outset, I would like to 
welcome  the  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
which is a most positive development and brings much-
needed institutional continuity to this debate.
Before  I  delve  into  the  substance  of  my  remarks, 
allow me to align myself with the statements delivered 
earlier by the representative of Japan on behalf of the 
Group of Four, and by the representative of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis on behalf of the L.69 group. I would also like 
to lend my fullest support to the statement delivered by 
the representative of Guyana on behalf of CARICOM 
and  would  request  all  of  those  present  to  pay  special 
heed to what he said.
Having closely followed the debate on the reform 
of  the  Security  Council  over  the  past  four  and  a  half 
years in New York, as well as for nearly a decade before 
that, I would like to submit a few myth-busters to set 
the record straight on some of the key issues that have 
recently been raised.
13-55224
15/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
First,  we  have  been  involved  in  nine  rounds  of 
intergovernmental negotiations since 2009, all of them 
literally  conducted  in  the  air.  That  might  well  be  the 
only  instance  of  negotiations  in  a  multilateral  setting 
having been conducted so far without any text, which 
goes  against  the  very  logic  of  multilateral  diplomacy. 
The process should have started off in the first instance 
on the basis of a text. It seems to me that anyone who 
says that we cannot move to text-based negotiations is 
a naysayer to any forward movement. For if we do not 
negotiate on the basis of a text, then on what basis do 
we conduct negotiations?
subsequently 
learned,  however, 
The  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
having presided over eight rounds of negotiations over 
five years, and having heard loud and clear the views 
of  all  interest  groups  and  each  Member  State,  came 
to  that  very  conclusion  in  his  letter  of  25  July  2012, 
recommending  that,  as  in  all  other  United  Nations 
processes, he should be authorized to produce what he 
called a concise working document to enable the process 
to move towards real give-and-take negotiations. That 
plea received broad support from the floor at the latest 
meeting of the intergovernmental negotiations, held on 
27 June.
We 
that  a 
select  handful  of  naysayers  protested  the  role  of 
the  Chair  and  his  recommendations,  even  though 
those  recommendations  had  been  recognized  in  the 
Assembly’s rollover decision on the subject. To address 
their  concern,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
later formed an advisory group to assist him in providing 
input  to  become  the  basis  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, and that same group of naysayers are now 
questioning  his  authority  to  do  so.  That  is  indeed  an 
outright absurdity. One simply cannot have one’s cake 
and  eat  it  too.  It  is  our  delegation’s  firm  belief  that, 
having  been  unanimously  elected,  the  President  has 
full  authority  to  choose  whom  he  wants  as  advisers, 
what and how to be advised on, and what to make of 
that advice. I must, in that context, mention that I see 
Ambassador  Noel  Sinclair  here  and  appreciate  very 
much his role and efforts too.
Let  me  reiterate  that  we  welcome  the  President’s 
initiative and hope that the input of the advisory group 
will help us move forward on the basis of a text provided 
by the President of the General Assembly.
I would also like to ask all Member States not to 
view  text-based  negotiations  as  necessarily  inimical 
to  the  position  of  any  group,  or  as  diluting  it,  nor  as 
the final word, for as and when such input is presented 
by the President to the intergovernmental negotiations, 
each and every Member State will have full authority 
to propose additions, deletions or amendments and to 
build upon the President’s initiative. But not even to let 
an input emerge and to cast aspersions does not reflect 
well on any of us.
A second myth that I would like to touch upon today 
is the often-cited need for complete consensus by the 
same set of naysayers as being the only way forward.
On  a  matter  as  complex  and  pressing  as  Security 
Council  reform,  we  all  know  that  as  and  when  it 
happens  it  will  eventually  have  to  be  tested  from  the 
floor of the General Assembly through a vote. That is 
what the Charter of the United Nations prescribes. We 
also agree and acknowledge that we are not there yet, 
but to insist that no forward movement can take place 
until we have complete consensus is only tantamount to 
delaying any kind of progress.
Time  and  again,  repeated  articulations  from  all 
the  major  stakeholders  have  proved  from  the  floor 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  well  as  the 
General  Assembly,  that  an  overwhelming  majority 
supports expansion in both categories of membership. 
That  is  also  an  observation  made  by  the  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  having  heard 
statements  from  Member  States  over  the  past  five 
years. We therefore hope that the advisory group will 
factor that into its input under consideration.
The  third  misplaced  myth  that  I  would  like  to 
touch upon is the perceived apprehension that, through 
the  process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  some 
countries  will  make  it  to  the  expanded  setting,  while 
others will not. We are at present in a process that shall 
not decide or indicate which countries would be members 
of  the  expanded  setting.  We  are  attempting  only  to 
negotiate, through the intergovernmental negotiations, 
the  broad  parameters  of  what  the  expanded  Security 
Council would be like and provide workable options on 
each of the five key issues identified in decision 62/557.
Through  the  2005  World  Summit,  we  have  a 
mandate  from  our  Heads  of  State  that  we  need  to 
fulfil. If we let the small yet vocal minority of counter-
aspirants  to  the  aspirants  scuttle  this  process  going 
forward, then we will fail in our obligation to deliver 
on that commitment.
16/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
That brings me to my final submission. The exercise 
of Security Council reform cannot be seen to be going on 
till the cows come home. Recent developments around 
the world have increasingly brought into question not 
just the representativeness but also the credibility of the 
Security Council, and the clarion call for change is only 
growing louder by the day.
All  those  are  important  tidings  that  cannot  be 
ignored  in  our  collective  quest  to  achieve  Security 
Council  reform.  We  need  to  have  a  results-based 
timeline,  and  the  year  2015  —  which  will  be  the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations and mark 
tenth year since the 2005 World Summit, when all our 
Heads of State and Government mandated us to achieve 
early  reforms  of  the  Security  Council  —  will  be  an 
important  occasion  for  delivering  concrete  outcomes 
on that most pressing subject.
We hope that we can collectively work together in 
a constructive and forward-looking manner, not just on 
the process but on the substance as well, in the interim, 
to  deliver  on  that  long-due  mandate.  Mr.  President, 
your  initiative  and  personal  commitment  are  most 
appreciated,  and  in  your  success  lies  our  collective 
endeavour.
Mr.  Al-Otaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  our  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi,  Permanent  Representative  of  China, 
for  introducing  the  Council’s  annual  report  (A/68/2), 
for  the  period  1  August  2012  to  31  July  2013.  I  also 
would like to thank the United States for preparing the 
introduction to the report and for its increased activities 
in the Council.
We congratulate our friends the new non-permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  term  2014-
2015.  We  express  our  support  for  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  welcome  the  efforts  of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  in  his  capacity  as  Chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  hope  that  he 
will achieve progress towards Security Council reform 
and  fulfil  the  long-awaited  aspiration  and  hopes  to 
reactivate and enhance the role of the Council.
More than 20 years have elapsed since discussions 
began on expanding and improving the modus operandi 
of the Council, yet the case is still faltering and requires 
the  political  will  to  bring  views  together  in  order  to 
achieve  the  desired  goals.  The  ever-more-frequent 
challenges  arising  in  the  international  political  arena 
require us to step up the negotiations and collectively to 
achieve a higher and nobler goal, including international 
consensus and viable recommendations for improving 
the working methods of the Council. These negotiations 
must include most if not all States. 
In  recent  years,  our  position  vis-à-vis  Security 
Council reform has remained firm and is based on the 
following main principles.
First,  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  take 
place in accordance with a general vision embracing the 
ongoing  reform  and  improvement  of  all  the  organs  of 
the United Nations, and seeking more complementarity 
and  balance  in  the  work  of  the  Organization.  We 
should  focus  on  advancing  the  relationship  between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  other  organs,  especialy 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  whose  prerogatives  must  not  be  encroached 
upon. The Security Council’s role should be restricted 
to  the  tasks  entrusted  to  it  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.
Secondly,  any  idea  on  reforming  the  Security 
Council  should  be  shaped  by  our  desire  to  make  the 
Council more representative of the overall membership 
of  the  Organization,  which  reflects  an  international 
reality 
the 
establishment of the United Nations in 1945.
that  has  changed  considerably  since 
Thirdly, it is important to continue improving the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  and  adding 
further transparency and clarity to its work. Permanent 
rules  of  procedure  must  be  adopted  to  improve  and 
reorganize  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council.
Fourthly, the veto must be exercised in accordance 
with specific guidelines and controls. It should be used 
only  pursuant  to  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 
Fifthly,  any  increase  in  the  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  must  be  designed  to  give  further 
opportunities  to  small  States  to  contribute  to  the 
Council’s  work.  The  rights  of  the  Arab  and  Islamic 
countries should not be disregarded in the representation, 
given  their  numbers,  importance  and  contributions  to 
defending the purposes and principles of the Charter.
With regard to improving the working methods of 
the Council, including calls for rationalizing the veto, 
13-55224
17/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
we  welcome  French  President  Hollande’s  proposal 
whereby the five permanent members would voluntarily 
abstain from using the veto in cases of crimes against 
humanity. In that context, I would like to express our 
appreciation for, and understanding of, the position of 
Saudi Arabia with regard to membership on the Council. 
We share its resentment over the Council’s impotence 
in  fulfilling  its  responsibilities  and  commitments 
vis-à-vis  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, particularly with respect to Arab and Islamic 
issues.
My  delegation  expresses  its  backing  of  the  letter 
of  31  October  addressed  by  Bahrain,  the  Chair  of 
the  Arab  Group,  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  emphasizing  the  position  of  the  members 
of  the  League  of  Arab  States  with  regard  to  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  that  a  permanent  seat  should 
be assigned to the Arab Group in accordance with the 
compendium  document  presented  by  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Intergovernmental 
negotiations are the only forum for reaching agreement 
on  expanding  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in 
accordance with decision 62/557. 
The rapid challenges and intertwined issues facing 
the  international  community  compel  us  to  persist  in 
and  insistent  on  intensifying  efforts  to  promote  and 
reactivate  the  role  and  effectiveness  of  the  Security 
Council  in  order  to  enable  it  to  meet  the  challenges 
before  it  and  to  be  more  representative,  transparent, 
credible and impartial.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  We  welcome  today’s  meeting,  which  gives 
all  Member  States  a  good  opportunity  to  discuss  the 
Security Council and its work, as well as the efforts to 
reform  the  Council.  Such  transparent  discussions  are 
extremely important. We are grateful to the Permanent 
Representative of China, Ambassador Liu Jieyi, who as 
President of the Security Council this month introduced 
the Council’s annual report (A/68/2).
We would also like to thank the delegation of the 
United States of America, which carried out significant 
work  in  preparing  and  elaborating  the  report.  On  the 
whole,  it  reflects  objectively  the  work  of  the  Council 
over the past year. The Council has continued to work 
actively 
today’s  most  pressing 
challenges,  a  fact  that  demonstrates  the  Council’s 
unique  legitimacy  in  the  eyes  of  the  international 
community as the body charged with settling disputes 
towards  resolving 
affecting  international  peace  and  security.  Despite 
all  the  politicized  criticism,  an  objective  comparative 
analysis  reveals  that  the  Council  is  one  of  the  most 
effective international institutions.
Reforming  the  Security  Council  is  clearly  very 
important, but it should not be allowed to detract from 
the ability of the Council and the General Assembly to 
resolve real global challenges so as to avoid problems 
in the future. Let us not assume that a broader Security 
Council  would  be  more  able  to  find  the  appropriate 
solutions.  It  would  more  than  likely  complicate  that 
process. In considering specific reforms of the Security 
Council, we should ask ourselves if they would genuinely 
lead  to  a  more  balanced  Council  or  to  a  fragmented 
body in which certain regions and States are favoured 
at the expense of others. Would a reformed Council be 
equipped to deal with a fast-changing world?
Russia has championed making the Security Council 
a  more  representative  body.  However,  such  efforts 
should  not  affect  the  Council’s  ability  to  respond  to 
emerging crises and challenges rapidly and effectively, 
all  the  more  pressing  today  as  we  witness  a  growing 
number  of  conflicts  throughout  the  world.  We  are  in 
favour of keeping the Council as it is, namely, compact. 
Its  optimal  number  should  not  exceed  20  members. 
In  our  view,  it  would  be  unacceptable  to  restrict  the 
prerogatives of the permanent five members, such as the 
veto, which are a reflection of the historic contribution 
made by the permanent five to the establishment of the 
United Nations. I should also like to recall that the veto 
is  an  important  factor  that  has  prompted  members  of 
the  Security  Council  to  find  balanced  solutions,  and 
infringing  on  that  prerogative  would  be  wrong  from 
both the historical and the political points of view. The 
right of veto has in the past allowed us to avoid taking 
decisions that would have advanced the political agenda 
of a single group of States, thereby complicating efforts 
to resolve problems that required rapid and appropriate 
solutions.
We,  like  many  others,  fully  support  the  idea  of  a 
Council  reform  process  that  would  belong  entirely  to 
Member  States.  In  that  regard,  we  are  doubtful  about 
a  non-transparent  practice  involving  the  creation  of 
various groups with limited membership that, without a 
mandate from the General Assembly to do so, would seek 
to  find  grounds  for  continuing  the  negotiations.  That 
would lead to more division among Member States, and 
we doubt that it would encourage a constructive reform 
process.  The  General  Assembly  is,  of  course,  free  to 
18/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
listen to advice of various kinds, as long as it does not 
impose  those  views  on  Members  trying  to  negotiate 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  are  convinced 
that the Security Council cannot be reformed through 
arithmetic  by  establishing  various  voting  models  for 
obtaining  the  minimum  necessary  number  of  votes. 
That  would  neither  boost  the  Security  Council’s 
authority nor strengthen the world Organization.
If  we  cannot  reach  consensus  on  reforming  the 
Security  Council,  we  certainly  need,  for  political 
reasons, to gain the overwhelming support of Member 
States,  certainly  more  than  the  minimum  two-thirds 
majority  vote  offered  by  the  General  Assembly.  We 
are prepared to look into reasonable options, including 
interim  and  compromise  solutions,  for  expanding  the 
Security Council, provided that they enjoy the broadest 
possible  support  of  Members  of  the  Organization. 
Talks have shown that we are not getting any closer to 
a  comprehensive  formula  for  reforming  the  Security 
Council that could enjoy the broadest possible support. 
There  is  no  common  understanding,  which  makes  it 
impossible to go forward with substantive work.
In such circumstances, we see no other alternative 
but to work towards converging the outcomes of talks 
during the Assembly. We anticipate that the efforts of 
the President of the General Assembly, Mr. John Ashe, 
and  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
Ambassador  Tanin,  who  is  mediating  the  talks,  will 
provide all the assistance required, on the understanding 
that the negotiation process remains firmly in the hands 
of  Member  States.    We  are  convinced  that  such  work 
must  take  place  in  a  calm,  transparent  and  inclusive 
manner, devoid of tentative time frames, since it is of 
the utmost importance to ensure that Member States of 
the United Nations make the right decision.
In conclusion, we believe that progress in reforming 
the  Security  Council  hinges  solely  on  the  political 
will  of  Member  States  and  their  readiness  to  reach  a 
reasonable compromise.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 
all, I would like to thank the Permanant Representative 
of  China  for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/68/2)  and  the  delegation  of  the  United 
States for contributing to its elaboration. I would like to 
convey to you, Mr. President, my heartfelt gratitude for 
making the reform of the Security Council one of your 
priorities. I assure the Assembly of my country’s firm 
support for any effort to advance an intergovernmental 
process on this issue within the framework of a General 
Assembly mandate, as stated in decision 62/557.
I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  facilitator 
of  the  negotiations,  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  Mr  Tanin,  for  his  tireless  efforts  in 
coordinating  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform 
and  to  congratulate  him  upon  the  renewal  of  his 
mandate during this session. 
The  delegation  of  my  country  associates  itself 
in  that  connection  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Sierra Leone, on behalf of the African 
Group,  and  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.
As  the  world  undergoes  profound  geostrategic 
changes, almost all countries now recognize the need 
to  readjust  international  relations  and  the  dynamics 
governing  them  to  current  international  and  regional 
realities.  The  Security  Council,  which  is  at  the  very 
heart  of  those  dynamics  as  the  body  charged  with 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  cannot 
be  spared  from  such  reform.  The  Security  Council 
must  be  reformed  so  as  to  enable  us  to  bolster  its 
effectiveness and its ability to function, fully assuming 
its  responsibilities  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.
its  diplomacy,  knows  well 
Tunisia,  which  has  participated 
in  various 
peacekeeping  operations  since  the  1960s,  and  which 
has  contributed  to  conflict  resolution  through  its 
contingents  and 
the 
challenges of war and hotbeds of tensions. My country 
remains  convinced  that  a  Security  Council  with  such 
a  restrictive  composition  and  such  rigid  mechanisms 
as  today  would  find  it  difficult  to  meet  the  current 
needs for rapid, effective and appropriate intervention 
in  emerging  conflicts  or  the  aspirations  of  peoples 
all  over  the  world  who  see  in  the  United  Nations  and 
its  executive  body  the  only  recourse  when  hope  has 
vanished.  The  hotbeds  of  tension  in  the  Middle  East, 
both long-standing and new, are the best illustration of 
that.
Within that framework, my delegation would like 
to  reiterate  its  support  for  efforts  undertaken  within 
the  framework  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the question of equitable representation on the Security 
Council.  The  goal  of  such  efforts  is  to  reach,  in  a 
transparent and inclusive manner, a consensus solution 
that would enjoy the broadest possible political support 
of Member States.
13-55224
19/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
In 
the  same  context,  Tunisia  welcomes 
the 
commitment expressed by the President of the General 
Assembly,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  in  his  letters  addressed 
to  Member  States  to  step  up  efforts  to  give  a  new 
impetus to the intergovernmental negotiations process. 
That  should  remain  the  sole  appropriate  institutional 
framework mandated by the General Assembly to deal 
with the issue of Security Council reform.
We  believe  that  the  ultimate  aim  of  any  Security 
Council  reform  must  be 
to  strengthen  equitable 
representation  within  that  body.  That  will  enable  the 
Council to acquire the necessary legitimacy to act on 
behalf of the international community. That objective 
can  be  achieved  only  if  the  restructured  Security 
Council  reflects  all  viewpoints  of  the  international 
community and gives developing countries in particular 
their rightful place on the Security Council.
In  that  context,  Tunisia  continues  to  strongly 
support the position of the African Union, as reflected 
in the Ezulwini Consensus. We believe that it is time 
to  redress  the  current  situation  whereby  the  African 
continent remains deprived of a permanent seat on the 
Security Council. The same goes for the Arab region. 
That is why my country also supports the position of the 
Arab Group, as contained in the summary document of 
the intergovernmental negotiations.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  be 
comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced.  We  must 
ensure that the Council agenda reflects the needs and 
interests  of  both  developed  and  developing  countries 
in an objective, rational and non-selective manner. All 
substantive  issues  must  be  addressed,  including  its 
composition, regional representation, agenda, working 
methods  and  decision-making  process,  including  the 
right  of  veto.  The  reform  must  also  take  into  account 
the relationships between the Security Council and the 
other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well 
as full respect by the Council for the prerogatives and 
functions  of  each  of  those  bodies,  in  particular  the 
General Assembly. Such issues should be accorded the 
same importance and consistency as other categories of 
the reform.
Sir Mark Lyall Grant (United Kingdom): I would 
like to thank the Permanent Representative of China for 
introducing the report of the Security Council (A/68/2) 
this morning.
The United Kingdom is pleased to make a statement 
on Security Council reform. It is an opportunity for us 
to  highlight  our  clear  commitment  to  reforming  the 
Security  Council  so  that  it  is  more  representative  of 
the modern world. We know that the vast majority of 
Member  States  share  that  overarching  aim.  However, 
the  proposals  for  what  shape  the  reform  should  take 
differ  and  will  require  genuine  negotiation  to  find  a 
common view. It is time for that negotiation to start.
The United Kingdom supports broadening Council 
membership  to  include  permanent  seats  for  Brazil, 
Germany,  India  and  Japan,  along  with  permanent 
African representation. We also support the expansion 
in the non-permanent category of members. But while 
our positive position on reform is well established, we 
nonetheless  welcome  new  initiatives  that  can  provide 
much needed momentum to the reform debate, and we 
remain willing to work with all parties and groups that 
share that commitment.
In  that  spirit,  we  welcome  the  reappointment  of 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. He has worked tirelessly in that role, and 
we support his continued efforts to find a way forward 
in the intergovernmental negotiations. We also welcome 
your  initiative,  Mr.  President,  to  create  an  advisory 
group  and  we  look  forward  to  discussing  their  ideas 
and proposals with the wider membership. The key to 
unlocking progress on reform is to establish a common 
position from which we can all move forward together.
We note the French proposal on the use of the veto 
and agree that it is essential that the Security Council 
act to stop mass atrocities and crimes against humanity. 
For  our  part,  the  United  Kingdom  cannot  envisage 
circumstances  where  we  would  use  our  veto  to  block 
action to avert a mass atrocity or to stop crimes against 
humanity. We will continue to work within the Council 
to ensure that it meets its responsibilities, as set out in 
the Charter, and with the wider membership for a reform 
of the Council that both makes it more representative 
and enhances its effectiveness.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
the  United  Kingdom’s  commitment  to  improving  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods  and  its  efforts 
in  that  regard.  Much  has  been  achieved  in  the  past 
few  years  to  improve  both  the  transparency  and  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council,  including  more 
open debates. We heard from my Chinese colleague that 
there were 174 open meetings of the Security Council 
in  the  past  12  months.  There  have  been  more  Arria-
style meetings and an increased use of videoconference 
20/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
facilities. At the Council debate on working methods on 
29  October  (see  S/PV.7052),  I  suggested  measures  for 
improving the Council’s efficiency, including keeping 
interventions to the allotted time, and advocated that the 
Council expand its work on conflict prevention through 
mechanisms  already  at  its  disposal,  such  as  horizon 
scanning. We will continue to make such proposals in 
the belief that an effective and transparent Council is in 
the interest of all Member States.
Mr. Oh Joon (Republic of Korea): I would like to 
express our appreciation to you, Sir, as President of the 
General  Assembly,  for  convening  this  meeting.  I  also 
thank  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi  of  China  for  introducing 
the annual report of the Security Council (A/68/2) on 
behalf of the Council.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council’s  daily 
efforts  to  fulfil  its  mandate  to  maintain  peace  and 
security  covered  virtually  all  regions  of  the  world. 
African issues remained at the forefront, representing 
more  than  60  per  cent  of  the  Council’s  work.  The 
Council’s  vigorous  engagement  was  essential 
in 
bringing positive developments in countries such as the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali and Somalia.
Peacekeeping operations proved in most cases to be 
effective in advancing peace and security in Africa. The 
Council  has  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  enhancing 
stability  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  by 
authorizing the deployment of the Intervention Brigade 
within  the  United  Nations  Organization  Stabilization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
through resolution 2098 (2013).
In  Mali,  the  adoption  of  resolution  2100  (2013), 
which established the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali, represented a 
significant step in improving the security situation and 
in accelerating the political process in that country.
On  Somalia,  we  value  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia through 
resolution  2102  (2013)  with  a  mandate  to  support  the 
peace and reconciliation efforts of the Government of 
Somalia.
Such  achievements  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  Council’s  constructive  engagement  with 
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  such  as  the 
African  Union  (AU)  and  the  Economic  Community 
of  West  African  States.  While  the  Security  Council 
has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, the efforts of regional 
organizations  to  take  ownership  and  to  resolve  their 
own issues should be strongly supported. The continued 
engagement of the AU Peace and Security Council on 
the pending issues between the Sudan and South Sudan 
is a case that underlines that point.
Among  the  work  of  the  Council  in  other  regions, 
the  completion  of  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Integrated  Mission  in  Timor-Leste  last  year  is  a 
testament  to  what  the  international  community  can 
achieve  by  working  together  and  is  the  model  of  a 
successful exit strategy.
Notwithstanding  the  progress  made,  the  situation 
in  Syria  continues  to  be  the  biggest  challenge  facing 
the Council. Too much bloodshed has occurred, and we 
are deeply concerned about the continued violations of 
human rights and the deterioration of the humanitarian 
situation  in  Syria.  The  Security  Council  was  only 
recently able to adopt resolution 2118 (2013) on chemical 
weapons  and  to  issue  a  presidential  statement  on  the 
humanitarian  situation  (S/PRST/2013/15).  While  their 
full  implementation  is  a  vital  requirement,  a  political 
settlement should end the crisis without further delay. 
We urge that a “Geneva II” conference be held as soon 
as possible.
Another continuing issue for the Security Council 
is the process aimed at achieving peace between Israel 
and Palestine. The Republic of Korea supports a two-
State  solution,  which  envisages  both  the  Israeli  and 
Palestinian  peoples  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.  We  hope  that  the  two  sides  remain  firmly 
committed  and  reach  an  agreement  within  the  agreed 
time frame.
Turning  to  the  area  of  non-proliferation,  the 
Council  took  robust  action  against  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  December  2012  launch 
using ballistic missile technology, and its third nuclear 
test, in February of this year. Resolutions 2087 (2013) 
and 2094 (2013) strongly condemned those actions as 
violations  of  the  Council’s  relevant  resolutions,  and 
further  strengthened  the  sanctions  regime  on  North 
Korea. The adoption of those resolutions has reaffirmed 
the  Council’s  credibility  and  authority  in  preserving 
international  peace  and  security  and  upholding  the 
principle of non-proliferation. The work of the Security 
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 
1718 (2006) has been instrumental in that regard.
13-55224
21/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
Among other thematic issues, significant progress 
has been made in advancing the agenda of the protection 
of civilians in armed conflict. The Republic of Korea, as 
President of the Council in February, convened a high-
level open debate on the issue (see S/PV.6917), in which 
the Council rightly reaffirmed that protecting civilians 
is one of its fundamental responsibilities. The issuing 
of  a  related  presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2013/2) 
underlined  the  Council’s  commitment  to  countering 
impunity  and  ensuring  peacekeeping  missions’ 
effective  implementation  of  protection  mandates.  The 
continuing  high  level  of  casualties  in  many  conflict 
situations  demonstrates  clearly  that  the  protection  of 
civilians,  particularly  women  and  children,  should 
remain a priority in the work of the Council.
Improving 
the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods  is  an  important  element  in  bolstering  the 
effectiveness  and  legitimacy  of  its  work.  During  the 
reporting  period,  the  Council  has  undertaken  efforts 
to  enhance  transparency  and  efficiency  as  well  as  to 
strengthen  interaction  with  the  wider  United  Nations 
membership.  Encouraging  developments 
include 
the  holding  of  wrap-up  sessions  and  briefings  by  the 
presidencies,  the  use  of  formats  such  as  informal 
interactive  dialogues,  and  the  convening  of  meetings 
with troop- and police-contributing countries on a more 
regular basis. We are pleased to note that the Security 
Council Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions  has  advanced  transparency  in 
the Council’s work through the adoption of presidential 
notes S/2013/515 and S/2013/630.
The  Republic  of  Korea  believes  that  in  pursuing 
reform  of  the  Council,  all  of  us  should  also  strive  to 
strengthen  its  democratic  underpinnings  so  as  to 
enhance its accountability to the general membership. 
In  that  connection,  we  are  of  the  view  that  the  only 
plausible  way  to  bring  about  a  more  representative, 
democratic  and  effective  Security  Council  is  through 
the holding of periodic elections.
We  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  his  letter  dated  22  October,  which  conveys  his 
intention  to  continue  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  during  the  sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly. We remain convinced 
that  Security  Council  reform  should  be  firmly  based 
on a membership-driven and comprehensive approach, 
as stipulated in Assembly decision 62/557. In line with 
that,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  the  only 
forum  for  reaching  an  agreement  on  the  issue,  which 
is  of  critical  importance  for  the  future  of  the  United 
Nations.
The Republic of Korea, as a current non-permanent 
member of the Security Council, will continue its efforts 
to realize a more accountable and efficient Council.
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  annual 
plenary  debate  on  the  important  topic  of  Security 
Council  reform.  First,  however,  I  would  like  to  thank 
the President of the Security Council, Ambassador Liu 
Jieyi  of  China,  for  his  introduction  to  the  Council’s 
annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/68/2).  The 
report,  a  requirement  under  Articles  15  and  24  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  ensures  that  all 
Member  States  can  be  kept  apprised  of  the  Council’s 
work  throughout  the  reporting  period.  This  year,  the 
United States delegation was responsible for preparing 
the introduction of the annual report. One of our goals 
was  to  keep  it  as  concise  and  readable  as  possible, 
while  also  summarizing  the  large  amount  of  content. 
My delegation thanks the current and former Council 
members who assisted in that task.
Today’s  debate  occurs  just  before  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the creation of the Open-ended Working 
Group on Security Council Reform in December 1993, 
when  we  adopted  resolution  48/26  by  consensus. 
Since  then,  79  different  Member  States  have  served 
as  non-permanent  members  on  the  Council.  We  have 
collectively  addressed  many  different  topics  over 
that  period  with  those  many  partners,  each  of  whom 
contributed to the important work of the Council. Their 
contributions  demonstrate  that  we  need  a  Security 
Council  that  better  represents  twenty-first-century 
realities  and  is  maximally  capable  of  carrying  out  its 
mandate and effectively meeting the global challenges 
of this century.
The United States is open to modest expansion of 
the Council in both the permanent and non-permanent 
categories. Any consideration of which countries merit 
future permanent membership should take into account 
their  ability  and  willingness  to  contribute  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  and 
to other purposes of the United Nations, and to exercise 
the  heavy  responsibility  that  comes  with  Security 
Council membership.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  reappointment  of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan  to  chair  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
22/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
reform,  and  we  look  forward  to  resuming  those 
meetings this month. Mr. President, we have also read 
attentively your letter dated 22 October, in which you 
notified Member States that a new advisory group had 
been formed to produce a basis for the resumption of 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  The  United  States 
looks forward to receiving the group’s ideas.
Finally,  we  should  all  approach  the  upcoming 
sessions  on  Security  Council  reform  constructively. 
We know that many Member States feel that the issue 
has  in  fact  been  studied  far  too  long  without  action. 
But hopefully, by working together, we can consider a 
way forward that is agreeable to the broadest possible 
majority of United Nations members and that can best 
promote  the  Council’s  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
other purposes of the United Nations.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  I  thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  meeting  on  the  two 
very  important  subjects  of  how  the  Security  Council 
has been working in the past year and how its reform 
has  been  proceeding.  We  thank  the  President  of  the 
Security Council, Ambassador Liu Jieyi, for introducing 
the Council’s annual report (A/68/2). 
The leitmotif of this discussion is the accountability 
that  accompanies  the  Security  Council’s  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Accountability  helps  improve  the 
Council’s  efficiency  and  effectiveness.  It  also  creates 
conditions  for  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council’s 
composition and working methods.
transparency, 
Small,  incremental  and  yet  significant  measures 
have  been  taken  on  working  methods  in  the  form 
of  presidential  notes.  The  Council  has  focused  its 
efforts  on 
interaction  and  dialogue 
with  non-Council  members,  and  on  strengthening 
cooperation  with  the  troop-  and  police-  contributing 
countries. The process of appointing the chairs of the 
Council’s  subsidiary  bodies  is  also  being  made  more 
transparent, balanced and inclusive. Wrap-up sessions, 
revived  during  Pakistan’s  presidency  of  the  Council 
in January, have been widely applauded. Pakistan has 
re-energized  the  Security  Council  Working  Group  on 
Peacekeeping, which has this year taken up the important 
subjects of safety and security, new technologies, robust 
peacekeeping, transition and drawdown.
The  Council  owes  much  of  its  success  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping, particularly its multidimensional 
missions.  Pakistan  takes  pride  in  its  role  as  a  troop-
contributing  country.  Resolution  2086  (2013)  on  a 
multidimensional  approach  to  peacekeeping,  adopted 
during  Pakistan’s  presidency  in  January,  gives  a 
blueprint  for  handling  complex  crises, 
inducting 
post-conflict  peacebuilding  into  the  conceptual  and 
early  planning  stages  of  peacekeeping  missions,  and 
preventing the relapse of conflicts.
In terms of the conduct of its business, the Council 
is efficient and effective. The agenda is for the most part 
predictable.  Very  little  time  is  devoted  to  procedural 
debates or wrangling. Members go straight to the heart 
of the substance. Even the configuration of the agenda 
is well known. Roughly two thirds of the agenda relates 
to  Africa.  The  working  environment  is  collegial.  Of 
course, differences exist on a wide range of issues that 
are  resolved  through  negotiations.  We  have  proposed 
that  communication  between  the  permanent  five,  the 
non-permanent  members  and  the  general  membership 
during serious crises be improved by using the office 
of the President of the Security Council.
On  issues  not  related  to  the  Middle  East,  the 
Council’s  delivery  and  results  range  from  good  to 
outstanding,  depending  on  various  situations.  The 
Security  Council  has  succeeded  in  Somalia,  Côte 
d’Ivoire and Liberia. It has attained impressive progress 
in Mali despite daunting challenges. The Council has 
shown  resilience  in  chronic  conflict  situations  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African 
Republic,  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan,  which  require 
strategic thinking and the support of regional partners 
for achieving durable peace. Yemen is moving towards 
stability and democratic governance and Timor-Leste is 
undergoing a successful transition. In the years to come, 
we  would  welcome  close  United  Nations  involvement 
in Afghanistan as it negotiates delicate and momentous 
political, security and economic transitions.
New  paradigms  and  concepts  have  emerged  from 
Council’s  resolutions  in  the  realm  of  peacekeeping. 
These  are,  first,  a  region-wide  approach,  such  as  in 
the Sahel and the Great Lakes region; secondly, robust 
peacekeeping manifested by the induction of the Force 
Intervention Brigade in the United Nations Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo;  thirdly,  deployment  of  unmanned  aerial 
systems  and  growing  demand  for  them;  and  fourthly, 
the growing cooperation of the Council with regional 
and subregional organizations, especially in Africa.
13-55224
23/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
On  the  Palestinian  issue,  the  Council  plays  a 
peripheral  but  very  significant  role.  The  Council, 
through its debates, keeps the spotlight on the Middle 
East. We sincerely hope that the negotiations between 
Palestine and Israel, renewed with the help of the United 
States, will lead to a genuine and result-oriented peace 
process.
The  Council  has  moved  swiftly  in  launching  a 
process  for  securing  and  destroying  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons.  We  hope 
the  newfound  goodwill 
between  countries  with  influence  in  the  region,  and 
the successful collaboration on the chemical weapons 
issue, will pave the way for the “Geneva II” conference 
and enable it to engender a political solution.
that 
Let me turn to the issue of Security Council reform. 
Pakistan fully associates itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Italy on behalf of the Uniting 
for Consensus group. While addressing the Assembly 
in September, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan 
said:
“The  United  Nations  needs  reform  ...  that 
reflects the interests of all, not just the ambitions 
of  a  few  ...  The  intended  reforms  must  ...  plan 
for  a  dynamic  future,  not  entrench  or  replicate 
outdated  historical  patterns  based  on  privileges.” 
(A/68/PV.15, p. 22)
We oppose in principle the notion of new, individual 
permanent  members  because  it  runs  counter  to  the 
avowed  objectives  of  transparency,  democratization 
and  inclusive  decision-making.  There  should  no  new 
centres of privilege.
Pakistan is a member of the Uniting for Consensus 
group,  which  is  one  of  the  major  stakeholders  in  the 
reform  process.  We  also  subscribe  to  the  positions  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation.  We  will  engage  constructively 
with all sides to make progress on reform.
Within the confines of this approach, we have also 
expressed our respect and understanding regarding the 
African  common  position,  the  Ezulwini  Consensus, 
which  we  see  as  a  collective  demand  of  the  entire 
continent  and  a  position  based  on  consensus  and 
legitimacy.  That  is  fundamentally  different  from  the 
individual  pursuit  of  permanent  membership  by  a 
few countries from other regions, which runs the risk 
of  exacerbating  divisions  and  tensions.  The  African 
position is a special case and should be treated as such. 
We will continue to be supportive of Africa’s just cause 
for a greater role in the Security Council.
We need to explore the best ways of moving forward 
in  intergovernmental  negotiations.  At  this  stage,  it  is 
better  to  have  clarity  and  common  understanding, 
or  the  “common  ground”  mentioned  in  your  letter  of 
yesterday, Mr. President. Decision 62/557 clearly spells 
out the framework and mandate of the intergovernmental 
negotiating process, and sets the following parameters.
First,  it  is  a  membership-driven  process  based 
on  the  positions  and  proposals  of  Member  States  and 
groups. Secondly, the goal is to achieve a comprehensive 
reform  comprising  the  five  key  issues:  categories  of 
membership, veto, size and working methods, regional 
representation,  and 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  Thirdly, 
it is a process to be pursued in good faith, with mutual 
respect,  and  in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent 
manner  with  the  objective  of  seeking  a  solution  that 
can garner the widest possible political acceptance of 
Member States.
the  relationship  between 
We  are  now 
into 
the  sixth  year  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  a  process  that  has 
swung  between  high  expectations  and  frustrations. 
The rationale for starting the negotiations was that no 
proposal for reform of the Security Council had been 
able  to  muster  the  required  support  in  the  General 
Assembly.  All  Member  States  and  groups  agreed  to 
engage in a negotiating process to find a solution. Such 
an engagement would be useful only in an environment 
of flexibility. Without the readiness to meet half way, 
progress  was  bound  to  be  difficult.  In  the  past  five 
years, the Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations 
has  also  made  frequent  calls  for  flexibility.  That, 
incidentally, is the crux of the President’s letter issued 
yesterday and his remarks made today.
In comparative terms, let us look at the negotiating 
positions  and  postures  of  some  groups.  The  Uniting 
for  Consensus  group  has  always  been  ready  for 
negotiations  and  has  demonstrated  flexibility.  It  took 
the  bold  initiative  to  unilaterally  shift  from  its  initial 
position and come up with a revised proposal, the Italy-
Colombia  document.  Our  compromise  proposal  is  an 
attempt to aggregate and reflect the interests of large, 
medium-sized and small States as well as regions. Ours 
is  not  a  take-it-or-leave-it-proposal.  It  is  subject  to 
negotiations.
24/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
On  the  other  hand,  we  see  the  Group  of  Four 
sticking to their original position, while paradoxically 
asking  others  to  be  flexible.  They  would  rather  foist 
their position upon others as a fait accompli. For them, 
other  reform  issues  are  peripheral.  Their  position 
seems to be anchored in power politics. They seem to 
be  saying  that,  because  of  their  political  stature  and 
economic prowess, they now qualify for special status 
at the United Nations, whereas other Member State do 
not. At times one gets the impression that they scuttle 
negotiations or press the Chair to produce documents 
that do not reflect wider interests.
I  am  afraid  that,  in  this  process,  the  majority-
minority calculus will not work. We cannot precipitate 
decisions  by  mounting  political  pressure  before 
important  anniversaries,  and  there  are  no  procedural 
shortcuts.  In  all  sincerity,  last  year  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  sought  the  general 
membership’s  approval  to  produce  a  short  document 
to  serve  as  a  basis  for  negotiations.  But  since  that 
would  have  been  contrary  to  the  comprehensive  and 
Member  State-driven  nature  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process,  the  Chair  was  not  given  that 
mandate.
We have immense respect for you, Mr. President, 
because  of  your  high  standing  and  professional 
qualities. You were unanimously elected by the entire 
membership.  You  have  our  support  for  the  entire 
spectrum  of  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly. We respect your prerogative to seek advice 
and  to  consult.  We  were,  however,  dismayed  when 
we  received  your  communication  of  22  October.  The 
Uniting for Consensus group responded to your letter 
along the following lines.
transparency, 
First,  the  process  to  establish  the  advisory  group 
inclusiveness  and  extensive 
lacked 
consultations,  which  are  necessary  to  clarify  the 
objectives, terms of reference, composition and working 
methods of such a group.
Secondly,  your  letter  stated  that  the  group  is 
advisory in nature and does not have a negotiating role, 
but  you  also  point  out  that  the  group’s  purpose  is  to 
produce a basis for the start of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  reflects  the  ideas  put  forward  in  the 
negotiations so far. In other words, it will put forward a 
synthesis or a shorter document — those are my words, 
not the Uniting for Consensus group’s words.
Thirdly,  a  similar  mandate  sought  by  the  chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  was  not  given 
to  him  by  the  general  membership  last  session,  as  I 
mentioned earlier.
the 
Fourthly,  such  a  group  cannot  bypass 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  and 
the 
framework  provided  by  decision  62/557  and  it  must 
not  jeopardize  the  membership-driven  nature  of  this 
process.  Only  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  can 
take decisions on matters and procedures that impinge 
on negotiations.
As stated by the representative of Italy, who spoke 
on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  we  do 
not  recognize  the  advisory  group  as  being  entitled  to 
perform  any  drafting  role  on  behalf  of  other  Member 
States  or  imposing  any  kind  of  negotiating  text.  That 
would run counter to the membership-driven nature of 
the process.
Privately,  Sir,  you  conveyed  to  us  and  reiterated 
today that you have not authorized the advisory group 
to  draft  a  resolution  or  a  document  that  would  serve 
as  a  basis  for  negotiations.  Your  assurance  on  record 
should quash the misperception created by the earlier 
communication.  However,  misinterpretations  persist, 
as we have heard today by some who have shared their 
understanding and perception that the advisory group 
will in fact produce a concise text that would form the 
basis for negotiations, and a new term, a “PGA’s text”, 
has been used.
At this point, it is very important to have absolute 
clarity  about  the  next  steps  in  the  reform  process. 
Course correction is important to ensure transparency 
and  inclusiveness  and  to  pursue  Security  Council 
reform  in  full  conformity  with  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  framework.  We  remain  confident  that  on 
the President’s watch there will be no cherry-picking, 
no  slant  towards  one  position  or  another.  We  deeply 
appreciate  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin’s  resolute  efforts 
as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations process 
for  the  past  five  years.  It  is  important  that  we  make 
progress.  Now  is  the  time  to  build  bridges  and  forge 
consensus. As President of the Assembly and a neutral 
and independent guardian of the process, you, Sir, are 
best placed to play that role.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
United  Nations  was  established  as  a  result  of  the 
Second World War. Its purpose is to prevent the scourge 
of war and maintain international peace and security. 
13-55224
25/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
In  the  course  of  nearly  70  years  since  its  inception, 
the  international  situation  has  undergone  major  and 
profound  changes.  The  United  Nations  membership 
has  increased  tremendously.  Common  threats  and 
challenges faced by all countries have multiplied. The 
expectations of Member States for the United Nations 
and the Security Council increase continuously. As the 
main  organ  of  the  United  Nations  with  a  mandate  to 
maintain international peace and security, the Security 
Council  must  adapt  to  the  changing  international 
situation  through  reform  so  that  it  can  better  fulfil 
its  sacred  responsibility  given  by  the  United  Nations 
Charter.
to 
increase 
the  representation  of 
The  priority  in  reforming  the  Security  Council 
should  be 
the 
developing  countries,  in  particular  the  countries  of 
Africa,  and  provide  more  opportunities  for  medium-
sized  and  small-sized  countries,  which  constitute  the 
majority of the United Nations membership, to enter the 
Security Council and participate in its decision-making. 
Since  Security  Council  reform  involves  the  future  of 
the United Nations Organization and the fundamental 
interests of the entire membership, it can be achieved  
only 
through  democratic  discussion  and  patient 
consultation  among  Members  to  build  upon  common 
understanding  and  to  search  for  a  package  solution 
based  on  the  broad  understanding  among  Member 
States.
On the advancement of the reform of the Security 
Council, I would like to emphasize the following three 
points. 
First,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  be 
moved  forward  in  the  right  direction.  The  Council  is 
mandated with the important responsibility to maintain 
international  peace  and  security.  The  purpose  of  
Council  reform  should  be  to  safeguard  its  authority, 
increase  its  efficiency,  expand  its  representation, 
and  strengthen  its  role  so  that  it  can  better  meet  the 
expectations and the trust of Member States.
A highly effective, responsible, and representative 
Security  Council  is  in  the  common  interest  of  all 
Member  States.  All  countries  should  work  together 
in that process, taking into consideration each other’s 
concerns and interests for the sake of promoting mutual 
trust, an essential ingredient in a joint effort to advance 
Security Council reform. Reform should be conducive 
to the long-term development of the United Nations and 
the  common  interest  of  the  broad  membership  in  the 
United Nations.
Secondly,  Security  Council  reform  should  reflect 
democratic  consultation  and  uphold  the  solidarity  of 
Member States. At present, serious differences still exist 
on the question of Security Council reform and related 
matters,  which  should  be  settled  through  continuous, 
extensive  and  democratic  consultation.  Security 
Council  reform  cannot  be  achieved  at  the  expense  of 
the solidarity among Member States, nor can progress 
be achieved to the detriment of the solidarity that exists 
among  Member  States.  Only  consensual  decisions, 
based  on  broad  consultation,  can  gain  the  unanimous 
trust and support of Member States and stand the test 
of  time  and  history.  Setting  up  arbitrary  timelines
for  pressing  forward  on    reform  of  specific  aspects, 
when  conditions  are  not  mature,  is  not  conducive  to 
substantive  reform.  That  leads  to  deviation  from  the 
right  direction  of  the  reform  and  will  therefore  make 
the process even more difficult to carry out.
Thirdly, 
intergovernmental  negotiations  are  a 
universally  recognized  platform  for  discussion  of 
Security  Council  reform.  Maintaining  the  authority 
and  role  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will 
help  keep  the  reform  process  on  the  right  track. 
Intergovernmental negotiations must be guided by the 
principle of ownership by Members States and must be 
based on their positions and ideas. Without the common 
understanding and the authorization of Member States, 
positions and negotiating options cannot be streamlined. 
China has noted that the President of the General 
Assembly, in his letter to the entire membership dated 
22  October  2013,  has  established  an  advisory  group 
on  Security  Council  reform.  China  has  also  taken 
note  of  the  explanations  made  by  the  President  this 
morning. China has exchanged views on the issue with 
the President and the countries concerned. We believe 
that the advisory group can advise the President of the 
General  Assembly  informally,  but  has  no  negotiating 
mandate or drafting role.
Security  Council  reform  can  be  advanced  only 
in 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  framework. 
China  hopes  that  Member  States  will  continue  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  resolution  62/557  of  15  September 
2008 and in an open, inclusive and transparent manner. 
We will continue to work actively with other Member 
26/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
States to find a formula that enjoys broad consensus and 
that is in the long-term interest of the United Nations 
and the common interest of Member States.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  welcome  the  reappointment 
of Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative 
of Afghanistan, as facilitator of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council. We 
reiterate our support for his efforts and look forward to 
working with him. My delegation also aligns itself with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the African Group and of Egypt on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
For the past several years, we have been working 
to  reform  the  Security  Council,  improve  its  working 
methods  and  expand  its  membership  in  order  to 
enable  it  to  respond  to  the  existing  challenges  in  the 
international  arena  and  to  fulfil  its  basic  mandate  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Member States have made great efforts during previous 
sessions of the General Assembly to expedite the reform 
process.  However,  we  have  so  far  not  achieved  any 
tangible progress. The latest events in some regions of 
the world have demonstrated the importance of a quick 
response and movement and the need for the Council to 
take  adequate  measures  for  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and  security  and  for  protecting  thousands  of  people 
who face genuine threats to their lives.
The  delegation  of  Libya  is  determined  to  support 
efforts to reform the Security Council and is committed 
to cooperating constructively with all parties concerned. 
We will support all efforts to achieve genuine reform 
of the Council that would make it more just, in terms 
of  taking  into  account  the  opinions  and  interests  of 
all  groups.  Such  broader  representation would  make 
the Council more reflective of contemporary realities, 
quicker  to  respond  to  threats  to  the  security  and 
stability  of  peoples,  and  more  capable  of  effectively 
performing its mandate in accordance with the Charter 
of the United Nations.
Libya 
the 
therefore  stresses 
importance  of 
correcting the historical injustice done to the African 
continent,  which  has  not  been  represented  in  the 
permanent  category  of  membership  in  the  Council, 
in  contrast  to  all  other  continents.  It  also  stresses  the 
importance of working to recognize Africa’s historical 
right, end its marginalization and give it the opportunity 
to  be  equitably  represented  in  the  Security  Council, 
in  both  categories,  permanent  and  non-permanent,  in 
accordance  with  the  African  common  position  stated 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration. 
Any  expansion  of  the  permanent  category  Council 
membership should include a seat for the Arab States 
as  well,  in  accordance  with  the  decision  of  the  Arab 
Summit  held  in  Sirte  in  2010,  and  the  compendium 
document prepared by the head of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.
Libya  believes  that  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council should also include the introduction of genuine 
improvements  in  its  working  methods,  activities  and 
procedures,  including,  as  a  first  stage,  ensuring  the 
restriction on the use of the veto power in cases of crimes 
against humanity, genocide or foreign occupation, until 
that  right  is  completely  abolished.  Transparency  and 
openness  should  prevail  in  the  work  of  the  Council. 
Non-members should be able to contribute to its work, 
particularly the countries most directly concerned with 
the issues on its agenda.
We  welcome  your  commitment,  Mr.  President, 
expressed in the letter you addressed to Member States 
on  22  October  2013,  to  support  efforts  to  reform  the 
United Nations, particularly the Security Council, and 
your  action  to  establish  an  advisory  group  to  provide 
inputs  and  recommendations  on  the  reform  process. 
However, we would like to reiterate that the role of that 
advisory  group  should  not  be  parallel  or  equal  to  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  stress  decision 
62/557  as  the  cornerstone  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council and 
the  expansion  of  its  membership.  That  decision  has 
reasserted  Member  States’  ownership  of  that  process, 
and we are committed to continuing the negotiations, 
provided that the positions and proposals of all groups 
and individual delegations are taken into account.
The reports submitted by the Council to the General 
Assembly  do  not  reflect  the  Council’s  commitment 
to  what  has  been  stipulated  in  Assembly  resolutions 
regarding  the  report,  in  particular  with  respect  to 
reducing  the  narrative  part  and  including  analytical 
reports on the issues upon which the Council had taken 
decisions,  the  positions  of  the  various  member  States 
and  the  reasons  that  led  the  Council  not  to  take  firm 
positions  on  important  issues  related  to  international 
peace  and  security.  We  hope  that  future  reports  of 
the  Security  Council  will  be  more  useful  and  include 
13-55224
27/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
the  reasons  that  have  prevented  the  Council  from 
implementing  its  mandate  to  preserve  international 
peace  and  security.  We  also  hope  that  the  General 
Assembly, at the appropriate time, will be able to fill in 
the gaps that have been left by the Council owing to the 
application of double standards and the use of the veto 
power or the threat of use of that power, as has been the 
case over the past few years.
Mr.  Lamek  (France)  (spoke  in  French):    Allow 
me 
to  start  by  welcoming  Ambassador  Tanin’s 
reappointment  as  facilitator  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. We thank him 
for all his efforts to make his working paper on reform 
more concise and pragmatic. In that spirit, we welcome 
the establishment of an advisory board that will support 
your efforts, Mr. President, and those of the facilitator.
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  began  in  2009.  They  followed  on  the 
heels of earlier discussions and initiatives on the same 
subject.  Indeed,  the  process  has  been  ongoing  for 
20  years  now.  It  is  clear  that  we  have  failed  to  move 
forward  on  that  issue.  Certainly,  the  debates  on  the 
subject  are  now  a  little  more  interactive,  and  many 
initiatives have provided fuel for the debate. However, 
none of them have been able to achieve concrete results.
France hopes that the new round of intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  Member 
States 
to  finally  agree  on  an  ambitious  reform 
programme. In that regard, we hope that the advisory 
board  that  you  have  established,  Sir,  will  be  able 
to  present  a  text  that,  while  drawing  on  the  various 
initiatives  presented  by  Member  States,  will  present 
a pragmatic and realistic synthesis. France hopes that 
having  a  text  for  further  negotiations  will  enable  us 
to  take  real  steps  towards  a  substantial  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
Member  States  have  the  serious  responsibility  of 
supporting an ambitious reform of the Council so that 
it can better and more accurately reflects the realities 
of  today’s  world,  while  strengthening  the  Council’s 
ability  to  fully  assume  its  responsibilities  in  terms  of 
maintaining international peace and security.
As  members  know,  France’s  requirements  for 
reform  have  not  changed.  The  reform  of  the  Council 
must  take  into  account  the  emergence  of  new  Powers 
that are willing and able to assume the responsibilities 
of a permanent presence on the Security Council and 
that are, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations, able to make a significant contribution to the 
work  of  the  Council.  It  is  in  that  context  that  France 
supports an expansion in both categories of membership 
and supports in particular the candidacy of Germany, 
Brazil, India and Japan as permanent members of the 
Security Council and an increased presence of African 
countries, including among the permanent members.
that 
involves 
its 
increasing 
Similarly,  France  supports  efforts  to  improve  the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council,  insofar 
as 
transparency  and 
efficiency.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
inform  the  Assembly  of  France’s  initiative  on  the 
voluntary limitation of the exercise of the veto, which 
has been promoted at the highest level by our President, 
Mr.  François  Hollande.  Our  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  Mr.  Laurent  Fabius,  has  also  spoken  on  the 
subject.
The  limitation  of  the  exercise  of  the  veto  would 
involve  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  voluntarily  and  collectively  suspending  their 
right to exercise the veto when mass atrocities are under 
consideration. It would thus be a voluntary process — a 
code of conduct — which would therefore not require a 
revision of the Charter. It would not in fact be a reform 
of the Security Council.
The  criteria  for  that  self-limitation  remain  to  be 
defined  by  the  permanent  members  of  the  Council 
themselves, who need to consider and agree on practical 
arrangements for the adoption of such a code of conduct. 
They must, for example, agree on a definition of mass 
atrocities.  The  outcome  document  of  the  2005  World 
Summit (resolution 60/1) and a number of international 
conventions,  including  the  1948  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 
and the Rome Statute, can guide us in that respect.
to  define 
They  will  also  need 
the  warning 
mechanism  or  mechanisms  that  could  trigger  such 
self-limitation. France is considering, for example, the 
possibility  of  the  Secretary-General  playing  a  central 
role  in  that  regard,  in  the  spirit  of  Article  99  of  the 
Charter. France has also proposed that 50 Member States 
could call upon the Security Council to meet when mass 
atrocities occur. Those proposals could allow us to start 
discussions on the subject, in particular with academia. 
To that end, France is planning to involve all the actors 
involved in the discussion, including research institutes 
and  non-governmental  organizations  working  on  the 
28/30 
13-55224
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.46
issue, who could share their thoughts with us in a very 
useful way.
make  a  few  remarks  on  how  we  see  that  the  current 
standstill could finally be overcome.
Mr. Wittig (Germany): Let me at the outset thank 
the delegations of China for introducing the report of 
the Security Council (A/68/2) and of the United States 
of America for preparing it. Allow me to also express 
my appreciation for your convening, Sir, today’s debate 
on the topic.
The annual report of the Security Council discussed 
today  covers  a  period  during  which  my  country  was 
a  member  of  the  Council.  Looking  back,  one  issue 
certainly stands out in my memory — namely, the long 
deadlock in the Council caused by three double vetoes 
and the terrible impact that had for the Syrian people. 
While the Council has found a common voice again, it 
is too little, too late for the more than 100,000 dead, the 
wounded, the starving and the displaced.
But  even  beyond  Syria,  that  episode  raises  a 
larger  question.  Is  the  Security  Council,  as  we  see  it 
today,  still  able  to  effectively  address  current  and 
future  challenges?  Members  know  our  view  that  it  is 
not.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  associate  myself 
with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  my  colleague, 
Ambassador  Yoshikawa,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Four countries. Let me add the following points in my 
national capacity.
After  many  years  of  discussions  on  Council 
reform  —  first  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
on  the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and 
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council, and 
now in the intergovernmental negotiations — we have 
reached a point where the positions of Member States 
are well known to all, where everything has been said, 
and much has been tried in order to move forward. But 
despite all of the stated commitment to reform, we are 
being held at a standstill. Understandably, frustration is 
growing among Member States.
We  welcome  new 
initiatives,  such  as 
the 
establishment  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency  Group  and  the  French  proposal  on  veto 
limitations. But important as these initiatives are, they 
do not go to the root of the problem. Germany remains 
convinced  that  only  a  real  structural  reform  of  the 
Council will make it more effective and representative 
of  the  world  we  live  in  today.  I  will  not  go  into  the 
details of Germany’s position. It is well known and has 
been placed on record numerous times. Let me rather 
Your  initiative,  Mr.  President,  comes  at  the  right 
time. We strongly welcome your decision to establish 
an advisory group of eminent Ambassadors to provide 
an input that reflects relevant opinions on the issue and 
indicates the options, which could serve as a basis for 
the  resumed  intergovernmental  negotiations  process. 
We  appreciate  your  explanation  of  the  purpose  of  the 
group,  which  shows  that  the  criticisms  that  we  have 
heard regarding your initiative are indeed unfounded. 
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  our  colleagues  on 
their appointment to the group and look forward to the 
results of their work.
The  work  of  the  advisory  group  could  provide 
much needed momentum. In our view, which is shared 
by many here in this Hall, the most useful product of 
your initiative, Mr. President, would be an operational 
text that would enable Chairman Tanin to resume the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  on  that  basis. 
Let us be honest. Despite the most laudable efforts of 
Chairman  Tanin,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process has thus far been a negotiations process only in 
name, not in substance.
Of course differences exist among Member States 
on  the  content  of  the  reform.  But,  frankly,  that  is  no 
excuse for not being able to agree on one simple aspect, 
namely,  to  finally  start  true  and  genuine  text-based 
negotiations, as we are used to doing on a daily basis in 
the General Assembly and its Main Committees.
We  hear  calls  for  compromise  and  flexibility. 
However,  at  the  same  time,  no  such  flexibility  or 
willingness to compromise is forthcoming from those 
who call for that flexibility when it comes to allowing 
negotiations to start. That runs counter to the normal 
processes  of  the  Organization  and  the  basic  logic  of 
multilateral diplomacy.
We  have  said  repeatedly  that  we  stand  ready  to 
actively contribute to genuine negotiations in a spirit of 
flexibility. Let us start a negotiations process whereby 
we can identify the common ground and see if and how 
the  positions  of  Member  States  evolve.  Let  us  finally 
engage  in  real  give-and-take  negotiations  on  this 
important issue.
To summarize, there has been enough talk. Let us 
see some action. Germany stands ready to contribute.
13-55224
29/30
A/68/PV.46 
07/11/2013
I wish, Mr. President, to thank you once again for 
your  important  initiative  and  for  giving  the  issue  of 
Security Council reform the attention that it deserves. 
If anything, today’s debate will make clear to everyone 
where Member States stand on the issue. Are they part 
of the broad majority that wants progress or part of the 
blocking minority that is eager to maintain the status 
quo?
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
30/30 
13-55224
