United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
15th plenary meeting
Friday, 27 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.15
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
and  for  the  commitment  he  has  manifested  to  the 
welfare of humanity, particularly of the third world.
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
Address by Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of 
the Republic of the Gambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of the 
Gambia.
Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of the Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Al  Hadji  Yahya  Jammeh, 
President of the Republic of the Gambia, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Jammeh: We praise the almighty Allah 
for  making  possible  yet  again  this  gathering  of  world 
leaders.  I  would  like  to  congratulate  President  Ashe 
on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. His impeccable credentials 
and  extensive  experience 
in  multilateralism  will 
undoubtedly enrich the debates and proceedings of this 
session. He has the full support of my delegation. In the 
same vein, I wish also to pay tribute to his predecessor, 
Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his  sterling  leadership  during 
the  sixty-seventh  session.  Our  special  thanks  go  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  stewardship 
I take this opportunity also to convey our heartfelt 
condolences to the President, the Government and the 
people  of  Kenya,  who  have  suffered  one  of  the  most 
heinous crimes against humanity. Our hearts go out to 
the families of the victims. This is a clear manifestation 
of  the  fact  that  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  cannot  be 
accepted.  This  also  has  nothing  to  do  with  our  noble 
religion, Islam.
As  we  gather  for  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the 
Assembly, we must pause and take stock of our collective 
record  in  responding  to  the  many  different  global 
challenges with which mankind has had to grapple. Our 
global  body,  the  United  Nations,  has  indeed  adopted 
countless  resolutions,  which,  if  implemented  to  the 
letter, would have made the world a much better place 
for  the  whole  of  mankind  and,  indeed,  for  all  other 
creatures on our planet.
Unfortunately,  some  Member  States  continue  to 
disregard  resolutions  necessary  for  the  maintenance 
of  world  peace  and  even  question  or  disregard  with 
impunity  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Assembly.  The 
United  Nations  continues  to  be  incapacitated  as  a 
result.  This  certainly  calls  for  an  assessment  of  its 
strengths  and  weaknesses,  with  a  view  to  rendering 
it  more  effective.  Civil  strife  and  terrorism  caused 
by  the  negative  behaviour  of  some  world  Powers  are 
undermining  human  security  and  even  the  viability 
of  States.  Poverty,  hunger  and  disease  still  decimate 
countless communities, while our capacity to respond 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48784 (E)
*1348784*
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
these  man-made  humanitarian  crises  remains 
to 
discriminatory and inadequate.
This is demonstrated yet again in the case of Syria. 
We  believe  that  this  Organization  was  established  in 
the first place to find lasting solutions for peace and the 
protection of human life. Informed and honest decisions 
should be made instead of those driven by the interests of 
a few self-appointed gods, thereby causing irreparable 
damage to the social fabric and economies of countries 
in conflict. My Government supports the view that the 
regional organizations in the Middle East should take 
the  lead  in  the  negotiations  towards  the  resolution  of 
the crisis in Syria. The tragedy unfolding in Syria has 
become  a  scar  on  our  conscience  as  civilized  people, 
and that war must be stopped by any means necessary.
All that we hear is the talk about chemical weapons 
and the need to ensure that they are not used by anyone. 
This does not make any sense as long as this barbaric 
war lasts. Whether or not chemical weapons are used, 
thousands  of  people  will  continue  to  die  in  the  most 
horrific  manner.  It  is  the  same  horrific  and  senseless 
death in both cases, and our duty is not to choose which 
form of death is acceptable and which not. Our duty is 
to stop the senseless and barbaric killings in Syria. We, 
the  United  Nations,  must  end  that  war  immediately; 
otherwise the people of Syria will continue to perish at 
the hands of satanic and sadistic forces. The Security 
Council  and  all  the  Powers  behind  the  war  in  Syria 
must not only prevent the use of chemical weapons but 
must  also  bring  this  brutal  war  to  an  immediate  end 
without preconditions. The Syrian war must be stopped 
and stopped now.
The 2013 report on Africa’s performance towards 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  reveals  mixed  results.  Africa’s  substantial 
progress  towards  many  goals,  targets  and  indicators 
is  beyond  doubt,  but  serious  challenges  still  remain, 
especially in translating economic growth into decent 
job  opportunities,  improving  service  delivery  and 
minimizing  income,  gender  and  spatial  inequalities. 
Violent  conflicts  and  economic  shocks 
in  some 
countries,  as  well  as  unprecedented  natural  disasters 
over  the  decade  induced  by  climate  change,  have 
caused  setbacks  in  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  in 
many countries.
Despite  such  challenges,  some  African  countries, 
and  the  Gambia  in  particular,  are  making  impressive 
gains  towards  some  of  the  established  goals.  My 
Government is on track to achieve the education MDG 
target  for  net  enrolment  in  primary  education  and 
literacy  rate  among  the  population  aged  between  15 
and  24  years.  My  Government  has  made  serious  and 
informed  policy  reviews  to  prioritize  basic  primary 
education, while expanding access to secondary, higher 
and tertiary education, with an emphasis on improving 
quality in all areas. We are working diligently to ensure 
that the gender disparity gap in enrolment is closed by 
2014  and  to  provide  free  education  and  an  equitable 
chance for all to be literate by 2015 and beyond.
We  must  ensure  that  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  builds  on  the  important  progress  of  the 
MDGs  and  is  expanded  to  cover  broader  sustainable 
development  issues,  as  agreed  in  Rio.  Therefore,  the 
choice  of  the  theme  for  this  session,  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”, is indeed apt, 
timely  and 
time-bound, 
targeted and measurable global benchmarks are crucial 
if we are to realize our desired objective.
thought-provoking.  Clear, 
regional 
and 
African 
livelihoods 
country 
requires 
Protecting 
international, 
approaches 
that  recognize  and  act  on  the  overlap  of  conflicts 
orchestrated  by  foreign  Powers  and  severe  weather 
hazards.  The  Gambia  firmly  believes  that  mitigating 
the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  and  putting  an 
immediate end to the massive looting of African natural 
resources by Western multinational companies call for 
a timely and decisive global response. It is a challenge 
that  should  unite  us,  not  divide  us.  The  Gambia  is  of 
the firm opinion that Africa should play an active role 
in  shaping  the  goals  based  on  its  own  development 
priorities and common interests.
The greatest threats to human existence are basically 
three and are a consequence of human behaviours which 
are ungodly attributes. They are: excessive greed, and 
therefore  addiction  to  accumulating  material  wealth 
by  any  means,  mostly  through  violent  or  immoral 
schemes;  an  obsession  with  world  domination  by  any 
means, including the resolve to use nuclear, biological 
and chemical weapons to achieve that fanciful dream; 
and homosexuality in all its forms and manifestations, 
which, though very evil, anti-human and anti-Allah, is 
being promoted as a human right by some Powers.
None  of  the  three  threats,  which  are  more  deadly 
than  all  natural  disasters  put  together,  has  anything 
to  do  with  climate  change.  The  first  led  not  only 
to  colonization  and  the  plundering  of  African  and 
Asian  human  and  material  resources  but  also  to  two 
devastating  wars  among  the  Western  Powers,  which 
2/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
were  unfortunately  wrongly  termed  “world”  wars. 
Colonialism  was  maintained  by  subjugation  and 
massive  looting  of  resources  in  the  colonies,  leading 
to  the  impoverishment  and  destitution  of  hundreds  of 
millions of colonial subjects.
From  the  thirteenth  century  until  the  middle  part 
of the twentieth century, the notions of human rights, 
good  governance  and  democracy  were  philosophies 
forbidden  to  Africans.  Any  African  under  a  colonial 
Government  who  advocated  for  them  ended  up  either 
at the gallows, in a mass grave or rotting in colonialist-
built  dungeons  called  prisons.  This  was  during  the 
colonial  era,  when  the  African  continent  was  treated 
like an abandoned game park and Africans were treated 
worse than animals.
fighting 
for  our 
Today,  after 
freedom  and 
liberating  our  continent,  we  are  being  prescribed  a 
new  religion  —  democracy,  human  rights  and  good 
governance  —  by  descendants  of  the  same  colonial 
Powers.  Present-day  Africans  cannot  be  hoodwinked 
by anyone, any more, and we are determined to defend 
our  independence  and  dignity,  and  to  take  control  of 
our own natural resources at any cost and by any means 
necessary.
In regard to the second threat, the obsession with 
world  domination,  we  are  seeing  the  unprecedented 
development of deadly nuclear, biological and chemical 
weapons, as well as other weapons of mass murder, by 
the same Powers. We all agree that all forms of human 
tragedy and catastrophe emanate from the West. They 
have spent more money on killer technologies than on 
medical and agricultural technology up to today. If they 
unleash a third world war, God forbid, that would put an 
end to human existence on planet Earth, including the 
United Nations itself.
As for the third threat, we know for a fact that all 
living  things  need  to  reproduce  for  posterity.  They 
become  extinct  when  they  can  no  longer  reproduce. 
Therefore,  the  Assembly  will  all  agree  with  me  that 
any person promoting the end of human reproduction 
must be promoting human extinction. Could it be called 
promoting  human  rights  when  one  advocates  for  a 
definitive end to human reproduction and procreation? 
Those  who  promote  homosexuality  want  to  put  an 
end  to  human  existence.  It  is  becoming  an  epidemic, 
and  we  Muslims  and  Africans  will  fight  against  such 
behaviour in our countries. We will never accept it. We 
want a brighter future for humankind and the continued 
existence  of  humankind  on  the  planet;  therefore,  we 
will  never  tolerate  any  agenda  that  clearly  calls  for 
human extinction.
Peace  and  security  are  inextricably  linked  to 
development.  The  Gambia  continues  to  abide  by 
and  live  by  that  principle,  which  has  warranted 
my  Government’s  relentless  commitment  to  peace 
initiatives under the auspices of the African Union and 
the Economic Community of West African States, one 
of  which  successfully  culminated  in  a  democratically 
elected Government in Mali a few weeks ago. I seize 
the opportunity, therefore, to congratulate the brotherly 
people of Mali for giving peace a chance by electing a 
Government through democratic means.
With more concerted efforts through consultations 
and  dialogue,  we  shall  also  soon  witness  a  lasting 
solution to the political impasse in Guinea-Bissau. I am 
also happy with the work currently being undertaken by 
the African Union High-Level Panel for Egypt, which 
seeks  to  achieve  an  inclusive  and  peaceful  transition 
through  dialogue,  compromise,  reconciliation  and 
tolerance.  My  Government  will  continue  to  use  its 
membership in the Peace and Security Council of the 
African Union to propose peaceful measures that will 
facilitate enhanced engagements aimed at achieving the 
desired results in our common quest for lasting stability 
in the African continent.
However, the present trends across the world cast 
serious  doubts  about  the  effectiveness  of  the  conflict 
-prevention  and  management  mechanisms  adopted 
by  regional  organizations  and,  most  importantly, 
the  United  Nations.  Instead  of  acting  as  an  effective 
mechanism  for  conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  as 
well as advancing global security, the Security Council 
has  become  a  barrier  to  progress,  peace  and  security 
in  some  instances  where  lopsided  decisions  can  only 
be  classified  as  racist  and  misguided  and  therefore 
unacceptable.
Africa’s legitimate quest for full representation on 
the Security Council continues to be a strong warning 
that  needs  to  be  urgently  heeded.  International  peace 
and  security  are  the  business  of  all,  and  Africa,  a 
continent  whose  resources,  ranging  from  material  to 
human, have helped to bail the West out of poverty to 
reach  affluence  from  the  thirteenth  century  up  until 
today,  cannot  be  expected  to  continue  to  play  second 
fiddle  in  the  Security  Council  or  in  any  international 
organization from now on. The Gambia remains resolute 
in  its  stance  that  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
membership categories of the Security Council should 
13-48784
3/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
be  equitably  distributed  regionally  and  expanded  to 
conform to current geopolitical realities. The Gambia 
stands by Africa’s demand for two permanent seats as 
well as two non-permanent seats, as clearly articulated 
in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
How 
the 
long  will 
international  community 
continue to ignore the legitimate right and aspirations 
of a continent of 53 States, all members of the General 
Assembly?  The  calls  have  been  very  loud  and  very 
clear,  but  some  Western  Powers  continue  to  ignore 
them. That must end, or the Assembly will see a very 
dignified, determined and independent Africa assert its 
legitimate rights worldwide in its own way.
My delegation strongly condemns the application of 
unilateral and degrading coercive measures as a means 
of  settling  disputes.  Such  measures  have  an  adverse 
impact  on  the  lives  of  innocent  people,  who  lack  any 
means of defending their legitimate sovereignty in the 
face of massive military might. We find the continued 
application of such measures against the peace-loving 
people  of  Cuba  to  be  inhumane  and  unjust  and  a 
blatant  violation  of  the  basic  human  rights  tenets  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which,  ironically, 
were promulgated to prevent such behaviour in the first 
place.
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the  Gambia  shares  the 
views expressed by the international community in its 
continued unequivocal opposition to the United States 
of  America’s  sanctions  against  Cuba.  The  embargo 
against  Cuba  contravenes  the  fundamental  principles 
of  international  law,  international  humanitarian  law, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms  and 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States, 
violating  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and  the 
principles  of  non-intervention  and  non-interference 
in  the  domestic  affairs  of  other  Member  States.  The 
embargo has no legitimate or moral justification, given 
the fact that it continues to undermine the fundamental 
basic  rights 
the 
development  aspirations  of  the  Cuban  people.  As  a 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community, 
the  Gambia  therefore  joins  other  Member  States  in 
calling for the immediate repeal of laws, measures or 
policies that impede the free flow of international trade 
and navigation against Cuba.
to  economic  emancipation  and 
We also reiterate our call for a serious and decisive 
reassessment  of  our  policy  towards  the  Republic 
of  China  on  Taiwan.  The  concerns  of  the  23  million 
hard-working  and  peace-loving  people  of  that  great 
country continue to be ignored. The Republic of China 
on  Taiwan  has  a  democratically  elected  Government, 
which is the only legitimate Government that defends 
the interests of the people of Taiwan in the conduct of 
world affairs and in its many serious interactions with 
each  and  every  nation  of  the  world.  The  Taiwanese 
people have the same concerns as all of us with regard 
to  global  problems.  Yet  they  are  not  a  member  of  the 
vital organs of the global body to contribute their share 
in the search for solutions to those problems.
The situation in the occupied Palestinian territory 
remains  pathetic  as  a  result  of  decades  of  collective 
punishment,  fraught  with  the  glaringly  degrading 
and  inhumane  treatment  of  innocent  civilians  and 
the  gross  denial  of  access  to  humanitarian  assistance 
and basic services, and essential medical supplies and 
construction  materials,  which  has  become  the  daily 
rule rather than the exception for the Palestinians. The 
pattern and frequency of those human rights abuses, as 
well as the disproportionate use of force perpetrated by 
the occupying Power, continues unabated.
The Gambia is of the conviction that the ongoing 
seizure of Palestinian lands and properties to make way 
for illegal settlement activity is morally and politically 
unacceptable. Such uncalled-for behaviour on the part 
of  Israel  is  in  blatant  disregard  for  international  law 
and  casts  serious  doubt  on  Israel’s  intention  to  seek 
genuine and lasting peace with its brothers and sisters, 
the  Palestinian  people.  How  can  the  international 
community and the United Nations continue to watch 
such  glaring  injustice  and  protracted  human  rights 
abuses in silence, without feeling an iota of guilt for not 
taking bold and appropriate steps to bring them to an 
end? How long should we allow such blatant disregard 
for international law to continue unpunished?
While  we  welcome  the  resumption  of  peace  talks 
between  Israel  and  Palestine,  we  hope  that  this  time 
around  the  brokers  will  be  decent  and  honest  enough 
to  ensure  that  both  sides  are  genuinely  committed  to 
a  two-State  solution  that  would  eventually  usher  in 
permanent peace and security in the Middle East and 
beyond.
We 
in  a  world  of  new  and  evolving 
threats — threats that could not have been anticipated 
when the United Nations was founded in 1945. Unilateral 
bullying and the criminal invasion of resource-endowed 
sovereign  States  under  the  pretext  of  strengthening 
democratization,  combined  with  terrorism,  organized 
crime, poverty and disease, will remain a serious threat 
live 
4/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
to  global  peace  and  security  unless  appropriate  steps 
are  taken  to  eradicate  them.  Meeting  such  challenges 
today  calls  for  sincerity  and  honesty  to  mount  well-
coordinated and concerted global efforts.
The  Gambia  firmly  believes  that  socioeconomic 
development  and  respect  for  the  sovereign  rights 
of  countries  to  control  their  own  natural  resources, 
especially  minerals,  should  be  the  collective  line 
of  defence  for  a  collective  global  security  system 
that  takes  the  sovereignty  of  each  nation  seriously. 
Combating  poverty  will  not  only  save  millions  of 
lives  but  also  strengthen  States’  capacities  to  combat 
terrorism,  organized  crime  and  intra-State  conflict. 
We need renewed and genuine global partnerships and 
commitments that are binding and based on respect for 
the sovereign right of each individual State to choose 
a way of life that is based on its religious and cultural 
values, as no administrative system is better than the 
way prescribed by the almighty Allah.
It is also necessary to increase the credibility and 
effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council  by  making  sure 
that  selective  justice  is  abandoned  and  rejected  by 
all  Members  of  the  United  Nations  family.  From  all 
indications,  there  is  an  imperative  need  to  inject  new 
ideas  and  impetus  into  the  Security  Council  and  to 
expand  its  membership  to  reflect  current  geopolitical 
realities.  Moreover,  respect  for  the  principle  of  equal 
sovereign rights of peoples and the need to promote and 
respect peaceful relations among all States, rich or poor, 
black or white, should be the overriding considerations 
for the peaceful coexistence of Member States — that 
is,  if  2015  and  beyond  is  to  bequeath  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous  world  to  future  generations  of  the  human 
race.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of the Gambia for the statement he has just made.
Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of the Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Tupou VI, King  of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of 
Tonga.
King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom of Tonga, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Majesty  King  Tupou  VI,  King  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Tonga,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
this 
is  my  first 
King  Tupou  VI:  As 
time 
addressing  the  General  Assembly  as  Head  of  State,  I 
wish  to  sincerely  congratulate  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  assure  him  that  the  Tongan 
delegation  will  be  fully  supportive  and  cooperative 
under his very able leadership. I also wish to commend 
the  stewardship  of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
during the sixty-seventh session. I express my gratitude 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his persevering 
guidance and energetic leadership in further enhancing 
the profile and work of the United Nations in the face of 
unprecedented global challenges.
Tonga  welcomes  the  timely  theme  for  the  general 
debate, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting the 
stage”, and the inclusion of a set of six thematic issues of 
focus for high-level events and thematic debates during 
the  sixty-eighth  session.  Indeed,  Tonga  joins  other 
small island developing States (SIDS) in affirming that 
priorities  in  the  outline  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  should,  with  increased  cooperation  among 
Member States, reflect the outcome of the 2014 Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States, to be convened in Samoa.
Tonga supports the proposed high-level event that 
would  address  the  needs  of  women,  youth  and  civil 
society and contribute to development goals. It applauds 
the high-level event on the contribution of human rights 
and the rule of law to the post-2015 framework and hails 
the twentieth anniversary of the Vienna Conference on 
Human  Rights.  Earlier  this  year,  Tonga  submitted  its 
second  universal  periodic  review,  which  was  adopted 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The  next  review  for 
Tonga is scheduled for 2017-2018.
including 
The  high-level  event,  centring  on  South-South 
and 
information 
triangular  cooperation, 
and  communication  technology,  is  appreciated  as 
adding value to the realization of development targets. 
Tonga  hosted  the  annual  Pacific  Islands  Chapter  of 
the Internet Conference earlier this month to celebrate 
the  emergence  of  high-speed  Internet  connectivity  in 
Tonga.  The  Conference  showcased  the  achievements 
of  the  Pacific  region  in  accessing  opportunities  for 
Internet  users  and  demonstrated  how  Tonga  can  best 
13-48784
5/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
develop its own investment strategy for the new cable 
submarine Internet system.
may  be  shared  by  all  regional  groups  of  the  United 
Nations.
The thematic debate on partnership deserves high 
praise,  in  particular  with  the  aforementioned  Samoa 
Conference  focusing  on  the  overarching  theme  of  the 
sustainable  development  of  small  island  developing 
States  through  genuine  and  durable  partnership.  The 
second thematic debate, on the establishment of stable 
and  peaceful  societies,  is  also  welcome,  given  the 
current chaos we are experiencing in the international 
community.  The  third  thematic  debate,  on  the  roles 
of water, sanitation and sustainable energy, is equally 
crucial  to  the  development  agenda  for  the  post-2015 
period.
Energy is the golden thread that connects economic 
growth,  increased  social  equity  and  an  environment 
that  allows  the  world  to  thrive.  Sustainable  energy  is 
central in order to reach the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), including many development goals that 
extend  far  beyond  the  energy  sector  —  eradicating 
poverty;  increasing  food  production;  providing  clean 
water;  improving  public  health;  enhancing  education; 
creating  economic  opportunity;  and  empowering 
women  —  as  well  as  an  integral  part  of  creating 
sustainable  development, 
including  environmental 
sustainability. A shift towards more sustainable energy 
sources  is  also  essential  in  addressing  environmental 
sustainability while tackling climate-change challenges.
The concept of establishing a Pacific Regional Data 
Repository for Sustainable Energy for All is aimed at 
focusing  on  all  energy-related  projects  to  be  sourced, 
including  all  projects  implemented  in  the  Pacific, 
reflecting best practices as well as those that have not 
been so successful.
The  lack  of  bankable  data  in  the  region  causes  a 
disconnect from the true value of assistance from our 
development  partners,  whereby  60  per  cent  of  project 
financing  is  absorbed  by  technical  assistance,  pilot 
projects, pre-feasibility studies and only 40 per cent, and 
in some cases less, on hardware. The Pacific Regional 
Data Repository for Sustainable Energy for All has an 
ambitious goal of implementation whereby the Pacific 
small  island  developing  States,  with  the  assistance 
of  their  developing  partners,  will  gift  to  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  to  be  held  in  2014  in  Samoa,  a  documented 
process under which this has been achieved and which 
I  therefore  urge  all  relevant  stakeholders  to  work 
together to develop and establish a common global goal 
on  sustainable  energy  for  all  as  part  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
A  set  of  related  targets  and  indicators  supporting 
the  goal  should  encompass  all  three  dimensions  of 
sustainable  development.  The  three  objectives  of  the 
Sustainable  Energy  for  All  Initiative  —  universal 
energy  access,  increased  efficiency  and  renewable 
energy —  can  provide  a  solid  framework  to  build  on 
further, while keeping them fully adaptable to different 
circumstances  and  priorities  at  the  regional,  national 
and local levels.
Tonga  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
laudable  initiative  to  convene  a  high-level  summit 
meeting on climate change in 2014 and joins other SIDS 
in urging the leaders of developed countries to enhance 
their  mitigation  ambition  to  bridge  the  pre-2020  gap 
in a timely and effective manner. Furthermore, Tonga 
joins other SIDS in calling for the inclusion of climate 
change as a cross-cutting issue in terms of sustainable 
development goals. Oceans are a thematic priority and 
should  also  be  prominently  featured  in  the  context 
of  sustainable  development  goals  and  the  post-2015 
agenda.
The  Government  of  Tonga  has  adopted 
the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  Millennium 
Development  Goals  Acceleration  Framework  and 
has  chosen  to  apply  it  to  MDG  6,  on  combating 
non-communicable diseases, with applications to MDG 
1, on poverty, and MDG 3, on gender equality.
The  following  five  key  interventions  have  been 
prioritized  in  Tonga  to  combat  non-communicable 
diseases:  increase  the  local  food  supply  and  create 
income-generating  opportunities 
for  women  and 
vulnerable groups; provide curative health services in 
hospital  settings,  screening  for  disease-specific  risk 
factors;  review  legislation,  subsidiary  legislation  and 
policies  affecting  food,  tobacco,  kava,  alcohol  and 
physical  activity;  advocate  healthy  lifestyles  through 
churches and workplaces; and support resources.
Tonga’s Millennium Accelerated Framework report 
is  completed  and  ready  for  launching  and,  moreover, 
is aligned with the call of SIDS for non-communicable 
6/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
diseases  and  other  emerging  health  issues  to  be 
highlighted in the post-2015 development agenda.
Tonga  joins  other  delegations  of  the  international 
community in urging a swift and peaceful resolution to 
the situation in Syria.
With  respect  to  pertinent  regional  issues,  Tonga 
endorses  the  views  expressed  in  the  Marshall  Islands 
communiqué,  that  is,  the  outcome  document  of  the 
annual  meeting  of  Pacific  Island  Forum  leaders,  held 
earlier this month.
May  God  continue  to  bless  and  guide  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  as  they  take  their 
crucial work forward.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank His Majesty the King of the 
Kingdom of Tonga for the statement he has just made.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom 
of Tonga, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President 
of the Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic of Mali, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Keita  (spoke  in  French):  Allow  me  at 
the  outset  to  convey  to  President  Ashe  the  heartfelt 
congratulations of the delegation of Mali on his election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session. His election is quite clearly a recognition 
of  his  qualities  as  a  seasoned  diplomat,  as  well  as  a 
tribute to his country, Antigua and Barbuda. He may be 
assured of the full readiness of my delegation to work 
to ensure the successful outcome of our efforts.
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  also  to 
congratulate  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  of 
Serbia, for the outstanding manner in which he led the 
work of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Allow 
me also to reiterate to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, our deepest appreciation for the praiseworthy 
efforts he has made to achieve the lofty objectives of 
our Organization.
A few weeks after my accession to Mali’s highest 
office  as  the  third  elected  President  of  the  Republic 
since the advent of democracy, it is for me a badge of 
honour to address the Assembly.
At  the  outset,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  of  my 
unshakeable determination to defend the ideals of our 
Organization, which are based on the values of peace, 
security, justice and development, all values contained 
in the oath that I swore to the people of Mali.
I  come  here  before  the  Assembly  to  express  the 
gratitude of my people to the whole of the international 
community for the invaluable support it showed to my 
country, Mali, which today has recovered its sovereignty 
over the whole of its territory. From this lofty rostrum, 
and on behalf of all the people of Mali, I pay tribute to 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  and  especially  to  the 
Security Council, which through four resolutions and a 
number of statements condemned the jihadist terrorist 
aggression suffered by my country and reaffirmed its 
attachment to the unity and territorial integrity of my 
country.  The  Council  authorized  the  deployment  of 
international forces to assist the armed forces of Mali in 
the difficult task of recovering the areas of its territory 
that were controlled by terrorist groups.
the  destruction  of 
Allow  me  to  convey  my  gratitude  to  UNESCO 
for  formally  condemning 
the 
global  heritage  sites  and  mausoleums  in  Timbuktu 
and  Gao.  At  that  time,  Morocco  was  President  of  the 
Security  Council.  I  would  therefore  like  to  thank  His 
Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  for  the  very  significant 
contributions made by the Kingdom of Morocco, which 
right from the start of the occupation of Mali condemned 
the act of aggression to which we had fallen victim, and 
offered our people emergency humanitarian assistance. 
This  is  also  the  right  time  and  place  to  thank  France 
and  its  President,  François  Hollande,  for  launching 
Operation  Serval,  a  life-saving  operation,  that  halted 
the advance of jihadists towards the south of Mali. Had 
it not been for that intervention, I would not be standing 
here before the Assembly today.
Allow  me  to  also  convey  my  gratitude  to  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS), the African Union and to the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation for their concern and continuing 
13-48784
7/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
commitment to seeking a lasting solution to the Malian 
crisis.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to  commend  the 
leadership of Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the 
Republic  of  Côte  D’Ivoire  and  current  President  of 
ECOWAS, for his ongoing commitment to supporting 
the  Malian  people.  I  also  thank  President  Blaise 
Compaoré of Burkina Faso, mediator during the Malian 
crisis,  as  well  as  Mr.  Goodluck  Jonathan  of  Nigeria, 
co-mediator during the crisis, for their ongoing efforts 
aimed at finding a solution to the crisis that struck our 
country. We also thank President Boni Yayi of Benin, 
who during his mandate as head of the African Union 
devoted all his energy to resolving the Malian crisis.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President  of  Chad, 
our  brother  Idriss  Deby  Itno.  His  country  deployed 
2,000 men in Mali, many of whom died. Our thoughts 
and  sympathy  are  with  all  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
Chad  who  died  in  Mali.  They  sacrificed  their  lives 
for Mali. I would also like to pay tribute to President 
Mahamadou Issoufou and the brave people of the Niger 
for extending a fraternal welcome to our people, which 
eased a great deal of suffering. I would also like to take 
this opportunity to pay my respects to the memory of 
all of our Nigerien brothers who died in the battlefields 
during savage attacks on Agadez and Arlit in the Niger.
I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  President  of  Algeria, 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  and  to  our  brothers  the 
people  of  Algeria,  who  have  always  stood  by  Mali. 
There is a long-standing history of friendship between 
our peoples, something that was confirmed again when 
Algeria recently helped Mali during the humanitarian 
crisis. I would like to take this opportunity to state that 
Algeria  and  Mali  are  two  brotherly  States.  They  are 
linked by a solid friendship and a shared history.
To 
the  people  of  Mauritania  and  President 
Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  I  would  like  to  express 
my gratitude for their troops, who stood by us in our 
pursuit  of  the  jihadists  who  ran  amok  in  the  north  of 
Mali for so long. To Mauritania, which has also been in 
mourning because of jihadist attacks, I would also like 
to extend our heartfelt condolences and our sympathy 
to those who perished fighting for our country. Many 
of  our  Mauritanian  friends  and  brothers  died  in  the 
Timbuktu region.
Finally, to the European Union and all bilateral and 
multilateral partners, I would like to say that the people 
of  Mali  are  grateful  for  the  wonderful  international 
mobilization to help our country, which enabled us to 
overcome the crisis, making it possible for me to stand 
here today. I also believe that the restoration of peace 
in Mali today allows us to look to the future in a calm, 
reasonable  and  confident  way.  Furthermore,  I  would 
like to assure them that the fight against drug traffickers 
and jihadists, in all their guises, is an ongoing struggle, 
one to which we are committed. I thank you very much 
for standing by us in this continuing fight.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thoughts to all 
those friends of Mali who perished on the battlefields 
to  safeguard  the  future  of  our  country  and  the  future 
of our children. There were many heroes, anonymous 
civilians, men and women alike, who suffered in Mali. 
Our thoughts are with all the injured, the women who 
were raped, those who were maimed, those who suffered 
under the yoke of barbarity, enduring endless months of 
suffering yet remaining steadfast, standing up for Mali 
despite all the intimidation rained down upon them.
It  would  be  heartless  of  me  to  move  on  without 
a  thought  of  compassion  for  all  the  families  of  the 
Algerian, French and other hostages still held by jihadist 
groups in the Sahel region, including northern Mali. I 
can assure the Assembly that we will spare no effort in 
working to speed up their release, in close cooperation 
with the States concerned, of course.
Mali  is  back.  Yes  indeed,  with  the  support  of 
friendly States, Mali stands tall, ready to turn a page 
on  the  darkest  periods  of  its  history,  one  marked  by 
nine months of grave human rights violations, looting, 
the  destruction  of  unique  historical  and  cultural 
monuments and sites, and its cultural heritage. Mali has 
recovered its sovereignty and national integrity, backed 
by its cultural diversity, and now is setting off on the 
path towards national reconciliation.
through 
launched 
A  process  of  dialogue  for  peace  and  national 
reconciliation  has  been 
the 
preliminary  Ouagadougou  Agreement  signed  on 
18 June. The transition, which was launched in March 
2012,  following  the  coup  d’état,  ended  last  August, 
following  presidential  elections  that  were  deemed 
credible  and  transparent  by  the  entire  international 
community. Through that exemplary election process, 
Malians  recalled  and  demonstrated  their  commitment 
to democracy and constitutional order. To finalize that 
process,  my  Government  has  made  a  commitment  to 
holding, without any further delays, the first round of 
legislative  elections  on  24  November  and  the  second 
round on 15 December.
8/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
As a President who enjoys the trust and confidence 
of the Malian people, I understand the huge scope of the 
challenges.  Malians  have  a  deep-seated  yearning  for 
peace and national reconciliation, as well as economic 
and social development. As soon as I became President, 
I  took  the  initiative  to  meet  with  the  heads  of  armed 
groups  from  the  north  of  the  country  in  Bamako  to 
remind them of the sacrosanct principles of respect for 
the territorial integrity of Mali and the secular nature 
of  our  State.  I  made  them  aware  of  our  readiness  to 
organize  candid,  inclusive  political  dialogue  where 
everything,  except  for  any  form  of  independence  or 
autonomy,  could  be  discussed  openly.  Our  message 
has been heard, and we will commit to dialogue in the 
future in order to find a lasting solution to the crisis in 
northern Mali.
At this point, we would like to revive the inter- and 
intracommunitarian  dialogue  to  recreate  conditions 
conducive  to  enabling  all  Malians  to  live  together.  A 
general meeting for decentralization will be convened 
to  create  the  conditions  necessary  for  an  effective 
transfer of governance and resources to local authorities 
throughout  the  country.  Thereafter,  the  Government 
will hold a national review conference on the north of 
Mali.
In  preparing  for  future  decisions  with  the  armed 
groups and in order to create the conditions for pacifying 
the situation, confidence-building measures have been 
taken,  as  called  for  in  the  preliminary  Ouagadougou 
Agreement. In that connection, it is hard to understand 
why  the  rebel  elements  have  decided  to  suspend 
negotiations,  which  represents  a  flagrant  violation  of 
the  Agreement.  We  will  have  to  discuss  that.  In  that 
regard,  the  Dialogue  and  Reconciliation  Commission 
will be turned into a commission for dialogue on truth 
and reconciliation to deal with the remaining wounds of 
war within Malian society.
The cyclical crisis in the northern regions of Mali 
is rooted in the precarious living conditions of the local 
population  and  poverty.  I  established  the  Ministry 
for  National  Reconciliation  and  Development  of  the 
Northern  Regions  upon  my  arrival  at  the  helm  in 
order to accelerate development in the areas of health, 
education and infrastructure.
to  note 
international 
community  has  understood  what  is  at  stake,  and  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  deep-seated 
and  heartfelt  gratitude  to  all  the  friends  of  Mali  who 
committed themselves on 15 May, in a wonderful show 
I  am  pleased 
that 
the 
of exceptional solidarity to backing the implementation 
of  the  plan  for  the  sus,tainable  economic  recovery  of 
Mali.
With  the  support  of  the  international  community, 
Mali  is  working  resolutely  to  address  peacebuilding, 
national  reconciliation  and  the  reform  of  the  national 
defence  and  security  forces,  to  rebuild  the  northern 
regions devastated by the terrorist and jihadist forces, 
to  improve  institutional  governance  and  to  launch 
the  economic  recovery  of  our  country.  Within  the 
framework of good governance, pride of place has been 
given  to  our  national  justice  system.  After  the  Prime 
Minister,  the  Minister  of  Justice  is  the  most  senior 
Minister in my Government, which clearly shows our 
dedication to turning Mali into a State where the rule 
of law truly prevails.
Mali  has  come  a  long  way,  but  it  has  arrived.  It 
is  here  and  it  wishes  to  play  its  full  role.  However, 
the situation that our country is facing, I must say, is 
symptomatic  of  the  challenges  that  all  the  countries 
of  the  Sahel  region  are  facing,  including  the  worst 
possible  forms  of 
transnational  organized  crime, 
including  trafficking  in  drugs,  human  beings  and 
weapons of all kinds, of which some very sophisticated 
types  have  come  from  the  Libyan  arsenals  since  the 
fall of the Al-Qadhafi regime. Despite the hope raised 
following  the  successful  military  operations  through 
the  combined  efforts  of  Operation  Serval,  the  troops 
of  the  African-led  International  Support  Mission 
in  Mali,  now  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali,  and  Malian 
armed  security  forces,  small  armed  terrorist  groups 
continue to make themselves felt in our subregion and 
to  move  from  one  territory  to  another  —  we  know 
that  they  are  present  in  the  southern  territory  of  one 
of  our  neighbours  —  which  represents  for  us  and 
the  international  community  a  serious  threat  to  the 
stability and territorial integrity of Mali and to peace 
and security in the Sahel region as a whole.
It is in that context that the United Nations Mission 
for the stabilization of Mali was deployed. That Mission 
was successful, and we wish to congratulate the United 
Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council,  for  that 
outstanding initiative.
Our  country  stands  at  a  crossroads.  Just  a  few 
months  ago,  no  one  could  have  thought  that  I  would 
stand in this Hall before the General Assembly. I take 
this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to working 
unstintingly  for  the  implementation  of  the  United 
13-48784
9/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Nations strategy for the Sahel region. We familiarized 
ourselves  with  the  strategy  yesterday  at  a  high-level 
summit on the situation in the Sahel. As a result of the 
complexity and seriousness of the situation in the Sahel, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  report  presented  in  June 
by Mr. Romano Prodi, Special Envoy of the Secretary- 
General  (S/2013/354),  which  we  believe  accurately 
reflects  the  regional  dimension  and  should  enable  us 
to  extricate  ourselves  from  the  situation  prevailing 
throughout our country.
This is the right time for me to forcefully underscore 
that  finding  a  lasting  solution  to  the  Sahel  crisis  will 
require  a  strengthened  and  dynamic  cooperation 
between all the States in the Sahel and Saharan regions 
to  fight  against  religious  extremism  and  organized 
crime. Under my leadership, Mali is determined to work 
to  give  a  new  impetus  to  the  subregional  cooperation 
mechanisms that we have. In that regard, the assistance 
of  the  international  community  will  be  indispensable 
in the fight against transnational terrorism in the Sahel 
region as a whole.
The  stakes  are  high  and  the  terrorist  threat  is  of 
alarming proportions, to the point that no country is safe 
from violent and barbarous acts. The attacks that took 
place in Nairobi, Kenya, are the most painful examples 
of  that.  My  country,  which  is  slowly  recovering  from 
the  atrocities  carried  out  by  jihadist  terrorist  groups 
and  the  allied  drug  trafficking  groups,  reiterates  its 
firm  condemnation  of  terrorism  of  all  stripes  and  in 
all  its  manifestations.  On  behalf  of  Mali,  I  present 
my most deep-seated and heartfelt condolences to the 
Government  and  the  people  of  our  brother  country, 
Kenya.
The delegation of Mali is particularly gratified by 
the  central  theme  of  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-
eighth session of the General Assembly, “The post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”. The relevance 
of that theme lies in the uncertainties being faced by the 
world today, uncertainties resulting from economic and 
financial instability at the international level, from an 
accentuation  of  the  scourge  of  poverty,  the  continued 
deterioration of the environment and the increase in the 
number of natural disasters. Just a few months ago, we 
suffered flooding that claimed at least 50 lives in my 
country alone.
Indeed,  10  years  after 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the  Heads 
of State and Government gathered here at the General 
the  adoption  of 
Assembly  in  September  2010  in  the  framework  of  a 
mid-term review and expressed their serious concerns 
about the insufficient results. It is clear at this point that 
the path to be travelled to achieve the MDGs remains 
a lengthy one. In that regard, it is crucial that we cast 
a critical glance at the shortcomings noted in order to 
pave the way for sustainable development.
One  shortcoming  of  the  MDG  programme  that 
caught  our  attention  was  the  lack  of  commitment 
regarding MDG 8, on the setting up a global partnership 
for development. Without setting up open and equitable 
financial  and  trade  systems  that  would  respect  the 
promises made to least developed countries, small island 
States and landlocked States — our Samoan colleague 
has just referred to that — and faced with a shortfall of 
assistance to those countries, we run the risk of failing. 
Faced with that situation, Mali encourages the adoption 
of  a  unique  consolidated  development  programme  for 
the  post-2015  period  whose  priority  objective  will, 
in the long run, be the eradication of poverty and the 
promotion  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
sustainability.  That  is  a  vision  that  has  resulted  from 
the pressing nature of the challenges and the shortage 
of resources available to deal with them.
In  line  with  my  predecessors,  I  would  like  to 
reaffirm here and now my firm determination to defend 
the ideals of peace, security and justice that mark the 
Organization. In Africa, Mali is extremely concerned 
about the situation in the Central African Republic, the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Egypt  and  Libya, 
and  expresses  its  firm  condemnation  of  violence  as 
a  means  of  political  expression.  Mali  welcomes  the 
progress  achieved  on  the  path  of  reconstruction  and 
national  reconciliation  in  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and 
Guinea-Bissau.
With  respect  to  the  Middle  East,  we  remain 
concerned by the ongoing deadly violence in Syria, with 
its daily lot of humanitarian disasters. Accordingly, we 
condemn with the utmost firmness the use of chemical 
weapons in the country. Mali urges all parties to favour 
negotiated political solutions under the auspices of the 
United Nations.
We encourage the Israeli-Palestinian talks currently 
under  way  and  urge  all  parties  to  take  the  steps 
necessary  to  establish  a  climate  of  trust  and  launch 
direct  negotiations  to  achieve  a  just,  comprehensive 
and lasting peace based, in particular, on the relevant 
General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. I 
10/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
take this opportunity to reiterate the solidarity and full 
support of the people and the Government of Mali for 
the  Palestinian  people  in  their  legitimate  struggle  for 
the exercise of their inalienable right to sovereignty.
I  welcome  the  measures  taken  in  recent  years  by 
the United Nations to bring about qualitative changes in 
the priority fields of development, peace and collective 
security,  as  well  as  human  rights,  and  to  reform  the 
Organization.  Despite  the  progress  achieved,  much 
remains to be done, especially concerning the necessary 
reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of 
the General Assembly. We must continue our efforts to 
ensure that the General Assembly, the main deliberative 
organ of the Organization, occupies a central position, 
with the means to implement its resolutions.
its  commitment 
Turning now to the reform of the Security Council, 
Mali  reiterates 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration  adopted  by  the 
heads of State and Government of the African Union, 
and supports the legitimate demands by Africa to have 
two  permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats  in 
the Security Council.
to 
The  Security  Council  thus  reformed  would  better 
reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  today’s  world  and 
would repair the “historical injustice” done to Africa, 
the  only  region  of  the  world  that  does  not  have  a 
permanent seat on the Council.
Mali  is  back.  Mali  now  takes  back  its  place,  its 
rightful  place  in  keeping  with  its  rich  history,  in  the 
community of free and democratic States. The Malian 
people stand ready to take part, to play a full-fledged 
role in building a world of peace, tolerance, freedom, 
justice and democracy. Malians remain convinced that 
it is along that path that we, the leaders of the world, 
will  lay  the  milestones  of  sustainable  development 
for  our  peoples  and  will  spare  present  and  future 
generations the scourge of war. That is our mission and, 
God willing, we will accomplish it.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Mali  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Khudheir Mussa Al-Khuzaie, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Iraq
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Iraq.
Mr. Khudheir Mussa Al-Khuzaie, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Iraq, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Khudheir  Mussa 
Al-Khuzaie, Vice-President of the Republic of Iraq, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Al-Khuzaie  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in participating in the current session of 
the General Assembly to discuss the vital issue of post-
2015  sustainable  development  and  the  achievement  of 
its goals, which we all hope to be able to accomplish.
Having  overcome  the  serious  consequences  of 
the economic, political and social policies pursued by 
the former regime, which were not based on scientific 
grounds but on the regime’s personal reckless whims, 
Iraq  has  sought  to  translate  what  was  agreed  upon 
by  world  leaders  in  2000,  notably  the  development 
goals,  into  practical  and  concrete  steps.  By  adopting 
plans,  strategies  and  enacting  laws  that  provide  for 
the  necessary  mechanisms,  Iraq  has  endeavoured  to 
achieve the essence of sustainable development, namely, 
the  integration  of  its  three  dimensions:  economic, 
environmental and social.
Iraq has been working on financial and monetary 
policies  to  increase  the  financial  flows  to  its  public 
budget,  which  is  expected  to  reach  approximately 
$150 billion in 2015, 40 per cent of which is envisioned 
to be allocated to the requisite investment expenditure in 
order to provide basic services, improve infrastructure 
and strengthen the Iraqi economy.
Iraq  is  expected  to  achieve  steady  growth  in  the 
economic  sectors  through  its  2013-2017  development 
plan. However, oil is still the main engine driving the 
other  sectors,  thanks  to  Iraq’s  abundant  oil  and  gas 
reserves,  which  surpass  confirmed  reserve  estimates 
by a very large margin. Estimates put the potential of 
extractable oil reserves at 250 billion barrels and that of 
gas at more than 250 trillion cubic feet.
13-48784
11/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
We expect to double oil production by the end of the 
2013-2017 development plan, with a steady increase in 
oil exports, which are expected to reach approximately 
3,750,000 barrels per day in 2015. Therefore, the 2010-
2014  development  plan  focuses  on  environmental 
sustainability and the green economy in Iraq. Strategic 
goals  have  been  identified  for  the  aforementioned 
plan  and  for  the  2013-2017  National  Development 
Plan,  which  was  recently  approved  by  the  Council  of 
Ministers, as follows:
First,  a  poverty  alleviation  strategy  will  be 
adopted  as  one  of  the  components  for  the  attainment 
of sustainable development. The poverty rate fell from 
23  per  cent  in  2007  to  19  per  cent  in  2012,  and  it  is 
hoped that it will fall further, to 16 per cent, in 2017.
Second, the unemployment rate was reduced from 
15  per  cent  in  2007  to  11  per  cent  in  2012,  with  an 
expected decline to 6 per cent in 2017.
Third,  the  average  per  capita  income  increased 
from $3,000 in 2009 to nearly $6,000 in 2012, with an 
annual growth rate of 15.9 per cent, clearly indicating 
noticeable economic progress.
Fourth,  infant  mortality  must  be  reduced  to 
18 deaths per 1,000 births in 2017. It is noteworthy that 
those  figures  fell  from  32  deaths  per  1,000  births  in 
2011 to 22 deaths per 1,000 births in 2013. The plan also 
aims at reducing the mortality rate for children under 
five years of age to 24 deaths per 1,000 live births in 
2017, following the decline from 37 in 2011 to 28 deaths 
in 2013.
Fifth,  primary  school  enrolment  must  increase  to 
95 per cent in 2017 from its 2012 figure of 92 per cent.
Sixth, the plan focuses on increasing secondary school 
enrolment  to  40  per  cent  and  that  of  universities  to 
20 per cent by 2017.
Seventh,  the  plan  works  to  curb  desertification 
through  the  expansion  of  land  reclamation,  where 
approximately 4 million dunums have been reclaimed. 
We hope to reclaim 2.5 million additional dunums by 
the end of the plan.
Eighth, 
it  also  advocates  utilizing  modern 
techniques  in  irrigation  and  increasing  the  latent 
energy of water resources by focusing on the economic 
exploitation thereof.
Ninth, it plans to minimize the quantities of burned 
gases associated with oil production by devising plans 
for full investment therein in 2015.
it 
is  hoped 
Tenth, 
the 
implementation  of  a  housing  programme  for  the  poor 
and limited-income people, 1 million housing units will 
be available by the end of the plan.
that,  by  beginning 
Eleventh,  the  plan  also  includes  achieving  self-
sufficiency  in  terms  of  electricity  production,  which 
is envisioned to reach 22,000 megawatts in 2015. That 
means  a  15  per  cent  surplus  over  peak  consumption, 
while the production of electricity in 2003 was around 
2,500 megawatts.
In  that  connection,  we  deem  it  necessary  to 
emphasize the following significant points during the 
sixty-eighth session.
First,  Iraq  calls  for  strengthened  international 
cooperation, particularly South-South cooperation, and 
we call upon the international community to fulfil its 
financial obligations in relation to achieving sustainable 
development.
Second,  we  favour  facilitating  the  transfer  of 
technology  to  developing  countries,  so  as  to  reduce 
the  gap  between  them  and  the  developed  world  and 
contribute  to  solving  the  problems  caused  by  global 
warming and climate change.
Third, we aim to address the problems caused by 
water  scarcity,  which  has  destabilized  certain  regions 
of the world, and we stress the need to determine fair 
water  quotas  among  riparian  States  on  international 
rivers.
Fourth, we want to extend special support for people 
suffering from the effects of international conflict and 
international  economic  sanctions,  which  constitute 
significant  obstacles  to  the  attainment  of  sustainable 
development.
Fifth, we intend to appropriately address pressures 
caused  by  unsustainable  production  and  consumption 
patterns, particularly in the areas of deforestation, water 
scarcity, food waste and elevated carbon emissions.
institutions;  promoting 
Sixth,  we  will  focus  on  building  effective  and 
accountable 
rule  of 
law,  property  rights,  the  freedom  of  expression  and 
information, in addition to the administration of justice 
and the fight against corruption.
the 
Seventh,  we  want  to  ensure  that  the  post-2015 
plan  is  underpinned  by  a  new  spirit  of  solidarity, 
responsibility,  cooperation  and  integration  built  on  a 
common understanding of our humanity and on mutual 
12/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
respect  through  the  involvement  of  more  participants 
from  among  women,  the  poor,  civil  society  and  local 
governments,  academia  and  philanthropic  institutions 
and charities.
Eighth,  we  will  advocate  for 
the  need  for 
Governments  to  play  a  leading  role  in  the  field  of 
education  and  the  need  to  recognize  that  education 
is  a  shared  responsibility  between  families,  local 
communities and civil society organizations, which all 
must contribute to the improvement and development of 
education and its ways and means.
Ninth, 
in  addition 
to  securing 
international 
cooperation and integration to help address the issues of 
sustainable development and the fight against extreme 
poverty,  we  hope  to  include,  as  one  of  the  priorities, 
the  achievement  of  the  objectives  of  sustainable 
development  beyond  2015  and  the  elimination  of 
violence against women, and to achieve gender equality 
with appropriate work and decision-making positions, 
as well as comprehensive economic and social security..
importance  of  existing 
standards  in  the  field  of  human  rights,  the  right  to 
compensation for victims and equity in cases of human 
rights violations.
Tenth,  we  stress 
the 
Eleventh,  we  look  forward  to  the  completion  of 
tasks by the Working Group that came out of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  on 
financing  for  development,  as  well  as  to  the  creation 
of  sound  foundations  in  the  field  of  financing  the 
sustainable  development  goals  and 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda  in  a  sustainable  and  predictable 
fashion.
I  must  stress,  however,  that  no  pre-2015  or  post-
2015  development  is  attainable  with  the  existence 
of  organized  terrorism,  which  thrives  on  the  blood 
of  innocents  and  claims  their  lives.  That  scourge 
has  adopted  extremism  as  its  approach,  death  as  its 
craft,  violence  as  its  means,  hatred  as  its  culture  and 
senseless  and  indiscriminate  murder  as  its  hobby  and 
pastime.  Such  a  phenomenon  calls  for  a  strict  and 
pragmatic stance by the entire world, so as to face up 
to terrorism’s brutal, ferocious, crazed and destructive 
attacks. International cooperation must seek to dry up 
the  financial,  intellectual  and  armament  resources  of 
terrorism, so as to save humanity from that scourge and 
the universe from its effects and dangers and the harm 
it inflicts.
We  also  wish  to  reiterate  that  no  sustainable 
development can be achieved while the drums of war 
are beating in more than one place in the world, because 
the concepts of peace, development and life cannot be 
upheld in conjunction with the will to bring about death, 
war and genocide. Nor can development be achieved in 
the absence of peace and security. There will therefore 
be no political stability or social development without 
peaceful  coexistence,  security  and  stability,  where 
human beings can rest and have shelter.
Against that backdrop, Iraq reiterates its calls and 
initiatives  for  a  peaceful  solution  for  each  and  every 
land where gunfire, bloodshed and the smell of death 
prevail, and where people witness scenes of destruction. 
That is because the logic of force cannot produce peace, 
nor can instruments of death or war mills bring about 
security or create development or growth.
Hence,  we  in  Iraq,  whose  people  have  suffered 
tremendously  from  the  horrors  of  war  caused  by  the 
recklessness and folly of the defunct Saddam regime, 
are  deeply  concerned  by  the  worsening  events  and 
tense  situation  on  our  borders  with  Syria,  a  country 
with which we have borders over 600 kilometres long. 
That  is  why  we  consider  the  Syrian  armed  conflict  a 
serious  threat  to  our  security  and  stability  and  to  the 
integrity of our land and people.
For  that  reason,  we  insist  on  putting  forward  our 
initiative to resolve the Syrian crisis politically in order 
to avoid a devastating humanitarian disaster unfolding 
in our neighbouring country and on our borders, which 
could  undermine  all  aspects  of  the  development, 
stability and prosperity that we and other States aspire 
to  achieve  in  our  vitally  important  region.  Therefore, 
I  invite  the  Assembly  to  support  the  Iraqi  initiative 
in  its  effort  to  ensure  peace,  security  and  stability. 
Otherwise,  developments  in  the  region  could  take  an 
unpredictable turn.
Our region is beleaguered by concerns that regional 
and large-scale wars may erupt or be triggered by a small 
spark. No one can guess the scale, trends, trajectory or 
duration  of  such  conflicts.  There  can  be  no  hope  for 
sustainable  development,  stability  or  prosperity  in  a 
region  that  is  already  fragile,  volatile,  explosive  and 
complex.  That  is  the  message  of  the  Government  and 
the people of Iraq to the Assembly.
In the aftermath of the fall of the dictatorial regime, 
Iraq has opted for democratic mechanisms as the sole 
means of ensuring the peaceful rotation of power, for 
13-48784
13/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
we believe in the freedom, dignity and rights of human 
beings. We have adopted an open-door foreign policy in 
our relations with the international community, and are 
always looking for common denominators to overcome 
disagreement  through  positive  dialogue  based  on 
justice and responsible involvement with neighbouring 
countries, our region and the world.
We  are  firmly  convinced  that  peaceful  solutions 
are  the  most  effective  means  to  settle  all  problems 
between peoples, nations and Governments. We reject 
violence,  terrorism  and  aggression,  irrespective  of 
their sources. Internally, we have called for tolerance, 
national reconciliation and cooperation, with a view to 
attaining communal coexistence, social peace, stability 
and prosperity. These principles were formally adopted 
by the National Conference for Social Peace that was 
held recently in Baghdad and signed with the code of 
national honour by most of Iraq’s leaders and national 
representatives.
than 
Iraq  suffered  more 
two  decades  under 
international  sanctions  because  of  the  invasion  of 
brotherly Kuwait under the previous regime. However, 
today the new Iraq has managed, through its cooperation 
with the international community and the development 
of good-neighbourly relations with Kuwait, to overcome 
the effects of the sanctions. Furthermore, Iraq worked 
with  the  Security  Council  towards  the  adoption  of 
its resolution 2107 (2013), of 27 June 2013, which put 
an  end  to  Iraq’s  obligations  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Thus,  the  crises  and 
problems  suffered  by  the  two  brotherly  countries  of 
Iraq  and  Kuwait  are  now  part  of  the  past.  Today,  we 
look forward together to developing our new relations 
as a springboard and a solid foundation for a prosperous 
future for generations to come that will have positive 
effects on the entire region.
Our  faith  in  humankind  does  not  preclude  us 
from  taking  up  the  just  cause  of  the  oppressed,  the 
disadvantaged  and  the  vulnerable,  or  from  showing 
solidarity with the just causes of our Arab and Islamic 
nation, raising our voices in defence of their rights, their 
humanity and their causes. Foremost among those is the 
cause of the Palestinian people, who are still suffering 
from  systematic  oppression  and  ongoing  settlement 
activities  that  violate  their  rights  and  threaten  their 
identity and existence. The situation requires the world 
and  its  international  institutions  to  assume  their  due 
roles  and  responsibilities  and  stand  by  a  people  who 
seek  only  the  realization  of  their  rights,  freedom, 
justice  and  independence  and  the  establishment  of  a 
viable Palestinian State, without which the Middle East 
region will remain prone to tension and instability.
For the sake of a Middle East living in peace and 
security, we reiterate the call for the establishment of a 
Middle East free of nuclear weapons, with an emphasis 
on  the  need  to  hold  the  Helsinki  conference  on  the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  as  soon 
as possible. The failure of international efforts in that 
area would adversely affect the credibility of the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which in 
turn  could  lead  to  an  arms  race,  raising  the  levels  of 
violence, tension and instability.
While  the  United  Nations  is  our  agreed  forum 
for  international  cooperation  to  address  the  problems 
and  challenges  that  we  face  through  multilateral 
negotiations,  we  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to 
reform  its  bodies,  in  particular  the  Security  Council, 
as the primary body responsible for international peace 
and security, in order to make them consistent with the 
aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  in  the  twenty-
first century and more representative, transparent and 
able to meet the challenges they face.
In  conclusion,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express, 
on  behalf  of  the  Iraqi  people,  our  sincere  thanks  and 
profound appreciation to all those who have contributed 
to helping Iraq lift the burden of Chapter VII from its 
shoulders. We wish each and every nation all over the 
world  a  free,  safe  and  secure  life  with  dignity  and  a 
promising  prosperous  future.  Peace  be  upon  the 
Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Iraq for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Khudheir  Mussa  Al-Khuzaie,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Iraq,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Manuel Domingos Vicente, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Angola
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Angola.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
14/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manuel  Domingos 
Vicente, Vice-President of the Republic of Angola, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Vicente  (Angola)  (spoke 
in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
the President of the Republic of Angola, His Excellency 
Mr. José Eduardo dos Santos, whom I have the honour to 
represent before the Assembly, allow me to congratulate 
Ambassador John William Ashe on his election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session  and  to  assure  him  of  my  country’s  support  in 
the  fulfilment  of  that  important  and  noble  mission. 
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  for  the  effective  manner 
in which he conducted the work of the previous session, 
and we salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
continued dedication to the cause of our Organization.
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking 
place in a complex international climate, one where the 
intervention of the international community is needed 
to provide lasting solutions to conflicts that constitute 
serious  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
The  prevalence  of  armed  conflicts  and  their  impact 
on  populations,  terrorism,  organized  crime  and  drug 
trafficking,  maritime  piracy,  environmental  crimes 
and  looting  of  resources,  as  well  as  extreme  poverty, 
deprivation and hunger are issues that require priority 
attention  from  our  Organization.  Angola  reiterates 
the  importance  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a 
driving force behind global efforts to maintain peace, 
stability  and  economic  and  social  development,  and 
it is therefore important to strengthen its capacity for 
conflict prevention and crisis management.
My  country  will  continue  to  contribute  actively 
in  peacekeeping  efforts,  assuming  responsibilities 
at  the  international  level,  in  particular  with  regard  to 
Africa,  as  well  as  in  the  regional  framework  and  the 
economic and political groups it is a part of, including 
the  Southern  African  Development  Community,  the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  the 
Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
and the Gulf of Guinea Commission.
In that context, the Peace, Security and Cooperation 
Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and the Region, signed in February in Addis Ababa, is 
both the most appropriate mechanism for the peaceful 
resolution  of  the  conflict  in  the  eastern  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  best  guarantee  for 
regional  stability  and  for  safeguarding  the  peace, 
security,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  reiterate  our 
call to the signatories to respect their commitments, and 
we condemn the threats that negative forces continue to 
pose to civilian populations, particularly in the city of 
Goma and its surrounding area.
In  the  context  of  global  efforts  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  we  reiterate  the 
importance of revitalizing the United Nations system, 
particularly  through  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
which should adapt to the realities of today’s world by 
increasing the number of its permanent members so as 
to fairly represent every region.
We express our deep concern about the escalation 
of violence in Egypt and add our voice to the call to the 
transitional authorities to act with moderation. We urge 
the African Union and the international community to 
continue to work towards a solution to the crisis in that 
country.
The conflict in Syria poses a risk to international 
peace  and  security,  and  the  violence  is  seriously 
worsening  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the  region. 
We call on the international community to act urgently 
in order to arrive at a peaceful solution to the conflict 
through  the  mediation  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Arab League, and we urge respect for the human rights 
of civilians.
The Israeli-Palestine conflict is one of the oldest on 
our planet and one that still confounds the international 
community.  Angola  supports  the  mediation  efforts 
undertaken  by  United  States  Secretary  of  State  John 
Kerry,  and  hopes  for  the  resumption  of  dialogue  and 
the conclusion of an agreement between Palestine and 
Israel that can convert the deadlock into lasting peace 
and  the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian 
State within the 1967 borders, living side by side with 
the State of Israel in security.
We  note  with  concern  the  poor  progress  being 
made  in  resolving  the  question  of  Western  Sahara, 
and we urge the parties to continue negotiations under 
the auspices of the United Nations, so that the people 
of  Western  Sahara  can  exercise  their  right  to  self-
determination.
Angola  welcomes  the  normalization  of  the  legal 
and  constitutional  framework  of  various  African 
countries that, after tumultuous periods of instability, 
13-48784
15/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
have  successfully  held  free  and  fair  elections  and  are 
now  making  strides  towards  building  democratic 
States,  establishing  the  rule  of  law  and  promoting 
economic and social development. In that connection, 
we  welcome  the  democratic  election  of  President 
Ibrahim Keita in Mali and express our solidarity with 
the process of reconciliation and reconstruction of the 
country. We also congratulate those countries that have 
shown positive developments and that despite unstable 
situations are working to implement agreements aimed 
at resolving crises and normalizing their constitutional 
frameworks. They include Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar, 
Somalia, the Sudan and South Sudan. We call for the 
entire  international  community  to  support  the  efforts 
those  countries  are  making  to  achieve  peace  and 
stability.
Six  years  after  the  onset  of  the  international 
financial  crisis,  with  its  grave  repercussions  for  the 
world economy, many countries are experiencing serious 
difficulties  in  financing  programmes  for  economic 
growth  and  mobilizing  resources  for  development 
aimed at improving living conditions and meeting the 
Millennium Development Goals. That situation is even 
more problematic for developing countries, particularly 
in Africa, where armed conflict and poverty frequently 
coincide.
In that context, the Angolan Government believes 
that  it  is  essential  that  we  consider  “The  post-2015 
development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  the  theme  of 
this session of the General Assembly, in the hope that 
it will contribute effectively to the economic and social 
development  of  developing  countries.  The  Angolan 
Government is of the view that during this session the 
Assembly  should  consider  holding  regional  meetings 
based on the report of the High-level Panel on the Post-
2015 Development Agenda, A New Global Partnership: 
Eradicate  Poverty  and  Transform  Economies  through 
Sustainable  Development,  in  which  various  leaders 
could  define  their  positions  on  the  post-2015  agenda 
from  a  regional  perspective,  and  which  could  be 
followed by another meeting at the global level. In that 
regard, the Government of Angola reiterates its support 
for initiatives aimed at liberalizing international trade 
so  as  to  promote  fair  and  balanced  competition,  and 
we  hope  that  the  ninth  World  Trade  Organization 
Ministerial Conference, scheduled to take place in Bali 
in December, will lead to the best results.
Environmental challenges persist. By renewing the 
commitments  to  sustainable  development  contained 
in  Agenda  21,  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  provided  a  sound  basis 
for  policy-making  at  the  national  and  international 
levels  and  for  ensuring  the  social,  economic  and 
environmental welfare of our peoples. To that end, we 
reiterate that it is essential to take appropriate measures 
to strengthen international support for actions in support 
of  sustainable  development,  as  well  as  to  increase 
the  financial  resources  of  the  United  Nations  budget 
through contributions so as to enable the Organization 
to  fulfil  its  mandate  efficiently  and  make  sustainable 
development a reality.
On another topic, the embargo against Cuba violates 
the rules of international law and has for decades been 
a major impediment to the development of that country 
and to the improvement of the living conditions of the 
Cuban people. Angola reiterates its position of principle 
that, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the 
United  Nations,  the  embargo  should  be  brought  to  an 
end.
Angola  reiterates  its  belief  in  mutual  respect 
and  mutual  benefit,  good  neighbourliness  and  the 
strengthening of regional economic integration. Angola 
will continue to respect all international commitments 
and  treaties  to  which  it  is  a  party.  We  respect  and 
implement the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the Constitutional Act of the African Union, 
and  we  establish  relations  based  on  the  principles  of 
self-determination, the peaceful settlement of disputes 
and respect for human rights.
Currently,  Angola  is  experiencing  a  period  of 
consolidation  in  its  democratic  institutions  and  the 
rule  of  law.  There  has  also  been  a  dynamic  process 
of  reconstruction  and  development  marked  by  the 
consolidation  of  macroeconomic  stability  through  the 
implementation of a national policy and strategy for the 
promotion of economic diversification contained in our 
economic  and  social  development  plan  for  the  period 
2013-2017.
By  agreeing  to  join  the  programme  of  countries 
eligible  to  graduate  from  the  least  developed  country 
category, Angola reaffirms its priority to implement a 
programme of diversification of its domestic production 
aimed at achieving balanced growth in various sectors, 
expanding  employment  opportunities  and  decreasing 
its dependence on imports of consumer products and its 
high dependence on oil sector exports.
16/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
Despite progress made in the past decade and the 
fact that the Angolan economy is on the right path, much 
remains  to  be  done  in  order  to  fulfil  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Aware  of  that  challenge,  the 
Government  continues  to  develop  programmes  aimed 
at reducing social inequality, while pursuing the fight 
against  hunger  and  poverty  as  two  crucial  elements 
for building a prosperous society and attaining social 
justice. Furthermore, rehabilitating and upgrading the 
main  productive  and  social  infrastructure,  including 
the reconstruction of roads and railways, electricity and 
water  supply  and  distribution  systems,  and  sanitation 
and  telecommunication  networks,  continue  to  be  a 
challenge  for  the  Government  in  its  quest  to  improve 
the well-being of the population and attain sustainable 
development in Angola.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  referring  to  an  issue 
of  particular  importance  for  the  Government  of  my 
country.  The  Republic  of  Angola  is  a  candidate  for 
non-permanent-member status in the Security Council, 
with  elections  to  be  held  at  the  sixty-ninth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  hope  we  can  count  on  the 
support of all the States that make up the Assembly.
I  will 
finish  by  expressing  my  country’s 
unconditional support for the initiatives of the United 
Nations aimed at building a better world for all, based 
on  justice  and  freedom,  free  from  all  threats  that 
endanger international peace and security.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Angola for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mrs. María Antonieta Guillén de 
Bográn, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Honduras
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Honduras.
Mrs.  María  Antonieta  Guillén  de  Bográn, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  María  Antonieta 
Guillén  de  Bográn,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of  Honduras,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mrs.  De  Bográn  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Government  of  Honduras  extends  its  warmest 
congratulations to Mr. Ashe on his election to preside 
over the proceedings of the General Assembly, and we 
wish him every success.
I am grateful for the honour that the President of 
Honduras conferred upon me by asking me to represent 
him in this world forum. As we come to the close of our 
term  in  office,  we  in  the  Administration  of  President 
Porfirio Lobo Sosa note with satisfaction that we have 
laid the foundation for national unity and reconciliation. 
We  have  successfully  overcome  the  severe  political 
crisis  that  affected  Honduras  during  the  previous 
Government, and Honduras now looks forward to new 
general elections in November.
The  Government  of  President  Lobo  Sosa  has 
normalized relations with the international community. 
We have secured ties of close cooperation with more than 
a  hundred  friendly  countries,  restored  foreign  credit 
and shown the world that we are a country that lives up 
to its democratic and peaceful calling. Today, Honduras 
is a member of the principal international and regional 
organizations.  Our  membership  in  major  forums  has 
given  us  access  to  new  markets,  opportunities  for 
investment  and  employment  and  helped  to  strengthen 
our energy sector.
As part of the process of unity and reconciliation, 
the  President  of  the  Republic  created  a  Government 
of  National  Integration,  with  the  participation  of  all 
the political parties that took part in the last electoral 
process.  Fortunately, 
that  participation  continues 
today and will continue through the end of the present 
constitutional term. Accordingly, I wish to mention that, 
as part of the process of healing the wounds of the 2009 
political crisis and building the future together, we have 
successfully adopted by consensus a long-term country 
vision and a national plan from which our Government 
programme  is  derived.  That  shared  vision  is  being 
implemented  through  a  major  national  agreement 
for  economic  growth  with  social  equity  between  the 
Government  of  President  Lobo  Sosa,  trade  unions, 
business owners, workers, farmers and civil society. I 
believe  that  Honduras  and  the  world  should  welcome 
those  efforts,  together  with  the  spirit  of  dialogue  and 
commitment of all sectors of Honduran society, which 
have  shown  that  collective  interests  come  well  before 
individual interests.
13-48784
17/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Today,  we  are  reaping  the  benefits  of  that  major 
national agreement. We have had successes in the small 
and  medium-sized  enterprise  sector,  social  protection 
programmes, the establishment of a transparent budget 
and  foreign  trade.  Democratic  participation  has  also 
been  strengthened  because  of  the  interaction  of  all 
sectors  in  our  economic  and  social  council,  which  is 
a forum that has made it possible for mechanisms for 
dialogue and conflict prevention to work.
We are pleased to state that our Government will be 
handing over to the incoming Administration a series of 
principles that should serve as a basis for consolidating 
social  policies.  Those  principles  were  discussed 
and  agreed  upon  between  the  Government  and  civil 
society  in  order  to  ensure  a  solid  foundation  and  the 
sustainability of social institutions in the country.
Our country and our democratic institutions have 
suffered  the  onslaught  of  external  aggression,  which 
has  led  to  violence  and  insecurity.  I  am  referring  to 
drug  trafficking  and  various  forms  of  transnational 
organized  crime.  With  all  the  measures  adopted  to 
combat  crime,  last  year  the  Government  of  President 
Lobo  Sosa  was  able  to  halt  the  rise  of  the  homicide 
rate,  and  this  year  we  have  seen  a  reduction  in  that 
rate. That has been achieved through the adoption by 
the  National  Congress  of  an  entirely  new  legal  and 
institutional framework, which was lacking before. We 
have  undertaken  a  reform  of  the  security  and  justice 
system. For the first time, we have adopted procedures 
to  certify  judicial  officials,  using  confidence-testing 
measures.  We  have  also  adopted  a  tax  to  strengthen 
citizen safety. To the extent possible, we are providing 
training  for  the  security  and  defence  institutions.  We 
have implemented a national policy to prevent violence 
against children and youth, and we have promoted and 
protected human rights.
And  yet,  while  halting  the  spiral  of  violence  is  a 
positive sign, it is insufficient, given the high level of 
criminal activity that had been reached. Our commitment 
to combat crime will be upheld until the very last day of 
our mandate. However, it is very important to sustain 
those efforts. The new Government will have to do so 
with a firm hand. It will have to continue to strengthen 
security and justice institutions, which is a medium- to 
long-term task. Combating global crime requires a more 
decisive and more effective international and regional 
effort,  in  which  drug-producing  and  drug-consuming 
countries  assume 
the  shared  and  differentiated 
responsibility that they bear in this wave of violence.
Today,  I  reaffirm  Honduras’s  commitment  to  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the  right  to 
life  and  the  respect  for  human  dignity.  We  recognize 
that the protection of human rights is the very essence 
of  democracy.  During  our  administration,  we  created 
a  Secretary  of  State  for  Justice  and  Human  Rights 
and  strengthened  the  role  of  the  Special  Prosecutor 
for  Human  Rights.  We  established  institutions  for 
combating  torture  and  cruel,  inhuman  and  degrading 
treatment,  and  we  enacted  a  law  combating  human 
trafficking  and  introducing  a  public  human  rights 
policy and a national plan of action for human rights. 
We  now  require  presidential  candidates  to  sign  the 
human rights pact.
It  is  fundamentally  important  to  Honduras  that 
we continue working towards meeting the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  with  which  we  have  made 
significant  progress.  Food  and  nutrition  security  is  a 
national  priority  for  President  Porfirio  Lobo  Sosa’s 
Government, and we have focused efforts to eradicate 
hunger  through  various  food  and  nutrition  security 
programmes targeting the most vulnerable people and 
the neediest areas of the country.
Through  its  recognition  of  the  multidimensional 
and  multisectoral  nature  of  the  food  and  nutrition 
security issue, the Government of our Republic reduced 
the  population  suffering  from  malnutrition  by  21  per 
cent between 2010 and 2012, meeting and exceeding its 
target  for  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  As  an 
example  of  our  multisectoral  approach  and  to  ensure 
the sustainability of our programmes, I am pleased to 
announce  the  launch  of  a  Government  initiative,  the 
Partnership  for  the  Dry  Corridor.  The  Partnership, 
which has the support of the international community, 
targets those suffering from poverty and hunger in our 
country’s most vulnerable area.
Concerning  education,  I  should  emphasize  that 
Honduras has seen a significant increase in the number 
of  5-year-olds  entering  the  pre-school  system.  It  is 
roughly  triple  what  we  expected.  Our  Government 
has  been  deeply  committed  to  reforming  the  national 
education  system.  The  new  legal  framework  requires 
a  broad  participatory  process 
involving  parents, 
communities and teachers. The proposal that President 
Lobo  made  here  in  the  General  Assembly  last  year, 
when he said that classrooms must never be closed (see 
A/67/PV.6, p. 49), has led to a considerable increase in 
the  number  of  school  days  for  children  in  Honduras. 
That has resulted in an improvement in the quality of 
18/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
education, and as a nation we are very optimistic about 
it.
As  to  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women,  we  have  made  progress  in  implementing 
a  gender  equality  system,  created  with  a  view  to 
promoting, encouraging and institutionalizing gender-
equity policies and improving equality of opportunity 
between men and women. With regard to the reduction 
of under-five mortality and improving maternal health, 
our Government approved a public policy for the holistic 
development  of  infants  and  a  comprehensive  care 
strategy  for  children  in  the  community.  The  strategy 
has  been  internationally  recognized,  because  it  has 
improved maternal health conditions before, during and 
after delivery and has thus lowered the mortality risk 
and increased the number of births in medical centres.
Similarly, it is important to emphasize the efforts 
we have made to reduce infant morbidity and mortality 
associated  with  diseases  that  are  preventable  through 
vaccination;  our  broad  immunization  programme  has 
achieved more than 90 per cent coverage for vaccines 
required  for  children  under  the  age  of  2.  With  regard 
respect  to  HIV/AIDS,  our  Government  has  increased 
the  national  budget  for  prevention  and  care  and  has 
financed  almost  100  per  cent  of  the  antiretroviral 
treatment.
Concerning  the  delimitation  of  maritime  space 
in  the  Pacific  Ocean,  and  specifically  the  situation 
in  the  Gulf  of  Fonseca,  a  historic  bay  that  Honduras 
shares  in  a  co-sovereignty  regime  with  El  Salvador 
and Nicaragua, my Government wishes to reiterate its 
respect for the decision that the International Court of 
Justice  handed  down  on  11  September  1992.  We  also 
affirm our commitment to including a comprehensive 
cooperation  agreement  under 
the  auspices  of  a 
tri-national  commission  of  coastal  States,  which 
develops conservation and protection programmes for 
the  environment  in  the  Gulf  and  the  improvement  of 
living  conditions  for  neighbouring  communities.  It  is 
an opportune moment to recall that it was in October 
2012  that  Honduras  first  asked  the  Security  Council 
to  authorize  the  Secretary-General  to  provide  all 
necessary support for constituting that authority, and I 
take this opportunity to repeat our request. I thank the 
European Union for its cooperation in developing this 
zone, which has great economic potential.
I would like to emphasize the importance that all 
coastal States attach to the decisions of the International 
Court of Justice. We wish to avoid making any territorial 
or maritime claims that would distance us further from 
the big picture, which is to make the Pacific Ocean and 
the Gulf of Fonseca a zone of cooperation and peace. 
But  given  the  understanding  and  neighbourliness 
we  possess,  we  have  concluded,  based  on  equitable 
principles,  the  necessary  agreements  regarding  the 
maritime  impact  on  the  Pacific  Ocean.  Honduras  has 
already made proposals that we are prepared to discuss 
with our fraternal neighbours.
I wish to underscore the fact that our Government 
has  defined  a  strategy  for  a  governmental  transition 
for  2013-2014,  whose  primary  objective  is  to  ensure 
an orderly and structured handover, so as to avoid the 
vacuums and delays in planning that have traditionally 
accompanied  a  change  of  Government.  It  is  essential 
to  ensure  the  sustainability  of  public  policies  beyond 
the life of our Administration, so that we can achieve 
long-term planning that benefits the Honduran people. 
In  November  we  will  hold  general  elections  with  the 
participation of nine political parties, including a strong 
female  presence  in  the  election  process.  Honduras’s 
electoral authorities, which function independently, are 
making every possible effort to ensure that the general 
elections  are  free  and  transparent.  On  behalf  of  the 
people  of  Honduras,  I  would  like  to  ask  all  friendly 
nations to support our electoral process. All States are 
welcome to witness it.
I hope sincerely that, during its sixty-eighth session, 
the  General  Assembly  will  meet  the  expectations  of 
Member States, and I take this opportunity to express 
my  thanks,  on  behalf  of  the  people  and  Government 
of  Honduras,  for  the  solidarity  that  the  international 
community  has  shown 
to 
the  Administration  of 
President Porfirio Lobo Sosa.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Honduras  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.
Mrs.  María  Antonieta  Guillén  de  Bográn, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Danny Faure, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Seychelles
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Seychelles.
13-48784
19/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Seychelles, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danny  Faure, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Faure  (Republic  of  Seychelles):  It  is  with 
great honour that I address the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth  session  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Seychelles, Mr. James Alix Michel, and on 
behalf of the Seychellois people. I wish to congratulate 
Ambassador John Ashe on his election as President and 
on his guidance of the proceedings so far.
In  2014,  we  will  mark 
the  United  Nations 
International  Year  of  Small  Island  Developing  States. 
Mr. Ashe’s appointment during the sixty-eighth session 
is  highly  symbolic  of  the  constructive  role  that  small 
island developing States play within the United Nations, 
and we express our full support for his efforts to further 
promote inclusiveness and full participation.
I would also like to join all those who preceded me 
in  complimenting  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  his  leadership 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session, 
during which he stressed the unifying elements of the 
Assembly. Allow me to also express our appreciation to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the determination 
and  commitment  he  has  shown  since  the  beginning 
of his tenure of office to strengthening the role of the 
United Nations.
For 
the  Seychelles  delegation, 
the  General 
Assembly  evokes  the  spirit  of  humanity’s  common 
cause better than any other institution. Indeed, in this 
Hall,  we  are  reminded  that  there  are  no  large  nations 
or small nations, rich nations or poor nations, powerful 
nations or weak nations — simply the United Nations.
As a small island developing State, we are perhaps 
also  more  conscious  than  most  countries  that  very 
little can be achieved through isolation. Our economy 
is built around its connectivity to the world economy. 
Our security is easily undermined by events beyond our 
control. Our environmental safety is also dependent on 
many factors that have an impact beyond our borders. 
Both our opportunities and our risks can be addressed 
only through international partnerships.
As we have discussions and exchanges of ideas on 
the post-2015 development agenda, we believe that the 
experiences of our group of States provide contexts that 
can help us to design a better development model. As 
we aim to set sustainable development goals, we must 
keep in mind that, if we can sustain our island, then we 
will know that we can sustain our planet.
In  2013  Seychelles  was  given  the  honour  to  host 
the  Atlantic,  Indian  Ocean,  Mediterranean  and  South 
China  Seas  Sub-Regional  Preparatory  Meeting  for 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  to  be  held  next  year  in  Samoa. 
The  participation  in  the  preparatory  event  by  both 
the  Under-Secretary-General  of  the  Department  of 
Economic and Social Affairs and the President of the 
General Assembly was highly appreciated as a symbol 
of support for the concerns of islands. Our discussions 
there, and in the ongoing process, have highlighted the 
fact that there is an urgent need for the United Nations 
to  adopt  a  “resilience”  that  takes  into  account  the 
evolving developing needs of islands.
In Rio last year, we identified the green economy 
and the blue economy as tools with which States may 
implement a more sustainable approach to development. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  green  economy  cannot  be 
properly addressed unless we also give more attention 
to what is termed the blue economy, which is based on 
harnessing  the  development  potential  of  our  oceans 
sustainably. Oceans make up 72 per cent of our planet 
and connect our nations in terms of geography, trade, 
transport  and  communications.  We  consider  island 
nations  such  as  ourselves  as  guardians  of  that  space, 
even  if  in  many  cases  we  can  but  be  witnesses  to 
plunder, pillage and pollution.
The status quo merely perpetuates a model where 
we will consume our planet’s resources with no long-
term  protection,  while  the  menace  of  climate  change 
continues to grow as a threat to our economies, our way 
of life and our existence.
To  further  mobilize  reflection  and  action  on  the 
concept of the blue economy, Seychelles is pleased to 
be able to organize, in partnership with the United Arab 
Emirates, a special high-level event to be held as part 
of  the  Abu  Dhabi  Sustainability  Week  on  21  January 
2014. The blue economy also represents an unparalleled 
opportunity for Africa. As an African island nation, we 
have continued to call for more attention to be given to 
the  sustainable  development  of  Africa’s  coastal  areas 
and its oceans. We can transform Africa’s oceans from 
being sources of raw products for distant nations to a 
space  where  Africa’s  trade  needs  are  prioritized  and 
where Africa can better protect its oceanic resources.
20/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
As an African island State, Seychelles continues to 
prioritize the security of our maritime spaces. In terms 
of  maritime  security,  Seychelles  reiterates  its  desire 
to build partnerships to create better coordination and 
sharing  of  information  in  the  immediate  region  and 
beyond.
Seychelles has also set up a Regional Anti-Piracy 
Prosecution and Intelligence Coordination Centre, and 
it  also  hosts  an  anti-piracy  cell  of  the  Indian  Ocean 
Commission  to  build  the  maritime  security  capacity 
of  the  island  States.  The  tools  we  have  developed 
through  such  initiatives  have  strengthened  our  ability 
as  a  region  to  deter  other  criminal  activities,  such  as 
arms  trafficking,  drug  trafficking,  people  trafficking 
and  illegal  fishing.  We  look  forward  to  building  on 
those  successes  with  our  partners  in  order  to  create 
an  effective  coordination  mechanism  for  maritime 
security in our region.
As  we  consider  the  security  situation  in  East 
Africa, may I also take this opportunity to express our 
solidarity  and  our  sympathy  to  the  Government  and 
the people of Kenya, as well as personally to President 
Uhuru Kenyatta, as Kenya recovers from the barbaric 
attacks in Nairobi on Saturday.
Such  acts  of  terrorism  strengthen  our  resolve  to 
ensure that we build a shared future free of the forces 
of division and hostility. We also salute the efforts of 
the Government of Somalia in its dedication to ensure 
that forces of extremism and intolerance have no place 
in our shared region.
Similarly,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  positive 
developments  in  relation  to  the  expected  first  round 
of  presidential  elections  to  be  held  in  Madagascar  in 
October. Elections represent the path towards resolving 
the  crisis  in  that  neighbouring  island,  and  we  are 
encouraged that the basis for the resolution of the crisis 
discussed  during  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community mediation, with the support of the Indian 
Ocean  Islands  Commission,  held  in  Seychelles  in  the 
year 2012, have come to fruition.
During  the  sixty-eighth  session,  Seychelles  will 
continue to be an advocate for peace and stability and 
will urge all nations to work through the mechanisms 
of  the  United  Nations  towards  resolving  existing 
crises.  Seychelles  condemns  in  the  strongest  terms 
any  use  of  chemical  weapons  or  any  other  weapon  of 
mass destruction. As one of the first signatories of the 
Arms Trade Treaty, Seychelles also urges all nations to 
actively engage in that treaty process so as to reduce the 
risk of arms trades, which remains one of the biggest 
challenges for our region and the world.
Finally, during the sixty-eighth session, Seychelles 
will  continue  to  call  for  every  effort  to  be  made  to 
reduce the marginalization of island States, and it is in 
that context that we reiterate the call for the removal of 
the embargo against our brotherly nation of Cuba.
The President took the Chair.
Seychelles is a nation that believes that all voices 
count. In speaking out on behalf of small islands that 
are  often  marginalized  in  international  processes,  we 
believe that we have a duty to ensure that all perspectives 
are  considered.  It  is  because  of  our  commitment  to 
that  inclusive  approach  to  the  United  Nations  and 
to  multilateralism  that  Seychelles  has  announced  its 
intention to stand as a candidate for a non-permanent 
seat on the Security Council for the period 2017-2018. 
As a nation that has never served before, we are actively 
engaged in discussions in our East African constituency, 
and  we  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  engage  with  all 
nations that wish to share their views. We look forward 
to many fruitful discussions.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that our 
approach  towards  the  sustainable  development  goals 
must be even broader and more inclusive than for the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  challenges  are 
obvious:  poverty,  climate  change  and  energy,  among 
others. The list can go on indefinitely, but we believe 
that  there  is  also  a  shared  opportunity  in  setting  the 
sustainable development goals. There is an opportunity 
to  reflect  the  true  interconnectivity  of  our  planet 
through  the  adoption  of  interconnected  objectives. 
Shared objectives will lead to shared success. That is 
the conviction of Seychelles.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Seychelles for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Seychelles, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, 
Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan.
13-48784
21/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Sharif (Islamic Republic of Pakistan): I stand 
here today before the Assembly, soon after my country 
has seen a new dawn. I come to this Hall in all humility 
as the elected Prime Minister of Pakistan for the third 
time.  I  feel  exonerated,  as  my  supporters  and  I  have 
stood firm in our commitment to democracy.
I am happy to inform representatives that we now 
have  a  strong  Parliament,  an  independent  judiciary, 
a  free  media  and  a  vibrant  civil  society.  But  there 
is  no  room  for  complacency.  We  cannot  lower  our 
guard.  Democracy  needs  constant  vigilance  and 
strong  institutions.  It  needs  careful  nurturing.  More 
importantly, it is not promises but good governance that 
sustains democracy. My Government has put the people 
at  the  centre.  We  will  work  to  give  them  peace  and 
security, an environment of growth and development. I 
am pursuing an inclusive approach for the entire nation.
Pakistan  is  an  ardent  supporter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  is  an  anchor  of  peace  and  a  beacon 
of  hope  for  all  nations.  The  United  Nations  universal 
character  provides  a  forum  to  discuss,  develop  and 
implement  global  responses  to  the  pressing  problems 
of  our  times.  Pakistan  upholds  international  law  and 
promotes international consensus. The security of our 
world  is  ensured  and  reinforced  by  friendly  relations 
among nations and respect for the sovereignty and the 
territorial integrity of States.
The  United  Nations  needs  reform,  but  it  should 
be  a  reform  that  reflects  the  interests  of  all,  not 
just  the  ambitions  of  a  few.  We  believe  that  the 
Security  Council’s  composition  should  be  made  more 
representative, democratic and equitable, and its work 
more  effective,  transparent  and  accountable.  The 
intended  reforms  must,  however,  plan  for  a  dynamic 
future,  not  entrench  or  replicate  outdated  historical 
patterns  based  on  privileges.  The  role  and  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly  must  be  fully  restored  and 
revitalized. In the past few years, the General Assembly 
has regained influence in responding to challenges in 
regard to peace and security, development and climate 
change. It is becoming a platform of choice. Yet, it has 
to go a long way to acquire its full authority.
To save the world from the scourge of war, we have 
to  continue  to  strive  for  a  fair  and  just  international 
order based on the rule of law. Festering disputes must 
be resolved. In that regard, the United Nations has to 
play a critical role.
The United Nations must, for instance, continue to 
remain  attentive  to  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
and the full realization of the right to self-determination 
of  its  people.  The  suffering  of  the  people  cannot  be 
brushed  under  the  carpet  because  of  power  politics. 
As  in  the  past,  Pakistan  calls  upon  the  international 
community  to  give  an  opportunity  to  the  Kashmiris 
to  decide  their  future  peacefully,  in  accordance  with 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  issue 
of Jammu and Kashmir was presented to the Security 
Council  in  January  1948,  and  yet  the  issue  remains 
unresolved after nearly seven decades.
for 
I  have  aspirations 
regional  peace  and 
stability.  I  have  shared  that  vision  with  leaders  in 
our  neighbourhood.  Shortly  after  assuming  office, 
I  received  a  message  of  goodwill  from  the  Prime 
Minister of India, Mr. Manmohan Singh. I extended an 
invitation  to  him  to  engage  with  us  so  as  to  address 
all  outstanding  issues  between  our  two  countries, 
and  Prime  Minister  Singh’s  response  was  positive. 
Our  two  countries  have  wasted  massive  resources 
in  an  arms  race.  We  could  have  used  those  resources 
for  the  economic  well-being  of  our  people.  We  still 
have that opportunity. Pakistan and India can prosper 
together; and the entire region would benefit from our 
cooperation.  We  stand  ready  to  re-engage  with  India 
in a substantive and purposeful dialogue. I am looking 
forward  to  meeting  Prime  Minister  Singh  here  in 
New York so as to make a new beginning. We have a 
solid basis for doing that. We can build on the Lahore 
Accord  signed  in  1999,  which  contained  a  road  map 
for the resolution of our differences through peaceful 
negotiations. I am committed to working for a peaceful 
and economically prosperous region. That is what our 
people want and what I have long aspired to.
It  gave  me  great  pleasure  to  welcome  President 
Karzai  in  Islamabad  last  month.  We  reaffirmed  our 
shared goal of a peaceful, stable and united Afghanistan. 
The  people  of  Afghanistan  are  and  should  remain 
masters of their own destiny. We support an inclusive, 
Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process, leading 
22/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
to  national  reconciliation.  I  assured  President  Karzai 
that we do not wish to interfere in Afghanistan’s internal 
affairs; nor do we have any favourites in that country. 
In fact, we hope earnestly that the Afghans themselves 
will unite for the peace, prosperity and development of 
their great country.
Pakistan  encourages  United  Nations  efforts  to 
stabilize  Afghanistan.  We  will  work  together  with 
Afghanistan  for  regional  and  economic  cooperation 
aimed  at  establishing  and  reinforcing  regional  trade, 
energy  and  communications  corridors.  Our  solidarity 
with the Afghan people has been demonstrated through 
our willingness to host millions of Afghan refugees in 
Pakistan  for  many  decades.  International  support  for 
their repatriation to and reintegration in Afghanistan is 
indispensable. We also look forward to United Nations 
support for addressing other transregional challenges, 
including the flow of narcotics.
Last year, the Assembly gave Palestine the status of 
non-Member observer State. We hope that it will soon 
join this body as a full Member State. We are glad that 
the  stalled  peace  process  has  started  again.  It  should 
lead to the consolidation of an independent, viable and 
contiguous  State  of  Palestine,  based  on  the  pre-1967 
borders, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Pakistan 
will  continue  to  demonstrate  its  solidarity  with  the 
people of Palestine.
Even  as  we  meet  here,  Syria  is  in  turmoil,  with 
Syrians  killing  Syrians.  We  appeal  to  the  Syrian 
Government  and  the  opposition  groups  to  move  to 
the negotiating table in Geneva to prepare a road map 
for  national  reconciliation  and  the  necessary  political 
transitions.  More  war  will  lead  to  more  killings, 
which must be stopped. As a party to the Convention 
on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development,  Production, 
Stockpiling  and  Use  of  Chemical  Weapons  and  on 
Their  Destruction,  Pakistan  remains  opposed  to  the 
use of chemical weapons. We condemn their use in the 
strongest terms.
We  welcome  the  agreement  reached  between  the 
United  States  and  Russia,  and  supported  by  the  other 
permanent members of the Security Council, to secure 
and  destroy  chemical  weapons  in  Syria.  That  crucial 
step  has  facilitated  consensus  within  the  Council  to 
adopt resolution 2118 (2013), which not only addresses 
the  issue  of  chemical  weapons  but  could  start  the 
stalled  political  process  in  Syria,  leading  to  national 
reconciliation  and  solutions  that  are  acceptable  to  the 
people of Syria. Pakistan will support that resolution. 
Acceptance  of  the  Geneva  communiqué  (S/2012/522, 
annex) and a decision on dates for convening a Geneva 
II conference will be a big step towards ending the crisis 
in Syria. I call on all forces to invest their political will 
and capital in diplomacy to bring peace to that country.
As  a  responsible  nuclear-weapon  State,  we  will 
continue  to  pursue  the  goals  of  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  and  adhere  to  a  policy  of  credible 
minimum  deterrence  without  entering  into  any  arms 
race.  We  cannot,  however,  remain  oblivious  to  the 
evolving  security  dynamics  in  South  Asia,  nor  can 
we agree to an arrangement that is detrimental to our 
security  and  strategic  interests.  Our  position  on  the 
proposed  fissile  material  treaty  is  determined  by  our 
national security interests and the objective of strategic 
stability in South Asia.
The safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear energy, 
without  discrimination,  is  essential  for  economic 
development. Pakistan qualifies for full access to civil 
nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes  in  order  to 
meet its growing energy needs for continued economic 
growth.  By  the  same  token,  as  a  mainstream  partner 
in  the  global  non-proliferation  regime,  Pakistan  has 
impeccable  credentials  for  joining  the  multilateral 
export 
the  Nuclear 
Suppliers Group. Pakistan will continue to participate 
constructively in the Nuclear Security Summit, which 
is a laudable initiative.
including 
control 
regime, 
As a country that has suffered grievously for many 
years from terrorism, we condemn that phenomenon in 
all its forms and manifestations. Over the past 12 years, 
we have made huge sacrifices in blood and resources. 
We  have  lost  40,000  precious  lives  of  men,  women 
and  children,  including  8,000  defence  and  security 
personnel. There has been colossal damage to our social 
and  physical  infrastructure,  too.  Our  economy  has 
been denied the opportunity to grow fully. That must 
change now. I have tried to forge national consensus on 
a cohesive policy to eliminate terrorism from our soil. 
For that purpose, I convened an all-parties conference 
that spoke out unanimously against terrorism. We are 
resolved  to  oppose  the  forces  of  terrorism  with  every 
means at our disposal. At the same time, we have offered 
dialogue  to  end  violence,  wean  young  extremists  off 
extremism  and  integrate  all  segments  of  our  society 
into the national mainstream. Winning young people’s 
hearts and minds is as important as using guns to deter 
terrorism. But dialogue should not be seen as a sign of 
weakness or a tool of appeasement.
13-48784
23/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
The war against terrorism must be waged within the 
framework of international law. The use of armed drones 
in the border areas of Pakistan is a continued violation 
of our territorial integrity. It results in innocent civilian 
casualties and is detrimental to our resolve and efforts 
to  eliminate  extremism  and  terrorism  in  Pakistan.  I 
have urged the United States to cease those strikes so 
that we can avoid further casualties and suffering.
Terrorism  knows  no  borders.  It  has  no  religion 
or  creed,  which  is  why  maligning  a  whole  people  or 
a religion on that account is unfair and unwise. Islam 
is  a  religion  of  peace,  compassion  and  brotherhood. 
And  the  yet  most  insidious  form  of  contemporary 
racism in the name of religion is on the rise. Peaceful 
Muslim  communities  are  profiled  and  subjected  to 
discriminatory  practices.  Their  faith,  culture,  holy 
personalities  and  scriptures  are  under  attack.  The 
stereotyping  of  Muslims  as  extremists  and  terrorists 
must  stop.  We  must  all  use  the  influence  and  reach 
of the United Nations to avert a clash of civilizations 
and  to  promote  harmony  among  followers  of  diverse 
religions  all  around  the  world.  Terrorism  negates 
Islam’s  humanistic  outlook  and  noble  values.  Those 
who perpetrate terrorism are enemies of Muslims and 
Islam itself.
Pakistan is the largest troop contributor to United 
Nations peacekeeping. Since 1960, we have contributed 
150,000 troops, and 135 of our peacekeepers have lost 
their  lives  in  the  service  of  peace.  That  has  been  our 
most tangible assistance to the United Nations efforts 
to maintain international peace and security.
We  fully  support  the  United  Nations  effort  to 
finalize  and  implement  a  single,  coherent  post-2015 
development  agenda  that  identifies  benchmarks  for 
poverty  alleviation,  sustainable  development  and 
social inclusion. More importantly, we should prepare 
ourselves to respond effectively to save our planet from 
the ravages of climate change.
Our  Government  is  undertaking  an  economic 
revolution in Pakistan so that it, too, can become part of 
the emerging markets. We have all the fundamentals and 
human and natural resources for such a transformation. 
In the immediate future, our challenge is to overcome 
a  volatile  security  environment,  correct  structural 
imbalances in the economy and bring an end to energy 
shortages. We are building a new Pakistan with a robust 
economy. From the international community, we seek 
not aid but enhanced trade, market access, investment 
and strong economic partnerships.
We  are  creating  a  new  framework  for  change 
to  provide  equal  opportunities  and  social  justice 
for  everyone,  eliminate  the  exploitation  of  the  poor, 
harness  our  human  resources  and  restore  the  dignity 
of  our  citizens.  We  intend  to  use  education  as  a  key 
driver of the socioeconomic development of Pakistan. 
We  are  introducing  a  national  health  service  across 
Pakistan with the participation of the private sector. We 
have  also  made  the  eradication  of  polio  in  Pakistan  a 
matter of great importance for my Government, as we 
are determined to make Pakistan a polio-free country.
It  is  our  strong  resolve  to  promote  the  full 
participation of women in national development, while 
protecting their political, social and cultural rights as 
agents of change. More than 63 per cent of our population 
is under the age of 25. By investing in their education 
and skills, we aim to tap into the demographic dividend. 
Minorities are equal citizens of Pakistan. They will not 
only  have  complete  freedom  to  worship,  but  also  full 
protection of their rights to education, employment and 
political participation.
We are deeply saddened by the recent terrorist attack 
on the members of a minority community in Peshawar. 
That  heinous  attack  has  united  the  entire  Pakistani 
nation in support of our brothers and sisters of all faiths 
in  Pakistan.  We  share  their  grief  and  have  declared 
three  days  of  mourning.  The  attack  was  carried  out 
by the same elements who have attacked our mosques, 
shrines, innocent citizens and members of our security 
forces.  However,  the  attack  has  further  strengthened 
my  Government’s  resolve  to  deal  with  terrorism  and 
extremism  in  a  resolute  and  comprehensive  manner, 
as I reiterated in my very first speech at the National 
Assembly of Pakistan.
In conclusion, I wish to emphasize to the Assembly 
that  Pakistan  is  a  strong  supporter  of  multilateral 
diplomacy, convinced that it is the most legitimate and 
ultimate guarantor of peace and security, economic and 
social  development,  and  respect  for  universal  human 
rights.  As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  Pakistan  has  been  making  every  effort  to 
strengthen  the  role  of  diplomacy  to  resolve  conflicts 
and to help build States in post-conflict situations. In 
all instances, we have upheld the primacy of the Charter 
of the United Nations. We need multilateral diplomacy 
so that we continue to respect diversity while reaching 
24/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
decisions  that  impact  our  fate  as  members  of  the 
international community. Towards that end, the United 
Nations — the virtual world parliament — is our best 
hope.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Denzil L. Douglas, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Finance, Sustainable 
Development, Human Resources Development, 
Constituency Empowerment and Social Security 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Finance,  Sustainable  Development,  Human  Resources 
Development,  Constituency  Empowerment  and  Social 
Security of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr.  Denzil  L.  Douglas,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  Sustainable  Development, 
Human  Resources  Development,  Constituency 
Empowerment  and  Social  Security  of  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President: 
in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denzil  L.  Douglas, 
the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, Sustainable 
Development,  Human  Resources  Development, 
Constituency  Empowerment  and  Social  Security  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
to  extend  congratulations 
Mr.  Douglas  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I  am 
particularly  pleased 
to 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I am indeed proud, 
given  your  stellar  service  to  the  General  Assembly 
and  of  the  service  you  have  rendered  to  your  native 
land, Antigua and Barbuda, and to the Latin America 
and Caribbean region in general. As a member of the 
Organization of the Eastern Caribbean regional group 
and the wider Caribbean region, Saint Kitts and Nevis 
pledges its full support to you throughout your tenure at 
the helm of the General Assembly. I am confident that 
your expertise and skills will position you favourably 
to  guide  the  general  debate  and  the  extensive  work 
programme of the various committees and agencies of 
this body.
Sir, Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes to place on record 
its appreciation to your predecessor, the President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić, for the important contributions that he made 
to advance the work of the institution during his own 
tenure.
We begin the sixty-eighth session fully cognizant 
of the diverse challenges with which we must contend, 
and equally seized of our obligation as a Government 
and  people  to  contribute  to  the  global  priorities  that 
inform the work of the Assembly. We see the relevance 
of maintaining sharp focus on those areas that are quite 
integral to the national and international development 
agendas.  I  refer 
to  matters  such  as  sustainable 
development, the maintenance of international peace and 
security, the promotion of human rights, disarmament, 
the  promotion  of  justice  and  international  law,  and 
the  effective  coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance 
efforts.  Those,  we  believe,  are  the  core  principles  for 
informing  any  plan  of  action  to  advance  towards  the 
post-2015 era with the confidence that our shared vision 
for meeting the goals we set, will be realized.
Just  a  few  days  ago,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
attained  another  milestone,  celebrating  three  decades 
of  nationhood  with  a  very  strong  commitment  to 
maintaining the stability and prosperity of our nation, 
drawing  on  our  own  creativity  as  a  Government  and 
a  people.  Therefore,  this  year’s  statement  is  very 
significant for our proud nation. As one of the smallest 
States  Members  of  the  Organization  in  the  western 
hemisphere, we are pleased with the significant strides 
that we have made as my Government pursues a process 
of transformation for sustainability in a nation that is 
not  immune  to  global  developments  that  continue  to 
have a negative impact on its national agenda.
However,  my  Government  is  working  assiduously 
to transform our former sugar-based economy into one 
that is service-oriented, driven mainly by tourism and 
hospitality and supported by international financial and 
offshore education services and by manufacturing and 
agriculture. In all of this, we are aware of the momentum 
and 
information  and  communication 
technology  as  a  tool  that  will  assist  us  in  developing 
our national economy.
impact  of 
As  far  as  the  manufacturing  sector  is  concerned, 
we  have  developed  a  cluster  of  light  manufacturing 
13-48784
25/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
enterprises that service the North and South American 
and  European  markets  with  quality  electronic  and 
electrical components for construction, cable television, 
and the aerospace and aircraft industries. Indeed, our 
present  economic  trajectory  will  ensure  that  we  meet 
both the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and 
our own sustainable development goals in the post-2015 
development  agenda.  That  is  why  the  theme  for  this 
session — “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage” — is perceived to be quite relevant.
My delegation is pleased that at this session we will 
be reviewing the progress made towards achieving the 
MDGs as the target date of 2015 fast approaches. In that 
regard, the Secretary-General must be commended for 
his initiative. I am pleased to indicate that Saint Kitts 
and Nevis has taken tremendous strides in achieving the 
MDG 1, concerning the eradication of extreme poverty. 
Our  Government  has  invested  heavily  in  creating  a 
very  solid  and  expansive  social  safety  infrastructure 
that  has  helped  the  less  fortunate  to  lead  dignified 
lives.  We  provide  subsidized  health  care  for  children 
and the elderly. We assist vulnerable families with the 
resources  to  pursue  education  and  provide  them  with 
hot, nourishing meals each day. We also provide living 
facilities for the aged and the indigent.
My  delegation  hopes  that  every  effort  will  be 
made globally to ensure that all targets are met by the 
indicative 2015 deadline. The Millennium Development 
Goals Report 2013 provides a clear indication of exactly 
where the international community should be directing 
its focus. The world as a whole has to pay a great deal of 
attention to the MDGs that are most off track, and those 
where progress has stalled, including those relating to 
hunger,  universal  access  to  primary  education,  child 
mortality, maternal health and access to sanitation. All 
nations must therefore redouble their efforts to exercise 
the  requisite  political  will  to  implement  programmes 
designed  especially  to  meet  the  established  targets 
and  to  improve  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  in  a 
meaningful way.
We must never lose sight of the intrinsic linkages 
that exist between the Millennium Development Goals 
and the sustainable development goals, particularly in 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Both  processes, 
though running in parallel, are mutually reinforcing in 
the sense that the latter will accelerate programmes to 
meet target indicators in the former, while the former 
will  provide  valuable  lessons  for  achieving  a  higher 
degree of overall success.
linked 
to  attaining 
Cognizant  of  the  fact  that  poverty  eradication 
is 
intrinsically 
sustainable 
development, we must strive to ensure that a balanced 
approach is taken to blending economic growth, equity, 
social inclusion and environmental sustainability as we 
craft  and  implement  policies  to  achieve  development 
that  is  both  meaningful  and  truly  sustainable.  The 
post-2015  development  agenda  must  be  arrived  at 
through  transparent  and  inclusive  intergovernmental 
negotiations under the United Nations. In that regard, 
my  delegation  appreciates  the  decision  taken  at  the 
special event on the follow-up to achieving the MDGs 
that was convened earlier this week.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  should  also 
address other challenges faced by developing countries, 
such  as  universal  access  to  modern  energy  services, 
ensuring food security and nutrition, providing full and 
productive  employment  and  decent  work  for  all,  job 
skills and training, agricultural development, building 
productive  capacity,  and  infrastructure  development. 
My Government has seen the positive impact of its own 
national  initiative,  which  is  geared  towards  providing 
young people in particular with the skills they need to 
integrate themselves into the world of work through the 
People Empowerment Programme. To date, over 2,000 
young men and women have reaped the benefits of this 
particular initiative.
It  is  very  important  for  all  States  Members  of 
this  great  Organization  to  play  an  active  role  in 
ensuring that the targets identified in the post-2015 era 
adequately address the remaining gaps by the indicative 
deadline  for  achieving  the  MDGs.  My  delegation 
would  therefore  wish  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to 
ensuring  that  small  island  developing  States  remain 
a  special  case  for  ensuring  sustainable  development, 
recognizing our unique characteristics, our challenges 
and  vulnerabilities,  and  their  ongoing  impact  on  our 
ability  to  achieve  and  build  resilience.  Small  island 
developing  States  remain  constrained  in  meeting  the 
economic,  environmental  and  social  challenges  they 
face.  While  we  recognize  our  own  responsibility  for 
overcoming some of these setbacks, we wish to stress 
that in the absence of cooperation and assistance from 
the  international  community,  success  will  definitely 
remain difficult.
At this juncture, allow me to place on record our 
appreciation  to  some  of  our  development  partners 
that  have  offered  us  tangible  assistance  in  stabilizing 
our  national  economy  and  in  generally  diversifying 
26/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
the  national  economy,  in  particular  in  the  field 
of  agricultural  diversification, 
information  and 
communications technologies, development and energy 
diversification in an economy that relies on fossil-fuel 
consumption.  This  phenomenon  will  have  a  positive 
impact  on  our  energy  cost-reduction  efforts  as  we 
advance  towards  realizing  our  goal  of  a  fully  green 
economy as we endeavour to bring much-needed relief 
to our people by 2015.
The  contributions  of  the  Governments  of  the 
Republic of China, Japan, the United States of America, 
Venezuela, the United Kingdom, Canada and Cuba, and 
of the Organization of American States, the European 
Union, the International Monetary Fund and the World 
Bank in particular, have assisted greatly in that regard.
The Assembly will agree that no discussion of the 
issue  of  development  can  progress  without  reference 
to  the  area  of  health,  and  in  particular  the  chronic 
illnesses that continue to plague our societies resulting 
in  the  loss  of  lives,  thus  retarding  our  developmental 
thrust.  It  was  just  a  few  days  ago,  in  the  margins  of 
the  sixty-eighth  session,  that  I  had  the  privilege  of 
addressing a forum on non-communicable diseases and 
disability, held in collaboration with several permanent 
missions,  the  Caribbean  Community  secretariat,  the 
Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the World 
Health  Organization  and 
the  Non-Communicable 
Disease  Alliance.  The  forum  was  designed  to  bring 
focused  attention 
to  creating  synergies  between 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  and  disabilities 
and to examine how health systems can be reoriented 
and  reinforced  to  ensure  equitable  access  to  high-
quality care and thereby advance development.
In that forum, we were able to confirm that NCDs 
are  driven  not  only  by  ageing  but  increasingly  and 
alarmingly by the growing number of cases of juvenile 
diabetes and the growing number of youth incapacitated 
by accident injury. The high incidence of NCDs within 
the Caribbean also places an increased burden on our 
open economies, which are highly vulnerable to external 
shocks  and  natural  disasters,  diverting  resources  that 
could  be  allocated  to  building  quality  infrastructure 
and  our  precious  human  capital.  Indeed,  we  accept 
the  recommendation  of  the  report  of  the  Caribbean 
Commission  on  Health  and  Development  that  urgent 
steps must be taken to reverse those particular trends.
Therefore,  as  we  focus  strategically  on 
the 
the  post-
Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
2015  development  agenda,  we  cannot  lose  sight  of 
non-communicable  diseases  and  the  real  threat  that 
they pose to societies across the globe. We are therefore 
grateful for the attention that was given at the United 
Nations  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and 
Control of Non-communicable Diseases two years ago 
to the need for a global response to that problem. We 
recognize that much work has been undertaken by the 
World Health Organization, the Pan American Health 
Organization  and  other  regional  bodies  to  reverse  the 
high  incidence  of  NCDs  in  our  region.  There  is  now 
a  strong  emphasis  on  testing,  since  the  collection  of 
empirical data is key for proper tracking and analysis. 
The  preparation  of  strategic  plans  and  budgets  and 
the  incorporation  of  families  and  communities  into 
education,  prevention  and  detection  programmes  are 
all pivotal in this regard.
My delegation is convinced that the combat against 
the high incidence of non-communicable diseases must 
receive greater prominence in the post-2015 sustainable 
development agenda. It is evident that there is a strong 
nexus  between  a  nation’s  health  status  and  its  levels 
of productivity. My delegation therefore subscribes to 
the notion that a nation’s wealth lies in the health of its 
people. Our High-level Meeting of two years ago was 
an important first step in that regard, and it is one on 
which we must continue to build on an ongoing basis. 
It  is  clear  that  we  need  to  adopt  a  strategy  similar  to 
the  global  response  to  HIV/AIDS  in  order  to  achieve 
the levels of success in fighting the incidence of NCDs.
Today, I respectfully submit that there are practical 
lessons to be learned from the experience developed by 
agencies such as the Joint United Nations Programme 
on HIV/AIDS and PAHO that have touched the lives of 
millions in a positive way. It is therefore important for 
the  Assembly  to  keep  on  the  front  burner  a  practical 
strategy to address the high incidence of NCDs within 
our region and the nations of the world.
As  we  usher  in  a  dispensation  of  sustainment, 
we remain cognizant of the inextricable link between 
development and an environment of peace and security. 
Crime in any society is an unwelcome and destabilizing 
threat  that  must  be  dealt  with  promptly.  Indeed,  the 
ways in which societies are affected at both the micro 
and  the  macro  levels  are  known  to  us  all.  Entire 
societies are forced to bear the myriad costs associated 
with personal injury, psychological insecurity and the 
related health-care repercussions.
That is why we in Saint Kitts and Nevis have placed 
great  emphasis  on  effective  leadership,  clear  lines 
13-48784
27/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
of  authority  and  responsibility,  targeted  equipment 
upgrades, expanded and ongoing training, community 
policing, strengthened relations between the police and 
the  public,  and  full  cooperation  at  all  levels  between 
our national police force and our national defence force. 
As a result, Saint Kitts and Nevis has made tremendous 
strides in confronting the challenge of crime. Indeed, 
in the space of just over one year, we were able to see 
crime plummet by some 53 per cent, convincing us of 
the importance of the United Nations providing a forum 
via  which  Member  States  might  share  best  practices 
in  this  era  of  globalized  criminality.  If  the  challenge 
is  becoming  international  in  scope,  so  too  must  our 
response.
In  that  regard,  we  are  equally  aware  that  the 
socioeconomic  and  political  gains  that  we  are  trying 
to  achieve  in  the  global  community  will  be  elusive  if 
the  environment  of  peace  is  interrupted  by  warfare 
and threats to the peaceful coexistence of the world’s 
peoples.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  therefore  joins  in 
condemning  the  atrocities  that  have  recently  been 
perpetrated in Syria and Kenya, which have resulted in 
wanton loss of human lives. Such use of chemical and 
conventional  weapons,  resort  to  acts  of  violence  and 
terrorism,  and  their  spiralling  inhumane  effects  will 
ultimately  have  a  far-reaching  deleterious  impact  on 
global safety and security, which must continue to be a 
concern for all of the world’s leaders and their peoples.
More than any other time in its history, the United 
Nations must be more assertive in executing its mandate 
as a leading actor in securing world peace. Saint Kitts 
and Nevis appreciates the strides that we have made with 
the Arms Trade Treaty, and would urge that we move 
with  alacrity  to  ensure  its  entry  into  force.  However, 
as  a  small  island  State  with  open  borders,  we  see  the 
relevance  of  establishing  international  standards  and 
controls that will govern the illicit flow of small arms 
and light weapons through our Caribbean ports.
We commend the United States of America for the 
partnership  that  has  been  forged  with  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis and the other States Members of the Caribbean 
that  form  part  of  the  United  States  Caribbean  Basin 
Security Initiative, which, among other things, will be 
pivotal to our efforts to stop the illicit flow of foreign-
made small arms into our peaceful Caribbean region. 
This initiative has provided avenues of collaboration in 
crime prevention and detection as we work together in 
building  the  capacity  of  our  security  forces.  This,  we 
are convinced, will contribute significantly to creating 
an  enabling  environment  for  sustainable  development 
through  the  prevalence  of  peace  and  security  in  our 
communities.
Our  focus 
the 
is  not  only  on 
international 
dimensions of crime. Indeed, we are mindful of the fact 
that all over the world, women and children are among 
the  most  vulnerable  in  our  societies,  and  so  we  have 
instituted a clear and assertive zero-tolerance policy in 
this regard. Violence against women and children must 
be seen not as a personal or family matter, but instead 
as a socially destructive behaviour demanding judicial 
intervention.  If  and  where  this  zero-tolerance  policy 
does not yet exist, we strongly urge its embrace today 
and its immediate implementation.
Thirty years ago, Saint Kitts and Nevis established 
diplomatic  relations  with  several  countries,  including 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan.  In  the  intervening 
years,  this  relationship  has  been  mutually  beneficial. 
As  the  debate  on  sustainable  development  unfolds, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  eminently  qualified  to  speak 
on the myriad contributions that the Republic of China 
is  capable  of  making  to  the  international  community. 
While the international community is preoccupied with 
ensuring peace and security globally, we can applaud 
the Government of the Republic of China for promoting 
peace across the Taiwan Strait and proposing the East 
China  Sea  Peace  Initiative,  thereby  demonstrating  a 
commitment to peace and stability.
Taiwan is one of the top 18 economies globally. In 
addition,  Taiwan  has  worked  assiduously  to  advance 
the  economic  interests  of  countries  such  as  ours.  In 
this  regard,  we  have  collaborated  on  a  large  number 
of  key  projects,  such  as  the  multisectoral  agritourism 
demonstration farm, our high-priority solar energy farm 
and  an  information  and  communications  technology 
centre, which are all designed to advance the social and 
economic interests of my small nation.
I  wish 
to  place  on  record  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  to  the  World  Health  Organization  for 
having  invited  Taiwan,  for  five  consecutive  years, 
to  attend  the  World  Health  Assembly  (WHA)  as  an 
observer. We are of the view that Taiwan has adopted a 
very pragmatic approach to its meaningful participation 
in United Nations specialized agencies and functional 
organizations  that  are  critical  to  the  current  global 
efforts to address many issues of mutual concern. My 
delegation  is  convinced  that  the  arrangements  made 
for  Taiwan’s  presence  in  the  World  Health  Assembly, 
which have been referred to as the WHA model, serve 
28/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
as a useful point of reference for Taiwan’s meaningful 
participation  in  other  international  agencies,  such  as 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO) 
and  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change.  While  on  that  note,  permit  me  to 
commend  Mr.  Roberto  Kobeh  González,  President  of 
the ICAO Council, on the decision to invite Taiwan to 
attend this month’s thirty-eighth ICAO Assembly as a 
special guest.
Germane  to  the  concept  of  exclusion  from  the 
international trading arrangement is the trade embargo 
imposed on Cuba at the height of the Cold War, which 
today  remains  a  matter  of  concern  for  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis,  as  it  does  to  the  vast  majority  of  nations 
represented  in  this  important  institution.  Our  own 
position  is  based  on  our  commitment  to  international 
law, the principles of the Charter of the United Nations 
and  our  obligations  under  the  same.  We  therefore, 
like  so  many  in  this  Hall,  are  concerned  about  the 
extraterritorial  application  and  effects  of  national 
legislation  on  the  sovereignty  of  States.  Therefore, 
the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis reiterates its 
support for resolution 67/4 on the necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba, 
and  once  again  calls  for  an  immediate  end  to  that 
unilateral action.
As we move to open a chapter that will usher in a 
more enlightened era of human existence, Saint Kitts and 
Nevis joins with the States members of the Caribbean 
Community in supporting the very important case for 
reparations  associated  with  the  atrocities  of  slavery. 
Although the repercussions of slavery on the lives of our 
ancestors cannot be quantified, we are convinced that 
the deleterious effects, which even now are translated 
into much hardship and poverty for the descendants of 
our ancestors, must be resolved. Therefore, the time has 
come.
The world has seen more than its share of conflicts 
in recent years. In addition, natural disasters, sometimes 
caused  by  climate  change,  continue  to  wreak  havoc 
in  many  corners  of  the  globe.  All  of  this  speaks  to 
the  importance  of  us  marshalling  and  managing  very 
carefully those resources that have been placed under 
our respective control for the benefit of the people we 
represent. It speaks to the importance of us being far 
more responsible stewards of this planet than we have 
been in the past. It speaks to our working assiduously, 
whenever we can, to abate tensions and promote peace.
There  can  be  change  in  2015  only  as  long  as  we 
do  not  fail  to  take  a  bold  and  definitive  stance  in 
addressing  the  ills  that  stymie  our  efforts  to  move 
forward in achieving our goals. There will be change in 
2015 if we do not fail to pursue the priorities that will 
eradicate  poverty,  enhance  global  peace  and  security, 
find alternative means of reducing the impact of climate 
change  and  saving  our  planet  from  destruction,  and 
reduce  elevated  incidences  of  HIV/AIDS  and  NCDs. 
There  must  be  change  in  2015  if  the  agencies  of  the 
Organization  adopt  a  policy  of  equity  and  the  strong 
determination  to  execute  their  mandate  to  enable  the 
institutionalization of a culture of peace and security, 
respect for human lives and justice for all.
Let us therefore, today and forever, commit to rising 
to  the  challenge  and  moving  forward,  imbued  with  a 
renewed sense of focus, determination and urgency to 
fulfil our goals. May all that we say here bring us closer 
to that most vital and crucial of ends.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint Kitts and 
Nevis for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Denzil  L.  Douglas,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  Sustainable  Development, 
Human  Resources  Development,  Constituency 
Empowerment  and  Social  Security  of  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nicholas  Clegg,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Mr. Clegg (United Kingdom): In my lifetime, the 
world has been sliced up and labelled in many different 
ways:  East  and  West;  communism  and  capitalism; 
North  and  South;  Christian  and  Muslim;  developed 
and developing, and so on. But as we meet today, the 
most  important  fault  line  is  not  one  of  geography,  or 
ideology, or religion, or wealth; it is the divide between 
those  societies  which  are  open  and  those  which  are 
closed. Open societies choose democracy and freedom 
at  home,  and  engagement  and  responsibility  abroad. 
Closed societies suppress the liberty of their citizens, 
draw a veil across their actions and withdraw from our 
shared international life.
We must be honest — the forces of insularity and 
isolationism  have  gained  momentum  in  recent  years. 
Discrediting  democracy  feels  easier.  Authoritarian 
States  point  enthusiastically  at  the  ongoing  fallout  of 
the 2008 financial crisis — proof, they say, of a broken 
13-48784
29/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Western  model.  They  feel  vindicated;  their  citizens 
may be less free, but their growth rates outstrip those 
in  the  West.  At  the  same  time,  in  many  of  the  States 
affected by the financial crash, austerity has given rise 
to  a  period  of  introspection.  The  impulse  is  to  turn 
inwards rather than face outwards.
the first time, a Prime Minister elected by Parliament. 
Although difficult challenges remain, Yemen has chosen 
reconciliation, dialogue and democracy over violence. 
Tunisia  is  also  focused  on  building  a  new  democracy 
and  economic  growth,  with  progress  towards  a  new 
Constitution, and further elections expected in 2014.
And so a crisis of confidence has threatened to take 
hold in parts of the developed world. It is not surprising 
to  hear  some  argue  that  liberal  democracy  has  had 
its  day  and  that  our  multilateral  system  is  becoming 
obsolete. But those who make these claims are wrong. 
They  are  drawing  the  wrong  conclusions  from  recent 
events.
The  real  lesson  of  the  past  five  years  has  been 
the  remarkable  resilience  of  open  societies  and  the 
acute  need  for  international  cooperation  in  today’s 
world.  Liberal  democracies  in  Europe  and  across  the 
Atlantic have weathered profound economic difficulty. 
The eurozone did not fall over, as many said it would. 
By  working  together,  disaster  was  averted  and  the 
sovereign debt crisis is being managed.
In Europe we have maintained stability at a time of 
great upheaval because, for the most part, our citizens 
have expressed their frustration peacefully and through 
the ballot box. And where there has been unrest, mature 
democracies have managed it with relative success. And 
so, just as the events of recent years have revealed the 
weaknesses of some Western economies, they have also 
underscored the great strength of open societies — the 
ability to evolve and adapt. Open societies do not fear 
change, and in the twenty-first century such openness 
to reform is critical to lasting stability and success.
Democracy,  free  speech,  participation,  equality 
before the law, the right to peaceful protest, the right 
to  be  educated,  the  chance  to  work  —  these  are  not 
Western  values;  they  are  the  political  and  economic 
freedoms  sought  by  citizens  everywhere,  and  they 
are  gaining  force  in  every  country  around  the  globe. 
Governments  that  ignore  them  are  fighting  a  losing 
battle. Democracy did not fail in Egypt; a single set of 
elections failed. Egypt now needs to return to the path 
of inclusive democracy. The democratic urge remains 
as  strong  among  the  people  as  it  was  when  they  first 
rejoiced in Tahrir Square.
In  other  parts  of  the  region,  while  the  picture  is 
mixed, important progress has been made. In Libya, the 
General National Congress is working towards elections 
in early 2014. Morocco has a new Constitution and, for 
Yes,  these  nations  will  undergo  more  turbulence. 
That  is  certain.  Well-functioning  democracy  cannot 
emerge  overnight,  be  exported  from  the  West  or 
dropped on a country from 8,000 feet — that much we 
have  learnt  from  the  failures  of  the  past.  Developing 
the culture and institutions needed — the rule of law, 
plural politics, human rights — is a painstaking process 
for  every  country  involved,  and  it  requires  strategic 
patience from the rest of the world.
But  while  the  road  to  democracy  is  difficult,  the 
direction of travel is set. Everywhere we look, people 
are  standing  together  against  discrimination  and  for 
equality;  against  oppression  and  for  liberty.  A  wave 
of  openness  has  emerged,  transcending  borders  and 
cultures.  Men  and  women  of  every  creed,  faith  and 
colour are calling for fair opportunities and demanding 
to be heard.
The United Kingdom is clear. We are on the side of 
all those who support political freedom and economic 
empowerment.  There  will  be  no  pulling  up  of  the 
drawbridge  from  us;  no  heading  into  retreat.  We  will 
resist any impulse to turn our back on the world.
In  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  we  are 
helping States put in place the building blocks for their 
democracies.  Whether  by  training  Libyan  officials  to 
supervise fair elections, or supporting a free media by 
training journalists in Morocco, these are the nuts and 
bolts of successful democratic transition.
We are also supporting these countries’ economies 
through  our  stewardship  of  the  Group  of  Eight 
Deauville Partnership this year, leading efforts to boost 
trade and investment in the region, helping small- and 
medium-sized  enterprises  and,  crucially,  promoting 
greater participation by women. And we have kept the 
political spotlight on the need to return assets stolen by 
the former regimes in those countries.
In  Syria,  our  priority  is  to  help  bring  about  a 
political  settlement.  The  foundations  for  a  settlement 
were  agreed  in  Geneva  last  year  —  establishing,  on 
the  basis  of  mutual  consent,  a  transitional  governing 
body with full executive powers. We are in close touch 
with  our  partners  about  convening  a  second  Geneva 
30/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
conference as soon as possible. No meaningful political 
solution  can  occur  without 
the  moderate  Syrian 
opposition. We recognize the Syrian National Coalition 
as the legitimate representatives of the Syrian people, 
and  we  recognize  their  commitments  to  the  Geneva 
process  and  to  building  a  secular,  democratic  and 
pluralist Syria that ensures equal rights for all.
On  the  issue  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  on 
21  August  the  Al-Assad  regime  committed  a  war 
crime under international humanitarian law, launching 
a  large-scale  chemical-weapon  attack  on  its  own 
people — the first attack on this scale for 25 years and 
88 years after such weapons were universally banned. 
As  President  Obama  said  here  on  Tuesday  (see  A/68/
PV.5),  it  is  an  insult  to  human  reason  to  suggest  that 
the  regime  was  not  responsible  for  that  war  crime. 
The  international  community  must  react,  and  react 
in unison. That is why we hope to adopt later today a 
Security Council resolution establishing binding legal 
obligations  on  the  Syrian  regime  for  the  removal  and 
destruction of Syria’s vast chemical-weapons arsenal.
On Wednesday, I announced that the United Kingdom 
would provide a further $160 million of humanitarian 
support  for  the  Syrian  people,  bringing  total  United 
Kingdom funding to $800 million — £500 million — our 
biggest-ever response to a humanitarian crisis, much of 
which is aimed at helping the many children caught up 
in this tragic conflict.
The  world  has  raised  close  to  $1  billion  of 
humanitarian support this month, and I hope that others 
will step up and contribute. Most importantly, I call on 
all parties inside Syria to allow humanitarian agencies 
to operate without hindrance or the threat of violence. 
Unless  that  urgent  humanitarian  access  is  given,  no 
amount of money can alleviate the scale of the Syrian 
people’s suffering.
I  welcome  President  Rouhani’s  comments  on 
Tuesday  that  he  wants  a  constructive  engagement 
between  Iran  and  the  rest  of  the  world  and  that  he 
wants  to  engage  immediately  in  time-bound  talks  on 
the nuclear issue. Those are encouraging words which I 
very much hope are matched with genuine action. I am 
pleased that negotiations on Iran’s nuclear programme 
will restart in October. If Iran’s words are followed by 
concrete steps, then there is a real opportunity to make 
progress in resolving the serious international concerns 
about Iran’s nuclear programme. We also look to a more 
constructive approach from Iran in helping resolve the 
crisis in Syria, and we have made clear to Iran that we are 
ready, as the United Kingdom Government, to improve 
our relationship on a step-by-step and reciprocal basis.
One thing that would fundamentally transform the 
Middle East is a conclusive two-State agreement to end 
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — an agreement based 
on  1967  borders  with  agreed  land  swaps  that  leads 
to  a  sovereign  and  viable  Palestinian  State  living  in 
peace alongside a safe and secure Israel, a universally 
recognized Palestine alongside a universally recognized 
Israel.
I  commend  the  dedicated  efforts  of  Secretary 
Kerry and the courageous leadership of Prime Minister 
Netanyahu  and  President  Abbas,  which  have  enabled 
direct peace talks to resume. I sincerely hope that both 
parties  will  make  every  effort  to  keep  talks  going, 
including a halt in the building of new settlements. The 
international community must fully support the parties 
as they make the difficult decisions that are necessary 
for  achieving  a  lasting  peace.  Britain  stands  ready  to 
play its part.
As  we  wind  up  our  military  operations 
in 
Afghanistan,  the  United  Kingdom  continues  to  work 
with  the  Afghan  Government  to  ensure  a  successful 
transition. The Afghan National Security Forces are now 
leading on security and continue to grow in confidence 
and capability. That is a significant achievement. In the 
United Kingdom, we recognize the serious challenges 
still ahead for Afghanistan, but we strongly believe that 
there  is  room  for  optimism  about  the  country’s  long-
term  future.  This  is  a  crucial  time  for  Afghan  men, 
women  and  children,  as  they  prepare  for  elections  in 
2014, which must be credible, transparent and inclusive.
Poverty is as great a threat to stability and freedom 
as are conflict and oppression. Thus, despite the strain 
on our finances, the United Kingdom has met its target 
to  spend  0.7  per  cent  of  its  gross  national  income  on 
development  assistance.  We  are  the  only  country  in 
the Group of 20 (G-20) to have done so. Following the 
global economic crisis, we said we would not balance 
our books on the backs of the world’s poorest and we 
have held true to our word.
On Monday, we announced that we would provide 
$1.6  billion  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  That  is  10  per  cent  of  the 
Fund’s replenishment, so long as others join.
Women  and  girls  remain  at  the  heart  of  our 
development  agenda.  They  are  the  key  to  economic 
growth,  so  investing  in  girls’  education  is  the  single 
13-48784
31/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
most  effective  thing  we  can  do  to  break  the  cycle  of 
poverty. We must end gender inequality, which is the 
root  of  violence  against  women.  That  ambition  is  at 
the  heart  of  the  United  Kingdom’s  initiative  to  end 
sexual violence in conflict, and I would encourage all 
States that have yet to do so to endorse the Declaration 
of  Commitment  to  End  Sexual  Violence  in  Conflict. 
Over 115 States are already committed; we are sending 
a  message  to  the  victims  of  those  devastating  crimes 
that they are not alone and that their attackers will be 
punished.
We  have  also  used  our  presidency  of  the  Group 
of  Eight  (G-8)  to  focus  on  three  areas  where  we  can 
support  global  prosperity —  boosting  trade,  ensuring 
better transparency to help developing nations benefit 
from resources that are rightfully theirs, and cracking 
down  on  tax  evasion  and  closing  tax  loopholes.  That 
was just the start of our work on that agenda, and we 
are  pleased  that  the  United  Kingdom’s  trade,  tax  and 
transparency  priorities  have  been  fully  reflected  in 
agreements  reached  by  the  G-20,  including  extending 
the  commitment  to  resist  protectionist  measures  by 
a  further  two  years  to  the  end  of  2016,  so  that  trade 
remains as free and open as possible.
Whether it be in the G-8, the G-20, the European 
Union, NATO or the Commonwealth, or as one of the 
five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
United  Kingdom  will  continue  to  be  an  active  and 
engaged player in the world. The biggest problems we 
face are problems we share.
Take climate change, for example — the report issued 
this morning by the United Nations Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change confirms that sea levels are 
already rising and that ice is melting faster than we had 
expected.  The  report  is  an  authoritative  rebuke  to  all 
those  who  persist  in  claiming  that  man-made  climate 
change  does  not  exist.  The  United  Kingdom  will 
continue to cut our emissions and give over $6 billion 
to assist developing countries to do the same and adapt 
to environmental changes.
But  if  we  are  to  halt  the  devastating  effects  of 
climate change, we must listen to the science, act now 
and  act  together.  We  thus  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s announcement of a leaders’ summit next year 
as a key step towards all nations agreeing to a deal in 
2015 to take action to avert the crisis.
We  are  all  affected  by  the  scourge  of  terrorism. 
Whether  it  is  a  soldier  brutally  murdered  on  a  quiet 
London street or innocent shoppers gunned down in a 
busy Nairobi mall, we are all vulnerable. Following the 
recent horrific events in Nairobi, the United Kingdom 
is  working  closely  with  the  Governments  of  Kenya, 
Somalia  and  countries  across  the  region  to  tackle  the 
issue. Our global response to terrorism must be robust, 
intelligent  and  cover  all  those  areas  where  our  work 
together can make a genuine difference. Alone we can 
take small steps forward, but together we can take giant 
leaps.
That  much  was  clear  earlier  this  year  when  we 
signed the world’s first Arms Trade Treaty (resolution 
67/234 B) to better regulate the global sale of weapons. 
The United Kingdom is proud of the role we played in 
delivering it, and we urge any countries that have not 
signed  it  to  do  so.  The  Treaty  reminds  us  that,  with 
enough political will, we can come together and do the 
previously unthinkable, and that should embolden us to 
do still more.
The United Nations has many virtues, but it also has 
serious  shortcomings  that  must  be  faced.  The  United 
Nations has no greater friend than the United Kingdom, 
but it does not adequately reflect the world we live in 
today. The Security Council must be reformed. Unless 
more room is made at the top table, it will fast become 
an anachronism, a relic of a different time. That is why 
the  United  Kingdom  continues  to  support  permanent 
seats  for  Brazil,  India,  Germany  and  Japan,  and 
permanent African representation, too. We call on all 
States to play their part in this forum, and in our other 
international institutions, just as we will play ours.
We are at our best when we engage constructively 
with  one  another  and  when  we  are  ambitious  in 
pursuing  our  shared  goals.  That  is  as  important  for 
those  countries  whose  economies  and  influence  have 
grown  and  transformed  over  more  recent  years  as  it 
is  for  the  old,  established  Powers.  Greater  influence 
means greater responsibility. The world is a better place 
because Brazil is taking a lead in tackling deforestation, 
because Mexico has enshrined climate-change targets 
into law, because the Republic of Korea is leading the 
way on nuclear security.
But there is much more to do; there are many more 
areas where we need to take the lead. A global trade deal 
to cut bureaucracy at borders — the subject of a World 
Trade  Organization  meeting  that  will  take  place  in 
Bali in early December — would mean a trillion-dollar 
boost for the global economy.
32/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
In the next two years, the United Kingdom wants 
to do as much as it can to drive progress on the United 
Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  we  are 
also  working  in  the  United  Nations  and  with  civil 
society  to  set  out  a  post-2015  agenda  that  is  even 
more ambitious. There can be no greater goal than to 
eradicate extreme poverty, leaving no one behind.
On these and all other issues facing our nations, we 
are  quite  simply  stronger  together  than  we  are  apart. 
Now  more  than  ever,  we  must  fend  off  the  forces  of 
insularity and isolationism, stand up for our values and 
look out to the world. That is what the United Kingdom 
will do. We stand ready to work with all others who will 
do the same.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Russian Federation.
Mr. Lavrov (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
increasingly 
International  relations  are  becoming 
complex  and  multidimensional,  while  developments 
in the world are even more rapid and less predictable. 
Under these circumstances as never before, there is an 
urgent  need  to  agree  upon  collective  responses  to  the 
key issues of today. It is solely within the power of such 
a  truly  universal  Organization  as  the  United  Nations 
to  do  so.  Moreover,  such  solidarity-based  efforts  will 
be productive only if they reflect the entire spectrum 
of  views  of  the  international  community  on  global 
challenges  and  threats,  a  broad  range  of  historical 
experiences  and  the  full  cultural  and  civilizational 
diversity of the modern world.
For  most  of  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
family,  that  approach  is  axiomatic.  However,  there  is 
also  another  tendency  whereby  collective  actions  are 
understood primarily as agreement with the viewpoint 
of  one  group  of  countries.  Such  views  manifest 
themselves in various areas: international security, the 
settlement of conflict situations, the functioning of the 
world economy, and the choice of development models 
and core values.
Many problems affecting today’s world are reflected 
in  the  tragic  situation  in  Syria  and  in  the  uncertainty 
surrounding  the  development  of  events  in  the  Middle 
East and North Africa overall. From the very onset of 
the turmoil in that region, Russia has consistently called 
for  the  development  by  the  international  community 
of  a  common  approach  combining  support  for  the 
Arab  peoples  on  their  path  to  transformation  with 
an  understanding  of  the  fact  that,  objectively,  those 
processes will be lengthy and sometimes painful, and 
that it will be quite important not to undermine them 
through gross outside interference.
We have emphasized the need to act in a balanced 
way and to take account of the fact that current complex 
developments are associated with, among other things, 
a  tireless  quest  for  compromises  among  the  various 
ethnic  and  religious  groups  that  make  up  the  mosaic 
of Arab societies. We have consistently supported the 
choice of the evolutionary way of development and the 
peaceful settlement of crises through national dialogue 
and reconciliation.
Another  perspective  has  been  reflected  in  the 
attempts made to determine who is and is not legitimate 
among the leaders of the Middle East and North Africa 
region,  to  impose  a  view  as  to  which  side  should  be 
supported in domestic national conflicts, and to dictate 
external,  ready-made  prescriptions  for  democratic 
transformation.
Attempts  to  portray,  in  a  simplified  way,  the 
developments  in  the  Arab  world  as  the  struggle  of 
democracy  against  tyranny  or  of  good  against  evil 
have  long  obscured  the  problems  associated  with  the 
rising  wave  of  extremism,  which  is  spilling  over  into 
other  regions  today.  The  terrorist  attacks  in  Kenya 
have demonstrated the full gravity of that threat. It is 
common  knowledge  that  jihadist  groups  that  include 
numerous radical elements from all parts of the world 
are  the  most  combat-capable  units  of  the  opposition. 
The goals that they are pursuing have nothing to do with 
democracy but are based on intolerance and aimed at 
the destruction of secular States and the establishment 
of caliphates. It is difficult to qualify as far-sighted a 
policy that entails fighting in Mali the same extremist 
groups that are being supported in Syria.
The use of chemical weapons is inadmissible. That 
does not mean, however, that one can usurp the right 
to  accuse  and  to  render  verdicts.  All  of  the  incidents 
associated with the use of chemical weapons in Syria, 
by  whomsoever  committed,  must  be  investigated  in  a 
professional and unbiased manner and then considered 
by  the  Security  Council  exclusively  on  the  basis  of 
facts rather than of allegations or assumptions. In that 
respect, at the Group of 20 (G-20) summit held in June, 
an agreement was reached by leaders of the eight key 
States.
13-48784
33/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
Recently 
a 
has 
common 
argument 
been 
increasingly  made  to  the  effect  that  the  threat  or  use 
of  force,  directly  prohibited  by  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, is virtually the most effective method 
of  addressing  international  problems,  including  the 
settlement  of  domestic  conflicts.  There  have  been 
attempts  to  extrapolate  such  an  approach  to  the 
situation  in  Syria  as  well,  despite  the  fact  that  recent 
experience with such interventions has proved that they 
are ineffective, meaningless and destructive. That is an 
extremely dangerous path leading to the erosion of the 
foundations of today’s world order and the subversion 
of  the  weapons  of  mass  destruction  non-proliferation 
regimes.
It  is  alarming  to  hear  statements  about  the  right 
to  use  military  force  to  ensure  one’s  own  interests  in 
the Middle East region under the pretext of a persistent 
leadership gap in the international arena. Recent history 
shows  that  no  State,  no  matter  how  big  or  powerful, 
can cope alone with challenges of the scope faced by 
humankind today.
There  is  no  doubt  that  leadership  is  required. 
However,  today  it  can  only  be  collective  leadership 
based  on  agreed  actions  of  the  leading  members  of 
the  international  community,  with  strict  respect  for 
the  principles  and  norms  of  international  law.  It  is 
the  growing  understanding  of  that  reality  that  has 
opened  the  way  towards  achieving  Russia-United 
States  understandings  relating  to  the  placing  under 
international control and subsequent elimination of the 
Syrian chemical arsenals. That became possible thanks 
to  the  decision  by  Damascus  to  join  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention and fulfil the relevant obligations 
following the expedited procedure.
We  expect  that  the  decisions  of  the  Organization 
for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  Executive 
Council  and  the  Security  Council  will  contribute  to 
creating the framework required for the elimination of 
chemical arsenals in Syria.
Progress  in  the  area  of  chemical  disarmament  in 
Syria  should  give  impetus  to  the  implementation  of 
existing  arrangements  to  convene  a  conference  on 
establishing a zone free of weapons of mass destruction 
and their means of delivery in the Middle East. We know 
that there are a number of complicated issues related to 
ensuring full participation of the countries of the region 
in  such  a  conference,  but  they  cannot  be  discussed 
endlessly.  That  is  exactly  when  true  leadership  and 
resolve must be demonstrated for the common benefit.
People are continuing to die and innocent civilians 
to  suffer  every  day  in  Syria.  Religious  minorities, 
including  Christian  communities,  are  becoming 
victims of the conflict, which is increasingly acquiring 
a  sectarian  character.  Virtually  the  only  possibility 
remaining  today  to  put  an  end  to  this  turmoil  is 
to  break  the  deadlock  regarding  the  process  of  a 
political  settlement  of  the  Syrian  crisis.  We  continue 
to work tirelessly for the earliest convening of a peace 
conference  to  implement  the  Geneva  communiqué 
of  30  July  2012  (S/2012/522,  annex).  We  hope  that, 
following the example set by the Government of Syria, 
the  opposition  will  also  constructively  respond  to  the 
Russia-United States initiative.
The Syrian crisis should not overshadow the need to 
address the Palestinian problem. We expect the Israeli 
and Palestinian leaders to shoulder their responsibility 
for  the  future  of  their  people  at  this  current  critical 
stage,  where  the  parties  have  resumed  direct  talks 
after  a  lengthy  interruption.  While  duly  recognizing 
the  efforts  made  by  the  United  States  in  the  Middle 
East  settlement  process,  we  deem  it  necessary  to 
intensify the activity of the Quartet, the internationally 
recognized mechanism for providing assistance to the 
peace process in the region on the basis of the relevant 
decisions of the United Nations, the Madrid principles 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  It  is  also  important  to 
ensure the close involvement of the Arab countries in 
the activities of the Quartet.
Approaches based on negotiation are also required 
with  respect  to  other  situations,  including  the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme  and  the  nuclear  problem  in  the 
Korean peninsula. As President Vladimir Putin noted 
in his recent article in the 11 September 2013 issue of 
The New York Times,
“We  must  stop  using  the  language  of  force  and 
return  to  the  path  of  civilized  diplomatic  and 
political settlement.”
This  would  help  to  improve  the  international 
environment  and  contribute  to  stepping  up  collective 
efforts to counter global challenges, including terrorism 
and drug trafficking. Russia intends to attach priority 
attention  to  these  challenges  during  its  presidency  of 
the Group of Eight, in 2014.
Today, when the rigid frame of the bipolar system 
has been long relegated to the past, a mark of the time 
is the strengthening of the democratic foundations both 
within States and in international relations. That means 
34/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
in particular that the recognition of the right of peoples 
to independently determine their destiny and to choose 
the  optimal  forms  of  social  and  political  structure 
and  social  and  economic  systems  should  become  an 
indisputable  norm  of  conduct.  In  the  same  way,  the 
complex  of  exclusiveness  and  supremacy  regarding 
one’s own customs in the human rights area should be 
abandoned and instead the universal criteria enshrined 
in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  should 
be  used  as  a  guideline.  Moreover,  it  is  important  to 
respect  the  traditional  values  that  are  common  to  all 
the religions.
It  is  obvious  that  a  genuine  partnership  is  hardly 
achievable  without  reliance  on  the  foundations  of 
economic  cooperation.  The  prevailing  majority  of 
States  are  interacting  within  the  framework  of  the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  in  that  sense  they  are 
already  operating  in  a  common  economic  space. 
This  creates  the  prerequisites  for  working  towards 
harmonization  of  integration  processes  in  various 
regions of the world instead of trying to artificially pit 
them against each other by creating new division lines. 
Russia is proceeding from that exact understanding in 
its joint work with its partners in the establishment of 
the Eurasian Economic Union.
Russia attaches great importance to achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals and the drafting of the 
global  development  agenda  for  the  post-2015  period 
on their basis. The main priorities are the eradication 
of  poverty  and  support  for  economic  growth  through 
the  expansion  of  investment  opportunities  and  the 
creation  of  new  jobs.  Some  of  the  most  urgent  issues 
are  the  strengthening  of  the  energy  and  transport 
infrastructures,  the  fight  against  infectious  diseases 
and road safety.
Cooperation among States should rely on efficient 
mechanisms  and  an  adequate  resource  base.  In  that 
context,  we  support  the  further  strengthening  of  the 
coordinating  role  and  potential  of  the  United  Nations 
Economic and Social Council. During its chairmanship 
of  the  Group  of  20,  Russia  has  consistently  pursued 
a  policy  of  developing  its  interaction  with  the  United 
Nations.  We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly,  in 
cooperation  with  the  G-20,  will  develop  a  realistic 
programme of long-term cooperation.
I firmly believe that, by joining forces on the basis 
of genuine respect and considering the interests of each 
and everyone, we will be able to achieve the lofty goals 
that are enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Yun Byung-se, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Korea
Mr. Yun Byung-se (Republic of Korea): May I first 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I am 
confident that the current session will be a fruitful one 
under your able leadership.
in  partnership  with 
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  pleased  that  the  United 
its  Member  States 
Nations, 
and  under 
the  stewardship  of  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon,  is  strengthening  multilateralism  by 
successfully responding to the diverse challenges that 
the  international  community  faces.  We  are  confident 
that  the  Secretary-General’s  Five-Year  Action  Plan 
will help the United Nations to keep making important 
contributions in this period of transformation.
Twenty-two years ago I was present in the Assembly 
to watch with great emotion the historic moment when 
the Republic of Korea was admitted as a State Member 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  moment  came  at  the  end 
of  a  long  wait  during  the  Cold  War.  At  that  time  the 
Republic  of  Korea  solemnly  pledged  to  actively  take 
part in the shaping of a new global order that is free, fair 
and  prosperous  and  where  justice  and  the  rule  of  law 
prevail. To live up to this pledge, the Republic of Korea, 
though a latecomer, has fully embraced the callings of 
the United Nations with passion and devotion. In many 
corners of the world, Korea has actively taken part in 
peacekeeping  and  reconstruction  efforts.  Currently, 
Korea is serving as a member of the Security Council 
and the Human Rights Council, among others.
Since  its  inception,  the  United  Nations  has  taken 
on  the  noble  endeavour  of  helping  the  peoples  of  the 
United  Nations  to  live  in  larger  freedom.  However, 
insecurity and inequality, injustice and intolerance still 
prevail in many parts of the world, where our common 
efforts  are  desperately  needed.  Furthermore,  the  rise 
of  new  global  challenges,  such  as  climate  change, 
terrorism and cybercrime, calls for global cooperation 
that transcends the existing inter-State system. In other 
words, the importance and the relevance of the United 
Nations  is  ever  increasing,  as  it  is  a  key  vehicle  for 
global cooperation.
The new Administration of the Republic of Korea 
has  put  forward  its  foreign-policy  vision,  which  is 
built on two fundamental objectives: “happiness of the 
people” and “happiness of the global community”. Such 
13-48784
35/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
a  vision  resonates  with  the  core  values  of  the  United 
Nations — peace, human rights and development.
Korea  seeks  to  make  meaningful  contributions  to 
maintain  global  peace  beyond  the  Korean  peninsula. 
We  want  to  share  the  fruits  of  our  economic  success, 
which was achieved with the help of the international 
community,  and  strive  to  enhance  the  dignity  and 
happiness  of  all  global  citizens.  I  believe  that  that  is 
in line with the purposes and principles of the United 
Nations as well.
The  first  pillar  in  attaining  global  happiness  is 
security.  In  particular,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  of 
the  view  that  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and  their  means  of  delivery  is  one  of  the 
most serious threats to international peace and security.
In  that  connection,  the  use  of  chemical  weapons 
in  Syria,  as  confirmed  by  the  report  of  the  United 
Nations investigators (A/67/997), has caused the worst 
humanitarian disaster in the twenty-first century. The 
Government of the Republic of Korea condemns the use 
of chemical weapons in the strongest possible terms, as 
it constitutes a crime against humanity that cannot be 
tolerated under any circumstances.
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent  agreement 
between the United States and Russia on the Framework 
for  Elimination  of  Syrian  Chemical  Weapons, 
and  expect  a  decision  by  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons.  and  a  reinforcing 
resolution by the Security Council, sometime today. We 
urge the Syrian Government to faithfully implement its 
commitments to the international community. We also 
strongly call upon all countries that have not acceded 
to  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention,  including  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  to  do  so  as 
soon as possible.
In  that  context,  I  must  draw  attention  to  the 
seriousness  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic’s 
ongoing  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
(WMD) 
programmes.  Despite  a  series  of  Security  Council 
resolutions, the Democratic People’s Republic launched 
long-range  missiles  and  conducted  nuclear  tests  as 
recently  as  in  early  2013,  in  blatant  violation  of  its 
international  obligations.  It  should  strictly  implement 
its  obligations  under  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions, including resolution 2094 (2013). As is the 
case  with  Syria,  the  international  community  should 
make united efforts to roll back the Democratic People’s 
Republic’s  nuclear-weapons  programmes  to  prevent 
the  advent  of  another  nuclear-armed  State.  However, 
if  it  decides  to  give  up  its  so-called  parallel  pursuit 
of  economic  development  and  nuclear  armament  and 
in turn embarks on a path of genuine change through 
concrete actions, the Republic of Korea stands ready to 
help the Democratic People’s Republic.
Alongside  the  proliferation  of  WMD,  terrorism 
presents  a  grave  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  Republic  of 
Korea strongly condemns the terrorist attack that took 
place  last  weekend  in  Nairobi,  Kenya.  Our  sincere 
condolences go out to the victims and their families of 
the tragedy. The Government of the Republic of Korea 
denounces all forms of terrorism and will continue to 
take part in the global efforts to combat terrorism.
Together with its efforts to respond to the imminent 
security  threats,  including  the  proliferation  of  WMD, 
the  new  Administration  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  is 
pursuing a policy that it calls “trustpolitik”, to establish 
a  regional  order  of  reconciliation  and  cooperation 
in  the  Korean  Peninsula  and  in  Northeast  Asia.  Our 
trustpolitik, in turn, is implemented through the Korean 
Peninsula  Trust-Building  Process  and  the  Northeast 
Asia Peace and Cooperation Initiative.
The  Korean  Peninsula  Trust-Building  Process 
aspires to safeguard peace based on strong deterrence, 
while simultaneously building peace through dialogue 
and  cooperation.  Through  that  process,  the  new 
Administration  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  was  able  to 
ensure  the  resumption  of  operations  in  the  Kaesong 
industrial  park, 
inter-Korean 
economic cooperation project.
the  only  remaining 
Furthermore,  the  Republic  of  Korea  proposes  to 
create a world peace park in the world’s most heavily 
armed  demilitarized  zone,  in  order  to  transform  a 
lasting legacy of the Cold War and a divided Korea into 
a new space of peace and harmony. It is my hope that the 
United Nations and the two Koreas will work together 
to bring this proposal to fruition, thereby contributing 
greatly to the building of trust in the Korean peninsula.
Turning to the broader region of North-East Asia, 
Korea  is  expecting  further  political  and  security 
cooperation that corresponds to the level of economic 
interdependence  in  the  region.  To  that  end,  the 
Republic of Korea proposed the Northeast Asia Peace 
and  Cooperation  Initiative,  which  will  open  dialogue 
on  soft  issues  of  common  interests  to  the  players  in 
the region. The Republic of Korea is also interested in 
36/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
learning  from  the  valuable  experiences  in  successful 
regional institutions, such as the European Union, the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
and the Regional Forum of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations.
The  second  pillar  of  an  era  of  global  happiness 
is  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and  human  dignity 
as  universal  values.  In  the  past  century,  the  Republic 
of  Korea  went  through  a  colonial  occupation  and  a 
tragic internecine war. From that experience, Koreans 
became more appreciative than others of the paramount 
importance of human rights and humanitarianism.
Worldwide,  there  is  an  alarming  increase  in  the 
number  of  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons 
owing  to  wars  and  intra-State  conflicts.  Concerning 
the  massive  refugee  problem  caused  by  the  Syrian 
civil  war,  my  Government  is  actively  involved  in 
international  efforts  to  assist  the  refugees.  Korea  is 
also  planning  to  co-host  a  working  group  meeting 
on  Syrian  reconstruction  in  Seoul  next  month.  The 
Republic of Korea also wishes to emphasize the need to 
uphold the internationally established legal principle of 
non-refoulement.
Today,  there  are  over  10  million  people  in  Korea 
suffering from the agony of not being able to see their 
loved ones across the inter-Korean border, even 60 years 
after  the  end  of  the  Korean  War.  Based  on  the  recent 
agreement between the two Koreas, a reunion for those 
separated families was to be held this week. However, 
to our utmost regret, the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  unilaterally  cancelled  that  reunion,  which 
would have been a humanitarian event, citing political 
reasons. Such an inhumane decision cannot be justified 
for any sound reason. Thus far, the new Administration 
of the Republic of Korea has maintained the insulation 
of  humanitarian  issues  from  political  considerations. 
I  therefore  urge  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea to convene the family reunion as soon as possible 
so as to ease the pain and suffering of the Korean people 
as a whole.
The Republic of Korea wishes to draw the attention 
of  the  Assembly  to  the  increasing  need  to  protect 
civilians,  including  women  and  children,  from  armed 
conflicts around the globe. With that in mind, during 
its  presidency  of  the  Security  Council  in  February, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  chaired  an  open  debate  on  the 
protection of civilians in armed conflict (see S/PV.6917). 
We are also one of the champions of the newly launched 
protection  from  sexual  violence  initiative.  In  fact, 
sexual  violence  during  conflicts  is  one  of  the  most 
serious  types  of  human  rights  violation.  It  is  a  war 
crime that not only destroys the life of the victim, but 
also that of the victim’s family and the community.
In  particular,  for  the  victims  of  sexual  violence 
during  conflicts  of  the  past  century,  the  pain  and 
the  agony  continue  to  this  day.  What  matters  most  is 
genuine  remorse  and  concrete  actions.  As  repeatedly 
emphasized  in  reports  of  United  Nations  special 
rapporteurs  on  sexual  violence,  responsible  measures 
are called for that can restore the honour of the victims 
and soothe their pain, as such crimes involve a universal 
human rights issue.
Underdevelopment  and  extreme  poverty  are  the 
core challenges facing the United Nations today. Since 
the Millennium Summit was held in 2000, the collective 
efforts  by  the  international  community  to  reach  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have yielded 
some very tangible results. However, progress has not 
been equally enjoyed across all regions, countries and 
groups  of  people.  It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  we 
attach  great  importance  to  discussions  on  the  future 
direction of and road map for development cooperation, 
under the theme of “The post-2015 development agenda: 
setting the stage”, at the present session of the General 
Assembly.
The next set of common global development goals 
should  be  genuinely  people-centred  and  take  into 
account a standard of well-being that goes beyond the 
traditional income levels. The new goals should place 
the greatest priority on guaranteeing the dignity of all. 
Furthermore,  they  should  seek  to  build  partnerships 
with the newly emerging development actors, so as to 
effectively  utilize  available  capacities  and  resources. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  hopes  that  the  Busan  Global 
Partnership  for  Effective  Development  Cooperation, 
launched  in  2012,  will  also  play  a  significant  role  in 
setting  up  a  new  cooperative  mechanism  to  lead  the 
implementation of the post-2015 development agenda.
Such development goals also coincide with Korea’s 
foreign  policy  objective  of  building  an  era  of  global 
happiness.  The  Republic  of  Korea  hopes  to  work 
together  to  complete  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
MDGs  by  pursuing  a  recipient-oriented  development 
cooperation policy. More specifically, we will continue 
to  increase  our  official  development  assistance  and 
share our successful development experiences, such as 
the Saemaul Undong, or New Community Movement, 
with developing countries.
13-48784
37/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
In  addition,  a  united  response  to  climate  change 
is  critical  to  achieving  global  happiness.  Korea  will 
actively support the Green Climate Fund, headquartered 
in  Korea,  so  that  it  develops  into  a  significant 
organization  that  supports  developing  countries  in 
responding to climate change and the threats it brings.
Deepening  global  interdependence  has  led  to 
the  rise  of  challenges  requiring  a  common  response. 
Expectations  of  the  role  to  be  played  by  the  United 
Nations  are  now  higher  than  ever  before.  Indeed,  the 
United  Nations  has  made  great  contributions  as  the 
centre of global cooperation and is expected to continue 
in those noble endeavours. As former Secretary-General 
Dag Hammarskjöld once said, we should
“recognize the United Nations for what it is — an 
admittedly imperfect but indispensable instrument 
of nations working for a peaceful evolution towards 
a more just and secure world order”.
I  am  reminded  of  the  solemn  pledge  that  my 
Government  made  22  years  ago  —  that  the  Republic 
of  Korea  will  actively  contribute  to  the  resolution  of 
global challenges through the United Nations. Today, I 
stand before the Assembly to reaffirm the commitment 
of the new Government of the Republic of Korea — that 
Korea  will  contribute  to  realizing  the  era  of  global 
happiness by achieving the goals set out by the United 
Nations. It is only when we make common and collective 
efforts toward advancing the universal values of peace, 
development and human rights that the United Nations 
will truly become the parliament of humankind.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Wang  Yi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
People’s Republic of China.
Mr.  Wang  Yi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  This 
year has been an unusual one in China’s development. 
China’s  new  central  collective  leadership  has  put 
forward the concept of the “Chinese dream”, a dream of 
the great renewal of the Chinese nation, and it is leading 
the 1.3 billion Chinese people in an endeavour to fulfil 
the two centennial goals, namely, to finish building a 
moderately prosperous society in all respects by 2020 
and  to  turn  China  into  a  modern  socialist  country  by 
the  mid-twenty-first  century.  Having  experienced 
profound changes in the past 5,000 years and especially 
the  past  century,  China  has  reached  a  new  historical 
starting point today.
What  development  path  will  China  take  in  the 
future?  What  domestic  and  foreign  policies  will  it 
pursue? And what kind of international role will it play? 
I understand that those questions are of great interest to 
the international community. As the Foreign Minister 
of  the  new  Chinese  Government,  I  wish  to  give  an 
emphatic answer to each of them.
China  will  stay  firmly  on  the  path  of  peaceful 
development. China’s rapid development over the years 
has given rise to worries that China might follow the 
old pattern of wealth breeding arrogance and strength 
leading to hegemony, and various versions of the China 
threat theory have surfaced. However, what happened 
in the past should not be applied to today’s China.
The  outdated  Cold  War  mentality  has  no  place 
in  the  new  era  of  globalization.  The  Chinese  nation 
loves  peace  and  the  Chinese  culture  values  harmony. 
Throughout  history,  the  Chinese  people  have  always 
embraced 
trade,  not 
foreign aggression and expansion, and have adhered to 
the patriotic resolve to defend the homeland rather than 
the colonialist doctrine of seizing new territories.
international  exchanges  and 
The  culture  of  a  country  determines  its  values, 
and its history points the way to its future. Close to 40 
years  ago,  it  was  from  this  rsotrum  that  the  Chinese 
leader Deng Xiaoping solemnly declared on behalf of 
the Chinese Government that China would never seek 
hegemony  in  the  world.  Today,  his  statement  remains 
our unchanging commitment and conviction. China has 
honoured and will continue to honour its promise and 
remain a staunch force for upholding world peace.
China  pursues  peaceful  development  and  calls 
on  all  other  countries  to  follow  the  same  path.  Since 
the  beginning  of  reform  and  opening  up,  China  has 
become  increasingly  interdependent  with  the  global 
economy and integrated into the international system. 
We are committed to working with others to establish 
a new type of international relations, based on win-win 
cooperation,  and  to  seek  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
international  and  regional  disputes.  With  regard  to 
China’s  disputes  with  some  countries  over  territorial 
sovereignty  and  maritime  rights  and  interests,  we 
sincerely  hope  to  resolve  them  in  accordance  with 
proper procedures, through negotiation and consultation 
with  the  countries  directly  involved.  Those  disputes 
that cannot be resolved now can be shelved for future 
resolution. That is our consistent position and practice. 
On the other hand, we will, whatever the circumstances, 
firmly  safeguard  China’s  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity and resolutely uphold China’s legitimate and 
lawful rights and interests.
38/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
China will remain committed to reform, to opening 
up  and  to  sustainable  development.  It  has  been  five 
years since the outbreak of the international financial 
crisis.  The  global  economy  is  back  on  the  right  track 
to recovery, but the foundations of the recovery are not 
solid and the speed is not fast enough. The root causes 
of the financial crisis have yet to be removed, and the 
structural  problems  of  developed  countries  remain 
unresolved. The adjustment of unconventional monetary 
policies  from  the  outside,  coupled  with  other  factors, 
have  posed  new  challenges  and  the  risk  of  financial 
market volatility to emerging market countries.
Where  the  Chinese  economy  is  heading  engages 
both  domestic  and  international  attention.  In  that 
regard,  I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  both  the 
fundamentals  and  the  overall  performance  of  China’s 
economy are sound, and China’s development prospects 
are  bright.  The  leading  indicators  of  the  Chinese 
economy are generally good, and China leads the major 
economies in growth rate.
In pursuit of progress while maintaining stability, 
the Chinese Government has followed a macroeconomic 
policy  that  addresses  both  immediate  and  long-term 
needs  and  has  adopted  a  series  of  innovative  policy 
measures  with  a  view  to  promoing  steady  growth, 
economic  structural  adjustment  and  reform.  We  are 
vigorously  pursuing  reform,  opening  up,  deepening 
economic  structural  adjustment  and  accelerating 
the  shift  in  our  growth  model.  We  are  implementing 
the  basic  State  policy  of  resource  conservation  and 
environmental  protection  and  promoting  green, 
circular and low-carbon development to build a sound 
ecological environment and a beautiful China.
With  its  increasing  economic  output  and  its 
changing growth model, China’s economy has entered 
a  phase  of  high-to-medium  growth  rate.  That  is 
dictated  by  the  law  of  economics,  and  it  will  ensure 
the  sustained  and  healthy  growth  of  the  Chinese 
economy.  The  Chinese  economy  is  being  upgraded, 
and  its  future  growth  will  deliver  major  dividends  in 
four areas as a result of industrialization, information 
technology application, a new type of urbanization and 
agricultural  modernization;  reform  and  innovation; 
structural  readjustment;  and  further  opening  up.  It  is 
projected that in the coming five years, China’s imports 
of  commodities  will  exceed  $10  trillion,  its  overseas 
investment  will  reach  $500  billion,  and  Chinese 
tourists  will  make  over  400  million  outbound  visits. 
That will give stronger impetus to the world economy 
and bring an increasing number of tangible benefits to 
other countries.
China  will  firmly  promote  reform  of  the  global 
governance system with the United Nations at its core. 
The  United  Nations  is  a  big  stage  for  all  countries  to 
conduct consultation and cooperation with one another. 
It is also a big family where people of all countries are 
brought  together.  It  is  our  consistent  position  that  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  form  the  cornerstone  of  current  international 
relations  and  provide  safeguards  for  world  peace  and 
stability. Respecting national sovereignty and opposing 
interference  in  internal  affairs,  safeguarding  peace 
and opposing aggression, and promoting equality and 
opposing power politics; those are important principles 
that  must  be  observed.  China  firmly  upholds  the  role 
and authority of the United Nations, supports the United 
Nations in its renewal and self-improvement efforts, in 
keeping with a changing world, and looks forward to a 
United Nations that plays a larger role in international 
affairs.  China  is  ready  to  deepen  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  and  get  more  actively  involved  in 
United Nations activities in various fields.
China  is  committed  to  promoting  democracy 
in  international  relations  and  the  trend  toward  a 
multipolar world. We call for a greater representation 
and  voice  for  developing  countries  in  the  global 
governance  system  and  support  the  Group  of  20,  the 
BRICS group — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South 
Africa  —  and  other  emerging  mechanisms  that  are 
playing  a  key  role  in  making  the  international  order 
fairer and more equitable. We also call for the reform 
of the international monetary and financial systems and 
want  the  role  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  as  the 
main forum in the area of trade to be maintained. We 
are opposed to trade protectionism and are working to 
make economic globalization more balanced, inclusive 
and beneficial to all. We call on countries to enhance 
macroeconomic  policy  coordination  and  be  mindful 
of  the  spillover  effects  of  their  respective  adjustment 
of economic policies. We call for the strengthening of 
North-South dialogue and South-South cooperation to 
make  development  benefits  more  accessible  to  people 
of all countries.
fulfil 
its 
firmly 
China  will 
international 
responsibilities  and  obligations.  The  Chinese  nation 
is  responsible  and  ready  to  play  its  part.  Although  it 
remains a developing country facing the daunting task 
of development, China, as the second-largest economy 
13-48784
39/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
and  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council,  is 
fully aware of its responsibilities and the expectations 
placed on it by the international community. We will be 
fully and more actively engaged in international affairs 
and work closely with other countries to meet complex 
global challenges and tackle the difficult issues facing 
humankind. We will voice China’s views, offer China’s 
wisdom,  propose  China’s  solutions,  play  China’s  due 
role and provide more public goods to the international 
community.
We  will  vigorously  advocate  the  right  vision  on 
justice versus special interests, and we will endeavour 
to  build  a  community  of  common  destiny  with  other 
developing countries. In our exchanges and cooperation 
with other developing countries, we will uphold justice 
and  place  it  above  special  interests.  We  will  provide 
assistance  to  other  developing  countries  to  the  best 
of our ability, so as to enable developing countries to 
realize independent and sustainable development.
We will play a more proactive and constructive role 
in addressing international and regional hotspot issues 
to  promote  peace  and  dialogue,  defuse  conflicts  and 
safeguard world peace and stability. We will maintain 
our escort missions and counter-piracy operations in the 
Gulf of Aden and increase our participation in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  so  as  to  contribute 
more to peace and security in Africa and other relevant 
regions.
The  turmoil  in  Syria  has  lasted  for  nearly  three 
years,  causing  great  suffering  and  trauma  to  both  the 
Syrian people and Syria’s neighbours. The recent use of 
chemical weapons has met with universal condemnation. 
China  firmly  opposes  the  use  of  chemical  weapons. 
We  hope  to  see  the  early  adoption  of  a  Security 
Council resolution to support the Organization for the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in launching 
the verification and destruction of chemical weapons, 
and we stand ready to make financial contributions to 
the OPCW for the destruction of chemical weapons in 
Syria and to send experts to work there on the ground.
China calls for an immediate end to hostilities and 
violence  in  Syria  so  that  the  necessary  conditions  for 
the  verification  and  destruction  of  chemical  weapons 
can  be  created.  We  call  for  the  early  convening  of 
the  “Geneva  II”  conference  and  faster  progress  on  a 
political  resolution  of  the  Syrian  issue.  China  seeks 
no gains for itself in Syria. We respect the aspirations 
and choice of the Syrian people. China is following the 
humanitarian situation in Syria with great concern. We 
have provided and will continue to provide assistance 
within our means to the Syrian people, including Syrian 
refugees outside the country.
Recently,  China  has  been  providing  emergency 
humanitarian aid to Jordan in the amount of ¥15 million, 
and has provided emergency humanitarian aid in cash 
worth ¥24 million to the World Food Programme and the 
World Health Organization for displaced people within 
Syria and Syrian refugees in Lebanon, respectively.
to 
issue 
the  Iranian  nuclear 
China  has  been  working  to  promote  a  peaceful 
settlement 
through 
dialogue.  We  have  played  a  constructive  role  in 
seeking  a  comprehensive,  lasting  and  appropriate 
solution to the Iranian nuclear issue so as to uphold the 
international  non-proliferation  regime  and  peace  and 
stability in the Middle East. The dialogue between Iran 
and  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
and  Germany  has  created  new  opportunities.  All  the 
relevant parties should scale up diplomatic efforts and 
work for substantive progress in the dialogue at an early 
date.
The Palestinian issue is at the core of the Middle 
East  conflict.  Guided  by  President  Xi  Jinping’s  four-
point proposal on resolving the Palestinian issue, China 
will  continue  to  work  for  a  comprehensive,  just  and 
durable solution to the issue.
Thanks to the concerted efforts of all the relevant 
parties,  tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula  are  easing. 
Achieving the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula 
and  maintaining  long-term  peace  and  stability  on  the 
peninsula will respond to the common interests of all 
parties concerned. It is China’s consistent position that 
a negotiated solution through dialogue is the right way 
to  resolve  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  peninsula,  and  the 
Six-Party  Talks  are  an  effective  platform  to  promote 
denuclearization  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  This  year 
marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  launch  of  the  Six-
Party  Talks.  We  hope  that  all  parties  will  create 
conducive  conditions,  build  consensus,  work  towards 
the same goal and resume the talks at an early date.
International development cooperation is at a crucial 
stage,  where  we  must  build  on  past  achievements  to 
make new progress. China supports the continued and 
full  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  the  early  launch  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda. The 
post-2015 development agenda should continue to focus 
on  development  and  poverty  elimination,  give  due 
40/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
consideration  to  national  conditions  and  the  various 
stages  of  development  in  the  different  countries,  and 
respect their independent choice of development path. 
The agenda should give priority to strengthening global 
development  partnerships;  adhere  to  the  principles  of 
common but differentiated responsibilities, equity and 
respective capabilities; improve follow-up mechanisms; 
step  up  development  financing;  promote  trade  and 
investment liberalization and facilitation; and increase 
official  development  aid  and  technical  support  to 
developing countries.
China  welcomes  the  positive  outcomes  of  the 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  held  in 
Doha  in  late  2012.  China  hopes  that  the  developed 
countries  will  demonstrate  political  will  and  honour 
their  commitments  by  scaling  up  emissions-reduction 
efforts and providing capital, technology and capacity-
building support to developing countries. The Chinese 
Government  takes  climate  change  seriously,  and  the 
many forceful policy measures it has taken have resulted 
in notable progress. China will continue to play its due 
role in addressing global climate change.
Time  flies.  We  will  soon  be  celebrating  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations. Born out of the ashes of the Second World War, 
the United Nations embodies the yearning of the peoples 
of all countries for world peace and global development. 
The  Chinese  dream  is  a  dream  of  prosperity  for  the 
country  and  happiness  for  the  people;  it  has  much  in 
common with the dream of people across the world. As 
a responsible Member of the United Nations, China is 
ready to work with all other Member States to faithfully 
adhere  to  the  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  faithfully  carry  out  its  historic  mission  and 
continue to make relentless efforts to advance the noble 
cause of peace and development for humankind.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Abdulaziz  Kamilov,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Kamilov (Uzbekistan): The rapidly changing 
situation,  growing  tensions,  radicalization,  security 
challenges and threats in various regions of the world 
today  cannot  but  raise  serious  alarm  and  concerns 
around the world. In this regard, needless to say, those 
problems  enjoy  special  priority  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly at this session.
The war in Afghanistan, which has been ongoing 
for  more  than  30  years,  remains  a  serious  source  of 
threats  to  regional  and  global  security.  The  situation 
unfolding  in  Afghanistan,  according  to  experts,  is 
generally  uncertain  and  unpredictable  overall.  In 
these  conditions,  the  drawdown  of  the  International 
Security  Assistance  Force  troops  in  2014  may  lead 
to  an  escalation  of  confrontation  in  the  country,  stir 
up  terrorism,  extremism  and  drug  trafficking,  and 
aggravate  the  interregional  standoff.  Undoubtedly,  it 
will have a negative impact on the situation in the wider 
region of Central Asia and contiguous regions.
It should be recognized that the world has adopted 
the  unambiguous  view  that  there  can  be  no  military 
solution to the Afghan problem. The only way out of the 
Afghan crisis is a political process through negotiations 
among  the  main  parties  involved,  the  achievement 
of  consensus  regardless  of  how  difficult  it  might  be, 
and  active  assistance  provided  by  the  international 
community and the United Nations.
Uzbekistan adheres to an open and clear policy with 
respect  to  Afghanistan  on  the  basis  of  the  principles 
of  good-neighbourliness  and  non-interference  in  the 
country’s  internal  affairs.  Uzbekistan  shall  further 
develop  mutually  beneficial  and  friendly  ties  with 
Afghanistan  on  a  bilateral  basis,  and  support  the 
Government elected by the Afghan people themselves. 
We  shall  also  continue  to  render  practical  assistance 
in  restoring  the  economy  of  Afghanistan,  taking 
into  account  the  fact  that  economic  well-being  is 
an  indispensable  condition  for  ensuring  peace  and 
prosperity  in  that  country.  These  principles  and 
approaches  towards  Afghanistan  are  enshrined  in 
Uzbekistan’s  foreign  policy  concept,  which  has  the 
status of law.
Secondly, 
today  a  new  global  development 
agenda  is  under  consideration  at  the  United  Nations. 
It  must  reflect  the  interconnection  of  human  beings 
with  the  environment  and  contribute  to  supporting 
economic  and  social  development  while  maintaining 
ecological  sustainability.  Uzbekistan  attaches  priority 
to  sustainable  development  and  ecological  safety. 
We  have  recently  adopted  an  action  programme  on 
environmental  protection  for  2013-2017,  which  serves 
as  confirmation  of  that  priority.  The  Government  of 
Uzbekistan  will  allocate  approximately  $2  billion  for 
implementation  of  the  programme  aimed  at  further 
maintaining decent conditions in the environment, the 
reasonable use of natural resources, and the introduction 
of the ecological basics of sustainable development in 
the economic sectors.
13-48784
41/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
The loss of the Aral Sea is one of the largest global 
ecological catastrophes in contemporary history. Each 
year, it becomes more evident that the problem of the 
drying up of the Aral Sea and, above all, its impact on the 
environmental, social and humanitarian situation, gene 
pool  and  human  health  are  assuming  an  increasingly 
baneful  and  irreversible  nature.  We  are  grateful  to 
the  United  Nations,  and  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon in particular, for the keen attention paid to the 
problem of the Aral Sea. That enormous support gives 
us the confidence that the countries of the region will 
not be left alone in the struggle against that planetary 
catastrophe.
I  would  like  to  draw  public  attention  today,  first, 
to the issue of preventing the complete destruction and 
protecting the remaining environmental system of the 
Aral Sea region, ensuring minimum living conditions 
for  the  people,  and  preserving  the  existing  flora  and 
fauna.  Those  key  issues  are  the  focus  of  the  message 
of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan,  Chair 
of  the  International  Fund  for  Saving  the  Aral  Sea, 
and  created  as  an  official  document  of  the  General 
Assembly (A/67/884, annex).
take 
this  opportunity 
Secondly,  we 
international  donors 
to  call 
upon 
to  extend  assistance 
in  implementing  the  programme  of  measures  on 
eliminating the consequences of the drying up of the Aral 
Sea and averting a catastrophe in the ecological systems 
in the Aral Sea region (A/68/383, annex), which is fully 
consonant  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
particularly,  in  achieving  ecological  sustainability, 
combating  diseases  and  improving  motherhood  and 
childhood protections.
Thirdly,  ensuring  the  reasonable  use  of  water 
resources  is  an  acute  problem  leading  to  a  worsening 
ecological  situation  and  shortage  of  potable  water  in 
our region and on a global scale. It is an open secret that 
the  Amu  Darya  and  Syr  Darya  rivers,  the  two  major 
transboundary rivers of Central Asia, have historically 
been a common good and a source of life for the nations 
of the region. The Aral Sea basin is supplied with water 
from the flow of those rivers.
large  hydropower 
In  that  regard,  we  cannot  but  be  concerned  about 
the  plans  of  Tajikistan  and  Kyrgyzstan  to  construct 
new 
stations  with  gigantic, 
global-scale dams: the Rogun hydropower station with 
a  350-metre-high  dam  upstream  in  the  Amu  Darya 
River, and the Kambarata-1 hydropower station, with a 
275-metre-high dam upstream in the Syr Darya River. 
The implementation of such plans, according to many 
competent specialists, would lead to the disruption of 
the natural flow of the rivers, which is fraught with most 
dangerous ecological and socioeconomic consequences. 
The  already  fragile  water  and  ecological  balance  in 
Central Asia will be radically disrupted. Moreover, the 
construction of these facilities is planned in areas where 
there is a tectonic fracture with a potential seismicity 
of not less than 9-10 points on the Richter scale, which 
carries a high risk of man-made catastrophes.
Taking  that  into  consideration,  we  firmly  adhere 
to  our  principled  position  of  the  unacceptability  of 
constructing  hydropower  facilities  on  international 
watercourses  without  the  preliminary  endorsement  of 
all  interested  countries.  It  is  necessary,  in  line  with 
international  legal  practice,  to  conduct  a  mandatory, 
fair  international  expert  examination  of  the  Rogun 
and  Kambarata-1  projects,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United  Nations,  to  assess  the  possible  impact  of  new 
hydropower facilities on the natural water regime, the 
environment, flora and fauna.
Uzbekistan’s  position  is  based  on  the  norms  of 
international  law,  in  particular  the  provisions  of  the 
United Nations Convention on the Protection and Use 
of  Transboundary  Watercourses  and  International 
Lakes  of  1992  and  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
Non-navigational  Uses  of  International  Watercourses 
of 1997.
The  year  2015  —  the  deadline  for  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  set  in  2000  —  is 
approaching.  In  that  regard,  it  should  be  underscored 
that  the  achievements  of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan 
during  its  years  of  independence  in  the  economic 
sphere,  social  policy,  addressing  specific 
issues 
related to improving the well-being of the population, 
the  quality  of  education,  health-care  services  and 
ecological  sustainability  have  allowed  our  country 
to  ensure  priority  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. I can offer figures and facts that 
reflect  the  current  potential  and  development  rates  of 
our country.
In  comparison  with  the  year  2000,  the  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  of  Uzbekistan  grew  by  a 
factor  of  3.1  and  the  GDP  per  capita  by  a  factor  of 
2.6.  The  nominal  salary  grew  by  a  factor  of  22,  the 
average  amount  of  pensions  by  a  factor  of  12.7,  and 
real  income  per  capita  by  a  factor  of  8.4.  During  the 
past six years, the economic growth of Uzbekistan has 
steadily  exceeded  8  per  cent.  The  State  expenditures 
42/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
for the social sphere and civil protection in Uzbekistan 
grew more than fivefold. About 60 per cent of all State 
expenditures  go  towards  funding  social  development, 
including more than 34 per cent for education, and over 
15 per cent is spent on public health care.
I  am  confident 
that  Uzbekistan’s  continued 
participation  in  United  Nations  efforts  in  the  sphere 
of sustainable development shall contribute to further 
raising  the  living  standards  of  the  people,  achieving 
the high goals of ensuring security and stability in the 
entire region.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Julie  Bishop,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Ms. Bishop (Australia): As a freshly minted Foreign 
Minister,  I  am  delighted  to  take  part  in  this  general 
debate. Only a few weeks ago, Australia held national 
elections  and  chose  a  new  Government.  Only  nine 
days  ago,  I  was  sworn  in  as  Australia’s  thirty-eighth 
Minister for Foreign Affairs. A change of Government 
is a significant national decision. It has happened only 
seven times in our country since the Second World War.
Australia  is  an  open,  liberal  democracy.  We 
recognize  our  good  fortune  in  having  an  unbroken 
record  of  peaceful  democratic  transition  stretching 
back to 1901. The United Nations offers that same ideal 
of peace and order in relations among States. It gives us 
a place to resolve our differences and to be heard on the 
concerns that matter most.
There  is  an  intrinsic  connection  between  the 
security  and  stability  of  Governments  and  economic 
development.  Good  Governments  understand 
that 
providing  a  secure  and  stable  environment  for  their 
citizens  is  their  most  fundamental  task,  but  that  task 
is  tied  inextricably  to  the  strength  of  their  economy. 
Economic growth, development and trade are the key 
drivers of national and international prosperity, and a 
vital support for global security. That is why the new 
Australian  Government  will  put  economic  diplomacy 
at the centre of our foreign policy.
We will promote responsible economic governance 
and open trading systems that support export-oriented 
economies. We recognize that a strong business sector, 
open trading rules and liberal foreign investment policies 
can foster economic growth and, with it, opportunities 
to  achieve  prosperity  and  security.  Strong  economies 
give nations and their people an environment in which 
to build their lives — to make choices for the lives they 
want to lead. Strong, open economies foster sustainable 
growth.  We  understand  that  from  our  experience  in 
Australia and in our region.
Australia’s  economic  success  and  high  standards 
of  living  are  anchored  in  reform  efforts  over  many 
years.  We  liberalized  our  economy  and  unilaterally 
dismantled trade barriers and protectionist policies. In 
our own region, as economies have opened, standards of 
living have improved. We have witnessed the enormous 
growth of the middle class in South-East Asia. Estimates 
suggest that approximately 145 million people will be 
considered middle-class in 2015, up from 95 million in 
2010. In Asia more broadly, we expect a middle class 
of over 3 billion people by 2030. Indonesia, currently 
the world’s sixteenth-largest economy, is on track to be 
the  world’s  seventh-largest  economy  by  2030.  China 
and India are projected to become the largest and third 
-largest economies by 2030. Over 290 million people in 
China were lifted out of poverty in the decade between 
1999 and 2009.
The  Secretary-General  has  rightly  focused  our 
attention  this  week  on  the  needs  of  the  poor,  the 
commitment we made to them over a decade ago, and 
our vision for the future. We need to finish the job on 
the Millennium Development Goals. Beyond 2015, we 
must  prioritize  sustainable  economic  growth  in  the 
global  development  framework.  We  must  provide  the 
opportunity  for  all  people,  including  people  with  a 
disability, to lead healthy and productive lives, leaving 
no  one  behind.  We  must  support  women’s  economic 
participation and empowerment.
the  productive  capacity  of 
The  future  of  peace  will  be  built  on  economic 
prosperity.  Aid  is  an  important  part  of  delivering 
sustainable  economic  growth  around  the  world.  It 
plays a significant role in supporting economic reforms 
and  good  governance,  promoting  the  rule  of  law  and 
building 
trade-related 
sectors. But it is the effectiveness of aid delivery that 
matters.  For  example,  infrastructure  deficiencies  that 
prevent developing economies from fully engaging in 
the global markets need to be overcome. Estimates of 
infrastructure financing needs, including for the roads 
and  ports  required  to  facilitate  trade,  dwarf  global 
aid.  According  to  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  Asia 
alone will require $750 billion annually over the next 
decade to meet its infrastructure needs. This compares 
to  annual  global  aid  flows  of  $130  billion.  Only  the 
private sector has the capacity to mobilize the financing 
necessary for such massive infrastructure investments.
13-48784
43/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
There is a role for aid in helping to overcome the 
obstacles  to  investment.  It  must  attract,  but  should 
never  replace,  private-sector  capital.  The  returns  are 
high.  A  joint  report  of  the  World  Trade  Organization 
and  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  estimates  that  every  dollar  invested  in 
aid-for-trade can lift exports from developing countries 
by $8.
The  situation  in  Syria  is  an  urgent  security  and 
humanitarian crisis we must address. Left unchecked, 
it  will  continue  to  cause  great  human  suffering  and 
further destabilize the region. Along with the rest of the 
world, Australia has condemned the horrific chemical 
weapons attack on 21 August, as we have condemned 
the  Al-Assad  regime’s  use  of  conventional  weapons 
against its own people.
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
We  firmly  believe  that  the  economic  growth  of 
developing  countries  can  be  unlocked  through  trade. 
Australia will continue to promote trade liberalization 
through 
through 
regional and sector-specific deals, and through bilateral 
free  trade  negotiations.  The  Australian  Government 
aims  to  build  a  network  of  bilateral  and  regional 
free-trade  agreements.  We  will  work  in  the  World 
Trade Organization to rebuild the multilateral trading 
agenda.  Australia  puts  the  highest  priority  on  global 
economic  reform  and  trade  liberalization  as  the  best 
way to secure jobs and economic growth. These will be 
key themes for us as we chair the Group of 20 in 2014.
No  one  should  pretend  that  the  economic  sphere 
exists  in  isolation  from  other  parts  of  our  human 
experience. Economic progress alone is not sufficient. 
We need to ensure that all people around the world are 
free to fully exercise their economic, civil and political 
rights.  Australia  was  one  of  eight  nations  involved  in 
drafting  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
and  in  1948  the  Australian  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  our  Foreign  Minister  Mr.  H.  V.  Evatt, 
oversaw the adoption of the Declaration (see A/PV.183).
Since  then,  Australia  has  been  at  the  forefront  of 
defending human rights globally and regionally in  support  
of  equality  and  fundamental  freedoms  —  freedom 
from  discrimination;  freedom  from  slavery,  torture, 
arbitrary arrest, detention or exile; freedom of speech, 
conscience  and  religion;  freedom  to  work,  to  enjoy 
health  and  education  and  to  participate  in  the  life  of 
the  community.  Importantly,  these  freedoms  must 
extend to all women and girls, including through equal 
access to employment, resources, education and health 
services, and they must be underpinned by robust and 
independent legal systems to enforce economic, social 
and political rights.
Australia  will  continue  to  promote  and  protect 
human  rights  standards  around  the  world.  That  is 
why we are seeking membership of the Human Rights 
Council for the 2018-2020 term.
The first obligation of any Government is to protect 
its own citizens. In 2005, leaders of all States Members 
of the United Nations signed on to this principle in the 
World Summit Outcome on the responsibility to protect 
(resolution 60/1). Australia, as current President of the 
Security  Council,  will  therefore  co-sponsor  a  draft 
resolution  before  the  Council  that  condemns  in  the 
strongest terms any use of chemical weapons. The draft 
resolution will make clear, for the first time, that the use 
of chemical weapons is a threat to international peace 
and  security,  and  in  doing  so  set  a  new  international 
norm that will help to deter future use. It will say that 
those  responsible  for  using  such  weapons  must  be 
brought to justice — a call we strongly endorse.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  draft  resolution  sets 
out  in  no  uncertain  terms  that  the  Al-Assad  regime 
must comply fully with the requirement to destroy its 
chemical weapons. The Organization for the Prohibition 
of  Chemical  Weapons  now  needs  strong  international 
support for its role in the destruction of Syria’s chemical 
weapons.
Australia will also continue to press for the Council 
to take action to assist the humanitarian effort in Syria 
and,  of  course,  provide  our  full  backing  to  efforts  to 
find a political solution in accordance with the Geneva 
communiqué  (S/2012/523,  annex)  that  leads  to  a 
cessation  of  violence  and  a  political  transition  which 
meets the aspirations of all Syrians.
But  we  cannot  just  focus  on  a  single  instance  of 
global security, for we are engaged on security challenges 
around the world, including in the Indo-Pacific region. 
Through our Security Council membership, we draw on 
lessons  learned  from  our  experience  in  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding  and  take  forward  initiatives  that 
are meaningful to our region. We welcome the strong 
support which the Security Council gave yesterday to 
Australia’s  resolution  2117  (2013)  on  small  arms  and 
light  weapons.  These  weapons  are  a  major  driver  of 
many conflicts that are brought to the attention of the 
Council.
44/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
led 
When  Australia 
the  Regional  Assistance 
Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands  (RAMSI)  13  years 
ago  with  our  friends  from  New  Zealand,  Papua  New 
Guinea  and  other  countries  of  the  Pacific,  one  of  the 
first tasks the Mission faced was to restore peace and 
security. RAMSI moved quickly to secure the surrender 
of  firearms  —  an  early  and  decisive  action  that 
underpinned  the  peace  that  was  built  and  maintained 
over  the  next  10  years.  And  women  played  a  crucial 
part.
That  is  why,  throughout  the  Pacific,  we  are 
supporting efforts to strengthen women’s participation 
in  policing,  through  recruitment,  retention,  training 
and  mentoring  support.  In  the  Philippines,  Australia 
is  funding  women’s  participation  in  peace  processes 
that  bring  together  Muslim,  Christian  and  indigenous 
women.  And  we  continue  to  build  on  our  record  on 
security, disarmament and peacekeeping. As co-author 
of the draft resolution, we worked to secure the adoption 
of  the  world’s  first  Arms  Trade  Treaty  (resolution 
67/234 B), which has now been signed by the majority 
of  the  United  Nations  membership,  with  a  further  18 
signatories  being  obtained  during  the  course  of  this 
week.
Outside  of  the  Council,  we  work  directly  with 
countries in our region to build their security. Australia 
commends the efforts of Timor-Leste and the Group of 
Seven Plus countries emerging from conflict, including 
Solomon  Islands  and  Afghanistan,  in  their  efforts  to 
promote the rule of law, civil and political institutions 
and a strong private sector.
The United Nations is a vital forum for the security 
and  prosperity  of  our  world.  That  is  what  Harry 
Truman, President of the United States at the time the 
United Nations was founded, imagined when he spoke 
of a “world fabric of international security and growing 
prosperity”.  No  community  can  build  lives,  families 
and  nations  in  the  absence  of  stability,  predictability 
and security. No country can ensure the security of its 
people without an economy that offers them the dignity 
to pursue lives they value.
As you have made clear, Mr. President, the task the 
United Nations takes on this year and next, setting the 
stage for the post-2015 development agenda, is one that 
could set the course of humankind for decades to come. 
On behalf of the people of Australia, I wish all nations 
well in taking on that task, and commit Australia to play 
its part. Together, we will strive to build the prosperity 
that  underpins  and  supports  international  peace  and 
security.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Franciscus Cornelis Gerardus Maria Timmermans, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands.
Mr.  Timmermans  (Netherlands):  This  year,  we 
celebrate  the  centennial  of  the  Peace  Palace  in  The 
Hague, seat of the International Court of Justice (ICC) 
and the Permanent Court of Arbitration, and symbol of 
the pursuit of peace by means of law. Next year, we will 
commemorate the centennial of the first of two suicidal 
world wars that caused unspeakable human suffering, 
horrible crimes against humanity and the oppression of 
half of Europe’s population until the Berlin wall came 
down in 1989.
Out  of  the  ashes  of  those  global  conflagrations 
grew the desire of the peoples of the world to put an end 
to  violent  conflict  and  to  guarantee  human  rights  for 
every human being in every country. “Never again” is 
what humankind wanted. Unfortunately, so far it is not 
what we have been able to deliver to everyone.
During  the  festive  celebrations  this  year  in  The 
Hague,  which  gave  fresh  impetus  to  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, there were scenes of unspeakable 
violence  in  Syria,  including  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons. More recently, in Nairobi, dozens of people 
were  killed  by  terrorists.  One  of  the  victims  was  Dr. 
Elif  Yavuz,  a  young  Dutch  woman  who  was  eight 
months pregnant with her first baby. My heart goes out 
to Dr. Yavuz’s family, to all the victims of the Nairobi 
attack and to their loved ones.
The powerlessness of the international community 
to  put  an  end  to  abuses  like  those  has  led  in  the  past 
to  the  establishment  of  new  bodies  and  instruments. 
After  the  Second  World  War,  the  United  Nations  was 
founded  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights was adopted. Following more recent genocides, 
the International Criminal Court was established. The 
use of chemical weapons by Saddam Hussein led to the 
Chemical  Weapons  Convention  and  the  Organization 
for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW). 
So  the  institutions  and  instruments  are  in  place.  The 
question  is,  what  is  preventing  them  from  delivering 
results? Perhaps the answer to the question was given 
already four centuries ago by Dutch philosopher Baruch 
Spinoza  when  he  wrote:  “Peace  is  not  an  absence  of 
13-48784
45/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
war;  it  is  a  virtue,  a  state  of  mind,  a  disposition  for 
benevolence, confidence, justice”.
It is my conviction that the international community 
must keep working on the project we launched a hundred 
years ago. We should follow the example of Dr. Yavuz, 
who  was  committed  to  helping  people  suffering  from 
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  We  should  work  to  achieve 
her aims and uphold her ideals. We should make clear 
that terrorism will never triumph. We should invest in 
the United Nations and support it as effectively as we 
can.  We  strongly  support  the  Secretary-General  and 
the message he delivered here on Tuesday (A/68/PV.5). 
We  will  join  him  on  the  road  to  peace,  justice  and 
development.
The  Netherlands  advocates  a  coherent  agenda  for 
strengthening the international legal order. A peaceful 
world demands a sustainable legal order and a powerful 
agenda  for  development.  It  demands  a  strategy  for 
disarmament  and  a  focus  on  human  rights.  Those  are 
the principles of the foreign policy of the Netherlands. 
A partnership for peace, justice and development is the 
cornerstone of the Dutch candidacy for a non-permanent 
seat in the Security Council in 2017-2018.
The world was shocked to discover that an attack 
with  chemical  weapons  had  taken  place  in  Syria 
on  21  August.  The  attack  violated  one  of  the  most 
important peremptory norms of international law. The 
1925 Geneva Protocol, to which Syria is a party, bans 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons.  The  situation  in  Syria 
poses a clear threat to international peace and security. 
The Netherlands calls on the Security Council to take 
concerted  action  to  address  that  threat.  We  have  just 
heard from the representative of Australia what is going 
to happen today.
Mrs.  Bruell-Melchior  (Monaco),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Syria  does  not  comply  with  the  international 
norm  that  requires  it  to  protect  its  citizens.  But  the 
international  community  also  has  a  responsibility. 
The Netherlands supports the proposal that permanent 
Security  Council  members  should  henceforth  refrain 
from  using  their  veto  power  in  votes  on  intervention 
to  stop  the  mass  atrocity  crimes  identified  by  the 
2005  World  Summit.  They  should  show  that  they  are 
serious about their responsibility to protect vulnerable 
populations, underlining our consensus that genocide, 
war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  ethnic 
cleansing must never be tolerated.
As  the  Secretary-General  said,  those  responsible 
for the atrocities in Syria should be held accountable in 
accordance with international law. The use of chemical 
weapons is a war crime under the Rome Statute. If the 
Syrian Government itself sees no possibility of tracking 
down and prosecuting the guilty parties, it can ask the 
ICC to do so. If Syria makes no request, the Security 
Council  must  take  action.  Finally,  as  the  Secretary-
General also said, we can hardly be satisfied with the 
destruction of chemical weapons while the wider war 
continues to destroy Syria and kill innocent people. A 
peaceful  solution  is  needed.  And  the  women  of  Syria 
should be involved in making that happen, as there can 
be no solution without them.
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, 
peace  and  security  provides  an  outstanding  tool  for 
promoting inclusive conflict resolution. This week we 
hosted a side event marking the importance of women’s 
political participation for successful transitions in the 
Middle East and North Africa. The Executive Director 
of  UN-Women  told  me  earlier  this  week  that  courage 
is every woman’s middle name. It certainly is in Syria.
The  Netherlands  supports  John  Kerry’s  efforts  to 
encourage Israel and the Palestinian Authority to arrive 
at a two-State solution through direct negotiations. The 
international  community  should  support  the  Israeli-
Palestinian talks. Only a political solution can lead to 
lasting peace.
Fifty  years  ago,  United  States  President  John  F. 
Kennedy  expressed  the  fear  that  in  the  1970s  there 
would  be  15,  20  or  even  25  nuclear-weapon  States. 
Thanks in part to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons, that danger was averted, but the 
risk of further proliferation of nuclear weapons has not 
receded.  While  much  has  been  achieved  in  the  field 
of disarmament, there is still a long way to go. In his 
speech in Berlin in June, President Obama warned of 
the  danger  of  nuclear  weapons.  “As  long  as  nuclear 
weapons exist, we are not truly safe”, he said — and he 
is right. He plans to take new steps to reduce strategic 
nuclear  arsenals.  He  also  wants  to  make  substantial 
reductions in the number of United States and Russian 
non-strategic weapons in Europe. The Netherlands is in 
favour of those steps, strongly supports the efforts and 
wants to contribute to them.
In March of next year, the Nuclear Security Summit 
will convene in The Hague. My country’s hosting of the 
Summit is in keeping with our tradition as a country of 
46/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
peace, justice and security. Nuclear materials can play 
an  important  role  in  curing  our  illnesses  and  heating 
our homes. And fortunately, the likelihood of terrorists 
using nuclear materials in an attack is small. But if it 
did  happen,  the  consequences  for  the  world  would  be 
very serious indeed.
The  Nuclear  Security  Summit  is  meant  to  give 
fresh  impetus  to  global  efforts  to  ensure  nuclear 
security and prevent nuclear terrorism by making and 
implementing  agreements  at  the  highest  multilateral 
level.  Governments,  businesses, 
researchers  and 
organizations  from  many  countries  are  working 
together to reduce the quantities of nuclear materials, 
to  enhance  the  security  of  the  materials  that  remain, 
and to combat nuclear smuggling.
The  centennial  of  the  Peace  Palace  is  a  good 
occasion  to  highlight  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  The  Netherlands  has  used  the  celebrations 
to strengthen instruments for peaceful settlement. We 
advocate taking three interrelated steps.
First, we need to encourage countries to recognize 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court 
of  Justice.  As  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
we  recognize  the  Court  as  a  principal  organ  of  the 
United Nations. In my view, recognizing its compulsory 
jurisdiction  is  a  logical  and  necessary  next  step. 
Secondly,  we  must  help  countries  realize  how  useful 
and flexible arbitration is as a way of settling disputes. 
The Security Council and the General Assembly could 
draw  parties’  attention  to  that  instrument  more  often 
and  we  should  advocate  it  more  often  in  the  public 
debate.  Thirdly,  we  must  reduce  the  obstacles  to  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes by making alternatives 
available. This is why the Netherlands enthusiastically 
supports  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  and 
non-governmental organization that promote mediation.
In his 2011 report on the responsibility to protect 
(A/65/877), 
the  Secretary-General  rightly  pointed 
out  the  importance  of  mediation  as  a  means  of 
preventing  atrocity  crimes.  National  legal  systems 
are  the  foundation  of  the  international  legal  order. 
Strengthening  national  legal  systems  should  make  it 
possible  to  keep  the  courtrooms  of  the  International 
Criminal Court closed.
The ICC is inextricably linked to the global chain 
of  legal  institutions.  It  delivers  justice  in  the  wake  of 
international  crimes,  thus  helping  to  prevent  future 
offences.  So  it  is  crucial  that  countries  continue  to 
accede  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  that  popular  support 
for it be maintained. We need to ensure that countries 
that have acceded to the Statute continue to work with 
the ICC.
This  year  marks  the  sixty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Vienna  Declaration. 
The  Universal  Declaration  is  an  enduring  source  of 
inspiration. It was adopted without a single dissenting 
vote under the inspired leadership of Eleanor Roosevelt, 
who  acted  as  a  change  agent  before  the  expression 
was  coined.  Just  before  the  vote  she  said,  “We  stand 
today at the threshold of a great event both in the life 
of the United Nations and in the life of mankind” (see 
A/PV.180).
The  World  Conference  on  Human  Rights  in 
Vienna  underlined  that  human  rights  are  universal, 
indivisible,  interdependent  and  interrelated.  Twenty 
years after Vienna, the blueprints of our human rights 
infrastructure  are  complete.  Now  it  is  time  to  ensure 
the necessary implementation, political will, capacity, 
financial  resources  and  treaty  body  reforms.  To  that 
end, Dutch human rights policy stresses the importance 
of  forging  trilateral  partnerships  in  different  regions 
of  the  world.  We  focus  on  protecting  human  rights 
defenders and promoting LGBT and women’s rights.
Without  development,  there  can  be  no  global 
peace  and  security.  We  are  fast  approaching  2015, 
and  have  made  great  progress.  In  the  next  two  years 
we  can  still  make  a  difference  and  advance  towards 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  post-2015 
development  agenda  will  also  benefit  from  a  single, 
unified  framework.  We  cannot  talk  about  the  plight 
of  the  world’s  poorest  people  in  isolation  from  the 
environmental problems endangering life on our planet. 
It is crucial to ensure that development is sustainable so 
that we can balance and integrate its economic, social 
and ecological dimensions. Peace, security and the rule 
of law constitute a fourth vital element of sustainable 
development.
The  key  words  for  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  are  better  aid,  more  trade  and  stronger  policy 
coherence  for  sustainable  development.  Also,  we 
need to promote women’s rights. That includes sexual 
and  reproductive  health  and  rights,  as  well  as  equal 
opportunity.  I  have  four  children  —  two  of  them  are 
girls. It would be unbearable for me, as a parent, if they 
did not have equal opportunity as their brothers.
13-48784
47/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
It goes without saying that a nation that was built 
by claiming its lands from the sea is concerned when 
rising sea levels might endanger that claim. Therefore, 
we feel a strong solidarity with other countries that are 
threatened in the same way. The Netherlands wants to 
strengthen  the  synergy  between  climate  and  poverty-
reduction policies, particularly in the field of water and 
food security.
Exactly 75 years ago today, British Prime Minister 
Chamberlain said, in a radio address on the Sudetenland 
crisis,
“How  horrible,  fantastic,  incredible  it  is  that  we 
should be digging trenches and trying on gas-masks 
here  because  of  a  quarrel  in  a  far  away  country 
between people of whom we know nothing.”
Czechoslovakia  was  dismembered  shortly  afterwards. 
That  was  not  just  the  fault  of  the  signatories  of 
the  Munich  Agreement.  The  entire 
international 
community  —  especially  Czechoslovakia’s  fellow 
democracies in Europe, including my own country, the 
Netherlands — looked the other way.
Today we can no longer pretend to know nothing of 
quarrels in faraway countries or of the people who live 
there. If we fail, it is not because of the deficiency of the 
legal instruments that we have developed. It is because 
of  the  international  community’s  deficient  sense  of 
responsibility.  It  is  our  duty  to  take  responsibility  in 
addressing the crisis in Syria.
The  Secretary-General  talked  earlier  this  week 
about  leadership  and  identified  Nelson  Mandela  as  a 
shining example. I wish we would all listen to “Madiba” 
more often. On Syria, we should follow the Secretary-
General’s lead and make peace and justice a reality.
Investing  in  the  United  Nations  is  an  investment 
in  our  common  future.  We  are  shareholders  with  a 
long-term interest. We need to have the instruments for 
peace,  justice  and  development  ready  for  the  moment 
that  they  can  help  avert  catastrophe.  That  is  why  we 
invested  in  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical  Weapons,  which  has  now  proved  crucial  in 
the Syrian crisis. That is why we should invest in the 
legitimacy  and  effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council. 
That is why we should work as hard as we can to come 
up  with  a  clear  and  ambitious  post-2015  sustainable 
development  agenda.  We  are  all  in  this  together;  we 
should invest together in our United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Basile Ikouebe, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  La  Francophonie  of  the  Republic 
of the Congo.
Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke 
in  French):  At 
the  beginning  of  this  week,  at  the  opening  of  the 
general  debate,  the  international  community  strongly 
condemned  the  heinous  attacks  that  have  once  again 
struck Kenya. That situation should lead us to reflect 
on our ability to prevent, manage and settle conflicts. 
Kenya’s tragedy is to be situated near the territory of 
Somalia,  which  for  too  long  has  been  left  to  terrorist 
groups.  The  lesson  is  to  avoid  the  creation  of  any 
vacuum that could serve as fertile ground for subversive 
movements. That is why in Central Africa the member 
States  of  the  subregional  community  have  reacted 
quickly to the risk of the “Somalization” of the Central 
African Republic ever since the beginning of the crisis 
there, despite our limited resources.
The  dialogue  on  the  humanitarian  crisis  in  the 
Central  African  Republic  that  we,  the  partners  of 
that  ravaged  country,  held  recently  in  New  York,  on 
25  September,  clearly  indicated  that  the  international 
community  has  taken  stock  of  the  challenge  and 
has  decided  to  resolutely  provide  assistance  to  the 
Central  African  Republic  on  the  political,  security, 
humanitarian,  economic  and  financial  levels,  and  to 
ensure  that  it  has  a  successful  transition,  like  that  of 
Mali, a country which we commend and which deserves 
all our attention and solidarity today as it did yesterday.
Therefore,  beyond  the  humanitarian  emergency, 
the  Central  African  Republic  must  be  given  all  the 
resources  necessary  to  restore  the  authority  of  the 
State, enable its Administration to operate, revive the 
economy  and  prepare  for  elections.  An  international 
support  mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
is  being  established  under  African  leadership.  We 
encourage  the  Security  Council  to  swiftly  adopt  a 
resolution supporting that initiative, which is aimed at 
creating the necessary conditions to restore peace and 
security, which would ensure the much-needed stability 
and  the  effective  implementation  of  the  transition 
road  map.  As  a  mediator  and  as  chair  of  the  follow-
up committee of the Economic Community of Central 
African States on the situation in the Central African 
Republic  monitoring  that  crisis,  the  Congo  can  only 
welcome that very encouraging development.
48/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
Also in the context of my country’s neighbourhood, 
by  participating  in  the  signing  of  the  Peace,  Security 
and  Cooperation  Framework  for 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Region,  which  took 
place on 24 February, President Denis Sassou Nguesso 
reaffirmed his commitment to a foreign policy aimed at 
peace and security in the world in general and in Africa, 
particularly  in  Central  Africa  and  the  Great  Lakes 
Region. In doing so, he favoured the quest for peaceful 
solutions and showed his willingness to continue along 
that path. The various consultations he has initiated in 
the  context  of  the  implementation  of  the  Framework 
agreement and the appeals directed to him demonstrate 
his approach.
In  that  spirit,  the  Congo  is  pleased  with  the 
conclusions  of  the  Second  Meeting  of  States  Parties 
to the Framework Agreement, which was held in New 
York on 23 September. We commend the leadership of 
the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, while we call 
for those efforts to culminate in talks in Kampala.
Just  two  years  ago,  we  welcomed  the  wave  of 
popular uprisings — the so-called Arab Spring, which 
led  to  the  fall  of  some  political  regimes  in  the  Arab 
world,  sometimes  by  force  of  arms.  We  welcomed 
those  movements,  just  as  we  welcomed  the  enormous 
changes that transformed the European landscape after 
the fall of the Berlin wall, in 1989. Today, in view of 
the  developments  in  some  of  those  countries,  whose 
populations  aspired  and  still  legitimately  aspire  to 
freedom,  democracy  and  social  justice,  I  cannot  fail 
to  recall  the  remarks  that  I  made  from  this  rostrum 
during the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly 
(see A/66/PV.27). I called then for greater caution and 
prudence,  convinced  that  the  overthrow  of  a  political 
regime  does  not  necessarily  bring  freedom  and 
democracy,  since  they  must  be  won  and  nurtured  by 
other victories that cannot be imposed from the outside.
The situations we have just mentioned are replete 
with lessons, not just because of the internal instability 
that may result from them, but also and above all because 
of their unpredictable negative impact on regional and 
international peace and security.
It  that  regard,  I  shall  mention  other  challenges  to 
international  peace  and  security,  particularly  those 
of  the  Syrian  tragedy,  which  is  unfolding  relentlessly 
before  our  eyes,  and  the  untenable  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, which has consumed so many human lives and 
so much energy and time.
With regard to the situation in Syria, my delegation 
strongly  condemns  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  and 
welcomes  the  Syrian  Government’s  adherence  to 
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  and  its  decision 
to  place  its  stockpile  of  chemical  weapons  under 
international control for destruction. Nevertheless, we 
believe that only a political solution can put an end to 
the martyrdom of the Syrian people and the fratricidal 
war that has already killed more than 100,000 people. 
That  is  why  the  Congo  welcomes  the  United  States-
Russian  agreement  and  the  discussions  under  way  in 
the  Security  Council  on  the  adoption  of  a  resolution 
that would mark the first steps in a process that will, 
we hope, in the near future, bring together the Syrian 
actors  and  all  parties  involved  around  a  table  in  the 
framework of a conference for peace in Syria. In that 
regard, once again, we believe that the focus must be 
placed on finding a peaceful solution.
time  as  Syria 
to 
eliminate  its  stockpile  of  chemical  weapons,  it  is 
appropriate to recall one of the most serious threats to 
humankind —  the  nuclear  danger.  It  is  indeed  urgent 
for the nuclear-weapon States, as well as for those that 
have  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  including 
biological  weapons,  to  implement  concrete  measures 
enabling the elimination of those arsenals and making 
progress  towards  real  disarmament,  while  ensuring 
respect  for  the  prohibition  of  nuclear  proliferation  for 
military purposes. This is also the moment to commend 
the overtures made here by Iran concerning its nuclear 
programme.
is  agreeing 
At 
the  same 
Last  year,  the  Congo  supported  the  General 
Assembly’s historic decision to confer United Nations 
non-Member observer State status on Palestine. It was 
a  symbolic  act  that  the  Assembly  welcomed  almost 
unanimously.  The  new  American  initiative  designed 
to  relaunch  the  Israeli-Palestinian  talks  also  deserves 
the support of the entire international community. Here 
too,  the  Congo  encourages  dialogue  and  rejects  any 
recourse to force or violence.
Given  the  current  series  of  political  crises  and  in 
the spirit of peace and justice, how can we fail to ask 
that the embargo unjustly imposed on the Cuban people 
for  five  decades  be  lifted?  That  unilateral  decision  is 
contrary to the principles and values of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  to  international  order,  based 
on  non-interference  in  a  State’s  internal  affairs  and 
peaceful cooperation.
13-48784
49/51
A/68/PV.15 
27/09/2013
The  damage  done  by  the  economic  and  financial 
crisis  that  recently  shook  the  world  is  far  from  being 
repaired; even if here and there we can see some signs 
of  recovery,  they  are  unfortunately  not  capable  of 
relaunching sustained growth. The progress that about 
40 developing countries have made has definitely led to 
some rebalancing of power, as the Human Development 
Report  2013  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme indicates. However, the fruits of that growth 
are unequally distributed. Similarly, the disparities both 
within countries and between rich and poor countries 
once again raises the problem of inequality and social 
justice, which often causes social unrest. Between now 
and  2015  there  will  be  numerous  African  countries 
that will not meet the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).
For  my  own  country,  there  has  been  significant 
progress  in  achieving  the  MDGs,  especially  those 
relating  to  education  and  maternal  and  child  health, 
thanks  to  my  Government’s  efforts  and  initiatives  in 
areas  such  as  abolishing  school  fees,  providing  free 
textbooks,  recruiting  teachers  and  providing  free 
Caesarean  sections,  vaccinations  and  antiretroviral 
treatments.  However,  progress  has  been  somewhat 
slow  in  fighting  poverty  and  promoting  decent  jobs. 
Nonetheless,  combating  poverty  remains  a  major 
concern to which my Government accords high priority 
through  investment  programmes  in  health,  education, 
professional 
infrastructure,  agricultural 
production, forestry and mining.
training, 
We  have  reasons  to  hope  for  progress  between 
now and 2015. The national context is being prepared. 
The Republic of the Congo enjoys reassuring stability 
and  a  favourable  economic  environment.  Lasting 
peace  has  been  established.  We  are  consolidating  the 
democratic process, which is strengthened by a regular 
dialogue  between  the  Government  and  the  opposition 
on organizing peaceful elections. My country has also 
built a harmonious overall framework for implementing 
its  development  policy,  focused  on  modernizing  and 
industrializing the country on the basis of our national 
development plan for 2012-2016.
The  favourable  rise  in  the  price  of  petroleum 
products and other natural resources such as wood has 
enabled  my  country  to  register  significant  increases 
in  its  economic  growth  rate,  now  over  5  per  cent  per 
year since 2010, allowing for inflation. That economic 
improvement  has  notably  benefited  State  revenues, 
which have been going up steadily. The Republic of the 
Congo  has  also  benefited  from  substantial  debt  relief 
after  reaching  the  completion  point  for  the  Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in January 2010 and 
will  from  now  on  have  more  resources  available  for 
national development programmes, particularly in the 
social sectors.
Structural reforms undertaken through the Extended 
Credit Facility of the International Monetary Fund have 
enabled us to make essential progress in managing the 
public finances and macroeconomic stabilization. The 
business climate continues to improve. Other measures 
have  been  taken  to  enable  the  Congo  to  speed  up  its 
achievement of the MDGs between now and 2015.
The  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20)  outlined  for  us 
“The future we want”. Ambassador Ashe, who was one 
of the co-facilitators of the Rio+20 process and is now 
the President of the General Assembly, is therefore well 
placed  to  help  us  to  set  the  stage  that  will  enable  us 
to  reach  the  horizon  that  is  the  future  we  want.  “The 
post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage” is the 
theme of the current session. It invites us to establish the 
foundations for another vision of development, focused 
on  poverty  eradication  and  human  development. 
My  delegation  agrees  with  the  President  that  what  is 
needed is an ambitious, bold programme that takes new 
and  emerging  development  challenges  into  account 
and  that  better  integrates  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental aspects of sustainable development.
The  Congo,  a  country  in  the  forested  Congo 
basin,  can  only  concur  with  that  view.  The  Congo’s 
commitment to sustainable development at the national 
level,  as  well  as  at  the  regional  and  international 
levels,  has  been  unflagging.  It  is  in  that  context  that, 
after having spoken for Africa throughout the Rio+20 
process, the Congo has continued its active commitment 
within the framework of the Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals. Once those sustainable 
development goals have been defined, there remains the 
vital issue of how to finance sustainable development, 
which  will  be  tackled  by  establishing  a  committee  of 
experts on the issue.
It  is  regrettable  that  the  issue  of  climate  change, 
which affects all humankind, is still suffering from a 
lack of consensus. Permit me to revisit a subject of deep 
concern for developing countries such as ours, namely, 
the issue of financing the fight against climate change, 
which should be a central element in our negotiations. 
For our part, we affirm the importance of supporting 
50/51 
13-48784
27/09/2013 
A/68/PV.15
in  establishing 
developing  countries 
low-carbon 
regimes  that  can  adapt  to  climate  change  in  order  to 
tackle the worldwide problem that humankind is facing.
In  regard  to  the  programme  entitled  “Reducing 
Deforestation  and  Forest  Degradation  and  Enhancing 
Environmental  Services 
in  Tropical  Forests”, 
established  by 
the  International  Tropical  Timber 
Council,  the  Congo  welcomes  the  consensus  on  the 
importance of participation by all countries, according 
to  their  capacity  and  national  context,  in  the  fight 
against  deforestation, 
forest  degradation  and  of 
increasing stocks of forest carbon, which is responsible 
for  almost  20  per  cent  of 
total  greenhouse-gas 
emissions.  Our  interest  in  conserving  nature  and 
protecting  wildlife  has  impelled  us  to  launch  a  fierce 
fight  against  poaching.  In  that  context,  next  year  the 
Congo  is  organizing  a  major  international  meeting 
on  combating  that  scourge.  Participants  will  include 
political and technical stakeholders involved in wildlife 
management, countries that buy wildlife products, and 
international organizations.
The world has changed, and we must deal with the 
new geopolitical challenges that have helped new forces 
to  emerge  onto  the  international  scene.  Every  living 
organism must evolve. The United Nations, which we 
would  like  to  see  become  more  transparent,  dynamic 
and democratic, cannot avoid that law of nature.
As President John F. Kennedy noted as early as in 
1963, at the eighteenth session of the General Assembly,
“The United Nations cannot survive as a static 
Organization. Its obligations are increasing as well 
as its size. Its Charter must be changed as well as its 
customs. The authors of that Charter did not intend 
that it be frozen in perpetuity.” (A/PV.1209, p. 7)
We are therefore at the heart of an important and timely 
debate.
reform 
is 
United  Nations 
therefore  urgent 
and  possible.  It  must  be  based  on  the  principles  of 
democracy, justice and equality. In that regard, the cycle 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Council should lead, through a consensual 
framework, to concrete results. That reform is part of 
the will of the Member States to make the Organization 
an  institution  that  expresses  the  values    of  modernity 
and is open to the future, a sanctuary for builders of the 
future of the world, a world where planetary challenges 
require concerted global solutions, a world that is being 
built on the bedrock of solidarity, unity, mutual respect 
and tolerance.
The meeting rose at 2.55 p.m.
13-48784
51/51
