United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
55th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 November 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.55
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 37
The situation in Afghanistan
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/609)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.11)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Germany to introduce draft resolution 
A/68/L.11.
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  It  is  an  honour  for  my 
country to introduce this year’s draft resolution on the 
situation in Afghanistan (A/68/L.11).
Transition  in  the  areas  of  security,  politics  and 
economics has made remarkable progress this past year 
under  strong  Afghan  leadership.  The  year  2014  will 
once again be a year marked by such pivotal events as 
the presidential elections in April and the termination 
of the International Security Assistance Force at the end 
of the year. As we approach those watershed moments, 
the  long-term  partnership  between  Afghanistan  and 
the  international  community  is  evolving.  However, 
it  is  essential  to  understand  that  redefining  that  very 
relationship  should  reinforce  it.  That  is  also  the  core 
message of the draft resolution before us today. Allow 
me to briefly highlight five core elements of the draft 
resolution.
First,  with  respect  to  transition  in  the  area  of 
security,  on  18  June,  President  Karzai  announced  the 
final  tranche  of  the  transition  process.  The  Afghan 
National Security Forces are now in the lead to provide 
security throughout the country. Since the inception of 
the transition process, the Afghan National Army and 
Police  have  continuously  improved  their  capacities. 
Yet  challenges  remain,  and  the  achievements  made 
so  far  remain  fragile.  The  draft  resolution  therefore 
underlines  the  international  community’s  resolve  to 
support the Afghan security forces during the transition 
and  beyond  and  reiterates  the  commitment  made  at 
the  Chicago  Summit  in  2012  to  sustain  international 
support for the Afghan security forces  beyond 2014.
We  welcome  the  convening  of  a  loya  jirga  to 
decide on a security agreement with the United States. 
That  agreement  will  constitute  a  cornerstone  in  the 
architecture  of  international  support  to  Afghanistan 
in  the  years  to  come.  The  German  Government  has 
offered  to  continue  supporting  the  Afghan  National 
Security  Forces  in  their  challenging  effort  to  provide 
security for the Afghan people. We are looking forward 
to working with our Afghan partners to set the legal and 
practical framework for that involvement in the coming 
months. In accordance with the Chicago Summit joint 
declaration, Germany will work towards a sound legal 
basis for our future cooperation, aiming at a Security 
Council resolution.
Secondly, the draft resolution is about the long-term 
commitment of the international community throughout 
the transformation decade. That commitment, declared 
by the Government of Afghanistan and its international 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-57251 (E)
*1357251*
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
partners at the Bonn Conference of 2011 and reaffirmed 
at  the  Tokyo  Conference  in  2012,  rests  firmly  on 
the  principle  of  mutuality.  Building  on  that  unique 
framework,  the  international  community  has  pledged 
$16 billion through 2015 in support of the economic and 
political stabilization of Afghanistan. It has committed 
itself to sustaining its support at or near levels of the 
past decade through 2017, in line with the principles of 
aid effectiveness.
The  Afghan  Government,  in  turn,  has  committed 
itself  to  achieving  its  governance  and  development 
goals in a determined manner. Indeed, during the past 
decade  Afghanistan  has  made  remarkable  progress 
in  a  variety  of  areas,  including  health,  education  and 
infrastructure.  However,  continued  efforts  are  of 
paramount importance to protecting and advancing the 
gains made in past years. In that context, I welcome the 
resolve of the Government of Afghanistan to fulfil its 
commitments within an accelerated time frame.
Thirdly, 
the  draft 
resolution  expresses  our 
appreciation  about  the  recent  progress  made  in  the 
preparation  of  presidential  and  provincial  council 
elections.  We  particularly  welcome  the  adoption  of  a 
legislative  framework  and  the  appointment  of  new 
members of the Independent Election Commission and 
the Independent Electoral Complaints Commission. A 
broad  range  of  political  leaders  have  announced  their 
candidacies to run in those historic elections. It is key 
that  the  exemplary  work  of  the  Afghan  authorities 
result in a legitimate outcome and that widely accepted 
election results yield a peaceful transfer of power.
The  electoral  process  is  just  one  example  of  the 
empowerment  and  leadership  of  Afghan  institutions. 
We expect to see similar ownership and dedication by 
the Government in maintaining the Afghan Independent 
Human Rights Commission as an effective institution 
for  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights. 
As  reflected  in  the  draft  resolution,  preserving  and 
consolidating gains in the protection and promotion of 
human rights and the equal participation of all members 
of society, especially women, in all spheres of Afghan 
life remains critical.
resolution 
reiterates 
Fourthly, 
the  draft 
the 
importance  of  the  Afghan-owned  and  Afghan-led 
peace  and  reconciliation  process.  For  that  process  to 
yield  sustainable  results,  it  needs  to  be  inclusive.  In 
that  context,  respect  for  the  Afghan  Constitution  and 
its human rights provisions — the rights of women in 
particular — is essential. The draft resolution expresses 
appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  in  advancing  the  process  and  reaffirms 
the continued support of the international community 
in that regard.
Finally, the Istanbul Heart of Asia Process, which 
aims  to  enhance  regional  cooperation  and  dialogue, 
is  another  pillar  for  a  peaceful  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan.  We  call  on  all  partners  and  supporters 
to  accelerate 
the  agreed 
confidence-building  measures  in  the  coming  months. 
We commend China for hosting the next Heart of Asia 
Ministerial Conference, in 2014, and we look forward 
to the Process gaining renewed momentum.
implementation  of 
the 
To conclude, I would like to express our gratitude 
to  all  delegations  that  participated  in  this  year’s 
informal  consultations,  in  particular  to  my  colleague 
Ambassador  Tanin  and  his  team  for  their  dedication 
and close cooperation.
By  adopting  the  draft  resolution  once  again  by 
consensus  today,  the  General  Assembly  will  reaffirm 
its commitment to a prosperous and peaceful future for 
Afghanistan  and  send  a  strong  message  of  support  to 
the Afghan Government and people.
Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan): We come together today 
to adopt this year’s draft resolution on the situation in 
Afghanistan  (A/68/L.11).  I  thank  all  Member  States 
that  participated  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  for  their 
support for the efforts of the Afghan Government and 
their solidarity with the Afghan people in their struggle 
to build a democratic, stable and prosperous future. We 
also thank Ambassador Peter Wittig and our colleagues 
at  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Germany  to  the  United 
Nations for facilitating the draft resolution.
As  we  gather  to  take  stock  of  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan,  we  are  mindful  of  the  monumental 
progress made to date. From the ashes of war, over the 
past 12 years a new State was founded on the basis of 
a  democratic  Constitution  and  the  will  of  the  Afghan 
people.  Afghanistan  regained  its  historical  place  as  a 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community, 
and  the  country  again  became  home  to  all  Afghans, 
all  ethnic  groups,  men  and  women.  Millions  of 
Afghan  refugees  who  had  escaped  war,  violence  and 
devastation  returned  home.  The  Afghan  flag  is  now 
raised in the far remote ends of the country and around 
the  world.  Today  millions  of  Afghan  boys  and  girls 
have  access  to  education.  Ninety  per  cent  of  people 
2/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
receive primary health care in hundreds of clinics and 
health  centres  countrywide.  We  made  tremendous 
progress  in  reducing  maternal  and  child  mortality, 
and  people  live  longer  and  with  more  certainty  about 
their future. Our vibrant civil society and independent 
media  are  emblematic  of  an  emerging  democracy  in 
the  region.  Big  steps  were  taken  to  restore  the  rights 
of women, elevate their status and strengthen their role 
in society. Afghan people enjoy their democratic rights 
and  freedoms,  which  are  guaranteed  by  the  Afghan 
Constitution. In summary, Afghanistan’s progress has 
been  huge  and,  to  a  larger  extent,  unprecedented  for 
a country that is still struggling to leave conflict and 
violence behind.
Following  a  decade  of  extraordinary  engagement 
by the international community in reconstruction and 
stabilization  efforts,  Afghanistan  is  moving  towards 
a  new  beginning  characterized  and  guided  by  the 
principles  of  national  ownership, 
leadership  and 
strengthened  sovereignty.  Tomorrow  in  Kabul,  the 
consultative  loya  jirga  will  confer  on  the  agreement 
that  is  at  the  core  of  strategic  relations  between 
Afghanistan and the United States. That is an important 
event, following the signing of the Enduring Strategic 
Partnership  Agreement  between  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  United  States  of  America 
on  1  May  2012,  following  15  months  of  negotiations 
between  the  Governments  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
United  States.  Representatives  of  the  Afghan  people 
will  have  their  say  on  the  pact,  which  will  shape  our 
future in a changing world.
In  four  months,  Afghanistan  will  hold  its  next 
presidential and provincial council elections. In a spirit 
of national unity, Afghans from all segments of society 
will go to the polls to choose the new leadership of the 
country. That will mark the first peaceful, democratic 
transfer of power from one elected President to another. 
All efforts are being made to ensure that the elections 
are  transparent,  credible,  free  and  fair.  The  inclusion 
of women as candidates, voters and active civil society 
members  is  essential  to  those  efforts.  The  Afghan 
people  expect  the  outcome  of  the  elections  to  further 
solidify political stability and to strengthen the gains of 
the past decade.
At the end of next year, we will enter a new phase 
when  the  international  military  forces  will  leave 
the  country.  Afghan  forces  assumed  full  security 
responsibility  in  June  and  will  be  in  charge  of  the 
security and defence of the country nationwide. Beyond 
2014,  training,  advising  and  assisting  the  Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  will  remain  imperative.  In 
that connection, we are in the process of determining, 
together with our NATO partners, the structure of the 
NATO post-2014 posture in the country.
As  we  look  to  the  future,  Afghanistan  is  focused 
on a number of immediate priorities that are key to the 
success  of  the  transition  and  achieving  lasting  peace 
and stability in the country.
First, on peace and reconciliation, the Government 
of  Afghanistan  is  continuing  its  efforts  to  achieve  a 
political  settlement,  reconciliation  and  secure  durable 
peace. Many attempts have been made in the past year 
to  restart  peace  talks  with  the  Taliban,  through  the 
vigilant  efforts  of  the  High  Peace  Council  as  well  as 
the framework of bilateral and trilateral initiatives. We 
have taken additional steps. Despite some setbacks, we 
are confident that we will reach a political solution. We 
continue our efforts to move the process forward, and 
we are encouraged by the commitment and cooperation 
of our brotherly country Pakistan, which is vital to the 
advancement of the peace and reconciliation process.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  regional  cooperation, 
peace and security in Afghanistan is inextricable from 
peace  and  prosperity  in  the  region.  We  are  working 
together  with  all  our  neighbours,  through  different 
forums  and  initiatives,  to  enhance  cooperation  in  a 
number  of  areas.  The  Istanbul  Process  on  Regional 
Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and  Stable 
Afghanistan  is  central  to  our  goal  of  realizing  a 
secure, stable and prosperous region. We have come a 
long  way  in  enhancing  the  Process    by  strengthening 
the  framework  of  cooperation  through  dialogue  and 
by  focusing  on  a  concrete  set  of  confidence-building 
measures. The senior officials meeting of the Istanbul 
Process  held  in  New  York  in  September  was  another 
important step worward. We look forward to working 
closely  with  our  Chinese  partners  in  preparation  for 
the  upcoming  fourth  Ministerial  Conference  of  the 
Istanbul Process, to be held in Tianjin, China. In recent 
months,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  conducted  a 
number of high-level consultations with the leadership 
of neighbouring countries and countries in the region, 
aimed  at  furthering  cooperation  and  collaboration  for 
the region’s collective security and stability, particularly 
during the transition and beyond.
Thirdly, on  economic development, moving from 
a predominantly aid-dependent to a non-aid-dependent 
13-57251
3/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
economy is at the core of our economic transition. We 
are  improving  our  economy,  attracting  national  and 
international  private-sector  investment,  strengthening 
trade  and  seeking  to  make  the  most  of  our  rich  and 
untapped natural-resource supply, which will serve as 
the backbone of our economy in future.
It  is  important  to  emphasize  that  Afghanistan’s 
social and economic development also requires greater 
coherence and efficiency with regard to the provision of 
international assistance, as well as greater transparency 
and accountability. In that respect, we look forward to 
further  progress  in  meeting  the  mutual  commitments 
set out in the Tokyo Mutual Accountability Framework. 
For our part, we are vigorously pursuing inclusive and 
sustained  growth,  with  a  focus  on  strengthening  our 
infrastructure, and a sound legal policy and institutional 
environment,  which  is  essential  to  the  realization  of 
our  self-sufficiency  strategy  and  sustained  economic 
growth.  In  addition,  we  are  making  every  effort  to 
implement  our  national  development  strategy  by  way 
of  our  national  priority  programme,  into  which  our 
Millennium Development Goals have been integrated. 
We  underscore  the  importance  of  aligning  assistance 
with the national priority programme and channelling 
aid through our core budget.
Fourthly,  good  governance  and  strengthening  the 
rule of law have been central to our efforts. This year, 
new steps were taken towards improving governance at 
the national and local levels, including in the areas of 
administrative reforms and the fight against corruption. 
To that end, I should note that President Karzai’s decree 
of July 2012 continues to be implemented in Government 
ministries, organs, agencies and directorates.
is  grounded 
Our  good-governance  effort 
in 
a  comprehensive  approach 
that  entails  various 
components,  including  a  robust  effort  to  improve 
security and overcome the problem of narcotic drugs. 
The  nexus  between  narcotic  drugs,  criminality  and 
terrorism poses a serious threat to the rule of law. To 
that end, we are seriously engaged in implementing our 
national drug-control strategy, including our prioritized 
implementation  plan  and  benchmarks.  Nevertheless, 
we  underscore  once  again  that  a  real  solution  to 
the  problem  of  narcotic  drugs  relies  on  a  holistic 
approach that addresses all components — production, 
trafficking  and  consumption.  In  that  connection,  let 
me highlight again the importance of the principle of 
shared  responsibility  in  our  joint  efforts  to  defeat  the 
scourge of drugs. We emphasize, and are thankful for, 
continued  regional  and  international  support  in  our 
continued fight against that menace.
Lastly,  the  Afghan  Government  has  been  fully 
committed to its responsibilities to protect and promote 
the  rights  of  all  Afghan  people,  including  those  of 
women  and  girls.  By  virtue  of  our  Constitution,  all 
Afghans — the elderly, youth, men and women, boys and 
girls —  enjoy  more  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
today than ever before. We continue to take bold steps 
towards the advancement of women and their rights and 
to empower them as proactive members of society who 
contribute to building a new Afghanistan. In assessing 
the  plight  of  Afghan  women,  it  is  imperative  to  not 
lose  sight  of  the  gains  made  thus  far.  We  have  come 
a  long  way,  and  continued  support  and  commitment 
are  essential  to  the  advancement  of  women’s  rights 
in  the  country  as  we  proceed  into  the  transformation 
decade. We deem unacceptable any incident of violence 
or discrimination against women and are pursuing all 
cases with serious attention. Let me note that this year 
has seen notable progress in the implementation of the 
law to eliminate violence against women. Investigations 
and prosecution of alleged crimes against women have 
increased  significantly.  All  perpetrators  will  be  held 
accountable.
As  a  country  that  is  committed  to  the  principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, Afghanistan is fully aware 
of  the  importance  of  universal  values,  fundamental 
freedoms and rights, as enshrined in our Constitution. 
Afghanistan has throughout history been a diverse and 
tolerant  society,  respectful  of  the  customs,  traditions 
and religious beliefs of all peoples, including those of 
other faiths. By the same token, we underscore the need 
for awareness and respect for the cultural norms, values 
and beliefs of Afghan society. That will only serve to 
benefit our enduring partnership on the way forward.
The  coming  year  for  Afghanistan  is  crucial. 
We  are  embracing  the  challenges  of  the  future  with 
full  confidence.  Our  commitment  to  building  on  the 
achievements of the past is as strong as ever. We know 
that the journey we embarked upon more than a decade 
ago has not come to an end and that the way forward 
will not be free of challenges. But, if anything, today’s 
draft resolution is a manifestation of the prospects for 
success,  made  possible  by  the  enormous  sacrifices 
made  by  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  who  throughout 
history  have  demonstrated  resilience,  fortitude  and 
courage in overcoming the most difficult of obstacles 
4/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
and achieving success. Our international partners were 
central  to  those  efforts,  and  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  gratefully  thank  all  our  international 
friends and partners who stand with us in support and 
solidarity as we seek to complete the goal we set out to 
achieve in 2001.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Mayr-Harting (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Iceland and Serbia; the countries of the Stabilization and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine  and 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
Like  others,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan  for  his  statement.  I 
also  thank  all  delegations  that  participated  in  the 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  (A/68/L.11),  in 
particular  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Germany 
and his team for so ably facilitating the negotiations. We 
look forward once again to its adoption by consensus.
Afghanistan  has  achieved  considerable  political, 
security,  economic  and  development  progress  over 
the  past  decade.  The  draft  resolution  before  us  today 
highlights  many  of  those  advances,  for  which  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  Afghan  people 
deserve much credit. But the gains made are fragile and 
major challenges remain.
In the EU statement at the Security Council debate 
on  Afghanistan  on  19  September  (see  S/PV.7035),  we 
highlighted the role of institutions in Afghanistan and 
reiterated  that  the  full  implementation  of  the  Tokyo 
Mutual Accountability Framework remained paramount 
for a successful transition. We stressed the shift from 
a  military  to  a  civilian  focus  and  underlined  that  a 
political  solution  was  needed  for  long-term  stability 
and development in Afghanistan. We also emphasized 
that a future peace and reconciliation process should be 
Afghan-led and inclusive and should engage all parts of 
society. In this statement, we want to make a few brief 
remarks on the upcoming elections, human rights and, 
lastly, economic development and regional cooperation.
First, with regard to the upcoming presidential and 
provincial elections, it will be critical to Afghanistan’s 
future  that  the  elections  be  inclusive  and  transparent 
and  lead  to  a  legitimate  outcome.  We  are  very  much 
encouraged  by  the  progress  made  on  the  electoral 
preparations  by  the  Afghan  authorities  and  stress  the 
importance of appropriate measures to ensure security 
for voters and officials, to combat fraud and to promote 
women’s  participation.  We  also  believe  that  domestic 
and international election observation will be critical to 
the transparency and credibility of the electoral process. 
The willingness of the Government of Afghanistan to 
facilitate that observation is very much appreciated.
The  United  Nations  is,  in  our  view,  a  key  player 
in supporting Afghanistan’s electoral preparations, and 
will remain so post-2014. For our part, we are providing 
financial  and 
the  electoral 
oversight  institutions  and  to  voter  outreach  through 
the  electoral  assistance  programme  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme.  We  remain  firmly 
committed to supporting the Afghan electoral process 
over the coming months.
technical  support 
to 
Secondly, let me turn to human rights. Such rights, 
in  particular  concerning  the  situation  of  women  and 
girls,  have  advanced  considerably  in  the  past  decade. 
That  deserves  praise  but  also  demands  our  continued 
collective  efforts.  We  welcome  the  commitment  of 
the  Afghan  Government  to  implementing  Security 
Council resolution 1325 (2000) and all the subsequent 
resolutions  on  women  and  peace  and  security.  It  is 
significant  that  the  draft  resolution  we  will  adopt 
today contains a clear message from all Member States 
that  our  commitment  to  achieving  the  full  and  equal 
participation of women in all spheres of Afghan life is 
steadfast and unwavering. It is clear that the situation of 
women continues to require our attention, as it remains 
of considerable concern.
There is still much to be done to safeguard progress 
and  to  ensure  the  full  implementation  of  statutory 
provisions.  We  encourage  paying  particular  attention 
to the progressive implementation of the Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women,  the  National  Action  Plan  for  the  Women  of 
Afghanistan and the law on the elimination of violence 
against women. The completion and publication of the 
report on the implementation of that law will establish 
an important benchmark against which to judge future 
progress.
It  is  also  significant  that  today’s  draft  resolution 
recognizes  the  risks  faced  by  human  rights  defenders 
13-57251
5/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
in  Afghanistan.  Those  individuals,  groups  and  civil 
society organizations play a central role in protecting 
and  promoting  the  rights  of  others,  often  at  great 
personal  risk.  The  draft  resolution  rightly  condemns 
the  violence  against  them.  In  addition,  we  want  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan’s  reaffirmation  of  its  commitment  to 
maintaining  standards  to  retain  the  “A”  status  of  the 
Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission.
Finally,  I  would  say  a  word  on  economic 
development  and  regional  cooperation.  Afghanistan 
has  achieved  impressive  rates  of  economic  growth 
over the past decade. But, recently, the rate has slowed 
dramatically as investors wait to see the outcome of the 
elections and the transition process. It is critical that the 
Government of Afghanistan take all possible measures 
to improve the business and investment climate. In the 
short  term,  the  Government  must  show  leadership  to 
ensure that the mining law, the law on the value-added 
tax  and  the  anti-money-laundering  law  are  all  passed 
before the end of the current Administration.
Increased trade and investment can only strengthen 
and  support  the  welcome  initiatives  of  the  countries 
in the region within the Istanbul Process on Regional 
Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and  Stable 
Afghanistan.  To  take  the  Istanbul  Process  to  the  next 
level,  it  is  important  that  the  Heart  of  Asia  countries 
further  the  delivery  of  concrete  results  through  the 
implementation of confidence-building measures. The 
European  Union  itself  is  testament  to  how  increased 
economic links can provide the foundation for increased 
political and security cooperation.
In conclusion, it is important that the international 
community remain strongly committed to progress in 
Afghanistan over the long term. For our part, we will 
continue to support the transition process to promote the 
emergence of a fully self-reliant, peaceful, democratic 
and prosperous society for the benefit of all Afghans.
Mr. Aslov (Tajikistan): It gives me great pleasure, 
in  my  capacity  as  the  representative  of  the  country 
chairing 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
(SCO), to deliver this statement on behalf of the People’s 
Republic  of  China,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the 
Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation and my own 
country, the Republic of Tajikistan.
As  a  close  neighbour  of  the  SCO,  Afghanistan 
enjoys friendly relations with all SCO member States. 
Last  year,  Afghanistan  was  granted  observer  status 
in  the  SCO,  which  provided  new  opportunities  for 
cooperation with member States.
The SCO members have been closely following the 
process  of  strengthening  peace  and  reconstruction  in 
Afghanistan and support the development of cooperation 
between Afghanistan and the countries of the region on 
a bilateral and multilateral basis. We are pleased to see 
some positive developments in the economic and social 
spheres  in  Afghanistan,  in  particular  in  the  fields  of 
infrastructure development, the construction of roads, 
railways and power-transmission lines, health care and 
education.
We  support  the  efforts  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
international  community  to  address  the  problems 
of  the  transition  period,  reconciliation  and  post-
conflict  rehabilitation.  The  SCO  member  States  also 
support  efforts  to  make  Afghanistan  an  independent, 
neutral,  peaceful  and  prosperous  country  that  is  free 
of terrorism and drug-related crime. The SCO member 
States  emphasize  that  national  reconciliation,  as  an 
important component of any Afghan settlement, should 
be Afghan-led and Afghan-owned in order to facilitate 
the  early  achievement  of  peace  and  stability  in  the 
country. However, we believe that the process can have 
a  positive  effect  only  if  there  is  strict  compliance  by 
the insurgents with three basic principles, namely, they 
must  lay  down  their  weapons,  recognize  the  Afghan 
Constitution  and  break  ties  with  Al-Qaida  and  other 
terrorist and extremist organizations.
In  the  course  of  its  reconstruction,  Afghanistan 
still  faces  a  number  of  pressing  challenges  and 
problems. There is no complete stability in its security 
situation.  We  strongly  believe  that  increased  terrorist 
activities by the Taliban, Al-Qaida and other terrorists 
and extremists, along with illicit drug production and 
trafficking,  seriously  undermine  the  achievements 
in  the  security  sphere  within  the  country  and  beyond 
its borders. The tensions and internal conflicts in the 
country  remain  one  of  the  main  sources  of  threat  to 
regional security and stability.
We  believe 
the 
illicit  production, 
trade  and 
trafficking of drugs from Afghanistan to be a threat to 
international peace and stability. Countering the illicit 
production and trafficking of drugs remains one of the 
key components in achieving stability in Afghanistan. 
The  fight  against,  and  prevention  of,  the  illicit  drug 
trafficking that has turned the country into a breeding 
ground for international terrorism and organized crime 
6/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
should  be  an  integral  part  of  our  common  struggle 
against terrorism and extremism.
The  SCO  member  States  have  consistently 
supported  peaceful  reconstruction 
in  Afghanistan 
and  have  provided  all  feasible  support,  including 
humanitarian assistance, to the Afghan people. We are 
ready  to  continue  our  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening 
trade  and  economic  ties  between  SCO  members  and 
Afghanistan  in  order  to  achieve  social  and  economic 
progress  in  Afghanistan,  through  the  implementation 
of infrastructure, energy and transport projects, with a 
view to ensuring economic growth and creating jobs in 
the country.
We  believe  that  Afghanistan  should  be  involved 
in  the  multifaceted  regional  cooperation  process. 
The  involvement  of  neighbouring  countries  in  the 
development of Afghanistan while taking into account 
the regional context in the post-conflict rehabilitation 
of  the  country  would  ensure  success  in  the  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  international  community.  In  that 
context,  the  SCO  member  States  will  continue  to 
strengthen and upgrade regional cooperation within the 
SCO  framework  and  other  existing  relevant  regional 
forums so as to make the SCO region a region of lasting 
peace, friendship, prosperity and harmony. 
We  would  welcome  Afghanistan’s  involvement 
in  the  activities  of  the  SCO  Regional  Anti-Terrorist 
Structure.  Afghanistan’s  active  participation 
in 
the  region’s  anti-drug  activities  would  be  highly 
appreciated.  We  also  hope  that  collaboration  between 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the United 
Nations will continue to be progressively enhanced in 
future.
The  United  Nations  should  continue  its  central 
role  in  coordinating  international  peacebuilding  and 
reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan. We support the 
activities of the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan in providing and enhancing the necessary 
assistance  to  the  peacebuilding  and  reconstruction 
efforts in the country according to its mandate.
The SCO members support the draft resolution on 
Afghanistan (A/68/L.11), prepared by a wide group of 
sponsors.  Its  adoption  by  consensus  would  facilitate 
enhancing  the  concerted  efforts  of  the  international 
community in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan  (A/68/609)  submitted  to  the  General 
Assembly.  We  welcome  the  imminent  adoption  by 
consensus  of  the  draft  resolution  on  Afghanistan 
(A/68/L.11). 
China  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
on  behalf  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
(SCO), by the representative of Tajikistan in his capacity 
as acting Chair of the SCO.
Thanks to the joint efforts of the Afghan Government 
and people, the peaceful reconstruction of Afghanistan 
has made headway. However, as Afghanistan enters a 
crucial stage of its transition period, the comprehensive 
construction  of  a  peaceful,  stable  and  prosperous 
country will continue to require the coordinated efforts 
of Afghanistan and the international community.
China supports Afghanistan in the safeguarding  of 
its  independence,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
and respects the right of the Afghan people to choose 
their development path based on the country’s situation 
and  to  successfully  achieve  the  transition.  It  is  our 
hope  that  the  international  community  will  continue 
its  support  towards  the  early  achievement  of  peace 
and development in Afghanistan. In that connection, I 
would emphasize the following points. 
Secondly, 
to 
First, China welcomes the efforts of Afghanistan in 
preparing for the presidential and provincial elections 
in  2014  and  hopes  that  the  preparations  will  move 
forward steadily, to ensure the smooth conduct of the 
elections in order to lay the foundation for Afghanistan’s 
transitional stage. We urge the international community 
to carefully consider the opinions and requirements of 
Afghanistan and its people in providing technical and 
financial assistance for the elections.
achieve  peace, 
and 
development  in  Afghanistan,  we  must  fully  support 
ownership by and the leading role of the Afghan people. 
We  support  the  Afghan  Government  in  its  ongoing 
efforts  to  accelerate  capacity-building.  We  call  upon 
the  international  community  to  assist  Afghanistan  in 
enhancing  its  sustainable-development  capacity  and 
supporting the strengthening of its military and police 
capacities with a view to taking over the responsibility 
for  safety  and  security  and  to  achieving,  as  soon  as 
possible, the goal of Afghanistan being run by Afghans 
themselves.
stability 
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
Thirdly, we support the continuing support for the 
national  reconciliation  process,  owned  and  led  by  the 
13-57251
7/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
Afghans. We hope that the High Peace Council will play 
an important role in promoting national reconciliation. 
We welcome the positive contributions of regional States 
in  supporting  Afghanistan’s  national  reconciliation 
efforts.  The  international  community  should  support 
related efforts by the Afghan Government with a view 
to ensuring a conducive environment to that end.
Fourthly, the comprehensive promotion of peaceful 
reconstruction  in  Afghanistan  requires  the  sustained 
support and assistance of the international community. 
China  calls  upon  the  parties  concerned  to  genuinely 
honour  their  assistance  commitments  to  Afghanistan 
and to support the country in implementing its national 
development  strategy,  while  respecting  the  priority 
development areas defined by the Afghan Government.
China  supports  the  leading  role  played  by  the 
United  Nations  in  coordinating  all  of  the  actors 
involved  in  the  international  effort  to  support  the 
reconstruction of Afghanistan. We hope that the United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  will  step 
up its communication and cooperating efforts with the 
Afghan Government.
Fifthly, China supports Afghanistan in improving 
friendly,  good-neighbourly  relations  with  regional 
States  through  regional  cooperation  and  efforts  to 
actively  respond 
to  commonly  faced  challenges, 
including terrorism and drug-related crimes. China will 
host the fourth Ministerial Conference of the Istanbul 
Process  next  year  to  facilitate  the  continued  positive 
role of regional States in promoting peace and stability 
in Afghanistan.
Related 
regional 
take 
initiatives  must 
respect 
Afghanistan’s  sovereignty, 
the 
legitimate concerns of the States of the region, leverage 
the roles of regional organizations such as the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization and proceed on the basis of 
broad  consultation  and  consensus  on  the  part  of  the 
interested parties.
into  account 
China  and  Afghanistan  maintain  a 
tradition 
of  friendly  neighbourliness.  We  sincerely  hope  for 
peace,  stability  and  development  in  Afghanistan. 
We  have  actively  participated  in  the  process  of 
peaceful  reconstruction  in  Afghanistan.  We  have 
provided assistance to the Government and the people 
of  Afghanistan  to  the  best  of  our  ability  in  areas 
including 
resources, 
energy  development,  training  in  human  resources, 
health, culture and education. China is ready to work 
infrastructure 
construction, 
together with the international community to continue 
our  positive  contribution 
to  peace,  stability  and 
development in Afghanistan and the region.
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  As  we  all  know, 
Afghanistan  is  at  a  historic  juncture.  And  as  we  near 
the  end  of  2013,  we  can  reflect  on  the  very  real  and 
tangible  progress  that  Afghanistan  has  made  with  its 
security, political and economic transition.
It has now been five months since President Karzai 
announced  milestone  2013,  with  the  start  of  the  fifth 
and  final  tranche  of  the  transition  to  full  Afghan 
responsibility for security. The announcement marked 
a major turning point for Afghanistan, with the Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  (ANSF)  taking  the  lead  for 
security across the county. The 2013 summer fighting 
season was the first time in over a decade that the ANSF 
has fought the insurgency largely independently. In the 
lead,  the  ANSF  has  taken  the  fight  to  the  insurgents, 
demonstrating  its  ability  to  provide  security  for  their 
own  people.  In  the  southern  province  of  Uruzgan, 
where Australia has focused its own efforts, the ANSF 
is  on  track  to  take  over  operational  responsibility  by 
the end of this year. In line with the transition process 
agreed by the International Security Assistance Force 
(ISAF)  in  partnership  with  the  Afghan  Government, 
Australia’s presence in Uruzgan will end next month. 
Our  drawdown  in  Uruzgan  marks  a  change,  but,  of 
course,  does  not  end  Australia’s  engagement  with 
Afghanistan.  In  2014,  our  military  contribution  will 
include  around  400  personnel,  who  will  play  training 
and  advisory  roles  in  Kabul  and  Kandahar  and,  more 
broadly,  our  diplomatic  and  aid  engagement  will 
continue as a nationally oriented mission.
We  know  that  there  are  still  challenges  ahead.  A 
diminished  but  persistent  insurgency  will  continue  to 
seek to undermine peace and security in Afghanistan. 
But a strong ANSF, with the continued support of the 
international  community,  will  provide  security  and 
stability  for  the  Afghan  people  during  the  transition 
period.
There is a comprehensive international framework 
to  support  not  only  Afghanistan’s  security  challenges 
but  also  the  development  and  economic  challenges 
through  the  transition  and  beyond.  At  the  May  2012 
Chicago summit, partners pledged to help sustain the 
ANSF from 2015 on and to help support the estimated 
annual ANSF budget of $4.1 billion. At Tokyo, in July 
2012, partners pledged $16 billion in aid through 2015.
8/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
Further  progress  by 
the  Afghan  Government 
against  the  reform  priorities  jointly  identified  and 
agreed  at  the  Tokyo  Conference  is  obviously  vital  to 
the  Afghan  Government’s  goal  of  self-reliance  and 
to  the  international  community’s  ability  to  sustain 
providing  significant  support  to  Afghanistan.  The 
Tokyo  commitments  will  assist  Afghanistan 
to 
forge  a  stronger  economy.  With  the  drawdown  of 
forces,  Afghanistan’s  economic  growth  and  revenue 
generation will be crucial to supporting Afghanistan’s 
institutional  capacities  and  to  fostering  long-term 
stability.  We  encourage  the  Afghan  Government  to 
continue to implement much-needed economic reform, 
foster  the  participation  of  women  so  as  to  maximize 
growth,  assist  capacity-building  in  Afghan  ministries 
and support investment that will provide employment 
and sustainable livelihoods.
We look forward to the holding of peaceful, credible 
and  inclusive  presidential  and  provincial  elections  in 
April 2014, as an indication of the progress Afghanistan 
has  achieved  in  the  past  decade.  While  technical 
preparations for that election are more advanced than in 
previous elections, it is true that significant challenges 
remain,  including  maximizing  voter  participation, 
especially  the  participation  of  women.  Those  issues 
will need to be addressed proactively in order to ensure 
a  result  that  will  be  accepted  by  the  Afghan  people 
themselves.
We  continue  to  back  an  Afghan-led  peace  and 
reconciliation  process.  As  Chair  of  the  Security 
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 
1988 (2011) on Taliban sanctions, we are conscious of 
the role that the Taliban sanctions regime can play to 
facilitate  that  process.  Afghanistan’s  neighbours  also 
have a crucial role to play in helping create a peaceful 
and stable future for Afghanistan.
On  human  rights,  Afghanistan  needs  to  lock  in 
and build on the gains of the last decade, particularly 
in  relation  to  the  rights  of  women  and  girls,  as  was 
mentioned  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Tanin,  this  afternoon.  We 
continue to urge full implementation of the Law on the 
Elimination of Violence against Women and encourage 
the  Afghan  Government  to  finalize  and  implement  a 
national  action  plan  on  women,  peace  and  security. 
Gender  inequality  remains  a  significant  barrier  to 
Afghan women’s active participation in Afghanistan’s 
development.  Striving  to  keep  women  and  girls  free 
from  discrimination  and  the  threat  of  violence  is 
integral  to  ensuring  that  lasting  change  and  peace 
endure in Afghanistan.
Finally, Australia recognizes the highly important 
role of the United Nations in supporting Afghanistan’s 
transition.  As  Security  Council  coordinator  —  or 
penholder — on Afghanistan, we look forward to working 
to  secure  a  strong  mandate  with  the  backing  of  the 
Afghan  Government,  a  mandate  that  ensures  that  an 
appropriately  resourced  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan is able to fulfil that role.
In  conclusion,  we,  along  with  the  international 
community,  will  continue  to  support  Afghanistan  at 
the  national  level  by  providing  funding  for  equitable 
development assistance and security force sustainment. 
However,  national  progress  and  reform  is,  ultimately, 
for the Afghan Government and the people themselves 
to  determine.  We  are  confident  that  the  people  will 
seize the opportunity before them to shape their future 
and  create  a  secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan.  It 
is  with  that  sense  that  Australia  again  sponsors  draft 
resolution A/68/L.11 and looks forward to its adoption 
by consensus.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  First  of  all,  the  Russian  Federation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Tajikistan on behalf of the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization (SCO). The situation in the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  remains  the  main 
focus of the international community’s close attention, 
particularly  since  the  country  is  approaching  the 
important 2014 milestone, which will largely determine 
the trend of events, not only in Afghanistan, but in the 
entire region.
We  must  highlight  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan 
Government  to  adapt  its  military  to  counter  the 
terrorist  threat.  However,  it  is  difficult  to  imagine  a 
fundamental  improvement  in  the  security  situation 
in  Afghanistan.  The  actions  of  the  opposition  have 
changed in character. We are particularly concerned by 
the  fact  that  an  Afghan  fingerprint  is  being  detected 
more frequently in actions carried out by Central Asian 
extremist organizations. And all of that is taking place 
against the backdrop of the final stages of completing 
the  transfer  of  security  responsibilities  from  the 
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).
It is unfortunate that participants in the international 
coalition 
as  unjustifiably 
accelerating  the  transfer  of  security  responsibilities 
are  often  perceived 
13-57251
9/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
to  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  without 
considering  the  situation  on  the  ground  in  specific 
areas. To avoid any negative effects on the situation in 
Afghanistan resulting from the withdrawal of the ISAF 
forces,  we  must  ensure  that  the  drawdown  of  foreign 
forces  already  under  way  will  be  compensated  by  a 
strengthening of the military capacities of the Afghan 
military. At the end of the day, the Afghans must be able 
to independently control the security in their country so 
as to effectively counteract extremist groups and drugs 
crime.
The  plans  of  the  international  partners  regarding 
the format, objectives and legal basis of the remaining 
military  forces  in  Afghanistan  remain  unclear.  It 
is  our  hope  that  we  will  soon  receive  an  exhaustive 
explanation in that connection. Let us speak plainly. It 
is unacceptable that there should be a long-term foreign 
military presence in Afghanistan that could be used to 
inject  forces  into  the  neighbouring  region,  including 
in  the  area  under  the  responsibility  of  the  Collective 
Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) or against other 
States.
After the culmination of the stabilization process, 
a  foreign  military  presence  in  Afghanistan  will  no 
longer be necessary. Instead of being needed to combat 
terrorism, such a presence could become a factor leading 
to  further  irritation  at  the  regional  level.  We  suggest 
that the future NATO mission in Afghanistan — if one 
remains  —  should  be  based  on  a  clear  international 
legal  foundation.  The  reform  of  ISAF  into  a  new 
international  mission  without  the  necessary  Security 
Council  mandate  would  lead  to  a  serious  problem  in 
terms of further logistical cooperation.
We support the efforts of the Afghan Government 
to combat illegal drug production and trafficking, and 
we pay tribute to the Afghan National Security Forces 
and  their  anti-drug  division,  which  have  suffered 
serious  losses  in  fighting  that  scourge.  We  are  still 
puzzled as to why ISAF is not playing an active role in 
that field. A source of serious concern is the increase 
in  the  drug  flows  out  of  Afghanistan,  which  threaten 
international peace and stability, given their close links 
with the financing of terrorism.
Furthermore, 
that  criminal  business  has  a 
transnational dimension. We recognize that Afghanistan 
will not be able to deal on its own with the problem, the 
scale of which has been steadily increasing. That fact 
was  clearly  evidenced  by  recent  data  provided  by  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime.  In  2013, 
the  area  dedicated  to  cultivating  poppies  for  opium 
grew by 36 per cent, drug production grew by 49 per 
cent  and  the  revenue  from  those  criminal  activities 
grew by 31 per cent.
As an active member of the CSTO, we would like 
to assure the Assembly that our organization is ready 
to continue to provide Afghanistan with the necessary 
support to combat the illegal production and distribution 
of drugs, including by providing anti-drug training for 
law enforcement officers through our national training 
centres  and  by  supplying  them  with  the  necessary 
equipment and materials.
We  are  convinced 
law 
enforcement  programmes,  we  must  also  develop 
socioeconomic programmes that will allow us remove 
a  significant  part  of  the  Afghan  population  from 
involvement in criminal business dealings. We continue 
to be seriously concerned about the numerous cases of 
civilian  deaths  as  a  result  of  the  indiscriminate  and 
disproportionate use of force by members of the armed 
forces,  including  civilian  deaths  caused  by  the  use  of 
drones.
that, 
in  addition 
to 
We  believe  that  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
is  adopting  the  correct  approach  with  regard  to 
national  reconciliation  through  dialogue  between  the 
High  Peace  Council  and  representatives  of  the  armed 
opposition. We believe that such a dialogue can have a 
positive impact only if Kabul takes a leadership role and 
shows unconditional respect for the basic principles of 
reconciliation and ensures that the militants lay down 
their  weapons  and  recognize  the  Afghan  Constitution 
and  sever  their  connections  with  Al-Qaida  and  other 
terrorist  organizations.  We  must  also  continue  to 
effectively  support  the  Security  Council’s  sanction 
regime,  which  remains  the  only  effective  counter-
terrorism tool.
In the context of the anticipated enhancement of the 
United Nations role in the Afghan reconciliation after 
the ISAF withdrawal, we believe that the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  should  remain  the 
main  focal  point  for  international  efforts  to  stabilize 
the situation in Afghanistan. We hope that during the 
current preparations for the 2014 presidential elections, 
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 
will operate strictly within its mandate and maintain a 
neutral stance.
Regional  cooperation  is  increasingly  playing  a 
stronger role in stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan 
10/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
with  a  view  to  creating  a  peaceful,  independent  and 
economically prosperous State. Afghanistan continues 
to  strengthen  its  ties  with  regional  organizations. 
Among  them,  the  CSTO,  which  is  currently  presided 
by  the  Russian  Federation,  plays  a  special  role.  Our 
organization  is  taking  effective  measures  to  further 
develop and strengthen cooperation with Afghanistan. 
Through  the  Working  Group  on  Afghanistan,  under 
the  CSTO  Council  of  Foreign  Ministers,  we  are 
analysing  the  situation  with  a  view  to  considering 
specific  proposals  to  provide  post-conflict  support  to 
Afghanistan, including the fight against the drug and 
terrorist threat coming from that country. To that end, 
the  CSTO  conducts  the  annual  anti-drug  Operation 
Channel.
In  April,  Afghanistan  obtained  the  status  of 
observer  in  the  CSTO  Parliamentary  Assembly.  At 
the  same  time,  we  believe  that  the  so-called  Istanbul 
Process  on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a 
Secure and Stable Afghanistan can serve as a platform 
for exchanging ideas, which can then be implemented 
by the regional players, such as the CSTO and the SCO.
Russia  is  ready  to  participate  in  major  regional 
projects  aimed  at  ensuring  the  sustainable  economic 
development  of  Central  Asia  and  Afghanistan.  In 
particular,  we  support  the  implementation  of  the 
Central  Asia-South  Asia  1000  project.  We  are  also 
ready  to  contribute  to  the  successful  implementation 
of  the  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India  gas 
pipeline project. We have consistently and respectfully 
supported  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan  Government 
to  create  the  conditions  needed  for  the  long-term 
stabilization  of  the  country  and  the  region.  Friendly 
partnership with Afghanistan is in the national interest 
of our countries and in the interest of ensuring stability 
and development for the region and the world at large.
Mr.  Kydyrov  (Kyrgyzstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  supports  the  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.11  on  Afghanistan,  and  we  align 
ourselves with the statement made by the representative 
of  Tajikistan  on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO).  I  would, 
however,  like  to  make  a  statement  in  my  national 
capacity.
The Kyrgyz Republic has always supported peace 
and security in Afghanistan and the stable development 
and  prosperity  of 
the  brotherly  Afghan  people. 
Therefore,  during  its  presidency  of  the  SCO  and  the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization in 2012-2013, 
Kyrgyzstan  gave  priority  to  enhancing  cooperation 
with  Afghanistan.  In 
that  connection,  President 
Karzai  participated  in  the  SCO  summit  in  Bishkek 
on  13  September  and  had  productive  meetings  with 
President Atambaev. In addition, this year, Kyrgyzstan 
opened  its  embassy  in  Kabul,  which  will  help  to 
facilitate its bilateral cooperation.
Today,  we  are  witnessing  the  beginning  of  the 
withdrawal  of  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  (ISAF)  and  the  transfer  of  responsibility  to  the 
Afghan National Security Forces. We believe that the 
transfer of responsibility for security should be gradual 
and orderly so as to ensure stability. We must ensure that 
the  withdrawal  of  ISAF  does  not  lead  to  Afghanistan 
being taken over by extremist groups.
With regard to the withdrawal of the main contingent 
of ISAF at the end of 2014, it is necessary to ensure that 
there is a functioning transit centre at Manas airport in 
Kyrgyzstan.  We  have  fulfilled  our  obligations  with  a 
view to ensuring support for anti-terrorism operations 
in Afghanistan. For 12 years, we have made it possible to 
supply military and humanitarian goods to Afghanistan 
through the transit centre, which has helped to stabilize 
the situation in Afghanistan and combat terrorism and 
extremism.
Kyrgyzstan,  together  with  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  is  currently 
planning to establish a regional investigation centre in 
Bishkek, which will develop ideas for the development 
of  the  Central  Asian  region  and  Afghanistan.  In  that 
regard, we would like to call upon all interested parties 
to take an active part in that process and to help finance 
it.
On  10  October,  an  international  conference  was 
held in Bishkek, entitled “Afghanistan 2014: Prospects 
for development of the situation in the Islamic Republic 
of  Afghanistan,  challenges  and  threats  to  security  in 
Central  Asia  in  the  context  of  the  withdrawal  of  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force”.  More  than 
130  representatives  of 
international  organizations 
participated,  including  ministers  for  foreign  affairs, 
diplomatic 
from  24 
countries.  We  call  upon  all  States  to  refrain  from 
interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, from 
using it for geopolitical purposes and from invading its 
territory.
representatives  and  experts 
We  are  particularly  concerned  by  the  ongoing 
problem of narcotic drugs and the increased threat that 
13-57251
11/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
represents in Afghanistan. It is a serious threat to the 
national security of both Afghanistan and the countries 
of  the  Eurasian  continent  as  a  whole,  including 
Kyrgyzstan,  as  one  of  the  branches  of  the  so-called 
northern route, one of the main drug trade routes in the 
region.
Despite  Kyrgyzstan’s  consistent  anti-drug  policy, 
we  have  not  yet  been  able  to  fully  stop  the  flow  of 
drugs  from  Afghanistan.  That  situation  is  aggravated 
by  the  fact  that  the  revenues  from  drug  production 
and  trade  are  a  major  source  of  funding  for  terrorist 
and extremist groups, which, in turn, poses a threat to 
the  overall  peace  and  security  in  the  country  and  the 
region as a whole. Therefore, one of the most important 
challenges is to step up joint efforts to counteract the 
production  and  black  market  sales  of  drugs,  both  in 
Afghanistan  and  around  it,  by  establishing,  with  the 
United  Nations  acting  as  a  coordinator,  an  integrated 
system to establish anti-drug belts.
Efforts  to  achieve  national  reconciliation  are 
among  the  main  preconditions  for  ensuring  lasting 
peace  in  Afghanistan.  We  suggest  that  the  process  of 
reconciliation  should  be  implemented  by  the  Afghan 
people  themselves  and  in  the  interest  of  all  Afghans. 
A comprehensive peace process should be open to all 
interested parties that are ready to reject violence and 
break off their links with international terrorism, and 
respect the Constitution of Afghanistan.
In  order  to  establish  stability  in  the  country,  it  is 
extremely important to implement a decisive political 
step, namely, to successfully hold the presidential and 
regional elections in 2014. It is our hope that the election 
of  the  President  will,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history 
of  the  country,  lead  to  a  transfer  of  power  through  a 
peaceful  democratic  process.  It  is  important  that  the 
elections take place in a transparent manner and meet 
the interests of all ethnic groups in Afghanistan. That 
will  provide  a  solid  foundation  for  the  further  stable 
and sustainable development of the country.
As  experience  has  shown,  without  the  support  of 
the  international  community  Afghanistan  will  find  it 
difficult to address its social and economic problems. 
We  believe  that  involving  Afghanistan  in  regional 
cooperation  and  broadening  its  trade  and  economic 
relations  with  neighbouring  States  is  key  to  ensuring 
the  stable  development  of  the  country,  as  well  as 
sustainable peace and trust in the region. The Kyrgyz 
Republic is a participant in such regional organizations 
such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization and is ready to 
make its contribution to that process.
We support the Istanbul Process and the Heart of 
Asia conferences. We participate in working groups on 
confidence-building measures and are ready to help to 
implement regional projects. It is important to carry out 
large-scale joint projects in the export of electrical power 
and the building of transport infrastructure in the form 
of  roads  and  railways.  We  are  ready  to  expand  trade 
and  economic  cooperation  and  develop  infrastructure 
projects,  including  the  export  of  electricity  from 
Afghanistan as part of the electricity transmission line 
project  between  Kyrgyzstan,  Tajikistan,  Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan,  known  as  CASA-1000,  and  through 
the 
trilateral  agricultural  consortium  Kyrgyzstan-
Tajikistan-Afghanistan with the support of the United 
Nations.
We  support  Afghanistan’s  joining  the  agreement 
on  cross-border  transport  within  the  framework  of 
the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation. We 
are  supporting  the  construction  of  an  international 
railroad connecting China, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and 
Afghanistan. We believe that Iran and Pakistan could 
also take part in that project to build an international 
transport  corridor  that  would  extend  into  Iran  and 
Pakistan.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  once  again  to  assure  the 
Assembly  of  the  determined  support  of  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic to respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity 
and unity of Afghanistan, in the interest of establishing 
peace and stability in that brotherly country.
Mr.  Waheed  (Maldives):  First  of  all,  we  would 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  President  for 
convening today’s important debate on the situation in 
Afghanistan. We also commend the Secretary-General 
on  the  recent  comprehensive  update  provided  in  his 
report  (A/68/609)  and  on  his  activities  and  those  of 
his  Special  Representative,  Mr.  Ján  Kubiš,  conducted 
both in person and through his leadership of the United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
The situation in Afghanistan is one that concerns 
the entire region. To remain in a constant state of civil 
war, to lack productive capacity and to be confronted 
with one of the world’s most extensive and debilitating 
narcotic  production  operations  is  to  face  seemingly 
insurmountable odds. The Maldives stands here today 
to  reiterate  our  brotherly  affection  and  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  maintain  its  support  and 
12/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
commitments to the reconstruction and development of 
Afghanistan.
Like  other  speakers  before  me,  my  delegation 
commends the major milestone reached on 18 June of 
this  year  towards  attaining  a  sustainable  peace  with 
the  final  step  of  having  Afghanistan’s  security  forces 
assume full responsibility for their own nation’s security. 
That  and  next  year’s  presidential  elections  present 
two  occasions  of  the  utmost  importance  to  efforts  to 
ensure the success of the democratic transition and the 
country’s  long-term,  peaceful  future.  We  believe  that 
it  is  vital  that  both  processes  be  Afghan-owned  and 
Afghan-led, and that both be transparent and inclusive.
In that light, the Maldives welcomes efforts aimed 
at  strengthening  Afghanistan’s  security  forces,  while 
noting the shortage of some vital resources. We further 
note with concern the increase in incidents that threaten 
security. We hope that the continued assistance of the 
international  community  will  be  forthcoming  at  this 
vital  time,  ensuring  that  the  Afghan  forces  are  fully 
equipped to fulfil their responsibility after the gradual 
withdrawal of foreign troops. We further commend the 
continued  capacity-building  of  the  Afghan  National 
Police, 
first  community 
policing conference, to be held on 25 June, where they 
will discuss how to strengthen the relationship between 
the Afghan Police and local communities.
including  Afghanistan’s 
The work of the United Nations aimed at delivering 
services  and  developing  capacity  in  Afghanistan  is 
and will continue to be very important. The Maldives 
commends UNAMA’s efforts to increase its efficiency 
and maintain its work despite an 18.7 per cent reduction 
in  funding  in  2014.  We  also  congratulate  the  United 
Nations  Mine  Action  Programme  in  Afghanistan, 
which,  according  to  its  most  recent  report,  will  have 
cleared over 1,900 minefields in the country. We take 
note of the Programme’s call stressing that the recent 
funding  cuts  endanger  Afghanistan’s  commitment  to 
becoming  mine-free  by  2023.  We  again  express  our 
hope that international assistance to Afghanistan at this 
critical time does not continue to waver.
The  Maldives  believes  that  increased  regional 
integration is of the utmost importance and contributes 
to  confidence-building,  which  greatly  benefits  the 
stability and prosperity of the country. In that regard, 
the Heart of Asia conferences and the Istanbul Process, 
supported by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation 
and 
for  Regional 
initiatives. 
Cooperation  (SAARC),  represent  vital 
the  South  Asian  Association 
Afghanistan joined SAARC in 2007, which was one of 
its  first  steps  towards  larger  regional  integration,  and 
we are happy to see that it is continuing along that path.
The  Maldives  is  greatly  concerned  by  the  recent 
data  from  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime on Afghanistan’s opium production. 
Published the week before last, it reflects a new record 
in  opium  production  in  Afghanistan.  The  drug  trade 
and  related  transnational  organized  crime  presents  a 
major challenge to stability, not only for Afghanistan, 
of course, but for the entire region.
The  2014  presidential  and  provincial  elections 
in  Afghanistan  remain  key  for  a  fair,  peaceful  and 
sustainable transition process. The Maldives continues 
to  stress  that  we  believe  that  the  process  must  be 
fully  Afghan-owned  and  Afghan-led.  We  therefore 
commend the Afghan Government for adopting a legal 
framework  for  the  upcoming  elections,  although  it 
should be noted that holding democratic elections does 
not  automatically  instil  democratic  values  and  that  it 
will  take  time  to  nourish  those  values.  Ownership  of 
the process and broad participation are important to the 
achievement of those goals.
We believe that another part of democratic values 
is  ensuring  the  rights  of  minorities  and  the  rights  of 
women. In that regard, we welcome Afghanistan’s first 
progress report on its implementation of the Convention 
on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination 
against  Women.  Although  the  current  situation  with 
respect  to  violence  against  women  remains  deeply 
concerning,  the  newly  found  accountability  will  give 
rise  to  further  intensive  efforts  to  implement  that 
important Convention.
The Maldives, through our regional and multilateral 
support  mechanisms,  remains  committed  to  ensuring 
the peaceful development of a safe, secure, prosperous 
and  peaceful  Afghan  nation.  We  hope 
the 
international community will learn from the mistakes 
of the past and will continue to support Afghanistan in 
its efforts to build resilience for a brighter future.
that 
Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset, my delegation would like to pay tribute to the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
(UNAMA), 
the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force (ISAF) and other international agencies and civil 
society for playing vital roles in building a peaceful and 
democratic Afghanistan.
13-57251
13/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
The  country  is  now  at  a  critical  juncture  as 
it  undertakes  the  steps  for  security  and  political 
transition.  A  significant  milestone  was  reached  with 
the launch of the final phase of the security transition 
in June. The Afghan National Security Forces are now 
taking  full  responsibility  for  all  security  operations 
throughout  the  country.  At  the  same  time,  we  are 
witnessing worrisome trends. The number of terrorist 
attacks  has  risen,  causing  heavy  civilian  casualties 
and underscoring the fact that continued international 
support for the Afghan armed forces and the police will 
be vital as the transition moves forward.
My  delegation  recognizes  that  the  transition  is 
not  only  a  security  process,  but  also  requires  the  full 
assumption  of  Afghan  leadership  and  ownership  in 
the area of governance. In that regard, the presidential 
and  provincial  elections  in  2014  will  be  an  important 
landmark  in  the  country’s  political  transition.  We 
believe  that  the  recent  adoption  of  key  electoral 
laws  will  facilitate  the  establishment  of  a  firm  legal 
framework for fair and credible elections.
We  also  welcome  the  timely  appointments  of  the 
members of the two electoral commissions. With only 
five months remaining until the elections, the continued 
support of UNAMA will be crucial in consolidating the 
legitimacy and integrity of the process. 
National reconciliation, owned by Afghans and led 
by Afghans, will be another important step in moving 
the  political  transition  forward.  We  hope  that  further 
progress  will  be  made  in  the  peace  negotiations  with 
all the relevant stakeholders, with the aim of achieving 
sustainable and lasting peace in Afghanistan. 
is 
the 
The 
upon 
dependent 
long-term  support  of 
international 
community 
the  Afghan 
Government’s  progress  in  key  areas  under  the  Tokyo 
Mutual  Accountability  Framework,  such  as 
the 
promotion of human rights, especially those of women. 
In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  Afghan  Government  to 
enhance its efforts by fully implementing the law on the 
elimination of violence against women and ensuring the 
independence of the Afghanistan Independent Human 
Rights Commission, among other measures.
the 
The 
sustained 
support  of 
international 
community  will  be  vital  to  Afghanistan’s  long-term 
stability.  Furthermore,  it  is  important  that  UNAMA 
continue  to  play  a  central  role  in  the  coordination  of 
international  efforts  as  Afghanistan  moves  forward 
with its transition. Today’s draft resolution (A/68/L.11), 
to be adopted by consensus, embodies the political will 
of all Member States to support the Afghan people in 
their  political  and  national  reconstruction  process. In 
conclusion,  the  Korean  Government  will  continue  to 
support  capacity-building  efforts  for  Afghanistan.  By 
pledging to provide $500 million to that end over the 
period  of  2011  to  2015,  we  are  working  closely  with 
the  Afghan  Government  and  its  people  in  realizing  a 
prosperous, stable and democratic Afghanistan.
Mr. Masood Khan (Pakistan): Pakistan is pleased 
to  sponsor  this  year’s  draft  resolution  (A/68/L.11)  on 
Afghanistan.  We  thank  Germany  for  steering  the 
negotiations  on  this  important  draft  resolution,  which 
comes at a defining moment as Afghanistan negotiates 
momentous political, security and economic transitions 
in  2014.  The  draft  resolution  is  the  international 
community’s expression of support for Afghanistan as 
it  intensifies  its  national  endeavours  to  move  towards 
peace, stability and prosperity.
The year 2014 marks a watershed for Afghanistan. 
While Afghanistan’s real progress over the past decade 
is  indeed  something  to  celebrate,  it  is  also  time  for 
reflection. The gains must not be wasted or reversed. 
Military  withdrawal  should  not  be  a  synonym  for 
reduced  focus.  Afghanistan  must  not  be  abandoned 
again. History has taught us that abandonment will be 
bad  for  Afghanistan,  the  region  and  the  world.  This 
time,  abandonment  is  not  even  an  option.  Strenuous 
efforts  are  being  made  to  ensure  that  the  planned 
transitions  lead  to  a  stronger  and  stable  Afghanistan 
and that the neighbours and friends of Afghanistan play 
a constructive role to achieve that goal.
In  order  to  ensure  success,  it  is  important  that 
the  peace  and  reconciliation  process  in  Afghanistan 
succeed,  that  Afghan  security  forces  fully  shoulder 
their responsibilities and that economic reconstruction 
takes off. There should be no vacuums in the political, 
strategic, security or economic spheres. The war should 
come to an end, terrorism must be defeated and national 
unity should create conditions for internal stability and 
regional  cooperation.  There  are  some  encouraging 
signs in that direction. 
The elections planned for next year are an important 
milestone.  A  peaceful,  inclusive  and  participatory 
electoral  process  would  consolidate  democracy, 
reinforce  the  rule  of  law  and  strengthen  norms  of 
broad  representation  and  accountability.  We  welcome 
the  announcement  made  today  about  the  final  list  of 
candidates by the Independent Election Commission.
14/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
The most crucial ingredient in Afghan consensus is 
an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace  and  national 
reconciliation  process.  An  all-inclusive,  broad-based 
dialogue should strive to bring together and reflect the 
interests of all groups, political forces and segments of 
society.
We know that a military solution is not a panacea 
for  Afghanistan  or  a  guarantor  of  long-term  stability. 
The  Doha  initiative,  regrettably,  did  not  succeed.  But 
we must not lose hope. That thread must be picked up 
again to resume talks — but talks that are conducted in 
good faith and lead to results.
territory.  Recent 
The  transfer  of  security  responsibility  to  Afghan 
forces  earlier  this  year  paves  the  way  for  the  Afghan 
Government  to  exercise  its  writ  and  control  over 
its 
independent  reports  suggest 
that  Afghan  security  forces  have  enhanced  their 
occupational and operational capability and that NATO 
and the United States will continue to play a supportive 
role in the post-2014 period. That also reinforces public 
confidence  in  the  Afghan  security  and  institutional 
structures designed to ensure stabilization.
There  is  apprehension  about  the  possibility  that 
the  Afghan  economy  may  suffer  after  the  withdrawal 
of  troops.  So  far,  the  economy  has  been  largely  run 
as  or  perceived  as  a  war  economy,  which  has  been 
bolstered by a massive international presence. Pledges 
for  investment  and  reconstruction  have  either  not 
materialized  or  the  available  funding  has  not  been 
assimilated.
The  international  community  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan have the means and an opportunity to avert 
an economic downturn. Economic reconstruction needs 
to be stepped up. Pledges of support must be fulfilled. 
Capital, know-how and international entrepreneurs and 
businesses  must  be  locked  in  to  maintain  economic 
momentum for growth.
Our  worst  fear  is  that  an  economic  slowdown  in 
Afghanistan  post-2014  may  result  in  more  refugees 
wanting to move to Pakistan. We would not be able to 
absorb  them.  Afghanistan  has  done  a  commendable 
job in receiving and assimilating millions of refugees 
in the past 10 years, but we still have nearly 3 million 
registered  and  undocumented  refugees  on  Pakistani 
soil.  In  the  past  33  years,  we  have  hosted  more  than 
5 million refugees.
Our  decision 
legal 
authorization until the end of 2015 is a clear indication 
refugees’ 
to  extend 
the 
of  Pakistan’s  commitment  to  supporting  Afghans  in 
distress.  However,  the  early,  honourable,  voluntary 
and  sustainable  return  of  refugees  must  continue. 
The  support  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international community is critical in that regard. We 
strongly urge donor countries and Afghanistan to make 
the  return  and  rehabilitation  of  refugees  part  of  the 
planned economic reconstruction.
One  of  the  primary  objectives  of  our  Afghan 
policy  is  peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  We  are 
convinced that without sustainable peace and stability 
in the country, there would be no peace and stability in 
Pakistan  and  in  the  region.  Pakistan  and  Afghanistan 
have  a  symbiotic  relationship,  and  their  destinies 
are  intertwined,  irrevocably  and  for  all  time.  Our 
Government,  under  the  leadership  of  Prime  Minister 
Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  is  making  conscious  and 
resolute  efforts  to  forge  closer  ties  with  Afghanistan, 
oppose immediate security threats, strengthen bilateral 
economic  cooperation  and  shape  an  environment  for 
regional connectivity.
In  the  peace  and  reconciliation  process,  Pakistan 
has no favourites. We will only play a facilitating role. 
The people of Afghanistan should be in the driver’s seat 
and be the masters of their own destiny. We earnestly 
hope that Afghans will unite for the peace, prosperity 
and development of their great country.
It  is  important  to  have  realistic  expectations 
about Pakistan’s role. Pakistan can exercise influence, 
but  it  does  not  control  the  Taliban.  We  have  released 
46  Taliban  prisoners,  including  Mullah  Baradar,  and 
have provided safe passage to those considered useful 
for  the  process  by  the  parties.  We  are  encouraging 
the Taliban to return to the negotiating table. We will 
continue to play our supportive and constructive role.
We  are  keen  to  develop  and  build  a  deeper  and 
broader  bilateral 
relationship  with  Afghanistan. 
Positive developments have taken place in that regard. 
President  Karzai’s  visit  to  Islamabad  in  August  this 
year and his wide-ranging and productive engagement 
with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif were a manifestation 
of  the  strong  commitment  of  the  two  countries  to 
strengthening their relations.
Our  countries  are  bound  by  ties  of  kinship,  faith 
and  history.  We  are  working  to  implement  the  vision 
of  Prime  Minister  Nawaz  Sharif  for  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous  neighbourhood.  That  engagement  was 
advanced  through  a  trilateral  summit  in  London  last 
13-57251
15/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
month, which was attended by Prime Minister Nawaz 
Sharif,  President  Hâmid  Karzai  and  Prime  Minister 
David  Cameron.  We  thank  the  United  Kingdom  for 
facilitating  the  dialogue.  I  also  thank  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin,  Afghanistan’s  Permanent  Representative 
to the United Nations, for his warm words earlier today 
about  the  commitment  and  cooperation  of  Pakistan, 
which he said is vital to the advancement of the peace 
and reconciliation process.
We  are  working  on  a  number  of  projects  to 
reinforce  regional  trade  and  construct  energy  and 
communications  corridors.  We  want  early  fruition  of 
energy  projects  such  as  the  electricity-transmission 
line between Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan and 
Pakistan known as CASA-1000 and the Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India 
pipeline,  which 
have  significant  dividends  for  Afghanistan  and  other 
neighbouring countries. Similarly, the building of road 
and rail links and other infrastructure projects, which 
are either under completion or on the anvil, will boost 
our  economies  and  create  broader  synergies  for  the 
region.
gas 
Pakistan  is  according  importance  to  developing 
and  strengthening  the  health  and  education  sectors 
in  Afghanistan.  We  have  built  colleges,  universities 
and  hospitals  in  Afghanistan  and  given  scholarships 
to  Afghan  students  to  study  in  Pakistani  educational 
institutions. We have contributed more than $400 million 
to Afghanistan’s reconstruction.
is 
Insecurity 
the  bane  of  Afghanistan’s  and 
Pakistan’s  common  dream  of  a  prosperous  future.  In 
that  context,  securing  borders  is  the  most  important 
step.  Pakistan’s  legitimate  security  interests  must  be 
recognized and respected. We must not allow our sacred 
relationship  to  be  manipulated  by  non-State  actors. 
We  need  more  aggressive  policing  and  surveillance 
of  the  Pakistan-Afghanistan  border.  That  would  deter 
terrorists  and  extremists  and  the  masterminds  behind 
organized crime, narcotics trafficking and illicit arms 
proliferation.  A  visit  by  the  Afghan  Interior  Minister 
would help address the issue of border management.
The  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
has recorded a 36 per cent increase in poppy cultivation 
in Afghanistan this year. That is extremely disturbing. 
An integrated and comprehensive response to the drug 
issue  is  required.  The  United  Nations  system  should 
continue to play its important role in that regard.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  play 
an enhanced role in rebuilding Afghanistan. The visit 
of  Deputy  Secretary-General  Jan  Eliasson  to  Kabul 
earlier this year underlined the need for United Nations 
support to strengthen Afghan capacity and resilience. 
While  the  Organization  aligns  its  activities  with 
Afghan Government priorities, United Nations support 
should  be  channelled  to  the  political,  security  and 
disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration  fields. 
UNAMA’s mandate should be carefully calibrated next 
year in order to adjust to the changing milieu.
As 
I  said  earlier,  Pakistan’s 
relations  with 
Afghanistan  are  driven  by  a  sense  of  shared  destiny. 
Our cooperation spans the entire spectrum of relations. 
We are committed to a peaceful and stable Afghanistan. 
No  country  has  suffered  more  than  Pakistan  from 
instability  in  Afghanistan,  and  no  country  stands  to 
gain more from peace and stability in that country. We 
are  confident  that  the  valiant  people  of  Afghanistan 
will  surmount  the  current  challenges  to  usher  in  a 
brighter  and  more  prosperous  future  for  themselves 
and for the region. Pakistan will be there to celebrate 
that  transformation  with  the  brotherly  people  of 
Afghanistan.
its  people,  defined  by 
Ms.  Alowais  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The United Arab Emirates affirms its support 
for  the  draft  resolution  before  the  General  Assembly 
today  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/68/L.11), 
particularly  with  respect  to  the  completion  of  the 
transitional  process  and  the  advent  of  2014,  which 
symbolizes  a  new  beginning  for  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Afghanistan  and 
the 
restoration of security and stability, the development of 
governmental institutions, the holding of elections and 
the achievement of sustainable economic development.
The United Arab Emirates commends the progress 
made  in  Afghanistan  over  the  past  decade.  Despite 
this,  there  is  still  a  dire  need  for  the  international 
community  to  stand  by  the  Afghan  people  through 
the  important  stages  ahead  and  to  commit  to  the 
outcomes  of  the  conferences  held  in  Kabul,  Bonn, 
Tokyo, Istanbul, Lisbon, Chicago and elsewhere. In that 
connection, we reaffirm our long-term commitment to 
Afghanistan, hoping that its security and stability will 
lead  to  security  and  stability  in  the  region,  including 
the United Arab Emirates. It is essential for the United 
Nations  to  continue  working  in  Afghanistan  through 
the commendable efforts of the Secretary-General and 
his  Special  Representative  at  the  head  of  the  United 
16/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan.  The  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  supporting  an  Afghan-led 
political process must continue.
lies  with 
the 
Although  Afghan  security  forces  were  given 
full  responsibility  five  months  ago,  the  bulk  of  the 
responsibility  for  assisting  Afghan  forces  through 
training  and  funding 
international 
community.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly 
condemns  the  continuing  terror  attacks  committed 
by  extremist  groups,  which  have  claimed  the  lives  of 
innocent  civilians,  including  women  and  children. 
In  the  context  of  the  Istanbul  Process  on  Regional 
Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and  Stable 
Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates is co-chairing, 
with the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan, a working group on the implementation of 
confidence-building measures  to counter terrorism.  In 
that framework, the United Arab Emirates has hosted 
fruitful discussions on ways to combat terrorism at the 
Hedayah  Centre  in  Abu  Dhabi,  the  first  international 
centre of excellence for countering violent extremism.
impact  of 
anti-personnel  landmines  and  explosive  remnants  of 
war on innocent civilians in Afghanistan. Since 2011, 
the United Arab Emirates has allocated $25.8 million 
to support mine-clearance operations in Kandahar, one 
of  the  areas  that  are  most  affected  by  mines.  Those 
operations,  which  have  continued  for  the  past  two 
years,  have  cleared  approximately  50  per  cent  of  the 
hazardous mined areas, contributing to the employment 
of more than 1,000 people and providing access to land 
for agriculture and infrastructure development.
let  us  not  forget 
Moreover, 
the 
That  demonstrates  how  security  and  stability 
in  advancing 
in  Afghanistan  are  key  elements 
socioeconomic  development,  ensuring  access 
to 
aid  by  all  sectors  of  Afghan  society.  In  2011,  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  set  up  a  standing  committee 
for  humanitarian  and  development  assistance 
in 
Afghanistan, consolidating all the efforts of donors and 
charitable  institutions  in  that  country.  The  assistance 
provided  by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  amounted  to 
$267.3  million  from  2009  to  2012,  including  projects 
such as building Kandahar Airport, completing a road 
leading to Helmand province, and providing food and 
aid to orphans and persons with special needs.
The United Arab Emirates is working with Member 
States  and  other  institutions  on  joint  projects  for  the 
development  of  the  Afghan  economy,  such  as  a  joint 
venture  with  the  United  Kingdom  to  build  a  highway 
linking northern and southern Afghanistan and a joint 
venture with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to 
vaccinate children in Afghanistan, for which the United 
Arab Emirates has allocated $33 million from 2011 to 
2013.
Regional cooperation is one of the key pillars for 
ensuring security, stability, social and economic growth 
in  Afghanistan  by  combating  terrorism,  fighting  the 
drug  trade  and  repatriating  Afghan  refugees.  In  that 
regard, Member States and regional organizations must 
redouble their efforts to accelerate the implementation 
of confidence-building measures and regional dialogue, 
particularly  between  Afghanistan  and  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  since  the  security  and  stability 
of the two countries depend on both sides. The United 
Arab  Emirates  commends  the  positive  efforts  of  both 
countries  to  strenghten  cooperation,  and  attaches 
particular importance to that matter.
reintegration  process 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  supports  the  peace, 
reconciliation  and 
led  by 
Afghanistan  through  the  High  Peace  Council,  which 
seeks  to  eliminate  violence  and  to  ensure  respect  for 
the  rights  of  all  Afghans,  especially  Afghan  women. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  condemns  all  attacks  on 
women.  To  that  end,  at  the  Heart  of  Asia  ministerial 
conference  in  Almaty,  Kazakhstan,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  announced  a  two-year,  $20-million  project 
to  train  Afghan  imams,  which  was  launched  in  May. 
The  objective  of  the  project  is  to  raise  awareness  of 
moderate  Islam  in  order  to  safeguard  respect  for  the 
rights of all Afghans.
Mr.  Yoshikawa 
(Japan):  It  gives  me  great 
pleasure to address agenda item 37 on the situation in 
Afghanistan, particularly because I served as the first 
Special  Representative  of  Japan  to  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan in 2009 and 2010. I wish to express my sincere 
appreciation to Ambassador Wittig of Germany and his 
colleagues, who ably led the consultations throughout 
its  entire  process.  I  also  thank  Ambassador  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan  for  his  constructive  engagement  towards 
achieving  a  consensus  on  draft  resolution  A/68/L.11. 
Japan  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution 
before us today.
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  all  the  men  and 
women  in  Afghanistan  who  have  devoted  themselves 
to  rebuilding  their  country  in  the  most  difficult 
circumstances. I also pay tribute to all the citizens of 
13-57251
17/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
States Members of the United Nations, including Japan, 
who  have  been  working  to  enhance  the  stability  and 
development of Afghanistan.
The  year  2014  will  be  a  critical  juncture  for  the 
future sustainability of Afghanistan, since the country 
is  expected  to  achieve  concrete  results  through  the 
presidential  election  and  by  transitioning  towards 
security. In that regard, we all hope that the Organization, 
in particular the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan,  will  play  an  increasingly  important  role 
in  2014  and  beyond  in  supporting  the  Government’s 
efforts  to  meet  its  development  goals  and  achieve 
lasting peace. Japan will continue to lend its support to 
the work of the United Nations in Afghanistan.
Today  I  would  like  to  address  some  key  issues 
and challenges that Japan believes the Government of 
Afghanistan must tackle.
First and foremost, the upcoming presidential and 
provincial elections must give strong legitimacy to the 
new  Government  that  is  to  be  established.  The  next 
President will take over the heavy duties of President 
Karzai,  who  has  tirelessly  led  the  country  towards 
lasting  peace  and  stability  for  more  than  11  years.  In 
order to achieve strong legitimacy for the Government, 
it  is  first  imperative  for  Afghanistan  to  ensure  a  fair 
and  transparent  election  process,  starting  from  the 
preparations stage. Secondly, the election results should 
be a reflection of the will of the entire population. To 
that  end,  it  is  indispensable  for  the  Government  to 
encourage full participation by all eligible voters.
In that light, Japan commends the important progress 
made  by  Afghanistan  regarding  voter  registration, 
the  adoption  of  the  electoral  legal  framework  and  the 
establishment  of  key  electoral  institutions,  to  name  a 
few.  However,  security  still  remains  key  to  ensuring 
wider  participation.  Also  crucial  are  the  processes 
and logistics, such as the voting process itself and the 
counting and announcement of final results. Those are 
also important challenges.
Last  but  not  least,  Afghanistan  must  hold  the 
elections in April 2014, as currently scheduled according 
to  its  Constitution.  Japan,  as  a  long-term  partner  of 
Afghanistan, is ready to assist with the Government’s 
endeavours.  We  support  the  work  of  the  Independent 
Election Commission through the second phase of the 
Enhancing Legal and Electoral Capacity for Tomorrow 
project. We also look into joining the election observer 
mission in order to have a constructive impact on the 
election process.
Now I would like to touch upon what we expect from 
Afghanistan, in particular from the future Government, 
on important challenges.
The  Tokyo  Conference  on  Afghanistan  held  in 
July 2012 demonstrated once again the strong will and 
commitments  by  both  the  Afghan  Government  and 
the  international  community.  The  reliable  and  timely 
implementation of the mutual commitments under the 
Tokyo  Mutual  Accountability  Framework  is  the  key 
driving  instrument  towards  a  stable  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan. It is therefore critical that the duties for 
implementing  the  commitments  by  Afghanistan  be 
properly handed over to the new Government. In that 
regard, I would like to renew the call for Afghanistan 
to  take  sustained  and  accelerated  action  to  deliver  on 
its commitments as agreed at the Conference, including 
those made in the areas of governance, the rule of law, 
human rights and public finances.
In  order  to  help  Afghanistan’s  efforts,  Japan  has 
been  delivering  assistance  in  a  faithful  and  generous 
manner.  Since  January  2002,  when  Japan  hosted  the 
Tokyo  International  Conference  on  Reconstruction 
Assistance to Afghanistan, we have contributed a total 
of  $5  billion  for  the  country’s  developments  efforts. 
We  look  forward  to  seeing  tangible  progress  in  that 
regard  at  the  ministerial  meeting  to  be  co-hosted  by 
Afghanistan and the United Kingdom next year.
like 
I  would 
to  conclude  my  statement  by 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  an  Afghan-owned 
and  Afghan-led  peace  and  reconciliation  process. 
Needless to say, Afghanistan bears full responsibility 
for  advancing  the  peace  process  in  order  to  make  the 
dividends of the security transition irreversible. Japan 
calls  for  sustained  political  determination  by  the 
Afghan Government.
in 
I  would  also  like  to  point  out  that  constructive 
engagement  by  neighbouring  countries  plays  a  vital 
role 
the  Afghan-led  peace  and  reconciliation 
process. In that regard, it is very encouraging to see the 
intensive Afghanistan-Pakistan dialogue over the past 
year, as the Permanent Representatives of Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan  mentioned  today.  At  the  Japan-Pakistan 
summit meeting held in September here in New York, 
Prime  Minister  Abe  was  assured  by  Prime  Minister 
Sharif  that  Pakistan’s  positive  involvement  would 
continue.
18/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
We  fervently  hope  to  see  the  Afghan-led  peace 
and  reconciliation  process  supported  by  mutual  trust 
among  its  neighbouring  countries.  We  also  hope  that 
it will bear concrete results in the near future and that 
all people of Afghanistan and the region will enjoy the 
dividends of peace.
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  join  other  Member  States 
in  sponsoring  this  draft  resolution  (A/68/L.11)  on  the 
situation in Afghanistan. The draft resolution reflects 
the international community’s continuing commitment 
to  supporting  the  Afghan  people  in  building  a  stable, 
democratic  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  through  the 
2014 transition and beyond. 
Over the past 12 years, the livelihoods of the Afghan 
people  have  fundamentally  improved.  In  2001,  there 
were only 900,000 Afghan children in school, and all of 
them were boys. Today nearly 8 million students are in 
school, and more than a third of them are girls. Maternal 
mortality was 1,600 per 100,000 births; today it is down 
by 80 per cent. Life expectancy for the average Afghan 
was 42 years; today it is 62 years and rising. Nine per 
cent of Afghans had access to basic health care; today 
60  per  cent  of  Afghans  live  within  an  hour  of  basic 
health services. There was only one television station, 
and it was owned by the Government; today there are 
75 stations, and all but two are privately owned. There 
were  virtually  no  cell  phones  in  the  country  in  2001; 
today, there are 18 million, covering about 90 per cent 
of residential areas. That progress was only possible as 
a result of the sacrifices of the Afghan people and their 
international supporters. 
We are now at a critical moment in Afghanistan’s 
history.  Last  summer,  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces  for  the  first  time  took  the  lead  in  providing 
security  across 
the  entire  country.  Afghanistan’s 
military  and  law  enforcement  are  growing  stronger 
and  more  capable  by  the  day.  Even  as  the  security 
transition  reaches  its  final  stages,  the  United  States 
and  our  international  partners  remain  committed  to 
helping  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  become 
an  independent  force  that  is  able  to  secure  its  own 
people and the public trust. That is a commitment that 
will extend well beyond 2014. 
The 
single  most 
in 
Afghanistan’s political transition during the next year 
will be the peaceful transfer of power from President 
Karzai  to  a  democratically  elected  successor.  It  is 
important  milestone 
imperative that the elections be held on time and result 
in  an  outcome  that  is  perceived  as  legitimate  by  all 
segments of Afghan society. While legitimate elections 
by  necessity  entail  competition  and  debate,  we  hope 
that  the  upcoming  elections  in  Afghanistan  will 
represent a unifying moment for the country. Afghans 
also  recognize  that  continued  international  assistance 
is  contingent  upon  credible,  inclusive  and  transparent 
elections  that  reflect  the  will  and  aspirations  of  the 
Afghan people. 
We  are  encouraged  by  the  hundreds  of  Afghan 
women who are running for positions on the provincial 
councils  thoughout  the  country,  and  we  welcome  the 
support  of  the  United  Nations  and  our  international 
partners  in  strengthening  the  rights  and  the  role  of 
Afghan  women.  Societies  where  women  are  safe  and 
empowered  to  exercise  their  rights  and  to  move  their 
communities  forward  are  more  prosperous  and  more 
stable, not occasionally but always. Protecting the gains 
made for Afghan women is not up to women alone; it 
requires engaging civil society, including men, women 
and minorities.
While  the  success  of  the  political  transition  next 
year is essential to the future stability of Afghanistan, 
it  alone  is  not  sufficient  to  end  the  conflict.  The 
United States firmly believes that an Afghan-led peace 
and  reconciliation  effort  is  the  surest  way  to  end  the 
violence  and  to  bring  lasting  stability  to  Afghanistan 
and the region.
The  security  and  political  transitions  that  I  have 
described will succeed only if they are matched by the 
broader commitment of the Government of Afghanistan 
to  reform  its  economy  and  unlock  the  economic 
potential of the Afghan people. Those reforms should 
include  a  comprehensive  approach  to  combating  the 
narcotics trade that is integrated into the broader efforts 
to  support  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  economic 
development. 
Furthermore, unlocking Afghanistan’s potential as 
a waypoint in regional trade between Central and South 
Asia  will  also  unlock  new  economic  opportunities 
across  the  region.  That  is  the  crux  of  the  new  Silk 
Road vision, which is based on the premise that greater 
economic cooperation is critical to achieving stability 
and peace across the region.
Finally,  the  United  Nations  has  played  and  will 
continue  to  play  a  critical  role  in  Afghanistan.  In 
particular,  we  commend  United  Nations  support  for 
13-57251
19/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
Afghanistan’s  2014  elections.  United  Nations  support 
for  regional  diplomacy,  the  political  process  and 
coordination between the Government of Afghanistan 
and  donors 
the  Tokyo  Mutual 
Accountability  Framework  will  also  be  essential  as 
Afghanistan looks towards 2014 and beyond.
implementing 
in 
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  At  the  outset,  let  me  thank 
the President for organizing this discussion. I also avail 
myself  of  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  German 
delegation,  and  Ambassador  Wittig  personally,  for 
coordinating the intergovernmental negotiations in an 
excellent manner, which has brought us to the annual 
draft resolution on the situation in Afghanistan. As in 
the past several years, India is happy to sponsor draft 
resolution  A/68/L.11,  which  has  traditionally  been 
adopted by consensus.
Afghanistan  is  undergoing  a  significant  period 
of  transition,  which  includes  the  security,  political 
and  economic  dimensions.  The  progress  made  on  the 
technical preparations for the presidential elections is 
a testimony to the resolve of the people of Afghanistan 
to  ensure  a  smooth  political  transition.  The  key  to 
successful  elections  in  2014  is  an  election  whose 
outcome is acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
The  presidential  elections  will  be  yet  another 
significant  step  towards  the  political  reconstruction 
effort in Afghanistan and must continue to be Afghan-
led, Afghan-owned and, let me add, Afghan-managed. 
The rationale behind our addition of the word Afghan-
managed  is  that  we  want  to  stress  that  the  destiny  of 
Afghanistan is in the hands of the Afghan people. It also 
symbolizes the distance that the people of Afghanistan 
have  covered 
transition  and 
transformation. It will be the third democratic election 
in  Afghanistan,  which  is  a  significant  achievement 
for Afghanistan and a sign of the maturity of its new 
political  system.  The  international  community  must 
strongly  support  the  Afghan  authorities’  preparations 
in  that  endeavour  and,  at  the  same  time,  resist  any 
outside effort to derail the process.
the  process  of 
in 
The  security  situation  in  Afghanistan  remains 
fragile. The number of civilian casualties and targeted 
killings has risen. The condemnable attack on the Indian 
Consulate  in  Jalalabad  on  3  August,  which  led  to  the 
injury of several Afghan security personnel who were 
guarding  the  Consulate  and  to  the  killing  of  several 
innocent  Afghan  citizens,  including  10  children,  is 
another  example  of  the  tenuous  security  environment 
in Afghanistan. 
As  we  stated  previously,  India  does  not  have  an 
exit  policy  in  Afghanistan.  India  will  not  be  deterred 
by  such  attacks.  We  do  not  see  that  attack  as  aimed 
only  against  India  but  also  against  the  efforts  of  the 
Afghan people to overcome the tragic consequences of 
the  past  several  decades  of  war  and  conflict.  I  would 
like to reiterate our commitment to stand by the Afghan 
people  and  their  security  personnel,  who  have  shown 
exemplary courage in protecting them.
It  has  been  seen  that  most  terrorist  attacks  in 
Afghanistan  originate  from  beyond  its  borders  by 
groups closely allied to Al-Qaida and its affiliates. We 
would  like  to  reiterate  that  we  must  be  continuously 
watchful of the designs of such terrorist organizations. 
The  Al-Qaida  and  Taliban  Sanctions  Committee 
must  remain  proactive  and  attentive  in  its  listing  and 
delisting process of individuals and entities for targeted 
measures. The role of the international community in 
that  regard  is  critical,  not  only  in  providing  input  to 
the  Sanctions  Committee  and  other  related  counter-
terrorism entities but also in continuing to support the 
efforts of the Afghan people to address the security and 
terrorist challenges that they face. 
is 
therefore  extremely 
In  that  regard,  concerted  action  is  also  needed 
to  isolate  and  to  destroy  the  syndicate  of  terrorism, 
which  includes  elements  of  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida, 
Lashkar-e-Taiba  and  other  terrorist  and  extremist 
groups.  It 
that 
the  transition  security  plan  take  into  account  the 
threats  posed  by  those  terrorist  organizations  and 
complement  the  security  architecture  in  Afghanistan. 
The  drawdown  of  troops  and  its  implication  for  the 
security  arrangements  need  to  be  carefully  assessed 
and appropriate measures must be taken to ensure the 
safety and security of the Afghan people.
important 
The time has come for the international community 
to reassess the role that it wishes to play in Afghanistan’s 
internal  political  process.  In  that  regard,  the  issue  of 
the renewed mandate of the United Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) should be discussed. 
Afghanistan has reached a considerable level of political 
maturity with the huge political reconstruction effort in 
that country. We applaud the role played by UNAMA, 
along with other agencies of the United Nations system, 
in the political, humanitarian and development spheres 
in  Afghanistan  over  the  past  decade.  However,  we 
believe that we should take note of the maturity of the 
political  process  in  Afghanistan.  We  should  therefore 
define  UNAMA’s  political  mandate  to  ensure  that  it 
20/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
keeps its focus on supporting the institutions of politics 
rather  than  the  political  process  itself,  which  must  be 
left to Afghanistan’s own leaders. 
in  Afghanistan,  since 
We  also  believe  that  UNAMA  must  expand  its 
humanitarian  and  developmental  role  through  better 
delivery  of  assistance 
the 
United Nations is uniquely placed in its access to the 
remotest and most isolated communities in the country. 
Improving  infrastructure,  along  with  access  to  basic 
services, such as health care, education and nutrition, 
on a regular basis for all Afghans would create a vital 
space  for  the  new  Afghan  political  system  to  mature 
and  take  firm  root  in  Afghan  society.  That  must 
complement and supplement Afghan State institutions 
and  their  initiatives  in  those  spheres,  since  it  is  not 
capacity substitution but capacity-building that we seek 
to  achieve  in  Afghanistan.  It  would  also  be  useful  if 
we  undertake  a  serious  assessment  of  the  future  role 
of  UNAMA  by  learning  from  its  experiences  and 
from the views of other Member States. The objective 
should be to see how best the international community 
can  realistically  assist  the  Afghan  people  in  a  fast-
changing  political  scenario.  The  assessment  of  issues 
facing  UNAMA  must  take  into  account  the  problems 
of coherence in performing its mandated activities and 
the related duplication of resources and a higher cost of 
programmes.
Mr. Touré (Guinea), Vice-President, took the Chair.
As  Afghanistan  moves  towards  2014,  it  would 
be  entering  a  new  era  of  development  and  progress. 
Needless to say, the international community’s support 
and  constant  encouragement  for  Afghanistan  will 
be  critical  in  that  transition.  We  would  like  to  offer 
assurances  that  India  will  remain  steadfast  in  its 
support to Afghanistan during the period of transition 
and thereafter. India once again reiterates its support for 
an  Afghan-led,  Afghan-owned  and  Afghan-controlled 
process of transition and development.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made by the observer of the European Union 
and  would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  in  a  national 
capacity.
We  welcome  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation 
in Afghanistan (A/68/L.11) and support its adoption by 
consensus.  In  doing  so,  we  confirm  our  appreciation 
for  the  substantial  contribution  the  United  Nations 
is  making  to  the  stabilization  of  the  country.  Italy 
values the continued efforts that the Secretary-General 
and  his  Special  Representative  are  promoting  in  that 
aim  and  reiterates  its  full  and  convinced  support  for 
their  work.  We  also  commend  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission (UNAMA) in leading and 
coordinating  the  civilian  efforts  of  the  international 
community, whose importance will grow as the military 
commitment gradually diminishes.
The  term  “countdown”  epitomizes  the  current 
international  debate  on  Afghanistan,  expressing  not 
only the concerns but especially the expectations and 
confidence we partners have with regard to the crucial 
deadlines Afghanistan must face between now and the 
end of 2014. In that period, the country must complete 
the  transition  process,  the  decade  of  transformation 
begins,  and  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  will  turn  into  a  resolute  support  mission.  First, 
however, come the presidential elections of April 2014, 
which will mark, for the first time in Afghan history, 
a handoff from one Head of State to another through a 
democratic process. Those critical junctures will outline 
the  features  of  domestic  balances  in  Afghanistan  and 
the nature of the country’s future relationship with the 
international community.
to  strengthen 
its  support  for 
In the lead-up to the elections, the United Nations 
needs 
the  Afghan 
institutions to enable them to gradually take ownership 
of the civil and economic development of the country. It 
is Italy’s hope that until the new Head of State has been 
proclaimed, the Kabul authorities will undertake every 
action  needed  to  guarantee  an  inclusive,  transparent 
and  credible  electoral  process  and  that  there  will  be 
common  rules  of  the  game  that  protect  and  represent 
the many facets of civil society, as well as the various 
political parties present in the country.
The gradual definition of an institutional framework 
to oversee the elections, thanks to the approval of the 
new election law and the forthcoming publication of the 
final  list  of  presidential  candidates,  indicates  that  the 
Afghan  authorities  are  moving  in  the  right  direction. 
A  prerequisite  for  the  proper  and  orderly  conduct  of 
the  presidential  and  provincial  elections  is  security,  a 
responsibility of the Afghan National Security Forces, 
which  have  made  steady  progress  in  the  challenging 
daily task of controlling the territory.
Italy  reiterates  its  conviction  that  there  can  be 
no  stabilization  of  Afghanistan  without  domestic 
reconciliation, nor can this stability be lasting without 
the  genuine  and  heartfelt  contribution  of  regional 
stakeholders.  Italy  thus  confirms  its  support  for  the 
13-57251
21/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
peace  process,  recognizing  the  full  ownership  of  the 
Afghan  authorities,  and  expects  that  there  will  be  no 
backsliding  from  gains  that  have  been  made  in  the 
areas of democracy, civil rights and gender equality or 
concessions to terrorism.
Italy  is  confident  that  the  recent  establishment 
of  a  more  cordial  climate  between  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan  portends  positive  developments 
the 
inter-Afghan  dialogue  and  in  regional  cooperation  as 
a  whole.  In  the  latter  regard,  implementation  of  the 
confidence-building  measures  of  the  Istanbul  “Heart 
of Asia” process, which Italy supports and encourages, 
could make a significant contribution.
in 
In closing, Italy wishes to express its appreciation 
of  the  important  space  that  the  Afghanistan  draft 
resolution  dedicates  to  respect  for  human  rights, 
particularly the rights of women and children. For Italy, 
that protection is an absolute priority.
We intend to dedicate our efforts and our support 
to Afghanistan and its people. At the same time, from 
our  Afghan  friends  we  are  expecting  —  in  the  logic 
of conditionality, pursuant to the legacy of the Tokyo 
Mutual Accountability Framework —  the achievement 
of definite, measurable results not only in human rights, 
but also in areas such as the democratic and electoral 
process, the fight against corruption and administrative 
and economic governance.
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  begin  by  thanking  the  President  for 
convening this annual meeting of the General Assembly 
to review the progress made in building a secure, stable 
and prosperous Afghanistan.
I would also like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his  report  (A/68/609)  and  to  express  my  appreciation 
to Mr. Ján Kubiš, Special Representative of Secretary-
General  for  Afghanistan  and  Head  of  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  for 
his  comprehensive  assessment  of  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan. We had several rounds of discussion with 
him, and I really appreciate his efforts.
A  short  look  at  the  developments  in  Afghanistan 
during  the  past  several  years  is  indicative  of  the 
following  facts.  First,  significant  progress  has  been 
made in the political, economic, social and development 
areas  in  Afghanistan.  Secondly,  the  general  trend  for 
construction  and  reconciliation  in  Afghanistan  is 
positive,  and  efforts  are  on  the  right  track.  Thirdly, 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
of  States,  in  particular  the  neighbouring  countries 
of  Afghanistan,  are  resolute  in  their  strong  long-
term  commitment  to  a  secure,  stable  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan  and 
independence, 
territorial  integrity  and  national  unity.  Fourthly,  a 
number  of  remaining  challenges  in  Afghanistan  and 
the  interconnected  nature  of  those  challenges  require 
more efforts of the Afghan Government, coupled with 
the strong support of the international community.
sovereignty, 
its 
In  the  year  2014,  two  significant  events,  namely 
the  presidential  and  provincial  council  elections,  and 
the  announced  withdrawal  of  foreign  forces  from 
Afghanistan,  are  crucial  in  shaping  the  future  of 
that  country.  Successful  elections  in  2014  are  indeed 
essential  in  enhancing  the  political  stability  and 
national  unity  of  Afghanistan  and  its  advancement  in 
all  other  areas.  While  we  support  the  efforts  of  the 
Afghan Government in organizing those elections well, 
we hope that the active participation of all Afghans in 
the elections will help enhance the unity and harmony 
of all segments of the Afghan population.
We  also  call  for  continued  international  and 
regional  support  for  holding  free  and  fair  elections 
in  Afghanistan  in  2014.  In  the  political  context, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  supports  the  peace 
and  national  reconciliation  efforts  of  the  Afghan 
Government.  We  emphasize  the  importance  of  fully 
observing  Afghanistan’s  Constitution  and  the  need  to 
adhere to the principle of an Afghan-led and Afghan-
owned  reconciliation  process.  Any  effort  towards 
that  goal  should  be  undertaken  without  any  external 
pressure  or  interference  and  without  appearing  to 
reward  either  those  who  advocate  extremist  policies 
or  the  perpetrators  of  terrorist  acts.  I  should  also 
emphasize that the United Nations, including through 
its Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, should continue 
its active role in Afghanistan post-2014.
As  in  any  other  country,  in  Afghanistan  security 
is a prerequisite for the success of efforts in all areas. 
Therefore,  enhancing  the  security  of  Afghanistan 
should  continue  to  be  the  highest  priority.  In  our 
view,  the  complete  withdrawal  of  foreign  forces  from 
Afghanistan in 2014 should be followed by the strong 
support  of  the  international  community  in  equipping 
Afghan  forces  at  a  level  commensurate  with  existing 
security  threats,  in  particular  from  terrorists,  illegal 
armed groups and organized criminals.
In that context, I would like to stress that special 
attention  should  be  paid  to  combating  the  interlinked 
22/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
sources  of  insecurity  and  instability  in  Afghanistan, 
in  particular  the  production  of  and  trade  in  narcotic 
drugs  as  the  source  of  financial  support  for  terrorist, 
extremist  and  illegal  armed  groups.  In  addition  to 
support  for  the  Afghan  Government  in  that  regard, 
continued  international  support  for  the  triangular 
counter-narcotics  initiative  among  Afghanistan,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan is essential. That 
is vital, not only to strengthen the security and stability 
of Afghanistan, but also to alleviate the serious concerns 
of  neighbouring  States  and  of  the  drug-trafficking 
transit and destination countries.
To  control  its  nearly  1,000-kilometre  common 
border  with  Afghanistan,  which  is  a  major  transit 
route  for  narcotic  drugs  from  Afghanistan  to  Europe, 
the Islamic Republic of Iran spends over $600 million 
annually.  Moreover,  as  I  have  said  before,  more  than 
4,000  Iranian  law-enforcement  personnel  have  been 
martyred in fighting against drug smugglers. In view 
of  the  rise  in  opium  poppy  cultivation,  as  well  as  the 
advanced  techniques  used  by  drug  traffickers,  Iran 
cannot sustain this trend without the strong support of the 
international community, including through supplying 
adequate advanced border-control technologies.
As part of the regional efforts in combating drug 
trafficking  and  its  associated  challenges,  a  regional 
training  workshop  on  anti-money-laundering,  illegal 
financial flows and suspect cash transactions was held 
in  Tehran  in  July,  bringing  together  senior  experts 
from  Afghanistan  and  its  neighbouring  countries. 
Moreover,  Iran  also  hosted  the  Seventh  Regional 
Financial 
to  enhance 
regional  cooperation  in  tackling  money-laundering 
and  suspicious  financial  transactions.  The  aim  is  to 
facilitate a common instrument to improve information 
exchange  with  respect  to  suspicious  transactions,  as 
well as to tackle the profits of drug trafficking.
Intelligence  Unit  meeting 
Unfortunately,  millions  of  Afghan 
refugees 
continue  to  live  in  host  countries,  in  part  because  of 
inadequate  international  support  for  improving  the 
conditions for their return. Iran stresses the importance 
of meeting the reasonable needs of repatriated refugees 
in Afghanistan in order to enhance the trend of voluntary 
repatriation. Currently, there are over 3 million Afghan 
refugees in Iran, the majority of whom reside in urban 
areas  and  are  assisted  with  their  basic  needs  and 
essential services. Despite the unilateral economic and 
financial  sanctions  imposed  on  Iran,  my  country  has 
continuously  tried  to  improve  the  health  status  of  the 
refugee population across the country by offering them, 
among other things, access to free primary health care. 
At least 80 per cent of the refugee population benefit 
from health insurance.
With respect to education, currently 320,000 Afghan 
students are studying at schools and 8,000 are enrolled 
in universities in Iran, shoulder to shoulder with Iranian 
students. My country spends over $400 million a year 
for  educational  programmes  for  Afghan  refugees.  As 
a result, the literacy rate of Afghan refugees has risen 
from 6 to 70 per cent over the years. While making every 
effort for the voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees, 
Iran  calls  on  the  international  community  to  allocate 
the necessary and adequate funds for the development 
ot  the  educational  and  health  environments,  facilities 
and  equipment  for  Afghan  refugees  in  Iran,  pending 
their repatriation.
and 
economic 
Sustained 
comprehensive 
economic 
development  in  Afghanistan  is  critical,  not  only 
to  provide  grounds  conducive  to  the  repatriation 
of  refugees  and  to  combat  challenges  such  as  the 
production of and trade in narcotic drugs, but also to 
achieve long-term security and stability in that country. 
We stress the need to pay special attention to rebuilding 
Arghanistan’s 
infrastructure.  While 
considerable  commitments  for  the  reconstruction  and 
economic development of Afghanistan have been made 
at the major international and regional conferences on 
Afghanistan  during  the  past  several  years,  they  need 
to  be  fully  implemented.  As  an  active  player  in  the 
reconstruction  of  Afghanistan’s  economy,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  has  granted  more  than  half  a  billion 
dollars  for  various  projects  in  Afghanistan  and  has 
supported and implemented many projects in such areas 
as  roads,  railways,  energy,  mining  and  agriculture. 
I  had  the  honour  to  chair  the  bureau  concerned  with 
those areas in Iran before taking up my position here.
a 
stable 
secure, 
Building 
and  prosperous 
Afghanistan is indeed crucial, not only for the future 
of the Afghan people, but also for enhancing peace and 
stability  in  the  region  and,  of  course,  in  the  world  in 
general. More coherent and better coordinated regional 
efforts  are  therefore  needed  to  ensure  the  sustainable 
socioeconomic  development  of  Afghanistan.  The 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  engaged  in  a  number 
of 
initiatives  on  Afghanistan, 
including  those  promoting  economic  cooperation.  As 
an active participant in the Heart of Asia and Istanbul 
processes,  Iran  welcomes  the  adoption  of  plans  on 
important  regional 
13-57251
23/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
confidence-building  measures  between  Afghanistan 
and its neighbouring countries. Regarding educational 
confidence-building  measures  within  the  Heart  of 
Asia process this year, Iran hosted two meetings of the 
relevant working groups.
To conclude, I would like to stress that Afghanistan 
is passing through an important phase in its history. The 
Afghan people are inspired by the prospects of a future 
free  from  violence  and  war.  That  nation  deserves  our 
help in taking full charge of its destiny. We are looking 
forward  to  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/68/L.11 
by consensus, which is indeed a good signal indicating 
that the international community of States is united in 
support of the Afghan people.
Mr.    Raja  Zaib  Shah  (Malaysia):  On  behalf  of 
my delegation, I wish to extend our appreciation to the 
Secretary-General  for  his  most  recent  report  on  the 
situation in Afghanistan (A/68/609).
This  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly 
is 
particularly  significant,  as  Afghanistan  is  on  the 
cusp  of  a  milestone  in  its  history.  There  will  be  two 
crucial  developments  in  the  year  2014,  namely,  the 
presidential  elections  and  the  complete  withdrawal  of 
the  International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF). 
Those  developments  will  determine  the  trajectory  of 
the  country  for  years  to  come.  The  Government  of 
Afghanistan has also laid out its vision for the future in 
its transition agenda up to 2014, which is to be followed 
by  the  ambitious  transformation  decade  2015-2024. 
Progress is firmly in the hands of the Government of 
Afghanistan and its people. Nonetheless, that does not 
mean the international community can merely hold its 
breath and expect a positive outcome. Rather, we must 
play an active role in providing assistance and support 
to  Afghanistan  to  ensure  that  the  objectives  of  the 
transformation decade can be achieved.
On  the  political  front,  Malaysia  is  heartened  by 
the  positive  momentum  reported  by  the  Secretary-
General  on  preparations  for  the  2014  presidential  and 
provincial council elections in Afghanistan. We join the 
international community in expressing our firm support 
for those pivotal elections. Malaysia is convinced that a 
peaceful, democratic transfer of power in Afghanistan 
will provide the Government with the stability needed 
for the country’s continued progress and development.
A smooth political transition in Afghanistan hinges 
upon  a  democratic  process  and  outcome  that  has  the 
confidence of both the people of Afghanistan and the 
international  community.  We  commend  the  Afghan 
Government for the various measures taken to ensure 
that  the  elections  are  free,  fair  and  inclusive.  Among 
those  measures  are  the  enactment  of  key  legislation 
designed  to  strengthen  the  electoral  process  and 
the  timely  appointment  of  commissioners  to  the 
Independent Election Commission.
Political  development  in  Afghanistan  is  taking 
place against a shifting security landscape, with ISAF 
scheduled  to  withdraw  by  the  end  of  2014.  Malaysia 
joins  other  countries  in  expressing  strong  confidence 
in  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces,  which  have 
assumed full responsibility over security operations in 
the country in the final phase of the security transition. 
The transfer of responsibility from ISAF to the Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  is  key  to  reclaiming  and 
strengthening  Afghan  sovereignty.  Nonetheless,  it 
is  also  imperative  that  the  international  community 
continue to provide the necessary support to the Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  to  sustain  security  efforts 
before  and  after  the  complete  withdrawal  of  ISAF  in 
2014.
On  that  note,  we  view  with  concern  the  security 
situation  in  Afghanistan:  there  is  still  an  alarming 
number  of  civilian  casualties  due  to  terrorist  and 
insurgent  attacks.  Malaysia  condemns  the  continuing 
attacks  on  innocent  civilians,  particularly  women 
and children, who can never be considered legitimate 
targets under international humanitarian law.
On  a  related  note,  Malaysia  sees  the  ongoing 
reconciliation efforts as a vital component in securing 
lasting  peace  and  stability.  We  support  the  Afghan 
Peace and Reintegration Programme and the progress 
it has made in rehabilitating and reintegrating former 
insurgents  into  the  community.  We  stress  that  the 
national reconciliation and reintegration process must 
remain  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned.  At  the  same 
time,  we  encourage  and  support  Afghanistan’s  close 
engagement  with  neighbouring  countries,  regional 
partners  and  the  international  community  at  large  in 
order to tackle the root causes of insurgency, including 
discontent born from the lack of economic opportunity 
or inequitable development.
Malaysia reiterates its view that Afghanistan would 
benefit enormously from the inclusion and contribution 
of women in the political, economic and social spheres. 
We support the ongoing efforts of the Government of 
Afghanistan to strengthen the protection, participation 
and empowerment of women. However, the continued 
24/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
targeting  of  women 
in  high-profile  Government 
positions  is  a  cause  for  great  concern.  We  urge  the 
Government of Afghanistan to take stringent measures 
to ensure the safety and protection of women serving 
the Government and enhance safeguards for women in 
the community.
that 
it 
takes 
time 
We  recognize 
to  change 
perceptions  and  entrenched  stereotypical  values,  but 
we sincerely believe that the results are well worth the 
effort. We also understand the need to take into account 
religious,  cultural  and 
in 
furthering the rights of women, which is a balance that 
Malaysia has worked to achieve. Malaysia is willing to 
share our experience in enhancing the involvement and 
development of women in all facets of life in accordance 
with Islamic principles.
traditional  sensitivities 
Malaysia appreciates the work of the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  in  cooperation 
with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  laying  the 
foundations for sustainable development and peace in 
the country.
Malaysia  is  also  firmly  supportive  of  the  various 
regional  and  multilateral  forums 
that  focus  on 
Afghanistan,  which  provide  further  avenues  for 
engagement between Afghanistan and the international 
community.  We  participate  actively  in  the  triannual 
meetings  of  the  International  Contact  Group  on 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan,  the  most  recent  of  which 
was held in New York in September, at which the Group 
collectively  underscored  the  importance  of  the  roles 
played  by  the  United  Nations,  regional  partners  and 
the  larger  international  community  in  Afghanistan’s 
future. We also recall the successful Tokyo conference 
of  2012,  during  which  the  international  community 
made  generous  pledges 
in  development  aid  for 
Afghanistan, and we welcome the follow-up meeting of 
senior officials in July 2013. My delegation hopes that 
all  parties  will  honour  their  commitments  under  that 
framework in order to allow for the continued progress 
and development of the country.
For  our  part,  Malaysia  stands  ready  to  support 
Afghanistan  in  its  rebuilding  efforts.  The  Malaysian 
armed  forces  medical  contingent  stationed  in  Bamian 
province provided much-needed medical, dentistry and 
health-care  services  to  the  Afghan  people  from  July 
2010 until April 2013. We are willing to explore further 
ways in which we can continue to provide humanitarian 
assistance to Afghanistan. Malaysia will also continue 
technical 
to  provide  opportunities  for  capacity-building  and 
human resources development to Afghanistan through 
bilateral 
training  programmes,  such  as 
the  Malaysian  technical  cooperation  programme  in 
various fields. We are ready to work with the Afghan 
Government  to  identify  areas  where  we  can  provide 
training, areas that are most relevant for the country’s 
developmental needs.
The  gains  made  in  Afghanistan  in  the  political, 
economic  and  social  spheres  must  be 
further 
strengthened  to  ensure  lasting  peace,  stability  and 
growth. The international community has resoundingly 
united  behind  Afghanistan.  We  must  sustain  our 
efforts to ensure that it  receives the backing it needs 
to achieve the noble aspirations it has set for itself as a 
nation. In that regard, Malaysia continues to stand with 
the international community in support of Afghanistan 
through 2014 and beyond.
Mrs. Miculescu (Romania): Romania fully aligns 
itself with the statement delivered earlier by Ambassador 
Thomas  Mayr-Harting,  Head  of  the  Delegation  of  the 
European  Union  to  the  United  Nations.  I  would  also 
like to express a few thoughts in my national capacity.
We take note of, and are grateful for, the Secretary-
General’s latest report on the activities undertaken by 
the  United  Nations  in  Afghanistan  (A/68/609)  during 
the three-month reporting period. We also express our 
appreciation to the Permanent Mission of Germany for 
admirably conducting the negotiations and introducing 
draft  resolution  A/68/L.11.  Romania  is  a  traditional 
sponsor of the resolution on this item.
Those documents, and the remarks delivered both 
by the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan and all 
previous speakers, represent a solid ground for further 
approaches and actions. If one could sum up one main, 
common idea from them all, it would be that during the 
past  decade,  despite  so  many  challenges,  the  Afghan 
people,  with  the  international  community’s  support, 
have achieved considerable political, security, economic 
and developmental progress. My country is pleased to be 
part of that undertaking. During those years, Romania’s 
contribution  to  the  stabilization  process  followed  the 
path  of  internal  developments  in  Afghanistan.  Thus, 
from our exclusively military engagement in 2002, we 
became involved in training Afghan military and police 
forces, in operational mentoring, in contributing to the 
European Union police mission, and in providing close 
protection for senior United Nations officials.
13-57251
25/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
Let me illustrate that evolution with a few concrete 
examples that occurred this year that illustrate Romania’s 
contribution  to  institution-building  in  Afghanistan. 
They are part of my country’s commitments assumed at 
the NATO Summit in Chicago with regard to military 
matters and at the International Donors Conference in 
Tokyo with regard to civilian aspects, as well as in the 
framework  of  Romanian-Afghan  bilateral  relations.  I 
wanted to give those examples because they reflect the 
path towards normality.
In March, Romania’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 
jointly with United Nations Development Programme, 
launched a pilot programme for Afghan diplomats. The 
purpose was to familiarize 10 young Afghan diplomats 
with  Romania’s  and  the  region’s  foreign  policy  and 
perspectives.  The  training  programme  is  financed 
through development assistance funds that the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs has been allocating for Afghanistan 
since 2007.
involved 
Another  example,  which 
reflecting 
together on the future, was the Bucharest Forum 2013, 
entitled “Anchoring the New Silk Road, Linking Three 
Seas: Caspian, Black Sea and the Adriatic”, organized 
last  September  by  the  Aspen  Institute  of  Romania. 
The  Minister  of  Economy  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan,  Mr.  Abdul  Hadi  Arghandiwal,  was  a 
guest. I could cite more examples, but I would like to 
underline  my  country’s  clear  political  commitment  to 
maintain its military participation in the International 
Security  Assistance  Force  until  the  end  of  2014,  and 
its  availability  to  train,  advise  and  assist  the  Afghan 
National Security Forces in the framework of the post-
2014  NATO-led  mission  in  Afghanistan.  From  that 
point of view, we welcome the recent developments in 
the  United  States-Afghan  dialogue  on  the  status  of  a 
future foreign presence.
Finally, I would like to point to a topic of particular 
interest  for  Romania  that  turned  out  to  be  a  lesson 
learned  from  the  engagement  of  the  international 
community in Afghanistan, and that is the importance 
of  the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  regional  and  subregional  organizations.  In  that 
regard,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for 
the  collaboration  and  joint  actions  of  the  Special 
Representatives of the United Nations, European Union 
and NATO to support the Afghan authorities and people 
in their quest not only for peace, security and stability, 
but also for democracy, rule of law, human rights, and 
social and economic development. Romania will always 
support  the  complex  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned 
quest. We are confident that one day it will lead to the 
peaceful, stable and prosperous future that Afghanistan 
deserves.
Mr. Ružička (Slovakia): My delegation aligns itself 
with the statement delivered earlier by the Head of the 
European  Union  Delegation,  Ambassador  Thomas 
Mayr-Harting.
Like  others,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/68/609)  and  the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan for his statement. I also 
appreciate  both  the  work  and  effort  of  the  delegation 
of Germany, which convened constructive and fruitful 
consultations on the draft resolution (A/68/L.11), and of 
all the delegations that participated in the process.
In  our  view,  the  draft  resolution  reflects  many  of 
the challenges that lie ahead with regard to the role of 
institutions in Afghanistan in the transition process. I 
would like to single out the upcoming presidential and 
provincial  elections,  human  rights  and  the  rights  of 
women and girls in particular. The expected consensual 
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  is  significant  in  both 
formal  and  substantial  terms.  The  international  and 
regional  actors,  including  the  United  Nations  and  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan, 
have expressed their willingness and readiness to assist 
the  Afghan  Government,  and  they  remain  strongly 
committed to progress in Afghanistan. Let me reiterate 
some elements that we deem to be important.
The  first  is  national  ownership.  We  welcome  the 
recognition that all processes should be Afghan-led and 
Afghan-owned.  The  commitment  of  the  Government 
of Afghanistan to continue in the process of transition, 
stabilization,  peace  and  reconciliation  in  general  and 
the  active  participation  of  Afghan  representatives  in 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  in  particular are 
promising political elements for future developments.
Second  is  the  dynamics  of  the  process  and  the 
need  for  good  news.  The  measurability  of  progress 
in  Afghanistan  is  the  best  evaluation  criterion.  In 
assessing the current situation there, we have in mind 
the challenges that remain and those that may appear on 
the stony road to stability. But we also need good news. 
We  need  positive  stories  and  examples  to  encourage 
the  Afghan  people  not  to  turn  back  from  the  road  to 
stability, security and freedom. I am sure that over the 
past decade progress has been achieved in all areas of 
life and society.
26/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
Regrettably, most  of the news coverage is related to 
the number of attacks, the fragile security situation or 
persistent non-military threats. By no means should we 
underestimate those challenges. It would be a mistake 
to bury our heads in the sand. However, it would also be 
a mistake if we did not properly promote good practices 
and progress. They are significant mobilization factors 
for many investors and politicians, but above all for the 
Afghan  people.  For  instance,  we  can  simply  compare 
the text of this draft resolution with documents adopted 
10 years ago to see what has been achieved and what 
remains.
The  third  element  is  economic  development  and 
sustainability,  Afghanistan  is  a  country  with  trillions 
of dollars’ worth of mineral resources. That is both an 
opportunity and a challenge. It may be a temptation for 
many, as well as a vehicle for development for most. But 
our decisions must be right, fair and global. To make use 
of  those  resources,  long-term  financial  resources  and 
investments are needed for infrastructure, technology 
and  transportation.  And  any  long-term  investment 
requires  stability,  transparency  and  an  appropriate 
legal  framework.  Which  road  will  we  choose  after 
2014 — the road to years or maybe decades of conflict, 
or the way to stability and prosperity? That question is 
addressed not only to the international community and 
the Afghan leaders but to all the population. I am sure 
the Afghan people know what the right answer is.
The  fourth  is  regional  cooperation.  Without  any 
doubt,  regional  cooperation  is  among  the  promising 
examples of the improved situation. The unprecedented 
intensity of regional dialogue and confidence-building 
measures  among  Afghanistan  and 
its  neighbours 
should  contribute  to  an  enhanced  ability  to  jointly 
combat  non-military  security  threats,  including  illicit 
trafficking in humans and drugs. It should also promote 
trade and development in border regions. International 
and regional initiatives such as those led by the Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization,  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty  Organization,  the  South  Asian  Association 
for  Regional  Cooperation,  the  Regional  Economic 
Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan  process,  the 
European Union and the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe should play an important role.
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  the 
conferences on Security and Cooperation in the Heart 
of  Asia  held  in  Istanbul,  Kabul  and  Almaty,  which 
launched  and  further  developed  the  Istanbul  Process 
on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure 
and Stable Afghanistan. We are looking forward to the 
fourth Heart of Asia ministerial conference, to be held 
in Tianjin, China, in 2014.
The Slovak Republic reiterates its commitments to 
continue assisting Afghanistan in the fields of security 
stabilization  and  social  and  economic  development. 
The  Slovak  Armed  Forces  will  continue  to  provide 
the  required  capabilities  to  the  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  led  by  NATO  until  the  end  of  its 
mission in 2014. Slovakia intends to contribute to the 
new NATO post-2014 training, advisory and assistance 
mission as well. The Government of Afghanistan and 
the international community must ensure that the new 
mission has a sound legal basis and that the necessary 
conditions are met for the successful fulfilment of its 
mandate.
In 
addition 
to  our  military 
contribution, 
Afghanistan remains the priority of Slovakia’s official 
development assistance. The nature of our development 
assistance reflects many issues that have already been 
mentioned in this statement and by many delegations. 
We  note  Afghanistan’s  progress,  and  we  support 
institution-building  that  complements  and  contributes 
to  the  development  of  an  economy  characterized  by 
sound  macroeconomic  policies.  We  encourage  the 
development of a financial sector that provides services, 
inter alia, to microenterprises, small and medium-sized 
enterprises, and households.
We  firmly  believe  that  this  is  the  way  forward. 
We  should  speak  less  and  do  more  in  responding  to 
current  and  future  challenges.  We  definitely  should 
speak more about the positive developments that have 
been  achieved  so  far.  We  believe  that  assistance  to 
Afghanistan in the field of security stabilization must 
be  complemented  by  common  projects  focused  on 
support  for  Afghan  economic  development  and  trade 
relations. We must continue to reiterate the importance 
of  respecting  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights.  They 
are  connected  to  a  transparent  and  stable  business 
environment  and  improved  accountability,  which  in 
turn  attract  international  stakeholders  and  investors. 
We  must  encourage  regional  cooperation,  which  will 
provide the opportunity for border regions to be fully 
integrated in the stabilization processes.
Mrs. Hrdá (Czech Republic): The Czech Republic is 
pleased to join other Member States in co-sponsoring 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
(A/68/L.11). The draft resolution reflects the fact that 
13-57251
27/29
A/68/PV.55 
20/11/2013
the  international  community  remains  committed  to 
supporting  the  Afghan  people  in  building  a  secure, 
stable  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  through  the  2014 
security  and  political  transition  and  beyond.  Let  me 
thank  the  German  delegation  for  the  excellent  work 
they have done in steering the negotiations on today’s 
resolution, as well as the Government of Afghanistan 
for their constructive engagement.
The Czech Republic aligns itself with the statement 
delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union.  I 
would like to add the following remarks in our national 
capacity.
We  recognize  the  remarkable  transformation  that 
Afghanistan has undergone over the past decade. Still, 
there will be many difficult months ahead, and many 
challenges  will  need  to  be  faced  and  resolved  before 
the country reaches the stability and prosperity that the 
Afghan people definitely deserve.
The  Czech  Republic  has  supported  the  efforts 
of  the  Afghan  Government  to  provide  security  for 
Afghan  citizens  since  2002.  From  2008  to  2013,  we 
were  involved  in  reconstruction  and  development 
assistance  in  Logar  province,  where  we  assisted  with 
a  local  Afghan  project  to  provide  higher  education  in 
agriculture.  Overall,  the  multifaceted  engagement  of 
Czech soldiers, policemen and civilian experts, as well 
as  humanitarian  non-governmental  organizations,  has 
been the most complex and most difficult in the history 
of the Czech Republic.
In the light of the ongoing security transition and 
the increased capacity of the Afghan National Security 
Forces, the Czech Republic has been gradually phasing 
its military personnel out of Afghanistan. However, that 
definitely does not mean that Afghanistan will no longer 
be given priority on our foreign policy agenda. We fully 
share the view that the international community must 
stay engaged in Afghanistan. The Czech Republic will 
continue its support beyond 2014 into the transformation 
decade. The Czech Government has already approved an 
on-budget financial contribution to support the Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  and  economic  development. 
That  assistance  will  complement  existing  funding 
under Czech development assistance and will be spread 
over the years 2014 to 2017.
It  must  be  emphasized 
long-term 
success  of  the  transition  and  the  sustainability  of  the 
international  assistance  are  entirely  in  Afghan  hands. 
The implementation of commitments under the Tokyo 
that 
the 
Mutual Accountability Framework remains a key aspect 
in that regard. In our view, it is very important that the 
Afghan reform effort be quickly restored and intensified 
after the elections. It is also of crucial importance that 
Afghanistan  continue  its  efforts  to  safeguard  basic 
human rights and principles, in particular the rights of 
women and girls.
The Afghan presidential elections of 2014 present 
an  opportunity  for  the  Afghan  leadership  to  show 
its  commitment  to  the  principles  of  the  Afghan 
Constitution.  Conducted  in  a  free,  fair,  inclusive  and 
transparent  manner,  the  elections  would  present  a 
major step towards a vision of a peaceful future for all 
communities in Afghanistan.
During the previous presidential elections in 2009, 
the  Czech  military  provided  security  for  voters  in 
the  remote  and  volatile  district  of  Azra  in  the  Logar 
province.  Almost  20,000  people  out  of  the  29,000 
voters registered at that time turned up to cast ballots. 
We hope that even more voters will participate in 2014 
and  that  the  Afghan  security  forces  will  succeed  in 
keeping the elections safe.
Mr. Çevik (Turkey): Let me at the outset thank the 
delegation of Germany for the efforts that it has made 
to  bring  today’s  draft  resolution  (A/68/L.11)  to  the 
table. I also would like to thank all the delegations that 
participated in the consultations on the draft resolution. 
We are glad to co-sponsor the draft resolution and are 
looking forward to its adoption by consensus.
We  welcome  the  positive  signals  coming  from 
Afghanistan in the past year. The military has assumed 
a full leadership role in security matters for the entire 
country. Preparations for the 2014 elections are ongoing, 
with  timelines,  operational  frameworks  and  proposed 
polling sites in place. More than a year after the Tokyo 
Conference,  we  are  glad  to  see  increased  efforts 
being  made  within  the  Tokyo  Framework  to  ensure 
the  concrete  implementation  of  mutual  commitments, 
on  the  part  of  both  the  Afghan  Government  and  the 
international  community.  We  are  also  happy  to  see 
indications  that  the  Afghan  Government  is  taking 
its  responsibilities  towards  its  people  seriously  and 
is  ready  to  move  forward  in  terms  of  human  rights, 
democratization and good governance.
Despite the positive signs, major political, economic 
and security challenges remain. The security situation 
remains  volatile,  and  unacceptable  human  losses, 
especially  in  terms  of  civilian  casualties,  continue  to 
28/29 
13-57251
20/11/2013 
A/68/PV.55
occur. Natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, 
epidemic  diseases,  chronic  poverty  and  increasing 
internal displacement pose grave humanitarian threats. 
The  most  vulnerable  segments  of  society,  especially 
women, boys and girls, continue to be at risk.
As Afghanistan moves forward in its political and 
security  transition,  we  must  remain  in  touch  with  the 
realities on the ground. The ongoing display of will by 
the international community will strengthen the Afghan 
people’s hopes for the future and will help ensure that 
a  smooth  transition  is  under  way.  As  Afghanistan’s 
regional and international partners, we should spare no 
effort to contribute to the vision of a secure, peaceful 
and self-sufficient Afghanistan. That is in the mutual 
interest of all of us.
As  the  international  presence  is  being  reduced, 
the  importance  of  regional  cooperation  for  achieving 
stability, security and prosperity is being increasingly 
recognized. 
and 
sustainability are interlinked. The viability of Afghan 
structures  and 
institutions  will  be  significantly 
strengthened, if it is supported by regional cooperation 
and ownership.
regional  ownership 
In 
fact, 
From  that  perspective,  we  are  glad  to  observe 
the  increased  momentum  in  the  Istanbul  Process,  an 
element that is recognized in the draft resolution before 
us. The spirit of regional ownership and solidarity, the 
engagement and technical support of the United Nations 
and  its  agencies,  and  the  interest  and  support  of  the 
international community have made that possible. We 
would like to take this opportunity to commend China 
once more for offering to host the next Istanbul Process 
ministerial meeting.
Trilateral  and  quadrilateral  initiatives  have  also 
shown  themselves  to  be  important  tools  for  fostering 
regional ownership in the heart of Asia. We welcome all 
such initiatives, as well as the constructive role played 
by the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in support 
of  Afghanistan.  Further  connectivity  will  facilitate 
economic development, stability and self-sustainability 
and help create a more favourable business environment 
in Afghanistan.
We attach particular importance to the completion 
and  maintenance  of  local  railroad  and  land  routes, 
the  development  of  regional  economic  projects  and 
the  enhancement  of  civil  aviation  capabilities.  We 
welcome  all  efforts  to  enhance  regional  connectivity 
and economic growth.
Turkey  will  always  remain  in  solidarity  with  the 
Afghan people and will continue to contribute to a safe, 
secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan,  as  we  have  done 
for so many decades.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 37.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.11,  entitled  “The  situation 
in 
Afghanistan”. I give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution and in addition to those delegations listed in 
document A/68/L.11, the following countries have also 
become sponsors of the draft resolution: Afghanistan, 
Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, 
Cyprus, Egypt, Eritrea, Finland, Georgia, Guatemala, 
Iraq,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lesotho,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Micronesia,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Morocco,  the  Netherlands,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Peru, 
the Philippines, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, 
Senegal,  Serbia,  Tajikistan,  Timor-Leste,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu and Viet Nam.
The Acting President (spoke in French): May I take 
it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/68/L.11?
Draft resolution A/68/L.11 was adopted (resolution 
68/11).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 37?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
13-57251
29/29
