United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
21st plenary meeting
Monday, 30 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.21
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. John Baird, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Canada.
Mr.  Baird  (Canada):  As  we  gather  near  Ground 
Zero,  site  of  the  World  Trade  Center  mass  murder,  I 
wish first to honour the victims of terrorism. I honour 
all  victims  everywhere,  including  those  killed  and 
wounded at the Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi.
(spoke in French)
Tragically, we lost two Canadians in Nairobi, including 
one of our diplomats. There is no more fitting venue to 
honour the life of Annemarie Desloges and her service 
than  right  here  at  the  United  Nations.  The  crime  of 
terror is an assault on all people. In its wake, the human 
family  is  one  —  united  in  pain,  mourning  and  our 
resolve that we will never allow evil to triumph.
(spoke in English)
At this moment of grief, the oneness of humankind is 
the theme of my remarks today.
Allow me to begin with an observation drawn from 
the Canadian experience. The province of Newfoundland 
and Labrador was the last province to join Canada, but 
it is the site of the earliest known European settlement 
in the New World. L’Anse aux Meadows is more than 
1,000 years old. We consider the province’s capital city, 
St. John’s, to be the oldest English settlement in North 
America, dating back to 1497.
The  early  Newfoundland  settlements  are 
the 
subject of significant archeological activity. Among the 
artifacts commonly found is a three-handled drinking 
mug  known  as  a  tyg.  The  three  handles  are  designed 
for  sharing.  During  the  seventeenth  century,  it  was 
common to share eating and drinking utensils. Further 
research reveals that the tyg is not unique to Canadian 
and English history. On the contrary, cups with three 
or  more  handles  are  common  to  many  of  the  world’s 
cultures.  Indeed,  nearly  three  millennia  ago,  Homer 
wrote in the Iliad of a multi-handled mug. The tyg and 
its  many  counterparts  around  the  world  are  tangible 
reminders not just of the fact that eating and drinking are 
social activities, but that, as long as human beings have 
inhabited this planet, sustenance and the necessaries of 
life have been community endeavours. Human beings 
share  out  of  necessity.  We  cooperate  to  survive.  We 
form communities because that is our natural state. As 
Cicero observed, we were born to unite with our fellow 
men and to join in community with the human race.
Animated  by  the  same  spirit  of  community,  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  declares  that  our  goals 
include to live together, to be neighbours and to unite. 
The  very  first  words  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations make clear that the Organization is a body of, 
by  and  for  human  beings.  It  begins,  “We  the  peoples 
of  the  United  Nations”  —  not  “We  the  countries”  or 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48917 (E)
*1348917*
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
“We  the  Governments”  or  “We  the  political  leaders”, 
but “We the peoples”. That is an important reminder of 
why and on whose behalf we are all here today.
At  the  United  Nations,  Canada  targets  its  efforts 
on  securing  tangible  results  for  the  human  family.  It 
is  much  more  important  to  consider  what  the  United 
Nations  is  achieving  than  how  the  United  Nations 
arranges  its  affairs.  Canada’s  Government  does  not 
seek to have our values or our principled foreign policy 
validated  by  elites  who  would  rather  go  along  to  get 
along. The billions who are hungry, or lack access to 
clean water, or are displaced, or cannot read and write 
do  not  care  how  many  members  sit  on  the  Security 
Council. But they do need to know that their brothers 
and sisters in humankind will walk with them through 
the darkness.
(spoke in French)
Peace,  prosperity  and  freedom  are  the  conditions 
that have been sought by human communities from the 
beginning of recorded time: to live in peace, to live in 
prosperity, to live in freedom.
(spoke in English)
Of  those  priorities  peace  is  the  foremost  objective  of 
the  United  Nations.  It  is  no  surprise  that  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  mentions  the  word  peace  four 
dozen times. Sadly, peace the word is easier to locate 
than  peace  the  condition.  Since  the  moment  the 
Organization was created, not a day has passed without 
the human family being pained by war somewhere on 
the planet. Almost always, the suffering is felt by the 
most vulnerable among us. Far too often, that involves 
women and violence.
In  the  context  of  war,  rape  and  serious  sexual 
violence  are  war  crimes.  I  have  met  girls  who  were 
victims  of  that  very  war  crime,  and  their  stories  are 
absolutely horrific. The war criminals involved must be 
identified, pursued, prosecuted and punished.  Earlier 
this  year,  Canada  and  other  Group  of  Eight  nations 
agreed to treat sexual violence in conflict as a violation 
of  the  Geneva  Conventions.  I  applaud  the  United 
Kingdom  and  Foreign  Secretary  William  Hague  for 
their work in this very important area. But he would be 
the first to acknowledge that the fight to eradicate this 
crime  has  been  led  by  women,  including  the  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on  Sexual 
Violence in Conflict, Ms. Zainab Hawa Bangura.
Tragically  every  year,  millions  of  girls,  some 
as  young  as  nine  years  old,  are  forced  into  marriage. 
Since  I  began  my  remarks  today,  100  children  have 
been forced into marriage at a rate of 1,100 per hour, or 
more than 26,000 per day. The effects of early forced 
marriage  are  documented  and  beyond  dispute.  Early 
forced marriage harms health, halts education, destroys 
opportunity and enslaves women in a life of poverty. A 
young  woman  once  recounted  her  wedding  date.  She 
remembered, “It was the day I left school”. No country 
is immune from this scourge.
(spoke in French)
This is a global problem — a problem for humankind. 
Forced marriage is rape — an act of violence against 
women. Early forced marriage is child rape — an act of 
violence against young girls. The practice is abhorrent 
and  indefensible.  We  condemn  it,  even  though  some 
might prefer that we kept quiet. The discomfort of the 
public is of small concern, particularly in the context of 
a crime that calls to heaven for justice.
(spoke in English)
If  the  United  Nations  does  not  act  to  protect  young 
girls, who will?
Another way to protect the vulnerable is to improve 
the  health  of  mothers,  newborns  and  children  so  that 
we can reduce the number of deaths. I would like to say 
how proud I am  of  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen 
Harper for having led a global effort — the Muskoka 
Initiative  —  to  reduce  maternal  and  infant  mortality 
and  to  improve  the  health  of  mothers  and  children  in 
the world’s poorest countries. That is about half of the 
world’s population, and all of its potential.
While  those  efforts,  to  eradicate  sexual  violence 
in  conflict,  to  eliminate  early  forced  marriage  and  to 
improve  maternal  and  newborn  health  are  essential, 
we must do more than react to crises. We must invest 
in opportunities for women and young girls. We must 
ensure that women participate fully in all parts of our 
society and in all the countries of the United Nations. 
That will help us build a stronger, more secure, more 
prosperous  and  more  peaceful  world.  It  is  in  every 
nation’s self-interest to ensure every young girl realizes 
her full potential. And it is from the perspective of the 
human family, one family, that we must address other 
threats to peace and security.
Among the most urgent crises remains the violence 
in  Syria.  Canada’s  position  is  clear:  we  support  the 
2/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
Syrian  people,  the  innocent  people  caught  up  in  this 
senseless violence and those who show great courage in 
working on their behalf. We will never support a brutal 
and illegitimate regime that has unleashed weapons of 
mass destruction on its own people. Nor will we tolerate 
extremism and terrorism as alternatives to Al-Assad’s 
tyranny.
The  people  of  Canada  have  been  generous  in 
helping those most in need. When success is achieved, 
I believe that it is important to recognize it. The near-
impossible  work  of  the  World  Food  Programme  must 
be applauded, and Canada has responded by being the 
second-largest  single-country  donor  in  the  world.  Its 
work in Syria is paramount and has not gone unnoticed. 
I  also  commend  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in providing 
assistance to the refugees fleeing that terrible conflict, 
as  well  as  the  generosity  of  Syria’s  neighbours  in 
providing safe haven.
Canada joins the entire world in seeking a political 
resolution to the conflict. Canada supports a peaceful, 
democratic and pluralistic Syria that protects the rights 
of all communities. But let us not confuse a peaceful, 
negotiated  outcome  with  equivocation  or  moral 
uncertainty. There can be no moral ambiguity about the 
use of chemical weapons, particularly against civilians.
Today,  30  September,  is  a  dark  reminder  of  the 
price  of  accommodation  with  evil.  It  is  the  seventy-
fifth anniversary of the Munich Agreement, by which 
Czechoslovakia’s  freedom  was  sacrificed  to  appease 
the Nazi regime. The appeasers claimed they had won 
peace in our time. In fact, their abandoning of principle 
was a calamity for the world. Nobel Peace Prize winner 
Elie Wiesel, a Holocaust survivor who was imprisoned 
at Auschwitz, has been even blunter:
the 
tormentor,  never 
“Neutrality  helps  the  oppressor,  never  the  victim. 
Silence  encourages 
the 
tormented.  Sometimes  we  must  interfere.  When 
human lives are endangered, when human dignity 
is  in  jeopardy,  national  borders  and  sensitivities 
become irrelevant.”
Just  as  we  are  not  neutral  or  silent  on  the  crimes 
being committed against the Syrian people, neither is 
Canada neutral on Israel’s right to exist and to defend 
itself. There can be no bargaining over Israel’s existence. 
While  dialogue  is  a  virtue,  there  can  be  no  virtuous 
discussion with anyone wedded to Israel’s destruction. 
Today, the Jewish people are masters of their own fate, 
like most other nations, in their sovereign Jewish State. 
And like all other nations, Israel has the right to defend 
itself, by itself.
Canada fundamentally believes peace is achievable 
and that Palestinians and Israelis and their neighbours 
can  live  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  We,  like 
many nations, wish to see a prosperous Palestinian State 
living in peace with its Jewish neighbour. That is why, 
although  at  times  we  have  fundamental  differences 
on  how  statehood  is  achieved,  Canada  is  providing 
significant assistance to build the institutions that are 
vital to the establishment of a viable future State. In the 
West Bank, Canada is contributing greatly to economic, 
security and justice initiatives.
Recent developments in negotiations between Israel 
and the Palestinian Authority are indeed encouraging. 
I  want  to  salute  the  leadership  and  courage  of  the 
Israeli Prime Minister and the Palestinian Authority’s 
President. I commend United States Secretary of State 
John Kerry for his personal leadership in this area. We 
must all commit ourselves to this cause, united by the 
prospect of peace.
I  look  forward  to  the  day  when  Israeli  and 
Palestinian children can live side by side in peace and 
security in a Jewish and in a Palestinian State.
Dialogue is important, yes. But our dialogue must 
be a prelude to action, and action must mean achieving 
results. Action must mean making a difference. If we 
take the recent statements coming from the regime in 
Iran, some observers see encouraging signs, but sound 
bites  do  not  remove  threats  to  global  security.  Kind 
words, a smile and a charm offensive are not a substitute 
for  real  action.  We  will  welcome  and  acknowledge 
reform,  if  and  when  it  comes.  By  the  following  test 
we will know when genuine reform has occurred: has 
there  been  real,  measurable,  material  improvement  in 
the lives of the Iranian people and in the security of the 
world? Not yet. We will judge the regime on the basis 
of its actions and results.
The  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council plus Germany have had five rounds of formal 
negotiations  with  Iran  in  the  past  two  years.  While 
everyone says the meetings have been productive, the 
fact  remains  we  have  not  seen  any  change  in  Iran’s 
actions. Next year, nothing would make Canada more 
pleased than to see a change in Iran’s nuclear ambitions, 
a change to its terrible human rights record and an end 
13-48917
3/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
to  its  material  support  for  terrorism,  including  for 
Hizbullah.
Now  is  the  time  for  the  global  community  to 
maintain tough sanctions against Iran so that the country 
takes  a  different  path  on  its  nuclear  programme.  The 
Iranian people want peace, and they are suffering great 
hardship  because  of  their  Government.  Canada  wants 
the Iranian people to be able to access a life of freedom 
and prosperity for themselves.
How do we as a human family achieve and maintain 
prosperity?  We  do  so  through  free  trade  among  open 
societies  operating  under  transparent,  consistent  and 
fair  rules.  Canada  continues  to  diversify  its  markets 
because  it  is  a  trading  nation.  We  are  aggressively 
pursuing  free-trade  agreements  with  other  nations. 
Bounded by three oceans, with the second-largest land 
mass in the world, Canada is literally open to the world. 
We are both deepening existing economic relationships 
and  building  new  ones.  Whether  with  China,  which 
is  now  Canada’s  second-largest  trading  partner,  or 
the  countries  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations, where Canadian trade and investment ties are 
dramatically increasing, or the Pacific Alliance, which 
provides new and exciting opportunities, or the European 
Union, where we are negotiating a comprehensive free 
trade agreement, Canada and Canadians are supporting 
market liberalization. In the process, ordinary lives are 
becoming enriched and entire societies stronger.
But the quest for prosperity must never come at the 
expense of our commitment to freedom. Prosperity is 
inextricably linked to peace. After all, those who lack 
security usually lack the means to provide for themselves 
and their families. With economic opportunity, a fruit 
vendor in Tunisia may not have felt compelled to end his 
life seeking the dignity to provide for his own family. A 
young man in Afghanistan may never feel compelled to 
join terrorist elements simply to raise his children and 
ensure that their lives are better than the one he lived.
I  will  always  remember  the  7-year  old  girl  that  I 
met  at  Zaatari  refugee  camp,  in  Jordan.  Her  parents 
had made the difficult decision to leave their home and 
to  seek  refuge  in  another  country,  braving  hardship 
because  they  were  motivated,  like  all  parents,  by  the 
desire to keep their family safe. I asked the young girl 
how  she  was  doing.  With  tears  in  her  eyes,  she  said 
simply, “I do not like it here. I want to go home.” It was 
absolutely heartwrenching. And millions of people are 
in the same tragic position around the world — millions 
of members of the human family who cannot even begin 
to contemplate prosperity until a more basic need, their 
need for security, is addressed.
The global family will never achieve the prosperity 
that is our full potential unless we address the peace and 
security  concerns  that  constrain  human  opportunity. 
Everyone has an interest in contributing to the solution, 
because  peace  and  prosperity  ultimately  ensure  the 
freedom  of  the  individual.  That  is  why  we  need  the 
people of these United Nations gathered here to promote 
that freedom: freedom from oppression, freedom from 
discrimination, freedom to worship, to think, to speak, 
to love, to believe — freedom to be.
Human  freedom  can  be  exercised  and,  sadly, 
limited  in  far  too  many  ways.  Religious  persecution 
continues  in  too  many  places.  Since  we  gathered 
here  last  year,  the  world  has  witnessed  bombings  of 
mosques in Iraq and Pakistan and Catholic churches in 
Tanzania; attacks against Hindu, Buddhist and Muslim 
places of worship in Burma and Bangladesh; the bloody 
persecution  of  Christians  in  Syria;  attacks  on  Coptic 
Christian  churches  in  Egypt;  attacks  on  a  mosque 
and  on  a  Catholic  church  in  Sri  Lanka;  the  detention 
of Sri Lankan Muslim leader Azad Sally; the murders 
of  Catholic  worshippers  in  Nigeria;  and  the  Iranian 
regime’s ongoing persecution of the Baha’i.
Canada  this  year  opened  an  Office  of  Religious 
Freedom. Its mandate is to promote freedom of religion 
and belief as a foreign policy priority, and to combat the 
enslavement into fear by those who seek to intimidate 
and  undermine  the  right  to  worship  freely  in  peace 
and  in  harmony.  We  reject  the  pernicious  notion  that 
human dignity can be sliced up, compartmentalized or 
compromised. In a pluralistic society, it is impossible 
to  protect  some  human  rights  and  freedoms  while 
infringing  others.  All  freedoms  are  rooted  in  the 
inherent dignity of human beings.
Whether  the  issue  is  religious  freedom,  sexual 
freedom,  political  freedom  or  any  other  freedom, 
some  people  ask:  What  business  is  it  of  ours?  What 
interest  do  we  have  in  events  outside  our  borders? 
Our business is a shared humanity. Our interest is the 
dignity of humankind. Many assaults on human dignity 
have  common  roots.  I  refer  to  neo-fascist  ideology 
masquerading in different forms, and the threat that it 
poses to individual freedom.
I  spoke  earlier  of  the  anniversary  of  the  Munich 
Agreement. What the signatories claimed as a triumph 
4/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
of  practical  politics  was  in  fact  a  craven  capitulation 
that  betrayed  human  dignity  and  bankrupted  the 
peace  it  purported  to  secure.  It  was  wrong  then  to 
underestimate and to appease fascism, just as it is now 
to  underestimate  its  modern  incarnation.  Extremism 
that  subjugates  human  dignity  and  crushes  individual 
freedom  beneath  rigid  ideology  must  be  opposed  for 
what it is.
One year ago, the world lost the great Somali poet 
known as Gaarriye. Although his pen has been silenced, 
the inspiring words remain. He wrote: “And tell them 
this:  our  purpose  is  peace;  our  password  ‘freedom’; 
our  aim,  equality;  our  way,  the  way  of  light.”.  In 
other  words,  peace,  prosperity  and  freedom  —  three 
universal human priorities. Like the three handles of a 
mug from which we all drink, they are three values that 
all humankind shares.
As  I  close,  I  cannot  help  but  reflect  on  the  three 
young  girls,  and  my  heart  breaks  for  them:  the  child 
bride who said, “It was the day I left schoo.”; the young 
girl who was a victim of rape and sexual violence; the 
refugee who said, “I just want to go home”. We are not 
here  to  achieve  results  for  Governments  or  political 
leaders. We are here to protect and defend those three 
girls and 7 billion other members of the human family. 
Let us remember that as we embark on discussions to 
shape a new global agenda, focusing on those most in 
need.
I  am  confident  that  everyone  here  feels  the 
overwhelming  honour  and  privilege  it  is  to  serve 
our  people.  It  is  not  without  great  challenge  and 
responsibility, but we all must stand up and deliver on 
that unique mandate for the people, for it is the people 
who expect nothing less.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Shaikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa (Bahrain) 
(spoke in Arabic): It gives me great pleasure at the outset 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Ashe  on  his  election  to  preside 
over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session 
and  to  pay  tribute  to  his  friendly  country,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda.  I  am  confident  that  his  vast  diplomatic 
experience,  with  which  I  am  personally  familiar, 
and  thorough  knowledge  of  international  affairs  will 
guarantee the smooth conduct and success of our work 
at this session.
I  express  my  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his  skilful  and 
judicious  management  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  I  would  like  also  to  strongly 
commend  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
tireless  efforts  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  and 
uphold  its  principles  despite  formidable  difficulties 
and increasing challenges. We pledge our full support 
to  him  in  his  endeavours  to  enhance  the  role  of  the 
Organization  and  its  peacebuilding  capacities  in  the 
face of such major challenges.
We extend our heartfelt condolences to the people 
and  the  friendly  Government  of  Pakistan  for  the  loss 
of hundreds of lives as a result of the earthquake that 
hit south-western Pakistan. We pray for their souls and 
extend  our  sympathy  to  their  families.  We  condemn 
the  terrorist  act  that  targeted  a  commercial  centre  in 
Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, and deeply regret the scores 
of  innocent  victims  who  lost  their  lives  as  a  result  of 
that cowardly act.
The Kingdom of Bahrain firmly believes that it is 
imperative to link peace to development. That concept 
has  been  acknowledged  in  and  by  all  United  Nations 
bodies  for  decades,  and  must  now  be  enhanced  and 
implemented  at  all  levels.  That  is  why  the  Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  is  working  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015,  as  a  top  priority  of  its 
development programme.
The most recent report of the Secretary-General on 
the work of the Organization (A/68/1) presents us with 
an accurate and concrete portrait of global problems in 
all their complexity. Those problems require effective 
solutions, particularly as we approach the 2015 deadline. 
In  our  view,  therefore,  the  President’s  choice  for  the 
theme  of  this  session,  “The  post-2015  development 
agenda: setting the stage”, is apt and well considered, 
calling  as  it  does  for  a  collective  effort  to  attain  the 
goals we seek, based on the recommendations contained 
in  the  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda, A New 
Global Partnership: Eradicate Poverty and Transform 
Economies through Sustainable Development, in order 
to ensure sustainable development. It also suggests the 
creation of a monitoring mechanism, under the auspices 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  to  follow  up  on 
all  recommendations  made  by  relevant  conferences 
on  issues  related  to  sustainable  development,  for  the 
benefit of future generations.
13-48917
5/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
is 
located 
in 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
the 
Arabian  Gulf,  a  region  of  vital  strategic  importance 
that  has  been  a  crossroads  of  world  civilizations 
since  time  immemorial.  The  countries  of  the  region 
are  experiencing  one  of  the  most  prosperous  eras 
in  their  history,  building  a  society  based  on  justice 
and  development  in  every  dimension  —  political, 
economic,  social  and  cultural.  As  successive  United 
Nations Development Programme annual reports have 
reflected, the region ranks high on the indices of human 
development. In that regard, we reaffirm our keen desire 
to continue making steady progress in development for 
the benefit of the peoples of our region, harnessing the 
formidable progress that has been made in information 
and communication technologies, as well as in dealing 
with issues pertaining to security, environment, natural 
resources and population.
As  a  vital  part  of  the  world,  our  region  seeks  to 
consolidate  a  new  concept  of  regional  security  that 
emphasizes  the  region’s  geopolitical  situation  and 
considers  security  in  relation  to  humanitarian  needs, 
food and water. It also considers security in the context 
of  existing  coalitions  that  link  the  region  to  friendly 
countries  through  strategic  and  historic  agreements 
that emphasize human, food and water security and that 
are  designed  to  reinforce  stability,  enhance  dialogue 
and promote a culture of peace, friendship and mutual 
respect.
We  in  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  the  other 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC)  countries  have 
designated three important strategic pillars that guide 
our  interaction  with  one  another  and  help  us  to  make 
progress,  build  healthy  and  sustainable  relations  with 
our  neighbours,  engage  with  the  world  at  large  and 
respond  to  new  developments  and  challenges.  Those 
pillars are axes for the world politics of today on a planet 
characterized by globalization and fruitful cooperation 
between  its  nations.  In  our  view,  therefore,  the  first 
pillar  is  regional  partnership  in  the  field  of  security, 
among  ourselves  and  with  our  world  partners. We 
in  the  GCC  system  work  together  to  preserve  our 
shared  stability  and  security  within  a  framework  of 
coordination,  cooperation  and  complementarity  that 
results  in  the  unity  we  seek.  Our  partnerships  extend 
across the Arab and Islamic world. Here in the United 
Nations  we  continue  to  pursue  such  partnerships  in 
the cause of maintaining world peace and security. We 
find  political  and  economic  solutions  to  many  global 
problems within a multilateral cooperative framework 
that encompasses other strategic partnerships through 
dialogue  with  political  Powers  and  economic  groups 
such  as  the  United  States,  the  United  Kingdom,  the 
European Union, the Russian Federation, China, Japan, 
India  and  the  member  States  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations, with a view to playing an active 
role  in  consolidating  the  principles  of  international 
cooperation and friendly relations between nations and 
peoples.
In  that  context,  our  principal  goal  is  to  spare 
humankind the scourges of war, conflict and disasters. 
We  therefore  call  for  the  establishment  in  the  Middle 
East, including the Arabian Gulf region, of a zone free 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear 
weapons,  and  for  compliance  with  the  criteria  and 
safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 
especially those related to nuclear safety. In that regard, 
we support the efforts of the five permanent members 
of the Security Council and Germany to work with the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  reach  a  swift  settlement 
of  the  issue  of  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  issue, 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  while 
guaranteeing the right of all States to enjoy the fruits 
of  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes.  We 
reiterate the importance of convening an international 
conference  on  establishing  a  zone  free  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear  weapons, 
in  the  Middle  East,  originally  proposed  for  2012,  in 
accordance with the resolution adopted at the May 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Consistent with the principles and purposes we all 
endeavour to uphold in the context of our cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  improve  stability 
in  sensitive  regions,  we  reaffirm  our  utter  rejection 
of  terrorism,  extremism  and  violence  in  all  their 
manifestations and forms, irrespective of their reasons, 
motives,  justifications  or  sources.  We  also  condemn 
all  terrorist  acts  that  threaten  regional  peace  and 
stability, and noted the need to add groups such as the 
Lebanese Hizbullah to the list of international terrorist 
organizations, in view of their criminal acts aimed at 
terrorizing  peaceful  civilians  and  creating  instability 
and chaos.
We are committed to seeking peace, cooperation and 
security for our countries, within the framework of both 
international and regional structures and organizations 
by  cooperating  with  our  allies  from  other  friendly 
6/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
countries  to  ensure  freedom  of  maritime  navigation 
in the Arabian Gulf and to protect commercial vessels 
from piracy off the coast of Somalia and the Horn of 
Africa and in the Gulf of Aden. We also contribute to 
peacekeeping and stabilization efforts in Afghanistan.
We  stand  by  the  sisterly  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt 
and support its efforts to achieve stability and security, 
rightfully  defend  its  vital  interests,  implement  a  road 
map that can lead it to safety and propose clear steps to 
meet the aspirations of the Egyptian people and restore 
Egypt’s leading role in the Middle East.
We  also  reiterate  our  principled  position  of 
unwavering support for and solidarity with the sisterly 
Kingdom of Morocco regarding its territorial integrity 
and  a  settlement  of  the  Western  Sahara  problem, 
in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.
The second of our three strategic pillars encompasses 
support  for  the  principles  of  good-neighbourliness, 
non-intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  others, 
abiding  by  the  provisions  of  international  law  and  its 
instruments  and  peaceful  coexistence.  We  are  also 
eager  to  take  advantage  of  opportunities  to  put  those 
principles into practice, in responding to the challenges 
we  face  and  transforming  them  into  opportunities  to 
protect the region from tensions, threats and instability.
The first of those challenges is the important task 
of putting an end to Iranian intervention in the internal 
affairs of the countries of the region and to its occupation 
of  the  three  Emirates  islands  of  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser 
Tunb and Abu Musa. We ask that the repeated calls of 
the sisterly United Arab Emirates for a just solution to 
that question be heeded, either through serious direct 
negotiations  between  the  two  countries  or  by  referral 
to the International Court of Justice for arbitration, in 
conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and 
the provisions of international law. In the face of that 
challenge, we look forward to new, clear and positive 
statements and initiatives from the Islamic Republic of 
Iran  that  can  help  to  end  the  tensions  and  instability 
in  the  region  and  contribute  to  confidence-building, 
cooperation and the establishment of friendly relations 
based on good-neighbourliness and mutual interests.
The  second  challenge  concerns  the  Palestinian 
question, and the need to arrive at a just, permanent and 
comprehensive solution that guarantees the legitimate 
rights of the Palestinian people. That challenge has led 
to an important opportunity, the Arab Peace Initiative, 
launched by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, 
King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al-Saud  of  Saudi 
Arabia, and endorsed at the Arab Summit in Beirut in 
2002.  We  still  believe  that  that  initiative  presents  an 
important  opportunity  to  secure  peace,  security  and 
a  bright  future  for  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples 
on  the  basis  of  coexistence,  cooperation  and  good 
neighbourliness between the Arab States and Israel.
We 
look 
forward 
to  overcoming  wars  and 
animosity.  For  centuries  Arabs,  Muslims,  Christians 
and  Jews  lived  side  by  side  in  the  region  and  forged 
their  common  history  in  a  framework  of  coexistence 
and tolerance based on mutual respect for each other’s 
beliefs, culture and religion. The Arab Peace Initiative 
stipulates  that  the  Palestinian  people  must  enjoy  all 
the full and legitimate rights enjoyed by other peoples 
of  the  world.  It  reaches  out  to  the  Israeli  people  with 
guarantees  of  security  designed  to  reassure  them 
against any threat or danger to their existence. In that 
respect, we fully support President Mahmoud Abbas in 
his sincere endeavours to achieve the aspirations of his 
people. He is one of the best leaders ever born in the 
land of Palestine and deserves our support in each of 
his steps toward the attainment of the desired peace.
Today, we reaffirm our support for the tireless and 
sincere efforts of United States Secretary of State John 
Kerry to relaunch the peace process between Israel and 
Palestine in order to reach a permanent solution on the 
basis of international law, the relevant United Nations 
resolutions,  the  two-State  solution,  the  creation  of  an 
independent Palestinian State on the basis of the 4 June 
1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and 
any agreed swaps of territory between the two parties. 
We look forward to seeing an end to the oppression of 
Palestinians,  the  lifting  of  the  Gaza  blockade  and  to 
a halt in the building of settlements. We welcome the 
correct stance of the European Union whereby it refuses 
to  acknowledge  the  legitimacy  of  Israeli  settlements 
built on Palestinian territory and suspends all financial 
dealings with such settlements.
The third pillar is the need to attain the aspirations of 
our peoples. Foremost among these are the need to raise 
living standards, to bring about peace and stability, and 
to ensure respect for human rights through pluralism, 
democracy  and  the  participation  of  all  in  a  continued 
dialogue that takes into account the cultural values of a 
society and the levels of political, economic, social and 
cultural development of its peoples.
13-48917
7/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
Throughout  the  modern  history  and  for  over 
two  centuries,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  been 
eager  to  interact  with  its  people  and  to  engage  in  a 
dialogue  with  them  based  on  full  transparency  and 
commitment. Ever since His Majesty King Hamad bin 
Issa Al-Khalifa assumed the leadership of the country, 
the Kingdom has pursued a steadfast policy of laying 
the  foundations  of  a  modern,  independent,  sovereign 
State  based  on  sustainability,  competitiveness,  justice 
and  a  commitment  to  constitutional  and  legislative 
reforms. Such reforms have encompassed every aspect 
of political, economic, social and cultural life, as well 
as  human  rights  and  an  enhanced  role  for  women 
in  building  a  society  faithful  to  its  values,  culture, 
accomplishments and heritage.
efforts 
to 
to 
the  sectarian 
and  organizational 
The  King’s  achievements  are  attributable 
to 
good  governance  and  to  his  support  for  intellectual, 
political 
create 
democratic  institutions  that  give  everyone  a  chance 
to use their talents and creativity as active citizens of 
the  contemporary  world.  That  has  made  our  country 
immune 
tensions  and  conflicts 
witnessed  in  many  other  countries  of  the  region, 
notwithstanding  the  acts  of  violence  perpetrated  by 
some extremist and terrorist groups targeting security 
officers,  residents  and  expatriates  in  their  quest  to 
spread terror and discord and to sabotage the national 
economy and development efforts. Such acts are being 
dealt with according to the law and justice system in a 
manner that protects the rights of all.
Convinced that Bahraini citizens have a role to play 
in  building  and  developing  their  society,  we  seek  to 
cooperate closely with national and international civil 
society and human rights organizations in an ongoing 
dialogue  based  on  an  exchange  of  experiences  and 
opinions and in a spirit of cooperation, not confrontation. 
We  are  all  parties  to  the  same  cause  in  which  we  all 
believe  —  support  and  respect  for  and  protection  of 
human rights. In that context, the Kingdom of Bahrain 
has achieved concrete results in the field of enhancing 
human  rights,  notably  through  the  establishment  of 
a  commission  for  prisoners  and  detainees,  a  national 
fund  to  compensate  those  affected  by  events,  and  a 
general secretariat for grievances within the Ministry 
of Interior.
In  that  spirit,  a  historic  initiative  proposed  the 
creation  of  an  Arab  human  rights  court  that  was 
endorsed at the meeting of the League of Arab States 
held in Qatar in March in response to the aspirations of 
the Arab peoples. This initiative represents a qualitative 
stride  for  the  region  and  conforms  to  the  rule  of  law 
and  similar  practices  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  For 
the first time in modern Arab history, we will have a 
court to establish a solid foundation for the protection 
of human rights in the Arab world.
Our national fund will compensate those affected 
by  events,  and  the  general  secretariat  will  address 
grievances within the Ministry of Interior operating as 
an autonomous body within the framework of national 
laws and professional policing standards, as stipulated 
in the police code of conduct.
In response to the aspirations of the Arab peoples, 
the  GCC  countries  have  spared  no  effort  to  achieve 
peace  and  security  and  to  restore  stability  in  some 
Arab countries facing serious challenges of late. In that 
respect, in Yemen a GCC initiative led to the national 
consensus  dialogue  towards  a  peaceful  settlement  of 
the crisis, in line with the aspirations and expectations 
of the brotherly Yemeni people to achieve security and 
stability in their land.
Eager to see stability restored in the Syrian Arab 
Republic,  and  cognizant  of  the  right  of  the  Syrian 
people to choose their own political system, we support 
the  current  diplomatic  steps  towards  destroying  the 
Syrian  chemical  arsenal  and  the  agreement  reached 
in Geneva between the United States and the Russian 
Federation.  We  welcome  Security  Council  resolution 
2118 (2013) of 27 September, which calls on all parties 
concerned to take serious and concrete steps to address 
the  Syrian  crisis  and  its  repercussions,  particularly 
paragraphs 16 and 17 related to the transitional period 
and  the  implementation  of  the  Geneva  communiqué 
(S/2012/523, annex).
All  of  these  efforts  should  be  complemented 
by  an  integrated  political  process  so  as  to  meet  the 
aspirations  of  the  Syrian  people  to  democracy  and 
political  pluralism.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations 
and  the  international  community  to  shoulder  their 
responsibilities  by  taking  the  appropriate  deterrent 
measures to halt the serious violations of human rights 
to which the Syrian people have been subject, and to put 
an end to the crimes of genocide being perpetrated with 
all kinds of lethal weapons, which have claimed more 
than 100,000 martyrs, injured many more, and created 
millions of refugees and internally displaced persons.
I will not speak at further length, but I would like 
to assure the Assembly that the Kingdom of Bahrain, 
8/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
out  of  a  sense  of  international  responsibility  and  in 
all honesty and sincerity, wishes to play an active role 
in  promoting  international  cooperation  and  strategic 
partnerships with the international community. Bahrain 
looks  forward  to  a  better  and  brighter  tomorrow  in 
which individual dignity and fundamental freedoms are 
a reality, and an individual’s just and legitimate rights 
are  protected.  Bahrain  rejects  conflicts  and  wars  and 
seeks to maintain friendly relations with all countries of 
the world within the framework of respect for national 
sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs, as 
stipulated by the principles and purposes of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Walid  Al-Moualem,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Expatriates of the Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in Arabic): I would like to congratulate Mr. Ashe, the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  his  friendly 
country,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  on  his  election  as 
President  at  the  sixty-eighth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. I wish him every success in conducting our 
work through his major and neutral role as President of 
the Assembly, like that of his predecessor, who avoided 
engaging the presidency in special political agendas.
Last  year  when  I  addressed  the  Assembly  (see 
A/67/PV.19),  we  were  compelled  to  address  many 
events that had ravaged our country and our world. We 
were full of hope that the scene would change for the 
better  this  year.  Unfortunately,  the  situation  remains 
the  same,  and  in  some  parts  of  the  world  has  even 
deteriorated. Many countries continue to face political, 
economic and financial crises that exceed their ability 
to  tackle  them  on  their  own.  While  the  international 
community  looked  forward  to  effective  international 
efforts to overcome those crises, today we bear witness 
to exacerbated and intensified problems.
that 
That  exacerbation  is  due  to  the  hegemony  and 
dominion 
thwart  peoples’  capabilities.  Such 
domination  has  escalated  in  a  way  that  blatantly 
contradicts the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the norms of international law. Instead of 
settling regional and international conflicts by peaceful 
means, some well-known countries continue to pursue 
aggressive  policies  against  certain  nations.  Political 
hypocrisy  allows  them  to  intervene  in  the  domestic 
affairs  of  States  under  the  pretext  of  humanitarian 
intervention  or  the  responsibility  to  protect.  When 
such  aggressive  policies  do  not  prove  beneficial  for 
the  countries  subjected,  including  my  own  country, 
Syria, those well-known States reveal their true beliefs 
and  threaten  blatant  military  aggression  outside  the 
mandates  of  the  Security  Council  and  certainly  well 
beyond any international consensus.
Those  same  countries  impose  immoral,  illegal 
and  unilaterally  coercive  economic  measures.  In 
addition,  they  maintain  paranoid  policies  aimed  at 
spreading  sedition  and  turmoil  within  pluralistic, 
harmonious national communities that had previously 
lived  for  hundreds  of  years  in  harmony,  unity  and 
understanding.  Worst  of  all,  those  countries  have 
launched major, destructive wars under the pretext of 
combating  terrorism,  even  as  they  support  terrorism 
in my country, in contravention of all United Nations 
resolutions and all human and moral values.
I  ask  the  same  question  I  posed  last  year:  Is  the 
international  consensus  on  combating  terrorism  a 
serious commitment undertaken by States Member of 
the Organization, or is it mere rhetoric, written down 
but not put into effect by certain countries?
What is happening in my country has become clear 
to everyone. Yet some countries do not want to recognize 
that Al-Qaida, the most dangerous terrorist organization 
in the world, and its many offshoots — including Jabhat 
Al-Nusra,  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant, 
the  Islamic  Brigade  and  many  others  —  are  fighting 
in  Syria.  While  scenes  of  murder,  manslaughter  and 
even the eating of human hearts were seen on television 
screens worldwide, that did not affect the conscience of 
those who chose to turn a blind eye. In my country, the 
heads of innocent civilians have been grilled because 
they violated some extremist ideology and held views 
that  deviate  from  those  of  Al-Qaida.  In  my  country, 
murderers  have  dismembered  human  bodies  while 
the  victims  were  still  alive  and  sent  their  limbs  to 
their families because those citizens were defending a 
unified and secular Syria.
In Syria — as in those countries that daily violate 
basic  human  rights  to  life,  livelihood  and  their  own 
religious beliefs and political affiliations — any Syrian 
citizen who does not belong to that obscurantist takfiri
ideology  is  doomed  to  be  killed  or  maimed  or  to 
witness female relatives taken as captives on the basis 
of perverted concepts of religion that have nothing to 
do with Islam.
13-48917
9/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
There is no civil war in Syria. It is a war against 
terror,  which  does  not  recognize  values,  justice  or 
equality  and  disregards  all  human  rights  and  laws. 
Therefore, confronting terrorism in my country requires 
the  international  community  to  act  in  accordance 
with  the  relevant  resolutions  on  counter-terrorism, 
particularly  Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001). 
It must take all necessary and immediate measures to 
compel those countries that are known to finance, arm, 
train and provide safe haven and passage to terrorists 
from different countries to stop doing so.
The city of New York and its people have witnessed 
the devastations of terrorism. They were burned by the 
fires of extremists and suffered bloodshed, just as we 
are  suffering  now  in  Syria.  How  can  countries  hit  by 
the  same  terrorism  that  we  now  suffer  in  Syria  claim 
to  be  fighting  terrorism  throughout  the  world  while 
supporting  it  in  my  country?  Claims  of  the  existence 
of  moderate  militants  and  extremist  militants  have 
become a bad and senseless joke. Terrorism means only 
terrorism. It cannot be classified as moderate terrorism 
and  extremist  terrorism.  What  should  we  call  those 
who kidnap children in order to sell their body organs 
outside  the  country?  How  should  we  describe  those 
who  recruit  children  and  prevent  them  from  going  to 
school  and  instead  train  them  to  shoot  and  kill?  How 
would one describe those who spread perverted fatwas 
concerning sexual or incest-related jihad?
We  were  the  ones  targeted  by  poisonous  gases  in 
Khan  al-Assal.  We  asked  for  an  investigative  mission 
and  demanded  that  its  mandate  include  the  ability  to 
determine who had used chemical weapons. However, 
the United States of America and its friends the United 
Kingdom  and  France  prevented  that  and  insisted  that 
the  mission  be  limited  to  deciding  whether  or  not 
chemical weapons had been used. In Syria, we waited 
five months for the mission to come. When it arrived, 
it  was  withdrawn  before  the  completion  of  its  task 
as certain States had begun to beat the drums of war 
against Syria.
My  country  has  accepted 
the  praiseworthy 
initiative launched by Mr. Vladimir Putin, President of 
the  Russian  Federation.  By  acceding  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention, Syria has proved its commitment 
against the use of such weapons. Syria also calls on the 
international community to shoulder its responsibility 
against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
in  the  Middle  East.  Syria  is  known  for  fulfilling  its 
obligations  and  commitments.  Therefore,  I  assure  the 
Assembly of Syria’s commitment to fully implementing 
the  provisions  of  the  Convention  and  to  cooperating 
with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical 
Weapons as a State party to the Convention.
One challenge that we all still face is not knowing 
whether  those  who  are  supplying  terrorists  with  such 
weapons will abide by their legal commitments, since 
the  terrorists  who  used  poisonous  gas  in  my  country 
received chemical agents from countries of the region 
and  the  West  that  are  well  known  to  all  of  us.  They 
are  the  ones  using  poisonous  gas  on  our  military  and 
innocent civilians alike.
Ending aggressive policies towards Syria is the first 
appropriate step on the road to a solution in my country. 
In  the  light  of  the  continuing  support  being  given  to 
terrorism,  whether  in  the  form  of  arms,  funding  or 
training, any political solution will be misleading and a 
mere illusion. Syria has repeatedly stated that it is open 
to a political solution to its crisis. It is now up to those 
who  claim  to  support  a  political  solution  for  Syria  to 
halt all practices and policies hostile to Syria and head 
to Geneva without preconditions.
people 
have 
the 
Syrian 
On  the  basis  of  their  national  right  to  self-
determination, 
the 
exclusive  authority  to  choose  their  leadership,  their 
representatives,  their  future  and  a  political  system 
that will accommodate every sector of Syrian society, 
including those who have been deceived and beguiled 
onto the wrong path. We in Syria place no bets on any 
party but the Syrian people, all of whom are determined 
to reject all foreign interference in their domestic affairs 
and to defeat the advocates of sectarianism, extremism 
and terrorism. In my country, State policies are firmly 
tied  to  the  aspirations  of  the  people.  Ballot  boxes  for 
free  and  fair  elections  remain  the  only  way  for  the 
Syrian people to determine their own future, free from 
the pressures of terrorism and foreign control.
There  remain  those  who  do  not  want  a  political 
solution and always resort to aggression, either directly 
or through their agents on the ground. That is what is 
happening in Syria. As I mentioned, Syria is committed 
to a political solution, but that does not mean allowing 
terrorists to attack innocent civilians. It does not mean 
watching  our  mosques  and  churches  be  destroyed,  as 
has  happened  in  Homs  and  Aleppo  and  is  happening 
now in the town of Malula, the only place in the world 
whose people still speak the language of Jesus Christ. 
What is happening to the churches and mosques is also 
10/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
affecting  the  entire  historical  and  cultural  heritage  of 
Syria and humankind.
Do  those  representing  the  Member  States  in 
the  Assembly  know  that  terrorists  from  more  than 
83 countries are engaged in killing our people and our 
army in the name of global takfiri jihad? Furthermore, 
are  some  Member  States  entitled  to  demand  that  the 
Syrian State ignore its constitutional responsibilities to 
protect its citizens and preserve its unity, sovereignty 
and independence? The war on terror is not only Syria’s 
war.  One  day,  those  terrorists  will  return  to  their 
countries,  and  then  no  country  in  the  world  will  be 
safe from that terrorism that recognizes no borders or 
geography.
The  events  in  Syria  have  created  humanitarian 
needs that continue to grow in several key sectors. The 
immoral,  inhumane  and  unilateral  sanctions  imposed 
by  the  United  States  and  the  European  Union  have 
worsened  Syrian  citizens’  living  conditions  at  a  time 
when  my  Government  is  working  with  the  United 
Nations  and  international  organizations  within  the 
framework of a response plan to meet the basic needs 
of  citizens,  particularly  those  who  have  been  forced 
to  leave  their  homes.  It  should  be  noted  that  many  of 
our  people  have  been  forced  to  flee  to  neighbouring 
countries  in  great  numbers  owing  to  the  activities  of 
armed terrorist groups in border areas. Regrettably, in 
some  of  those  countries  displaced  Syrians  have  been 
put  in  military  training  camps  and  places  resembling 
detention centres.
From  this  rostrum,  I  appeal  to  Syrian  citizens  to 
return to their towns and villages, where the State will 
guarantee  their  safe  return  and  dignified  livelihood, 
far  from  the  inhumane  conditions  in  such  camps.  I 
assure  the  Assembly  of  our  readiness  to  make  every 
effort  to  deliver  aid  from  international  organizations 
to all Syrian citizens without discrimination, wherever 
they  are,  in  compliance  with  resolution  46/182,  while 
respecting Syria’s sovereignty and independence.
The developments in my country should not make 
us  lose  sight  of  Palestine  and  the  Syrian  Golan.  The 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  affirms  its  natural  right  to  full 
sovereignty  over  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  up  to 
the  line  of  4  June  1967,  and  emphasizes  its  rejection 
of all measures taken by Israel, the occupying Power, 
to  change  its  natural  demographic  and  geographic 
features  in  clear  violation  of  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions, particularly resolution 497 (1981). 
Syria also reaffirms its support for the legitimate and 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, particularly 
their  rights  of  return  and  of  self-determination,  and 
to  establish  an  independent  State  on  their  land,  with 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Now  that  Syria  has  acceded  to  the  Convention 
on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development,  Production, 
Stockpiling  and  Use  of  Chemical  Weapons  and  on 
Their  Destruction,  my  country  renews  its  call  on  the 
international  community  to  work  to  establish  a  zone 
free  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle 
East. In that regard, we would remind the international 
community of Syria’s initiative, taken at the end of its 
non-permanent membership of the Security Council in 
2003, and call on the Security Council to adopt it.
Syria  stresses  that  establishing  a  zone  free  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East  will 
be  unachievable  without  the  accession  of  Israel, 
the  only  nuclear  Power  in  the  region,  to  all  treaties 
banning  such  weapons,  and  without  its  agreement  to 
put  its  nuclear  facilities  under  the  supervision  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. At the same time, 
we emphasize the right of all countries to acquire and 
develop  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  in 
accordance  with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  In  that  regard,  Syria  condemns 
the  fact  that  the  United  States  and  Israel  continue  to 
block  the  holding  of  the  international  conference  on 
establishing a zone free of weapons of mass destruction 
in the Middle East that was scheduled to take place in 
2012.
My country calls on the United States, the countries 
of the European Union and others to refrain from taking 
immoral unilateral economic measures that contravene 
the rules of international law and the principles of free 
trade. We therefore call for the lifting of the blockade 
that has been imposed by the United States on Cuba for 
decades. We also renew our call for lifting and ending 
all unilateral coercive measures imposed on Syria and 
the  peoples  of  countries  such  as  Venezuela,  Belarus, 
Iran and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
We  hope  that  the  United  Nations  will  lead  the 
peoples  of  the  world  towards  a  better  future,  so  that 
they  may  achieve  their  aspirations  for  prosperity, 
development  and  food  self-sufficiency,  free  from  all 
forms of tension, confrontation and war, thus fulfilling 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  upholds  the  sovereignty  and  equality 
13-48917
11/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
of  all  the  rights  and  duties  of  all  Member  States.  In 
that  regard,  my  country  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the 
United  States  and  Iran  to  bridge  the  gap  of  mistrust 
between the two countries, and hopes that this will be 
reflected constructively and positively in the stability 
of international relations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Rashid Meredov, Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet 
of  Ministers  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Turkmenistan.
Mr.  Meredov  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
At the outset, allow me to express our sincere gratitude 
for the honour of addressing the General Assembly from 
this  rostrum.  I  bring  greetings  from  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan,  who  wishes  the  General  Assembly  the 
best  of  luck  at  this  session.  I  congratulate  Mr.  John 
William Ashe on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session and wish him all 
the best in fulfilling his forthcoming tasks. I would also 
like to thank Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, for his skill and 
effectiveness in that post.
Turkmenistan  considers  this  session  to  be  an 
important  phase  in  the  process  of  consolidating  the 
efforts  of  the  international  community  to  strengthen 
universal  peace,  stability  and  security  by  adopting 
meaningful decisions on sustainable development and 
to counter emerging challenges and threats. We believe 
that strict adherence to the principles and norms of the 
Charter of the United Nations is the main prerequisite 
for ensuring long-term peace and strategic stability.
In  that  belief,  Turkmenistan  adheres  to  a  steady 
and resolute policy of peace, good-neighbourliness and 
the active promotion of peacebuilding processes. As a 
matter of principle, we reject the use of military force as 
a tool of foreign policy and international relations. Our 
country  is  convinced  that  solutions  based  on  the  use 
of force are doomed to fail. They neither eliminate the 
causes of conflicts nor create conditions for adequate 
responses  to  the  many  issues  that  arise  from  military 
action. Therefore, at the heart of Turkmenistan’s policies 
is the will to resolve any situation by peaceful, political 
and diplomatic ways and means, which it considers to 
be  the  main  legitimate  resources  available  within  the 
United Nations. This approach is based on our common 
goal to establish a world without conflict.
At the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, 
Turkmenistan’s President launched an initiative aimed 
at  the  adoption  of  a  United  Nations  declaration  on 
prioritizing  political  and  diplomatic  ways  and  means 
for  the  resolution  of  international  challenges.  Today, 
the elaboration of such a document has become a top 
priority.  Turkmenistan  therefore  reaffirms  its  firm 
desire  to  engage  in  a  meaningful  discussion  on  this 
initiative  with  all  interested  Member  States.  We  are 
convinced that the adoption of such a declaration would 
help  to  expand  and  strengthen  the  legal  basis  for  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council 
and  other  United  Nations  entities  dealing  with  issues 
relating to world peace, stability and security.
The  challenging  processes  unfolding  in  today’s 
world  call  for  a  responsible,  thoughtful,  effective 
and  efficient  approach  on  the  part  of  the  United 
Nations.  That  is  also  linked  directly  to  the  important 
challenges  of  disarmament.  By  playing  an  active  role 
in the multilateral dialogue on disarmament issues, my 
Government is demonstrating its firm commitment to 
complying with the core international norms regulating 
the  disarmament  process  and  the  non-proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  through  practical 
action.  Following  this  course  of  action  and  taking 
into consideration the need to energize the discussion 
and  meaningful  consideration  of  disarmament  issues, 
Turkmenistan proposes the convening in 2014 of a high-
level  international  meeting  on  disarmament  issues. 
We are prepared to create all the necessary conditions 
and  to  provide  the  appropriate  infrastructure  for  this 
meeting in our capital city.
Nowadays,  problems  related 
to  strengthening 
peace  and  stability  and  to  ensuring  the  stability  of 
countries  and  nations  are  among  the  most  important 
topics  in  global  politics.  Their  resolution  will  depend 
primarily  on  the  establishment  and  effective  legal 
and  organizational  operationalization  of  international 
political  cooperation.  In  this  context,  we  advise  the 
General  Assembly  at  this  session  to  embark  on  the 
consideration of issues relating to the improvement of 
various forms of multilateral interaction that could serve 
as a political platform for finding mutually acceptable 
decisions  on  urgent  regional  and  international  policy 
matters.
It  should  be  noted 
the 
United  Nations  fulfils  its  purpose.  For  example,  the 
establishment of United Nations preventive diplomacy 
centres  in  various  regions  of  the  world  has  become  a 
that 
in 
that  regard 
12/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
highly effective form of joint work to strengthen security, 
prevent conflicts and eliminate their underlying causes. 
It is well known that the first such centre, the United 
Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy  in 
Central Asia, based in Ashgabat, opened in December 
2007.  In  our  view,  the  experience  of  creating  new 
mechanisms and institutions aimed at forming a system 
of  international  interaction  at  the  global  and  regional 
levels must and should be replicated by States Members 
of the United Nations.
Taking  into  account  the  need  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  inter-State  contact  at  the  regional 
level,  Turkmenistan  has  launched  a  forum  of  peace 
and  cooperation,  aimed  at  establishing  a  standing 
mechanism  for  political  dialogue  in  Central  Asia. 
We  believe  that  the  forum  will  contribute  to  the 
elaboration  of  consensus-based  approaches  to  finding 
solutions  to  the  most  important  issues  relating  to  the 
present  and  future  development  of  Central  Asia  and 
its  neighbouring  regions.  Moreover,  the  forum  could 
become the basis for the establishment of a consultative 
council of the Heads of State of Central Asia. We are 
convinced  that  the  development  of  new  formats  for 
political  interaction  among  States  within  the  region, 
coupled  with  the  effective  functioning  of  United 
Nations  regional  structures,  will  provide  a  reliable 
foundation  and  stability  for  the  entire  architecture  of 
inter-State relations in Central Asia.
To  a  great  extent,  attaining 
the  goals  of 
comprehensive  and  universal  security  will  depend  on 
ensuring security in the sphere of energy. Furthermore, 
the  achievement  of  that  goal  is  one  of  the  most 
important components of a stable world economy and 
serves to protect it against distortions and disruptions. 
In that connection, the development of an international 
mechanism that provides for a set of guarantees for the 
global energy supply is a task of paramount importance. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  underscore  the  importance  of 
the  joint  work  and  coordinated  efforts  of  all  Member 
States aimed at developing and adopting consolidated 
approaches to the solution of energy security issues.
The establishment by the United Nations of a new 
universal  international  legal  tool  kit  is  a  key  element 
of  that  process.  It  should,  in  our  view,  consist  of  the 
following  three  major  elements:  a  multilateral  United 
Nations  document  providing 
legal  basis  for 
relations  in  the  area  of  the  global  supply  of  energy 
resources;  a  corresponding  United  Nations  structure 
that would ensure the implementation of the provisions 
the 
of the aforementioned document; and an international 
database  designed  for  the  collection  and  analysis  of 
data on the implementation of international obligations 
assumed by the participating States.
It is common knowledge that on 17 May 2013 the 
General  Assembly  adopted  by  consensus  resolution 
67/263,  submitted  on  the  initiative  of  Turkmenistan’s 
President, entitled “Reliable and stable transit of energy 
and  its  role  in  ensuring  sustainable  development  and 
international  cooperation”.  The  importance  of  that 
document  lies  primarily  in  the  fact  that  it  forms  the 
basis  for  a  global  energy  partnership  that  takes  into 
account the interests of producer States, transit States 
and States that are consumers of energy resources.
In accordance with the letter and the spirit of that 
resolution,  our  country  proposes  to  Member  States 
the  establishment,  during  the  current  session  of  the 
Assembly, of an international group of experts for the 
development of a new mechanism for energy security. 
To that end, the Government of Turkmenistan proposes 
to  convene  an  international  meeting  of  experts  on 
that  topic  in  2014.  We  are  ready  to  engage  in  close 
cooperation  with  all  Member  States  and  the  United 
Nations  Secretariat  with  a  view  to  organizing  and 
holding such a forum.
Currently  the  resolution  of  issues  of  security  and 
sustainable  development  depends  largely  on  the  level 
of  international  cooperation  in  the  important  areas  of 
transport  and  communications.  The  geo-economic 
potential  of  new  transport  and  transit  routes  in  the 
world  is  enormously  significant.  Such  routes  involve 
vast  spaces  and  enormous  human  resources  and 
attract  considerable  investments.  All  of  that  creates 
opportunities  to  transform  the  transport  sector  into 
one  of  the  most  important  factors  in  sustainable 
development.
transportation  architecture  provides 
Turkmenistan  is  convinced  that  the  twenty-first-
century 
the 
framework for a breakthrough in integration, in joining 
the  common  efforts  of  regions  and  in  the  pooling  of 
resources  and  industrial  and  human  potential.  It  is 
our  firm  conviction  that  the  future  belongs  to  such 
a  combined  system  of 
transport  communication, 
involving  major  international  and  regional  maritime, 
road,  railroad  and  air  hubs,  their  optimal  integration 
and the use of their specific advantages.
The  practical 
that 
idea 
became the subject of a high-level event on modality, 
implementation  of 
13-48917
13/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
the  post-2015  development 
interconnectivity  and 
programme,  which  was  held 
in  New  York  on 
26 September. It was organized by the Government of 
Turkmenistan  and  the  International  Road  Transport 
Union.  The  event  focused  on  the  search  for  effective 
solutions  relating  to  the  establishment  of  modern, 
diversified and safe transport infrastructure throughout 
the world.
role of multilateral international mechanisms aimed at 
preventing the negative consequences of global climate 
change. In particular, we refer to the need for enhancing 
the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the  United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. In that 
connection,  we  are  prepared  to  host  in  Turkmenistan 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification in 2014.
We consider it necessary to continue the multilateral 
dialogue  on transport  issues that  was  initiated during 
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  that 
connection,  Turkmenistan  would  like  to  submit  a 
proposal  to  host  in  2014  in  Ashgabat  an  international 
conference on the role of transport and transit corridors 
in  ensuring  international  cooperation,  stability  and 
sustainable development.
With regard to the achievement of the sustainable 
development goals, we believe that the greatest attention 
should be focused on promoting the economic interests 
of States, while maintaining an appropriate ecological 
balance and preventing harm to the environment. That, 
in turn, implies the use of cutting-edge environmental 
technologies  and 
innovative 
solutions  for  the  preservation  of  nature.  Preserving 
the significant environmental component of the global 
economic space has therefore become an integral part  
of its effectiveness.
the  development  of 
We  highly  value  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
Secretary-General,  as  well  as  the  successive  actions 
of  the  international  community  at  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conferences  in  Copenhagen  and 
Cancun and during the seventeenth Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  held  in  Durban,  which  have 
gradually  laid  the  foundations  for  the  development 
of  comprehensive  decisions  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development.
We look forward to the continuation of a constructive 
international  dialogue  on  that  topic  during  the  sixty-
eighth session of the Assembly. We are convinced that 
it  is  necessary  to  combine  our  efforts  in  that  area  at 
the  international,  regional  and  national  levels,  and  to 
effectively coordinate the efforts of States with those of 
the United Nations.
Taking  into  account  the  numerous  aspects  of  the 
climate change issue, Turkmenistan wishes to state at the 
current session of the General Assembly that it stands 
ready to make its contribution to the strengthening of the 
Furthermore, our country would like to launch an 
initiative  aimed  at  the  establishment  of  a  specialized 
entity,  a  subregional  centre  on  technologies  relating 
to climate change in Central Asia and the Caspian Sea 
basin.  We  believe  that  such  an  entity  would  help  the 
countries  of  our  regions  to  substantially  strengthen 
their interaction in the sphere of environmental security 
and  would  contribute  to  the  effective  coordination  of 
interregional efforts in that field.
The  challenges  confronting 
the  community 
of  nations  in  the  area  of  security  and  sustainable 
development  cannot  be  resolved  unless  we  find  a 
solution to the humanitarian issues at the international 
level. In particular, we are referring to the serious global 
problem  of  the  fate  of  refugees  and  stateless  persons. 
As a permanent member of the Executive Committee of 
the High Commissioner’s Programme of the Office of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
Turkmenistan has accumulated valuable experience in 
resolving the issues facing people who were forced to 
leave their home countries. Together with the Office of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
we propose that all interested parties become familiar 
with  Turkmenistan’s  practical  work 
in  granting 
citizenship to refugees and stateless persons.
In  that  connection,  it  would  be  advisable  to  work 
jointly  with  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies  to 
develop  an  appropriate  social  programme.  Moreover, 
taking  into  account  the  outcomes  of  the  International 
Ministerial Conference of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation  on  Refugees  in  the  Muslim  World,  held 
in Ashgabat in May 2012, we consider it necessary to 
develop long-term solutions to such issues, on the basis 
of  generally  recognized  norms  of  international  law. 
With  a  view  to  discussing  those  issues,  we  are  ready 
to  host  in  Turkmenistan  in  2014  a  high-level  event  in 
cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees.
Today,  as  Member  States  actively  discuss  the 
role  and  place  of  the  United  Nations  in  international 
14/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
relations, Turkmenistan declares that constructive and 
multilateral  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  is 
the  top  priority  of  its  foreign  policy  strategy.  In  that 
connection,  we  believe  that  it  is  precisely  the  United 
Nations  that  is  the  main  and  universal  international 
Organization,  which  adopts  decisions  concerning 
the  most  important  issues  of  global  development  and 
comprehensive peace and security. Since its inception, 
the  United  Nations  has  demonstrated  its  role  as  the 
foundation of the entire system of international stability, 
through  mechanisms  to  ensure  justice  and  to  resolve 
the most complex international problems.
Similarly, we share the opinion of the Organization 
today that the issue of providing it with fresh impetus 
is increasingly relevant, in view of the rapidly changing 
realities of the modern world. Therefore, Turkmenistan 
supports  a  strengthened  and  expanded  role  for  the 
United Nations at the global level.
firmly  convinced 
international 
law  and  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations — based on peace, equal rights and respect for 
nations,  their  rights  and  sovereignty  —  must  remain 
the  foundation  of  the  world  order  in  the  twenty-first 
century.
We  are 
that 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Yousef  Bin  Al-Alawi  Bin  Abdulla,  Minister  of 
State for Foreign Affairs of the Sultanate of Oman.
Mr.  Abdulla  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  gives 
me great pleasure, at the outset, to extend my warmest 
congratulations  to  the  President  and  his  friendly 
country,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session. We wish him every success in his endeavour 
and assure him that the Sultanate of Oman stands ready 
to cooperate with him and all delegations and Member 
States to achieve the desired objectives.
We would like to take this opportunity to express 
our thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić,  of  the  friendly  Republic  of  Serbia,  for  the 
outstanding  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  work 
of the previous session, as well as to thank Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for all his efforts to enhance the 
role  of  the  Organization  and  develop  its  operational 
mechanisms to respond to current challenges and recent 
developments and ensure optimal future preparedness.
The  numerous  achievements  and  successes  of 
the  United  Nations  since  its  establishment,  in  1945, 
technologies,  have  given  rise 
have  contributed  positively  to  increased  security  and 
stability in the world. However, the rapid developments 
witnessed  today,  including  steady  population  growth, 
rising global demand for energy and natural resources 
and  tremendous  advances  in  communications  and 
new 
to  numerous 
difficulties.  Joint  efforts  and  greater  cooperation 
among Governments are required to address them and 
find appropriate solutions. Such action requires that the 
Organization and its various organs be empowered to 
strengthen their capacity to respond to global demands 
and  developments,  with  a  sharp  focus  on  vital  and 
urgent issues.
Modernization, development and change constitute 
the norms of life. However, they must go hand in hand 
with increased security and stability, which should be 
based on cooperation among all nations and should be 
aimed at achieving sustainable development goals.
The  recent  events  in  various  countries  in  the 
Middle  East  resulted  from  genuine  reactions  to  the 
socioeconomic  hardships  faced  by  the  peoples  of  the 
region  and  to  diminished  institutional  capacities  to 
respond fully to their needs and demands. Despite the 
loss  of  lives  and  property  in  those  countries,  current 
efforts are aimed at stability and restoring the economy, 
and as such deserve our support.
My  country  welcomes  the  consensus  achieved  in 
the Security Council on the issue of chemical weapons 
in  Syria  and  the  unanimous  adoption  of  resolution 
2118 (2013). The “Geneva II” conference is of critical 
importance  in  facilitating  negotiations  between  the 
Syrian  Government  and  the  opposition  forces.  We 
believe  that  the  goal  should  be  a  ceasefire  and  the 
formation of a transitional authority with the necessary 
power to overcome the enormous difficulties resulting 
from  a  war  that  has  been  ongoing  for  approximately 
three years.
The 
international  community  should  prepare 
to  provide  support  and  humanitarian  assistance  to 
displaced  Syrians  and  to  all  those  affected  by  that 
abhorrent  war.  My  country  confirms  its  continued 
assistance to aid the displaced Syrians and expresses its 
readiness  to  contribute  to  international  humanitarian 
aid inside Syrian territory.
We  welcome  the  positive  developments  taking 
place  in  Somalia  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  President 
Hassan Sheikh Mohamud to rebuild the Somali State. 
It is our hope that our brothers in the Federal Republic 
13-48917
15/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
of  Somalia  will  be  able  to  implement  the  political 
and  economic  reform  programme  that  has  gained  the 
support of the international community.
Among the important international issues that have 
yet  to  be  resolved  is  the  Palestinian  question,  which 
is  considered  the  cornerstone  of  any  possible  peace 
in  the  Middle  East.  Despite  the  efforts  made  and  the 
agreements  concluded 
through  direct  negotiations 
between  successive  Israeli  Governments  and 
the 
Palestine Liberation Organization, no settlement has yet 
been reached. In that regard, my country supports the 
efforts of President Barack Obama and his Secretary of 
State, Mr. John Kerry, as they represent an opportunity 
for  all  the  peoples  of  the  region  to  establish  peace. 
That  would  lead  to  economic  and  social  development 
and  revive  the  hope  for  peaceful  coexistence  among 
the peoples of the region — all of which would ensure 
a  positive  contribution  by  the  Middle  East  to  global 
civilization.
My  country  continues  to  support  the  initiatives 
aimed  at  transforming  the  Middle  East  into  a  zone 
free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, as it is fully aware of the effects of those 
weapons on the security and stability of States, regions 
and the entire world.
With  our  emphasis  on  the  right  of  States  to 
benefit  from  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  it  is 
worth mentioning that the current dispute will not be 
resolved through coercive policies and practices, such 
as sanctions and other tough measures. Because those 
measures are limited, their effectiveness is weakened. 
Rather, creative diplomacy can help all States to benefit 
from nuclear power for peaceful purposes.
On the other hand, we hope that the international 
community,  particularly  the  depositary  countries  of 
the NPT, will be able to persuade other Middle Eastern 
States  to  become  parties  to  the  Treaty  and  to  subject 
their  nuclear  facilities  to  the  comprehensive  system 
of  safeguards  that  exists  under  the  supervision  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  That  would 
contribute  to  achieving  the  universality  of  the  Treaty 
and would make the Middle East a zone free of nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. That 
goal  deserves  the  support  of  all  countries,  especially 
the major Powers.
We express our regret at the non-convening of the 
international conference on the Middle East mandated 
by  the  decision  of  the  2010  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
Review  Conference,  owing  to  the  fact  that  some 
parties  did  not  support  its  convening.  That  reflects  a 
lack of understanding of the conditions, objectives and 
aspirations of the peoples of the Middle East region.
In  the  light  of  our  commitment  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  we  would  like  to 
announce that we have attained the Goals and all their 
indicators. In fact, we recently announced that we had 
been 100 per cent successful in achieving Goals 4 and 
5.
With regard to protection of the environment and 
natural conservation, since the dawn of the renaissance 
led  by  His  Majesty  Sultan  Qaboos  bin  Said,  my 
country, in line with the national strategy to protect the 
environment, has consistently integrated environmental 
issues into its plans and development goals, with a view 
to achieving a balance between the aims of sustainable 
development and the preservation of the environment.
My  country  has  also  sought  to  share  its  interests 
in  the  environment  and  natural  conservation  with 
the  international  community.  We  have  participated 
in  many  regional  and  international  conferences  on 
the  environment,  including  the  eighteenth  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  held 
in  Qatar  in  December  2012.  We  look  forward  to 
participating  in  the  nineteenth  session,  to  be  held  in 
Warsaw in November.
The  right  to  science  and  knowledge  should  be 
enjoyed  by  all  humankind,  and  the  great  evolution 
in  the  use  and  application  of  modern  technology  has 
become  an  essential  tool  in  our  daily  lives,  thanks  to 
scientific and intellectual creativity. Consequently, my 
country has sought to keep up with advances to meet 
our  current  needs.  To  that  end,  we  have  established 
many  centres  and  councils  that  encourage  research 
and  development,  including  the  Scientific  Research 
Council, the Industrial Innovation Centre, the National 
Centre for Enterprises and Commercial Activities, and 
the  Oasis  of  Knowledge.  We  also  have  a  Middle  East 
Desalination Research Centre.
My  country  continues 
the  main 
guidelines  for  a  national  strategy  of  research  and 
development  and  scientific  knowledge.  We  are  also 
trying to familiarize ourselves with modern technology 
and to encourage Omani youth to take part in different 
science  —  and  technology-based  professions.  In  that 
context,  we  welcome  future  constructive  cooperation, 
to  develop 
16/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
investment  and  partnerships  with  all  other  centres, 
universities,  institutions  and  specialized  industries 
in  both  the  public  and  the  private  sectors  and  at  the 
national, regional and international levels. We also want 
to take advantage of Oman’s geographical position as a 
main gateway and bridge to knowledge and creativity 
in regional and international markets.
In conclusion, we wish the President every success 
at  this  session,  and  we  hope  that  it  concludes  with  a 
realistic and renewed vision — an inspired vision and 
one that also imparts new momentum for our times, a 
vision that reflects the aspirations of every generation 
and  every  people  and  makes  every  effort  to  achieve 
them.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Gunnar  Bragi  Sveinsson,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Iceland.
Mr.  Sveinsson  (Iceland):  Once  again,  we  have 
witnessed outrageous acts of terrorism against innocent 
people,  most  recently  in  Kenya,  Iraq  and  Pakistan. 
Our thoughts go out to the victims and their families. 
It  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  all  Governments 
to  protect  their  citizens.  A  few  weeks  ago,  the  world 
witnessed  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria.  It 
is  hard  to  find  words  strong  enough  to  express  our 
condemnation. International law has been violated, war 
crimes committed and globally shared values have been 
shattered. Those responsible must be held accountable 
and should answer to the International Criminal Court.
The  devastation  inflicted  on  the  Syrian  people 
must end. A country is in ruins. Innocent lives are lost 
every  day,  more  than  6  million  people  are  displaced 
and  stability  in  the  region  is  threatened.  The  Syrian 
Government  has  not  lived  up  to  its  responsibility 
towards 
its  own  citizens.  It  has  retaliated  with 
unabated violence instead of choosing a path of reform, 
reconciliation and improved rights for its people. The 
crisis calls for firm action to be taken by the international 
community.  Syria  must  comply  with  its  international 
obligations, and all parties to the conflict must respect 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  We  welcome  the 
adoption of Security Council resolution 2118 (2013) and 
call on the Council to ensure that Syria fully meets its 
commitments.  The  Geneva  communiqué  (S/2012/522, 
annex)  must  also  be  honoured  and  a  “Geneva  II” 
conference convened urgently. The tragedy in Syria has 
once again underscored the fundamental importance of 
international law and order.
Some  of  the  greatest  achievements  of  the  United 
Nations are in the field of international law. Within these 
walls, the history of international relations continues to 
be written and brave new steps to be taken. The latest 
accomplishment  is  the  adoption  of  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty. Iceland is proud to have been the first State to 
ratify this landmark treaty. We call on all States — in 
particular arms exporters — to do so as well, so that it 
enters into force without delay.
In the year 2000, world leaders gathered in this city 
and made a historic decision by adopting the Millennium 
Declaration. Since then, the Millennium Development 
Goals  have  served  us  well.  For  almost  15  years,  they 
have influenced and guided the development priorities 
of  nations  and  organizations.  They  have  increased 
awareness of heartbreaking poverty and inspired new 
policymaking.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
are indeed central to Iceland’s development policy, and 
my  Government  is  firmly  committed  to  shouldering 
our responsibility in a globalized world. As new goals 
are  defined,  the  focus  should  remain  on  eliminating 
poverty,  achieving  gender  equality,  improving  health 
and providing education for girls and boys.
The  pressure  on  our  ecosystem  calls  for  urgent 
action  to  combat  pollution  and  land  degradation,  as 
well  as  a  balanced  consideration  of  conservation  and 
the utilization of natural resources. It is a challenge to 
ensure food security when land and water resources are 
threatened. Our duty is to share experiences and know-
how to restore land and improve land management — to 
change deserts into blooming fields.
Furthermore, climate change and disasters such as 
the one in Fukushima have taught us that a real energy 
transformation  is  needed.  Safe,  clean  and  renewable 
energy is the way of the future. Iceland has undergone 
a  true  energy  revolution.  Today,  almost  all  of  our 
electricity  and  heating  needs  are  met  with  renewable 
energy. That success story is a source of a productive 
partnership  between  Iceland  and  the  United  Nations, 
and now also the World Bank.
Our  world  is  wealthy.  That  wealth  is  not  only 
preserved in the minerals of the Earth, the power of the 
rivers and the rich living marine resources. Our greatest 
wealth is people — the knowledge, the experiences, the 
constant  journey  of  the  human  mind  to  explore  and 
invent new solutions.
Iceland makes use of those assets in its development 
cooperation.  We  are  proud  to  offer  the  world  our 
13-48917
17/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
expertise  where  it  can  make  a  real  difference  —  for 
the  development  of  geothermal  energy,  sustainable 
fisheries  management,  the  restoration  of  fertile  land 
and the promotion of gender equality. More than 2,500 
experts from all parts of the world have benefited from 
the  activities  of  the  four  United  Nations  university 
training programmes in Iceland since the first one was 
established  35  years  ago.  Iceland  will  focus  on  those 
same  four  topics  in  the  post-2015  process.  Let  me 
emphasize that the process must be conducted in a true 
democratic spirit. It must be inclusive and allow for all 
Member States to participate.
As  I  glance  around  the  Assembly  Hall,  I  am 
inspired by the history and success of the Organization, 
which  represents  the  immense  diversity  and  talent  of 
humankind,  and  inspired  by  the  potential  for  future 
positive  action  that  the  rich  fabric  of  representatives 
from all Member States represents. But success should 
not blind our vision or cloud our judgement. The flaws 
of the Security Council have been sadly exposed in the 
case of Syria. Furthermore, the lack of organizational 
reform undermines the credibility of the United Nations.
Much  work  remains  undone  in  many  areas.  As 
long  as  people  are  mistreated  for  their  views,  race 
or  religion,  or  even  cast  as  outlaws  for  their  sexual 
orientation or gender identity, human rights obligations 
are not honoured. We are alarmed that recent legislation 
in  some  countries 
the  fundamental 
principles  of  equality  and  the  freedom  of  expression. 
The  responsibility  to  change  that  and  to  ensure  the 
protection and promotion of human rights rests with us 
politicians.  By  speaking  from  this  rostrum,  each  and 
every one of us pledges to uphold those common values 
of the United Nations.
is  violating 
The  promotion  of  gender  equality  and 
the 
empowerment  of  women  is  another  urgent  task.  In 
2015,  we  will  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  Fourth  World  Conference  on  Women,  held  in 
Beijing. We call on all Member States to renew efforts 
to implement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for 
Action. Iceland has been advocating for celebrating the 
anniversary  through  a  12-month  campaign,  focusing 
on  each  of  the  12  themes  of  Beijing.  We  note  that 
UN Women is planning its strategy along those lines.
A prominent element in the Beijing Declaration is 
the importance of the active engagement of women for 
democratic development. The women of the Arab world 
have  given  that  objective  a  powerful  new  meaning  in 
the  past  three  years.  Women  assumed  their  rightful 
place  and  have  called  on  their  leaders  to  show  real 
leadership. They call for respect for human rights and 
the equal treatment of women and men. They call for 
the  freedom  to  express  their  views  and  to  determine 
their own future through democratic processes.
The President took the Chair.
It is regrettable that developments in the region have 
been overshadowed by political discord and continued 
violence. We deplore the loss of lives and condemn all 
violence. We also call on the Governments in the region 
to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to  democracy  with 
concrete actions.
The  developments  in  the  Middle  East  cannot  be 
separated  from  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  As 
United  States  President  Obama  said,  the  Palestinian 
people  have  a  right  to  live  with  security  and  dignity 
in their own sovereign State. Israel’s security depends 
upon the realization of a Palestinian State, and stability 
will  be  served  only  through  a  two-State  solution  and 
a  secure  Israel.  We  welcome  the  renewed  peace  talks 
between  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  State  of  Palestine 
and  applaud  United  States  Secretary  Kerry  for  his 
commitment in that regard. We must respect the right 
of the Palestinian people to self-determination as well 
as  Israel’s  right  to  exist  in  peace  with  its  neighbours. 
But time is running out.
The  continuing  settlement  activities,  in  violation 
of  international  law,  threaten  to  make  the  two-State 
solution  impossible.  Therefore,  the  Government  of 
Israel  must  end  all  settlements  in  the  West  Bank, 
including East Jerusalem. We denounce the oppressive 
policies  of  Hamas  and  condemn  the  indiscriminate 
rocket fire from Gaza. We also call upon Israel to end 
the blockade of the territory.
Respect  for  international  law  is  fundamental 
for  relations  between  States.  If  differences  arise,  we 
should always seek agreements through consultations, 
negotiations  or  other  means  for  peaceful  resolution. 
The  principle  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  is  among  the 
founding principles of the United Nations, is vital to us 
all — big nations and small.
One international agreement that Iceland holds in 
high  regard  is  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea. It was a great achievement when that 
important  Convention  was  adopted  30  years  ago,  and 
it  has  proved  its  relevance  by  the  test  of  time.  The 
18/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
Law  of  the  Sea  Convention  demonstrates  how  the 
international  order  can  best  work  and  prescribes  how 
differences should be settled through peaceful means. 
The  Convention  provides  a  basis  for  sound  resource 
management.  However,  meeting 
is 
difficult for many States. The international community 
should do much more to support developing countries 
to better conserve and utilize their resources and reform 
their  management  policies.  As  a  steadfast  advocate 
of  the  Convention,  Iceland  is  firmly  committed  to  its 
provisions.  We  protest  in  the  strongest  terms  when 
stakeholders  resort  to  threats  of  coercive  measures 
when differences arise.
that  objective 
Icelanders know better than anyone that the health 
of  the  ocean  and  its  resources  must  be  preserved.  It 
is  fundamental  for  our  existence  and  livelihood.  The 
conservation, sound management and sustainable use of 
natural resources are principles that we follow strictly 
in  our  policies.  We  are  sincere  and  serious  in  living 
up  to  the  responsibility  that  comes  with  safeguarding 
the riches of the Earth. For the same reason, the eight 
Arctic  States  have  developed  productive  regional 
cooperation. As the world witnesses the rapid changes 
in the Arctic, we who live in that corner of the world 
know  how  urgent  it  is  to  act  and  plan  for  the  future. 
The delicate environment must be protected, economic 
opportunities  developed  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
who live in the Arctic respected.
As  caretakers  of  the  Arctic,  we  take  our  global 
duty  very  seriously.  It  was  therefore  a  great  pleasure 
and an honour for me to host the Secretary-General in 
Iceland last summer. During his visit, I demonstrated to 
him how the global impact of climate change melts the 
glaciers in the north. Following our trip to the central 
highlands, the Secretary-General observed that we had 
not only seen the ice disappear, we had also heard the 
most powerful sound of ice melting away.
During  his  stay,  the  Secretary-General  gave  us 
Icelanders  an  insight  into  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations —  how,  every  single  day,  the  United  Nations 
is  making  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  countless 
people  around  the  world,  helping  refugees,  providing 
humanitarian  assistance  and  saving 
lives  of 
children. The United Nations is a force for good in the 
world. Together we can make a real difference; united 
we  protect  the  environment,  preserve  peace  and  save 
lives. The more united we are, the better the world will 
become.
the 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
Mr. Erlington (Belize): I am once again privileged 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  my 
country, Belize.
It  is  with  great  delight  that  I  congratulate  you, 
Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  You  are  a 
testament  to  all  the  peoples  of  the  Caribbean  and  the 
world  of  the  height  to  which  each  of  us  can  aspire 
when  industry  and  character  are  fused  into  one.  Rest 
assured,  Mr.  President,  of  the  unqualified  support  of 
Belize throughout your term in office. I also take this 
opportunity to thank your predecessor for his service as 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session.
It is in the quest for the attainment of the two ideals 
of peaceful conflict resolution and the enhancement of 
the lives of all peoples that leaders of Member States 
make this annual pilgrimage in September to address 
the  General  Assembly.  Belize  commends  the  United 
Nations and its visionary leadership over the years for 
its unflinching efforts in discharging the core functions 
of the Organization.
The promulgation of the Millennium Development 
Goals, in 2000, resulted in all countries working together, 
for  the  first  time  in  human  history,  to  address  and 
rectify the gaps in their development agenda to reduce 
poverty. It was a signal event and a major breakthrough 
for  the  United  Nations  development  agenda.  It  gave 
hope for the provision of huge amounts of desperately 
and  genuinely  needed  aid,  the  transfer  of  technology 
and other development assistance from affluent nations, 
financial  institutions  and  philanthropists  to  nations 
mired in poverty. That was undoubtedly good news.  It 
was  reminiscent  of  the  Marshall  Plan,  which  rescued 
Germany and Japan from abject ruin after the Second 
World War and catapulted them to heights of affluence 
they had never experienced before.
By  the  end  of  the  1990s,  most  countries  were  in 
dire  straits.  According  to  former  Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan,  more  than  60  per  cent  of  the  world 
subsisted  on  $2  or  less  per  day,  while  more  than 
1  billion  people  were  living  on  less  than  $1  per  day. 
Illiteracy was nearly at 1 billion people. Eight hundred 
million people were chronically hungry — one in seven 
people on Earth — including 200 million children. And 
1.3  billion  people  lacked  even  the  most  basic  health-
13-48917
19/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
care, sanitation and education services. Today, 13 years 
later, as the Millennium Development Goals are being 
implemented, the scorecard reveals that, while a small 
minority  of  countries  are  showing  commendable 
success  in  attaining  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  the  vast  majority  of  nations  are  still  mired  in 
poverty, with scant or no signs of development.
We  note  with  disappointment  that  rich  countries 
have not even been able to bring themselves to honour 
their  commitment  to  contribute  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
gross domestic product as official domestic assistance 
to  poor  countries.  The  resources  being  provided  by 
international  and  other  financial 
institutions  and 
by  private  donors  fall  far  short  of  what  is  needed  by 
poor  countries  to  attain  those  laudable,  and  indeed 
basic,  Goals.  It  is  evident  that,  for  some  inexplicable 
reason,  developed  countries  have  abandoned  Goal 
8 — developing a global partnership for development. In 
the absence of the cooperation of developed countries, 
the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals 
by poor countries will remain an illusion.
the 
Poor  countries  possess  neither 
requisite 
leadership  cadres,  the  financial,  human  and  technical 
resources,  the  infrastructure,  the  necessary  levels  of 
investment and trade nor the institutions to bring about 
levels  of  development  that  are  capable  of  generating 
the  wealth  needed 
the  expenses 
associated  with  the  attainment  and,  most  important, 
the sustainment of the Millennium Development Goals. 
Perhaps  even  worse,  far  too  many  countries  have  no 
realistic  prospects  for  achieving  such  capacity  within 
the  foreseeable  future.    Despite  that,  Belize  remains 
committed to the attainment of the Goals, which we are 
pursuing assiduously.
to  underwrite 
Given  our  experience  with 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals, it is, in our view, eminently fitting 
that you, Mr. President, should have kept the spotlight on 
the post-2015 development agenda for the sixty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly.  In that connection, 
the 
theme  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting the stage” is very apt indeed. The Millennium 
Development Goals must remain a work in progress. The 
post-2015 development agenda must be informed by our 
experiences with the Millennium Development Goals. 
In that regard, a careful analysis must be undertaken to 
ascertain why our rich development partners have failed 
to live up to their obligations under the partnership to 
provide the promised development aid and expertise to 
poor development partners. And new mechanisms must 
be  devised  to  ensure  that  the  post-2015  development 
agenda does not suffer a similar fate.
As we embark upon setting the stage for the post-
2015  development  agenda,  Belize  has  recognized  and 
identified  four  underpinning  points:  that  the  post-
2015  agenda  must  be  global;  that  it  should  integrate 
the  outcomes  of  major  summits  into  a  cohesive 
action-oriented  agenda 
implemented, 
building  upon  successes  and 
lessons 
learned; that the necessary resources must be sourced 
and committed to underwrite the new partnership for 
development;  and  that  it  must  be  guided  by  our  core 
values of conflict prevention and poverty eradication.
that  can  be 
improving 
Belize  endorses  the  intergovernmental  processes 
for  the  elaboration  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. Our domestic priorities, which complement the 
global agenda, are contained in the document Horizon 
2030,  which  articulates  our  development  framework. 
Sector-specific  documents  emanating  from  Horizon 
2030 inform our national development agenda in areas 
such as security, energy, gender, education and health.
Topping  the  list  of  our  domestic  priorities  at  this 
time is the resolution of the Guatemalan claim, which 
poses  an  existential  threat  to  our  nation  and  requires 
urgent  resolution  if  the  peoples  of  our  two  countries 
and  our  region  are  to  continue  to  enjoy  the  peaceful 
coexistence that has characterized our relationship thus 
far.  When  I  addressed  the  Assembly  last  September 
(see  A/67/PV.20),  I  was  pleased  to  report  that  our 
two States had agreed to submit to the citizens of our 
respective countries, in a simultaneous referendum to 
be  held  on  6  October  2013,  six  days  from  today,  the 
question  of  whether  it  was  the  will  of  our  respective 
constituencies that the Guatemalan claim be submitted 
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  a  final 
resolution. Regretfully, however, last April, Guatemala 
gave official notice to both Belize and the Organization 
of  American  States  that  the  Guatemalan  Government 
had  decided  not  to  proceed  with  the  referendum  and 
was  proposing  that  it  be  postponed  sine  die.  Not 
unexpectedly,  that  decision  was  not  well  received  in 
Belize.
The  Guatemalan  claim  is  a  constant  source  of 
anxiety for our citizens as well as for investors in our 
country. Furthermore, both our territorial and maritime 
border regions have been suffering from depredations 
and environmental degradation as a consequence of the 
wanton and sustained illegal activities of Guatemalan 
20/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
campesinos, fishermen and criminal elements engaged 
in  narco-trafficking,  human  trafficking,  smuggling, 
illegal panning for gold, the extraction of xaté and other 
exotic plants and animals, the illegal felling of timber 
and  the  pillaging  of  our  ancient  Mayan  ruins.  The 
felling  of  timber  in  our  rainforests  is  contributing  to 
the denuding of our mountains, which results in violent 
flooding in the rainy season and the transfer of topsoil, 
sand and silt into the sea. Those soils are then ultimately 
deposited  on  our  pristine  barrier  reef,  choking  and 
destroying  its  fragile  ecosystems  and  compromising 
the health of the entire reef and the marine ecological 
system that thrives there.
the 
increasing 
Additionally, 
trespassing  by 
Guatemalans  into  our  country  has  given  rise  to  more 
frequent  violent  encounters  between  Guatemalans 
and  members  of  the  Belize  Defence  Force,  resulting 
in  fatalities  in  some  instances.  Those  incidents  put  a 
heavy strain on the relations between our country and 
Guatemala and the peace of our region as a whole.
While  Belize  appreciates  that  the  activities  of 
the  Guatemalans  in  our  border  regions  are  the  direct 
result  of  poverty  and  failed  development  in  their 
own  country,  we  are  concerned  by  the  fact  that  such 
activities create the conditions for conflict. There are 
some 65 Guatemalan villages along the 141-mile-long 
Belize-Guatemala  border.  The  villagers  there  are 
largely 
indigent  and  unemployed.  Absent  higher 
employment  and  increased  security  patrols  on  both 
sides of the border, the incursions of Guatemalans will 
not, in our view, abate, but will only get worse.
Belize  is  resolved  to  do  everything  in  its  power 
to protect its citizens and territorial integrity, but our 
efforts alone will not be sufficient to put an end to the 
forays  of  Guatemalans  into  our  country.  Input  from 
the international community will be vital in assisting 
with the development of income-generating enterprises 
in  the  border  regions  to  ameliorate  the  poverty  there, 
which  is  what  compels  Guatemalans  to  trespass  in 
those regions.
Border  conflicts  are  dangerous  by  nature.  In  his 
memoir, Interventions: A Life in War and Peace, former 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan wrote:
in 
“[Conflicts]  suck 
their  neighbours,  send 
thousands of refugees spilling into other countries, 
create  havens  for  armed  groups  and  terrorists, 
and  they  cause  the  spread  of  criminal  networks 
and cross-border lawlessness, including piracy. In 
short, conflicts ... are inherent generators of global 
insecurity, the causes of which need to be addressed 
by wealthy and poor States alike.”
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the 
Organization  of  American  States  and  the  group  of 
friends who support the efforts of Belize and Guatemala 
to resolve the Guatemalan claim peaceably and, in the 
interim, to ensure that peace is maintained between our 
two countries.
Climate  change 
is  another  existential 
threat, 
looming  not  only  over  Belize  but  over  all  nations  of 
the  world,  large  and  small.  In  our  view,  it  is  urgent 
that  the  international  community  arrive  at  consensus 
as  to  the  imminence  and  magnitude  of  the  threat 
posed  to  humankind  by  climate  change,  as  well  as 
on  the  way  forward  in  dealing  successfully  with  that 
perilous  phenomenon.  That  is  another  threat  that  can 
be successfully dealt with only by the United Nations. 
Combating the threat will necessitate huge expenditures, 
the  deployment  of  cutting-edge  technology  and,  most 
likely, the cessation of the use of fossil fuels.
Developing countries such as Belize will need both 
technical and financial assistance from the international 
community  and  international  financial  institutions  to 
adapt  to  the  changes  being  brought  about  by  climate 
change and to mitigate the deleterious effects thereof.
established 
a  national 
Belize  has 
climate 
-change  committee  to  coordinate  our  Government’s 
interventions in all areas relating to climate change. We 
are also establishing a new climate-change policy and 
strategy that provides for the scaling up of mitigation 
and  adaptation  efforts  at  all  levels.  We  applaud  the 
Secretary-General for his decision to convene a high-
level meeting on climate change in the near future.
The security of its citizens is a paramount obligation 
of  every  Government.  The  Belize  Government  takes 
that  responsibility  seriously.  However,  the  threats  to 
the security of our citizens are so numerous in today’s 
globalized world that no single country has the capacity 
to tackle the issue on its own. Consequently, Belize works 
actively with our multilateral and bilateral partners in 
funding  the  necessary  resources,  technical  assistance 
and  training  in  our  quest  to  secure  our  citizenry.  We 
are  party  to  the  Central  American  Security  Strategy, 
which  is  dedicated  to  combating  the  activities  of 
national, regional and transnational criminals. We also 
collaborate closely with security and law enforcement 
13-48917
21/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
authorities in our region, including Canada, the United 
Kingdom, the United States and Mexico.
We are very pleased with the adoption, earlier this 
year,  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  we  will,  in  due 
course, ratify it. We have also enacted a whole raft of 
legislation to strengthen our crime-fighting capabilities.
The Belize Government invests as much as 26 per 
cent of its annual budgeted expenditure on the education 
sector. We believe that education is one of the quickest 
ways to lift our people out of poverty. Also, one half of 
our population is below the age of 25 and approximately 
37 per cent is below the age of 18. They will all need 
world-class  education  and  skills  training  if  they  are 
to  be  able  to  compete  successfully  in  global  markets. 
At  this  time,  Belize  is  not  able  to  provide  education 
and  training  at  that  level  locally  and  cooperates  with 
its  international  partners  for  the  provision,  in  large 
measure, of such education.
Non-communicable  diseases 
and  disabilities 
are  impacting  the  countries  in  the  Caribbean  region 
very  negatively.  In  our  own  country,  the  incidence  of 
cancers,  diabetes,  HIV/AIDS,  chronic  lung  diseases, 
hypertension  and  strokes 
reaching  epidemic 
proportions.  Empirical  data  reveal 
low- 
and  middle-income  countries,  non-communicable 
-isease-related  impairments  account  for  65.5  per  cent 
of persons living with disabilities. It is therefore urgent 
that the United Nations work to address the afflictions 
that  are  blighting  the  lives  of  untold  numbers  of  our 
citizens.
is 
that 
in 
At  the  most  recent  meeting  of  the  Heads  of 
Government  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  a  historic 
decision was taken that the Community should pursue 
all  the  necessary  steps  to  recover  reparations  for  the 
descendants  of  the  victims  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade from the nations that participated in and benefited 
from that trade. Belize urges the United Nations to lend 
its support to that initiative, which seeks to address, at 
least  in  part,  the  unspeakable  evil  perpetrated  by  the 
European nations that participated in the trade.
Earlier  this  year,  Belize  successfully  rescheduled 
its  debt  obligations  with  its  commercial  bondholders, 
an  exercise  that  enabled  us  to  avoid  the  spectre 
of  sovereign  default.  Despite 
that  restructuring, 
however, Belize’s capacity to finance its development 
programmes  is  still  challenged,  and  it  continues  to 
rely  on  cooperation  with  its  bilateral  and  multilateral 
partners  to  achieve  its  development  goals.  In  that 
regard,  Belize  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  to 
the United Nations and its related agencies, including 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the 
United Nations Population Fund, UNICEF, UNESCO, 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
and  the  Pan  American  Health  Organization,  which 
work  tirelessly  to  support  the  implementation  of  our 
national development objectives. We also wish to thank 
the many nations that are currently partnering with us 
in development.
Belize  would  like  to  enlist  the  support  of  the 
United Nations in helping to persuade the international 
financial organizations that per capita gross domestic 
product is not in itself an accurate measure of a nation’s 
wealth or stage of development, particularly in the case 
of heavily indebted middle-income countries like ours. 
Such  a  method  of  assessment  would  disqualify  those 
countries, including my own, from eligibility for badly 
needed  concessionary  financing,  and  that  eventuality 
could well lead to reversals of their hard-won gains.
The Government of Belize is committed to a rights-
based approach to the development of our country and 
people. To that end, we have embraced the international 
human rights regime and are making our best efforts to 
enable inclusive growth. In that regard, we are pleased 
to inform the Assembly that the Government of Belize 
has,  in  consultation  with  its  stakeholder  partners  at 
the  national  level,  submitted  the  report  for  its  second 
universal  periodic  review  for  consideration  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  at  its  seventeenth  session,  in 
October.
I would like to inform the Assembly that we, too, 
condemn  the  cowardly  terrorist  act  that  took  place 
recently in Kenya.
Earlier  I  referred  to  my  country’s  position  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  —  that  the  agenda 
must  be  inclusive  if  we  are  to  achieve  meaningful 
development. We need to ensure that all our countries 
are  allowed  to  participate  in  a  meaningful  manner, 
and that includes the people of the Republic of China 
on  Taiwan.  We  cannot  deny  the  significant  advances 
they  have  been  able  to  make  in  such  a  short  time,  or 
their  contributions  in  support  of  global  goals  and 
commitments,  especially  in  the  area  of  development 
cooperation.  Their  experience  can  teach  us  about 
advancing our own development.
22/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
Every year the Assembly votes to lift the economic 
embargo on Cuba. We continue to support that call.
Belize  also  continues  to  call  for  an  urgent  and 
peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  troubles  us.  As 
responsible  citizens  of  the  world,  we  condemn  the 
use of chemical weapons and welcome the framework 
agreement  —  led  by  Russia  and  the  United  States  of 
America and supported by the Security Council — that 
we  hope  will  lead  to  the  removal  of  all  chemical  and 
biological  weapons  from  Syria.  We  also  call  on  other 
nations to abide by the Convention on the Prohibition 
of  the  Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use 
of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction.
As we approach the end of an era and look towards 
the  post-2015  development  process,  our  Government, 
policymakers,  planners  and  all  levels  of  society  will 
be challenged to focus on what we want and what we 
can  achieve  together.  We  must  commit  to  a  process 
of  ensuring  that  we  adopt  goals  and  objectives  that 
reflect global priorities and are adapted to our national 
contexts. Our agenda must be reflective of the world’s 
most  pressing  problems,  which  include,  but  are  not 
limited  to,  environmental  sustainability,  inequality, 
growth with equity and social inclusion.
We  are  confident  that  under  your  guidance, 
Mr.  President,  that  process  will  be  an  inclusive, 
accessible and transparent one.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Saad-Eddine  El  Othmani,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr.  El  Othmani  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
would  first  like  to  congratulate  you  warmly,  Sir,  on 
your election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  and  to  renew  our  support 
for  and  highlight  the  efforts  that  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  has  made  at  every  level  to  enable  our 
Organization  to  fulfil  its  role  and  responsibilities  in 
dealing with the challenges of today’s world.
We commend your choice of theme for our debate, 
Sir,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda:  setting 
the  stage”,  which  is  very  relevant  and  enables  us  to 
exchange views. From this rostrum, we pay tribute to 
the Secretary-General’s tireless efforts to integrate the 
Millennium Development Goals into the Organization’s 
strategic objectives. We hope that are our deliberations 
will  help  to  strengthen  international  consensus  on 
pursuing the complete and integrated fulfilment of our 
commitments and on formulating a road map with clear 
directions and specific goals for the post-2015 period.
Morocco, while itself a stable country, is part of the 
Sahel-Sahara region, which is highly unstable — hence 
the  importance  for  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  of  the 
situation  in  the  brotherly  country  of  Mali  and  the 
dangerous challenges it has been dealing with recently. 
We congratulate our Malian and African brothers and 
the  international  community  on  the  success  of  the 
recent elections there and the progress Mali has made 
in  achieving  stability.  The  international  community 
should continue to support it at every level. The visit of 
His Majesty King Mohammed VI to Mali to participate 
in  the  investiture  ceremony  for  the  new  President  of 
Mali  afforded  an  excellent  opportunity  for  Morocco 
to  renew  its  wholehearted  commitment  to  supporting 
Mali’s  security,  unity,  stability  and  development.  In 
his speech, King Mohammed said that the solutions to 
other security crises demonstrated that the crisis in Mali 
required an approach that went beyond mere security. 
That is why we support a three-pronged approach. The 
first  dimension  would  be  educational  and  ideological 
and  would  aim  at  spreading  a  culture  of  moderation 
and  centrism  and  instituting  a  dialogue  between  the 
two peoples and their States, leading to the launching 
of  cooperation  in  Islamic  affairs  and  the  training  of 
500 mosque imams to be sent to Mali.
The 
second  dimension  would 
consist  of 
development,  with  emphasis  on  bringing  developing 
countries  together,  particularly  countries  stricken  by 
drought and poverty, among other problems and crises, 
and empowering their people, as well as strengthening 
their  capacity  to  achieve  progress  and  development. 
That is why we have launched development programmes 
in  coordination  with  Mali  and  other  countries  in  the 
region.
The  third  key  thrust  would  be  the  humanitarian 
dimension.  Security  crises  provoke  unspeakable 
suffering for individuals and countries. Mali has seen 
tens of thousands of refugees leave the country and go 
to neighbouring countries, which is why it is important 
that  there  be  a  coordinated  regional  approach.  In 
Bamako, the capital of Mali, we established a country 
hospital  to  relieve  the  suffering  of  the  people  in  that 
area.
With respect to the Great Lakes region, the Kingdom 
of Morocco welcomes the signing of the Peace, Security 
13-48917
23/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
and  Cooperation  Framework  Agreement,  which  will 
greatly facilitate the real settlement of the crisis in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has gone on 
for too long. We hope that all parties will respect the 
Framework Agreement and that they will honour their 
commitments and pledges and support the international 
community’s efforts to establish a peace process, while 
respecting  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Those challenges are part of various crises that we 
see  occurring  in  the  Sahel  and  Saharan  regions.  The 
Secretary-General  has  deployed  many  efforts  along 
those lines. We are pleased with the high-level dialogue 
on  the  Sahel  that  he  organized  on  the  margins  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  the  second  consecutive  year, 
as  well  as  the  visit  he  hopes  to  make  to  the  region, 
accompanied  by  a  representative  of  the  World  Bank. 
We  hope  that  the  United  Nations  integrated  strategy 
for  the  Sahel  will  be  finalized.  Once  again,  Morocco 
reiterates that it will participate in all efforts to protect 
the  countries  of  the  Sahel  and  the  Sahara  in  order  to 
strengthen  stability,  security  and  development  in  the 
region.
Morocco  reaffirms  once  more  the  need  to  set  up 
initiatives  for  the  Atlantic  coast  States,  given  their 
security, political, economic and social interrelationship 
and  the  challenges  that  obtain.  We  believe  that 
stability and security in the region go beyond regional 
frameworks.  We  are  therefore  talking  about  a  Sahel-
Moroccan space for the purpose of maintaining stability 
in the region.
We condemn the recent terrorist attacks in Kenya. 
We would ask the international community for greater 
efforts to bolster security and stability in that region.
The second issue that concerns us and the rest of 
the  international  community  is  Syria.  In  that  respect, 
we  commend  the  international  community  and  the 
Security  Council  for  adopting  resolution  2118  (2013), 
on  the  Syrian  chemical  weapons  programme,  and 
the  announcement  of  the  date  of  15  November  for 
the  holding  of  the  “Geneva  II”  Middle  East  peace 
conference  in  order  to  stop  the  violence  in  Syria  and 
reach a political solution through dialogue that would 
maintain  the  territorial  integrity  of  Syria  and  the 
stability of its neighbours. In that regard, I would like 
to thank the Secretary-General for his efforts. I would 
also like to thank the Secretary-General of the League 
of  Arab  States,  the  League  itself,  its  member  States 
and Joint Special Envoy Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi for the 
joint  efforts  they  have  made  during  this  period  with 
regard  to  the  shedding  of  Syrian  blood,  the  agreeing 
on a resolution and the reaching of a solution prior to 
Geneva II, with a view to putting an end to the crisis 
in Syria.
We  would 
like 
to  reaffirm  once  again 
the 
importance  of  the  humanitarian  aspect  of  the  crisis. 
There  are  2  million  refugees  and  tens  of  thousands 
of  displaced  persons,  and  thousands  have  been  killed 
or  wounded.  This  is  the  degree  of  suffering  that  the 
international community is called upon to reduce. The 
Kingdom of Morocco and its King have paid particular 
attention  to  the  humanitarian  dimension,  which  is 
why  we  established  a  rural  hospital  in  Jordan  a  year 
and a half ago to provide health services to our Syrian 
brothers.
It is well known that Morocco has been involved in 
the establishment of a Maghreb Union. Now is the time 
for coming together regionally, not for isolation. It is the 
time for cooperation and openness, not for unilateralism. 
Therefore,  we  are  reactivating  the  Maghreb  Union 
project  in  order  to  fulfil  the  hopes  of  the  peoples  of 
the five Maghreb countries and to help them to achieve 
stability,  prosperity  and  sustainable  development. 
His  Majesty  the  King  has  called  for  a  promising  and 
ambitious Maghreb Union, and the Secretary-General 
has made a similar appeal. The Maghreb Union would 
implement  peace  and  stability  by  taking  a  number 
of  initiatives,  including  a  joint  mediation  initiative 
undertaken  with  neighbourly  Spain,  pursuant  to  the 
appeal by the General Assembly in favour of mediation. 
The Kingdom of Morocco answered the call by launching 
the  initiative  and  establishing  partnership  agreements 
between  Moroccan  and  Spanish  mediation  centres  to 
provide  training  and  invite  the  participation  of  other 
countries in the region. The initiative was launched in a 
spirit of rapprochement, dialogue and cooperation and 
to  promote  mediation,  which  is  important  not  only  to 
stop  conflicts  when  they  have  broken  out  but  also  to 
prevent them from occurring in the first place.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco’s  decision  to  protect 
human rights is irreversible. It is part of a comprehensive 
strategy  and  relies  on  an  approach  that  favours  the 
participation  and  advancement  of  people  and  the 
protection  of  their  dignity  within  the  framework  of  a 
development-focused  democratic  model.  Morocco  has 
therefore launched a number of projects and workshops, 
as  well  as  major  reforms,  and  made  tremendous 
24/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
progress  in  broadening  the  sphere  of  individual  and 
collective  rights  and  freedoms,  of  preserving  human 
dignity and of strengthening the protection of the rights 
of its citizens, especially the rights of women, children 
and persons with special needs.
In  its  amended  2011  Constitution,  the  Kingdom 
of  Morocco  dedicated  a  chapter  to  respect  for  human 
rights as they are recognized internationally. Morocco 
has  always  desired  to  preserve  a  balance  between 
its 
international  and  national  commitments  and 
priorities. As a founding member of the Human Rights 
Council,  Morocco  has  participated  effectively  and 
constructively  in  the  formulation  and  implementation 
of  the  institutional  texts  of  the  Council,  in  particular 
the  universal  periodic  review.  When  it  was  decided 
to  take  another  look  at  the  rules  and  mechanisms  in 
2011,  Morocco  was  given  the  task  of  conducting  the 
negotiations on them. At the same time, the Kingdom 
of  Morocco  enjoyed  positive  cooperation  with  the 
various  institutions  and  mechanisms  and  interacted 
with their recommendations, in particular the universal 
period  review,  treaties  and  special  measures,  whose 
assessments Morocco continues to welcome, facilitate 
and  answer  with  its  observations.  Morocco  hopes  to 
gain  the  Assembly’s  support  for  its  candidacy  for  the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2014-2016,  in 
order to further contribute to strengthening the role of 
the Council and to ensure the effectiveness necessary 
for its operation.
to 
relating 
In  that  connection,  we  have  recently  launched 
an 
initiative 
immigration,  especially 
illegal  migration.  Morocco  wished  to  establish  other 
mechanisms  for  refugees  in  connection  with  how  we 
address the issue and rights of immigration, especially 
illegal migration, and asylum. A few days ago, a new 
statute  on  immigration  was  enacted  and  the  right 
to  asylum,  so  as  to  give  new  rights  and  documents 
to  political  refugees.  All  of  this  is  a  very  important 
development for our country.
I would like also to touch on the key issue of the 
territorial  integrity  of  Morocco  and  the  issue  of  the 
Moroccan Sahara. For several years now our authorities 
have  followed  the  diligent  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General and the Security Council to resolve the Sahara 
issue.  Morocco  complies  with  all  Security  Council 
resolutions and has acted in good faith with respect to 
those  resolutions  and  to  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General.  The  most  recent  resolutions  called  for  a 
new  round  of  negotiations  among  the  parties  so  as  to 
achieve a sustainable political solution accepted by all. 
Morocco therefore launched an initiative on autonomy, 
a  practical  and  moderate  solution  that  enjoyed  the 
support of many countries friends of Morocco as well 
as  of  several  regional  organizations.  Unfortunately, 
however, the other parties involved, committed to their 
30-year stance and proposals, did not allow progress to 
be made in the political process. I reiterate that Morocco 
is committed to working effectively and in good faith 
with the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy in 
all their efforts and with the Security Council in order 
to implement the successive resolutions adopted by the 
Security Council.
Finally,  on  behalf  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  I 
wish  to  say  that  with  the  approach  of  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  Organization,  we 
reaffirm our sincere commitment to its principles and 
to the active mobilization of our efforts so as to update, 
empower and strengthen it, given that it is the unique 
and optimal framework for meeting current and future 
challenges.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  Let  me  first  join  previous 
speakers 
in  expressing  my  delegation’s  deepest 
sympathies  and  condolences  to  the  families  of  the 
victims and to the people and the Government of Kenya 
on the terrorist attack at Westgate Mall in Nairobi.
It  is  almost  two  generations  now  since  Eritrea 
first  begun  to  lodge  petitions  for  justice  with  this 
body.  Sadly,  in  all  of  those  instances,  the  Assembly 
has  persisted  in  ignoring  Eritrea’s  pleas,  shuttering 
its  doors  as  a  “closed  monastery”.  Those  setbacks 
notwithstanding,  Eritrea  remains  firmly  convinced 
that the promotion of peoples’ rights and interests and 
mutual  respect  among  the  community  of  nations  will 
remain  precarious  without  an  international  body  that 
upholds the supremacy of international law and justice. 
As  such,  our  choice,  like  those  of  other  peoples,  has 
been  and  remains  the  funnelling  of  efforts  towards 
expediting the reform of the United Nations.
To focus exclusively on the harm done to the people 
and  State  of  Eritrea  may  convey  the  false  impression 
of  an  aberration  in  an  otherwise  effective  and  well-
functioning United Nations. As it is, the particularity 
of  our  case  only  amplifies  the  wider  backdrop  of  a 
United  Nations  debilitated  by  chronic  weaknesses 
13-48917
25/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
and  shortcomings.  In  any  event,  my  message  today 
will  focus  primarily  on  the  urgency  of  reforming  the 
United Nations and redressing the injustices committed 
against the people of Eritrea as well as other peoples of 
the world.
The  negative  experiences  during  the  first  50 
years  of  the  existence  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
paralysis  and  constraints  under  which  the  United 
Nations had to operate in the context of the realities of 
the Cold War in a bipolar world accentuated the need 
for structural reform of the United Nations at that time. 
In Eritrea’s case, our inalienable right to independence 
was  trampled  at  the  onset  of  the  Cold  War,  since  the 
country was perceived as a mere pawn in the overriding 
strategic  rivalry  of  both  super-Powers.  Our  liberation 
struggle was likewise suppressed by both super-Powers 
in an alternating fashion because of the same strategic 
considerations and shifting alliances.
Yesterday’s  history  is  too  fresh  in  our  minds  to 
induce in us any nostalgia for the Cold War. Our call 
for reform of the United Nations is thus not influenced 
by  some  innate  preference  for  the  return  of  the  old, 
bipolar configuration to replace the prevailing unipolar 
world order. The fact is that the United Nations should 
have undergone incremental reform and revitalization 
during  the  50  years  of  the  Cold  War.  The  end  of  the 
Cold War was certainly the most auspicious moment for 
undertaking that belated task.
Indeed, it is now clear in retrospect that had such 
reforms occurred then, the wars and destruction that have 
unfolded in the past 20 years could have been avoided. 
However, the major Powers that controlled the General 
Assembly  and  the  various  institutions  and  agencies 
of  the  United  Nations,  through  partial  hegemony,  felt 
after 1991 that they were better positioned to secure and 
consolidate their total domination of the United Nations. 
They  blocked  any  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
so that historic opportunity for international peace and 
justice to prevail was lost.
In the past 20 years, we have witnessed excessive 
control  over  global  resources  and  the  creation  of 
spheres of influence, which has triggered international 
instability;  the  use  of  force  and  coercion  as  primary 
instruments  for  controlling  global  resources  while 
preventing and denying others the opportunity to acquire 
comparable  military  capabilities  and  technology;  and 
the  deployment  of  international  financial  institutions, 
including 
the  International 
the  World  Bank  and 
Monetary Fund, in order to control the global economy, 
leading  to  an  intractable  global  financial  crisis  with 
lethal ramifications for the majority of the peoples of 
the  world.  We  have  also  witnessed  the  misuse  of  the 
mass  media  and  cultural  centres  in  order  to  create 
false  images  and  to  promote  decadent  value  systems, 
intimidate peoples and demonize any dissent; and the 
employment of various subterfuges in order to control, 
directly  or  indirectly,  all  international,  continental, 
regional, governmental and non-governmental bodies. 
Those manifestations of the current world order can be 
corroborated,  beyond  abstract  analysis,  by  numerous 
specific cases and evidence related to particular events, 
places and time. That is precisely why the twenty-first 
century  requires  a  revitalized  United  Nations  that 
transcends a bipolar or unipolar world order, and that 
is firmly rooted in the supremacy of, and respect for, 
international law and justice.
As  I  have  intimated,  Eritrea,  like  other  African 
States that were formed during the colonial scramble, 
should have attained its sovereign independence during 
the  process  of  decolonization  that  transpired  in  the 
aftermath  of  the  Second  World  War.  The  inalienable 
national  rights  of  the  Eritrean  people  were,  however, 
compromised  to  serve  the  strategic  interests  of  the 
United  States,  which  had  emerged  as  a  triumphant 
Power.  Eritrea  was  therefore  doomed  to  colonial  rule 
by proxy. The people of Eritrea had to endure colonial 
suppression  for  almost  40  years  under  successive 
regimes,  which  were  propped  up,  alternately,  by  the 
United States for the first 23 years and by the former 
Soviet Union for the subsequent 17 years. The Eritrean 
people had to wage their liberation struggle under those 
conditions, which exacted heavy sacrifices from them 
to achieve their independence in 1991. That historical 
truth, coupled with other similar phenomena, illustrates 
the perils of a world order that is driven by the rivalry 
of domineering super-Powers, and highlights the need 
and urgency for an effective United Nations.
The  Eritrean  people  were  neither  compensated 
for  the  transgressions  meted  out  to  them  nor  given 
respite in the subsequent years. As they embarked on 
the arduous task of rebuilding their war-torn country, 
they  again  became  pawns  in  the  broader  Horn  of 
Africa/Middle  East  chessboard  of  domination  and 
influence and have suffered unjust and distorted policies 
for the past 20 years. In that respect, border conflicts 
that  do  not  have  political  and  legal  justifications  and 
that  were  never  raised  prior  to  the  independence  of 
26/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
Eritrea in 1991 were subtly fomented to ensnare Eritrea 
in a spiral of crises.
Although the Boundary Commission had rendered 
its  final  and  binding  decision  in  2002,  the  spurious 
border  conflict  that  erupted  under  the  Badme  rubric 
continued  to  simmer  for  11  years  due  to  obstructive 
violations  by  the  United  States  Administration.  The 
Eritrean  people  were  also  subjected  to  a  sustained 
human trafficking campaign and illicit measures aimed 
at  undermining  economic  growth  and  development, 
as  well  as  diplomatic  and  propaganda  campaigns  of 
demonization.
Going  even 
further,  United  States  officials 
imposed  unlawful  sanctions  against  Eritrea  in  2009 
through  the  Security  Council.  Four  years  on,  they 
insist on maintaining the sanctions, despite the lack of 
any evidence or justification, by relying on the widely 
discredited reports of the Monitoring Group on Somalia 
and Eritrea.
Beyond Eritrea, the same approaches and policies 
have  exacerbated  crises  and  further  undermined 
stability, development and cooperation in Somalia and 
other parts of the Horn of Africa. Despite that massive 
hostility and in the face of tremendous odds, the people 
and  Government  of  Eritrea  have  remained  steadfast, 
prioritized  development  efforts  and  the  improvement 
of  citizens’  lives,  and  have  worked  persistently  to 
make their modest contribution to regional peace and 
stability,  including  by  fighting  terrorism  and  piracy. 
Their  achievements,  given  the  difficulties  they  faced, 
have been remarkable, even though they fall far short 
of their aspirations.
Looking forward, the people and the Government 
of Eritrea are prepared to link hands with regional and 
international  partners,  including  the  United  Nations, 
and  to  work  for  the  betterment  of  their  country  for 
peace, stability and regional integration in the Horn of 
Africa and a fairer and more just world.
The  transgressions  that  have  been  perpetrated 
against the people of Eritrea and other peoples in the 
past 20 years speak to the persistence of an unfair and 
unjust  global  order  and  the  absence  of  a  strong  and 
representative United Nations. And yet, the telltale signs 
of the advent of a new, promising era are discernible. In 
that context, I add the voice of the Eritrean people to 
other voices in the world to urge the General Assembly 
to keep the flicker of hope alive in its current session 
and to adopt timely resolutions aimed at a fundamental 
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  The  fact  is  that  the 
Assembly  has  legal,  moral  and  historical  obligations 
and responsibilities entrusted to it by the peoples of the 
world that it cannot shrug off.
In  conclusion,  I  urge  the  United  Nations  to  adopt 
practical  resolutions  that  are  commensurate  with  its 
legal,  political  and  moral  responsibilities  in  order  to, 
first, uphold the rule of law; secondly, bring to an end 
the  invasion  of  our  sovereign  territories;  thirdly,  lift 
the  unlawful  and  harmful  sanctions  against  Eritrea; 
fourthly,  terminate  interventions  that  jeopardize  the 
peace and stability of the peoples of the Horn of Africa; 
and, fifthly, deter all acts that breed crises, loss of life 
and destruction.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Samuel Santos López, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr. Santos López (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): 
On behalf of the people and Government of Nicaragua, 
Comrade  President  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra  and 
Comrade  Rosario  Murillo,  I  want  to  begin  by  paying 
tribute  to  the  Commander  of  the  revolution  of  our 
America and the Caribbean, leader of the free men and 
women of the world, Hugo Chávez Frías, who has left 
us a legacy of strength, hope and certainty of victory 
in defending the inalienable rights of humankind, such 
as sovereignty, justice, freedom, democracy, solidarity 
and peace.
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
reconciliation  and  national  unity  of  Nicaragua,  led 
by  Comrade  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  I  congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  We  are  pleased 
that a representative of a brother country and member of 
the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, 
Petrocaribe and the Community of Latin America and 
the Caribbean States will guide us in the activities of 
this important organ so that our efforts may contribute 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  must  be  implemented  by  the 
Organization.
The United Nations continues to require profound 
reform that cannot be delayed any longer. The position 
of some permanent members of the Security Council on 
the issue can no longer be an insurmountable obstacle. 
We continue to support the proposed reinvention of the 
United Nations proposed by our colleague Father Miguel 
13-48917
27/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
d’Escoto  Brockmann.  The  power  of  the  Organization 
must rest completely with the General Assembly.
of the human rights of its citizens and its deep ethical 
commitment to the common good.
The  economic  and  financial  situation  imposed  by 
global  capitalism  continues  to  rapidly  dismantle  the 
welfare  State  in  developed  countries  and  seriously 
affects  developing  countries.  Now  more  than  ever,  it 
becomes essential to establish a new global economic 
model that is sustainable, based on justice, solidarity, 
complementarity and committed to the defence of the 
Earth and the environment.
International  democracy  cannot  exist  without 
respect  for  international  law.  Nicaragua  continues 
to  demonstrate  with  reliable  facts  its  adherence  to 
international  law  and  its  respect  for  the  principle  of 
resolving our differences through dialogue, negotiation 
and  recourse  to  international  bodies  such  as  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  to  settle  territorial  and 
other types of disputes.
We  welcome  the  central  theme  selected  by  you, 
Mr. President, for the Assembly’s sixty-eighth session, 
namely,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda:  setting 
the stage”. It is important, therefore, that we agree to 
launch an intergovernmental process for that new phase.
In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  we  are 
deepening our political, economic, social and cultural 
integration  process,  all  the  while  respecting  our 
diversity and building unity. Our Community of Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  has  been  achieving  a 
shared vision of social development, education, health, 
the  environment,  energy  and  financing,  among  other 
sectors.  It  is  now  preparing  to  work  collectively  on 
cooperation, nuclear disarmament, fighting corruption, 
agriculture, science and technology.
In  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America  and  in  Petrocaribe,  Nicaragua  has  found  a 
model of integration to overcome poverty, hunger and 
inequality,  while  strengthening  the  Central  American 
Integration System , the Mesoamerican Integration and 
Development Project and its economic and commercial 
relations  with  the  international  community  and  its 
organizations.
In  this  difficult  context,  Nicaragua  continues 
to  make  progress.  We  have  opted  for  a  development 
model  that  produces  results.  Despite  the  difficulties 
and limitations, the Millennium Development Goals in 
Nicaragua are being realized in a tangible manner that 
demonstrates our Government’s respect and promotion 
The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United Nations has recognized our country’s remarkable 
progress to ensure the food security of our citizens and 
to reduce the prevalence of undernourishment.
Our Government guarantees the right to universal 
primary  education.  Major  programmes  are  under 
way  —  the  “battle  for  ninth  grade”,  the  intercultural 
bilingual education programme, the inclusive education 
programme  and  the  comprehensive  school  nutrition 
programme.
UN  Women  ranks  Nicaragua  among  the  leading 
countries  in  the  world  with  the  highest  percentage 
of  women  in  the  executive,  legislative  and  judicial 
branches.  Today  42  per  cent  of  the  deputies  in  the 
National Assembly are women. Women hold 54 per cent 
of positions in the executive branch, 60 per cent in the 
judicial branch and 50 per cent in municipal councils. 
We established a Ministry of Women to promote gender 
equality and to empower women, while our laws ensure 
that women enjoy human rights.
Nicaragua 
the 
received 
International  Training  Centre 
the  Americas  Award 
of 
for  Local 
Actors/Authorities  (CIFAL)  Atlanta  and  the  United 
Nations  Institute  for  Training  and  Research  for 
achieving its goals in reducing maternal mortality and 
in recognition of the national strategy called Maternal 
Homes.  In  2006  the  national  maternal  mortality  rate 
was 92.8 per 100,000 live births. In 2012 the rate was 
nearly  half  that,  reduced  to  50.9,  and  we  continue 
fighting to reduce it further.
We  continue  our  efforts  to  combat  HIV/AIDS. 
Preventive  measures  are  being  disseminated  and 
supportive care is provided to patients. In 2012 Nicaragua 
received  recognition  from  the  Pan  American  Health 
Organization  for  its  contribution  to  the  community 
vigilance  programme  against  malaria.  Campaigns  are 
being  developed  to  curb  dengue  fever,  leptospirosis 
and  influenza.  We  have  successfully  carried  out  the 
campaign “Live clean, live healthy, live a good life, live 
well”, which aims to clean and beautify communities, 
provide preventive health measures against epidemics 
and pandemics as well as to maintain a harmonious and 
respectful  relationship  with  one  another  and  with  the 
environment.
28/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
All  of  those  projects  are  made  possible  by  the 
enormous efforts our people, who have made a social, 
economic and political model of dialogue, alliances and 
consensus, recognized by all. Our people’s inexhaustible 
capacity  for  hope  and  essential  relationship  with  the 
Christian,  socialist  and  solidarity  model  that  we  have 
built  together,  in  which  all  sectors  of  the  country 
participate, has meant that our people continue to move 
ahead  while  promoting  peace,  serenity  and  the  full 
exercise of their rights.
Our  defence  of  peace  and  international  security 
remains  unwavering.  Similarly,  we  continue  to  fight 
against drug trafficking and the various manifestations 
of  transnational  organized  crime.  Our  retaining-wall 
strategy produces positive results. We are committed at 
the regional level to implementing the Central American 
Security  Strategy.  It  is  urgent  that  the  international 
community  give  more  support  through  additional 
financial  resources  to  the  efforts  and  investment  the 
Central  American  countries  are  making  against  those 
scourges.  Despite  its  limitations,  Nicaragua  invests 
considerable  resources  from  its  budget  to  ensure  an 
optimal  environment  for  public  safety.  Its  successes 
are  internationally  recognized,  and  Nicaragua  is  seen 
as one of the safest countries in Latin America and the 
Caribbean.
We are committed to the struggles of other peoples 
for their full independence and sovereignty. Therefore, 
we demand once again the immediate and unconditional 
termination  of  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba by the United States of 
America and the immediate and unconditional release 
of the Cuban patriots imprisoned in that country. The 
United States must also stop its arbitrary and capricious 
inclusion of that brother country in its unilateral list of 
State sponsors of terrorism.
We  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the  legitimate 
rights  of  the  Argentine  Republic  in  the  sovereignty 
dispute relating to the question of the Malvinas Islands.
in 
the  political  process  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela and reject international campaigns aimed at 
weakening it.
We  recognize  and  welcome 
the  progress 
We  condemn,  once  again,  the  arbitrary  conduct 
of the Government of the United States in preventing 
the  aircraft  of  our  colleague,  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros, 
President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, from 
flying  through  Puerto  Rico’s  airspace.  We  condemn 
that act, as well as the refusal of the United States to 
grant  visas  to  our  Venezuelan  brothers  so  that  they 
could attend this General Assembly plenary.
We  reiterate  our  support  for  the  brotherly  people 
of Puerto Rico in their struggle for self-determination, 
independence and social justice. Puerto Rico is one of 
the  last  colonial  enclaves  in  our  continent.  Its  brave 
people deserve our full support and solidarity in order 
to take their place within the United Nations and in our 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
thereby eliminating colonial situations from the region. 
We  express  our  solidarity  with  comrade  Oscar  López 
Rivera and demand that he be freed immediately.
We  express  the  hope  that  the  peace  process  in 
Colombia  will  come  to  fruition,  bringing  peace  and 
social progress to the people of that country.
We support the efforts being made to achieve lasting 
solutions to the conflicts in the Middle East and North 
Africa.  Nicaragua  continues  to  support  a  negotiated 
solution to the bloody conflict in Syria. The proposal 
of the Russian Federation to put an end to the war has 
received  broad  international  support,  including  from 
countries  that  are  members  of  the  Security  Council 
with the right of veto.
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  cause  of 
the  Palestinian  people  in  their  struggle  for  self-
determination  and  their  legitimate  right  to  establish 
their  own  State.  We  consider  the  resumption  of  talks 
between  Palestine  and  Israel  to  be  a  step  in  the  right 
direction.  The  talks  must  be  accompanied  by  the 
suspension of the construction of Israeli settlements in 
the occupied Palestinian territories.
We reiterate our solidarity with the struggle of the 
Polisario Front and the Sahrawi people, which this year 
marks its fortieth anniversary.
We welcome the fiftieth anniversary of the African 
Union  under  the  banner  of  pan-Africanism  and  the 
African renaissance.
Furthermore,  Nicaragua  continues  to  support  the 
just  aspirations  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan 
for  greater  participation  in  the  various  bodies  and 
specialized agencies of the United Nations.
Much has been said and heard in recent days about 
the  Grand  Canal  of  Nicaragua.  With  that  project, 
our  Government  intends  to  take  advantage  of  the 
unprecedented transformation in global maritime trade 
13-48917
29/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
that has taken place in the first decade of the twenty-
first  century.  Maritime  trade  is  expected  to  continue 
to grow, particularly between Asia and the Americas, 
and our project is designed to complement the Panama 
Canal expansion. We are planning a canal for peace, for 
the development of all peoples, constructed with a sense 
of responsibility as a world heritage site — a canal open 
to international investment in a reliable and transparent 
fashion, a canal that is the fulfilment of the dreams of 
the General of Free Men, Augusto C. Sandino, and of 
the people of Nicaragua, for their greater progress.
Climate  change  continues  to  be  a  grave  problem. 
“Our  environmental,  economic,  political,  social,  and 
spiritual  challenges  are  interconnected”,  states  the 
Earth  Charter.  In  that  statement  lies  the  essence  of 
our vision and our duty — to save Earth’s vitality and 
ourselves as the human race.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Alva  Romanus  Baptiste,  Minister  for  External 
Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint 
Lucia.
Mr. Baptiste (Saint Lucia): I address the General 
Assembly today with a sense of deep humility — humility 
in the wake of the great architects of world peace who 
have stood here before me — and pride. In that regard, 
I  will  utilize  my  maiden  address  to  this  body  to  pay 
homage  to  those  who  fostered  the  birth  and  initial 
dynamics of the United Nations. I therefore find it more 
than appropriate to utilize the principles contained in 
the Charter of the United Nations as a ready compass 
with which to set my course as I navigate the issues that 
occupy the forefront of our attention.
Before  indicating  my  own  country’s  perspectives 
on  present  trends,  let  me  take  the  opportunity  to 
congratulate  you,  Sir,  a  representative  of  a  Member 
State from my own Caribbean region, on your election 
to serve as President of the General Assembly. It is a 
clear  acknowledgement  by  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  all  States,  large  or  small,  have  a  deep 
and  broad  interest  in  how  international  relations  are 
evolving and a legitimate contribution to make towards 
resolving  the  problems  that  are  having  a  negative 
impact on us.
At  this  juncture,  permit  me  to  commence  my 
navigation. The first principle of the Charter reads as 
follows:
“To maintain international peace and security, and 
to  that  end:  to  take  effective  collective  measures 
for  the  prevention  and  removal  of  threats  to  the 
peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression 
or  other  breaches  of  the  peace,  and  to  bring 
about by peaceful means, and in conformity with 
the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
Our world vibrates with dynamic political changes, 
some  welcome,  and  some  threatening  to  the  interests 
of  small  States  and  therefore  unwelcome.  Like  other 
Member  States,  we  prefer  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes,  and  therefore  welcome  the  developments  in 
the Middle East, specifically in relation to Syria, where 
the option of a peaceful and negotiated resolution has 
taken precedence over the option of war. It is important 
that in such matters we not get caught up in the emotions 
of the moment. We must be cerebral in our approach, 
because  emotion  is  no  substitute  for  intelligence,  nor 
rigidity  for  prudence.  We  do  not  underestimate  the 
difficulties  inherent  in  the  resolution  of  issues  and 
disputes  between  nations  in  the  Middle  East.  But  we 
stand  for  the  right  to  self-determination  as  a  basic 
principle  of  any  people’s  existence,  and  hope  that  in 
other  parts  of  the  region  the  long-standing  claims  to 
entitlement on the part of the people of Palestine will 
continue  to  be  pursued,  primarily  through  persistent 
negotiation  as  against  any  inclination  to  the  threat  of 
violence and war. We are fortunate to have the United 
Nations  as  a  framework  within  which  we  can  always 
proceed to negotiate with patience and persistence until 
agreement and/or compromise is reached.
The second principle of the Charter of the United 
Nations is to develop friendly relations among nations 
based  on  respect  for  the  principle  of  the  equal  rights 
and  self-determination  of  peoples,  and  to  take  other 
appropriate  measures  to  strengthen  universal  peace. 
Saint  Lucia,  as  a  small  State  in  a  hemisphere  of  both 
small and large States, emphasizes the use of diplomacy 
as  a  prime  instrument  for  the  pursuit  of  normalized 
relations.  We  note  the  increasing  mutual  involvement 
of  the  peoples  on  both  sides  of  the  China  Strait  and 
express the hope that that will lead to normal relations 
beneficial to all the peoples of the world. In that regard, 
we  welcome  the  response  of  the  membership  of  the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  to  embrace 
the participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in 
30/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
aspects of its proceedings. That can be an appropriate 
model  for  the  further  engagement  of  Taiwan  in  the 
activities of international organizations, thus permitting 
that country to play its role more effectively in global 
development.
In the same context, the Government of Saint Lucia 
reiterates  its  support  for  the  inclusion  of  Cuba  in  all 
regional  and  hemispheric  organizations  that  it  wishes 
to join. We support the removal of what can clearly be 
seen  as  forced  exclusions,  which  are  surely  no  longer 
permissible under the new rules and regimes of balanced 
diplomacy.  As  is  evident,  the  exclusion  of  Cuba  from 
normal  and  complete  intercourse  remains  an  open 
wound in the heart of our hemisphere. It is unnecessary 
and needs to be ended. Saint Lucia therefore emphasizes 
its support for persistent international efforts towards 
the removal of the unconscionable embargo that inhibits 
Cuba’s legitimate efforts at economic growth and full 
hemispheric cooperation.
in  solving 
The  third  principle  of  the  Charter  is  to  achieve 
international  cooperation 
international 
problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian 
character,  and  in  promoting  and  encouraging  respect 
for  human  rights  and  for  fundamental  freedoms  for 
everyone  without  distinction  to  race,  sex,  language 
or  religion.  That  is  in  consonance  with  the  theme 
chosen  for  this  year’s  general  debate,  namely,  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”. 
Over  a  decade  ago,  when  the  world  was  entering  the 
twenty-first century, the United Nations took the lead 
in  setting  the  international  development  agenda.  At 
that time, we made a loud and clear declaration of war 
against extreme poverty and hunger, illiteracy, gender 
inequality, child mortality, poor maternal health care, 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, environmental 
degradation, as well as against the forces that seek to 
fragment our global partnership for development.
Our  declaration  was  appropriately  entitled  the 
Millennium  Declaration,  and  the  goals  contained 
therein  were  time-bound  and  target-driven.  Today, 
less  than  two  years  before  the  2015  deadline  arrives, 
we find ourselves facing new, and increasingly critical, 
development  challenges.  Youth  unemployment  has 
reached crisis proportions globally, and high debt levels 
have  threatened  the  solvency  and  stability  of  small 
States.  Climate  change  and  the  increasing  ferocity 
of  natural  and  man-made  disasters  are  threatening 
the  environmental  sustainability,  and  even  the  very 
existence, of small island developing States (SIDS).
Global  interdependence  demands  that  the  strong 
help  the  weak,  so  that  everyone  can  get  strong. 
Therefore,  the  setting  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda is a watershed moment in global history, and all 
countries must participate meaningfully in the process. 
The  rich  must  resist  the  temptation  to  retreat  inward, 
as that can idle the global economic engine. The post-
2015 development agenda must be driven by common 
aspirations,  shared  goals  and  a  unified  vision  of  a 
secure and stable world that we can proudly bequeath 
to our children.
Saint  Lucia  and  several  other  States  have  already 
embarked upon and completed post-2015 consultations, 
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP).  At 
least  20  such  national 
consultations  have  been  conducted  across  the  world, 
and they have provided invaluable inputs for the post-
2015  agenda.  They  emphasize  that  Saint  Lucia  and 
other  SIDS  have  serious  vulnerabilities  that  seem  to 
have escaped the gross domestic product-focused eyes 
of  some  of  our  development  partners.  The  post-2015 
agenda  must  therefore  address,  in  a  very  real  sense, 
the issues of concern to SIDS, such as the rise in sea 
level, non-communicable diseases, and the assessment 
of  loss  and  damage  caused  by  natural  and  man-made 
disasters and the funding needed for recovery. We are 
also  concerned  about  the  causes  of  climate  change, 
particularly  our  over-dependence  on  fossil  fuels,  and 
its destructive impact on the debt profiles of our small 
and vulnerable economies.
In  that  regard,  we  want  to  arrest  the  adverse 
consequences of climate change before they cripple us, 
and  we  want  to  accelerate  the  transition  to  renewable 
energy  using  clean,  green  technology.  In  May  2012, 
our  region  hosted 
the  Conference  on  Achieving 
Sustainable Energy for All in Small Island Developing 
States in Barbados and, together with UNDP and other 
international  partners,  we  resolved  to  set  targets  for 
increasing  the  renewable  component  of  our  energy 
mix.  Moreover,  a  month  ago  in  Barbados,  at  the 
third  interregional  preparatory  meeting  for  the  third 
International  Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  to  be  held  in  Apia,  Samoa,  in  2014,  SIDS 
reaffirmed their commitment and renewed calls for the 
world to pay attention to their special vulnerabilities.
That is in keeping with the fourth principle of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  asserts  that  the 
Organization  is  to  be  a  centre  for  harmonizing  the 
actions  of  nations  in  the  attainment  of  the  common 
13-48917
31/33
A/68/PV.21 
30/09/2013
ends mentioned earlier. In that regard, we recognize a 
number of United Nations initiatives.
First,  we  note  that  the  outcome  document  of  the 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  requested  the 
Secretary-General  to  initiate  thinking  on  a  post-2015 
development  agenda  and  to  include  recommendations 
in his annual report on efforts to accelerate progress on 
achieving the MDGs.
Thirdly,  we  note 
that 
Secondly,  we  recognize  that  the  2012  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  has 
initiated  an  inclusive  intergovernmental  process  for 
preparing a set of sustainable development goals.
the  work  of 
of  Experts 
the 
on 
Intergovernmental  Committee 
Sustainable  Development  Financing,  on  which  Saint 
Lucia  is  represented,  has  proceeded  in  a  positive 
fashion. That work includes initiatives of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  region  aimed  at  applying 
policies  to  address  the  effects  of  the  global  recession 
and  of  new  trends  and  rules  that  negate  our  effective 
participation  in  international  trade.  Such  initiatives 
are promoted by our regional institutions, such as the 
Caribbean Development Bank, whose President recently 
highlighted the need for new urgency in implementing 
policies  to  help  the  Bank’s  member  States  to  emerge 
from the effects of the global recession.
Fourthly, we take special cognizance of the special 
event just held and convened by you, Mr. President, to 
follow up on efforts to achieve the MDGs. We concur 
with  the  recommendations  that  propose  a  framework 
for  countries  like  mine  to  come  up  with  an  evolving 
response  to  the  new  international  environment  that 
recognizes  how  urgent  it  is  that  developed  countries 
fulfil their official development aid commitments, and 
how critical the MDGs are for meeting the basic needs 
of people in developing countries.
It is vital that all such initiatives on the part of the 
global  community  include  arrangements  such  as  an 
adaptation  fund  that  can  enhance  the  ability  of  small 
island developing States to begin constructing facilities 
that  can  protect  our  countries  from  sea-level  rise  and 
natural disasters. Do we lie supine on our backs and hug 
the elusive phantom of hope? No. Given the turbulent 
and unpredictable world situation that we small States 
face, we have been compelled to reassess, restructure 
and  reformulate  domestic  and  foreign  policy  postures 
to enable us to realistically readjust our economic and 
political  strategies  and  reshape  our  external  relations 
along  more  contemporary  and  multidimensional 
lines.  In  that  regard,  Saint  Lucia  has  been  making  a 
special effort in the area of regional and international 
outreach.  Within  our  hemisphere,  we  have  witnessed 
the  establishment  and  active  engagement  of  both  the 
Union of South American Nations and the Community 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  Saint 
Lucia,  like  other  Caribbean  Community  States,  has 
actively engaged with them where eligible.
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  have  also  joined  the 
Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America, 
so  as  to  broaden  our  activities  in  the  hemisphere  and 
ensure that we take full advantage of efforts to advance 
our  country’s  economic  growth,  reduce  the  economic 
inequalities that result from our small size and ensure 
our  full  participation  in  the  regional  and  global 
decision-making that inevitably affects us.
As  I  speak  of  a  better  balance  of  global  relations 
and the evolution of emergent political principles and 
practices,  Saint  Lucia  joins  with  other  CARICOM 
colleagues  in  drawing  attention  to  a  decision  of  the 
CARICOM Heads of State, taken at their thirty-fourth 
regular meeting, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, 
in  July.  That  decision  mandates  our  Governments  to 
collectively seek reparations, on behalf of our citizens 
and countries, for the period of exploitation experienced 
during the transatlantic slave trade. Our Governments 
have therefore initially agreed to the establishment of 
a Caribbean reparations commission that will prepare 
the relevant documentation and strategies for pursuing 
the  practical  achievement  of  that  goal,  with  a  central 
focus of righting the wrongs of the past and elevating 
the status of our people. In that regard, we will continue 
to  conduct  a  process  of  diplomatic  outreach,  not  only 
within our own hemisphere and the States of the African 
continent, the geographic location of our ancestors, but 
also within the wider United Nations family.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  importance  for  small 
States  like  Saint  Lucia  of  deliberate  and  sustained 
efforts  to  resolve  disputes  peacefully.  We  support 
strengthening  the  institutional  arrangements  of  the 
United  Nations  in  order  to  help  it  better  fulfil  its 
mandate.  As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  CARICOM  has 
been  actively  engaged  in  developments  relating  to 
reform of the Security Council. It is an issue that Saint 
Lucia’s  Permanent  Representative  has  been  directly 
involved in, particularly the question of expanding both 
the permanent and non-permanent membership of the 
32/33 
13-48917
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.21
Council and thereby giving that body’s decision-making 
greater legitimacy. We look forward to further progress 
on the matter.
For my part, I can only echo the words of the great 
Russian writer Nikolai Ostrovsky, who said,
“Man’s  dearest  possession  is  life.  It  is  given  to 
him but once, and he must live it so as to feel no 
torturing regrets for wasted years, never know the 
burning  shame  of  a  mean  and  petty  past;  so  live 
that,  dying,  he  might  say:  all  my  life  and  all  my 
strength  were  given  to  the  finest  cause  in  all  the 
world — the fight for the liberation of mankind”.
It  is  to  that  aim  that  my  country  and  I  devote  every 
moment of our time.
As  I  conclude,  Mr.  President,  I  thank  you  and 
extend  to  you  Saint  Lucia’s  best  wishes  and  support 
for  your  successful  tenure  of  office  as  you  pursue 
the  tasks  of  the  coming  year,  some  visible  and  some 
undoubtedly not yet foreseen. Saint Lucia’s hope is that 
as we navigate uncharted waters, we continually refer 
to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 
to  which  I  have  referred,  in  order  to  ensure  that  our 
great Organization remains on course, as together, with 
mutual purpose and mutual aid, we make a new period 
in history.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
13-48917
33/33
