United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
25th plenary meeting
Thursday, 3 October 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.25
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development
Agenda item 21
Globalization and interdependence
(e)  International migration and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/190)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/162)
Draft resolution (A/68/L.5)
The  President:  I  warmly  welcome  all  present 
to  this  High-level  Dialogue,  whose  overall  theme  is 
“Identifying concrete measures to strengthen coherence 
and cooperation at all levels, with a view to enhancing 
the benefits of international migration for migrants and 
countries alike and its important links to development, 
while reducing its negative implications”. This meeting 
is  held  in  accordance  with  resolutions  63/225,  of 
19 December 2008, and 67/219, of 21 December 2012.
this 
important 
I  am  deeply  honoured  to  be  here  today  at  the 
beginning  of 
two-day  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
to  discuss  a  topic  that  affects  virtually  every  country 
in  the  world.  The  recent  tragedy,  last  Thursday,  off 
the coast of Sicily serves as a sad reminder of why our 
discussions  on  migration,  particularly  the  protection 
and well-being of migrants, are both critical and urgent.
I  would  like  to  begin  my  remarks  today  with  a 
reference to my own country, the small island developing 
State of Antigua and Barbuda, where migration is both 
a bane and a blessing. We are a country of origin, so 
migration  deprives  us  of  the  skilled  workers  we  need 
for  our  development  —  teachers,  nurses,  technicians 
and so forth. But the flip side of that coin is that some 
of  our  citizens  who  live  and  work  overseas  invest, 
engage  in  trade  and  create  businesses  back  home.  In 
2012, we received $22 million in migrant remittances. 
At  the  same  time,  the  people  leaving  our  shores  also 
make  important  contributions  to  their  countries  of 
destination, providing much-needed skills there and so 
enhancing growth. But we are also a destination country, 
welcoming thousands of immigrants from many of our 
sister islands in the Caribbean. They contribute to our 
national development and work to build better lives for 
themselves and their families.
Over the next two days, the Assembly will focus on 
such individuals and many others from all over the world 
who leave their homes in search of better opportunities. 
Intuitively,  we  know  that  such  journeys  to  new  lands 
offer  the  potential  for  great  rewards  —  most,  if  not 
all, of us have also ventured from our own homelands. 
But  how  can  we  ensure  that  migration  benefits  the 
individuals  as  well  as  the  societies  and  countries 
involved, while minimizing the downsides?
As some here may recall, the General Assembly, at 
its sixty-seventh session, decided to hold this High-level 
Dialogue with the overall theme of “Identifying concrete 
measures  to  strengthen  coherence  and  cooperation 
at all levels, with a view to enhancing the benefits of 
international migration for migrants and countries alike 
and its important links to development, while reducing 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-49787 (E)
*1349787*
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
its  negative  implications”.  That  decision  marked  a 
turning point in a journey that began seven years ago, in 
2006, with the first High-level Dialogue on the subject. 
We agreed that migration, which for so long had been 
deemed  too  sensitive  an  issue,  deserved  —  indeed, 
required — our collective attention and efforts. We also 
agreed that migration was not a zero-sum proposition, 
but that all could benefit, provided that migration was 
properly managed. And such management, I hasten to 
add, is a joint responsibility of countries of origin and 
countries of destination.
Seven  years 
later,  our  progress  has  been 
significant.  First,  at  the  United  Nations,  we  continue 
to  make  progress,  agreeing  on  many  aspects  related 
to  international  migration  and  development  and  the 
protection  of  migrants,  while  raising  international 
awareness about the importance of the issue. A number 
of  resolutions  have  been  adopted  in  the  Second  and 
Third  Committees  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
migration-related  work  is  ongoing  in  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council.  Secondly,  the  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development, established after the 2006 
High-level  Dialogue,  is  serving  us  well  as  a  venue 
for  informal  discussion,  exchanging  good  practices 
and  inter-State  cooperation.  Thirdly,  civil  society  is 
working ever more closely with Member States in our 
quest to find practical solutions to concrete challenges. 
At the informal hearings held on 15 July in preparation 
for  this  Dialogue,  civil  society  presented  us  with  an 
action-oriented agenda for the next five years. Fourthly, 
the  United  Nations  system  is  coordinating  its  work 
on  migration  better,  through  the  Global  Migration 
Group,  and  there  is  now  enhanced  collaboration  with 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration.  Fifthly, 
inspired  by  those  new  developments  and  in  response 
to the realities on the ground, many Member States are 
experimenting with innovative migration policies.
On  25  June,  my  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
organized a panel discussion on international migration 
and development that clearly outlined the progress we 
have made so far. Panellists reminded us of the potential 
of migration as a force for development and the many 
hurdles  migrants  still  face,  and  they  acknowledged 
the  progress  made  since  2006.  Learning  from  our 
experiences in the past seven years, we should now take 
the next step. In line with our overall theme, the focus 
of our meeting should first and foremost be on practical 
measures  and  responses.  That  means  setting  realistic 
targets, committing to implementation and monitoring 
progress. In short, we must hold ourselves accountable 
in  following  up  on  our  Dialogue;  otherwise,  our 
dialogue will remain just talk.
Since  the  first  High-level  Dialogue  in  2006, 
the  face  of  migration  has  changed.  Overall  global 
migration patterns have shifted. In parts of Europe and 
North America, migration rates have slowed, while new 
destinations  have  emerged  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin 
America. In some areas, intraregional mobility is on the 
rise. Agreements such as the Caribbean Single Market 
and Economy are removing obstacles to the free flow 
of  skills,  labour  and  capital.  The  Southern  Common 
Market  has  introduced  measures  to  promote  the  free 
movement of its citizens. In addition to open mobility for 
citizens, the European Union has developed portability 
standards  for  health  care  and  pensions.  Globally,  the 
international  community  has  experienced  a  series  of 
crises related to food and fuel prices and economic and 
financial markets that have impacted countries around 
the  world.  Some  countries  have  bounced  back  with 
impressive growth rates, while others have been slow 
to  recover.  The  impact  on  migrants  has  varied;  some 
migrants  were  forced  to  return  home  when  their  jobs 
abroad disappeared, while new waves of migrants were 
created.
The  backlash  from  the  crisis  has  led  to  the 
resurfacing of racism, discrimination and intolerance. 
During  economic  downturns,  migrants  become  easy 
scapegoats. We must  take a  strong stand against that. 
We  need  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  the 
contributions of migrants are apparent not only to us, 
but  also  to  the  public  at  large.  We  have  an  important 
responsibility to get the message right.
towards 
Protecting  the  rights  of  migrants  must  be  the 
cornerstone of all migration policies. We have special 
responsibilities 
those  migrants  who  are 
most  vulnerable,  especially  undocumented  migrants, 
women,  children,  youth  and  migrants  stranded  in 
humanitarian crises. “[R]ecognition of ... the equal and 
inalienable rights of all members of the human family 
is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the 
world”. Those words from the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights also apply in particular to the more than 
230 million international migrants.
This  Dialogue  about  migration  and  development 
comes  at  a  critical  time  for  the  United  Nations,  as 
we  embark  on  what  could  be  the  Organization’s 
most  far-reaching  venture  to  date,  that  is,  defining  a 
2/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
global  development  agenda  that  picks  up  where  the 
Millennium Development Goals left off. The past seven 
years  have  confirmed  that  well-managed  migration 
reduces poverty, adds to human capital and contributes 
to  global  development.  In  2012,  migrants  sent  more 
than $400 billion in remittance flows, as compared to 
$126  billion  in  official  development  assistance.  They 
also contribute to the transfer of knowledge, skills and 
technology. As the Assembly debates the parameters of 
the  new  development  paradigm,  we  must  ensure  that 
migration  receives  its  rightful  place  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
This  Dialogue  provides  an  important  opportunity 
to  make  vital  contributions  to  that  endeavour.  Over 
the  course  of  the  next  two  days,  Member  States  will 
bring  national  experiences  to  the  table,  sharing  their 
perspectives  and  good  practices.  They  will  agree 
on  many  things,  and  they  will  no  doubt  disagree  on 
others. I trust that their deliberations will be informed 
by an acknowledgement of the joint responsibilities of 
both  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of  destination 
to  manage  migration  in  an  equitable  manner.  Our 
commitment is consistent with the principle of human 
dignity  and  celebrates  the  transformative  power  of 
human  ingenuity,  initiative  and  perseverance;  our 
shared belief in the rule of law and the need for people 
to  abide  by  it;  our  knowledge  that  societies  that  shut 
themselves  off  face  stagnation  and  decline,  whereas 
those that embrace diversity and opportunity reap the 
benefits; and, above all, our determination to improve 
the lives of the millions of men, women and children 
who are affected by migration on a daily basis.
Change  is  never  simple.  It  requires  patience, 
perserverance  and  a  firm  belief  in  the  ability  of  all 
people  to  live  together  peacefully.  We  will  need  to 
listen to each other, work together, forge consensus and 
break new ground. I am confident that we will rise to 
the occasion. We now have before us the text of the draft 
declaration,  which  I  understand  has  already  received 
our support. I wish to thank the delegation of Mexico 
for its valuable contribution to making that document 
a reality.
Let  me  conclude  by  wishing  everyone  a  fruitful 
discussion.
I now call on His Excellency Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  Before  I  begin,  let  me 
just  note  that  we  need  to  look  no  further  than  this 
morning’s headlines to see the great importance of this 
Dialogue. Dozens of African migrants are reported to 
have perished in the Mediterranean Sea after the ship 
on  which  they  were  travelling  sank.  I  offer  my  deep 
condolences, and I hope that we all take this as another 
spur to action.
Seven  years  ago,  we  came  together  in  this  same 
venue and agreed that we could find common ground 
on international migration. We agreed that migration, 
which  for  so  long  had  been  deemed  too  sensitive  to 
discuss, deserved and required our concerted attention. 
Seven years later, there is no doubt that we have come a 
long way. Today we are united in a joint declaration on 
the importance of migration to development, and on the 
protection of the rights of all migrants. That progress 
has  been  made  possible  by  the  climate  of  trust  that 
we established at the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development.
The face of migration is changing. Today migrants 
are coming from, and going to, more places than ever 
before.  Almost  half  of  migrants  are  women.  One  of 
every 10 migrants is under the age of 15, and four of 
every  10  migrants  are  living  in  developing  countries. 
Given  those  complex  realities,  we  need  to  work 
together,  with  courage  and  vision,  while  recognizing 
that  our  actions  will  have  an  impact  on  millions  of 
women, men and children. In my report (A/68/190) to 
the General Assembly, I put forward an ambitious eight-
point agenda to make migration work for all: migrants, 
societies of origin and societies of destination alike. Let 
me briefly outline my vision.
First, we must do more to protect the human rights 
of all migrants. Too often, migrants live in fear of being 
victimized  as  the  “other”;  of  having  little  recourse  to 
justice; or of having their wages or passports withheld 
by an unscrupulous employer. We cannot remain silent. 
We need to eliminate all forms of discrimination against 
migrants, including those related to working conditions 
and  wages.  We  need  to  create  more  channels  for  safe 
and  orderly  migration,  and  to  seek  alternatives  to  the 
administrative detention of migrants.
the 
I call on all Member States to ratify and effectively 
implement the relevant international legal instruments, 
including 
International  Labour  Organization 
Convention on Decent Work for Domestic Workers and 
the  International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the 
Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their 
Families. I also urge Member States to engage with the 
relevant United Nations human rights mechanisms.
13-49787
3/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
transaction 
Second, we need to lower the costs of immigration 
and migration. Global remittances, including to high-
income  countries,  are  expected  to  reach  $550  billion 
this year and to surpass $700 billion by 2016. Yet every 
year,  billions  of  those  funds  are  withheld  through 
unnecessarily  high 
fees.  Moreover, 
countless migrants pay their life savings, and those of 
their families, to unethical recruiters and end up in debt 
bondage. Imagine what we could achieve if those funds 
were  put  to  work  for  development,  to  send  a  child  to 
school, pay for a medical visit or start a small business.
Third,  we  must  end  the  exploitation  to  which 
migrants are vulnerable, including human trafficking. 
Those crimes often perpetuate vicious cycles of abuse, 
violence and poverty, to which women and children are 
particularly vulnerable. We have a sound international 
legal framework to guide us in combating such crimes. 
Let us implement those instruments together.
Fourth, we need to address the plight of stranded 
migrants.  Migrants  are  often  caught  in  situations  of 
conflict or natural disaster. My Special Representative 
on  Migration,  Mr.  Peter  Sutherland,  who  has 
championed this issue, has made a number of concrete 
recommendations  for  protecting  migrants  affected  by 
such crises. I am pleased to note that the United States 
and the Philippines have offered to lead an initiative to 
create a framework that would articulate clear roles and 
responsibilities for all involved.
Fifth,  we  need  to  improve  public  perceptions  of 
migrants. Migrants contribute greatly to host societies. 
As entrepreneurs, they create jobs. As scientists, they 
are engines of innovation. They are doctors, nurses and 
domestic  workers  and  are  often  the  unheralded  heart 
of many service industries. Yet far too often they are 
viewed negatively. Too many politicians seek electoral 
advantage  by  demonizing  migrants.  While  we  should 
not  ignore  the  challenges  that  arise  from  migration, 
especially  in  the  context  of  high  unemployment,  we 
should  dispel  dangerous  myths.  But  information  is 
not  enough.  It  takes  leadership  to  reinforce  positive 
messages about the benefits of migration.
Sixth,  we  need  to  integrate  migration  into  the 
development  agenda.  With  discussions  under  way  on 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  a  new  set  of 
goals  for  sustainable  development,  the  time  is  ripe  to 
present a compelling case about why migration matters 
for development. My report entitled “A life of dignity 
for  all”  (A/68/202)  includes  the  positive  contribution 
of  migrants  as  one  of  the  transformative  actions  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  One  litmus  test 
of  the  new  agenda’s  inclusivity  will  be  the  degree  to 
which migrants and diasporas are seen as development 
partners, and not left behind.
Seventh,  we  need  to  strengthen  the  migration 
evidence  base.  We  are  fortunate  to  live  in  an  era  of 
information,  yet  reliable  data  on  migration  and  its 
impact on development are often very hard to come by. 
Migration  policies  should  be  guided  by  facts,  rather 
than hunches and hearsay.
Eighth, we need to enhance migration partnerships 
and  cooperation.  The  forward-thinking  proposals  of 
civil society now play an integral part in shaping our 
actions. We have also made progress in improving the 
coherence  and  coordination  of  the  Global  Migration 
Group, which brings together 15 United Nations entities 
and the International Organization for Migration.
I  encourage  all  parties  to  continue  strengthening 
their  collaboration.  To  that  end,  I  have  asked  my 
Special Representative on Migration to meet regularly 
with the leadership of the Global Forum on Migration 
and  Development  and  the  Global  Migration  Group  to 
identify shared priorities.
Migration is an expression of the human aspiration 
for dignity, safety and a better future. It is part of the 
social  fabric,  part  of  our  very  make-up  as  a  human 
family. It would be naive to overlook the costs, including 
the  human  costs.  Yet  even  sceptics  have  to  recognize 
that  migration  has  become  a  fundamental  part  of  our 
globalized  world.  It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to 
make  migration  work  for  the  benefit  of  migrants  and 
countries alike. We owe that to the millions of migrants 
who, through their courage, vitality and dreams, help 
make  our  societies  more  prosperous,  resilient  and 
diverse. Let us intensify our work and be sure to follow 
up.
Let  me  express  my  great  appreciation  to  all  the 
bodies  and  organizations  that  are  devoting  attention 
to this issue. Special thanks as well go to my Special 
Representative,  whose  advocacy  and  leadership  have 
advanced  the  debate  and  improved  our  collective 
handling of this issue.
Let  us  all  make  sure  that  the  2013  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
becomes a watershed moment when we show the world 
that we can make a difference for the common good and 
our common future.
4/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/68/L.5,  entitled  “Declaration  of 
the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development”. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/68/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
68/4).
The  President:  I  should  now  like  to  consult 
members in relation to giving the floor to the following 
speakers:  the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Néstor  Osorio;  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Tobias  Billström,  Chair  of  the  Global 
Forum on Migration and Development; Mr. Ian Goldin, 
professor at Oxford University, as an eminent person in 
the  field  of  international  migration  and  development; 
and Mr. Gibril Faahl, Chair of the African Foundation 
for  Development,  United  Kingdom,  as  a  migrant 
representative.
In my letter dated 2 October 2013, I proposed that 
those  speakers  deliver  statements  at  the  beginning  of 
this morning’s plenary meeting. If I hear no objection, I 
shall take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly 
to  invite  those  speakers  to  make  a  statement  at  this 
meeting.
It was so decided.
The President: I now give the floor to the President 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Néstor Osorio.
Mr. Osorio (Colombia), President of the Economic 
and Social Council (spoke in Spanish): It is an honour 
and pleasure to address the second High-level Dialogue 
on International Migration and Development.
As  my  predecessors  have  already  pointed  out, 
migration is a powerful tool for development, and that 
is the focus of the Economic and Social Council with 
regard  to  that  phenomenon.  International  migration 
should be seen as a driver of global development, given 
its  important  contribution  towards  the  achievement 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  its  impact 
as  a  key  factor  for  sustainable  development.  It 
should  therefore  be  duly  considered  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
There  is  a  clear  need  to  better  articulate  and 
strengthen the links between migration and development 
governed 
by 
and to promote a human rights-based approach in order 
to achieve the fullest potential that migration can give 
to development. Migration has the power to transform 
the lives of individuals and their families, as well as to 
shape  societies  in  the  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination.
When 
policies, 
international  migration  can  be  an  empowering 
experience 
that  affords  development  benefits  for 
migrants, their families and their societies in countries 
of  origin  and  destination.  Migration  can  contribute 
to  human  and  community  development  through  the 
accumulation  of  human  capital,  greater  access  by 
migrant households to social services and the increased 
participation  of  women  in  productive  employment, 
inter alia.
rights-based 
As the President of the General Assembly indicated 
a  few  minutes  ago,  every  year  billions  of  dollars  are 
sent  in  remittances.  In  2012,  migrant  families  in 
developing  countries  received  more  than  $400  billion 
in remittances. Remittances have proved to be a stable 
source of private financial resources that can improve 
the lives and well-being of tens of millions of families 
worldwide.
The  impact  of  the  formation  of  transnational 
communities is also increasing. Groups in the diaspora 
contribute 
to  strengthening  economic  and  social 
ties  among  countries  through  their  labour,  skills, 
knowledge, ideas, values and cultures. They facilitate 
trade  and  technology  transfer  and  channel  foreign 
direct investment.
The  first  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  recognized  migration  as 
an  intrinsic  part  of  global  development.  As  a  result, 
the Global Forum on Migration and Development was 
established as a common platform to share information 
and  best  practices  and  to  promote  national,  bilateral 
and  regional  cooperation.  We  have  come  a  long  way 
since the first High-level Dialogue, in 2006. The fact 
that Member States have been able to agree on a joint 
declaration  as  the  outcome  document  of  this  second 
Dialogue  (resolution  68/4)  proves 
the  significant 
progress  made  and  the  commitment  that  exists  with 
regard to it.
It is time to act more systematically and responsibly 
in countries of origin, transit and destination so as to 
put  in  place  an  action-oriented  agenda  that  creates  a 
safer  and  more  transparent  system  of  international 
13-49787
5/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
mobility,  one  that  protects  the  human  rights  of  all 
the  positive  contribution  of 
migrants,  enhances 
migrants  and  migration 
fosters 
cohesion  in  multilateral  environments  and  improves 
the public perception of migrants and presents them as 
vital members of our societies.
to  development, 
The report of the Secretary-General (A/68/190) has 
proposed a set of concrete actions. I wish to highlight 
some  of  them:  first,  protect  and  promote  the  human 
rights  of  all  migrants;  secondly,  reduce  the  costs 
related  to  migration;  thirdly,  combat  the  exploitation 
of  migrants,  including  the  trafficking  in  persons; 
fourthly,  improve  the  public  perception  of  migrants; 
fifthly, give due consideration to migration in the post-
2015 development agenda; and, sixthly, strengthen and 
promote dialogue and cooperation and partnerships on 
migration issues.
to  enhance 
The  overall  objective  of  this  event  is  to  identify 
concrete  measures 
the  benefits  of 
international migration and better address the particular 
issues it presents in terms of development. The United 
Nations should play a fundamental role in the follow-
up  to  the  High-level  Dialogue  through  a  coherent, 
comprehensive  and  coordinated  approach.  Given  that 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  undergoing  an 
important  review  of  its  functions  and  mandates,  we 
should also consider how it can play a significant role 
with  regard  to  the  complex  interrelationship  between 
migration  and  development.  The  Global  Migration 
Group,  made  up  of  15  United  Nations  entities  and 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration,  should 
continue to play a key role and to assess the progress in 
the field of migration and development.
We  are  all  aware  that  migration  can  provide  a 
threefold  benefit.  Destination  countries  can  benefit 
because migrants fill skills gaps and make up for labour 
and market shortages. Countries of origin can benefit 
through  financial  and  cultural  transfers.  Migrants 
themselves can benefit both economically and socially.
Yet  migration  also  has  costs.  Measures  should 
be  taken  to  reduce  the  cost  of  remittance  transfers. 
Important steps in that regard could include improving 
the  regulatory  framework  for  financial  services  and 
increasing  transfer  services  through  public-private 
partnerships.
I believe that we all need to work on an effective 
global  agenda  while  promoting  and  strengthening 
existing institutions and frameworks and improving the 
governance of migration on the basis of human rights at 
the international, regional and local levels. Cooperation 
with  all  those  concerned  is  needed  to  facilitate  the 
effective contribution of migration to development.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for his statement.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Tobias 
Billström, Chair of the Global Forum for Migration and 
Development.
Mr.  Billström  (Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  say  that 
I was deeply struck by the news of the tragic deaths of 
more than 90 migrants, including children and women, 
off the coast of the island of Lampedusa, Italy. That event 
cannot in a more alarming way illustrate the urgency for 
all of us at this High-level Dialogue to commit to action 
for  a  holistic  approach  to  the  multifaceted  challenges 
arising from migration and development.
In 
response, 
When  we  gathered  for  the  High-level  Dialogue 
on International Migration and Development in 2006, 
there was an overwhelming interest in the continuation 
of  global  dialogue  on  international  migration  and 
development. 
the  Secretary-General 
proposed  the  establishment  of  the  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development as a venue for discussing 
such  issues  in  a  systematic  and  comprehensive  way. 
Belgium offered to host the first meeting the following 
year. Since then, the Philippines chaired the Forum in 
2008,  Greece  in  2009,  Mexico  in  2010,  Switzerland 
in 2011 and Mauritius in 2012. Sweden is the current 
Chair of the Forum.
The  Global  Forum  is  the  most  important  and 
tangible  deliverable  in  the  field  of  migration  and 
development  to  emerge  from  the  last  High-level 
Dialogue. More than 160 Governments have taken part 
in these annual meetings, with the goal of maximizing 
the development benefits for migration and minimizing 
its negative impact, especially on migrants. The Global 
Forum has built trust and helped shape the global debate 
on migration and development.
The  Forum  has  proved  to  be  a  successful  and 
innovative process for holistic, frank and constructive 
dialogue. It offers a space for informal and voluntary 
dialogue  among  Governments  on  current  and 
emerging migration and development issues. It is also 
a multi-stakeholder platform that brings Governments 
together with relevant stakeholders, including agencies 
6/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
of the Global Migration Group and other international 
organizations, civil society and the private sector.
The  Forum  has  been  successful  as  it  deals  with 
substance  relating  to  migration  and  development.  It 
is  open  to  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
although  it  is  a  body  that  operates  outside  of  the 
United  Nations  system.  Government  teams  have  been 
established  around  each  year’s  round-table  themes, 
where  Governments  and  other  stakeholders  share 
experiences  and  highlight  examples  of  policies  and 
practices, and thus learn from each other and establish 
partnerships.
Over  the  years,  States  and  relevant  stakeholders 
have engaged in constructive dialogue around thematic 
issues,  such  as  strategies  for  minimizing  costs  and 
maximizing  human  development,  labour  migration 
and  mobility,  diasporas,  remittances,  strategies  for 
addressing  irregular  migration  and  enabling  regular 
migration, the rights of migrants, policy coherence and 
mainstreaming, data and research, and the governance 
of  migration  and  coordination  of  dialogue,  as  well  as 
ways of involving civil society and the private sector.
As  for  concrete  outcomes  of  the  Global  Forum, 
we  have  records  of  good  practice  on  bilateral  labour 
arrangements,  benchmarks,  monitoring  and  licensing 
systems  for  recruiters  and  other  intermediaries,  the 
sharing  of  legal  frameworks  that  enable  mobility  and 
skills circulation, the sharing of practices to facilitate 
productive  investments  and  spending  on  health  and 
education through remittances, among other things.
When  dealing  with  rights,  the  discussions  in  the 
Global  Forum  have  focused  not  only  on  international 
conventions,  but  also  on  the  shared  responsibility  to 
protect  the  rights  of  migrants  and  to  engage  with  the 
measures that are in place so as to enable migrants to 
access  social  and  economic  rights.  In  that  regard,  the 
Forum has addressed issues relating to the portability 
of  pensions,  national  examples  of  cost-effective 
health-care models and brain waste, as well as broader 
integration-reintegration  development 
links.  The 
approach  focuses  on  the  human  and  social  capital  of 
migrants  and  its  contribution  to  development,  in  both 
source  and  receiving  countries.  From  one  year  to  the 
next,  the  Global  Forum  has  successfully  discussed 
selected themes in greater depth, while identifying new 
ones  such  as  South-South  migration,  links  between 
environmental change and migration as well as the role 
of migration in the post-2015 development agenda.
The substantive work conducted within the Global 
Forum between the High-level Dialogue of 2006 and now 
bears witness to the success of the Forum in engaging 
with the evolving challenges and opportunities shaped 
by migration dynamics. That is also underscored in the 
recently concluded assessment of the first six years of 
the  Global  Forum,  in  which  some  80  per  cent  of  the 
respondents  expressed  satisfaction  with  the  Forum 
process and an overwhelming majority of Governments 
considered  that  the  process  brought  added  value 
compared  to  other  related  forums.  Indeed,  the  ever-
increasing  number  of  Governments  that  engage  with 
the process testifies to that success.
That  is  a  very  positive  development.  By  sharing 
experiences  and  lessons  learned,  the  Global  Forum 
paves  way  for  improvements  in  policy,  programmes 
and  practice.  Ultimately,  that  will  bring  benefits  for 
the countries of origin and destination and for migrants 
themselves.
In  conclusion,  the  Global  Forum  has  become  a 
major  deliverable  since  the  last  High-level  Dialogue. 
Its  success  in  enabling  dialogue,  building  trust  and 
sharing  experiences  has  been  documented,  and  its 
working methods, building on informal and voluntary 
exchanges,  have  been  critical  for  that  success.  As  a 
global  community,  we  should  take  further  steps  to 
strengthen such a positive achievement and ensure its 
sustainability. The success of the Global Forum cannot 
be taken for granted. It requires strong and consistent 
engagement by Governments and other stakeholders in 
the Forum process.
We therefore encourage Governments to maintain 
their ownership of the Forum, to support it, to engage 
actively  through  a  broad  range  of  ministries  in  the 
thematic discussions of Government teams throughout 
the year and to continue strengthening the development 
focus  of  the  Forum.  As  the  current  Chair,  we  are 
working in close partnership with the outgoing Chair, 
Mauritius,  and  the  incoming  Chair,  Turkey,  to  move 
the  process  forward.  The  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Representative on Migration, Mr. Peter Sutherland, has 
been an important link to the United Nations system, 
and his commitment has been crucial for the success of 
the Global Forum.
I conclude my statement by inviting the Assembly 
to  read  the  Thematic  Recollection  submitted  to  this 
meeting, for an overview of the issues discussed in the 
Global Forum over the years.
13-49787
7/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Ian 
Goldin,  Professor  at  Oxford  University  and  eminent 
person  in  the  field  of  international  migration  and 
development.
Mr. Goldin: It is a singular honour and a privilege 
for me to be here today, and I thank you, Mr. President, 
for the invitation. The devotion of two days to this most 
important topic is a ray of hope for all of those who are 
concerned with migration and development.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  his  report  on  international 
migration and development before us today (A/68/190). 
It  highlights  some  of  the  evidence  and  provides  an 
eminently sensible and concrete set of actions that, if 
taken forward, will advance the lives of many millions 
of people around the world. The progress made by the 
Global  Forum  for  Migration  and  Development  and  in 
other initiatives, such as the recent Dhaka declaration, 
are  additional  rays  of  light  in  what  is  otherwise  an 
extremely  cloudy  environment  for  migration  and 
development.  In  country  after  country,  major  agenda 
items on migration are stalled and in some, even reversed. 
As in so many areas, decisions that are politically tough 
get  bogged  down  in  the  gridlock  of  short-termism. 
Overcoming  that  in  a  world  of  hyperconnectivity  and 
the  empowerment  of  citizens  and  the  pressures  of 
daily politics and business is a major task for leaders, 
requiring them to translate the theories we know into 
actions  and  make  the  right  decisions  in  a  very  tough 
political environment.
We  hope  that  the  gathering  weight  of  evidence 
that  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change 
presented last week will unblock the logjam in climate 
negotiations.  When  it  comes  to  trade,  we  have  seen 
theoretical  evidence  and  one  conceptual  framework 
after  another  that  prove  the  importance  of  the  trade 
reform stalled in Doha. We cannot allow that to happen 
in migration as well. The gathering weight of evidence 
on migration and development will, I hope, give strength 
to all of those who believe that they can overcome the 
constant  stream  of  negative  anecdotes  and  alarmist 
rhetoric that so paralyses progress every day.
in  migration  regimes 
All evidence points to the fact that small changes 
to  much  more 
made 
significant  economy-wide,  nationwide  gains 
for 
both  the  sending  and  the  receiving  countries  and,  of 
course, fundamentally transform the lives of migrants 
themselves  and  their  families.  There  is  no  other  area 
lead 
of economic reform where small incremental changes 
can  so  radically  improve  the  lives  of  so  many  for  so 
long,  because  such  reform  affects  not  only  current 
generations;  it  has  a  lasting  effect,  as  all  of  us  here 
today know: we are all migrants. We would not be here, 
the  United  States  would  not  be  what  it  is,  nor  would 
any  other  society  or  civilization  we  know,  without 
migration. Yet in our daily activities, we forget that.
The  founding  fathers  of  economics,  John  Stuart 
Mill, Adam Smith and many others, saw the migration 
of  peoples  as  absolutely  central  to  economic  growth 
and progress. They knew the central place of migration, 
and so it is a puzzle that their modern disciples believe 
in freedoms in many of the spheres the founding fathers 
talked about, but not in this one. Despite the fact that we 
have shown that globalization has improved the lives of 
more people more rapidly than any other process in the 
history of humankind, when it comes to migration we 
have the exceptionalism of denial — the exceptionalism 
that  means  that,  despite  hyperconnectivity  and  the 
flows  of  all  other  goods  and  services,  matter  and 
finance,  there  are  now  fewer  migrants  as  a  share  of 
the population of the world than there were before the 
globalization process began, and relatively much lower 
levels  than  before  the  First  World  War,  even  though, 
of  course,  the  absolute  numbers  are  much  higher,  as 
population growth has increased.
In  my  book  Exceptional  People,  I  take  a  forensic 
look  at  the  evidence.  John  Galbraith  called  migration 
the  oldest  action  against  poverty  that  humankind  has 
known and that is repeated in the evidence. The World 
Bank has shown in its modelling that changes as small 
as 3 per cent in migration flows would increase world 
welfare by more than $350 billion. Those numbers are 
much larger than commensurate changes in other areas 
of economic activity.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I have no doubt 
of  the  net  economic  benefits  for  sending  countries, 
receiving countries and migrants themselves. Yet none 
of  that  evidence  adequately  accounts  for  the  dynamic 
factors. And it is the dynamic factors that in the long 
term  will  make  the  difference  to  all  of  our  futures. 
They will make the difference to the dynamism of each 
and  every  one  of  our  societies.  We  know  that  from 
new  evidence  coming  out  of  places  such  as  Silicon 
Valley, where more than half the start-ups are thanks to 
migrants, as are half of the patents in the United States. 
As we will see with the latest flourish of Nobel Prizes, 
exceptionally gifted people who travel do exceptional 
8/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
things. But this is not only about exceptionally gifted 
people; it is about the unskilled too. Steve Jobs would 
not have started Apple if his parents had not migrated, 
and so it is in the dynamic effects over the long term.
The  problem  is  not  in  the  evidence;  it  is  in  the 
politics. The problem is the short-termism and the focus 
on local costs and perceptions. The perceptions are not 
reflected  in  the  evidence,  whether  it  is  that  migrants 
bring down wages, or lead to reduced incomes, or are 
a  burden  on  the  tax  system,  social  security  systems, 
hospital systems or other. We know from the evidence 
that the perceptions are not correct.
Yet  we  also  know  that  we  are  not  winning  the 
political arguments. It is because, as in trade, the short-
term  and  local  costs  tend  to  be  very  direct  and  very 
visible and are fanned by rhetoric. And yet the benefits 
are national, global and longer-term.
We  need  leadership.  We  need  evidence  that  is 
able  to  traverse  from  the  short  to  the  long  term.  We 
need bottom-up actions at the community and national 
levels, and top-down actions at the United Nations and 
Global Forum levels.
We must accept the real concerns regarding social 
cohesion,  social  security,  undocumented  workers  and 
other  concerns.  Part  of  that  is  about  accepting  that 
we cannot place the burden of dealing with migration 
on local communities. We see that in the tragedies of 
Lampedusa today and in so many other places. Because 
the benefits are national and longer-term, it has to, in 
the end, be a national responsibility.
Individual communities cannot carry the burdens of 
great influxes of people, of schooling, of education and 
other matters. The benefits are long-term and national. 
Migration  issues  have  to  be  seen  as  something  that 
national  Governments  take  forward.  We  can  all  take 
small, incremental steps together. Through those steps 
and through bottom-up and top-down actions, I believe 
we will be able to make a fundamental difference.
eight-point 
The  Secretary-General’s 
agenda 
highlights many of the items that need to be addressed, 
namely, the major issues of rights, such as the question 
of pension portability and the simple ability of migrants 
to carry funds and remittances, which has been talked 
about by previous speakers. The data and research need 
a much broader perception. Data on migration remain 
an  orphan  of  the  system.  The  responsibility  is  on  all 
of us for what we are able to do in terms of taking the 
agenda forward.
For  development,  for  developing  countries  and 
also for the most advanced countries, there is no more 
important debate in the world than this one. The task 
is to transform what we know into concrete actions in 
small steps, which will take the agenda forward. It is 
the right theme at the right place and at the right time. I 
wish the Assembly well as it seeks to do the right thing.
The President: I now give the floor to Mr. Gibril 
Faal, Chair of the African Foundation for Development 
in the United Kingdom and migrant representative.
Mr.  Faal  (African  Foundation  for  Development): 
Six years after the 2006 High-level Dialogue, in these 
times  of  post-2015  reflection,  we  gather  here  again 
to  discuss  migration  and  development  and  to  seek 
transformative new approaches.
itinerant  diplomats, 
As  I  look  out  over  the  Hall,  I  see  migrants 
everywhere: 
first-generation 
immigrants and the many descendants of migrants who 
constitute diasporas in various parts of the world. The 
place is full of them.
Given the fundamental and age-old nexus between 
migration  and  development,  it  is  quite  odd  that  we 
have not made as much progress in the field as would 
have been natural. As nation States, we operate within 
demarcated  borders,  jealous  and  protective  of  the 
proud  sovereignty  they  represent.  Yet  ours  is  a  world 
of acres of land and herds of people. It appears that we 
sanctify the acres of land and the privileges thereof at 
the expense of the herds of people and their humanity.
We defame the scheming migrant who encroaches 
on our land and realm, not seeing the aspiring individual 
who yearns for a decent and good life for herself and 
her  family.  A  change  of  attitude  towards  migrants 
and diasporas is imperative if a new partnership is to 
be  established.  Partnerships  with  diasporas  need  to 
be  based  on  a  solid  foundation  where  suspicion  and 
mistrust are allayed and tokenism surpassed.
In 
these 
times  when  we  are  contemplating 
sustainable development goals for our world, one with 
Gaia-like global connectedness, we need new diaspora 
enlightenment. We need to be comfortable with respect 
to the transnational characteristics that define migrants 
and diasporas. We need to reaffirm the eternal virtues 
of transnationalism.
Some  may  call  us  naive.  Some  many  even  think 
that  we  are  sandal-wearing,  bleeding-heart  liberals. 
But we will have responded to the empirical needs of 
13-49787
9/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
the  contemporary  fluid  and  amorphous  twenty-first-
century realities.
As a distinct outcome of the High-level Dialogue, 
civil society proposes to collaborate with States during 
the  next  five  years  for  measurable  progress  on  eight 
points. We have the eight points in three languages and 
multiple colours for members’ delectation.
The action plan is our memorandum of engagement, 
our  writ  of  partnership,  our  deed  of  action.  We 
acknowledge  and  express  gratitude  to  the  Assembly 
for accommodating civil society and diaspora voices in 
the  proceedings.  We  hope  that  such  cooperation  will 
become deeper and even more cordial in future.
Now we come before the Assembly and ask for its 
endorsement  of  the  five-year  eight-point  action  plan. 
As Peter Drucker, the Austrian-American management 
thinker, would have said: leaders do the right things and 
managers do things right. We call on the Assembly, as 
leaders, to endorse the outcome (resolution 68/4) of the 
High-level Dialogue. It will be a result — real and apt, 
true  and  fair.  “I  have  spent  many  days  stringing  and 
unstringing  my  instrument,  while  the  song  I  came  to 
sing remains unsung.” That is the poetic caution given 
to us by Rabindranath Tagore, the Bengali writer.
In looking forward, I am reminded of the audacious 
advice  of  one  of  my  colleagues  at  the  African 
Foundation  for  Development,  a  non-governmental 
organization involved in funding development through 
diaspora  actors:  “Let  States,  migrants  and  diasporas, 
together, aspire for full employment.” That vision is big 
and noble enough to unite all of those who yearn to see 
decent jobs for all. In it, people will have the dignity to 
live off of the honest sweat of their brow; youth will be 
less receptive to destructive movements and nihilistic 
ideologies; and migration itself will become a genuine 
choice, rather than dictated by necessity or desperation. 
Perhaps  the  generation  to  come  will  not  know  of  the 
grotesque horrors and human misery of dysfunctional 
migration.
agencies 
and 
I  see  migrants  with  constrained  resources  and 
pressured  circumstances  extract  their  families  from 
poverty  within  a  generation.  I  see  Governments, 
multilateral 
non-governmental 
organizations  with  massive 
resources  and  State 
privileges admit the self-evident failures of combating 
chronic poverty. I am a simple man. I made a deduction: 
perhaps 
to  achieve 
development.
those  migrants  know  how 
It is indeed true that for many of those in diaspora 
making  a  contribution  to  the  development  of  the 
country  of  origin  and  heritage  is  not  seen  as  work, 
or  the  fulfilment  of  a  political  mandate,  or  even 
the  heroic  response  to  a  twinge  of  conscience.  For 
them,  development  is  a  way  of  life  —  the  very  stuff 
of  life  —  the  support  of  families,  communities  and 
countries. There are 200 million migrants. Millions of 
second-generation people in diasporas support 1 billion 
people in the developing world. Here we are a veritable 
partner for development.
I urge the members of the Assembly, when they go 
back home, just as I urge the Secretary-General, when he 
reports on this Dialogue, to tell the world that migrants 
and  diasporas  are  ready,  able  and  willing;  that  States 
avow  a  new  inclusive  attitude  towards  transnational 
migrant diaspora; that we endorse a framework action 
plan  for  partnership.  May  they  tell  the  world,  so  that 
all  development  stakeholders  hear  the  news,  that  in 
this very place in 2013, we endorsed the heralding of 
a new partnership among migrant disaporas and State 
institutions.  May  they  tell  the  world,  so  that  cynics 
and sceptics, realists and optimist alike, will come to 
witness the triumphant hopes and indomitability of the 
migrant spirit.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  paragraph 
13  of  resolution  67/219,  I  now  call  on  Ms.  Catherine 
Tactaquin, Executive Director of the National Network 
for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, United States.
Ms.  Tactaquin  (National  Network  for  Immigrant 
and  Refugee  Rights):  I  am  pleased  to  address  the 
Assembly  this  morning  as  a  representative  of  global 
civil  society.  Our  many  diverse  organizations  and 
community members concerned with the health, safety, 
welfare and happiness of some 232 million in migration 
around  the  world  today  welcome  the  opportunity  to 
share our proposal for a five-year action plan.
The  proposal  was  formalized  in  November  2012, 
has  been  supported  by  hundreds  of  civil  society 
organizations  worldwide  and  was  shared  through 
the  United  Nations  and  with  various  States  as  our 
contribution  to  this  High-level  Dialogue.  Since  the 
beginning of this year, some 600 civil society leaders 
and organizations have met in 21 regional and national 
events and convened again here in New York in July at 
the time of the informal interactive hearing organized 
by the Office of the President of the General Assembly 
to  discuss  this  proposal  and  more.  This  has  been  an 
10/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
unprecedented  level  of  participation  of  civil-society, 
certainly  since  the  last  High-level  Dialogue,  in  2006. 
Even  during  this  week,  some  500  global  civil  society 
partners  have  continued  to  confer  across  the  street 
in  the  parallel  people’s  global  action  on  migration, 
development and human rights.
As we noted in the conclusion of July’s interactive 
hearing,  we  are  mindful  that  we  now  stand  at  an 
important  moment,  one  which  we  hope  will  be  a 
crossroads between simply talking and taking deliberate 
action.  While  we  recognize  and  very  much  support 
strategic thinking and planning to address the complex 
factors motivating migration, we are eager to identify 
durable solutions, the strongest rights protections and 
standards,  opportunities  for  migrant  and  diaspora 
contributions  and  real  partnership.  We  come  here  to 
help make a difference.
We  urge  States  to  support  our  five-year  eight-
point action plan in considering the outcome document 
(resolution  68/4).  Our  hope  is  that  the  High-level 
Dialogue  will  launch  an  action  agenda  that  will  be 
both  reasonable  and  ambitious.  Our  proposal  focuses 
on eight points — that which also fall within the topic 
areas of the four round tables.
Briefly, we wholeheartedly support the integration 
of  migration  into  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
with  a  view  to  addressing  the  contributions  that 
migrants  make  to  development  in  countries  of  origin 
and  destination,  as  well  as  better  planning,  policy-
planning and coherence that can make migration more 
genuinely  a  choice  and  not  a  necessity,  with  greater 
gain  than  drain.  In  that  context,  we  support  the  right 
to migrate and the right to remain at home with decent 
work and human security.
We encourage models and frameworks to facilitate 
the  engagement  of  diaspora  and  migrant  associations 
as entrepreneurs, social investors, policy advocates and 
partners in setting and achieving priorities for the full 
range  of  human  development  in  countries  of  origin, 
heritage and destination.
We  believe  there  must  be  reliable,  multi-actor 
mechanisms  to  provide  assistance  and  protection  to 
migrants  stranded  in  distress,  beginning  with  those 
trapped in situations of war, conflict or disaster, whether 
from  natural  or  man-made  causes,  and  certainly  with 
the same logic and urgency with respect to the migrant 
victims  of  violence  or  trauma  in  transit.  The  deaths 
off  the  coast  of  Lampedusa,  as  well  as  those  of  the 
hundreds of thousands and more of other migrants who 
have lost their lives in similar circumstances, reinforce 
that urgency.
in 
Throughout  our  proposal,  we  seek  models  and 
frameworks  that  address  the  rights  and  needs  of 
migrant  women 
their  specificity.  Mechanisms 
must also consider the best interests of children in the 
context of migration, including their rights. We would 
like to see benchmarks for promoting the exchange of 
good practices and the enactment and implementation 
of national legislation to comply with the full range of 
provisions in international conventions that pertain to 
migrants, even outside the labour sphere, with particular 
concern for their rights in the context of enforcement 
policies  —  rights  to  basic  social  protections  and  due 
process.
Our  proposal  envisions  a  redefinition  of  the 
interaction  of  international  mechanisms  of  migrant 
rights  protection  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations 
normative 
the 
participation  of  civil  society  in  future  governance 
mechanisms.
institutionalizing 
framework  and 
Finally,  but  certainly  far  from  the  least  of  our 
concerns,  we  urge  the  identification  or  establishment 
of effective standards and mechanisms to regulate the 
migrant  labour  recruitment  industry,  and  we  strongly 
support  mechanisms  to  guarantee  a  full  and  broad 
range of labour rights for migrant workers. This is in 
the context of decent work and ensuring the dignity of 
all migrant workers.
Migrant  workers’  rights  cannot  be  protected 
through 
informal  networks  with  no  monitoring 
systems, no genuine participation by civil society and 
no reference to the normative framework agreed upon 
at the international level.
Those  are  our  recommendations  for  State  action 
and,  in  some  areas,  action  in  partnership  with  civil 
society.  Our  emphasis  is  on  strategic  planning,  rights 
and action, and we hope that States will agree that we 
can collaborate on several areas of convergence.
Despite  a  life  often  touched  by  uncertainty, 
exploitation  or  trauma,  our  migrant  families,  friends, 
fathers, mothers and even children still hold to hopes 
and dreams for a better life and a brighter future, not 
just for themselves but for their communities, their new 
countries and their countries of origin. We members of 
civil  society  share  those  hopes  and  dreams  and  stand 
13-49787
11/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
ready  to  support  a  five-year  plan  as  advocates  and 
partners:  eight  points,  five  years,  collaboration  and 
action.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  resolution 
67/219, this High-level Dialogue consists of four plenary 
meetings and four interactive multi-stakeholder round 
tables. Round tables one and two will take place today 
at 10 a.m. and at 3 p.m., respectively. Round tables three 
and four will take place tomorrow, also at 10 a.m. and at 
3 p.m., respectively. The round tables will be held in the 
Trusteeship Council Chamber. Conference Room 2 will 
serve  as  an  overflow  room  for  the  plenary  meetings, 
and Conference Room 1 will serve as an overflow room 
for all the round tables.
Round table one, entitled “Assessing the effects of 
international migration on sustainable development and 
identifying relevant priorities in view of the preparation 
of  the  post-2015  development  framework”,  will  be 
co-chaired  by  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Rita  Claverie  de 
Sciolli, Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs of Guatemala, 
and  His  Excellency  Mr.  Heikki  Holmás,  Minister  for 
International Development of Norway.
Round table two will focus on “Measures to ensure 
respect  for  and  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  all 
migrants,  with  particular  reference  to  women  and 
children,  as  well  to  prevent  and  combat  smuggling 
of  migrants  and  trafficking  in  persons  and  to  ensure 
regular,  orderly  and  safe  migration”.  It  will  be 
co-chaired by His Excellency Mr. José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico, and 
Her Excellency Ms. Anne Richard, Assistant Secretary 
of State for Population, Refugees and Migration of the 
United States.
table 
three 
Round 
is  entitled  “Strengthening 
partnerships and cooperation on international migration, 
mechanisms  to  effectively  integrate  migration  into 
development  policies  and  promoting  coherence  at 
all  levels”.  It  will  be  co-chaired  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Patrick Abba Moro, Minister of Interior of Nigeria, 
and  Ms.  Simonetta  Sommaruga,  Head  of  the  Federal 
Department of Justice and Police of Switzerland.
The  fourth  round  table  will  take  place  tomorrow 
afternoon  from  3  p.m.  to  5:30  p.m.  and  will  focus 
on  “International  and  regional  labour mobility  and 
its  impact  on  development”.  It  will  be  co-chaired  by 
Mr.  Shahidul  Haque,  Permanent  Secretary  in  the 
Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Bangladesh,  and 
Mr.  Konstantin  Romodanovsky,  Minister,  Federal 
Migration Service of the Russian Federation.
Members are reminded that tomorrow at 5.30 p.m., 
at  the  concluding  plenary  meeting  of  the  High-level 
Dialogue, the co-Chairs of the round tables will present 
summaries of their discussions.
Additionally, I would like to draw attention to other 
organizational  matters  pertaining  to  the  conduct  of 
meetings. We turn first to the length of statements. In 
order to accommodate everyone inscribed on the lists, I 
urge speakers to limit their statements to four minutes, 
on  the  understanding  that  that  does  not  preclude  the 
distribution of more extensive texts. I appeal to speakers 
to cooperate in that request in view of the limited time 
frame,  and  I  also  appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver  their 
statements at a normal speed so that interpretation may 
be  provided  properly.  To  assist  speakers  in  managing 
their  time,  a  light  system  has  been  installed  at  the 
speakers’ rostrum and will function as follows: a green 
light  will  be  activated  at  the  start  of  the  speaker’s 
statement; an orange light will be activated 30 seconds 
before  the  end  of  the  four  minutes;  and  a  red  light, 
which means danger, will be activated when the four-
minute limit has been reached.
On that positive note, we will now begin the debate.
Mr. Cokanasiga (Fiji): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  Member  States  agreed 
include 
population and migration factors in their development 
strategies.  They  also  resolved  to  promote  the  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms of all migrants and to 
avoid practices that might increase the vulnerability of 
international migrants.
to 
Migrants and migration are relevant to all countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  These  are  global 
issues  with  economic  and  structural  imperatives.  The 
economic causes of migration, concentrations of wealth 
and dual labour markets benefit powerful interests and 
reinforce  power  structures  that  often  blame,  penalize 
and criminalize migrant workers who are caught in that 
web.  The  organizational  and  political  challenge  is  to 
overcome  those  biased  approaches  and  work  towards 
facilitating orderly and safe mobility, while recognizing 
that  greater  mobility  is  inevitable  in  the  twenty-first 
century.
12/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
Migrants are responsible persons who are trying to 
earn  a  living  and  provide  for  their  families.  Migrants 
should  be  aware  of  their  rights  and  be  protected  by 
States,  as  States  exercise  their  sovereign  right  to 
determine  who  enters,  leaves  or  remains  in  their 
territory.  The  root  causes  of  migration  need  to  be 
openly  discussed  and  addressed  so  that  migration 
becomes  a  matter  of  choice  rather  than  a  desperate 
necessity. International economic imbalances, poverty 
and  environmental  degradation,  the  absence  of  peace 
and security, human rights violations and weak judicial 
and democratic institutions are but some of the factors 
affecting migrants and international migration.
Dialogue  among  all  actors  and  agencies  and  the 
link  between  migration  and  development  need  to  be 
clearly  presented  and  openly  discussed  at  the  public 
and  policy-making  levels,  including  with  the  media 
and  civil  society.  Such  discussions  should  lead  us 
to  the  construction  of  lasting  solutions  based  on  an 
understanding  of  the  shared  problems  and  common 
goals, as well as coordinated policies and frameworks. 
The  positive  impact  of  migration  on  development 
hinges on orderly migration governance that, inter alia, 
protects human rights and migrants’ well-being. More 
focus  should  be  placed  on  the  human  development 
potential  of  migration,  including  the  potential  of 
improving  the  lives  of  migrants  and  their  families, 
as  well  as  migration’s  contribution  to  the  economic 
and  social  growth  and  the  development  of  countries. 
In  that  regard,  more  should  be  done  to  address  the 
negative public perceptions of migrants and to combat 
xenophobia and discrimination directed against them.
In  the  context  of  migration,  countries  of  origin 
and  destination  should  recognize 
their  role  and 
responsibility  in  providing  access  to  social  services, 
health  care,  education  and  cultural  identities.  That 
broad scope of assistance in migration and development 
dynamics  should  be  developed  to  provide  lasting, 
just  and  effective  national,  regional  and  international 
measures.
The  theme  “Identifying  concrete  measures  to 
strengthen  coherence  and  cooperation  at  all  levels, 
with a view to enhancing the benefits of international 
migration  for  migrants  and  countries  alike  and  its 
important  link  to  development,  while  reducing  its 
negative  implications”  opens  the  door  to  defining  the 
role of migration in development. It also promotes policy 
coherence and institutional development, including the 
factors in migration, into national development policies 
and  plans  and  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  It 
should offer an understanding of the opportunities and 
obstacles and ways to explore solutions.
I shall stop there. In the interests of time, I invite 
delegations  to  read  my  statement,  which  has  been 
distributed in the Hall.
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  The  latest  tragedy  near 
the  southern  Italian  island  of  Lampedusa  once  again 
underlines  how  critical  this  High-level  Dialogue  is 
and  how  much  international  action  against  human 
trafficking  is  overdue.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the vision he has laid out.
the  complex 
In  addressing 
Migration is one of the critical issues that were not 
properly factored into the framework of the Millennium 
Development Goals. That has to change, and the time is 
now. The puzzle must be addressed boldly, as has been 
said.  No  society  can  pretend  that  it  has  not  benefited 
from migration. The truth must be the basis for action.
interrelationship 
between migration and development, we should be firm 
and bold in both our individual and collective actions. 
First,  we  need  to  recognize  the  constructive  role  that 
migrants play in the development process of origin and 
destination countries. On balance, migration is a boon 
rather than a bane to the development of all, a fact on 
which  there  should  be  consensus.  It  therefore  follows 
that it should be a matter of self-interest for all to make 
sure that the human rights and fundamental freedoms 
of all migrants, regardless of their migration status, are 
respected at all times.
It  has  now  been  recognized  that  women  account 
for half of all international migrants at the global level. 
Most  of  them  are  subjected  to  abuse,  with  little  help 
coming  their  way.  In  formulating  global  migration 
policies, therefore, priority should be given to ensuring 
that the aspect of gender is given the serious attention 
it deserves.
With  regard  to  Africa,  many  of  our  migrants  live 
in different parts of the world in search of better living 
conditions.  Their  contributions  to  the  development 
processes  of  their  respective  countries  and  to  the 
continent  in  general  has  now  become  significant.  In 
many of those countries, the share of remittances in the 
gross domestic product has begun to rise. On the other 
hand, in many instances, there are reasons for concern 
about  the  loss  of  skilled  personnel  and  qualified 
professionals.  It  should  not  be  too  difficult,  given 
13-49787
13/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
goodwill, to find a formula whereby, without infringing 
on individual rights, the interests of countries of both 
origin  and  destination  could  be  accommodated,  thus 
enabling  migrants  to  play  a  role  in  the  development 
process  of  their  respective  countries.  We  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  for  its  efforts  in  that 
regard, as well as the Global Forum on Migration and 
Development and other member agencies of the Global 
Migration Group.
Now  that  we  have  embarked  on  a  process  of 
designing  the  next  generation  of  global  development 
goals,  we  ought  to  make  sure  that  the  significance  of 
migration for development is accorded due recognition. 
In other words, migration should be integrated, as the 
Secretary-General so rightly emphasized, into the new 
global  development  framework.  It  is  therefore  proper 
that  the  declaration  we  have  just  adopted  (resolution 
68/4) calls for such collective responsibility.
Mr. Reyes Rodríguez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): I 
have the honour to speak on behalf of the member States 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States (CELAC).
We welcome the holding of this second High-level 
Dialogue on Migration and Development, in accordance 
with  resolution  67/219.  We  are  confident  that  the 
outcome of the meeting will provide guidelines for the 
work of the United Nations on the issue of international 
migration  and  its  relation  to  development.  CELAC 
agrees with the importance of integrating the issue of 
international migration into the development agenda.
implications, 
In  an  increasingly  globalized  and  interconnected 
world, human migrations, in their diverse characteristics 
and 
should  be  appropriately  and 
systematically  addressed  by  every  State  and  by  the 
international  community  in  general,  making  use  of 
the  valuable  contributions  of  the  relevant  entities  and 
actors  at  every  level.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  all 
States, regardless of their status as countries of origin, 
transit  or  destination,  work  together  to  find  solutions 
to  the  challenges  that  international  migrations  pose 
today.  We  firmly  believe  that  the  most  appropriate 
framework for a comprehensive approach to migration 
and development is that provided by the United Nations, 
especially the General Assembly and the Economic and 
Social Council, since they are best suited for all States, 
in  full  equality,  to  synergistically  and  symmetrically 
express their perspectives and interests.
CELAC  is  of  the  view  that  we  should  discuss 
the  nexus  of  migration,  development  and  human 
rights.  Furthermore,  we  believe  that  facilitating  the 
regularization  of  migration  is  fundamental  to  the 
human  development  of  migrants,  their  families  and 
countries  of  destination,  considered  together,  and 
should be a central element in the deliberations. In that 
context,  CELAC  defends  migration  as  a  human  right 
and the recognition of migrants as persons with rights. 
In that sense, we believe that migrants should be at the 
centre of States’ policies on migration.
We should realize that it has been difficult to hold a 
formal, ongoing discussion of international migrations 
at the multilateral level, owing to the differing focuses 
of  current  policies.  Therefore,  this  is  a  forum  where 
States,  regardless  of  their  situation  as  a  countries  of 
origin,  transit  or  destination,  can  participate  on  an 
equal  footing.  That  is  why  we  defend  and  affirm  the 
significance of this meeting.
CELAC  acknowledges  the  significant  work  and 
technical  cooperation  provided  by  the  International 
Organization for Migration, the principal promoter of 
existing  regional  forums  for  discussing  the  topic  of 
migration.  We  also  acknowledge  the  efforts  of  States 
in  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development 
and their support for dialogues on the subject in every 
region.  However,  those  efforts  have  not  been  enough. 
The way they function should be reviewed, particularly 
with  regard  to  the  contributions  of  the  regions  with 
developing countries to the Global Forum.
policies 
a 
comprehensive  approach.  Human  mobility  across 
national borders affects many areas and policy scenarios. 
Among other factors, we should take into consideration 
the human rights of migrants and their families, States’ 
security  needs  and  efforts  to  combat  treatment  of 
and  trafficking  in  migrants  and  to  facilitate  growth 
and  development,  as  well  as  the  impact  of  migration 
on  highly  sensitive  areas  of  social  concern  such  as 
health  and  attention  to  the  most  vulnerable  groups. 
It  is  also  important  to  address  the  structural  causes 
of  international  migration  and  to  align  international 
economic policies with current development models.
International  migration 
require 
The members of CELAC recognize the importance 
of  helping  migrants  maintain  links  to  their  countries 
of  origin,  including  their  cultures,  languages  and 
traditions.  It 
the 
contributions  they  make  through  tourism,  investment 
to  highlight 
important 
is  also 
14/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
family 
and 
remittances,  among  other  activities. 
However, those cannot be seen as a substitute for foreign 
direct investment, official development assistance, debt 
relief or other public development policies, since they 
represent  private  financial  resources.  Member  States 
should  therefore  work  together  to  arrive  at  a  formula 
that does not affect migrants or States negatively.
The  contributions  of  migrants  to  host  countries’ 
social and economic development still do not receive the 
recognition they deserve. We reiterate our concern about 
the  continual  worsening  of  working  and  employment 
conditions  for  migrant  workers  and  their  families,  as 
well as their lack of access to fundamental rights, which 
has been aggravated by the current economic, financial 
and environmental crisis. It is important to recognize 
and  address  the  complex  circumstances  that  migrants 
confront on the road to their destination countries, as 
well  as  their  increasing  vulnerability  to  violations  of 
their  human  rights.  We  therefore  believe  it  necessary 
to  ensure  that  migration  is  well  ordered,  secured  and 
informed.
We 
the 
reaffirm 
importance  of  effectively 
protecting  and  promoting 
the  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms of migrants, especially women 
and children, regardless of their migratory status. That 
must be done in a comprehensive and balanced manner, 
while  recognizing  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of 
origin,  transit  and  destination  countries  and  avoiding 
approaches that may increase their vulnerability.
It is time to undertake concrete actions to protect 
migrant workers, primarily women, so as to ensure their 
protection  against  the  various  forms  of  exploitation 
and violence they face, and to secure effective means 
of  ensuring  respect  for  their  dignity,  fair  working 
conditions  and  productive  and  decent 
jobs,  and 
achieving their full integration into the labour force. We 
urge all States to ensure that human rights, especially 
of vulnerable groups, are promoted, protected and fully 
publicized.
While  we  recognize  that  Governments  have  the 
right  to  establish  and  implement  policies  to  regulate 
migration flows into and within their territories, CELAC 
regrets  the  adoption  of  regulations  or  provisions,  at 
whatever level of the Government, that criminalize the 
act  of  migration  and  criminalize  people  who  migrate 
with irregular migratory status. We reiterate the call to 
all Member States to end the detention of migrants who 
have not committed any crime and to unconditionally 
respect  their  dignity,  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.
I am sorry to have spoken more than a minute too 
long. The rest of the CELAC statement is available in 
the Hall.
I  conclude  by  reiterating  that  CELAC  stands 
ready to work together with other Member States and 
effectively participate in and contribute to appropriate 
initiatives  on  migration,  in  particular  international 
migration. We will continue to do so in a serious and 
constructive manner.
Mr.  Mosharraf  Hossain  (Bangladesh):  We  are 
delighted  to  note  a  wider  recognition  of  migration 
and  human  mobility  as  a  key  driver  and  enabler 
of  development  at  the  national  and  global  levels. 
We  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  including 
migration as an area for action in his report entitled “A 
life of dignity for all” (A/68/202).
Let  me  briefly  share  some  of  Bangaldesh’s 
perspective,  realities  on  the  ground  and  expectations. 
My detailed statement is being circulated.
Well over 8.5 million of our people live and work 
abroad.  The  majority  of  them  are  migrant  workers, 
especially  in  the  Middle  East  and  Asia.  Bangladesh 
has  emerged  as  a  key  player  in  the  global  migration 
process.  Over  the  past  three  decades,  we  have  been 
experimenting  with  various  modalities  for  governing 
migration  for  migrants’  well-being.  To  bring 
in 
greater  transparency  and  accountability,  to  bring 
down  the  cost  of  migration  and  to  reduce  abuse  of 
migrants,  Bangladesh  has  adopted  Government-to-
Government arrangements. We are experimenting with 
a  Government-to-Government  labour  mobility  model 
for recruiting Bangladeshi workers bound for Malaysia. 
It  has  drastically  brought  down  the  cost  of  migration 
and reduced abusive practices.
Let  me  pose  a  few  questions  that  need  to  be 
addressed.  The  world  of  2030  and  beyond  will  be 
fundamentally different, and what migrants can do to 
secure  a  stable,  safe,  healthier  and  productive  society 
in  the  world  beyond  2015  is  a  crucial  question.  Gaps 
in  collaboration  and  partnership  are  equally  critical. 
Partnerships between Government and non-government, 
Government  and  business,  origin  and  destination 
countries  —  these  must  be  innovative  and  forward-
looking. Let me flag a few issues for consideration at 
the High-level Dialogue.
13-49787
15/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
First, migration in its totality and in all development 
dimensions  has 
into  national 
development  discourses  and  planning  processes.  In 
Bangladesh,  we  have  already  developed  Vision  2021, 
the long-term perspective for Bangladesh to emerge as 
a middle-income country.
integrated 
to  be 
Secondly,  migration  is  all  about  an  individual’s 
freedom  and  choice.  In  some  cases,  it  is  a  question 
of  personal  survival.  The  securitization  of  migration, 
therefore, can no longer be optional for development or 
human security.
Thirdly, in an uncertain and often conflict-ridden 
world, the protection of migrant workers caught in crises 
must also be addressed. That is an area we still address 
through  ad  hoc  arrangements,  as,  for  instance,  in  the 
recent experience in Libya. In that regard, we value the 
contribution  made  by  the  International  Organization 
for Migration (IOM).
Fourthly, the private sector and civil society remain 
principal  stakeholders  in  migration  governance  and 
in  ensuring  safe  and  dignified  migration.  Optimal 
results and beneficial outcomes from migration can be 
achieved only if the State, the private sector and civil 
society act in concert.
Fifthly,  in  all  migration-governance  initiatives, 
migrants’ well-being should remain our utmost priority.
I  shall  now  address  a  few  aspects  that  Colombo 
Process members would like to emphasize for reflection 
at the High-level Dialogue.
First, 
factual  evidence  has  established 
that 
migration  has  a  positive  effect  on  many  areas  of 
development.  Today’s  globalized  world  benefits  not 
only from trade, capital and technology but also from 
information and ideas. Many destination countries have 
greatly benefited from the talent of migrants, including 
in diverse areas of economic importance to destination 
countries. We need to ensure that migration is included 
in national and sectoral development policies, as well as 
in poverty-reduction strategies and national adaptation 
action plans.
Secondly,  partnership  is  key  in  migration  and 
development  and,  eventually, 
for  equitable  and 
sustainable  development.  To  harness  that  potential, 
policy  coherence  at 
local,  national,  regional 
the 
and  global  levels  needs  to  be  strengthened  through 
cooperation  and  by  establishing  global  partnerships 
in the post-2015 framework. Partnerships at the global 
or  regional  levels  need  to  address  aspects  such  as 
the  recognition  of  skills,  the  matching  of  skills  and 
jobs,  and  facilitating  training  and  skills  development. 
Regional consultative processes, such as the Abu Dhabi 
Dialogue, can further deepen cooperation in this area.
Thirdly, we must ensure the protection of migrants 
in a holistic manner. Actions in origin countries need to 
be matched in destination States in terms of legislation, 
enforcement  measures, 
and 
awareness  measures.  Greater  openness  is  needed  to 
allow people to move across national boundaries.
information-sharing 
Fourthly, a key objective of the High-level Dialogue 
is to identify ways to enhance the benefits of migration 
for both origin and destination countries as well as for 
migrants.  The  fundamental  human  rights  of  migrants 
must be upheld to realize the full benefits of migration. 
Indeed,  all  aspects  of  labour  migration  that  impact 
the  dignity,  rights,  welfare  and  well-being  of  migrant 
workers  need  to  be  addressed.  All  stakeholders  must 
be  involved  in  ensuring  safe  and  regular  migration. 
Bilateral  and  regional  consultations  must  also  be 
sustained.
Finally, we value and deeply appreciate the continued 
support and contributions of IOM. We also believe that 
IOM’s past experience and expertise have the potential 
to contribute to global migration management. It would 
be important to focus on a paradigm that would set the 
scope for the essential mandate of IOM, facilitating its 
work within the framework of relations with the United 
Nations.
Since 2006, the High-level Dialogue on Migration 
and  Development  has  emerged  as  a  useful  forum  for 
Governments  to  discuss  opportunities  and  challenges 
in migration. We would like to emphasize the need for 
concrete  outcomes  towards  establishing  an  effective 
monetary  mechanism  from  the  Dialogue.  That  must 
be  our  contribution  to  the  betterment  of  the  lives  of 
migrants, allowing them a safe, orderly and dignified 
migration. We look forward to the developments over 
the next two days with expectations.
Mr. Zinsou (Benin) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
I would like to convey my appreciation to the President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session for 
organizing  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  Migration  and 
16/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
Development.  I  also  sincerely  welcome  the  eminent 
persons who have contributed to the dialogue.
working  conditions,  to  give  them  access  to  education 
and health services and to recognize their status.
I speak on behalf of the least developed countries 
(LDCs).
In the past few years, the phenomenon of migration 
has increased in scope, grown more complex and had 
greater  impact.  Factors  contributing  to  the  changing 
scope  of  the  problem  are  demographic  transition, 
economic  growth,  the  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
climate change and the deterioration of the environment. 
We  are  aware  of  the  role  played  by  factors  such  as 
endemic  poverty,  unemployment,  underemployment, 
the  lack  of  socioeconomic  prospects,  discrimination, 
marginalization and even social exclusion.
Migrants generate significant benefits for the host 
country and for the country of origin. A recent study 
by  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  found  that  migrant  workers  contributed 
more  in  terms  of  taxes  and  contributions  to  social 
security  programmes  than  they  received  in  terms  of 
individual  social  services  payments.  The  migration 
of highly skilled workers, also called the brain drain, 
causes  enormous  losses  in  human  capital  for  least 
developed  countries.  That  loss  could  considerably 
affect the provision of essential services, tax revenues 
and  the  growth  rate  of  certain  countries.  Migration 
can also generate pressure for an increase in salaries, 
causing inflation in the countries of origin.
Migration is a factor whose importance we cannot 
underestimate for LDCs in the context of globalization. 
The world has made significant progress in integrating 
peoples  under  the  momentum  of  globalization,  which 
forces the dismantlement of barriers. Opening borders 
has  been  limited  to  freeing  markets  for  goods  and 
capital.  The  integration  of  the  workforce  continues 
to  pose  colossal  challenges  related  to  the  negative 
discrimination that affects those workers.
There is a double standard that must be corrected 
by  making  renewed  efforts  to  harmonize  the  system 
of  the  flow  of  goods  and  persons.  Providing  services 
has  great  potential.  We  call  upon  the  international 
community  to  take  effective  measures  to  liberalize 
markets  for  the  free  flow  of  service  providers  under 
Mode 4 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services. 
That could also contribute to reducing fraud and human 
trafficking.  Efforts  should  be  made  to  eliminate  the 
exploitation and discrimination experienced by migrant 
workers,  to  treat  them  fairly,  to  give  them  decent 
According  to  the  Migrant  Workers  Convention, 
employers must pay all the recruitment fees for foreign 
workers,  including  the  unskilled.  We  should  form 
a  large  coalition  to  set  and  apply  initially  acceptable 
standards to receive migrants and to give them decent 
living conditions. That would have a positive effect on 
the well-being of those individuals.
While large foreign firms established in the LDCs 
benefit  from  very  generous  systems  for  transferring 
their profits to their countries of origin, migrant LDC 
workers must pay exorbitant fees for the transfer of their 
funds. Transaction costs are extremely high, especially 
from Africa and the Pacific, sometimes 12 per cent of 
the amount being transferred. According to forecasts, 
flows  of  funds  from  migrants  will  be  approximately 
$414  billion  dollars  in  2013  and  $514  billion  in  2016. 
That  provides  an  idea  of  the  volume  of  monies  spent 
on  transaction  costs.  We  must  facilitate  transfers  of 
migrants’ funds, because that would have considerable 
consequences for the countries of origin. It is up to the 
Governments  and  private  service  providers  to  work 
towards that end. Countries of destination should make 
provisions  for  the  transfer  of  funds  to  the  migrants’ 
country of origin without restrictions. The objective is 
to  reduce  the  average  from  10  per  cent  to  5  per  cent 
within five years; that objective has to be reaffirmed.
The  question  of  the  use  of  funds  transferred  by 
migrants  merits  particular  attention  as  well.  It  is 
important to ensure that funds are used for productive 
activities and for development. Countries of destination 
should  create  frameworks  for  economic  activities 
conducive  to  that.  Countries  of  origin  should  do 
likewise.  That  way,  diasporas  will  be  able  to  provide 
information and to work in the countries of destination 
to promote integration into the banking system of those 
sending and those receiving monies, thereby increasing 
their capacity to save and to make investments.
On  the  margins  of  the  fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on Least Developed Countries, which was 
held  in  Istanbul  from  9  to  13  May,  least  developed 
countries  signed  a  memorandum  of  understanding 
on  the  implementation  of  a  pilot  programme  in  the 
framework  of  the  establishment  of  a  body  to  monitor 
the  funds  transferred  by  migrants  from  LDCs.  That 
pilot  programme  is  intended  to  collect,  analyse  and 
disseminate data on the transfer of migrants’ funds in 
13-49787
17/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
four pilot countries. The studies have been carried out 
and allow us to define the outlines of that monitoring 
body.  It  is  important  that  the  initiative  continues  to 
benefit  from  assistance  required  by  its  development 
partners in order to take shape. I would like to take this 
opportunity  to  express  the  appreciation  of  the  LDCs 
group to the Government of Turkey, which provided a 
generous grant for launching the monitoring body.
Diaspora  networks  also  serve  as  channels  for 
transmitting  knowledge,  information  and  know-how 
in two directions between the countries of destination 
and  those  of  origin.  Researchers,  scientific  experts 
and  technological  experts  living  abroad  made  large 
contributions  to  the  economic  miracles  realized  by  a 
number of countries in the second half of the twentieth 
century.  That  phenomenon  has  transformed  the  brain 
drain generated by migration into a brain gain. Given 
the  large  number  of  qualified  people  from  LDCs 
living  abroad,  it  is  important  to  set  up  frameworks 
for  agreement  with  countries  of  destination  to  enable 
diasporas  to  further  contribute  to  the  development  of 
LDCs,  including  through  business  and  investments. 
That  could  involve  the  issuance  of  bonds  and  the 
development  of  competency-transfer  programmes. 
In    that  context,  particular  attention  must  be  paid  to 
mobilizing  the  competencies  and  the  savings  of  the  
diaspora  so  as  to  finance  productive  investments.  We 
thank  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development for devoting its most recent LDC session 
to that issue.
Migration should be considered from a humanistic 
and humanitarian standpoint, with a view to improving 
the precarious living conditions of millions of migrants. 
Global partnerships are best positioned to promote joint 
measures  towards  that  objective.  The  issue  should  be 
integrated  into  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
and the sustainable development goals, with a view to 
promoting the evolution of a world without borders in 
which all of humankind will be able to fully benefit from 
mobility  and  face  the  ongoing  challenges.  Goals  and 
targets should be set to reduce the costs of migration, 
including  recruitment,  visas  and  passports,  residence 
permits,  health 
insurance,  children’s  education, 
remittances and integrating the production capacities of 
LDCs  to  promote  development.  Genuine  coordination 
at the international, regional and subregional levels is 
therefore necessary.
Mr. Romodanovsky (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian): According to United Nations data, the Russian 
legislation 
is 
Federation  is  the  second  most  popular  destination  for 
migrants, owing largely to some of the consequences of 
the fall of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. On 
a temporary or ongoing basis, about 11 million foreign 
nationals and stateless persons are in Russia. Russia’s 
general course of action is determined by its migration 
policy. Its main priority is the protection of the rights 
and  freedoms  of  both  Russians  and  foreign  nationals 
who reside in Russia.
Our  migration 
continuously 
undergoing  improvement.  We  have  developed  and 
continue  to  modernize  immigration  mechanisms  to 
attract qualified specialists, for whom a broad array of 
preferences and privileges, including tax benefits, have 
been introduced. There are specific legal documents for 
less-qualified migrants, and there is a particular focus on 
developing programmes to assist migrants in adapting 
and  integrating.  We  fully  honour  our  humanitarian 
obligations on international protection and eliminating 
statelessness.  The  institute  for  readmission  is  also 
up  and  running.  As  a  result  of  those  and  many  other 
measures,  the  number  of  legally  working  foreign 
nationals  has  doubled  over  the  past  three  years,  with 
a resulting significant decline in illegal immigration.
We have found a way to replace the administrative 
detention  of  illegal  migrants.  The  Secretary-General 
spoke  about  that.  New  information  technologies  have 
led  to  full  knowledge  of  the  names  of  all  foreign 
nationals  who  have  exceeded  the  authorized  duration 
of their stay. My country continues to work to promote 
greater  accountability  through  the  management  of 
illegal  migration  flows.  In  that  context,  the  burden 
of  responsibility  falls  first  and  foremost  on  unethical 
employers.
I  can  say  with  certainty  that  illegal  migrants 
represent the most vulnerable and defenceless members 
of society in States of destination. Many illegal migrants 
become victims of crime. In spite of the steps already 
taken, including humanitarian measures, there remains 
an enormous amount of work to be done to minimize 
the problem of illegal migration. I believe that dealing 
with the problem should be of interest to both States of 
destination and States of origin.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  emphasize  that  no  single 
State  is  in  a  position  to  respond  alone  to  today’s 
immigration challenges. An ongoing dialogue focused 
on regional specificities is necessary. Such cooperation 
continues to develop among the member States of the 
18/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
Commonwealth of Independent States. Since 2007, the 
Russian Federation has been carrying out active work 
together with our colleagues as part of the council of 
heads  of  migration  services  of  member  States  of  the 
Commonwealth. That platform has visibly demonstrated 
its  success  as  an  effective  cooperation  mechanism. 
In  fact,  the  Russian  Federation,  with  its  partners,  is 
forming a labour confederation; individual components 
have already been successfully implemented as part of 
the customs union and continuing Eurasian integration. 
The  joint  statement  on  behalf  of  the  States  parties  of 
Commonwealth, circulated at the Dialogue by its Chair 
from the Republic of Belarus, presents a detailed view 
of Commonwealth accomplishments — I recommend it 
to the Assembly.
Russia  is  continuing  its  active  participation  in 
the  work  of  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development.  We  are  strengthening  cooperation  with 
various  United  Nations  agencies  and  international 
organizations.  We  are  convinced  that  the  dialogue 
should  always  be  people-centred.  Unconditional 
respect  for  people’s  rights  and  freedoms  is  enshrined 
in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  is 
a  core  principle  of  Russia’s  policy.  We  welcome  the 
future work of the Global Forum and the dialogue as an 
important platform for cooperation on migration issues 
and thank the organizers for their efforts.
Ms. Iivula-Ithana (Namibia): At the outset, let me 
join others in thanking the President for organizing the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development. The rise in global mobility, the growing 
complexity  of  migratory  patterns  and  the  impact  of 
such  movements  on  development  have  all  contributed 
to  international  migration  becoming  a  priority  of  the 
international community.
The  theme  of  this  high-level  event,  “Identifying 
concrete  measures 
to  strengthen  coherence  and 
cooperation at all levels, with a view to enhancing the 
benefits  of  international  migration  for  migrants  and 
countries alike and its important links to development, 
while reducing its negative implications”, provides an 
opportunity  for  us  to  reflect  on  measures  to  review 
current policy options and to seek ways to enhance our 
resolve  in  addressing  the  plight  of  migrants.  Namibia 
attaches  great  importance  to  this  Dialogue,  since  it 
provides  an  opportunity  to  collectively  take  stock  of 
our  achievements  since  the  most  recent  High-level 
Dialogue, in 2006. However, challenges still remain, and 
we should recommit ourselves to addressing them. The 
event also provides an opportunity for all stakeholders 
to  work  towards  a  new  global  agenda  and  identify 
measures to help promote the role of migrants as agents 
of development and make migration an integral part of 
the global development agenda beyond 2015.
One important outcome of the 2012 United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development was that we, 
as  Member  States,  agreed  to  mainstream  migration 
in  our  development  strategies.  We  also  emphasized 
the  protection  of  the  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  of  migrants  to  protect  them  from  potential 
violence and abuse.
Namibia  has  made  significant  strides  in  updating 
the laws that govern migration, particularly with regard 
to the protection of the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of all migrants. We are engaged in a process 
of  revamping  our  migration  policies  with  a  special 
emphasis on key migration management areas, such as 
migration and development, facilitation and regulation. 
We have also created an interministerial coordination 
committee  on  migration  management,  consisting  of 
key  State  and  non-State  actors,  which  is  responsible 
for  policy  development.  Those  measures  are  aimed 
at  providing  us  with  a  platform  to  address  challenges 
related to migration and development. Our effort in that 
regard is driven by the realization that the link between 
migration  and  development  has  the  potential  to  turn 
economies  around.  Sending,  transit  and  receiving 
States  have  all  recognized  that  fact,  hence  the  debate 
on the subject has become very critical.
International  migration  is  a  global  phenomenon 
that is growing in scope, complexity and impact. Today, 
virtually all countries in the world are simultaneously 
countries  of  destination,  origin  and 
for 
international  migrants.  Traditional  migration  patterns 
are complemented by new migratory flows, fuelled by 
changing economic, demographic, political and social 
conditions.  Because  of  the  contribution  it  makes  to 
development,  migration  has  also  become  a  pressing 
policy priority for every State.
transit 
Namibia reiterates that, to ensure equity, security 
and human dignity, Member States should pursue labour 
migration  policies  that  include  measures  to  prevent 
abusive practices and promote decent employment for 
migrants.  Such  policies,  legislation  and  programmes 
should not overlook the fact that women and children 
migrants  often  find  themselves  in  irregular  situations 
and  in  unregulated  sectors  of  the  economy,  or  the 
victims of traffickers or smugglers, and thus subject to 
13-49787
19/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
many forms of violence and abuse. We need to put in 
place measures to combat such evils while at the same 
time facilitating the flow of lawful migrants.
The countries of origin from which those workers 
come  and  those  in  which  they  work  must  share  the 
responsibility  of  lessening  the  burden  on  them  by 
protecting  and  promoting  their  rights.  That  can  be 
done  by  enhancing  the  supervision  and  regulation 
of  international  labour  migration  and  engaging  in 
international  cooperation  in  the  interest  of  promoting 
migrants’  rights  and  preventing  abusive  conditions. 
Development  gains  from  migration  for  the  countries 
involved  and  the  protection  of  the  rights  of  migrant 
workers  are  inseparable.  Such  development  gains  are 
significant  not  only  for  the  origin  countries,  but  also 
for  the  destination  countries  where  migrant  workers 
provide their labour.
International  migration  will  remain  an  important 
component of the United Nations development agenda. 
Now, as we ponder the post-2015 development agenda 
and the formulation of sustainable development goals, 
we should ensure that international migration is fully 
mainstreamed into them. Moreover, while recognizing 
that  migrants  play  an  important  role  in  development, 
we must encourage our nationals to use lawful channels 
of  migration  so  that  the  risks  of  exploitation  and 
trafficking are minimized.
Mr. Bouguerra (Algeria) (spoke in French): At the 
outset, allow me to begin by associating my delegation 
with the statement made by the representative of Fiji on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
This  discussion  of  the  issue  of  migration  and  its 
links to development gives us an additional opportunity 
to  deepen  the  dialogue  that  began  in  2006  and 
consider new developments. The issue is of particular 
importance  in  view  of  the  consultations  on  the  post-
2015 development agenda. The World Migration Report 
2009-2011  shows  that  migration  is  not  exclusively  a 
North-South  phenomenon,  but  one  that  also  flows 
South-South,  and,  with  the  new  migration  dynamic, 
one  that  will,  in  addition,  affect  the  countries  of  the 
North.
It is universally acknowledged that migrant workers 
contribute  to  the  economic  growth  of  the  countries 
where they are employed, given the labour shortages in 
those  countries.  Similarly,  migrants’  remittances  help 
raise the living standards of their families, and therefore 
contribute  to  the  fight  against  poverty.  However,  the 
migration  of  highly  skilled  workers  —  or  the  “brain 
drain”  —  has  a  negative  impact  on  the  development 
of  many  countries  of  the  South.  Selective  migration 
policies accentuate that phenomenon. Moreover, African 
countries face other forms of migration constraints on 
account of conflicts and natural disasters, in particular 
drought and desertification.
As  a  country  of  origin,  transit  and  destination, 
Algeria,  which  hosted  Africa’s  regional  meeting  on 
migration  and  development  in  2006,  reaffirms  its 
commitment to work in good faith on the transnational 
issue  of  migration.  The  free  movement  of  individuals 
should  be  among  our  priorities,  since  that  is  how  the 
universal yet unique nature of the respective histories, 
cultures and civilizations that have enriched humankind 
has been affirmed.
The  growing  interdependence  of  our  globalized 
world cannot accommodate the gulf that, in our region, 
separates the northern shores of the Mediterranean and 
their fortresses of prosperity from the southern shores 
and  their  poverty.  Credible  alternatives  are  needed  to 
put  an  end  to  selective  migration  policies,  especially 
those advocating absolute security, the limits of which 
are now obvious. In that regard, the urgently needed and 
appropriate  response  to  the  flows  of  illegal  migrants, 
many of whom Algeria welcomes on its soil, is to work 
together to create the conditions for shared prosperity.
Algeria  calls  for  the  protection  of  the  rights  of 
migrant  communities  abroad  as  an  integral  part  of 
human  rights,  and  for  migrants’  protection  from 
discrimination  and  acts  of  racism  and  xenophobia. 
Efforts  must  also  be  made  to  quell  Islamophobia  and 
the extremism that uses Islam as a tool and distorts its 
universal values and its tolerance.
The multidisciplinary nature of migration, together 
with  the  contrasting  interests  of  countries  of  origin, 
transit and destination, should lead us to develop global 
strategies  to  manage  migration.  Those  can  be  greatly 
enhanced  by 
international 
instruments, in particular the International Convention 
on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers 
and Members of Their Families and the United Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and its Protocols.
implementation  of 
the 
Organized  and  coordinated  migration  is  within 
reach. Working together, we can join our efforts at the 
regional and international levels to achieve our common 
goal  within  the  framework  of  a  long-term  strategy 
20/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
articulated  around  the  2015  Millennium  Development 
Goals.
Mr.  Mondlane  (Mozambique):  Allow  me  to  join 
previous speakers in expressing our sincere appreciation 
to the President of the General Assembly for the diligent 
way  he  is  leading  the  work  of  this  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
an event of great importance in our efforts to develop 
mechanisms for managing migration on a global scale.
As  a  country  with  a  long  migration  history, 
and  as  a  source  of,  transit  country  for  and  recipient 
country  of  migrants,  Mozambique  is  committed  to 
strengthening  cooperation  at  all  levels  to  ensure  a 
balanced management of migration flows, taking into 
consideration the existing policies and legal frameworks. 
Mozambique,  as  a  source  of  migrant  workers,  has  its 
citizens  working  in  various  countries,  where  they  are 
a contributing factor to growth and development and a 
significant source of revenue for their own families and 
their country of origin.
The  first  High-level  Dialogue  recognized  that 
migration was a social phenomenon intrinsic to human 
nature and motivated by various dynamics of a cultural, 
political, economic and environmental nature.
Mozambique  is  part  of  a  regional  economic 
community, 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community (SADC), the development history of which 
has been influenced by the movement of people through 
various  member  States  and  motivated  by,  among 
other  things,  social,  security  and  economic  reasons. 
Therefore, the geographic contiguity of SADC member 
States,  their  historical,  sociocultural  and  linguistic 
ties  and  their  interdependence  and  complementarities 
highlight the fact that migration is an inevitable dynamic 
in  the  process  of  enhancing  our  regional  economic 
integration.  In  that  regard,  our  approach  to  migration 
issues  is  aimed  at  consolidating  and  enhancing  the 
pillars  of  regional  integration  processes  enshrined  in 
the SADC Treaty through increased harmonization of 
policies  and  strategies  for  the  better  management  of 
migration as a factor contributing to the development 
of our countries.
Guided  by  those  principles,  we  have  put  in  place 
political  and  legal  frameworks  on  labour  migration 
based  on,  among  other  things,  the  SADC  Treaty,  the 
Protocol on Labour and the Protocol on the Facilitation 
of  Movement  of  Persons.  Those  regional  frameworks 
take  into  consideration  the  African  Common  Position 
on  Migration  and  Development,  which  creates  the 
necessary  enabling  environment  for  integrating  and 
implementing  migration  issues  in  national,  regional 
and continental development agendas.
The Global Forum on Migration and Development, 
established  as  a  follow-up  mechanism  to  the  first 
United Nations High-level Dialogue on Migration and 
Development, has been considered a valuable platform 
for  streamlining  the  debate  on  policies  and  strategies 
related  to  the  management  of  labour  migration  and  a 
way  to  further  align  States’  positions.  In  that  regard, 
one  of  the  most  important  aspects  to  be  highlighted 
is  the  acknowledgement  that,  notwithstanding  its  role 
in  and  contribution  to  development,  international 
migration poses complex challenges resulting from the 
dynamics of an increasingly globalized world.
The challenges that have been at the centre of our 
concerns  are  related  to  the  need  for  better  protection 
mechanisms for the rights of migrant workers and their 
families,  including  remittance  transfers,  health  care 
and safety at work. In the same vein, the management 
of  migration  raises  concerns  related  to  the  need  to 
ensure  the  necessary  balance  between  development 
and national, subregional, regional and global security, 
considering the fact that the destabilizing activities of 
organized  criminal  groups,  including  terrorists,  are 
increasingly  undermining  national  borders  and  our 
security architecture.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate 
the 
international  community  to  continue  to  exert  its  best 
efforts to strengthen bilateral, regional and multilateral 
cooperation in order to promote legal, safe and orderly 
migration.
the  call  for 
Mr.  Mitchell  (Bahamas):  I  wish,  first  of  all,  to 
express  our  deep  sorrow,  in  the  Commonwealth  of 
the  Bahamas,  regarding  the  death  of  those  migrants 
whom we read about in the news just this morning. It 
reinforces the importance of this High-level Dialogue 
that we are holding today.
Last Saturday, the Prime Minister of the Bahamas 
spoke  in  the  general  debate  (see  A/68/PV.19)  and  put 
migration  on  the  agenda.  It  is  an  issue  that  is  front 
and centre for the Bahamas. It has the potential, if not 
carefully managed, to destabilize all that we are seeking 
to create: the best little country in the world. We sit in 
the middle of a number of countries that are sources of 
illegal migration to us, notwithstanding the best efforts 
of all of the Governments concerned: Haiti to the south 
13-49787
21/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
of us and Cuba to the west of us. The country to which 
migrants go is the United States.
issues. Our future, our survival and our identity depend 
on it.
The Bahamas therefore often finds itself in a vortex 
that is not of its own making but the consequences of 
which we often have to live with and withstand, and we 
are often the object of forces and policies that affect us 
but that we are powerless to control.
This High-level Dialogue is welcome as yet another 
opportunity to ensure that our friends around the world 
are aware of the serious consequences that we face from 
illegal migration. The Dialogue is therefore important 
to  us  first  and  foremost  as  a  means  of  stopping 
undocumented  illegal  migration  to  the  Bahamas.  We 
have  good  relations  with  all  Governments  around  us. 
Governments  are,  however,  sometimes  undermined 
by  forces  beyond  their  control  —  criminal  elements, 
ideologies  and  policies  that  run  counter  to  common 
sense,  and  the  dictates  of  bad  economies.  What  we 
know, however, is that if we have the will to stop illegal 
migration, we can. We can do so by ensuring that there 
is cooperation against trafficking and smuggling; that 
we reject ideology and adopt common sense; and that 
we work together to solve the economic problems of our 
countries and region.
The  Bahamas  endorses 
the  views  contained 
in  a  statement  that  was  delivered  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean  Community  region  here  at  the  United 
Nations  regarding  important  issues  that  must  inform 
any efforts to elaborate the post-2015 agenda, including 
the  development  of  sustainable  development  goals, 
targets and indicators: first, addressing the root causes 
of migration, so that migration is by choice and not by 
necessity;  secondly,  combating  the  trafficking  and/or 
smuggling  of  migrants;  thirdly,  protecting  migrants 
against  human  rights  abuses,  racism,  ethnocentrism 
and  xenophobia;  fourthly,  improving  data,  especially 
disaggregated  data,  on 
international  migration, 
including  forced  migration;  fifthly,  facilitating  the 
flow  and  use  of  remittances  to  support  development; 
and,  finally,  strengthening  dialogue  and  cooperation 
between countries of origin, transit and destination.
The  preparatory  work  on  the  topic  makes  it 
clear  that  no  sustainable  solutions  can  be  achieved 
unless  the  aforementioned  imperatives  are  adopted. 
We  are  committed  to  working  with  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the 
International  Organization  for  Migration,  the  region 
and  the  world  at  large  to  help  resolve  such  migration 
The  Bahamas  would  also  like  to  propose  a  final 
outcome  from  this  High-level  Dialogue,  namely,  the 
establishment of a permanent forum on migration and 
development.  And  in  conclusion,  the  Dialogue  should 
guarantee that the Bahamas will become not a casualty 
of  migration  but  rather  a  beneficiary  of  documented, 
sustainable development.
Mr. Batshu (Botswana): At the outset, I would like 
to  join  other  delegations  in  welcoming  the  convening 
of  this  High-level  Dialogue.  As  a  small  developing 
country  faced  with  many  competing  needs,  priorities 
and  development  challenges,  Botswana  attaches  great 
importance to the issues of migration.
Migration  is  a  complex  phenomenon  common 
to  all  countries  and  regions,  whether  they  are  places 
of  origin,  transit  or  final  destination.  At  the  heart  of 
the  problem  we  find  human  beings,  who  migrate  for 
various  reasons.  Since  the  adoption,  in  1990,  of  the 
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights 
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families 
and  of  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  in  1994, 
the issue of migration remains one of the key challenges 
facing  the  world  today,  with  economic,  cultural  and 
social  implications.  We  recognize  that  significant 
progress  has  been  made  since  the  adoption  of  the 
Conference Programme of Action. But although much 
has been achieved, Botswana believes that more needs 
to  be  done  to  provide  a  comprehensive  solution  and 
response  to  the  challenges  of  international  migration 
and  development.  We  believe  that  this  High-level 
Dialogue  is  a  timely  and  useful  forum  for  expanding 
the  debate  and  consultations  on  the  vital  issue  in 
question.  The  Dialogue  also  comes  at  an  opportune 
time, as the international community moves beyond the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  towards  a  post-
2015 development agenda.
Botswana  has  a  rich  migration  history.  Before 
independence, our people crossed international borders, 
especially to neighbouring countries, mainly in search 
of employment. The income earned by migrant workers 
was  used  chiefly  to  support  their  immediate  and 
extended families at home at a time when the country 
was  classified  as  among  the  poorest  in  the  world.  In 
the post-independence period, Botswana has witnessed 
both the continuation of outbound migratory movement 
22/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
and a significant rise in the number of migrants coming 
into  the  country.  Over  the  years,  however,  we  have 
seen  changes  in  demographic  trends  and  dynamics. 
Today Botswana has become a net receiver of migrants 
attracted by positive economic indicators in successive 
decades.
Botswana  continues  to  benefit  from  regulated 
migration,  both  outbound  and  inbound.  Many  of  the 
migrant  workers  coming  into  the  country  provide 
highly  specialized  services  in  areas  of  economic  and 
social  development,  such  as  education,  health  and 
engineering. Conversely, the country continues to deal 
with the challenge of the emigration of highly skilled 
workers — the “brain drain” — as well as with irregular 
migration,  which  negatively  affects  the  provision  of 
basic  services.  While  we  recognize  that  international 
migration  can  be  a  positive  force  for  development  in 
countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination,  we  are 
also  mindful  of  the  challenges  that  many  countries, 
especially in the developing world, continue to face in 
managing  international  migration.  Botswana  believes 
that  a  balanced  approach  is  needed  in  seeking  ways 
and means to maximize the benefits of migration and 
minimize its negative impact. To that end, we remain 
open and committed to learning from other countries’ 
best  practices  and  experiences.  I  would  also  like  to 
stress that international migration should be addressed 
not merely from an economic point of view but through 
a  more  holistic  approach  that  fully  integrates  human-
rights and gender-equality perspectives.
therefore 
importance  of 
As human mobility continues to increase, we share 
the  view  that  no  country  can  manage  international 
migration  alone.  Botswana 
recognizes 
the 
international  cooperation  and 
partnerships  on  migration  matters.  In  that  regard,  we 
continue  to  work  closely  with  partners  such  as  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration  in  various 
areas,  which  include  training  immigration  and  law-
enforcement  officers  on  border  management  and 
procedures.
Lastly,  in  view  of  the  ongoing  discussions  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda,  we  note  the  emphasis 
placed on the role of migration and its contribution to 
social,  cultural,  political  and  economic  development, 
as  well  as  the  importance  of  integrating  population 
dynamics into a future development framework. In that 
regard, we believe that the outcome of this High-level 
Dialogue  will  make  an  important  contribution  to  the 
discussions on the post-2015 development agenda.
to 
I  wish  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana’s 
international 
commitment 
community’s  efforts 
international 
migration issues continue to receive priority attention 
at the global level.
supporting 
to  ensure 
the 
that 
Mr.  Abba  Moro  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of  the 
delegation of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I would 
like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
convening  this  important  meeting.  The  timing  of  this 
meeting is apt, given the ongoing global discourse on 
the post-2015 development agenda and the potential that 
migration  presents  for  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development goals.
Nigeria associates itself with the statement delivered 
by  the  Minister  for  Defence,  National  Security  and 
Immigration  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China.
Nigeria  believes  that  a  discussion  on  the  nexus 
international  migration  and  development 
between 
would  assist  the  global  community  in  addressing  the 
multifaceted challenges faced by migrants at the points 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  migration  is  a  key  factor  in  the  development  of 
countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  That  has 
been  amplified  by  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
High-level Panel of Eminent Persons on the post-2015 
development  agenda,  which  clearly  placed  poverty 
eradication  and  development  within  the  context  of 
human rights.
the  National  Assembly 
Nigeria  emphasizes  the  need  for  coherence  in 
through  a  comprehensive 
migration  governance 
framework in order to ensure a coordinated and holistic 
approach to the challenges encountered. In that regard, 
Nigeria has developed a national policy on migration, 
which is awaiting endorsement by the Federal Executive 
Council.  Furthermore, 
is 
considering a bill to establish a diaspora commission. 
Similarly,  Nigeria  stresses  the  need  for  national 
authorities  to  develop  migration-data  management 
strategies,  because  it  is  on  the  basis  of  evidence  and 
statistics that migration programmes can be planned to 
be more responsive to emerging trends and contextual 
issues. In that regard, Nigeria has concluded a strategy 
for a common template for migration-data management 
that has been validated by stakeholders, including State 
and non-State actors. Nigeria therefore emphasizes the 
need  to  establish  further  intergovernmental  platforms 
for  frequent  dialogue  on  migration  as  strategies  for 
13-49787
23/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
raising  global  awareness  about  the  benefits  of  an 
effectively managed migration system and its potential 
for development.
Our  Government  has  developed  a  process  of 
continuous engagement among Government institutions 
and  civil  society  organizations  in  a  periodic  national 
migration  discourse  that  is  aimed  at  creating  the 
conditions  required  for  safe,  predictable  and  regular 
migration.
Migration  has  been  an  integral  part  of  human 
history and progress. It has also proved to be a vehicle 
for social reconfiguration within the context of human 
capital development. Migration provides social benefits 
for  migrant  households  in  areas  such  as  health  care, 
education  and  technological  advancement.  Promoting 
safe  and  regular  migration,  therefore,  should  be  an 
important  focus  of  this  Dialogue  by  creating  more 
flexible channels for resource exchange.
In  2012,  Nigeria  was  ranked  the  fifth-largest 
recipient  of  remittances  through  the  banking  sector. 
The  amount  would  be  higher  if  informal  remittances 
were  taken  into  account.  That  figure  amounted  to 
$20.5  billion  in  2012,  second  to  exports  as  a  source 
of  foreign-exchange  inflow  and  representing  8.1  per 
cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product.  The  challenge 
for  Nigeria  is  to  design  and  establish  mechanisms  to 
encourage remitters to channel some of those resources 
into investments that would benefit some of the critical 
areas  of  unmet  development  needs.  Nigeria  therefore 
calls for a global partnership in that regard.
One  vital  concern  that  deserves  the  immediate 
attention  of  the  global  community  is  the  impact  of 
climate change and terrorism on migration. In Nigeria 
and  the  greater  Sahel  region,  cases  of  floods  and 
drought  in  recent  times  have  resulted  in  increased 
numbers  of  internally  displaced  persons  and  huge 
economic losses. We are therefore of the view that any 
discussion  on  migration  must  take  into  account  the 
importance of reducing greenhouse emissions and other 
parts of the carbon footprint, while acknowledging that 
severe changes in the climate will increase internal and 
external  migration,  thereby  posing  substantial  threats 
to the security of States.
There  have  been  numerous  cases  of  deportation 
of migrants worldwide without consideration for their 
human  rights.  The  Government  of  Nigeria  stresses 
that  migrants,  irrespective  of  their  migratory  status, 
should  be  treated  humanely  and  their  dignity  should 
be 
respected.  We  condemn  acts,  manifestations 
and  expressions  of  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  related  intolerance  against  migrants 
and  the  stereotypes  applied  to  them,  including  on 
the  basis  of  religion  or  belief.  In  that  regard,  Nigeria 
recommends that, while migrant smuggling and human 
trafficking  must  be  addressed  in  a  comprehensive 
way, impunity must also be reduced by the enactment 
of  national  legislation  and  the  strengthening  of  law-
enforcement  efforts  at  the  subregional,  regional  and 
international levels.
In  our  national  efforts 
to  provide  sufficient 
information  to  prospective  migrants  and  encourage 
safe  and  regular  migration,  the  Government  is  giving 
priority  to  the  establishment  of  a  migrant  resource 
centre.  Nigeria  is  also  providing  support  to  the 
“passport to safe migration” project being implemented 
in  collaboration  with  the  Economic  Community  of 
West African States Commission and the support of the 
Spanish Government. Migration is being given priority 
attention  by  the  Government  in  view  of  the  high 
incidence  of  deportation  of  Nigerians.  Consequently, 
measures  are  being  adopted  to  institutionalize  the 
assisted voluntary return and reintegration programme 
so as to better provide settlement services to returned 
migrants, humanitarian entrants and refugees. We are 
also  working  to  improve  access  to  services,  address 
special  settlement  needs  and  develop  the  skills  and 
confidence of returned migrants.
Finally,  Nigeria  wishes  to  state  that  migration  is 
a  natural  phenomenon  that,  if  managed  properly,  has 
abundant  potential  for  the  exponential  development 
of countries of origin, transit and destination. Nigeria 
affirms  that  migration  is  a  veritable  tool  for  the 
eradication of poverty. We therefore support the call for 
its inclusion in the post-2015 development agenda.
Mr. Sonko (Gambia): The Republic of the Gambia 
sees migration as a phenomenon that affects developed 
as  well  as  developing  countries.  Its  implications, 
negative  and  positive,  transcend  the  borders  of  any 
one  nation,  as  every  country  in  the  world  is  either  a 
country  of  origin,  of  transit  or  of  destination.  The 
Gambia is therefore cognizant of the integral role that 
intraregional  migration  plays  towards  reaching  its 
development goals. The Gambia hosts many nationals 
from  countries  in  its  subregion  and  beyond.  Those 
migrants  have  spurred  development  in  many  spheres, 
serving as a catalyst.
24/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
If we delve further into this phenomenon, we can 
conclude that migration is rewarding to people coming 
from countries where the general economic situation is 
worse than that in the receiving country. In the case of 
the Gambia, both unskilled and highly skilled migrants 
aged between 20 and 30 years make up a workforce that 
serves an attractive basis for further investment.
The Gambia furthermore recognizes that migration 
is not devoid of challenges. There is, in the first place, 
the reality of irregular migration, which often involves 
our young men and women endangering their lives in 
dilapidated boats on the high seas and during long treks 
across the desert. In many cases, such daring ventures 
are fatal.
Meanwhile,  all 
the  migration  restrictions 
in 
advanced 
industrialized  economies  have  provided 
further impetus for this new trend. While we all strive 
to promote free trade and the free movement of people, 
most developed countries continue to place restrictions 
on the movement of people.
The  Gambia  shares  the  concern  of  developing 
countries  that  essential  skills  for  the  development  of 
our  region  and  the  continent  have  been  lost,  further 
weakening  the  already  inadequate  capacity  to  meet 
our development challenges. Many parts, if not all, of 
the  continent  are  affected  by  a  shortage  of  qualified 
human resources, resulting in part from the large-scale 
departure of our professionals and university graduates.
Thousands  of  African  professionals,  including 
medical  doctors,  nurses,  accountants,  engineers  and 
managers,  leave  our  shores  each  year.  While  those 
movements may have some limited beneficial effects in 
developing countries, this “brain drain” is a handicap 
for  sustainable  development.  We  acknowledge  that 
migration  is  an  agent  of  development,  but  we  cannot 
ignore  the  downside  of  migration  and  the  problem 
of  the  brain  drain.  The  migration  of  skilled  workers, 
together with the scarcity of qualified health personnel, 
engineers  and  so  forth,  highlights  one  of  the  biggest 
obstacles to our achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals in the health, education and agricultural sectors.
We  are  concerned  about  the  failure  of  many  rich 
countries to develop their own human resources and their 
preference  to  instead  recruit  staff  at  the  international 
level.  That  trend  affects  developing  countries,  which 
invest  a  great  deal  to  train  their  nationals,  only  to 
lose  them  to  rich  countries.  The  migration  of  such 
skilled  people  therefore  creates  a  paradox  of  reverse 
development.  Furthermore,  the  resultant  brain  drain 
heightens the dependence of developing economies by 
compelling us to resort to spending huge resources on 
foreign expertise in many areas.
The  Gambia  acknowledges  that  the  key  to  a 
prosperous  country  is  in  the  hands  of  the  young 
generation.  The  young  constitute  a  major  component 
of the country’s human capital. If they are effectively 
utilized  through  gainful  employment,  they  will  be 
the  dynamic  drivers  of  poverty-reduction  efforts 
through long-term economic growth that creates more 
employment.
the 
International  Organization 
The  Gambia  collaborates  with  other  countries, 
civil  society  organizations  and  development  partners, 
especially 
for 
Migration  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  in  addressing  illegal 
migration.  Furthermore,  migration  and  development 
have  been  mainstreamed  in  our  national  development 
agenda. The Gambia has a coherent poverty-reduction 
strategy  anchored  in  the  programme  for  accelerated 
growth  and  employment  2012-2015,  which  is  the 
country’s development blueprint.
Another  policy  initiative  of  the  Government  is 
the  priority  employment  programme,  whose  overall 
objective  is  to  create  an  enabling  environment  for 
employment  creation  in  order  to  develop  a  skilled, 
versatile,  dynamic  and  efficient  workforce.  The  goal 
is  to  provide  opportunities  for  wage-earning  and 
self —-employment in both the formal and the informal 
sectors  of  the  economy.  In  2011,  a  number  of  young 
people  graduated  from  the  programme’s  pilot  phase 
training  on  mobile  phone  repairs.  The  green  industry 
project, launched by His Excellency President Al Hadji 
Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, seeks to create employment for 
Gambian  youths  who  risk  their  lives  on  the  Atlantic 
Ocean  or  trek  across  the  desert  in  search  of  greener 
pastures  in  developed  countries.  The  national  youth 
service  scheme,  started  in  1996,  is  also  designed  to 
provide the young with employment skills. It emphasizes 
self-reliance  and  is  aimed  at  discouraging  illegal 
migration.  To  date,  the  scheme  has  trained  thousand 
of Gambians in almost 22 occupational fields, such as 
car  mechanics,  carpentry,  tailoring  and  so  forth.  The 
national enterprise development initiative is tasked with 
empowering young Gambians through the provision of 
training  in  entrepreneurship,  giving  loans  to  operate 
businesses in the informal sector and business advice 
in order to ensure investment sustainability.
13-49787
25/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
The  Gambia  recognizes  that  remittances  are  one 
of  the  developmental  effects  of  migration.  Although 
such effects are felt most acutely at the individual and 
household levels, they are also felt at the community and 
national levels. Hence, while remittances are privately 
earned transfers, they play a significant financial role 
in developing nations. The Government of the Gambia 
acknowledges  the  significant  contribution  Gambians 
in the diaspora are making towards the development of 
our nation.
In  conclusion,  it  can  be  seen  that  the  Gambia 
recognizes  the  huge  advantages  that  migration  can 
confer by spurring development, yet there are immense 
challenges that the phenomenon poses to development. 
Therefore,  with  a  view  to  harnessing  the  potential 
benefits of migration and development, the Gambia has 
initiated development projects that are proving useful 
in  curbing  illegal  migration,  on  the  one  hand,  and  in 
improving the skills of our youth and increasing options 
for the development of our country and its people, on 
the other.
Mr. Billström (Sweden): Sweden aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
and its member States.
Much progress has been made since the first High-
level Dialogue, in 2006. We have been moving towards 
a  common  understanding  of  the  positive  development 
impacts  of  migration.  It  is  clear  that  migrants  and 
diasporas can become crucial actors for development. 
Not  only  do  they  send  remittances  to  families  and 
communities,  they  connect  countries  by  investments 
and  trade.  Their  skills  and  ideas  enrich  economies 
and  societies.  Development  is  about  expanding  the 
choices of the poor and vulnerable. Today, we can claim 
with  certainty  that  the  millions  of  people  who  move, 
contribute to that process. In fact, they are intrinsically 
part of it. Mobility brings prosperity.
The  potential  for  even  greater  contributions  is 
nevertheless 
immense.  Better-tuned  Government 
policies  and  cooperation  can  make  that  difference. 
Therefore,  I  believe  that  we  should  focus  on  making 
further progress in a few key areas at this Dialogue.
First,  as  one  of  the  main  outcomes,  I  hope  to 
hear  strong  commitments  on  the  role  of  migration 
in  the  post-2015  agenda  in  line  with  the  proposal 
by 
the  Secretary-General.  The  new  development 
agenda  needs  to  recognize  migration  as  an  enabler 
of  the  relevant  development  goals,  and  we  need  to 
develop global partnerships to that end. That will help 
national planning commissions, bilateral development 
cooperation  agencies  and  multilateral  development 
agencies to incorporate migration in their development 
analysis, plans and monitoring efforts.
Secondly,  Governments,  employers  and  civil 
society  should  make  stronger  and  more  systematic 
efforts  to  empower  migrants.  Migrants  will  bring 
about  more  development  if  their  fundamental  rights 
are  respected,  and  when  they  are  protected  against 
exploitation,  discrimination  and  abuse.  We  need  to 
enable  and  facilitate  access  to  rights  and  ensure  the 
effective  implementation  of  existing  human  rights 
frameworks.
Thirdly,  Governments  should  assist  migrants  so 
that  they  can  bring  value  to  foreign  labour  markets 
at the actual level of their skills and qualifications. If 
we  want  to  bring  about  greater,  positive  development 
outcomes,  Governments  should  work  more  closely 
on  the  validation  and  recognition  of  skills.  We  need 
to  make  commitments  to  reduce  the  transfer  costs  of 
moving and the costs and risks of recruitment. Working 
with  employers,  we  also  should  improve  the  match 
between the demand and the supply of labour, so that 
migrants  respond  to  relevant  national  labour  market 
needs.
Fourthly,  when  we  invite  migrants  to  our  labour 
markets, we need to make sure that they have the means 
to integrate. We should better inform the general public 
about migrants’ positive contributions. If we want settled 
immigrants  and  members  of  diaspora  communities 
to bring more back to their countries of origin, we as 
Governments  need  to  facilitate  their  involvement  and 
provide adequate tools and frameworks.
Fifthly,  for  the  sake  of  the  migrants’  and  their 
families’  well-being  and  the  enhanced  portability 
of  skills,  we  also  need  to  facilitate  the  portability  of 
earned pension rights.
Those  are  five  areas  where  tangible  progress  is 
needed  and  possible.  Those  Governments  that  put 
in  place  enabling  legal  frameworks  and  embrace 
partnerships  are  likely  to  facilitate  mobility  and 
positive development outcomes in all those areas. Well-
managed migration can thereby bring mutual benefits.
Measures  are  certainly  important  at  the  national 
level, and I will provide just one example. In Sweden, 
a reform has opened up the Swedish labour market to 
26/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
people  from  outside  the  European  Union.  It  has  been 
praised by the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD) as one of the most liberal to 
be initiated by an OECD member. We are also preparing 
proposals on enhancing circular migration for mutual 
development gains.
National  action  can  feed  into  regional  and  global 
cooperation.  Sweden  has  taken  an  active  part  and 
provided leadership in the Global Forum on Migration 
and Development. As the current Chair of the Forum, 
we build on the experiences of and the progress made 
during the time of our six predecessors. In fact, setting 
up the Global Forum after the first High-level Dialogue 
was  that  Dialogue’s  most  tangible  result.  I  fully 
support  the  Secretary-General’s  statement  that  this 
forum has become indispensable. Today, it is the only 
global platform for the frank, open and trust-building 
exchange of experiences and good practices.
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
significant contributions of the Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Sutherland.  I  take  this 
opportunity to call on the Secretary-General, through 
his  Special  Representative,  to  continue  his  work  on 
identifying  priorities  for  international  cooperation  on 
migration, to stimulate the global debate and to initiate 
broader analysis and proposals regarding migration in 
the post-2015 development agenda. Sweden is ready to 
contribute actively to such initiatives. I would also like 
to call on the co-Chairs of the Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development to bring the issue of migration 
into the Group’s discussions.
All  relevant  United  Nations  agencies  and  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration,  as 
the 
lead  migration  agency,  should  have  migration  and 
development  firmly  on  their  agendas.  Strengthened 
coherence and cooperation within the Global Migration 
Group should be encouraged not only in New York and 
Geneva, but also in the field.
In  conclusion,  we  as  Governments  can 
take 
significant steps forward, together with all stakeholders, 
to further improve the potential contribution of migrants 
to development. It is up to all of us. Let us move ahead 
in partnership.
Mr. Khair (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
we extend our most heartfelt condolences and sympathy 
to  the  families  of  the  migrants  who  perished  in  the 
Mediterranean  Sea  today  off  the  shores  of  Italy.  This 
painful tragedy should compel us to attach even greater 
interest  to  this  issue  within  the  framework  of  our 
discussion on international migration and development 
here today.
I should like, on behalf of my country, to associate 
myself with the statements made on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China and of the African Union.
The  delegation  of  the  Sudan  appreciates  the 
opportunity presented by this High-level Dialogue on 
the issue of international migration and its integration 
into  and  incorporation  as  an  objective  as  part  of  the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  We  are  aware  of  the 
close relationship between migration and development, 
as well as the positive and negative impacts of migration 
on  States  of  origin  and  of  destination.  This  meeting 
affords us the opportunity to discuss that issue, too, in 
its many dimensions.
In  this  respect,  the  issue  of  migrants’  human 
rights  in  destination  countries  should  enjoy  the  same 
level  of  attention  as  efforts  and  sacrifices  to  achieve 
development in those countries, in conformity with the 
principles  of  international  agreements  in  the  field  of 
human rights.
Another  issue  of  importance  for  this  and  other 
meetings  that  will  lead  to  the  outcome  document  is 
that  of  compensation  for  States  that  have  seen  their 
workers, their best brains, flee abroad. They should be 
compensated in line with the resources that they have 
invested  in  the  education  of  those  workers,  including 
professional  training.  It  should  take  the  form  of 
assistance  to  cover  the  local  shortfall  and  guarantee 
that  successive  generations  of  qualified  professional 
workers  are  available  for  countries  of  origin  and 
destination alike.
The  Sudan  has  adopted  a  law  to  prevent  the 
illicit  trafficking  of  human  beings  on  the  basis  of 
international  efforts  to  regulate  safe  migration,  in 
particular international migration. The Sudan complies 
with  the  International  Convention  on  the  Protection 
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of 
Their Families, which prohibits the use of migrants for 
immoral work and the harming and abuse of migrants.
Our  history,  both  recent  and  distant,  shows  that 
we  have  always  welcomed  migrants.  We  have  done 
so  despite  our  very  difficult  economic  circumstances 
resulting from the unjust unilateral sanctions imposed 
against the Sudan and from the fact that our debt was 
not written off in conformity with the comprehensive 
agreement reached in that regard.
13-49787
27/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
The  Government  of  the  Sudan  attempts  to  help 
Sudanese  citizens  working  abroad.  We  have  set  up 
agencies to help them and to study the issue of migration 
and  its  impact.  We  have  also  established  a  national 
council to assist migrants. All these bodies work under 
the direct leadership of the Council of Ministers of the 
Sudan.
The Sudan is both a sending and receiving country 
of workers and migrants, as well as a country of transit 
on  various  levels.  We  therefore  have  a  great  deal  of 
experience in the field of migration issues. We attach 
high priority to this meeting and have high expectations 
of  it.  International  migration  in  all  its  forms  and  the 
impact thereof at the national and international levels 
should be taken into consideration.
The Sudan stands ready to continue its cooperation 
with all the relevant actors in drawing up development 
goals for the post-2015 period.
Mr. De Barros Veiga Tavares (Angola) (spoke in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
On  behalf  of  the  executive  branch  of  the  Republic  of 
Angola, let me express my joy at and gratitude for the 
invitation  to  participate  in  this  great  event.  The  topic 
under discussion is of pivotal importance, as migration 
is a hot topic and a political priority for the majority of 
the States Members of the United Nations.
As  is  well  known,  migration  dates  back  to 
prehistoric times and is motivated mainly by the search 
for better living conditions. In the globalized world in 
which we operate today, there is a growing migratory 
movement  caused  principally  by  political,  economic 
and  social  factors,  and  in  many  cases  by  armed 
conflicts. For several years, the Republic of Angola was 
marked by a wave of emigration due to the fratricidal 
war  that  devastated  the  country  and  the  unfavourable 
economic  climate  that  was  prevalent  then,  which  led 
many Angolans to abandon their country in search of a 
better life in various parts of the globe.
With  the  achievement  of  peace  in  2002,  Angola 
now  enjoys  political  and  social  stability,  which  has 
allowed  considerable  economic  growth.  That  has 
resulted  in  the  return  of  Angolans  from  the  diaspora 
and a massive influx of immigrants from various parts 
of  the  world,  particularly  from  Asia,  South  America, 
Europe,  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  It  is  our  belief 
that  the  influx  of  immigrants  to  Angola  is  useful  for 
the country’s development, especially in this phase of 
national reconstruction.
recognizes 
The  Angolan  Government 
that 
international  migration  is  part  of  the  globalization 
process and is an important factor for the development of 
both countries of origin and destination. However, illegal 
immigration  in  Angola  is  a  matter  of  concern  for  the 
State, especially because of its economic, demographic, 
social, cultural and security consequences, which make 
it a permanent concern for the Angolan State.
Therefore,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  status  of 
immigrants,  the  Republic  of  Angola  is  currently 
reforming  its  immigration  policy,  a  legal  instrument 
of  vital  importance.  The  reformed  policy  will  define, 
among  other  things,  mechanisms  to  be  observed  by 
immigrants in order for them to settle legally in Angola 
and to find suitable conditions for their integration into 
society and their participation in the country’s national 
reconstruction process now under way. That will allow 
them  to  earn  an  income,  which  will  enable  them  to 
improve  their  living  conditions  in  this  increasingly 
globalized world.
Angola  has  been  adopting  political,  diplomatic, 
judicial,  legislative  and  administrative  measures  to 
promote and ensure a healthy and smooth immigration 
system geared towards economic and social development 
and the protection of the human rights of immigrants, 
especially among the most vulnerable, including women, 
children and the elderly. Among the various measures 
being taken, we would like to highlight the construction 
of  temporary  housing  centres  for  illegal  immigrants, 
the opening of border checkpoints and crossing points, 
the  issuance  of  identification  documents  to  border 
residents  —  a  laissez-passer,  for  example  —  and  the 
strengthening of bilateral cooperation with States and 
international and regional organizations.
However, the fight against illegal immigration and 
the promotion of regular migration is the responsibility 
of  Member  States,  in  partnership  with  international 
organizations  and  civil  society.  There  is  a  need  to 
elaborate and adopt at the highest level an international 
strategy  for  managing  migration  flows.  We  believe  it 
is  essential  to  establish  cooperative  relations  between 
countries  of  origin  and/or  transit  by  entering  into 
bilateral and multilateral agreements on migration. In 
that regard, the Republic of Angola has signed bilateral 
and multilateral cooperation agreements on migration 
issues with several countries, focusing on neighbouring 
countries  within  the  context  of  the  Southern  African 
Development Community and the Economic Community 
of  Central  African  States.  Moreover,  Angola  has 
28/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
been  actively  involved  in  regional  and  international 
conferences on the management of migration promoted 
by  the  African  Union,  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees and the African, Caribbean 
and Pacific Observatory of Migration.
In conclusion, we would like to appeal to the United 
Nations  to  support,  through  its  specialized  agencies, 
Member  States  and  regional  organizations  in  their 
policies  aimed  at  efficient  management  of  migration 
flows. Similarly, we think it is appropriate to identify 
strategies  in  this  forum  to  allow  Member  States  to 
strengthen  the  exchange  of  experiences  and  other 
provisions,  so  that  migrants  are  not  seen  as  a  factor 
harmful  to  the  socioeconomic  policies  and  cultural 
rights of host countries.
Mr.  Mahmadaminov  (Tajikistan):  First  of  all, 
I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the 
organization  of 
today’s  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development.
We associate ourselves with the statement made by 
the representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China.
It  is  common  knowledge  that,  since  the  first 
High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration 
and  Development,  some  progress  has  been  made  in 
strengthening  cooperation  in  this  area.  However,  as 
yet the most effective mechanisms for the protection of 
the rights of all migrants have not been fully engaged, 
and  awareness  of 
the  complex  and  multifaceted 
nature  of  the  migration  process  is  lagging.  We  hope 
that  the  second  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  will  provide  a  broad  and 
efficient platform for a constructive discussion and an 
assessment of the impact of international migration on 
sustainable development, and that it will also identify 
priorities  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We 
believe  we  should  focus  our  efforts  on  searching  for 
ways to enhance cooperation and partnership on issues 
of  international  migration  and  the  protection  of  the 
rights of migrant workers.
Recognizing  the  importance  of  migration  issues, 
the  Government  of  Tajikistan  has  been  implementing 
measures on the legislative regulation of the migration 
process.  Since  2000,  various  consistent  and  targeted 
institutional  measures  aimed  at  regulating  labour 
migration  have  been  implemented  and  the  structures 
for bodies that manage migration have been developed. 
In 2001, the concept of labour migration abroad from 
the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  was  adopted,  according  to 
which  labour  migration  is  considered  an  integral  part 
of the national employment policy. In 2010, in order to 
develop  and  implement  an  effective  labour  migration 
policy, the Republic of Tajikistan developed a national 
strategy for labour migration abroad for the period 2010 
to 2015.
Currently, Tajikistan is implementing a programme 
on professional training for labour migrants. Today, their 
number has increased from 18 to 71, and their network 
covers  the  entire  country.  Within  this  framework, 
migrants receive training in 48 of the professions and 
trades most in demand.
I  would  like  to  dwell  on  the  issue  of  the  social 
protection  of  migrants.  A  report  by  Tajikistan  on  the 
implementation of the International Convention on the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members  of  Their  Families  was  considered  by  the 
Committee on Migrant Workers at its sixteenth session, 
held  in  Geneva  on  17  and  18  April  2012.  The  report 
covered work done in the field of the social protection 
of the families of migrants. As for the social protection 
of  migrants  from  Tajikistan  in  destination  countries, 
almost all bilateral agreements between Tajikistan and 
the  destination  countries  have  provisions  concerning 
ensuring their rights and their social protection.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  speak  briefly 
about  a  negative  aspect  of  international  migration: 
human trafficking. As one of the worst forms of human 
rights violations and freedoms, human trafficking has 
become  the  most  urgent  global  problem.  We  believe 
that more attention should be paid to strategies aimed 
at  protecting  and  rehabilitating  the  victims  of  human 
trafficking. The formation of regional and international 
mechanisms  of  cooperation 
to  combat  human 
trafficking is an important component in this struggle. 
Tajikistan is gradually implementing a comprehensive 
programme on combating human trafficking for 2011-
2013.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  note  that  my 
delegation  supports 
the  Declaration  adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  at  this  High-level  Dialogue 
(resolution 68/4). Meanwhile, I wish to underscore that 
implementing  that  declaration  successfully  depends, 
in  many  respects,  on  the  practical,  agreed-upon  and 
coordinated  measures  and  steps  to  be  undertaken  by 
both origin and destination countries.
13-49787
29/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
(Philippines): 
Ms.  Dimapilis-Baldoz 
The 
Philippines, as a major country of origin for labour, has 
pioneered  a  system  of  managing  temporary  contract 
migration that has been recognized as a model by the 
international  community.  It  is  founded  on  a  strong 
legal  and  social  framework  and  is  known  for  its 
comprehensive State policy of protection of the rights 
of migrants, regardless of their status, which covers all 
phases  of  the  migration  cycle.  It  serves  as  one  of  the 
pillars  of  the  Philippine  economic,  social  and  foreign 
policy.
this 
Notwithstanding 
long-tested  model, 
the 
management of the migration of more than 10 million 
overseas  Filipinos,  who  live  and  work  in  more  than 
200  countries  and  annually  contribute  $22  billion  in 
remittances,  continues  to  present  many  development 
challenges.  President  Benigno  S.  Aquino  III  has 
articulated a development goal of sustainable inclusive 
growth and decent work for all, where remittances are 
leveraged to spur investment and growth and migration 
for work is envisioned as a genuine option, and not a 
necessity.
In 
this  High-level  Dialogue, 
the  Philippines 
supports a migration and development agenda on decent 
work  for  migrants  and  their  families  that  is  anchored 
in the shared principles of transparency, responsibility, 
accountability and mutuality of benefits. We support the 
reconvening of the Dialogue every five years to assess 
its progress and to take stock, considering the results 
of  dialogue  processes  such  as  the  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development, the Abu Dhabi Dialogue 
and the Colombo Process, among others.
The  Philippines  supports  a  post-2015  migration 
and  development  agenda  that  can  be  pursued  through 
national, bipartite and multilateral arrangements, with 
the  following  objectives.  There  should  be  respect  for 
the universally recognized rights of migrants and their 
families, and legal, ethical and orderly migration should 
be  promoted.  The  gender  dimension  and  migration’s 
impact  on  women  and  children,  particularly  those  in 
domestic  work,  must  be  addressed.  Effective  access 
to  fast  and  fair  complaint  mechanisms  and  judicial 
remedies is needed. There should be mutual recognition 
of  skills  and  professions,  and  recruitment  agencies 
must  be  regulated  and  monitored.  Migrants  should 
have  access  to  social  security  and  health  care,  and 
social  security  and  pension  rights  should  be  portable. 
“Return  home”  programmes  are  needed  for  effective 
reintegration.  Faster,  safer  and  cheaper  remittance 
important.  Assistance 
transfers  are 
to  returning 
distressed migrants and trafficked persons is required, 
as is international action against trafficking and human 
smuggling. The United Nations must lead multilateral 
action for the fast and safe return of migrants caught in 
crisis situations.
With the support of Member States, this post-2015 
agenda  can  be  measured  through  a  jointly  agreed  set 
of  global  migration  and  development  indicators  to 
establish  benchmarks  for  good  practices  and  decent 
work for migrants and their families. With the support 
and  commitment  of  all  Member  States  to  the  post-
2015 agenda and its global migration and development 
indicators  for  good  practices,  as  well  as  those  from 
social partners and civil society organizations, it will 
certainly  help  strengthen  the  foundation  for  global 
peace, security and prosperity for all.
Mr.  El  Jaziri  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express, on behalf of Tunisia, our 
deep  solidarity  and  sadness  over  what  happened  this 
morning near Lampedusa, Italy. This type of accident 
happens  on  a  daily,  monthly  and  yearly  basis,  and 
thousands  of  people  go  missing  between  Africa  and 
Europe. Fewer than 300 people were martyred during 
the  revolution  in  Tunisia  that  demanded  freedom  and 
sought to build a new State, but hundreds and hundreds 
of Tunisians have gone missing in the waters between 
Europe and Africa. We know nothing of their fate. This 
issue is a global responsibility for Africa, Europe and 
the countries of the rest of the world.
Migration 
is  an 
important  vector  for  social, 
economic  and  cultural  cohesion  among  nations. 
Therefore,  support  for  the  contribution  of  migrants 
to  development  in  the  countries  of  origin,  destination 
and  transit  and  their  ability  to  play  a  fruitful  role  in 
achieving  cultural  outreach  cannot  be  separated  from 
policies  that  would  enhance  respect  for  their  rights 
and  aspirations.  Moreover,  sound  management  of 
international  migration  flows  and  the  creation  of 
relationships  through  the  development  of  the  States 
of  origin,  destination  and  transit  require  continued 
dialogue and cooperation at the international level on 
all issues in order to overcome the challenges posed by 
migration that require joint solutions.
in  migration 
over 
time  —  owing  to  people’s  desire  to  improve  their 
living 
technological 
advances  and  social,  economic  and  environmental 
accelerating 
conditions, 
increase 
The 
flows 
30/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
transformations — sometimes brings about crises and 
challenges that a single country cannot overcome alone. 
That  requires  us  to  work  together  to  find  appropriate 
and  rapid  solutions  to  those  challenges  and  crises  by 
listening to others, holding dialogues and cooperating, 
while preserving the dignity of migrants and their basic 
rights regardless of their legal status.
This  approach,  which 
is  based  on  dialogue, 
cooperation  and  the  centrality  of  human  rights,  has 
enabled  Tunisia  to  confront  and  overcome  one  of  the 
most extreme migration crises it has ever experienced: 
the flow of 1.2 million refugees of different nationalities 
coming from Libya after the fall of the former regime 
there  during  the  spring  of  201l.  Had  it  not  been  for 
the  spontaneous  solidarity  that  the  Tunisian  society 
and  Tunisian  people  expressed,  and  without 
the 
effective  participation  of  international  humanitarian 
organizations,  the  Libyan  crisis  would  have  had 
repercussions  with  a  significant  impact  on  Tunisia. 
The  Tunisian  authorities  dealt  with  the  crisis  in  an 
exemplary  way,  as  has  been  demonstrated  by  various 
international entities. We distributed those refugees to 
various  refugee  camps  that  were  concentrated  in  the 
south  of  Tunis  for  their  own  benefit,  and  the  camps 
were finally closed in June 2013.
It  is  worth  noting  here  that  the  changes  we  have 
witnessed in our region over the past few years have had 
important repercussions on migration flows and routes. 
My country and the entire region are still trying to deal 
with the various repercussions and challenges of those 
developments,  especially  at  the  economic  and  social 
levels. In addition to the challenges related to managing 
the  crises  brought  about  by  regional  developments, 
and the need to strengthen the link between migration 
and development, my country is trying to firmly deal 
with the issue of illegal migration, as well as trying to 
combat human trafficking and provide assistance to the 
victims of such dangerous practices.
Migrants  play  an  important  role  in  supporting 
development  in  their  countries  of  origin  in  various 
fields.  Our  expatriate  community, 
for  example, 
contributes  5  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product. 
Moreover, their savings constitute 30 per cent of total 
national  savings.  Given  the  importance  of  the  role  of 
Tunisian  migrants,  we  have  worked  on  including  the 
issue of migration in development plans and on giving 
Tunisian communities abroad a strategic position that is 
in line with national priorities.
In that framework, after the elections of 23 October 
2011,  Tunisia  established  a  State  department  for 
migration  and  for  Tunisians  abroad,  tasked  with 
drawing  up  a  national  policy  for  migration  issues 
and  following  up  on  developing  capacities  and  skills 
and  coordinating  the  various  mechanisms.  We  have 
also  launched  a  national  strategy  assigning  roles  in 
dealing with this to all the relevant parties, including 
Government organizations, academics and civil society. 
Furthermore,  we  are  working  on  creating  a  national 
observatory for migration.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  call  on  friendly 
countries  and  international  organizations  to  support 
our efforts in establishing institutional frameworks for 
migration that relate positively to the relevant political 
and administrative issues and to national development. 
I  should  note  here  that  migration  sometimes  has 
negative repercussions on development in the form of 
the brain drain. In in my country, for instance, it has 
exceeded acceptable levels and cannot continue at such 
a  rate  without  having  serious  adverse  effects  on  our 
development.
Finally,  as  I  said  earlier,  we  cannot  talk  about 
migration  today  without  mentioning  the  tragedy  of 
the  thousands  of  migrants  who  have  gone  missing  at 
sea,  a  number  that  includes  hundreds  of  Tunisians.  I 
believe  the  time  has  come  for  the  United  Nations  to 
give that issue the attention it deserves, because it has 
devastating humanitarian and social repercussions.
While we are discussing the many challenges and 
opportunities  involved  in  international  migration  and 
its  repercussions  on  development,  we  would  like  to 
reiterate the important role that the United Nations can 
play  in  dealing  with  issues  of  international  migration 
in the post-2015 development agenda. Those challenges 
and dangers have to be dealt with, and we must provide 
more opportunities in tackling migration and to support 
development.
Ms.  Pandor  (South  Africa):  I  wish  to  join  my 
colleagues  in  offering  our  country’s  condolences  to 
those who lost loved ones and compatriots in the tragic 
boat accident that occurred off the coast of Italy.
With regard to this debate, we would like to express 
our appreciation to the Secretary-General, his Special 
Representative and the various agencies and institutions 
that are working on the subject of managing migration 
in a humane and orderly fashion. We also welcome the 
13-49787
31/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
statements made earlier in this meeting on behalf of the 
African Union and of the Group of 77 and China.
We meet in this High-level Dialogue united in our 
resolve to advance international cooperation in the area 
of  migration.  While  we  welcome  the  thematic  focus 
on  migration  and  development  and,  of  course,  all  the 
deliberations on the subject, we do think it important to 
give attention to the challenge of migration in a context 
of poverty. How might poor countries convert migration 
into  an  opportunity  for  development  rather  than  a 
further  addition  to  the  poor  and  most  vulnerable  in 
their countries? Many developing countries experience 
migration in a context of poverty. How do we include 
them in this debate? How do we include their particular 
interests?
We  must  be  wary  of  assuming  a  nexus  between 
migration  and  development,  because  the  two  may  not 
always coincide for the poorest countries of the world. 
Some are vulnerable because of inadequate immigration 
systems  and  low  levels  of  security,  and  they  become 
victim  to  criminal  syndicates  that  steal  identities  and 
traffic  women  and  children.  We  must  respond  to  the 
challenges of those countries as well.
We  believe  this  Dialogue  must  help  countries 
resolve current migration challenges by creating links 
among stakeholders that will lay the basis for effective 
solutions to intractable challenges. The Dialogue must 
serve  as  a  platform  for  the  renewal  of  commitments 
at the highest level. We hope that the conclusions will 
signal a vibrant political commitment to advancing an 
agreed international agenda on migration.
South Africa believes the debates on international 
migration  are  appropriately  located  within  the  United 
Nations  system.  They  should  happen  here,  and 
monitoring must be done by United Nations institutions. 
We believe that will allow all Members an opportunity 
to discuss the subject on an equal footing.
As  colleagues  have  said,  migration  is  a  global 
phenomenon  today.  People  are  moving  to  seek  better 
opportunities,  and  global  corporations  are  looking 
for  scarce  skills  and  talented  individuals.  Regular, 
documented  migration  holds  benefits  for  migrants  as 
well as for countries of origin, transit and destination. 
Unfortunately,  irregular  and  illegal  migration  causes 
difficulties for Governments and for migrants. We also 
recognize that at times people are forced to migrate to 
survive. It is not always a matter of choice.
We as a country are not yet fully at a point where 
we can effectively administer all these different forms 
of migration. The partnerships we build here must help 
us  to  develop  our  national  capacities  to  administer 
our  populations  and  effectively  manage  international 
migration.
We  are  working,  with  the  support  of  the  African 
Union,  to  help  countries  develop  national  population 
registers  and  legal  frameworks  that  will  support 
migration. We believe our commitment to human rights 
is signalled by the manner in which we have received 
migrants in our country and in which they enjoy social 
welfare, support and legal access to all rights in South 
Africa.  We  must  ensure  that  all  our  institutions  and 
our countries have frameworks that support a form of 
migration  that  leads  to  development.  We  begin  from 
the  premise  that  the  responsibility  of  our  country  is 
to  fight  poverty,  inequality  and  underdevelopment, 
while  promoting  migration  policies  that  will  lead  to 
socioeconomic  growth,  enhance  skills  training  and 
promote  human  security,  global  partnerships  and 
capacity-building to benefit our country and migrants 
equally.
Given  the  reality  of  and  the  challenges  posed  by 
international migration, we are of the view that when 
managed  and  supported  effectively, 
international 
migration  can  contribute  to  social  and  economic 
development. We believe that it is vital that this debate 
on migration and development be fully integrated into 
the deliberations on the post-2015 development agenda. 
We  believe  migration  should  infuse  all  aspects  of 
development that will make up that agenda.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Ms.  Malmström  (European  Union):  On  behalf 
of the European Commission and the States members 
of the European Union (EU), I would like to begin by 
expressing my deepest sorrow over the horrible tragedy 
that  occurred  outside  Lampedusa  this  morning.  Our 
thoughts are with the victims and their families.
The European Union and its member States would 
like to reaffirm their commitment to a more consistent, 
comprehensive  and  better-coordinated  approach  to 
migration and development at all levels, and to identify 
measures  that  promote  the  role  of  migrants  as  agents 
of  innovation  and  development.  Working  together  on 
a  global  agenda  should  produce  tangible,  effective, 
inclusive  and  forward-looking  results.  Those  results 
32/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
should  improve  the  life  of  migrants  and  benefit  all 
countries and societies.
This High-level Dialogue comes at a crucial moment 
in time, as we enter the final phase for implementing the 
Millennium Development Goals and begin setting the 
post-2015 agenda. It is clear that migration and mobility 
have  contributed  to  the  achievement  of  many  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  There  is  no  doubt, 
for instance, that human capital transfers constitute an 
important  asset  for  countries  of  origin.  Remittances 
and the mobilization of diasporas to assist their country 
of  origin,  notably  through  investments,  constitute 
new sources of private financing for development. We 
should all continue to work together to lower the cost 
of remittances.
We  believe  that  migration  has  clear  links  with 
development  and  should  be  taken  into  account  in  the 
context  of  the  post-2015  agenda.  It  is  an  enabler  of 
inclusive  and  sustainable  growth  and  a  key  aspect 
of  global  population  dynamics.  Much  progress  has 
been  made  in  recent  years,  but  more  systematic  and 
comparable  work  is  needed  to  build  up  a  sufficient 
knowledge  base  on  how  migration  can  facilitate  or 
hinder  projects  aimed  at  achieving  the  development 
goals.  That  goes  in  particular  for  the  sectors  most 
influenced by demographics and labour issues.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  believe  that  it  is 
necessary  to  broaden  the  migration  and  development 
agenda  in  order  to  better  address  the  full  range  of 
positive and negative impacts that migration can have 
on  sustainable  economic,  social  and  environmental 
development. We must continue to adjust and advance 
policies  to  better  meet  the  current  challenges  and 
opportunities.  Allow  me  to  mention  briefly  three 
examples.
First,  we  must  recognize  that  almost  half  of  all 
international  migrants  reside  in  the  global  South. 
That  shows  the  growing  importance  of  migration 
and  mobility  between  developing  countries,  which 
requires  greater  attention  at  all  levels.  That  issue  in 
particular should be addressed in national and regional 
development policies.
Secondly, we should acknowledge that refugees and 
other persons in need of protection — especially those in 
protracted situations — present significant challenges 
for host countries and host communities, which should 
be addressed through long-term development planning, 
targeted  initiatives  and  the  enjoyment  by  refugees  of 
their rights. Empowerment can enable refugees to make 
important contributions to host communities and local 
and national economies.
Thirdly,  internal  mobility  within  a  country,  in 
particular between rural and urban areas, can produce 
opportunities  and  challenges  similar  to  international 
migration. Cities have the potential to act as catalysts 
of  social  change,  and  exchanges  of  knowledge  and 
experiences  between  cities  worldwide  should  be 
promoted.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  believe  that  all 
States should respect the dignity and uphold the human 
rights of migrants, regardless of their status. Particular 
attention should be given to the most vulnerable, such 
as  unaccompanied  minors,  children  and  victims  of 
trafficking.
Let  us  make  sure  that  the  protection  of  migrants’ 
human  rights  remains  a  cross-cutting  policy  priority. 
We should also uphold and ensure the implementation 
of the relevant international human rights instruments. 
That  goes  far  beyond  the  individual  migrant,  and  it 
also benefits the home society and the society in which 
migrants live and work.
implement 
the 
I  hope  that  we  can  all  agree  that  trafficking  in 
human  beings  is  a  serious  crime  and  a  gross  breach 
of  human  rights.  It  is  crucial  that  all  countries  ratify 
and 
instruments  on 
preventing  and  fighting  smuggling  and  trafficking 
in  human  beings.  It  is  equally  important  to  take  firm 
action  against  all  forms  of  exploitative  employment 
of  migrants,  including  by  implementing  sanctions  for 
employers of irregular migrants.
international 
Let us also agree today that more attention should be 
given to the assistance and protection needs of migrants 
caught  up  in  dire  humanitarian  and  life-threatening 
situations and distress, whether en route or during their 
stay in host countries. Seven years ago, the first-ever 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development  took  important  steps  to  improve  global 
migration  management,  in  particular  by  establishing 
the Global Forum on Migration and Development.
Six  successful  meetings  have  now  proved  that 
the Global Forum is a valuable platform for frank and 
open  discussions.  By  exchanging  experiences  and 
good practices, it has enabled trust to be built among 
participants  —  Governments,  civil  society  and  the 
private  sector.  We  should  now  take  one  step  further 
13-49787
33/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
and  increase  the  participation  of  development  actors. 
We would also like to use this opportunity to recognize 
the significant contribution made over the years by the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Migration.
The EU and its member States are convinced that 
improved coordination and coherence among all United 
Nations  agencies  and  other  international  and  regional 
organizations that deal with migration and development 
are  essential.  We  believe 
the  International 
Organization for Migration, as the leading international 
organization in that field, could take a proactive role in 
stepping up coordination within the system.
that 
Allow me also to share with the General Assembly 
the positive experience of the EU and its member States 
in  the  development  and  implementation  of  the  Global 
Approach  to  Migration  and  Mobility.  Since  2005,  it 
has provided a comprehensive framework for external 
action  on  migration.  On  that  basis,  the  EU  and  its 
member  States  are  engaged  in  regional  and  bilateral 
dialogues with a broad range of countries and regions. 
Within  that  framework,  several  EU  member  States 
have concluded and implemented bilateral agreements 
and  partnerships  with  several  States.  We  therefore 
urge all States to engage in international dialogue and 
cooperation to identify shared priorities and strengthen 
bilateral and regional migration management.
In  order  to  harness  the  benefits  of  migration  and 
minimize  the  negative  aspects,  we  need  migration  to 
be  well  managed.  Effective  return  and  readmission 
policies are prerequisites for well-managed migration, 
and  all  countries  should  meet  their  obligation  under 
international  customary  law  to  readmit  their  own 
nationals and take appropriate measures.
But States and international organizations cannot do 
all that alone. We need the effective involvement of the 
private sector, employers’ and workers’ organizations, 
academia  and  civil  society,  and  migrants’  and  human 
rights  organizations  on  the  global,  regional,  national 
and local levels.
Let us agree today to address the global challenges 
and  work  to  achieve  tangible,  effective  and  forward-
looking  results.  Let  us  identify  ways  to  improve  the 
lives  of  migrants  and  their  families.  And  let  us  take 
decisive steps to maximize the benefits that migration 
and development can bring.
Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing  the  importance 
that the EU and its member States attach to this High-
Level Dialogue and its follow-up.
Mr.  Barakauskas  (Lithuania):  I  would  like  to 
underline  the  importance  that  Lithuania  attaches  to 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and  Development  in  our  role  as  the  current  President 
of the Council of the European Union. In that respect, 
allow  me  to  recall  the  conclusions  of  the  Council  of 
the  European  Union  and  of  the  representatives  of  the 
European Union member States meeting in the Council 
on  the  2013  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development  and  on  broadening  the 
development-migration  nexus,  which  define 
the 
approach of the European Union and its member States 
for the High-level Dialogue.
Lithuania  fully  supports  what  has  been  said  by 
Commissioner  Malmström  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union and would like to add some additional remarks.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
are  convinced  that  economic  growth  can  be  further 
underpinned  by  policies  on  global  and  intraregional 
labour  mobility,  such  as  policies  that  ensure  more 
targeted  skills  development,  skills  certification  and 
skills recognition schemes, especially in sectors where 
there is a shortage of trained personnel. For example, 
training partnerships could make valuable contributions 
to  increasing  the  supply  of  trained  personnel  for 
both  countries  of  origin  and  destination  in  sectors 
experiencing  labour  shortages,  through  appropriate 
mechanisms to match demand and supply.
In that context, it is necessary to consider reviewing 
possible  barriers  to  mobility  in  order  to  facilitate 
economic relations, prosperity and regional integration, 
taking into account the situation of the respective labour 
markets  and  security  concerns.  In  our  view,  regional 
organizations are particularly well-placed to facilitate 
regional mobility, which is why processes and regional 
organizations  involved  in  promoting  orderly,  regular 
and safe intraregional migration and mobility between 
developing countries should be supported.
It 
is  crucial 
to  ensure  adequate  protection, 
empowerment  and  decent  working  standards  for 
migrant  workers.  Potential  migrants  should  receive 
accurate  information  about  immigration  procedures, 
entitlements and obligations. That would contribute to 
reducing the vulnerability of migrants.
34/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
I  would  also  like  to  highlight  a  number  of  issues 
under  consideration  as  perceived  from  our  national 
perspective. Lithuania, with its population of 3 million 
people,  has  a  very  long  emigration  history  and  a 
strong  diaspora.  Like  many  European  countries, 
Lithuania  experienced  large-scale  emigration  at  the 
beginning  of  the  last  century.  Migration,  especially 
emigration,  became  a  reality  again  during  the  1990s, 
and especially over the past few years. It is estimated 
that today more than 1.3 million people of Lithuanian 
origin  reside  outside  the  borders  of  Lithuania,  of 
whom about 300,000 hold Lithuanian citizenship. The 
Lithuanian Government therefore considers it a priority 
to exploit that potential by promoting the idea that no 
matter where Lithuanians reside, they should have the 
opportunity  to  develop  contacts  with  their  country  of 
origin and contribute to its development.
In  our  efforts  to  find  innovative  ways  to  engage 
the Lithuanian diaspora to participate in State life and 
contribute  to  its  development,  we  have  learned  some 
important points. Lithuania will share its experience in 
that regard at round table three tomorrow morning.
Let me conclude by stressing the importance that 
the  European  Union  and  its  member  States  attach  to 
this High-level Dialogue and its follow-up.
Mr. Thapa (Nepal): Allow me to extend my warm 
felicitations to all of the participants in the High-level 
Dialogue. The history of civilization bears testimony to 
the fact that there exists a close nexus between migration 
and  development,  but  migration  has  yet  to  come  into 
the  mainstream  of  the  development  discourse.  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  bypassed  it, 
and other internationally agreed development goals have 
treated it with scant regard. As the world community is 
at  a  juncture  as  it  seeks  to  advance  the  attainment  of 
MDGs  and  the  framing  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, I believe that this High-level Dialogue will be 
a turning point in addressing that important issue and 
bringing it into the mainstream process.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Fiji on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. I would also like to associate 
myself with the statement delivered by the representative 
of Benin on behalf of least developed countries.
Migration  is  a  common  feature  of  the  globalized 
and  interdependent  world,  but  the  question  remains 
as  to  whether  we  want  to  make  that  important 
phenomenon 
transparent  and 
regular,  managed, 
accountable,  so  as  to  bring  about  a  win-win  situation 
for countries of origin and destination alike. Countries 
in the North as well as in the South have benefited from 
the  migration  of  workers.  Destination  countries  have 
filled the gaps resulting from labour shortages in their 
efforts  to  advance  their  socioeconomic  development, 
and  sending  countries  have  received  remittances  for 
general welfare of the families and households, which 
help  to  reduce  poverty  and  sustain  economic  growth. 
But, migrant workers, particularly those in the low- and 
semi-skilled  categories,  are  often  subject  to  various 
risks  and  vulnerabilities.  The  protection  of  the  basic 
rights  of  the  most  vulnerable  section  of  the  migrant 
workers,  especially  low-skilled  workers,  women  and 
girls, in destination countries must therefore be granted 
increased attention.
More  effective  mechanisms  of  cooperation  and 
collaboration  among  sending,  transit  and  receiving 
countries  at  the  bilateral,  regional  and  global  levels 
are needed in order to protect the rights of workers and 
take  into  account  their  contribution  to  development. 
More  analytical  studies  and  research  are  needed  to 
fully  understand  how  migration  and  migrant  workers 
contribute  to  the  complex  developmental  process, 
beyond growth in gross domestic product (GDP) alone.
For  a  country  like  Nepal,  where  remittances 
from  migration  represent  around  25  per  cent  of 
GDP  at  present  and  where  around  1,500  youths 
leave  the  country  for  foreign  employment  every  day, 
labour  migration  is  an  issue  of  high  importance  and 
urgency. The circular migration of youths to southern 
destinations  plays  an  important  role  in  the  economy 
of  Nepal.  For  us,  the  safety  and  security  of  workers 
at  all  stages  of  the  migration  process,  issues  such  as 
decent  work,  regular  and  market-based  pay  and  the 
observance  of  health  standards  at  work  are  crucial. 
We call on the countries of the North to open up their 
labour  markets  for  regularized  cyclical  migration 
in  a  more  transparent  manner.  We  are  committed  to 
maintaining  transparency  and  accountability  in  the 
recruitment process, which need to be supported by a 
positive environment in the market place. In particular, 
we seek to avoid exploitative and abusive practices by 
employers and their middlemen. Lowering the cost of 
recruitment and of the transfer of remittances provides 
great respite to the workers and facilitates the arrival of 
remittance proceeds to poor countries in need.
We emphasize the importance of regional initiatives 
such  as  the  Colombo  Process  and  the  Abu  Dhabi 
13-49787
35/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
Dialogue, which are aimed at ensuring safe, managed, 
predictable and mutually beneficial migration, and we 
call  for  the  proper  functioning  and  strengthening  of 
such initiatives, which serve the interests of origin and 
destination countries alike.
At the global level, the Global Forum on Migration 
and  Development  must  be  strengthened  to  provide 
broader  education  and  awareness-raising  on  relevant 
issues  and  build  confidence  in  steering  through  the 
migration  process  in  a  managed  and  orderly  manner. 
Similarly,  the  role  of  the  international  organizations 
responsible  for  migration  issues  should  be  geared  up, 
so as to better serve the legitimate interests of workers.
In  order  to  realize  an  inclusive,  sustainable  and 
people-centred development approach, as envisaged in 
the  post-2015  development  framework,  international 
migration  and  its  contribution  to  the  development 
of  origin  and  destination  countries  must  be  granted 
adequate  attention.  The  substantive 
in 
the  number  of  migrant  workers  and  in  the  flow  of 
remittances  is  already  visible,  but  at  the  same  time 
the development dimension of migration must also be 
reflected in the future development agenda.
increase 
Ms. Sommaruga (Switzerland) (spoke in French): 
Switzerland was, for a long time, a country of emigration. 
Today,  in  terms  of  our  own  population,  Switzerland 
has  one  of  the  highest  rates  of  immigration  in  the 
world.  Immigration  makes  an  important  contribution 
to  Switzerland’s  economic,  social  and  cultural 
development.  However,  certain  voices  have  begun  to 
be raised to demand restrictions on immigration to our 
country.
On the other hand, there are other European countries 
that seek to attract greater numbers of migrants in order 
to address the labour shortfalls in many sectors of their 
economies.  There  are,  furthermore,  those  who  leave 
other European countries particularly impacted by the 
financial crisis to try their chances on other continents.
Those examples show that migration is constantly 
changing, and with it so too are the demands it places 
on  States.  Today  many  countries  are,  at  the  same 
time, countries of origin, transit and destination. That 
means that very different countries located on different 
continents  have  things  in  common  when  it  comes  to 
migration. We must see this as an important opportunity. 
Where  there  are  similarities,  there  are  automatically 
opportunities  for  cooperation.  Switzerland  fosters 
such  cooperation  through  bilateral  partnerships  on 
migration. On the basis of a regular dialogue, we carry 
out joint projects to learn from each other and to find 
solutions to problems.
But  important  regional  or  global  issues  cannot 
be  dealt  with  only  in  a  bilateral  framework.  Such 
consideration  needs 
to  be  complemented  by  a 
multilateral dialogue. With the Bern Initiative of 2004, 
Switzerland  took  the  first  step  in  a  continuous  effort 
to foster an open dialogue on immigration. Dialogues 
need  strong  partners.  I  would  like  to  particularly 
acknowledge  the  important  role  played  by  Sir  Peter 
Sutherland.  Civil  society’s  five-year  action  plan  is  a 
constructive contribution to the High-level Dialogue.
We also welcome the recent decisions of the Global 
Migration  Group,  and  we  will  continue  to  support  its 
work.  However,  Switzerland  would  also  like  to  invite 
the Group to consider the possibility of a joint debate 
on  how  to  make  the  Group  a  stronger  partner  at  the 
policy and operational levels.
The 
issue  of  a  dialogue  on  migration  and 
development  should  remain  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda.  We  are  convinced  of  the  value  of  regular 
high-level dialogues. Such gatherings allow us to take 
stock of the situation and set the agenda at the political 
level. At the same time, they complement expert-level 
processes,  such  as  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration 
and  Development.  Switzerland  continues  to  offer  full 
support to the Forum, which is the main platform for 
global dialogue for States.
We fully subscribe to the eight-point programme of 
action outlined in the report of the Secretary-General 
(A/68/292). Allow me to highlight three aspects of that 
agenda.
First, human trafficking is an unspeakable violation 
of  the  most  fundamental  human  rights  of  women, 
children and men. It is our duty to prevent trafficking, 
protect victims, punish perpetrators and join our forces 
through partnerships. Switzerland is determined to put 
an end to that form of modern slavery and has included 
those principles in a national action plan.
Secondly,  although  it  is  not  formally  reflected  in 
the  current  framework,  it  is  widely  acknowledged 
that  migration  has  contributed  significantly  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Switzerland will work for the integration of migration 
into all relevant fields within the post-2015 framework.
36/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
Thirdly,  Switzerland  endorses  the  call  by  the 
Secretary-General  for  better  protection  of  the  human 
rights  of  migrants.  Around  the  globe,  migrants  find 
themselves  in  terrible  situations.  A  pragmatic  and 
coordinated  approach  among  all  actors  is  needed  to 
effectively protect the rights of migrants.
Strong international cooperation, as important as it 
is, cannot free a State from its responsibilities. States 
must bear the primary responsibility for protecting the 
rights  of  migrants  and  for  helping  them  to  integrate, 
while expecting them to contribute to the harmonious 
life  of  their  communities.  Our  societies  will  enjoy 
the benefits of migration only when States meet their 
responsibilities in that regard.
Mr.  Molapo  (Lesotho):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
extending  the  sympathies  and  condolences  of  His 
Majesty  the  King,  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Lesotho for the tragic events that occurred this morning 
off the coast of Lampedusa.
It is a great honour to deliver these remarks on this 
very  important  occasion  of  the  United  Nations  High-
level Dialogue. The Dialogue seeks to identify concrete 
measures  to  strengthen  coherence  and  cooperation 
at  all  levels  with  a  view  to  enhancing  the  benefits  of 
international migration for migrants and countries alike, 
as well as migration’s important links to development, 
while  reducing  its  negative  implications.  It  comes 
at  an  opportune  time,  when  the  United  Nations  is  in 
the process of formulating the post-2015 development 
agenda.
Migration remains an enabler of development at the 
family, national and international levels. It touches the 
core of families’ lives. The migration and development 
discourse traditionally perceived migration as a problem 
to be solved by fostering development in the countries 
of origin. It has since recognized mobility as an integral 
part of development that presents both important human 
development  opportunities  and  trade-offs  and  costs. 
Migration  has  increasingly  become  multidirectional, 
with the South-South migration being at the same level 
as  North-South  flows.  Hence,  countries  of  the  North 
and South face the same challenges when it comes to 
governing migration.
Lesotho  is  both  a  least  developed  country  and  a 
landlocked  developing  country.  That  geographical 
position  has  exposed  Lesotho  to  a  combination  of 
migration  challenges  and  opportunities.  Lesotho’s 
economic  opportunities  have  been  characterized  by 
migration  since  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  when 
Lesotho  was  regarded  as  a  labour  reserve  for  South 
African mines. Since then, a significant proportion of 
Lesotho’s labour force has been flocking to the Republic 
of South Africa as migrant workers. The positive side of 
that scenario is evidenced by the magnitude of migrant 
remittances to Lesotho, which constitute 25 per cent of 
the country’s gross domestic product, exceeding official 
development assistance, foreign direct investment and 
Southern African Customs Union revenues. In fact, in 
real terms, Lesotho is one of the top recipients in the 
world.
I  cannot  be  complacent  about  the  gains  we  make 
from  remittances  received  from  a  single  source, 
because,  on  the  other  hand,  Lesotho  is  losing  some 
of  its  best  minds  in  other  sectors  through  migration. 
Perhaps it is time for us to balance the scale and devise 
strategies  for  enhancing  the  benefits  of  migration  for 
migrants  in  countries  of  origin  and  destination  alike 
through,  inter  alia,  the  facilitation  of  other  forms  of 
diaspora contributions.
At 
like 
this  point,  I  would 
to  share  with 
representatives one of the major initiatives Lesotho has 
undertaken in its quest to manage migration in a coherent 
manner. Lesotho has drafted a comprehensive migration 
and  development  policy.  Among  the  key  issues,  the 
draft policy discusses migration data management, the 
“brain  drain”,  skills  development  and  retention,  the 
Basotho diaspora, remittances, international migration, 
migration  and  gender,  migration  and  health,  informal 
cross-border  trade,  human  trafficking,  social  security 
for  migrant  workers  and  cross-border  management. 
Those  issues  are  pertinent  to  the  migration  and 
development discourse in Lesotho.
I wish to conclude by emphasizing the importance 
of  the  nexus  between  migration  and  development. 
Migration  is  a  stimulus  for  human  development,  and 
as  such  it  is  fitting  to  seek  to  understand  migration 
dynamics and to embark on comprehensive approaches 
to  its  management.  While  we  respect  the  freedom  of 
movement as a fundamental element of human rights, 
we also need to cautiously pay attention to the abuse of 
those rights.
Mr.  Souhail  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  First 
of  all,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  President  for 
having  convened  this  second  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. It offers the 
international community a precious opportunity to take 
13-49787
37/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
stock of the past seven years, when there has been an 
unprecedented mobilization of interest around a subject 
that is complex and sensitive, one that essentially allows 
us to link the past, present and future of humankind. My 
country associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China. Over the past 20 years, the movement of people 
has continued to grow, owing mainly to economic and 
demographic disparities. According to data provided by 
the Population Division of the Department of Economic 
and Social Affairs at the United Nations, the number of 
international migrants in the world has increased from 
155 million in 1990 to 214 million in 2010.
For most of those migrants, the main objective has 
remained the same, namely, to find better opportunities 
to  improve  their  living  conditions  and  those  of  their 
families, thereby contributing to growth and well-being 
both in the countries of origin and in the countries of 
destination. Migrants boost the economy and increase 
growth  in  the  gross  domestic  product  of  the  country 
of destination. Migration also contributes to mitigating 
the problems of unemployment and, to some extent, to 
the financing of human and economic development in 
the country of origin through remittances.
However,  the  past  decade  has  also  seen  major 
changes  in  the  breadth,  intensity  and  destination  of 
migratory  flows.  Migration  from  one  developing 
country to the next remains significant. However, there 
are new poles of economic growth in the South, creating 
South-South  flows.  As  a  country  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination,  Morocco  makes  the  dual  effort  of 
responding to the needs of Moroccans residing abroad, 
while  also  creating  strategic,  legal  and  institutional 
instruments  in  line  with  international  standards  that 
govern the stay of foreigners within its territory.
On 9 September, at a meeting devoted to migration, 
His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  reiterated  that  the 
issue  of  migration,  which  is  a  subject  of  legitimate 
concern and sometimes even of polemical discussions, 
should  be  addressed  in  a  global  and  humanistic 
manner,  in  line  with  international  law,  with  greater 
multilateral  cooperation.  In  that  framework  and  in 
order to implement those goals, a number of meetings 
have  been  held  in  the  form  of  working  groups  that 
have  been  charged  with  examining  cases  recognized 
as  refugee  cases  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  in  Rabat.  Hearings 
for  those  concerned  began  on  25  September.  We  also 
had  to  establish  case-by-case  assessment  criteria  for 
irregular  administrative  status 
reviewing the legal status of certain groups of foreigners 
with 
in  Morocco. 
Humanitarian  situations  involving  vulnerable  people 
and those who carry out regular professional activities 
in  our  country  will  be  given  priority.  Other  working 
groups  will  be  charged  with  renewing  the  legal  and 
institutional  framework  for  dealing  with  asylum  and 
the  fight  against  human  trafficking.  Finally,  we  will 
have to redouble our diplomatic efforts to promote our 
country’s  stance  and  propositions  in  the  main  forums 
addressing migratory flows and to revive regional and 
international cooperation in that regard.
Meanwhile,  Morocco,  which  was  one  of  the  first 
States  to  ratify  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  All 
Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, will 
continue  to  work  with  the  United  Nations  system  to 
implement the United Nations Development Assistance 
Framework  for  the  period  2012-2016,  which  includes 
refugees  and  migrants  among  the  groups  requiring 
special  attention.  The 
international  dialogue  on 
migration  and  development  has  made  significant 
progress  over  the  last  decade,  making  it  possible 
for  migration  to  go  from  being  a  taboo  subject  to  an 
item  that  is  constantly  on  the  international  agenda. 
Therefore,  thanks  to  the  combined  efforts  of  regional 
consultative processes and the international dialogue on 
migration conducted by the International Organization 
for Migration and other groups, the debate on migration 
has become more constant and structured.
However,  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development  remains  merely  a  place  for  dialogue 
and  lacks  a  concrete  implementation  tool,  given 
that  much  of  the  process  happens  outside  the  United 
Nations  system.  The  second  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  will  give 
Member States an opportunity to bring migration into 
the work of the United Nations in an effective manner 
as part of the framework of the post-2015 development 
agenda.  Morocco  can  only  welcome  the  large-scale 
mobilization around that topic.
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
At the national level, we have already committed, 
with our new immigration policy, to integrate migration 
into the global migration strategy and various sectoral 
strategies.  A  similar  effort  has  just  been  launched 
regionally, with the launch two days ago of the African 
Alliance  for  Migration  and  Development,  made  up 
38/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
primarily  of  those  countries  that  participated  in  the 
Rabat  Process.  Morocco  fully  supports  humanitarian 
action  in  Africa  as  one  of  the  main  objectives  of 
its  foreign  policy.  It  also  supports  the  work  of  and  a 
recent  initiative  by  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  International  Migration  and 
Development in times of crisis.
The  international  community  must  increase  its 
awareness  of  the  humanitarian  consequences of  acute 
crises  affecting  migrants,  as  a  matter  of  urgency. 
It  is  also  essential  that  we  identify  how  to  help  such 
persons in accordance with existing international law, 
humanitarian  principles,  and  shared  responsibility, 
which  are  principles  that  are  generally  accepted  as 
good  practices  both  internationally  and  nationally.  In 
the  event  of  migration-based  crises,  the  operational 
framework  of 
the  International  Organization  for 
Migration is a good starting point.
Allow  me,  in  conclusion,  to  highlight  once  again 
the urgent need for concerted action by the international 
community on migration and development. The process 
of globalization began during the previous century with 
the mobility of goods, services and capital. The twenty-
first  century  will  be  a  time  of  human  mobility.  The 
point  is  no  longer  to  try  to  see  whether  more  people 
in the world will move to different parts of the world 
but,  rather,  under  what  conditions  those  migratory 
movements  will  take  place.  The  recommendations 
contained  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/68/292)  provide  a  platform  that  will  enable  the 
success  of  international  migration  on  the  basis  of 
judicious  and  fruitful  international  cooperation.  We 
believe that such a commitment will allow us to build a 
better future for tomorrow.
Mr. Saleh (Eritrea): At the outset, I would like to 
congratulate the President for organizing this High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report. Many of the global issues that we try to address 
at  the  United  Nations  have  their  own  complexities 
and  implications  on  the  policies  and  actions  that  we 
would like to undertake. In that connection, the topic 
of  international  migration  and  development  is  no  less 
complex. I am convinced that this High-level Dialogue 
will  allow  us  to  assess  the  progress  and  challenges 
of  international  cooperation  within  migration  and 
development.
Migration  has  always  been  a  part  of 
the 
human  condition.  Today,  people’s  movements  are 
affected  by  and  have  an  effect  on  faster  and  better 
communication.  Transportation  systems  have  created 
a  web  of  interdependence  and  interconnectedness, 
rendering international migration a complex issue with 
overarching global policy implications.
Today’s  world  is  beset  by  suffering;  rising  youth 
unemployment,  unresolved  conflicts,  political  and 
economic  crises,  changing  climatic  conditions,  global 
economic  inequalities  and  political  inducements  are 
among  the  contributing  factors  to  the  current  rapid 
mobility of people from many countries and regions.
International migration is a multidimensional reality 
of major relevance for the development of origin, transit 
and  destination  countries.  We  should  not  shy  away 
from  addressing  it  head-on  so  that  it  also  becomes 
a  positive  force  for  the  achievement  of  the  post-
2015  development  goals.  There  is  a  dynamic  linkage 
between migration and development, and we should be 
able  to  address  the  challenges  and  opportunities  that 
it presents. My delegation believes that building on its 
positive  implications  for  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and destination represents a way forward. To do that, 
reliable  statistical  data  on  international  migration  are 
needed, including, where possible, on the contributions 
of  migrants 
in  both  origin  and 
destination countries.
to  development 
International  migration  is  not  without  its  own 
problems  or  perils,  as  we  heard  this  morning  with 
regard to the sad and tragic incident in Lampedusa. I 
wish  to  extend  my  condolences  to  the  families  of  the 
victims.  Many  migrants  face  death,  abuse,  violence, 
horror  and  exploitation,  and  may  become  subjects  of 
organ  harvesting  by  organized  criminal  elements. 
Human  trafficking  ought  to  be  combated  in  all  its 
manifestations.  We  need  to  cooperate  and  build  a 
common  front  by  fully  implementing  the  Global  Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
the 
While 
introduction  and  consolidation  of 
coordinated policies for safe, orderly and legal migration 
is  vital  in  reducing  the  vulnerabilities  of  migrants,  I 
wish to stress that it is important that, irrespective of 
the status of the migrants, they need to be allowed to 
live in dignity and security and have their basic rights 
respected,  including  the  issuance  of  residence  and 
work permits. There is no doubt that migrants’ access 
to  education,  training  and  decent  work  would  greatly 
benefit the theme under discussion. Integration policies 
ought to be considered and reinforced. Involuntary, or 
13-49787
39/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
forced, repatriation cannot be acceptable. Their right to 
voluntary return to and reintegration in their country of 
origin must also be respected without any interferences 
or impediments from any quarter.
As  a  commitment  to  the  protection  of  Eritrean 
migrants from abuse, including xenophobia and racism, 
Eritrea has signed seven of eight core conventions of the 
International  Labour  Organization  (ILO).  The  eighth 
convention is in process, and ILO Convention No. 189, 
on decent work for domestic workers, has already been 
submitted to the competent body for ratification.
Eritrea  has  a  relatively  large  diaspora  population. 
In  2007  a  dedicated  department  for  Eritreans  living 
overseas  was  established  within  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign Affairs, in addition to the existing diplomatic 
structures within its embassies and consular missions. 
The  role  and  contribution  of  Eritreans  abroad  in  the 
struggle for independence had laid the foundation for 
their  active  participation  in  the  social,  political  and 
economic development of the country.
Eritrea  has  a  long  history  of  changing  the  road 
map  from  “brain  drain”  to  “brain  gain”,  as  several 
professional  Eritreans  in  the  diaspora  were  involved 
in  the  liberation  movement.  Eritreans  in  the  diaspora 
enjoy the rights of full citizenship, including the right 
of representation in the National Assembly and the right 
to own properties and open businesses. Eritreans in the 
diaspora  support  their  families  through  remittances, 
and a significant number of them fulfil the 2 per cent 
per  cent  recovery  and  rehabilitation  tax  promulgated 
by the National Assembly in 1995. However, there are 
campaigns in certain countries that want to impede the 
contributions of Eritreans in the diaspora by politicizing 
the issue. The diaspora’s rights to contribute to poverty 
alleviation  and  the  overall  sustainable  development 
programmes ought to be enhanced, not impeded.
Our  major  challenge  is  how  best  to  consolidate 
and  maximize  the  benefits  of  migration  and  mitigate 
its  effects.  Closer  international  cooperation  aimed  at 
enhancing the contribution of migrants to development 
is needed today more than any time before. I would like 
to express my delegation’s commitment to an effective 
and  inclusive  agenda  on  international  migration  that 
integrates  development  and  strengthens  existing 
institutions and frameworks at all levels.
Ms. Richards (United States of America): I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  those  in  the  Secretariat  who  have  organized  this 
important  dialogue.  I  am  very  pleased  to  see  many 
familiar faces here in New York.
Let me start by recognizing our Mexican colleagues 
for  their  hard  work  in  their  efforts  to  find  consensus 
and constructive approaches to the challenging issues 
surrounding  migration  and  development.  We  think 
their work shepherding the declaration that was agreed 
to  earlier  (resolution  68/4)  has  set  the  stage  for  a 
successful and substantive High-level Dialogue.
In  my  public  remarks  I  have  emphasized  the 
importance  of  focusing  on  concrete  outcomes  that 
can  move  the  migration  dialogue  forward  rather  than 
on divisive institutional and procedural issues that do 
nothing to improve the lives of migrants.
Let  me  briefly  mention  three  areas  that  I  believe 
can  be  advanced  by  this  High-level  Dialogue.  The 
first is migrants in crisis, the second is trafficking in 
persons and the third, to a certain extent, is migration 
in development.
There  are  unprecedented  numbers  of  migrants 
living  and  working  outside  their  countries  of  origin. 
We have recently seen several situations where, due to 
conflict or natural disaster, large numbers of migrants 
have been trapped in crisis situations. Examples include 
the  unrest  in  Libya,  the  earthquake  and  tsunami  in 
Japan  in  2011,  and  Hurricane  Sandy  right  here  in  the 
United States last year.
To begin the dialogue, I propose to begin to focus 
on lessons learned from situations like the Libya crisis, 
where  migrants,  through  no  fault  of  their  own,  were 
stranded  without  recourse  because  of  events  outside 
their control.
I applaud the leadership shown by Peter Sutherland, 
the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Representative  on 
Migration,  on  the  issue  of  migrants  in  crisis  and  his 
excellent leadership on migration overall. I hope he will 
continue to help identify the most challenging emerging 
migration issues and work with States and international 
organizations to develop innovative solutions.
the 
International  Organization 
I  have  agreed  to  help  lead  an  initiative  with  the 
Philippines and other interested countries — working 
closely  with 
for 
Migration,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees and civil society groups — to 
address the situation of migrants in crisis. The process 
for  that  initiative  still  needs  to  be  engineered,  but 
I  envision  a  State-led  process  aimed  at  examining 
40/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
the  responsibilities  of  different  actors  in  those  crisis 
situations, perhaps reporting back on progress during 
the  2014  and  2015  meetings  of  the  Global  Forum  on 
Migration and Development. To begin, I ask this High-
level Dialogue to endorse the idea of us moving forward 
informally through such a State-led process. That will 
serve as a lasting legacy of this Dialogue.
Trafficking  in  persons  is  a  key  priority  for  the 
Obama Administration, as it has been for prior United 
States  Administrations  and  is  for  many  members  of 
the  United  States  Congress.  In  acknowledgement  of 
the  importance  of  the  issue,  the  State  Department’s 
trafficking office is part of the United States delegation 
here today.
We  must  affirm  our  commitment 
to  protect 
trafficking  victims  by  encouraging  increased  efforts 
to  identify  them  among  migrant  populations  and  by 
cautioning against conflating them with people who are 
smuggled  or  who  migrate  without  papers.  We  should 
ensure that victims are not penalized as criminals.
Assisting  victims  requires  a  global  approach  that 
puts  victims  at  the  centre  of  our  response  —  getting 
them  out  of  harm’s  way,  ensuring  that  their  abusers 
are  brought  to  justice  and  helping  them  recover  and 
move forward with their lives. This forum provides the 
perfect opportunity to remind Member States that we 
have an excellent tool for fighting this modern form of 
human slavery in the Convention against Transnational 
Organized  Crime  and 
its  Protocols.  While  157 
States  have  ratified  the  Convention,  not  enough  have 
implemented it and put it into practice. This High-level 
Dialogue will have a lasting legacy if it can serve as a 
catalyst for States that have not ratified the Convention 
and  its  Protocols  to  do  so  and  for  those  States  that 
have  ratified  the  Convention  to  fully  implement  it. 
That would make a world of difference to victims and 
potential victims of trafficking throughout the world.
Thirdly,  migration  and  development  are  huge 
topics. We need to begin to narrow our discussions and 
focus on issues within the topics where there is reliable 
evidence  and  a  common  understanding.  An  issue 
that  has  broad  support  now  is  reducing  the  overhead 
cost  associated  with  sending  remittances.  Although 
the  Group  of  20’s  “five  in  five”  target  —  to  reduce 
remittance costs to 5 per cent in five years — was not 
achieved  in  the  hoped-for  time  frame,  continuing  to 
work towards a 5 per cent benchmark could be useful 
for  the  international  community  and  would  free  up 
billions  of  dollars  for  those  individuals  and  families 
that benefit from remittance flows.
I look forward to a successful High-level Dialogue 
and  thank  all  members  for  their  commitment  to 
bettering the lives of migrants and acknowledging their 
contributions to development.
Ms.  Del  Carmen  Guillén  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  wishes  to  join 
others  in  expressing  our  sense  of  solidarity  and  our 
grief  over  the  sad  events  near  the  Italian  island  of 
Lampedusa.
Mexico recognizes that the link between migration 
and development is a global challenge. The commitment 
of  States  participating  in  this  second  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
is  to  reach  agreements  and  undertake  subsequent 
actions to achieve a more coherent and balanced vision 
of  migration  that  starts  with  the  recognition  of  its 
indisputable  human  dimension  and  its  contribution  to 
development in countries of both origin and destination. 
That is why we welcome the adoption of the declaration 
of this High-level Dialogue (resolution 68/4), which my 
country promoted and which highlights the importance 
of  this  issue  at  the  United  Nations,  especially  given 
its links with development and the need to give it due 
consideration in the post-2015 development agenda.
Given  the  complexity  and  magnitude  of  the 
migration phenomenon for our country, the Government 
of  Mexico,  led  by  President  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  has 
recognized it as an important priority for the Mexican 
State.  Its  cross-cutting  nature  necessarily  places  it 
among  the  major  national  challenges  that  Mexico  has 
identified  and  seeks  to  address  through  an  agenda 
agreed among the main political forces. The migration 
challenges  that  we  in  Mexico  must  respond  to  today 
arise from the specific needs presented by the various 
migrant flows.
We have one of the largest diasporas in the world, 
and therefore must undertake demanding and extensive 
efforts to care for and defend Mexicans abroad. We have 
already seen a substantial increase in irregular transit 
migration  through  our  territory,  with  the  subsequent 
challenges of ensuring migrants’ safety and full respect 
for their rights. There has been an increase in the number 
of  migrants  who  are  particularly  vulnerable,  which 
multiplies the efforts and services needed for legal care 
and assistance to them. Finally, the significant growth 
in  the  number  of  Mexicans  returning  to  the  country 
13-49787
41/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
deserves special mention, as we are approaching a net 
migration rate that is close to zero.
On behalf of the Government of Mexico, I would 
reiterate that the common effort to link migration and 
development  requires  that  we  improve  our  human 
rights  approach  and  assume  greater  responsibility  in 
it. It requires that we ensure more dignified treatment 
for  vulnerable  migrant  populations  and  that  nations 
continue  to  move  towards  decriminalizing  migrants. 
It  requires  that  international  aid  for  specific  projects 
and programmes give greater attention to appropriate, 
humane  and  legal  aspects  of  international  mobility. 
In  that  context,  we  affirm  that  the  conclusions  and 
commitments  arising  from  this  High-level  Dialogue 
with these aims will have Mexico’s full support.
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  The  issue  of  international 
migration  and  development  has  rightly  received 
increasing  international  attention.  Indonesia  therefore 
welcomes the convening of this High-level Dialogue on 
International Migration and Development.
Migration undeniably contributes to the development 
both of countries of origin and of destination. Over the 
past  20  years,  the  number  of  international  migrants 
has  increased  significantly.  For  Indonesia  alone,  it  is 
estimated that 4.5 million Indonesians make a living as 
migrant workers overseas.
However, despite all its positive impacts, migration, 
if  not  managed  properly  by  both  countries  of  origin 
and  destination,  can  pose  challenges  and  possibly 
have  negative  ramifications.  For  countries  of  origin, 
migration  can  affect  their  development  programmes 
due to “brain drain” and the decreased availability of 
highly skilled and talented workers. As for destination 
countries,  migration  can  cause  an  overreliance  on 
a  foreign  workforce  and  generate  social  problems, 
particularly  in  periods  of  high  unemployment  and 
economic uncertainty.
While migrants can undoubtedly benefit from many 
opportunities  provided  in  the  country  of  destination, 
individual  migrants  and 
their  families  are  also 
vulnerable to possible intolerance, abuse, exploitation 
and discrimination. It is therefore important that their 
vital role as agents of and contributors to development 
be  recognized  by  both  countries  of  origin  and  of 
destination.  To  that  end,  there  is  a  need  to  change 
societal mindsets and attitudes in destination countries 
so that they treat migrants equally and embrace them 
as their own. Similarly, migrants should also adapt to 
the  new  environment  and  communities.  They  need  to 
respect  and  abide  by  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the 
countries of destination.
It is pertinent to note in this context the important 
role  and  contribution  of  civil  society  in  finding 
responses to the challenges and opportunities posed by 
international migration.
the  negative 
Indonesia  has  its  own  challenges  to  face  in 
addressing 
impact  of  migration. 
Recognizing  the  increasing  problems  faced  by  our 
migrant  workers  —  mainly  unskilled  and  low-skilled 
workers, especially women, in informal sectors — the 
Government  of  Indonesia  continues  to  strengthen  its 
efforts for the promotion and protection of the rights of 
migrant workers.
At 
the  national 
level,  we  have  ratified  and 
implemented  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers 
and  Members  of  Their  Families.  Indonesia  calls  on 
countries  that  have  not  yet  ratified  the  Convention  to 
consider doing so at the earliest possible date. We are 
also expanding the scope of protection for our migrants 
by establishing citizens’ service units in our embassies 
and  consulates  in  various  countries,  and  we  have 
developed a “zero domestic workers road map 2017” to 
promote the safe and regular migration of professional 
and skilled workers.
At the regional level, Indonesia continues to promote 
and  implement  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Protection  and  Promotion 
of the Rights of Migrant Workers. In August, we hosted 
a  conference  in  Jakarta  on  regional  cooperation  on 
international migration, mobility and best practices on 
migration and development in South-East Asia.
At the multilateral level, we have actively engaged 
in  forums  on  migration  issues  such  as  the  Colombo 
Process,  the  Abu  Dhabi  Dialogue,  the  Global  Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development  and  this  High-level 
Dialogue.
Within the framework of the post-2015 development 
agenda,  the  important  role  of  migrants  as  agents  for 
development  has  been  emphasized  in  the  report  of 
the  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda,  which  the  President  of 
Indonesia had the honour to co-chair. We are pleased 
to note that the issue is also given adequate attention 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled  “A  life  of 
42/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
dignity for all” (A/68/202). In that context, we welcome 
the  declaration  adopted  at  this  High-level  Dialogue 
(resolution  68/4).  We  believe  it  can  pave  the  way  to 
addressing  migration  in  a  coherent,  comprehensive, 
balanced  and  action-oriented  way,  and  with  a 
people-centred focus.
As  the  declaration  clearly  reflects,  migration 
is  a  transnational  process  and  a  cross-cutting  and 
multidimensional  issue  by  nature.  Neither  countries 
of origin nor countries of destination are in a position 
to  address  every  issue  of  migration  alone.  Inter-State 
cooperation 
in  managing 
international migration is indeed essential.
is  a  must.  Partnership 
Mr.  Metnar  (Czech  Republic):  I  am  pleased  to 
represent the Czech Republic today at this High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development.
The Czech Republic fully supports the statements 
delivered earlier by the European Union’s Home Affairs 
Commissioner and Lithuania’s Minister of the Interior 
on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its member 
States.
The  United  Nations  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  offers  a 
unique opportunity to work towards a global agenda on 
the issue and to address persisting and new challenges 
linked to intemational migration. Since the first High-
level  Dialogue,  in  2006,  my  country  has  become  a 
destination for many foreign migrants. We have greatly 
valued  their  contributions  to  the  Czech  Republic’s 
social  and  economic  development  and  to  our  cultural 
diversity.  The  increase  in  migration  has  at  the  same 
time posed challenges for our State and has necessitated 
new  structures  and  legislation  to  manage  it.  We  have 
started  to  develop  policies  aimed  at  encouraging 
foreign  nationals  to  consider  the  Czech  Republic  as 
a destination. At the same time, we have put in place 
integration  strategies  for  legal  migrants,  which  are  a 
crucial element of migration and mobility.
Our accession to the European Union has linked our 
country with the global migration system. We have been 
working  on  international  cooperation  with  countries 
of  origin  as  an  integral  component  of  building  a  new 
migration system. The external dimension of migration 
is  a  necessary  part  of  overall  migration  management. 
We cooperate with our partner countries in a balanced 
manner, taking into account all aspects of migration.
Effective  migration  management  should  be  based 
on  intensive  cooperation  and  a  partnership  approach 
in managing migration among the countries of origin, 
transit  and  destination.  That  partnership  approach  is 
advocated  in  various  regional  consultative  processes, 
such  as  the  Prague  Process,  which  we  initiated 
during  our  presidency  of  the  EU.  It  is  essential  that 
complementarity  at  this  practical,  operational  level 
be  combined  with  a  consultative,  State-owned, 
non-decision-making  process.  The  Global  Forum  on 
Migration  and  Development,  which  arose  from  the 
first  High-level  Dialogue,  is  a  good  example  of  such 
cooperation.
As  we  see  it,  international  migration  is  without  a 
doubt a global agenda that needs to be addressed at the 
highest possible level. Practical solutions, however, are 
most  effective  when  implemented  at  the  regional  and 
local  levels.  Such  an  approach  ensures  that  migration 
management  is  implemented  at  the  level  as  close 
as  possible  to  migrants  and  has  a  migrant-centred 
approach.
Mr.  Al-Hajri  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, allow me to express the condolences of the State 
of Qatar to the families and States of the victims of the 
tragic accident that led to the sinking of a ship in the 
Mediterranean this morning. Such an accident gives our 
meeting today an added importance and responsibility.
Qatar  would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement delivered earlier by the representative of Fiji 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
I would also like to express our deep appreciation 
and gratitude to Mr. John Ashe, President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session,  for  holding  this 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development.  Our  dialogue  gives  the  international 
community  an  opportunity  to  evaluate  international 
migration  policies  and  programmes  and  to  enhance 
international  cooperation  and  partnership 
that 
field. Moreover, it gives us a chance to offer thoughts 
on  practical  measures  for  follow-up  on  integrating 
migration  and  the  flow  of  labour  into  the  post-2015 
sustainable development agenda.
in 
I would also like to thank the Secretary-General and 
the  guests  who  are  participating  in  today’s  important 
event. We realize the significance of foreign labour and 
migrant labour in achieving sustainable development in 
both countries of origin and destination, because they 
are an important, effective part of the implementation 
of  development  programmes  in  their  countries  of 
destination,  as  well  as  in  raising  standards  of  living, 
13-49787
43/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
alleviating  poverty  and  supporting  socioeconomic 
development  through  the  revenue  that  they  send 
back  home.  Moreover,  the  flow  of  workers  enhances 
economic  and  political  ties  and  deepens  friendships 
between their home countries and the countries where 
they work.
We would like to reaffirm the concept of a common 
responsibility  between  the  countries  of  origin  and  of 
destination and the need to devise approaches that are 
balanced  and  comprehensive  in  order  to  care  for  and 
protect the rights of migrant workers and their family 
members  and  to  absorb  those  who  return.  Since  we 
realize that xenophobia has been growing in some States, 
we affirm the need to continue working to defend the 
rights  of  migrants,  as  stipulated  by  international  and 
regional agreements and instruments, and to keep them 
away from politics and racist practices.
Because the State of Qatar cares about guaranteeing 
the  rights  of  all  residents  of  the  country,  with  no 
exception,  our  Constitution  stipulates  equality  for  all 
before the law. Article 35 of the Constitution states that 
all persons are equal before the law with no distinction 
on  the  basis  of  gender,  origin,  religion  or  language. 
Moreover,  article  52  stipulates  that  every  resident  of 
the  country  should  be  given  legitimate  residency  and 
must  be  treated  as  such  according  to  the  law.  Article 
30  stipulates  that  the  relationship  between  employers 
and  employees  must  be  based  on  social  justice.  That 
right must be guaranteed to all employees without any 
distinction as to the nationality of the worker, whether 
Qatari or foreign. Furthermore, the Qatari labour law 
of 2004 enhanced workers’ rights as stipulated by the 
permanent  Constitution  of  the  State,  which  supports 
the  means  of  protecting  those  rights  without  any 
discrimination.
to 
In  addition 
legislative  and  constitutional 
guarantees  for  workers’  rights,  the  State  of  Qatar 
has  signed  many  International  Labour  Organization 
conventions  and  has  taken  steps  to  guarantee  respect 
for  and  implementation  of  those  rights  by  signing 
bilateral agreements with many countries of origin in 
order to manage their recruitment process from the first 
contracting stage until the contract is fulfilled and the 
worker returns to his country of origin.
Today,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  progress  that 
Arab  States  have  made  by  participating  in  bilateral, 
regional  and  international  dialogues,  as  well  as  by 
engaging 
international  cooperation 
in  Arab  and 
in  international  migration.  We  wish  to  highlight 
the  regional  consultative  meeting  on  international 
migration and development in the Arab region, held in 
June  in  Cairo.  It  was  organized  by  the  Secretariat  of 
the  League  of  Arab  States,  the Economic  and  Social 
Commission  for  Western  Asia,  and  the  International 
Organization for Migration in preparation for our high-
level dialogue today.
With  regard  to  challenges  facing  the  Arab  world, 
including  the  rise  in  irregular  migration  and  the 
movement of skilled labour to and from the Arab world, 
we note the lack of statistics and accurate comparative 
studies of the effects of migration on development. We 
also note the lack of comprehensive policies to integrate 
migrants into the different policies of the State, whether 
social,  political  or  environmental.  In  most  cases, 
migration from the Arab world is the result of economic 
factors such as poverty and unemployment. Therefore, 
it  is  important  to  make  a  commitment  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals in a manner that would 
affect  migration,  especially  the  brain  drain.  We  must 
give  expatriate  communities  and  youth  a  larger  role 
in  order  to  participate  in  development.  We  believe  in 
the need to give expatriate Arab communities a voice 
in  the  dialogue  between  civilizations  and  religions, 
which would heighten their role as a bridge for cultural, 
economic  and  civilizational  interactions  between  the 
Arab world and the countries of destination.
We would also like to note the marked increase in 
the number of refugees and displaced persons resulting 
from  the  political  conditions  and  conflicts  that  some 
Arab  States  are  experiencing,  such  as  the  continued 
Israeli  occupation  of  Arab  territories,  which  imposes 
a burden on development plans and requires unifying 
international efforts to deal with the problem.
We  realize  that  the  issue  of  migration  and  the 
conditions  of  migrants  and  their  rights  no  longer 
represents  an  economic,  social  and  humanitarian 
concern alone. It has begun to have a political impact 
in  the  regional  and  international  arenas.  We  wish  to 
enhance  the  positive  aspect  of  Arab  migration  and 
minimize  the  negative  repercussions  it  could  have  on 
development as well as on scientific and technological 
development.  We  also  are  aware  of  the  effect  of  the 
Arab  brain  drain  on  developmental  efforts,  and  we 
would  like  to  integrate  the  issue  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda. We look forward to holding more 
regional  consultative  processes  in  order  to  exchange 
best practices, lessons learned and experiences so that 
44/46 
13-49787
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.25
we  can  overcome  the  challenges  we  face,  keeping  in 
mind  the  original  characteristics  and  particularities 
in  the  different  areas  of  the  world  in  terms  of  needs, 
requirements and related problems.
Mr.  García  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Migration is a phenomenon as old as humankind itself. 
Humans have always moved from one place to the next, 
but  only  recently  has  it  been  considered  a  problem. 
Only  recently  has  it  appeared  on  the  national  and 
international agendas.
of 
the 
those 
so-called 
The  countries  of  the  Central  American  region, 
particularly 
northern 
triangle — Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador — have 
a  migratory  situation  that  in  some  academic  circles 
has  been  qualified  as  explosive,  as  more  than  20  per 
cent  of  its  population  is  residing  abroad.  The  case  of 
El Salvador is paradigmatic, with more than 30 per cent 
of  our  population,  approximately  2.9  million,  living 
abroad. Of those, 2.5 million live in the United States, 
which  is  the  primary  destination  country  for  Central 
American and Salvadoran migration. In the latter case, 
the most recent census in the United States shows that 
the number of Salvadorans in that country increased by 
159 per cent.
Given  the  magnitude  of  the  migratory  flow  in 
the region and its persistence over time, international 
migration  has  increased  in  many  countries  of  the 
region,  consolidating  itself  as  structural  phenomenon 
for  the  economic  and  social  life  of  the  countries  of 
Central America, including El Salvador.
That  structure  has  come  about  in  at  least  three 
different ways. After three decades of intense migratory 
flow,  its  dynamic  and  nature  no  longer  depend  on  its 
original  causes.  Today,  it  depends  more  on  its  own 
internal logic with relative autonomy. Migration is now 
a long-term phenomenon and does not respond to short-
term or circumstantial measures. Short-term measures 
can affect its intensity and nature, but will not lead to a 
drastic modification.
Lastly, migration and remittances are essential when 
it comes to the operation of the economy and society in 
those countries. The weight of remittances in the gross 
domestic  product  is  such  that  it  is  no  longer  possible 
to achieve macroeconomic balance without them. That 
also has to do with access by large contingents of the 
population to health services, in particular sexual and 
reproductive health services, education and housing.
The  recognition  of 
the  structural  nature  of 
migration  produces  at  least  three  great  challenges  to 
States — first, a reduction in and the de-incentivization 
of forced migration, especially in the structural sense; 
secondly, the protection of the human rights of migrants 
in both transit and destination countries; and, thirdly, a 
strengthening  of  relations  with  the  diaspora  with  the 
country and communities of origin.
The first objective recognizes the complex factors 
that  arise  in  migration  and  are  fundamentally  related 
to economic factors, such as employment and income, 
and social factors, such as the link between individuals 
and their community and family, and to the depth of the 
relationship between the individual and the migratory 
phenomenon, inter alia.
The  second  objective,  de-incentivizing  migration, 
implies  creating  the  conditions  for  potential  migrants 
to put down roots in their home countries and in their 
communities.  The  second  objective  implies  a  shift  in 
the  focus  of  international  relations,  with  the  migrant 
being viewed independently of his status, as a subject 
with rights and thus worthy of the attention of the State. 
We are talking about building a new kind of citizenship.
Finally,  the  third  objective  makes  it  necessary 
to  support  the  idea  that  building  democracy  and 
development  is  possible  only  if  we  incorporate  the 
power  of  the  diaspora,  which  provides  far  more  than 
remittances, for example, investment opportunities and 
businesses in the diaspora, the strengthening of migrant 
organizations and their links to communities in terms 
of  social  investment  and  turning  “brain  drain”  into 
“brain  gain”.  In  the  end,  we  need  comprehensive  and 
integrating measures, with major efforts in the areas of 
coordination  among  institutions  and  the  participation 
of migrants themselves in the achievement of the goals 
I have referred to in this statement.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform 
members  that,  following  the  consecutive  meetings  of 
the Main Committees on Tuesday, 1 October 2013, the 
following  representatives  have  been  elected  Chairs  of 
the six Main Committees of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-eighth session and are accordingly members of 
the General Committee for this session.
They  are:  First  Committee,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  lbrahim  Dabbashi  (Libya);  the  Special  Political 
and  Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee), 
13-49787
45/46
A/68/PV.25 
03/10/2013
His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Enrique  García  González 
(El  Salvador);  Second  Committee,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abdou Salam Diallo (Senegal); Third Committee, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Stephan  Tafrov  (Bulgaria);  Fifth 
Committee, His Excellency Mr. Janne Taalas (Finland); 
and  Sixth  Committee,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Palitha 
Kohona (Sri Lanka). I congratulate the Chairs on their 
elections.
The  Chairs  of  the  six  Main  Committees  and  the 
21  Vice-Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  having 
been  elected,  the  General  Committee  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session  has  been  fully 
constituted in accordance with rule 38 of the rules of 
procedure.
The meeting rose at 2.40 p.m.
46/46 
13-49787
