United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
32nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 9 October 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.32
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 138 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/68/504)
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66 
of the rules of procedure, may I take it that the General 
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Fifth 
Committee that is before the Assembly today?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Statements  will 
therefore  be 
limited  to  explanations  of  vote.  The  positions  of 
delegations regarding the recommendation of the Fifth 
Committee have been made clear in the Committee and 
are reflected in the relevant official records.
May  I  remind  members  that  under  paragraph  7 
of  decision  34/401,  the  General  Assembly  agreed  that 
when  the  same  draft  resolution  is  considered  in  a 
Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation 
should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its  vote  only  once, 
that is, either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, 
unless  that  delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is 
different from its vote in the Committee. I also remind 
delegations  that,  also  in  accordance  with  decision 
34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes.
the 
recommendation  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
Before  we  begin 
take  action  on 
to 
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same 
manner as was done in the Fifth Committee.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Fifth Committee adopted 
the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Scale  of  assessments 
for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter”, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 68/5).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 138.
Agenda items 14 and 118 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Draft resolution (A/68/L.4)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  under 
agenda  items  14  and  118,  the  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  68/1  at 
its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on 
20 September. Members are reminded that the debate 
on  agenda  item  14  and  agenda  item  118  will  be  held 
jointly with item 125, entitled “United Nations reform: 
measures and proposals”, on 20 November.
Permit me now to make a statement.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-50522 (E)
*1350522*
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
It  is  my  pleasure  to  present  for  adoption  the 
outcome  document  that  was  endorsed  by  Heads  of 
State and Government and heads of delegations at last 
week’s special event to follow up efforts made towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  highlight  that  this  outcome 
document  is,  first  and  foremost,  a  call  for  action  in 
the  accelerated  commitment  to  address  the  gaps  and 
unevenness in the MDG process and to respond to the 
formidable challenges that remain on the path to their 
fulfilment.
Many here will no doubt recall that at the special 
event  I  invited  the  Secretary-General  to  compile  a 
matrix  of  commitments  pledged  by  Member  States, 
international  organizations,  private-sector  partners 
and civil society associated with the acceleration of the 
achievement of the MDGs. The final results will soon 
be  made  available,  but  initially  several  billion  dollars 
have  been  mobilized,  and  actions  and  pledges  are 
coming from dozens of countries. With some 825 days 
to go, we must remain vigilant in our collective quest to 
fulfil the MDGs.
The  document  before  the  Assembly  for  adoption 
also sets the initial signposts to define an ambitious and 
inclusive post-2015 development agenda. Our collective 
commitment to this text should catalyse a final push to 
create real and meaningful change by making further 
progress  on  the  MDGs  and  defining  the  contours  of 
a  development  agenda  with  the  potential  to  have  an 
impact on the trajectory of sustainable development for 
decades to come.
Such  an  agreement  required  a  collective  sense 
of  partnership  by  all  parties.  I  pay  special  tribute  to 
participants’ collective efforts under the able leadership 
of the Permanent Representatives of Ireland and South 
Africa,  whom  I  wish  to  commend  today  for  their 
tireless efforts. I wish also to highlight the invaluable 
stewardship of our Secretary-General and his dedicated 
team  for  their  efforts  aimed  at  ensuring  a  systemic 
commitment to an integrated development framework.
I  readily  acknowledge  the  fact  that  this  outcome 
document,  however significant,  represents  just  a  first 
step in a series of efforts that will require us to work 
collectively between now and 2015 if we are to achieve 
the  dual  goals  of  fulfilling  the  remaining  MDGs  and 
launching a successor arrangement that is the post-2015 
development agenda.
Today  more  than  ever  the  depth,  breadth  and 
scope  of  these  twin  challenges  require  our  concerted 
efforts  and  collective  action.  That  means  that  new 
levels  of  support,  collaboration  and  partnership  will 
be needed from all stakeholders. Earlier this week we 
heard how reliable financing will be critical in driving 
this  dual-track  process.  Countries  will  need  to  make 
every  effort  to  mobilize  domestic  resources,  yet  at 
the same time there is a vital role and need for donor 
countries to meet their official development assistance 
commitments,  including  through  the  provision  of 
reliable and timely financial resources.
During  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  a 
number  of  ongoing  processes  will  begin  to  converge 
in  preparation  for  consideration  and,  ultimately, 
negotiations  at  the  start  of  the  sixty-ninth  session. 
The  outcome  document  speaks  to  these  processes, 
emphasizing the need to achieve meaningful, balanced 
and  forward-looking  arrangements  and  results  within 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals,  the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts 
on  Sustainable  Development  Financing,  and  in  the 
process to develop options for a mechanism facilitating 
the transfer of technology. My team and I stand ready 
to  provide  assistance  in  this  collective  quest  as  the 
Assembly makes progress in all these areas.
The document also underscores that the preparation 
for  the  post-2015  development  agenda  will  benefit 
from the three high-level events and the three thematic 
debates  I  will  convene  during  the  second  part  of  the 
sixty-eighth session. My team and I will endeavour to 
make  them  complementary  and  mutually  reinforcing 
so as to enable further progress on each and every one 
of the priority areas I have identified, all of which are 
reflected in the outcome document.
While there is much to be done, we can now say that 
we have begun the intergovernmental process aimed at 
putting in place a post-2015 development agenda, which 
will require sustained and committed work from each 
and every member. This is indeed an exciting time for 
our  United  Nations.  I  welcome  the  adoption  of  this 
resolution, and I look forward to setting the stage for 
the post-2015 development agenda together with all in 
the Assembly.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/68/L.4,  entitled  “Outcome  document  of  the  special 
event  to  follow  up  efforts  made  towards  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals”.  In  connection 
2/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
with  the  draft  resolution,  I  shall  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): In connection with draft 
resolution  A/68/L.4,  entitled  “Outcome  document  of 
the  special  event  to  follow  up  efforts  made  towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals”, I wish 
to  put  on  record,  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-General, 
the following statement on the financial implications, 
in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of 
the General Assembly.
In  operative  paragraph  26  of  the  draft  resolution, 
the  General  Assembly  would  request  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  convene,  in  a  timely 
manner,  intergovernmental  consultations  to  achieve 
agreement  on  organizational  modalities  for  a  summit 
for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda. 
Under  the  terms  of  paragraph  26,  the  decision  on  the 
organizational  aspects  and  the  dates  of  the  summit 
are  yet  to  be  determined.  Therefore,  in  the  absence 
of  modalities  for  meetings  and  documentation  of  the 
summit,  it  is  not  possible  at  present  to  determine  the 
conference  servicing  requirements.  Thus,  as  soon 
as  specific  decisions  on  the  dates,  format,  scope  and 
modalities are determined, the matter will be reported 
to the Assembly in accordance with rule 153 of its rules 
of procedure.
The date of the meeting will have to be determined in 
consultation with the Department for General Assembly 
and  Conference  Management.  Should  the  Assembly 
adopt draft resolution A/68/L.4, the Secretary-General 
will  submit  details  of  the  financial  implications,  if 
applicable, in accordance with established procedures 
when the modalities of the meeting are determined.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/68/L.4,  entitled 
“Outcome  document  of  the  special  event  to  follow 
up  efforts  made  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals”. May I take it that the Assembly 
decides to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/68/L.4 was adopted (resolution 
68/6).
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Fiji, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.
Mr. Thomson (Fiji): I have the honour to make this 
statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The 
Group welcomes the adoption of resolution 68/6.
First let me express the Group’s appreciation to you, 
Mr.  President,  for  submitting  the  outcome  document 
of the special event to follow up efforts made towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
and  for  its  adoption  today  by  the  General  Assembly. 
I  wish  also  to  convey  the  Group’s  appreciation  to  the 
co-facilitators  of  the  consultation  process  for  this 
outcome  document  —  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  South  Africa  and  Ireland,  whose  tireless  efforts 
and  commitment  have  ensured  that  we  have  arrived 
successfully at this important occasion today. We wish 
to underscore the importance of this outcome document 
to us, as the Group of 77 (G-77) and China, and to the 
General  Assembly  in  capturing  our  collective  will  as 
we  move  forward  steadfastly  towards  achieving  our 
development aspirations for this millennium.
While  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  were 
focused on developing countries, what has been outlined 
in  the  outcome  document  is  intended  to  result  in  the 
formulation of a post-2015 development agenda that is 
applicable to all. The road map set out in the document 
ensures  that  the  international  community  as  a  whole 
is  involved  and  engaged  throughout  in  a  transparent 
intergovernmental process to
“craft  a  strong  post-2015  development  agenda, 
that  will  build  on  the  foundations  laid  by  the 
Millennium  Development  goals,  complete 
the 
unfinished business and respond to new challenges” 
(resolution 68/6, para. 16).
During  the  special  event,  our  leaders  expressed 
the view that we should take advantage of this historic 
opportunity 
reaffirm  our  collective  political 
commitment and redouble our efforts to accelerate the 
achievement of the MDGs with a sense of urgency and 
determination.
to 
As  we  set  our  sights  on  the  framework  that  will 
take  us  beyond  2015,  it  is  important  that  we  reaffirm 
our  resolve  that  our  work  must  remain  guided  by  the 
principles  and  values  enshrined  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  the  outcome  document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  and 
the 
outcomes of all the major United Nations conferences 
and summits in the economic, social and related fields.
13-50522
3/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
We wish also to reiterate that the principle of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  is  of  paramount 
importance  as  a  guiding  principle  in  crafting  the 
future  development  agenda.  As  developing  countries, 
we  reaffirm  our  conviction  that  the  new  development 
agenda  must  take  into  account  our  differing  national 
circumstances and development priorities.
In  line  with  the  request  reflected  in  paragraph 
26  of  the  outcome  document  —  that  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  convene,  in  a  timely  manner, 
intergovernmental consultations to achieve agreement 
on  organizational  modalities  for  the  development 
summit in 2015 — I wish to express the readiness of the 
G-77 and China to work with you, Sir, and our partners 
in making that a reality.
Mr.  Donoghue  (Ireland):  I  make  these  remarks 
on  behalf  of  both  co-facilitators  of  the  special  event. 
It  was  a  great  honour  and  privilege  for  me  and  for 
my  predecessor,  Anne  Anderson,  to  be  appointed 
co-facilitator  of  the  special  event,  along  with  my 
colleague,  Ambassador  Mamabolo  of  South  Africa. 
I  am  therefore  particularly  pleased  to  be  present  for 
the  formal  adoption  of  the  outcome  document  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  special  event  as 
resolution 68/6, following its endorsement by our Heads 
of State and Government and heads of delegations on 
25 September.
We would like to take this opportunity to warmly 
thank colleagues for their hard work over many months 
in coming to an agreement on this important consensus 
outcome document. It is one that we can be very pleased 
with.  It  makes  very  clear  the  urgency  of  accelerating 
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in all developing countries, 
and particularly in those countries most lagging behind. 
It  calls  for  particular  attention  to  be  paid  to  the  most 
off-track MDGs and to those who are most vulnerable 
and  disadvantaged.  It  highlights  the  central  role  of 
the  strengthened  global  partnership  for  development. 
It  sets  out  the  contours  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda and a road map to 2015, which will help to guide 
our work over the coming two years, culminating in a 
summit in September 2015 for the adoption of the post-
2015 development agenda.
We  have  much  to  do  in  these  two  years.  We  are 
in agreement that we must achieve the promise of the 
MDGs.  In  addition,  we  will  be  working  to  craft  an 
ambitious post-2015 agenda. We firmly believe that the 
MDGs special event and its outcome will help us in this 
important endeavour.
In  closing,  on  behalf  of  Ambassador  Mamabolo 
and myself, may I thank you, Sir, and your predecessor 
Mr. Jeremić for your leadership, and the Secretariat’s 
Department of Economic and Social Affairs, conference 
services  and  others  in  the  United  Nations  system  for 
their assistance. Finally, once again, I thank colleagues 
for their advice, assistance and hard work in agreeing 
the outcome document that we have just adopted.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr.  Mayr-Harting  (European  Union):  On  behalf 
of  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States,  let  me 
congratulate you, Mr. President, on the way in which 
you chaired the special event. Let me also congratulate 
you on your decision to place the subjects that were on 
the agenda of the special event and the whole post-2015 
issue at the heart of your presidency.
I should also like to thank the two co-facilitators, 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  South  Africa  and 
Ireland, for their tireless efforts. Their work is greatly 
appreciated.
We welcome the adoption of the outcome document 
(resolution 68/6), which represents a key step forward 
and  a  good  balance  between  the  positions  expressed 
over months of consultations. We welcome the fact that 
it captures in a concise manner key messages both on 
the  final  push  towards  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) in the run-up to 2015, and on charting the 
way  forward  post-2015.  The  document  is  particularly 
valuable 
that  we  face  common 
challenges and have a shared agenda. It paves the way 
for a more sustainable, equitable and prosperous world 
for all, a world free of poverty.
in  underscoring 
the  emphasis  on 
We  welcome  the  resolve  to  target  the  most  off-
track  MDGs  and  that  among  and  within  developing 
countries,  those  that  have  been  left  furthest  behind 
require  our  most  urgent  attention  and  support.  We 
welcome 
the  Monterrey/Doha 
framework  on  financing  for  development  as  a  key 
reference point. National ownership, with each country 
bearing the primary responsibility for its development, 
and  the  mobilization  of  all  resources,  public  and 
private, domestic and international, and their effective 
and innovative use will be crucial to implementing the 
future framework.
4/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
With  respect  to  the  road  map  to  the  post-2015 
framework,  we  appreciate  that  key  elements  have 
been agreed and are included in the final text, notably 
the  need  for  a  coherent  approach  that  integrates  in  a 
balanced  manner  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development,  working  towards  a  single  universal 
framework and set of goals, and the reference to peace 
and security, gender equality, human rights, the rule of 
law and democratic governance.
We  will  continue  to  be  guided  by  the  values  and 
principles  enshrined  in  previously  agreed  texts  and 
reaffirm  all  the  principles  of  the  Rio  Declaration  on 
Environment and Development, including, inter alia, the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
as set out in principle 7 of the Rio Declaration.
We  wish  to  restate  our  views  on  this  matter.  We 
underline that principle 7 is explicitly related to global 
environmental degradation and the respective pressures. 
Agreeing on the continuous relevance of this principle 
cannot  be  interpreted  as  its  extension  to  the  entirety 
of issues to be addressed in the post-2015 development 
agenda. The world has changed dramatically over the 
last  decades,  including  the  nature  and  magnitude  of 
our global challenges, their cause and effects, and our 
respective capabilities to address them. The post-2015 
development agenda needs to respond to these evolving 
dynamics. The European Union and its member States 
are  committed  to  addressing  these  evolving  realities 
and  responsibilities,  and  acknowledge  the  particular 
situation and concerns of the most vulnerable countries. 
All  Member  States  must  play  their  part  in  support  of 
countries most lagging behind.
We  will  engage  constructively  in  all  upcoming 
processes whose outputs will feed into the preparation 
of  the  September  2015  summit.  We  still  have  a  long 
way  to  go.  The  stakes  have  never  been  so  high,  the 
challenges never so great. But business as usual is not 
an option.
Ms. Robl (United States of America): We are very 
pleased to adopt this outcome document (resolution 68/6) 
of  the  special  event  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  outcome  document  reflects  the 
strength of our collective commitment to fight poverty, 
accelerate  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  and  unite 
around a common vision for the future. We would like 
to express our particular appreciation for the excellent 
facilitation provided by the Permanent Representatives 
of  South  Africa  and  Ireland,  as  well  as  for  your  own 
role, Mr. President.
Our consensus demonstrates the determination of 
Member States to reach common ground on topics that 
are difficult yet critical for the post-2015 development 
agenda.  This  will  provide  a  strong  foundation  for 
our  work  going  forward.  As  we  engage  in  follow-on 
discussions we should be mindful of staying within the 
overall budget allocations for 2014 and 2015.
Mr.  Ueda  (Japan):  My  delegation  also  welcomes 
the adoption of resolution 68/6 today. The special event 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  held 
two  weeks  ago  was  a  great  success.  In  that  regard,  I 
would  like  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to 
you,  Mr.  President,  and  to  the  co-facilitators,  the 
Ambassadors  of  Ireland  and  South  Africa,  as  well  as 
their team, and the Secretariat for their hard work and 
tremendous efforts to lead us to adopt the resolution in 
the General Assembly today.
The special event and its outcome document provide 
a great opportunity to renew our political commitment 
to achieving the MDGs by the end of 2015. The special 
event also succeeded in laying out a clear work plan to 
integrate various mediation processes on the post-2015 
development agenda with a view to working towards a 
single framework and set of goals.
We think that such a process is very important to 
formulate an ambitious post-2015 development agenda. 
We therefore look forward to fruitful intergovernmental 
consultations, 
agreement  on 
organizational  modalities  for  the  summit  guided  by 
you, Mr. President, and we will constructively engage. 
In this regard, my delegation hopes that the modalities 
of the summit to be negotiated and decided will be the 
most efficient and cost-effective.
including  on 
an 
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt):  I  should  like  to  start  by 
congratulating you, Mr. President, and registering our 
appreciation  of  the  excellent  work  done  by  the  two 
co-facilitators, the representatives of Ireland and South 
Africa.
I wish to associate my remarks with the statement 
and  observations  delivered  earlier  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China.
My delegation welcomes the adoption of the outcome 
document and joins the consensus in that regard. In this 
context, I would like to stress the following points.
Poverty eradication is the greatest global challenge 
facing  the  world  today.  Eradicating  poverty  is  an 
13-50522
5/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
indispensable requirement for sustainable development. 
That was reaffirmed at the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development after extensive negotiations 
and was finally adopted at the level of Heads of State 
and Government at the Conference. We believe that this 
balance should be preserved and not altered.
The world has undergone far-reaching changes in the 
past two decades. Significant progress has been made in 
many important fields of development through national 
and  international  efforts.  Yet  developing  countries 
are  still  facing  serious  problems  in  advancing  their 
level  of  development  and  changing  the  unfavourable 
international  economic  environment.  The  number  of 
people living in absolute poverty has increased in many 
developing  countries.  In  facing  these  challenges,  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, 
as well as the right to development, remain crucial as 
a foundation of current and future global development 
efforts, in particular for promoting the implementation 
of the global partnership for development.
My  delegation  understands  that  the  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  will 
continue to guide our work with respect to developing 
the post-2015 development agenda.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda items 14 and 
118.
Agenda item 111 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/68/1)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
Secretary-General  presented  his  annual 
report, 
document  A/68/1,  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  5th 
plenary meeting, on 24 September.
Mr. Ismail (Brunei Darussalam): I have the honour 
to deliver this statement on behalf of the 10 members of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN): 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia, 
the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam.
At the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank the Secretary-General for his report on the work 
of  the  Organization  (A/68/1).  The  report  provides  a 
comprehensive and detailed overview of the challenges 
and opportunities for this Organization. Indeed, there 
is a need for the United Nations constantly to keep up 
and  adapt  to  changing  trends  as  well  as  to  anticipate 
and address emerging and new challenges accordingly.
ASEAN  greatly  values  its  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations. The adoption of the Joint Declaration on 
Comprehensive Partnership between the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the United Nations in 2011 
affirmed  the  mutual  commitment  to  further  advance 
and intensify the level of cooperation and to strengthen 
the framework of cooperation between ASEAN and the 
United  Nations.  In  this  connection,  we  welcome  the 
adoption  of  resolution  67/110,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations”. It identifies important points 
of cooperation that will help us to address global issues 
of  mutual  concern,  including  peace  and  security, 
sustainable growth and development, human rights and 
the rule of law.
ASEAN  looks  forward  to  the  upcoming  ASEAN-
United Nations summit to be held on 10 October 2013 in 
Brunei Darussalam to review ASEAN-United Nations 
relations and to discuss its future direction as well as 
to exchange views on regional and international issues. 
We view this summit as an effective tool to strengthen 
the partnership between both organizations.
The theme for ASEAN this year “Our People, Our 
Future Together” is intended to highlight the important 
role that the people of ASEAN play in its community-
building  efforts  to  help  ensure  the  region’s  future. 
ASEAN  believes  that  each  member  State  can  prosper 
from  the  success  of  its  neighbours,  and  at  the  same 
time  individual  and  collective  achievements  will  also 
contribute  to  the  global  development  process.  In  this 
connection, during the recent Summit of the Group of 
20  in  St.  Petersburg,  Brunei  Darussalam,  as  ASEAN 
Chair, affirmed the importance of achieving inclusive 
and sustainable growth. That very much remains a core 
ASEAN goal.
ASEAN  also  remains  committed  to  establishing 
the  ASEAN  Economic  Community  by  2015.  In  this 
regard,  we  will  continue  to  implement  cooperation 
initiatives  and  measures  that  will  support  the  free 
flow  of  trade,  investment  and  people  in  the  region, 
narrow  development  gaps  and  enhance  ASEAN’s 
competitiveness.
To  achieve  such  inclusive  and  sustainable  growth 
and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  move 
forward  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  ASEAN 
has also adopted the Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration 
6/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
on  Youth  Volunteerism  and  Entrepreneurship.  That 
Declaration  calls  on  young  professionals  to  offer 
voluntary  community  services  in  areas  such  as  rural 
development  and  poverty  eradication,  disaster  relief, 
health,  education  and  the  environment,  while  at  the 
same time supporting vulnerable groups and fostering 
entrepreneurial  skills.  In  this  regard,  ASEAN  notes 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  in  launching  the 
“Global Education First Initiative” and the appointment 
of the first Envoy on Youth.
Additionally,  ASEAN  held  the  ASEAN  Regional 
Forum  Disaster  Relief  Exercise  2013,  co-hosted  by 
Thailand and the Republic of Korea from 7 to 11 May. 
That was one of the largest civilian-military exercises 
of its kind in the region. Besides that, we welcomed the 
Mentawai Megathrust Exercise 2013-2014 in Indonesia, 
which  involved  the  East  Asia  Summit  participating 
countries,  from  20  to  26  April.  The  regional  ASEAN 
Disaster Emergency Response Simulation Exercise will 
be held sometime this month in Viet Nam.
On  security  matters,  ASEAN  will  continue  to 
remain  a  net  contributor  to  international  peace  and 
security  based  on  the  rule  of  law  and  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  ASEAN  upholds  the  Treaty  of 
Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia as an essential 
instrument for governing stable relations between and 
among parties within and outside the region. ASEAN 
welcomed  Norway’s  accession  to  the  Treaty  in  July 
2013.
in  accordance  with 
ASEAN supports international disarmament efforts, 
particularly  towards  achieving  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world.  ASEAN  will  continue  its  engagement  with 
nuclear-weapon  States 
the 
objectives and principles of the Treaty on the Southeast 
Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  and  the  ASEAN 
Charter, particularly with regard to their signing of the 
Protocol to the Treaty without reservations and as early 
as possible. We also encourage further cooperation in 
line with the ASEAN Plan of Action to Strengthen the 
Implementation  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Southeast  Asia 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone (2013-2017).
In addition, various seminars and workshops were 
also  held  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular on conflict prevention, preventive diplomacy 
and counter-terrorism.
On 
and 
disaster-management 
humanitarian 
assistance  efforts,  ASEAN  established 
landmark 
cooperation  among  the  defence  forces  of  the  ASEAN 
Defence  Ministers  Meeting-Plus 
(ADMM-Plus) 
countries.  This  is  to  enhance  confidence-building, 
regional capacity and coordination through the ADMM-
Plus Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief and 
Military Medicine Exercise, held in Brunei Darussalam 
from 16 to 20 June this year. That large-scale exercise, 
involving more than 3,000 personnel, enhanced practical 
cooperation in the area of humanitarian assistance and 
disaster relief and built trust and confidence among the 
ADMM-Plus militaries.
On  peacekeeping,  the  second  meeting  of  the 
ADMM-Plus Experts Working Group on Peacekeeping 
Operations was held in Manila in June 2012, co-chaired by 
the Philippines and New Zealand. The meeting resulted 
in an initial database of profiles of the peacekeeping-
related  capabilities  of  participating  States.  With  that 
database, areas of complementarity and cooperation can 
now  be  identified  to  help  further  boost  the  capacities 
of  participating  States,  including  in  the  efficient 
generation  of  forces  for  peacekeeping  deployment. 
While the diversity of current peacekeeping operations 
capacity  is  a  challenging  reality,  peacekeeping  offers 
rich potential for furthering cooperation among States 
within and outside ASEAN.
On  human  rights,  ASEAN  adopted  the  ASEAN 
Human  Rights  Declaration  on  18  November  2012  in 
Phnom  Penh  and  acknowledged  that  that  Declaration 
was a milestone in the Association’s efforts to promote 
and  protect  human  rights  in  the  region.  We  also 
welcomed  the  outcome  of  the  international  workshop 
on enhancing cooperation between United Nations and 
regional mechanisms for the promotion and protection 
of  human  rights,  held  from  12  to  14  December  2012 
in  Geneva,  as  well  as  the  outcome  of  the  Intensive 
Learning Workshop on Women’s Human Rights for the 
Regional and National Secretariats to ASEAN Human 
Rights Bodies, held from 18 to 21 March 2013 in Bali, 
Indonesia.
To conclude, we very much hope that the collective 
efforts  of  ASEAN  will  contribute  towards  the  United 
Nations  own  work  in  promoting  peace,  security  and 
stability, as well as inclusive and sustainable growth for 
all. It remains fully resolved to work closely to achieve 
those ends.
Mr. Misra (India): I am privileged to address the 
General  Assembly  today.  Let  me  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
13-50522
7/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
I thank the Secretary-General for his annual report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization.  It  covers  a  wide 
spectrum  of  issues  and  provides  information  on  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations.  It  also  underscores 
the global and interconnected nature of the challenges 
we  face  and  highlights  the  unfinished  agenda  of 
development  and  reform.  It  is  important  that  the 
sociopolitical  challenges  in  the  West  Asian  region  be 
addressed in an inclusive and peaceful manner.
With  fewer  than  850  days  remaining  for  their 
fulfilment,  we  need  to  accord  the  highest  priority  to 
the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Substantial  progress  has  been  made 
in  reducing  poverty,  yet  our  gains  and  progress  have 
been uneven and short on expectations. The Secretary-
General’s report points out that almost 1 billion people 
will still live in extreme poverty in 2015. The eradication 
of poverty therefore must remain the core, overarching 
objective  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
including under the sustainable development goals. The 
quest for sustainability will ring hollow as long as deep 
imbalances in the consumption of natural resources and 
carbon-intensive lifestyles in the developed world exist. 
The  fact  still  remains  that  the  richest  billion  people 
consume  two  thirds  of  the  Earth’s  resources  whereas 
the bottom billion consume a meagre 1 per cent.
On climate change, India remains fully committed 
to crafting an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive 
outcome to negotiations in accordance with the principles 
and  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. As we embark on the 
process  of  framing  sustainable  development  goals, 
crucial issues such as that of resource mobilization, be 
it official development assistance, technology transfer, 
trade or foreign direct investment, must find appropriate 
priority and be enshrined in the principles of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  and  equity.  Insofar 
as  our  development  partnership  initiatives  go,  we  are 
resolved to carry forward and expand our multifaceted 
and vibrant cooperation with Africa, including through 
the framework of the India-Africa Forum Summit.
Similarly,  we  will  continue  to  build  on  our 
commitments  for  enhanced  cooperation  with 
the 
least  developed  countries,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries and the small island developing States within 
the overall rubric of South-South cooperation.
Terrorism  remains  a  grave  threat  to  security  and 
stability everywhere and extracts a heavy toll of innocent 
lives  throughout  the  world.  From  Africa  to  Asia  we 
have  seen  several  manifestations  of  this  menace.  The 
international  community  has  long  acknowledged  the 
ever-present  and  pervasive  threat  posed  by  terrorism. 
No country, city or region is immune from this global 
scourge.
against 
convention 
to  procrastinate  on  concluding 
Yet,  regrettably,  we  have  failed  ourselves  by 
continuing 
the 
comprehensive 
international 
terrorism. It is time that Member States summoned the 
necessary political will to agree to the comprehensive 
convention  against  international  terrorism  as  a  sound 
legal  framework  for  the  fight  against  terrorism.  We 
need  concerted  global  action.  Such  action  should  be 
predicated  on  zero  tolerance  towards  terrorism  and 
aimed at systematically dismantling the infrastructure 
of terrorism.
its  very 
India  has  had  a  proud  association  with  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  since 
inception. 
More  than  150,000  of  our  uniformed  personnel  have 
participated  in  this  flagship  endeavour  of  the  United 
Nations.  As  peacekeeping  moves  forward,  we  must 
remain  mindful  of  the  challenges  of  operating  in 
increasingly  complex  environments.  Not  only  should 
the mandates be realistic, but their framing should be 
inclusive  of  all  stakeholders  in  a  meaningful  manner. 
Ambitious  mandates  require  matching  resources.  We 
also need to be mindful of the safety of peacekeepers 
while crafting such mandates.
It  is  also  imperative  that  those  who  threaten 
and  attack  United  Nations  peacekeepers  be  held 
accountable. Cases where United Nations peacekeepers 
have  laid  down  their  lives  due  to  attacks  by  militias 
and  non-State  actors  must  be  thoroughly  investigated 
and  the  perpetrators  of  such  acts  brought  to  justice 
expeditiously.
the 
initiatives 
the  Secretariat, 
We  note  with  appreciation 
to 
modernize  and  reform 
including 
through  large-scale  business  transformation  projects 
such  as  the  new  enterprise  resource  planning  system, 
Umoja, 
International  Public  Sector  Accounting 
Standards,  managed  mobility  of  Secretariat  staff, 
and  the  capital  master  plan.  While  each  involves 
considerable  investment,  we  see  them  as  important 
drivers in modernizing the United Nations.
However, it is our deep-rooted conviction that the 
relevance of the United Nations ultimately hinges on a 
more fundamental reform of its governance architecture, 
which is frozen in another era that perpetuates the rights 
8/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
of the “haves” of the mid-1940s. It is only through such 
governance  reform  that  the  United  Nations  can  truly 
invigorate action on issues of pressing global concern, 
be  it  issues  of  peace  and  security,  climate  change, 
development, or human rights.
Let  me  therefore  conclude  by  raising  an  issue 
that  inexplicably  does  not  find  even  a  mention  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report, and that is  the important issue 
of  Security  Council  reform,  where  intergovernmental 
negotiations have not made much progress in spite of a 
clear affirmation by an overwhelming majority of the 
Member  States  of  the  need  for  expansion  in  both  the 
permanent and non-permanent categories.
this  by 
immediately 
commencing  real  negotiations  based  on  a  negotiating 
text, as is the case in all United Nations processes. It is 
imperative to impart a sense of urgency and momentum 
to this process by pressing for a results-based timeline 
to achieve early reforms of the Security Council.
to  build  on 
We  need 
The  year  2015,  which  marks 
the  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations as well as 10 years 
since the Millennium Summit Declaration, in which our 
Heads of State and Government mandated us to achieve 
early  reforms  of  the  Security  Council,  will  therefore 
be  an  important  occasion  to  deliver  some  concrete 
results  and  an  expanded  Security  Council  reflecting 
contemporary realities.
Mr.  Och  (Mongolia):  First,  I  wish  to  extend  my 
delegation’s deep appreciation to the Secretary-General 
for his annual report on the work of the Organization. 
I  believe  that  our  discussions,  based  on  a  thorough 
review and assessment of the work of the Organization, 
will  stimulate  new  thinking  on  how  we  can  scale  up 
our  efforts  in  response  to  the  many  challenges  that 
the world community faces today, and in particular on 
ways of accelerating progress towards the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  on  the  process  of 
defining  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In  this 
respect,  Mongolia  welcomes  the  outcome  document 
of the special event to follow up efforts made towards 
achieving the MDGs just adopted by the Assembly.
As  the  report  states,  the  MDGs  have  improved 
the lives of billions of people and helped to set global 
and  national  priorities  and  fuel  action  on  the  ground. 
However,  the  report  also  reveals  that  unless  we  take 
resolute action, almost 1 billion people will still live in 
extreme  poverty  in  2015.  Mothers  will  die  needlessly 
in  childbirth  and  children  will  suffer  and  die  from 
preventable  diseases.  Fifty-seven  million  children  are 
not in school, and 73 million young people are out of 
work. Therefore we need more concrete action.
I commend the Secretary-General for his important 
initiatives, including the launch of the Global Education 
First Initiative, which secured more than $1.5 billion in 
commitments.
Mongolia  makes  every  effort  to  contribute  to 
international  endeavours  aimed  at  achieving 
the 
MDGs.  Promoting  literacy  and  education  are  among 
our priorities at the national, regional and international 
levels. As members are well aware, Mongolia initiated a 
United Nations Literacy Decade, which was successfully 
observed  from  2003  to  2012.  It  is  gratifying  to  note 
that the Decade was marked by steady progress, with 
millions of young people and adults becoming literate. 
While  national  Governments  were  the  prime  movers 
in this regard, development partners played significant 
roles.  In  the  positioning  of  literacy  as  a  human  right 
and  a  means  to  achieve  sustainable  development  in 
poverty  reduction,  United  Nations  entities  provided 
various  forms  of  normative  and  operational  support. 
I  wish  to  commend  them  —  in  particular  UNESCO, 
the main coordinator and implementing agency for the 
Decade — for their dedication and continued effort.
goals, 
including 
Another initiative put forward by Mongolia at the 
United Nations became a General Assembly resolution 
on  education  for  democracy  (resolution  67/18).  The 
resolution  recognizes  that  education  is  key  to  the 
strengthening of democratic institutions, the realization 
of human rights and the achievement of all international 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  invites  Governments,  agencies 
and  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  and 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations 
to  intensify  their  efforts  to  promote  education  for 
democracy.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  draw 
the  attention  of  Member  States  to  the  importance  of 
implementing that resolution, as we will be reviewing 
its  implementation  at  the  next  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.
While  accelerating  our  efforts  towards  achieving 
all the MDGs worldwide, we have started the process 
of  defining  the  United  Nations  development  agenda 
beyond 2015. My delegation greatly appreciates the steps 
undertaken by the Secretary-General in this regard. We 
fully  share  the  view  that  the  report  of  the  High-level 
Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  greatly  contributes  to  the 
ongoing process of consultations at various levels.
13-50522
9/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
We  believe  that  green  and  sustainable  economic 
development  should  be  adequately  reflected  in  the 
post-2015 development agenda in order to address the 
widely shared need to work towards one unified global 
development  agenda  with  sustainable  development  at 
its centre.
Like  many  others,  Mongolia 
is  extremely 
vulnerable to climate change. The country faces serious 
environmental  problems  such  as  desertification, 
pasture degradation, natural disasters, droughts, water-
and forest-resource depletion and air and soil pollution. 
These issues have a negative impact on the livelihood, 
health  and  well-being  of  the  nomadic  herders  and 
ordinary Mongolians.
Increasing 
economic 
consumption, 
growth 
and  the  rapid  growth  of  the  mining  sector  are 
obviously  intensifying  the  pressure  on  nature  and  the 
environment. Both sound policies and joint efforts are 
essential to solve this challenge. Continuing efforts are 
being  made  to  address  the  environmental  challenges 
by  establishing  and  expanding  the  necessary  legal 
frameworks,  organizing  various  meetings,  holding 
round-table  discussions  and  implementing  national 
programmes  and  projects.  In  2011,  the  Parliament  of 
Mongolia adopted a law on reducing air pollution in the 
capital city.
Following  the  Parliament’s  adoption  of  a  package 
of laws on environmental protection at its 2012 spring 
session,  today  70  per  cent  of  the  country’s  territory 
comes  under  the  special  protection  of  the  State. 
More  than  25  national  programmes  on  nature  and 
environment-related  issues  are  being  implemented  in 
Mongolia.
In 2010, the Government started the implementation 
of  national  programmes  on  water  protection  and 
combating  desertification.  In  2011,  the  Parliament 
adopted  a  national  programme  on  climate  change. 
Nevertheless, more effort will be required in the years 
to come. Mongolia fully endorses the recommendations 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  will  be  working  towards  their 
implementation.  One  of  the  key  messages  that  was 
submitted  to  the  Conference  was  the  need  for  an 
integrated  approach  to  water-resource  management. 
That  message  remains  relevant  and  must  be  central 
in  strategies  towards  a  green  economy.  It  was  also 
stated  that  a  regular  reporting  mechanism  should  be 
established for water-resource management that would 
assist progress and share information.
In  line  with  that  thinking,  we  could  look  at  the 
possibility of elaborating a United Nations convention 
on water-resource management. That idea was expressed 
by  the  President  of  Mongolia  during  the  proceedings 
of  World  Environment  Day  that  our  country  hosted 
this year. I hope that it will be given due consideration 
as  we  continue  activities  to  observe  this  year  as  the 
International Year of Water Cooperation.
The Secretary-General’s report testifies to the fact 
that today the role of United Nations peacekeeping is 
growing rapidly. Mongolia has pursued an active policy 
in  this  regard,  making  its  contribution  to  promoting 
the noble goals of the United Nations Charter. During 
the  past  decade  more  than  5,000  peacekeepers  from 
Mongolia  have  served 
in  different  peacekeeping 
operations,  including  the  one  in  South  Sudan.  As  a 
follow-up to the visit of our President to South Sudan 
earlier this year, we are focusing our attention on issues 
of  improving  and  strengthening  our  involvement  in 
United Nations peacekeeping operations.
Today more than ever, we need concerted action to 
further strengthen international peace and security and 
to further promote our efforts on disarmament — nuclear 
disarmament  in  particular.  I  should  like  to  highlight 
in  this  respect  the  importance  of  last  month’s  High-
level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament,  which  has  given  great  impetus  to 
global endeavours to eliminate those weapons of mass 
destruction. We hope that the Nuclear Security Summit 
to be held early next year in the Netherlands will also 
further facilitate global efforts aimed at nuclear safety 
and security. My delegation is of the view that nuclear-
weapon-free  zones  greatly  contribute  to  hastening 
global  and  regional  peace  and  security.  To  address 
other goals of nuclear disarmament, we encourage the 
establishment of new zones in other regions, including 
the Middle East.
As a North Asian country we are keenly interested 
in  strengthening  peace  and  stability  in  this  region. 
We  believe  that  Mongolia’s  proposal  to  start  the 
Ulaanbaatar  dialogue  on  security  in  North-East  Asia 
would  contribute  to  achieving  this  noble  goal,  and 
I  wish  to  appeal  to  other  countries  of  the  region  to 
consider that proposal favourably.
Recent days have been full of important meetings 
and events at the United Nations. I should like to draw 
attention  to  the  fact  that,  during  this  year’s  treaty 
event,  Mongolia  signed  two  important  agreements, 
one of which was the Arms Trade Treaty — a historic 
10/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
achievement  of  the  United  Nations  in  recent  years  in 
the field of disarmament. In this way, we are trying to 
make our modest contribution to achieving our common 
goals.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
strong  resolve  to  work  together  with  other  Member 
States towards strengthening the United Nations system, 
so that it remains an effective centre for advancing the 
development  agenda,  a  valuable  tool  for  maintaining 
peace and stability throughout the world.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  report  submitted 
by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations  (A/68/1).  At  present,  with  the 
international  situation  undergoing  profound  and 
complex  changes,  peace  and  development  remain  the 
theme  of  our  time.  In  a  multipolar  world,  economic 
globalization  and  the  emergence  of  the  information 
society are profoundly transforming the world. Nations 
are  more  closely 
the 
international  community  is  faced  with  a  multitude  of 
challenges. The underlying consequences caused by the 
international financial crisis remain to be eliminated. 
The instability and uncertainty of the world economic 
situation are still remarkable. The full recovery of the 
international economy and its healthy growth still face 
grave challenges.
interconnected.  Meanwhile, 
The  international  security  situation  is  complex 
and complicated. General hotspots flare up from time 
to  time.  International  terrorism,  cybersecurity  and 
various traditional and non-traditional security threats 
are interlinked. We still have a long way to go before we 
can maintain international peace and security.
Over  the  past  year,  faced  with  a  multitude  of 
complex  threats  and  challenges,  the  United  Nations 
has  been  working  actively  to  promote  multilateral 
cooperation, with an emphasis on activities within its 
strategic frameworks; has placed economic growth and 
sustainable development at its core; and has played an 
important  role  in  the  fields  of  promoting  sustainable 
development,  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  promoting  African  development,  protecting 
human  rights,  coordinating  humanitarian  assistance, 
combating terrorism, and promoting disarmament and 
non-proliferation.
The  United  Nations  Secretariat  has  also  made 
positive  progress 
transparency, 
efficiency  and  effectiveness.  The  Chinese  delegation 
improving 
in 
its 
appreciates  the  hard  work  carried  out  by  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the Secretariat. To respond 
effectively to the multitude of security challenges and 
threats, nations must work together to give a full and 
important role to the United Nations in the maintenance 
of international peace and security.
The  principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  are  the  bedrock  of  contemporary 
international  relations  and  constitute  a  guarantee  for 
international  peace.  The 
international  community 
should  continue  to  adhere  to  the  important  principles 
of  rejecting  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  a 
nation, maintaining peace, opposing power politics and 
aggression, and promoting equality.
The question of Syria is the focus of the international 
community’s  attention.  In  that  connection,  China 
welcomes  the  decision  adopted  by  the  Organization 
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and Security 
Council resolution 2118 (2013). China is ready to send 
experts to take part in the relevant work and to provide 
support.
A  political  solution  is  the  only  way  out  on  the 
question of Syria, and such a solution should proceed 
hand in hand with the destruction of Syria’s chemical 
weapons. China calls upon the Syrian parties to agree 
to an immediate ceasefire and the cessation of violence, 
and  join  the  process  for  a  political  settlement  of  the 
question. China hopes that the international community 
will build a consensus and promote the early convening 
of  the  second  Geneva  international  conference,  so 
as  to  end  the  crisis  and  start  reconstruction  through 
dialogue.  We  will  continue  to  support  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and Joint Special Representative 
Lakhdar Brahimi in their good offices. China is ready 
to join all other nations in a tireless effort to achieve a 
comprehensive, proper and long-term settlement.
Cooperation  for  international  development  is  at  a 
critical  transitional  stage.  The  United  Nations  should 
continue to play a leading role in development. China 
supports  the  continued  implementation  of  all  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals and the early start of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda, with emphasis on the difficulties 
and  challenges  faced  by  developing  countries,  in 
particular  by  African  countries, 
least  developed 
countries and small island developing countries, so as 
to  narrow  the  gap  and  rectify  the  imbalance  between 
North and South.
13-50522
11/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
The post-2015 development agenda should continue 
to take development as its theme and place the elimination 
of poverty and the promotion of development at its heart, 
taking into full consideration the particular situation of 
nations and their different stages of development, and 
should respect the path of development chosen by each 
nation  independently.  That  agenda  should  contribute 
to  the  strengthening  of  international  partnerships  for 
development,  adhere  to  the  principles  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibility  and  fairness,  increase 
capacity  and  development  financing,  promote  the 
liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment, 
and  expand  official  development  assistance  and 
technical  support  for  developing  countries,  so  as  to 
create  an  enabling  environment  for  the  development 
of  developing  countries  and  provide  a  framework  for 
international  development  cooperation  conducive  to 
developing countries.
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The  United  Nations  is  an  irreplaceable  platform 
for maintaining peace, pursuing common development, 
increasing cooperation and creating win-win situations. 
It is also a community of nations that believe in solidarity 
and  common  progress.  Faced  with  the  challenges  of 
globalization  and  the  changing  world  situation,  the 
international  community  has  greater  expectations  of 
the  United  Nations.  China  will  firmly  promote  the 
continued  improvement  of  global  governance  and 
support the United Nations in its efforts to keep abreast 
of our times, respond actively to what is expected of the 
Organization and better carry out the functions given 
to it by the Charter.
United  Nations 
reform  should  contribute 
the  voice  of  developing  countries 
to 
increasing 
in 
international affairs and to a bigger role for the United 
Nations  in  coordinating  the  efforts  of  nations  to  deal 
with global threats and challenges. The reform should 
progress in a balanced manner in the fields of security, 
development and human rights, and should contribute in 
particular to positive results in the field of development.
China  has  always  advocated,  supported  and 
practised multilateralism. China has supported granting 
the  United  Nations  a  bigger  role  in  international 
affairs  and  firmly  upholds  the  status  and  authority 
of  the  United  Nations.  China  will  continue  firmly 
to  support  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  and  is  ready  to  deepen  cooperation  with  the 
Organization. It will play an even more active part in 
the work of the various United Nations bodies and will 
promote  the  United  Nations,  giving  more  attention  to 
the interests of developing countries in order to make a 
greater contribution to building lasting peace, common 
prosperity, and global harmony.
Mr. Umemoto (Japan): First of all, I should like to 
begin by congratulating His Excellency Mr. John Ashe 
on his assumption of his duties as the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  Japan 
looks  forward  to  his  leadership  during  the  current 
session in facing the global challenges that the General 
Assembly  is  mandated  to  discuss,  as  outlined  in  the 
Charter,  and  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  contribute 
to  his  work.  I  should  further  like  to  convey  to  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  the  deep 
appreciation  of  Japan  for  his  efforts  in  guiding  the 
diverse  activities  of  the  United  Nations  and  for  his 
latest report on the work of the Organization (A/68/1).
the 
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
is  a  fundamental  principle  of 
international 
community  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter. 
My  Government  is  firmly  committed  to  contribute  to 
establishing  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level 
through,  inter  alia,  its  support  to  international  courts 
and tribunals, as well as at the national level through 
its  assistance  aimed  at  strengthening  domestic  legal 
systems and human resources in developing countries. 
Furthermore, it is our strong belief that the idea of the 
rule of law is strongly connected with the enhancement 
of  human  rights,  which  is  one  of  the  three  pillars  of 
the  United  Nations.  Japan  will  continue  actively  to 
contribute to international efforts under the auspices of 
the United Nations.
Japan  strongly  condemns  the  grave  violations  of 
human rights in places like Syria and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. We support the efforts of 
the  United  Nations  in  that  connection,  which  include 
the decision of the Human Rights Council to extend the 
mandate of the Commission of Inquiry on Syria. Japan 
strongly welcomed the Council’s adoption by consensus 
of  the  resolution  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including 
the  establishment  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
Human Rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, and supports the activities of the Commission. 
Japan  cooperated  fully  with  the  Commission  when 
its  members  visited  Japan  in  August  as  part  of  the 
investigation.
12/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
Japan, along with the European Union, will again 
submit  a  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in 
order  to  address  the  international  community’s  grave 
concern, including with regard to the abductions issue.
As Prime Minister Abe stated in his statement from 
this rostrum during the general debate of the General 
Assembly (see A/68/PV.12), Japan has recently chosen 
a  policy  promoting  a  proactive  contribution  to  peace, 
which  is  based  on  the  undeniable  record  and  solid 
appraisal  of  our  country,  which  has  endeavoured  to 
bring peace and prosperity to the world and emphasizes 
cooperation with the international community.
The  world’s  balance  of  power  has  been  changing 
rapidly, and new types of threats have arisen because 
of  technological  innovations.  It  is  now  impossible  for 
any one country, no matter which, to safeguard its own 
peace and security acting entirely by itself. Japan will 
work  to  garner  the  trust  of  the  world  as  a  creator  of 
added value and a net contributor to regional and world 
peace and stability.
Given those circumstances, the role of the United 
Nations  will  become  even  more 
important.  The 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  is 
one  of  the  primary  tasks  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
that  regard,  Japan  is  fully  committed  to  contributing 
to  United  Nations  efforts  by  participating  in  United 
Nations peacekeeping operation missions and extending 
assistance to affected areas.
Japan  is  currently  sending  an  engineering  unit 
of  approximately  330  people  to  the  United  Nations 
Mission in the Republic of South Sudan. Japan is also 
deploying  two  Japanese  Maritime  Self-Defence  Force 
destroyers and two P-3C maritime patrol aircraft in the 
Gulf  of  Aden  and  off  the  coast  of  Somalia  as  part  of 
international efforts to combat piracy.
Japan  welcomes  the  work  undertaken  by  the 
United  Nations  in  the  field  of  peacebuilding  through 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund. We believe stronger emphasis must be placed on 
the  linkages  between  peacekeeping  and  development 
operations.  Japan  remains  committed  to  ensuring 
that  peacebuilding  dividends  are  felt  on  the  ground 
through the work of the United Nations peacebuilding 
architecture.
To  that  end,  Japan  stresses  the  importance  of 
further  improving  coordination  between  the  relevant 
organizations  and  the  donors.  In  addition,  we  also 
welcome  the  initiative  by  the  Secretary-General  to 
strengthen  civilian  capacities  in  post-conflict  States, 
including  through  the  launching  of  the  CAPMATCH 
capacity-matching programme last year, in which Japan 
takes part.
Turning to the situation in Syria, Japan profoundly 
deplores  the  deaths  of  more  than  100,000  innocent 
people.  Faced  with  the  scourge  of  that  war,  the 
international  community  urgently  needs  to  address 
the  appalling  humanitarian  conditions  there.  Japan 
will  continue  proactively  to  provide  humanitarian 
assistance  to  refugees  and  to  neighbouring  countries, 
now  totalling  approximately  $280  million,  which 
includes  the  additional  $60  million  pledged  by  Prime 
Minister Abe during the general debate,.
Chemical  weapons  must  never  be  used  again. 
Japan  strongly  urges  the  Government  of  Syria  to 
comply faithfully and fully with the chemical-weapons 
elimination  programme  established  under  Security 
Council  resolution  2118  (2013).  Japan  will  provide 
extensive support and the greatest possible cooperation 
towards the elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons.
Now  is  the  time  for  the  international  community 
to  seize  this  window  of  opportunity  with  a  view  to 
bringing  about  a  political  solution.  The  successful 
convening of the so-called Geneva II conference is of 
the utmost importance in that regard. I should like to 
reiterate Japan’s commitment to working together with 
the international community towards an early Syrian-
led political transition.
The special event on the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  held  two  weeks  ago,  was  a  great 
opportunity  to  renew  our  political  commitment  to 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  to  lay  out  a  clear 
work plan so as organically to integrate various related 
processes  with  a  view  to  working  towards  a  single 
framework and set of goals.
On 
it 
the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
is 
essential  that  human  security  be  made  its  guiding 
principle. In that connection, let me stress two points: 
universal  health  coverage  and  disaster  risk  reduction. 
First,  we  should  aim  at  satisfying  broader  health  and 
medical  needs  based  on  a  people-centred  approach 
that  seeks  to  attain  universal  health  coverage  and 
supplement  a  disease-centred  approach.  Measures  for 
vulnerable people, women in particular, are the key to 
realizing universal health coverage. We will contribute 
13-50522
13/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
to  programmes  related  to  universal  health  coverage 
through a multilateral approach.
risk 
Secondly,  disaster 
reduction  should  be 
mainstreamed  in  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
since a disaster can wipe out the hard-won achievements 
of  years  of  development  efforts  in  an  instant.  Having 
experienced  numerous  massive  disasters,  including 
the great East Japan earthquake and tsunami of 2011, 
we would like to share with the world our experiences 
and  lessons  learned,  as  well  as  various  new  disaster 
reduction technologies and systems. With that in mind, 
we will host the third United Nations World Conference 
on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  in  the  city  of  Sendai,  the 
disaster-stricken area of the great East Japan earthquake 
and  tsunami,  in  March  2015.  I  should  like  to  ask  all 
Members  here  for  their  cooperation  in  regard  to  that 
Conference.
In  September  last  year,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted resolution 66/290, on the common understanding 
of the notion of human security. That was an important 
milestone for addressing widespread and cross-cutting 
challenges  to  the  survival,  livelihood  and  dignity 
of  people.  In  recognizing  that  development,  human 
rights,  and  peace  and  security  —  the  three  pillars  of 
the  United  Nations  —  are  interlinked  and  mutually 
reinforcing, Japan is determined to make further efforts 
to mainstream the concept of human security and build 
on actions to implement that principle.
During  the  general  debate  in  September,  Prime 
Minister  Shinzo  Abe  declared  his  intention  to  create 
a  society  in  which  women  shine.  Women,  peace  and 
security  forms  one  of  three  policy  priorities  of  the 
Japanese Government. Japan is determined to redouble 
its  efforts  to  promote  the  participation  of  women  at 
all  stages,  including  the  prevention  and  resolution  of 
conflicts  and  peacebuilding,  as  well  as  to  safeguard 
the  rights  and  physical  well-being  of  women  who  are 
exposed to danger in times of conflict. In that regard, 
we  will  also  further  strengthen  our  support  for  the 
activities of UN-Women and the Special Representative 
of 
in 
Conflict.
the  Secretary-General  on  Sexual  Violence 
The threat posed by weapons of mass destruction 
continues to be one of the most imminent issues that the 
United Nations and its Member States need to address. 
Japan  has  been  playing  a  leading  role  in  promoting 
the adoption of General Assembly resolutions that call 
for  united  action  to  achieve  a  world  without  nuclear 
weapons. In that connection, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea’s  continued  development  of  its 
nuclear and missile programmes is a serious threat to 
the  region  and  to  the  entire  international  community. 
Japan strongly urges the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea to take concrete steps towards denuclearization 
and to fully comply with the relevant Security Council 
resolutions  and  its  commitments  under  the  Joint 
Statement of the Six-Party Talks in 2005.
With regard to Iran, Japan continues to cooperate 
with  the  Committee  established  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 1737 (2006). Japan strongly believes 
that  the  full  implementation  of  the  related  Security 
Council  resolutions  is  of  critical  importance,  as  it 
provides a solid basis for the United Nations to promote 
international peace and stability.
The establishment of the highest common standards 
for  regulating  the  international  trade  in  conventional 
arms  had  been  eagerly  anticipated.  As  one  of  the 
original  seven  co-authors  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty 
(ATT), Japan did its utmost to finalize that work, which 
culminated in the adoption of the ATT during the sixty-
seventh  session.  Japan  strongly  urges  Member  States 
to  sign  and  ratify  that  Treaty  at  the  earliest  possible 
opportunity, so that the ATT will come into effect as 
soon as possible.
It was regrettable that the Security Council failed 
to  unite  and  act  as  one,  before  the  recent  adoption  of 
Council  resolution  2118  (2013),  concerning  the  grave 
situation in Syria. The malfunctioning of the Security 
Council reminds us that reform of the Council is long 
overdue  and  is  one  of  the  most  urgent  tasks  to  which 
Member  States  should  give  priority.  Based  on  that 
belief, the Foreign Ministers of the Group of Four met 
in  the  margins  of  the  opening  of  the  current  session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  The  Ministers  reconfirmed 
their common vision for reform and stressed the need 
to intensify efforts to translate into concrete outcomes, 
at the latest by 2015, the commitment by the leaders at 
the 2005 World Summit to work for an early reform of 
the Security Council. In that context, Japan appreciates 
the emphasis Ambassador Ashe put on the matter in his 
inaugural address. Japan also welcomes the invaluable 
efforts made by the Chairman of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  and  supports 
his proposal of a concise working document.
Regarding  administrative  and  budgetary  issues, 
the Assembly will be dealing with the budget for 2012-
2013, as well as the 2014-2015 budget proposal. In order 
to  ensure  budgetary  discipline,  Japan  will  carefully 
14/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
analyse and judge the appropriateness and affordability 
of all potential additional items in the current budget, 
as well as the proposed programme budget 2014-2015.
With  regard  to  human  resources  management, 
including  the  proposed  mobility  framework  and  the 
common system, those items have a great impact on the 
future of the Organization, and Japan will actively and 
positively participate in the related negotiations. Japan 
expresses  its  appreciation  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
continued strong commitment to better management of 
the Secretariat and United Nations facilities.
I  will  close  my  statement  today  by  reiterating 
Japan’s  intention  to  work  closely  with  the  Secretary-
General  in  ensuring  a  more  effective  and  efficient 
United Nations.
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  should 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his comprehensive report on the work of the 
Organization (A/68/1). The report, which covers a wide 
range of issues, testifies to the centrality and importance 
of  the  United  Nations  in  addressing  the  myriad  of 
challenges  that  beset  the  international  community. 
The  challenges  are  interconnected.  While  we  try  to 
isolate them in order to conjure up specific remedies, 
we  must  keep  in  mind  that  they  are  interconnected 
in  so  many  ways.  Malaysia  associates  itself  with  the 
statement made by Brunei Darussalam on behalf of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Allow me also 
to present some of Malaysia’s views regarding a few of 
the  key  issues  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report.
As  the  2015  deadline  looms,  Malaysia,  together 
with the rest of the international community, is making 
the  final  push  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). We wholeheartedly agree 
with the Secretary-General that 2015 is not the finish 
line in our quest to ensure balanced and inclusive global 
development. Rather, we will begin another chapter as 
we continue on our journey to build upon the successes 
of the MDGs and fill in the gaps where we have fallen 
short.
Malaysia  is  fully  supportive  of  the  theme  of  this 
year’s  session,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda: 
setting  the  stage”,  which  is  both  apt  and  timely.  We 
trust that the theme will provoke serious discussion on 
the path forward towards international development.
In Rio de Janeiro last year, the global community 
reaffirmed its commitment to sustainable development 
and  adopted  a  comprehensive  framework  for  action. 
With almost one billion people still living in extreme 
poverty and with income inequality rising, sustainable 
development will need to be inclusive and take special 
care of the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable. 
The support expressed by all Member States in coming 
up with a comprehensive post-2015 development agenda 
has been overwhelming. Member States should build on 
that momentum and find the best possible development 
framework for every one of us.
Malaysia  is  following  closely  the  progress  of  the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  as  mandated  by  the  outcome  document  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(Rio+20)  “The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288, 
annex).  In  formulating  the  sustainable  development 
goals (SDGs), we should keep in mind the interests of 
developing  countries,  especially  the  least  developed 
countries. It is not intended that the developing countries 
should undertake the SDGs as a kind of conditionality 
or a set of new obligations that apply only to them. The 
goals should be universally applicable to all countries, 
including  developed  ones.  Hence,  the  principle  of 
common  but  differentiated  responsibility  enshrined 
in the Rio principles must be applied in a holistic way 
when formulating the goals. We should also ensure that 
the SDG process is coherent with the post-2015 United 
Nations  development  agenda  process.  The  design, 
structure and choice of SDGs should go in tandem with 
what developing countries aspire to achieve and should 
be supported by our partners in the developed countries 
through the provision of technology and finance.
We  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  SDGs  should  not 
in any way undermine the achievements of the MDGs 
by  2015.  We  believe  that  MDGs  and  SDGs  are  not 
competing concepts. The SDGs, if correctly formulated, 
would  accelerate  the  continuation  of  work  begun 
under the banner of the MDGs. They should strive for 
greater  economic  and  social  inclusion  and  emphasize 
integration  and  balance  among  economic,  social  and 
environmental aspirations. There should be, therefore, 
a unified, people-centred development with sustainable 
development at its core and under the umbrella of world 
peace.
Economic  growth  and  social  development  can 
only  flourish  under  conditions  of  peace,  security  and 
stability.  Unfortunately,  the  international  community 
continues to witness the devastating effects of conflict 
and  instability  on  the  civilian  populations  of  various 
13-50522
15/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
countries,  including  Syria,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Somalia  and  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.  We  must  strive  harder  to  find  concrete 
solutions  to  end  violent  conflicts  and  create  the  right 
environment  for  nation-building  and  peacebuilding 
initiatives.
Malaysia reiterates its call for a Syrian-led inclusive 
political  process  to  resolve  the  situation  in  Syria.  We 
are  against  unilateral  action  to  resolve  the  conflict, 
and  we  support  resolute  efforts  through  transparent 
dialogue  and  mutual  cooperation.  We  join  our  voices 
to those of the international community in condemning 
without  reservation  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  and 
call  on  all  stakeholders  to  intensify  their  efforts  to 
explore all possible diplomatic options for peace under 
the auspices of the United Nations.
Malaysia  regrets  that  another  year  has  passed 
without  any  resolution  for  the  people  of  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory. Day after day, month after month, 
year after year, the people of Palestine continue to see 
their lands seized to make way for illegal settlements. 
They  continue  to  see  their  families,  including  their 
children,  displaced  and  forced  from  their  homes. 
The  plight  of  the  people  of  Palestine  must  remain  a 
top  priority,  and  we  fervently  hope  that  the  recent 
resumption  of  direct  talks  heralds  progress  towards  a 
viable Palestinian State based on the pre-1967 borders, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We  express  our  strong  support  for  international 
mediation efforts in bringing about a just, lasting and 
peaceful solution between disputing parties. Malaysia is 
a firm believer in resolving conflicts through peaceful 
means and has played a lead mediating role in resolving 
conflicts and disputes peacefully in our region.
facilitating  dialogues  and 
In  that  connection,  Malaysia  believes  that  the 
principle  of  moderation  is  an  important  approach 
that  can  be  applied  in  mediation.  The  application 
towards  bridging 
of  moderation  can  contribute 
differences, 
resolving 
disputes,  as  well  as  towards  sustainable  development 
and  stability.  Moderation  can  also  create  harmonious 
relations  by  calling  for  mutual  respect,  tolerance, 
understanding,  dialogue,  compromise  and  justice.  We 
believe,  therefore,  that  moderation  can  be  a  valuable 
tool  in  conflict  resolution,  national  reconciliation, 
peacebuilding and power-sharing arrangements.
Malaysia  is  also  committed  to  the  work  of  the 
its 
Peacebuilding  Commission  as  a  member  of 
Organizational  Committee.  We  fully  support  United 
Nations  efforts  to  pool  all  available  and  relevant 
resources  with  a  view  to  assisting  countries  in  their 
post-conflict  peacebuilding,  recovery,  reconstruction 
and,  eventually,  development.  To  that  end  Malaysia 
stands  ready  to  provide  capacity-building  assistance, 
such as through the Malaysian Technical Cooperation 
Programme,  under  which  we  have  trained  more  than 
4,000  participants  from  14  post-conflict  countries  to 
date.
Malaysia  continues  to  support  the  strengthening 
of  economic  development  and  political  governance 
in  Africa.  We  commend  the  efforts  made  by  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  and  its 
partners, including the United Nations, in guiding the 
socioeconomic transformation of the region. Malaysia 
will continue actively to engage and explore potential 
partnerships  in  the  African  region  in  forums  such  as 
the  Langkawi  International  Dialogue  and  the  Global 
Smart Partnership Dialogue. Malaysia also has strong 
trade, investment and capacity-building links with the 
African continent and looks forward to enhancing those 
ties further in the years to come.
As  long  as  nuclear  weapons  remain  in  existence, 
our  collective  safety  and  well-being  hangs  in  the 
balance. I reiterate the call made by our Prime Minister 
here on 26 September 2013 for a nuclear-weapon-free 
world  during  the  High-level  Meeting  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament.
As  pointed  out  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  it  is  ironic  that  an  issue  as  prominent  and 
critical as nuclear disarmament remains at an impasse 
in  international  negotiations  in  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament.  The  paralysis  must  be  brought  to  an 
end,  and  we  reiterate  the  proposals  made  by  our 
Prime  Minister  for  new  perspectives  to  be  taken  into 
account  in  the  disarmament  discourse,  including  the 
views  of  academicians,  intellectuals,  think  tanks  and 
non-governmental organizations.
Malaysia views the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) as a 
significant milestone in international efforts to prevent, 
combat  and  eradicate  the  illicit  trade  in  conventional 
arms. The Prime Minister of Malaysia signed the Treaty 
on 26 September 2013, cementing our commitment to 
binding  international  standards  that  would  contribute 
to reducing armed conflict and the misuse of arms. We 
call  upon  Member  States  to  accede  to  and  ratify  the 
ATT in order rapidly to bring the Treaty into force.
16/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
Malaysia is encouraged by the Secretary-General’s 
continued  commitment  to  ensuring  that  the  United 
Nations is able to deliver in spite of scarce resources. 
We agree that staff members are assets and that their 
development would undeniably assist in preparing the 
Organization to face the evolving challenges with which 
we are confronted in this day and age. Enterprise risk 
management, enterprise resource planning, also known 
as Umoja, and International Public Sector Accounting 
Standards  are  not  mere  words  or  abbreviations  for  us 
to  remember.  They  are  important  administrative  and 
management projects that will enhance the management 
and efficiency of the Organization as a whole.
those 
limitations  and 
My delegation acknowledges that there are limited 
human, financial and material resources available to the 
Organization because of the world economic situation. 
Given 
the  ever-increasing 
mandate  given  to  the  United  Nations,  Member  States 
will  continue  to  demand  greater  transparency  and 
accountability.  In  that  connection,  Malaysia  would 
like  to  see  the  completion  of  the  capital  master  plan 
both on time and within budget. That is important, as 
the  capital  master  plan  will  enhance  the  coordination 
and  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  through 
modernization  in  communications  and  improvements 
in the working environment for staff members.
the  evolution  of 
To conclude, it is true that much has changed since 
the United Nations was conceived. Despite the changes 
and  problems  that  we  face,  Malaysia  remains  a  firm 
believer in multilateralism and consistently subscribes 
to  the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has 
enabled 
interaction 
among  States,  thus  creating  a  predictable  and  stable 
international order. We sincerely hope that this session 
of the General Assembly will allow all of us to move 
forward  in  a  concerted  effort  to  address  the  various 
problems  and  challenges  that  are  laid  upon  us.  The 
Assembly  can  count  on  Malaysia’s  firm  commitment 
in that regard.
rule-based 
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  Republic  of  Argentina  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the submission of his report on 
the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/68/1).  I  should  like 
to  focus  my  statement  on  three  matters  to  which  the 
Secretary-General has devoted a major part of his report: 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the 
post-2015  agenda,  Syria,  and  particular  developments 
regarding peacekeeping operations.
Argentina takes a positive view of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  as  a  tool  for  organizing  and 
promoting  national  public  policy  that  brings  together 
efforts  to  pursue  specific,  clear  and  concrete  ends. 
National Governments have been the major protagonists 
in  that  progress,  with  the  collaboration  of  the  United 
Nations system and with the input, although not always 
sufficient, provided by international cooperation.
The current debate on the post-2015 agenda is very 
timely, since an international and multisectoral dialogue 
has  been  triggered  on  various  aspects  that  will,  no 
doubt, feed into the decisions to be taken in 2014-2015. 
But that process should not distract our attention from 
the pressing work that we must still complete in order 
to meet the Millennium Development Goals before the 
2015 deadline. Many countries are on course to achieve 
them, but when we are talking about development and 
human  rights,  the  task  is  unending  and  that  we  must 
sustain our efforts over time.
Argentina has shown that with clear ambition and 
strategies  and  inclusive  development,  major  changes 
can  become  reality.  Eradicating  poverty  is,  and  must 
continue  to  be,  our  central  objective,  and  we  cannot 
accept  any  pretext  to  avoid  adopting  that  as  the  main 
objective  for  2030.  The  level  of  poverty  in  Argentina 
declined by 87 per cent between 2003 and 2013, today 
standing  at  5.4  per  cent.  The  time  to  permanently 
eradicate  extreme  poverty  is  now.  That  will  not  be 
possible  unless  we  reverse  the  current  trend  towards 
increasing inequality in the world. Deep asymmetries 
continue to exist between the developed and developing 
countries, asymmetries that the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean has described as 
structural gaps that are linked to inequality.
We do not believe that there is a single pattern for 
development,  either  our  own  or  for  other  people.  We 
cannot ignore the differences in the responsibilities of 
the  various  countries  to  work  to  achieve  sustainable 
development.  Each  country’s  economic,  social  and 
environmental  obligations  at  the  global  level  should 
be  seen  as  consistent  with  its  level  of  development, 
its  specific  circumstances,  and  its  different  historical 
responsibilities 
the 
environment,  which  means  that  we  must  clearly 
respect  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility.
the  degradation  of 
towards 
Each  individual  State  should  therefore  work  in  a 
systematic fashion to promote development, beginning 
13-50522
17/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
by  ensuring  consistency  between  its  macroeconomic 
policies  and  its  policies  relating  to  the  generation 
of  decent  work  and  social  inclusion.  The  access  of 
developing  countries  to  genuine  funding  resources, 
including  official  development  assistance,  varies. 
They  may  be  able  to  obtain  increased  funding  from 
multilateral  and  regional  development  banks  or  to 
improve  their  access  to  markets  for  exports  through 
agreements reached at the next Bali round, particularly 
in  terms  of  agricultural  products.  They  also  differ  in 
their  ability  to  promote  the  development  of  human 
resources and adapt to climate change.
The  commitments  entered  into  should  be  broken 
down into specific aims and objectives for all, and not 
just for the developing countries. The implementation 
of  Millennium  Development  Goal  8,  which  reflects 
the  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
supporting the development agenda, has not lived up to 
expectations and that is, perhaps, due to the fact that it 
was not clearly defined with clear and qualitative goals 
to be reached. That is a lesson we must bear in mind 
when  we  formulate  the  new  post-2015  development 
agenda.
The  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  must 
step  up  to  the  challenges  that  we  have  to  tackle.  We 
must get to the substance of the discussion — how to 
maintain  and  consolidate  progress  made  through  the 
MDGs;  how  to  strengthen  and  complement  them  for 
the new sustainable development agenda, not forgetting 
that the task is to obtain results and not just to quantify 
them; and how to fund the new agenda and ensure that 
each individual State, whatever its development status, 
can take ownership of the agenda by adopting realistic 
achievable objectives.
Moving  on  to  the  Syrian  crisis,  the  Secretary-
General’s report has revealed the shortcomings of the 
collective  security  system  laid  down  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  has  placed  in  jeopardy  the  very 
credibility of the Organization. Specifically, a divided 
Security Council has failed in its obligation to comply 
with the mandate conferred on it by the Charter. A few 
days ago, the President of Argentina raised that matter, 
placing it in the broader context of the need to reform 
the Security Council by removing the right of veto. She 
said:
“When  dealing  with  conflict  resolution  and 
management,  if  one  party  to  the  conflict,  or  an 
interested  party,  has  the  right  of  veto,  that  right 
the  fallout 
necessarily  becomes  an  obstacle  to  the  resolution 
of the conflict.” (A/68/PV.7, p. 10)
The  Organization  has  recently  made  tremendous 
efforts  to  deal  with  the  humanitarian  fallout  of  the 
Syrian  conflict  and 
in  neighbouring 
countries. But it is clear that no amount of assistance 
will  satisfy  the  growing  needs  of  the  people  of  Syria 
unless a negotiated outcome to the crisis is found. We 
therefore agree with those who believe that the recent 
unity  of  the  Council  in  dealing  with  the  matter  of 
chemical weapons and in addressing the humanitarian 
situation  may  constitute  the  foundation  for  a  political 
and  negotiated  solution  for  the  crisis  in  Syria  that 
recognizes  the  legitimate  aspirations  and  demands  of 
the  Syrian  people  and  lays  the  foundation  for  lasting 
peace  through  the  early  holding  of  a  conference  on 
Syria to implement the Geneva communiqué of 30 June 
2012 (S/2012/523, annex).
Of  course,  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity 
and  grave  violations  of  human  rights  cannot  go 
unpunished.  The  International  Criminal  Court  has  a 
role  to  play  there.  We  must  again  stress,  as  we  have 
done frequently, that the delivery of arms to the parties 
in the conflict must cease.
To  conclude,  I  should  like  to  talk  about  certain 
developments  that  have  occurred  over  the  past  year 
with regard to peacekeeping operations. As a member 
of  the  Security  Council,  Argentina  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  2098  (2013)  regarding  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, based on the concern generated 
within the international community by the continuing 
deterioration  of  the  situation  in  that  country  and  the 
need  to  ensure  the  protection  of  human  rights  and 
international humanitarian law and the rule of law, and 
the end of impunity, particularly in the eastern area of 
the country.
Argentina  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution,  but 
subsequently  expressed  its  concern  regarding  the 
establishment  of 
the  Force  Intervention  Brigade, 
and  particularly  its  ability  to  use  force  in  offensive 
action,  even  when  such  a  decision,  enabled  under 
paragraph  9  of  the  resolution,  was  considered  to  be 
of  an  exceptional  nature  and  would  not  constitute  a 
precedent. My country believes that such a use of force 
would represent a conceptual change in the traditional 
concept of peacekeeping operations.
In  that  regard,  with  respect  to  including  the 
dimension  of  the  imposition  of  peace  within  the 
18/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
concept  of  peacekeeping,  even  when  justified  by  the 
circumstances, there should have been further broader 
consultations with all countries that contribute troops to 
the United Nations, not only with countries contributing 
troops to the United Nations Organization Stabilization 
Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That 
should  be  done  bearing  in  mind  the  new  tasks  that 
might have to be undertaken and the impact that such a 
decision might have on the entire peacekeeping system. 
The  principles  of  neutrality  and  impartiality  inherent 
in peacekeeping missions are at stake here. My country 
supports the peaceful settlement of disputes consistent 
with the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly and other bodies.
Again, I should like to restate Argentina’s readiness 
to contribute and continue to work with the Secretary-
General in order to achieve a United Nations that is more 
efficient  and  better  adapted  to  the  new  international 
realities.
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
We  read  very  attentively  the  Secretary-General’s 
annual report on the work of the Organization (A/68/1). 
Structurally,  the  report  is  organized  around  the  three 
major priorities defined by the General Assembly in the 
strategic  framework  for  the  biennium.  Substantively, 
it  provides  copious  information  regarding  what  has 
been accomplished in the 12 months under review. We 
are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  all  of  that 
information, which clearly demonstrates the efforts that 
he and his staff have made in discharging the weighty 
and delicate tasks given to them by the Member States.
We  join  the  Secretary-General  in  expressing  our 
emotional  condolences  to  the  families  of  the  officials 
of  the  Organization  who  have  lost  their  lives  serving 
humankind  and  the  noble  ideals  and  principles  in  the 
Charter.
Regarding  questions  of  international  peace  and 
security, the report summarizes the activities carried out 
by the Organization in maintaining and building peace, 
in  conflict  prevention,  and  in  mediation  in  a  number 
of  parts  of  the  world.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General that prevention, peacebuilding and mediation 
are  the  best  ways  to  prevent  conflict  situations  from 
degenerating  or  becoming  seriously  bogged  down. 
In  Africa  particularly,  we  support  the  Secretary-
General in the efforts to resolve existing crises on our 
continent, but especially to build African capacities for 
peacekeeping on the continent and subregionally.
The  Central  African  Republic  merits  priority 
attention  on  political  questions.  The  report  describes 
the  assistance  given  to  55  Member  States  in  building 
democracy  and  holding  elections.  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  that  assistance,  particularly 
to  African  countries.  On  30  September,  Cameroon 
organized  municipal  and  legislative  elections  in  a 
climate  of  peace  and  calm,  which  was  welcomed  by 
national  and  international  observers,  a  sign  of  the 
significant  progress  in  and  maturity  of  our  electoral 
process,  patiently  established  and  constantly  being 
refined  by  our  Government  with  the  assistance  of 
bilateral and multilateral partners, including the United 
Nations.
With  respect  to  promoting  sustained  economic 
the  report 
growth  and  sustainable  development, 
mentions the actions carried out by the United Nations 
to  accelerate  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  to  promote  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  as  well  as  the  well-being  of  all 
throughout the world.
We  also  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that 
climate change is a major issue in our age and that the 
time to act is now. The recurrence of natural disasters 
throughout  the  world,  with  Hurricane  Sandy  as  an 
overwhelming and devastating example, striking even 
the  United  Nations  basement,  should  prompt  us  to 
make  good  decisions  before  it  is  too  late,  at  any  rate 
before we have to pay an even heavier price, materially, 
financially and in terms of human lives.
The  contribution  of  countries  such  as  Cameroon 
to  sustainable  socioeconomic  progress  throughout  the 
world resides, among other things, in an environmentally 
rational  management  of  our  forest  area  of  21  million 
hectares  in  the  greater  Congo  basin,  which  is  the 
second largest after the Amazon and a large reservoir 
for the retention of carbon and other greenhouse gases. 
It is an oxygenic lung aerating the world, home to rare 
tree  species,  rare  and  diverse  flora  and  fauna,  and  a 
biodiversity that has multiple uses. If all of that wealth 
is  going  to  be  global,  a  partnership  must  allow  those 
who  have  such  things  to  enjoy  them  in  a  legitimate 
manner, to obtain a fair price for them, and to provide 
oversight, maintenance, conservation and regeneration.
Regarding  development  in  Africa,  which  is  a 
definite  priority  that  is  always  underscored  by  the 
General  Assembly,  the  report  highlights  the  actions 
undertaken by the United Nations, in close cooperation 
13-50522
19/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
with the African Union, for the development of Africa 
through its support to the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development.  There  is  no  need  to  reiterate  that  our 
continent  has  in  the  past  few  years  reaffirmed  its 
leadership  in  defining  the  future  and  the  role  that  it 
wishes to have in the short, medium and long term in 
the comity of nations and throughout the world.
Programmes  and  projects  have  been  developed 
for  that  purpose  on  the  continent,  subregionally  and 
nationally, with follow-up measures, partnerships and 
strategic  assistance  partnerships.  We  have  requested 
such  projects,  and  we  support  the  concrete  measures 
proposed  in  paragraph  44  of  the  report,  which  states 
that everything has been done to ensure that the needs 
and priorities of Africa are given full attention as we 
think about the post-2015 development agenda.
The  monitoring  mechanism  mandated  by  the 
General Assembly in its resolution 66/293 will allow us 
to summarize the implementation of the commitments 
made for development in Africa. Resources for support 
are, of course, expected along those lines.
On the promotion and protection of human rights, 
the report describes the actions taken and the progress 
made  and  notes  the  shortcomings  and  disappointing 
results  in  some  cases.  In  an  area  so  expansive  and 
diverse as human rights, we need to emphasize the need 
for firm will on the part of States to move ahead in that 
area. Cameroon is deeply committed in that respect, as 
can be seen by the progress made by our Government 
on the ground with respect to political, economic and 
social  rights  in  developing  appropriate  legislation 
for  children,  women,  the  family,  older  persons  and 
persons  with  disabilities,  in  our  participation  in 
international treaties and conventions and in presenting 
national  reports  in  those  areas  and  following  up  on 
recommendations made by the competent national and 
international bodies.
With  respect 
received  and 
to  humanitarian  assistance, 
the 
report  provides  detailed  information  on  the  total 
contributions 
recipients.  We 
commend the Secretary-General for the efforts made, 
and we would encourage him to move ahead, ensuring 
good  coordination,  speed  and  greater  security  for 
humanitarian assistance operations.
their 
With  respect  to  the  promotion  of  justice  and 
international law, the report notes a number of activities 
concerning  the  International  Criminal  Court,  as  well 
as specific international courts. The Secretary-General 
should  have  included  in  that  paragraph  of  the  report 
information regarding the dissemination and teaching 
of international law in a number of regions of the world.
On disarmament, the Secretary-General expresses, 
among  other  things  and  quite  rightly,  strong  concern 
regarding  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria. 
Cameroon is a party to the ban on such weapons and 
can only say that they should not be used. We worked 
for the recent adoption in The Hague of a resolution on 
that question, which was then amplified by the Security 
Council’s  adoption  of  resolution  2118  (2013),  paving 
the  way  for  the  destruction  of  the  Syrian  chemical 
weapons.  Beyond  the  destruction  of  those  weapons, 
Cameroon  supports  the  ongoing  Russian-American 
initiatives aimed at finding a peaceful political solution 
to the entire Syrian crisis. Our peace-loving country is 
working for an Africa and a world that does not have 
chemical weapons.
On 
drug 
crime 
control, 
prevention 
and 
combating international terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations, Cameroon notes with appreciation the 
actions  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations,  as  stated 
in  the  report.  I  should  like  to  emphasize  that  acts  of 
piracy and armed robbery in the Gulf of Guinea were 
the subject of a summit of West African countries held 
in Cameroon in April. That meeting enabled us to adopt 
unanimous  measures  to  combat  such  acts  vigorously. 
In fact, an interregional clearing house headquartered 
in  Yaoundé  was  established.  The  United  Nations  and 
other  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  are  called 
upon to provide assistance to the centre as needed. The 
partnership  that  the  Secretary-General  wholeheartedly 
seeks  could  find  fertile  ground  for  cooperation  in  the 
interregional centre.
Finally, on the strengthening of the Organization, 
the  report  emphasizes  the  measures  taken  by  the 
Secretary-General  to  increase  the  effectiveness  of 
the  management  of  the  United  Nations.  We  need  not 
reiterate that the Organization is the body that regulates 
our higher common interests, including peace, security, 
and  the  well-being  of  one  and  all  as  the  most  critical 
elements.  The  Organization 
integrated  
approach to management through its key instruments, 
including  the  strategic  framework,  the  programme 
budget and oversight, and the inspection, investigation 
and assessment mechanisms.
tajes  an 
The Organization’s staff, as the Secretary-General 
has affirmed, is its greatest asset. In the past few years, 
the stability and predictability of all those factors have 
20/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
been sorely tested, owing to global financial difficulties 
that have not spared the Organization. The Secretary-
General has been constrained to do more with less. We 
hope that projects such as Umoja and the International 
Public Sector Accounting Standards norms mentioned 
by the Secretary-General will, in keeping with the time 
frame and goals set by the General Assembly, result in 
a long-lasting management culture, if the Organization 
is to survive in the information age of the twenty-first 
century,  where  it  has  to  deal  with  actors  that  may  be 
better  equipped  in  those  areas.  Cameroon  supports 
the efforts of the Secretary-General to modernize the 
Organization in the hope he will move forward in full 
consultation  with  and  giving  careful  consideration  to 
the views of all Member States.
Mr.  Bhattarai  (Nepal):  First  of  all,  on  behalf  of 
my delegation and on my own behalf, I wish to extend 
sincere  compliments  to  Ambassador  John  Ashe  on 
assuming the presidency of the Assembly and to pledge 
our  full  support  in  the  discharge  of  his  important 
duties in that capacity. I look forward to celebrating his 
success, which will indeed be a common victory for us 
all.
I also wish to put on record our sincere thanks and 
compliments to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his 
industrious and successful stewardship of our complex 
Organization.
the  pinnacle  of 
Our  Organization  represents  the  soul  of  human 
conscience,  a  monument  to  the  united  determination 
to  make  our  planet  a  better  place  by  all  means  and 
standards, and a vehicle for translating into reality our 
collective  resolve  to  that  end.  The  Secretary-General 
symbolizes 
integrity,  dedication, 
competence,  judgment  and  overall  coordination  and 
leadership in the functioning of the Organization. It is 
with this fact in mind that my delegation welcomes the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  as  contained  in  document 
A/68/1, as an excellent window into the progress of the 
Organization over the past year in all areas of its core 
functions.
The  Secretary-General’s  comprehensive  analysis 
outlining  the  complex  context  of  peace,  security  and 
development needs, resource gaps and other parameters 
of peace in the contemporary world, and the conclusions 
drawn  therefrom,  are  pertinent  and  urgent,  together 
with  the  actions  that  Member  States  need  to  take  in 
the  course  of  next  year  and  beyond.  On  the  whole, 
the  Secretary-General  has  highlighted  major  global 
issues with insightful suggestions and provided a good 
basis for constructive intergovernmental deliberations 
ahead. My delegation commends the report for its clear 
articulation of serious concern over such development 
issues as the Millennium Development goals (MDGs), 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  sustainable 
development goals, and how the most needy and most 
vulnerable  of  countries  can  be  taken  on  board  in  our 
future development efforts.
Nepal  has  unflinching  faith  in  the  principles 
and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations,  believes  in  the 
centrality of the Organization in all multilateral affairs, 
attaches  great  significance  to  each  and  every  aspect 
of  the  work  of  the  Organization,  and  takes  seriously 
each  and  every  point  the  Secretary-General  makes 
in  the  report.  In  looking  at  what  the  Organization 
can  accomplish  directly  and  as  a  catalyst  for  peace, 
security, development and justice throughout the world, 
we believe the United Nations has no alternative except 
to ensure a more robust and reformed Organization, for 
which  my  delegation  will  be  working  closely  with  all 
in future.
Nepal  has  been  contributing  to  the  work  of 
the  Organization  in  different  capacities,  and  most 
importantly in the United Nations peacekeeping efforts 
throughout  the  world,  including  in  the  most  difficult 
of  missions  and  at  the  shortest  notice.  I  assure  the 
Secretary-General of Nepal’s continued commitment to 
participating in United Nations peacekeeping efforts.
Issues  of 
sustained  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development,  including  climate  change 
and  mountains,  MDGs  and  other 
internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  the  development  of  the 
least  developed  and  landlocked  developing  countries, 
international  peace  and  security,  human  rights  and 
humanitarian  assistance,  justice  and  the  rule  of  law 
at  the  national  and  international  levels,  international 
cooperation to free the world from the arms race and 
weapons of mass destruction, drugs and terrorism are 
all very close to our heart. Nepal is supportive of the 
serious efforts being made to address the concerns and 
aspirations of small island developing States.
We  are  aware  that  no  matter  how  we  may  wish 
to  move  ahead,  we  have  to  deal  head  on  with  the 
crucial issues of infrastructure development, capacity-
building  in  terms  both  of  hardware  and  software, 
resource mobilization, official development assistance, 
technology  transfer,  trade,  foreign  direct  investment, 
13-50522
21/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
agriculture, 
sustainable 
international 
migration and development, to which we must accord 
priority.
tourism, 
The  MDGs  have  been 
the  most  successful 
development drive in the history of the United Nations. 
The  drive  has  brought  the  United  Nations  closer  to 
people  in  the  countries  of  the  South.  At  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  our 
leaders agreed to build on the success of the MDGs and 
to develop universally applicable sustainable goals for 
the future.
As  we  embark  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, now is the time to stand by that resolve in the 
firm determination that we will not betray the bottom 
billion  people  living  in  abject  poverty  on  any  other 
development pretext, and that we will place humanity 
at the centre of development. The exercise of the post-
2015 development agenda should rise to the challenge 
of facilitating the transformational shifts that the world 
needs.
While my delegation understands full well the time 
constraints  facing  us  and  the  Organization,  I  find  it 
important to issue a word of caution regarding the use 
of time between now and 2015.
The  Secretary-General  has  outlined  a  plan  for 
holding big events in 2013, 2014 and 2015 as part of the 
post-2015 development agenda exercise. It is important 
to  ponder  how  that  planning  relates  to  the  necessary, 
relevant activities at national level. We have less than 
100  weeks  to  deliberate  on  all  aspects  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda and to agree on a post-2015 
development framework by September 2015. If we cut 
out weekends and holidays, that period will be shorter 
by one-third. While the job has to be full-time, given 
its long-term pertinence and urgency, it will be one of 
several responsibilities for most of the people supposed 
to work on it.
The resulting danger is threefold. The exercise may 
not be able to be adequately informed of the voices of 
all; the agenda may not be able to encompass or avoid all 
that it should; and the specific aspects of the outcome of 
the whole exercise may not correspond to the specific 
needs on the ground. More importantly, there may be 
a disconnect between exercises at the global level and 
those at the national level. We have numerous examples 
of agreeing on time-bound programmes of action — say 
for  five  or  10  years —  and  spending  the  first  half  of 
that period figuring out how it can all be integrated into 
the  national  scheme  of  things  for  implementation  and 
follow-up.
Any recurrence of the same experience in the case 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  would  be  most 
unfortunate.  Parallel  efforts  to  engage  machineries 
and  all  stakeholders  at  the  national  level  right  from 
the  planning  phase  is  important  to  forge  a  sense  of 
participation,  partnership,  ownership,  attachment  and 
commitment,  which  are  all  essential  to  ensuring  that 
the intended results are achieved, achieved in full and 
achieved together.
I  therefore  humbly  call  on  the  presidency  of  the 
Assembly  and  the  Secretary-General  to  schedule  the 
meetings  and  activities  carefully  and  judiciously, 
ensuring justice and balance among issues and countries, 
as well as across themes and regions. That will help to 
ensure that all efforts at the national and international 
levels will go in tandem right from the planning phase, 
together with crafting financing and other mechanisms, 
so that we will be able to deliver what may be agreed 
and to evaluate the results afterwards.
With  that  fervent  call,  I  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
admiration for the dedicated and dynamic leadership of 
the Secretary-General, and especially for his personal, 
empathetic  hopes  for  uplifting  the  downtrodden  and 
needy, and our full confidence in his work ahead. Nepal 
looks forward to working with all Members to make the 
Organization rise to the challenge posed by our world 
in the twenty-first century.
Mr.  Masood  Khan  (Pakistan):  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General for presenting a very comprehensive 
and substantive report on the work of the Organization 
(A/68/1). We all know that this past year the Secretary-
General has worked hard to promote peace and security 
around  the  world,  to  shape  our  2015  development 
agenda, to champion the cause of education for all, to 
mobilize the international community to deal with the 
challenges of climate change, and to muster support for 
sustainable energy for all. With the support of Member 
States,  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Organization 
on his watch have made impressive progress. What is 
more, we all, because of our collective wisdom, seem 
to be moving in the right direction.
This past year, we also had the honour of receiving 
the  Secretary-General  in  Pakistan,  where  he  held  an 
in-depth  dialogue  with  our  leadership  and  focused 
on  issues  of  education,  energy,  disaster  response  and 
preparedness, counter-terrorism, and peace and security 
22/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
in  the  region.  His  visit  to  Pakistan  was  memorable 
because  he  celebrated  our  independence  day  with  the 
people of Pakistan.
If we look at the state of the world, we see five broad 
trends.  First,  the  world  has  still  not  fully  recovered 
from  the  international  financial  crisis,  and  that  has 
a  direct  impact  on  the  United  Nations  development 
agenda. Secondly, the social and economic development 
agenda in many developing countries remains anaemic. 
It  requires  the  convening  power  and  support  of  the 
United  Nations.  Thirdly,  climate  change  has  become 
a serious challenge for our globe’s increasingly fragile 
ecosystems.  Fourthly,  conflicts  are  raging  throughout 
the world, most of which we cannot resolve without the 
intercession  and  intervention  of  the  United  Nations. 
Last  but  not  least,  terrorism  and  other  forms  of 
asymmetric  threats  destabilize  societies  and  pit  faith 
against  faith,  nation  against  nation,  and  civilization 
against civilization.
Not all is dark and dismal. There are many positive 
trends.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
made  progress,  although  we  have  to  go  some  way  to 
meet  them  100  per  cent  and  that  is  what  we  ought  to 
be doing. The United Nations is now preparing for the 
post-2015 development agenda to evolve and implement 
a  development  framework  that  deals  with  social, 
economic  and  environmental  challenges  in  a  holistic 
and cohesive manner.
The  sustainable  development  goals  must  set  the 
goal of the eradication of poverty by 2030. At the same 
time,  we  have  to  find  a  balance  between  economy 
and  ecology,  and  we  have  to  ensure  that  developing 
countries attain higher levels of economic growth and 
development.  Our  efforts  will  flounder  if  we  do  not 
have a strategy for financing for development. We need 
both  traditional  and  innovative  means  to  bridge  the 
resource  gaps  for  our  ambitious  goals  for  sustainable 
development. Let us strive to succeed in all these goals.
The  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  is  dominated 
by  African  issues.  The  Security  Council,  the  African 
Union’s  Peace  and  Security  Council,  and  Africa’s 
subregional organizations have been succeeding in the 
recent  past  in  resolving  some  of  the  most  intractable 
issues in East, Central and Western Africa.
Daunting  challenges  remain  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Mali.  In  this  regard,  we 
applaud the Secretary-General’s leadership in crafting 
the  Comprehensive  Framework  Agreement,  with  the 
help of the countries of the Great Lakes region and the 
Southern  African  Development  Community,  to  bring 
peace and stability to the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo. That is a work in progress.
We  also  support  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts 
to pursue a comprehensive strategy for addressing the 
problems  of  transnational  crime,  resource  scarcity, 
terrorism and political instability in the Sahel.
We  welcome  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  2118  (2013)  to  secure  control  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria  and  destroy  them.  We  hope  that 
the  consensus  generated  by  the  resolution  will  lead 
to  agreements  at  the  “Geneva  II”  conference  so  that 
Syria can move towards reconciliation and a transition 
acceptable to the Syrian people.
We  hope  that  the  resumed  Middle  East  peace 
process will gain momentum and lead to lasting peace 
in the region and a viable Palestinian State.
Pakistan 
supports  Afghanistan’s 
and 
For our part, we fully support the efforts to shape 
a post-2015 development agenda. Our new Government 
has  taken  steps  to  accelerate  social  and  economic 
development,  with  a  sharp  focus  on  the  revival  of 
the  economy,  investment,  trade  promotion,  energy, 
education,  health,  and  disaster  prevention.  We  are 
working proactively for peace and stability in the region. 
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif met Mr. Manmohan Singh 
on  the  sidelines  of  the  General  Assembly  last  month 
and made serious overtures to resolve all outstanding 
issues, including the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.
efforts 
to 
initiate a peace process and to move towards national 
reconciliation 
international 
community  should  continue  to  help  Afghanistan  as  it 
negotiates political, security and economic transitions. 
In  the  meantime,  the  United  Nations  should  upgrade 
and fortify its strategy for the repatriation of the more 
than 3 million Afghan refugees still living in Pakistan.
The Secretary-General has expressed disappointment 
over  the  lack  of  progress  on  the  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  agenda.  I  would  say  that  some 
headway  has  been  made.  The  Arms  Trade  Treaty 
was  adopted  last  year.  The  Nuclear  Security  Summit 
process is moving apace. A successful nuclear security 
conference was held by the International Atomic Energy 
Agency earlier this year, and a High-level Conference 
on  Nuclear  Disarmament  was  hosted  by  the  General 
Assembly last month.
stability.  The 
13-50522
23/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
We believe that the impasse in the disarmament and 
non-proliferation  agenda  can  be  broken  if  we  address 
four  core  issues  —  disarmament,  the  fissile  material 
cut-off treaty, the prevention of an arms race in outer 
space, and negative security assurances — and pursue 
them  simultaneously  without  establishing  hierarchies. 
Similarly,  barriers  to  access  to  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes  should  be  removed.  We  should 
adhere  to  the  cardinal  principles  of  security  for  all, 
non-selectivity and non-discrimination.
Our  position  on  a  fissile  material  cut-off  treaty 
is  determined  by  our  national  security  interests  and 
the  objective  of  strategic  stability  in  South  Asia.  We 
advocate a strategic restraint regime comprising nuclear 
and missile restraint, conventional balance and conflict 
resolution.  Pakistan  fully  qualifies  to  have  access 
to  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes  and  to 
become a member of export control regimes, including 
the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
Security  Council  reform  needs  to  be  pursued 
carefully  and  skilfully.  This  is  a  momentous  process. 
Its  results  cannot  be  achieved  through  shortcuts  or 
procedural  moves  and  manoeuvres.  Decisions  in  this 
regard must enjoy the support of all the Members of the 
Organization. The reform should aggregate and reflect 
the  aspirations  and  interests  of  all,  not  the  ambitions 
of  a  few.  The  Council’s  reform  should  make  it  more 
representative,  democratic  and  equitable  and  its  work 
more effective, transparent and accountable.
As  the  Prime  Minister  of  Pakistan  told  the 
Assembly last month (see A/68/PV.15), we should plan 
for a dynamic future, and not entrench anachronistic, 
historical  patterns  and  privileges.  The  Uniting 
for  Consensus  group  recommends  such  a  viable 
intermediate  solution.  Let  us  not  forget  that  it  is  our 
collective  responsibility  to  revitalize  the  Assembly 
so that it can play its rightful role for peace, stability, 
sustainable  development  and 
the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  This  is  a  new  era.  Let  us 
not hark back but look forward.
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I 
congratulate  the  President  upon  his  election  and 
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
different activities of the Organization (A/68/1).
Development  is  an  important  source  of  financing 
and  support  for  many  developing  countries.  In  spite 
of  the  importance  that  we  attach  to  other  sources  of 
financing,  there  is  no  substitute  for  public  financing. 
We  are  concerned  by  what  we  read  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  regarding  a  decline 
in  official 
development  assistance  for  the  period  2011-2012.  We 
hope  that  the  developed  countries  will  honour  their 
commitments.
The Secretary-General’s report does not take into 
account  the  concerns  of  the  developing  countries, 
in  particular  the  implementation  of  the  promises  and 
commitments  already  made,  in  particular  on  how  to 
implement  the  fact  that  developed  countries  provide 
financing,  build  capacity  and  transfer  technologies 
to  developing  countries  as  part  of 
international 
efforts  to  promote  sustainable  development  because 
of  their  historic  responsibility,  climate  change  and 
environmental  obstacles  to  development,  and  given 
their financial and technological resources, pursuant to 
principle 7 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development,  conerning  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility.  We  welcome  more  vigorous  United 
Nations  efforts 
in 
development,  in  particular  through  the  financing  of 
peacebuilding programmes through the Peacebuilding 
Fund  and  through  cooperation  with  regional  and 
international financial institutions.
to  assist  African  countries 
The  situations  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central 
African  Republic  require  peacebuilding  in  line  with 
an comprehensive perspective that takes account of the 
specificities  of  each  of  the  two  countries  rather  than 
one model and lessons learned from the past and from 
experience with the six countries on the agenda of the 
Peacebuilding Commission.
With  respect  to  peacebuilding  under  the  Charter, 
Egypt welcomes the United Nations role in democratic 
transformation,  including  in  Egypt  in  line  with  its 
national  priorities.  We  express  our  concern  regarding 
the treatment of the situation in Egypt in the report’s 
chapter  on  international  security  and  peacebuilding. 
Ours  is  an  internal  situation  that  does  not  threaten 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Secretary-
General  has  said  that  this  is  an  Egyptian  matter  and 
that it is the responsibility of Egyptians to resolve this 
issue for a better future.
I  reaffirm  that  the  Government  of  Egypt  is 
committed  to  implementing  the  road  map  within 
the  agreed  timelines,  to  holding  presidential  and 
parliamentary  elections  by  the  deadline  of  May  2014, 
and  to  repudiating  terrorism  and  violence.  We  accept 
the  principles  of  the  rule  of  law,  respect  for  human 
24/26 
13-50522
09/10/2013 
A/68/PV.32
rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy, equality 
and justice for all.
Regarding  justice  and  international  law,  Egypt 
recognizes the importance of respecting the judgement 
of  international  law.  We  believe  that  peaceful  means 
should be used to settle disputes pursuant to international 
law,  including  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and 
international arbitration. We hope that the international 
humanitarian summit will be prepared with an agenda 
that  will  build  national  capacities  in  developing 
countries  so  that  they  will  be  able  to  deal  with  their 
crises and offer solutions that will promote sustainable 
development through their national institutions.
Although 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution  60/1)  and  other  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  support  the  responsibility  to  protect,  the 
definition  of  that  principle  is  still  subject  to  different 
interpretations  among  Member  States  out  of  fear  that 
it will be used in a way that is contrary to the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore  stress  that  there 
should be no politicization or pretext for interfering in 
the internal affairs of States.
Egypt  welcomes  ongoing  social  activities 
to 
promote  women’s  rights,  as  highlighted  in  the  report. 
We  would  have  hoped  that  the  report  would  have 
addressed last year’s accomplishments, for example in 
preventing violence against women and violence during 
conflicts.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  work 
with  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Nuclear 
Disarmament, his efforts to promote a fissile material 
working  group,  and  for  his  disarmament  efforts.  We 
thank  him  for  stressing  the  humanitarian  aspect  of 
nuclear  disarmament.  He  has  stated  that  the  2012 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass 
destruction had been welcomed, but has not named the 
State responsible for quashing it.
We  draw  attention  to  our  interest  in  seeing  the 
conference  convened  on  basis  of  the  most  recent 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as noted 
by  the  Secretary-General  and  the  three  depositary 
countries.  We  reaffirm  that  the  universalization  of 
the NPT is the foundation of the international nuclear 
disarmament system.
We  cannot  equate  nuclear  disarmament  with  any 
other issue. The Secretary-General has commented on 
the illegal proliferation of small arms and light weapons. 
We  affirm  that  countries  producing,  accumulating, 
benefiting  from  and  exporting  such  weapons  are  the 
source  of  that  proliferation.  Egypt  reaffirms  that  the 
Arms Trade Treaty must take into account the interests 
of exporting and importing countries and the right of 
States  to  self-defence  and  to  export  weapons  within 
legal  rules.  We  support  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General to strengthen the position of the Organization 
in this area.
We welcome the progress made in administration 
in the areas of International Public Sector Accounting 
Standards,  Umoja  and  human-resource  management. 
We support the principle of mobility as long as financial 
resources are available. We do not want it to be promoted 
at  the  expense  of  the  Organization’s  other  priorities, 
such as development. Egypt is ready to open dialogue 
with the President and others for specific results at this 
session as as to move forward in our actions for peace, 
justice and development.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
I have had a request from one delegation to speak 
in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr. Kim In Kyong (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  I  am  speaking  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply  regarding  the  Japanese  delegation’s  allegations 
concerning the abductions issue and the Korean nuclear 
issue.
First, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  I  fully  reject 
the 
preposterous  allegation  of  the  Japanese  delegation 
regarding the abductions issue. As we have made clear 
on  several  occasions,  the  issue  of  the  abductions  of 
Japanese  was  completely  and  cleanly  resolved  thanks 
to  our  sincere  and  genuine  efforts  to  implement 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-Japan 
Pyongyang Declaration.
13-50522
25/26
A/68/PV.32 
09/10/2013
The continued attempts of the Japanese delegation 
to raise the already resolved abductions issue are part 
of  their  entire  hostile  policy  towards  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, which has persisted for half 
a  century  and  is  aimed  at  hiding  their  past  inhuman 
crimes  against  the  Korean  people.  Japan  should 
sincerely  atone  for  its  past  crimes  against  humanity, 
as  unanimously  demanded  by 
international 
community, rather than play tricks with the abductions 
issue, which has already been resolved.
the 
Secondly,  on  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  we  have  already  stated  several  times  how 
the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  originated. 
The  nuclear  issue  originated  because  of  the  United 
States and its hostility towards the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. The United States has defined the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  as  an  enemy 
and seeks to eliminate our political system.
My  country  possesses  a  nuclear  deterrent  not 
because of ambitions but because it had to counter the 
threat.  It  has  already  been  reported  that,  at  this  very 
moment,  a  strike  group  made  up  of  United  States 
ships  —  including  the  large  nuclear-powered  carrier 
USS George Washington with at least 100 nuclear bombs 
aboard,  many  guided-missile  destroyers,  cruisers, 
submarines  and  escort  warships  —  is  engaging  in  a 
military exercise.
That is why, in exercise of the right of reply to the 
allegation of the Japanese delegation on the abductions 
issue  and  the  nuclear  issue,  I  once  again  reject  all 
allegations made by Japan.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, as 
contained in document A/68/1?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 111.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
26/26 
13-50522
