United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
42nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 31 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.42
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Picco (Monaco), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (see A/68/314)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/68/364  
and A/68/366)
Mr.  Estremé  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Argentina  expresses  its  appreciation  and  recognition 
of  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Mr. Sang-Hyun Song, for presenting the report of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/68/314)  to  the 
General  Assembly.  We  also  particularly  acknowledge 
the  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  which  contains 
to 
the  implementation  of  article  3  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International Criminal Court (A/68/364), as requested 
by the General Assembly in resolution 67/295.
the  United  Nations  and 
information  relevant 
The  Rome  Statute  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC) are among the most notable achievements 
of multilateral diplomacy, and their contribution to the 
fight  against  impunity  with  regard  to  crimes  against 
humanity,  genocide  and  war  crimes  is  evident.  Little 
more  than  a  decade  since  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  the  Court  is  a  fully  functioning  permanent 
international  criminal  tribunal.  Argentina  commends 
the fact that there are to date 122 States parties to the 
Rome Statute, and 11 States have ratified the Kampala 
amendments.
The  other  issue  that  I  would  like  to  highlight 
concerns  the  crime  of  aggression.  My  country,  like 
many other States parties, is committed to the earliest 
possible  ratification  of  the  Kampala  amendments. 
Despite  the  great  difficulty  of  having  a  substantive 
reference  to  the  crime  of  aggression  in  the  Assembly 
resolution,  owing  to  the  strong  opposition  of  a  small 
handful of delegations, Argentina will continue to work 
towards achieving 30 ratifications before 2017 so as to 
be able to establish the Court’s jurisdiction in that way, 
as foreseen in Kampala.
With the passing of time since the entry into force 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  the  necessary  accountability 
for  crimes  under  the  Statute  has  become  integrated 
in a tangible way into the deliberations of the United 
Nations and of the entire international community. The 
Security  Council  has  done  so,  integrating  the  Court 
itself in its consideration of specific situations. All that 
has strengthened the fight against impunity. However, 
there remain challenges that must be overcome.
Mutual 
between 
cooperation 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court  is  crucial,  with  full  respect 
for  the  Court’s  judicial  independence.  The  issue  of 
non-essential contacts with persons upon whom arrest 
warrants have been served falls under the cooperation 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations  provided 
for  in  the  Relationship  Agreement.  Argentina  thanks 
the  Secretary-General  for  having 
included  such 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-54081 (E)
*1354081*
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
information  in  his  report  (A/68/364).  Essentially, 
however, it is the cooperation of States with the Court 
that is the fundamental aspect of the Court’s ability to 
discharge its mandate. The requirement to cooperate is 
particularly relevant to arrest warrants.
With  regard  to  referrals  made  by  the  Security 
Council, Argentina understands that the Council cannot 
just take note of the reports of the Prosecutor or of the 
Court  without  following  up  on  compliance  with  the 
requirement to cooperate with the Court, or on certain 
situations  in  the  field  such  as  the  detention  of  Court 
personnel in 2012.
Argentina,  which  is  currently  a  member  of  the 
Security Council, welcomes the commitment made by 
the Council in presidential statement S/PRST/2013/2 of 
12 February 2013, to an effective follow-up of Council 
decisions  with  regard 
tribunals, 
including the ICC. We therefore urge Council members 
to make that commitment effective through a specific 
follow-up mechanism for the situations that the Council 
has referred to the Court.
international 
to 
There are other elements about which my delegation 
is  concerned.  However,  I  would  like  to  highlight  one 
aspect  relating  to  the  way  in  which  the  Council  has 
made  referrals  to  the  ICC  and  the  way  in  which  the 
General Assembly deals with that. It involves an issue 
that can seriously impact the Court.
In establishing that none of the costs stemming from 
the two referrals to the Court would be met by the United 
Nations but by the States parties to the Rome Statute, 
the Council has distanced itself from the provision of 
article 115 (b) of the Rome Statute and article 13 of the 
Relationship  Agreement.  With  the  increasing  number 
of cases, the pressures on the resources available to the 
Court have been acknowledged. In practical terms, not 
to consider the funding of referrals could jeopardize the 
Court’s long-term viability.
Resolution 67/295, adopted in August, acknowledged, 
as the resolution to that effect does every year, the need 
for  funding  for  the  investigations  and  judgements  of 
the Court, including for the situations referred by the 
Security  Council.  The  resolution,  however,  makes  no 
mention  of  the  way  in  which  the  funding  should  be 
provided  for,  in  particular  with  regard  to  referrals  by 
the Council. That was owing to the opposition of a very 
few delegations, despite the fact that it concerns a norm 
of the Rome Statute and the Relationship Agreement, as 
I have just pointed out.
Argentina  would  like  to  underscore  that  fighting 
impunity is the aim of the States parties to the Rome 
Statute and also of the United Nations. However, that 
objective must go hand in hand with the commitment to 
provide the Court with the resources necessary for it to 
discharge its mandate.
That  commitment  is  not  foreign  to  the  United 
Nations,  given  that  it  has  been  evident  with  respect 
to  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  established  by  the  Security 
Council. It must now be addressed with respect to the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The  lack  of  any  action 
with regard to the funding to be provided by the United 
Nations  under  article  115  of  the  Rome  Statute  will 
only negatively impact those cases currently before the 
Court and the proprio motu work of the Prosecutor.
In 2012, 10 years had elapsed since the establishment 
of the International Criminal Court. Today, the Court is 
a permanent and fully mature tribunal, the centre of the 
criminal justice system of the international community. 
However, we States parties face challenges. The issues 
raised by the African Union are central to the current 
debate  concerning  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Argentina  believes  that  we  must  continue  a  frank 
dialogue  among  all  actors  regarding  such  issues  and 
concerns,  with  care  not  to  impinge  on  the  judicial 
independence of the Court.
In conclusion, I would like to state once again that 
Argentina believes that the International Criminal Court 
is  one  of  the  most  notable  contributions  to  the  fight 
against impunity. I wish to recall that one of our stated 
aims  is  to  ensure  the  noble  mission  and  the  function 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral 
system that seeks to end impunity, to establish the rule 
of law, to promote and support respect of human rights 
and  to  achieve  a  lasting  peace,  in  accordance  with 
international law and the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations. I would like to reiterate 
that the Argentine Republic is fully committed to the 
International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Wenaweser 
(Liechtenstein):  This  year’s 
debate on the report (see A/68/314) of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) comes at a time when the Court 
finds itself in the headlines more frequently than any 
of  us  could  have  imagined  at  the  Rome  Conference 
15 years ago. Some of the Court’s activities are evoking 
strong  reactions,  particularly  in  Africa,  where  the 
Court has been most active so far. The challenge for us, 
collectively, is to address those political challenges in a 
2/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
manner that is fully consistent with the law contained 
in  the  Rome  Statute.  We  are  satisfied  to  see  that  the 
necessary  dialogue  has  commenced  and  look  forward 
to continuing it, particularly among States parties.
The Rome Statute system has put accountability for 
the most serious crimes within the reach of conflict and 
post-conflict  societies.  That  is  a  profound  paradigm 
shift  following  decades  of  impunity  in  many  parts  of 
the world, a shift made possible by the strong political 
will of the States that gathered in Rome. They did so 
not because they thought that fighting impunity would 
be  an  easy  thing  to  do,  but  because  it  was  the  right 
thing to do. Today, as we discuss the work of the Court, 
we should remember the spirit of Rome. We should be 
ready for constructive dialogue with the critics, but also 
ready to stand up for our principles.
Looking at the Court’s judicial record, we believe 
that it has been doing precisely what we have asked it 
to do: investigate and prosecute those who are alleged 
to  bear  the  greatest  responsibility  for  crimes  under 
the  Rome  Statute,  follow  the  evidence  and  apply  the 
law. Nevertheless, the Court has been subject to much 
criticism.  Such  criticism  is  in  reality  often  directed 
against  the  Security  Council,  which  has  referred  two 
cases to the ICC and thereby extended its jurisdiction 
over  non-States  parties.  We  do  not  find  any  evidence 
that the decisions of the Court itself are in any manner 
motivated by politics rather than the law.
In  order 
to  counteract  misconceptions  and 
politically  motivated  criticism,  all  States  that  believe 
in justice should strengthen their support for the Court, 
diplomatically,  politically,  financially.  We  must  show 
greater ownership over the system we have established 
and continue to improve it from within. In that regard, I 
would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to a recent 
initiative  by  Botswana,  Jordan  and  Liechtenstein  that 
would add a provision to the Court’s rules of procedure 
and  evidence.  The  proposal  addresses  the  important 
issue of presence at trial and the possibility of presence 
via  videoconferencing,  if  exceptional  circumstances 
so  require.  We  hope  that  the  initiative  can  be  one 
significant  part  of  a  more  comprehensive  response  to 
the  recent  controversies.  Most  importantly,  it  would 
illustrate  the  willingness  of  States  parties  to  do  their 
part to assist the Court at a difficult time.
States parties should also make every effort to ensure 
the  highest  possible  quality  of  judges.  Nominating 
the  most  qualified  judicial  candidates  is  the  most 
important  measure  in  that  respect.  Recent  experience 
also  illustrates  that  we  must  put  greater  emphasis  on 
ensuring  witness  protection.  That  is  an  urgent  task 
and  of  essential  importance  for  the  effectiveness  of 
the Court. Much can be learned from the experience of 
other international and mixed tribunals in that regard.
Finally,  we  must  also  ensure  that  we  equip  the 
Court with the financial resources it needs to fulfil its 
mandate  successfully.  Otherwise,  budget  constraints 
could  hamper  the  quality  of  ongoing  activities  and 
prevent  the  Court  from  opening  new  investigations, 
as the Prosecutor has warned. We also must also find 
a  sustainable  solution  for  the  financing  of  Security 
Council referrals, in accordance with the Relationship 
Agreement between the United Nations and the Court.
We  welcome  the  increased  collaboration  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC.  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  issuing  thoughtful  guidance 
on limiting contacts with persons who are the subject 
of  arrest  warrants  or  summonses.  It  is  essential  that 
those  guidelines  are  implemented  consistently  and 
that  their  implementation  continue  to  be  monitored 
by  the  Secretary-General’s  office.  We  welcome  the 
efforts  of  certain  high-level  United  Nations  officials 
to  communicate  essential  contacts  with  persons  who 
are the subject of arrest warrants well in advance. At 
the same time, we believe that it is important that all 
United Nations personnel not engage with indictees on 
their own authority. We hope that States that have not 
yet done so will develop their own policies on limiting 
contacts with fugitives, based on those principles.
A significant advance in the relationship between 
the Court and the United Nations was the adoption of 
Security Council resolution 2100 (2013). That decision 
mandated 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali  to  support 
efforts  to  execute  ICC  arrest  warrants  related  to 
crimes committed in that country. That could serve as 
a  blueprint  for  other  situations  as  well,  in  particular 
those  referred  to  the  ICC  by  the  Council  itself.  That 
positive  step,  however,  cannot  mask  the  fact  that, 
overall, the manner in which the Council deals with the 
Court remains problematic. Greater consistency by the 
Council and, most of all, more credible follow-up on its 
own referral decisions would be in the interest of both 
the Council and the Court.
The  recent  events  in  Syria  have  reminded  us  of 
the  importance  of  the  Kampala  amendments  to  the 
13-54081
3/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
Rome Statute adopted in 2010. At the Kampala Review 
Conference,  we  added  provisions  that  criminalize  the 
use  of  poisonous  and  other  gases  no  matter  whether 
they  are  used  in  international  or  in  non-international 
armed conflict.
the  light  of  the  evolving  situations  in  some  African 
countries.  It  is  highly  regrettable  that  its  repeated 
requests  regarding  certain  cases  have  not  been  acted 
upon by the International Criminal Court, the Security 
Council or the Assembly of States Parties.
But  the  biggest  step  forward  made  in  Kampala 
are the amendments on the crime of aggression. They 
complement the prohibition of the illegal use of force 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
most  serious  forms  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  by  one 
State against another will become a punishable offence 
before  the  Court.  The  ICC  will  thereby  help  enforce 
the core principle of the rule of law at the international 
level.
With the recent ratifications by Andorra, Cyprus, 
Slovenia  and  Uruguay,  we  have  come  an  important 
step closer to the activation of the Court’s jurisdiction 
over  the  crime  of  aggression  in  the  year  2017.  We 
will  continue  to  offer  assistance  to  States  that  are 
interested in ratifying and implementing the Kampala 
amendments,  and  we  will  encourage  States  that  are 
interested in joining the ICC to ratify the Rome Statute 
in its 2010 version.
Mr. Giorgio (Eritrea): My delegation takes note of 
the report (see A/68/614) of the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) and would like to offer some comments on 
agenda item 75.
Eritrea  firmly  believes  in  an  international  order 
well grounded in full respect for the rule of law. Eritrea 
is a signatory to the Rome Statute and signed it in good 
faith.  Although  not  a  State  party,  Eritrea  is  seriously 
concerned about the development of ICC activities. The 
current  state  of  implementation  does  not  seem  to  do 
what was envisaged at the entry into force of the Rome 
Statute on 1 July 2002.
Eritrea shares the same concerns raised by African 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  during  the  recent 
Extraordinary Session of the African Union Executive 
Council, held in Addis Ababa, with the theme of Africa’s 
relationship with the International Criminal Court.
Indeed,  over  the  past  years,  instead  of  serving 
justice  and  fairness,  more  consideration  has  been 
given  to  politics.  Unless  adequately  and  immediately 
redressed,  that  approach  will  further  undermine  the 
entire international criminal justice system.
Moreover, in September, Eritrea, along with other 
African  States,  filed  an  amicus  curiae  observation 
to  the  Appeals  Chamber  that  elaborates  on  how  a 
cooperating  individual  who  concurrently  occupies  a 
high  Government  office  should  be  handled  in  order 
to  encourage  State  cooperation  without  endangering 
that  office-holder’s  constitutional 
rights.  Eritrea, 
as  a  non-State  party  to  the  ICC,  willingly  joined  the 
observation with information that could help the court 
apply the law impartially.
The unacceptable treatment of African States and 
their  leaders  by  the  ICC  is  aggravating  the  current 
situation  rather  than  addressing  the  root  cause  of  the 
problem. The present challenge concerns not only the 
future  management  of  international  criminal  justice, 
including cases of impunity and violence in the world, 
but also the way in which States relate to each other in 
the context of the international justice system.
Challenges  are  better  addressed  through  a  candid 
and realistic exchange of views, based on full respect 
for the rule of law within the family of nations. We hope 
we will be able to act in a manner that reflects a deep 
understanding  of  the  complexities  of  nation-building 
as  revealed  by  several  African  cases  and  the  African 
Union discussions on the ICC.
In that context, let me add the voice of Eritrea in 
urging the General Assembly to work for comprehensive 
reform  of  multilateral 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  ICC.  Our  collective  efforts 
for  justice,  equality  and  fairness  must  continue  to  be 
consolidated.
institutions, 
including 
My  delegation  wishes  to  stress  that  the  notion  of 
an effective multilateral system can be achieved only if 
it is based on unambiguous and transparent rules that 
apply  to  all  players  without  selectivity,  politicization 
or  double  standards,  in  order  to  build  an  enduring 
relationship  based  on  a  shared  commitment  to  peace, 
security, justice and opportunity.
Mr.  Rowe  (Australia):  Australia  would  like  to 
thank President Song for his report (see A/68/314).
The  African  Union  has  intensively  discussed  its 
relationship  with  the  International  Criminal  Court  in 
Australia is both shocked and appalled that today, 
some  70  years  after  the  Second  World  War,  and 
4/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
serious 
20  years  after  the  tragedies  in  the  former  Yugoslavia 
and  Rwanda, 
international  crimes  are 
continuing  to  be  committed,  and  committed  on  an 
alarming scale. Every day we are presented with fresh 
evidence that children, women and men have been the 
victims  of  unimaginable  atrocities  that  deeply  shock 
the conscience of humankind. All too often such crimes 
are neither investigated nor prosecuted, which sends a 
dangerous message to would-be perpetrators that their 
acts will be tolerated.
international  crimes  committed  on 
It  was  in  response  to  such  concerns  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was  established. 
States  have  the  primary  responsibility  to  prosecute 
serious 
their 
territory  or  by  their  nationals.  However,  as  a  court 
of  last  resort,  the  ICC  has  a  critical  role  to  play  in 
advancing the international community’s fight against 
impunity. That is why Australia is, and will remain, an 
unflinching supporter of the ICC, and why we will do 
everything in our power to help achieve the aims and 
objectives of the Rome Statute.
We  commend  all  organs  of  the  Court  on  the 
contribution they have made so far to the establishment 
of  the  Court  as  a  significant  part  of  the  international 
architecture.  The  international  community  can  take 
great  pride  in  the  progress  that  has  been  made  since 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute.  In  particular,  we 
welcome  the  surrender  this  year  of  Bosco  Ntaganda 
and the ratifications by a growing number of States of 
amendments on war crimes and the crime of aggression.
We  also  welcome  the  ratification  of  the  Rome 
Statute  this  year  by  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  the  progress 
being made towards universalization of the Statute, on 
which  Australia  is  actively  working,  including  in  the 
Pacific region. We encourage States that have not yet 
done so to ratify the Rome Statute and to join Australia 
and the parties to the Statute in seeking justice for the 
victims of serious international crimes.
In providing our unwavering support to the Court, 
we  acknowledge  the  concerns  raised  regarding  the 
ICC’s  approach  to  a  number  of  matters,  including 
concerns  raised  by  the  African  Union  in  relation  to 
the  cases  against  Kenya’s  President  Kenyatta  and 
Deputy  President  Ruto.  Australia  has  welcomed  the 
opportunity to engage in an exchange of views with the 
African Union and with Kenya. We are ready to listen 
closely to those concerns. We are also confident that we 
will be able to work together to find a constructive way 
forward, and also look forward to discussions on this 
issue at the upcoming meeting of the ICC Assembly of 
States Parties.
While solutions are being discussed, it is important 
to  recall  that  all  States  must  fulfil  their  obligations 
under  international  law,  whether  such  obligations 
derive from being a party to the Rome Statute or from 
resolutions of the Security Council.
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  underscore  our 
view  that  it  is  imperative  that  the  Security  Council 
provide  ongoing  support  to  the  ICC,  especially  in 
relation  to  situations  it  has  referred  to  the  Court.  At 
the  same  time,  we  wish  to  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  guidance  to  the  Secretariat  on  contact  with 
persons  subject  to  arrest  warrants.  We  call  on  the 
United Nations to implement that policy strictly.
The International Criminal Court was born out of 
the  international  community’s  collective  commitment 
to hold those accused of serious international crimes to 
account and to bring at least a measure of justice to the 
victims of those crimes. That is a goal that we surely 
all  share.  Australia,  for  its  part,  remains  committed 
to working with all States to ensure that we turn that 
aspiration into a reality.
Mr.  Diener  Sala  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Mexico  would  like  to  thank  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  for  his 
presentation  of  the  Court’s  ninth  annual  report  (see 
A/68/314)  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  welcome 
Mr.  Herman  von  Hebel  as  Registrar  of  the  Court  and 
Mr. James Stewart as Deputy Prosecutor, both of whom 
have been in their positions since the start of 2013. We 
wish them every success as they proceed to discharge 
their responsibilities.
Mexico welcomes Côte d’Ivoire’s adherence to the 
Rome Statute during the reporting period, which brings 
the  number  of  States  parties  to  122.  We  reiterate  our 
energetic  call  on  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done 
so  to  adhere  to  the  Rome  Statute  without  delay.  The 
earliest  possible  universalization  of  that  important 
instrument  is  a  goal  of  which  we  must  not  lose  sight 
in our common effort to combat impunity for the most 
heinous crimes in the world.
The  report  presented  today  demonstrates  the 
real  progress  made  in  the  judicial  activities  and 
investigations  of  the  Court.  The  period  under  review 
includes,  among  other  things,  the  first  voluntary 
13-54081
5/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
surrender  by  a  person  subject  to  an  arrest  warrant  of 
the Court, more extensive judicial activity by the Court 
regarding  participation  by  victims  and  reparations, 
and  the  launching  of  an  investigation  into  a  situation 
referred  by  a  State  in  2012.  That,  together  with  legal 
developments  in  the  various  situations  that  the  Court 
has  been  examining,  shows  not  only  the  progressive 
consolidation  of  international  criminal  jurisprudence, 
but also the growing credibility and trust in the system 
set  up  by  the  Rome  Statute.  Despite  the  undeniable 
progress, fundamental challenges remain to be solved 
before the Court can effectively discharge its mandate, 
and we believe that the United Nations makes a positive 
contribution to that end as well.
First, we agree with the President of the Court that 
there is a need for the firm and constant support of the 
international  community.  Mexico  is  and  always  has 
been an active supporter of the Court, and it reaffirms 
its  continued  support  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  the  objectives  for  which  it  was  created. 
We  underscore  the  relevance  and  value  of  the  Court 
as an independent permanent judicial body to combat 
impunity in respect of the most egregious crimes at the 
international level, when the State involved is unwilling 
or unable to actually take action.
We commend the ongoing dialogue and collaboration 
between the United Nations and the Court, and we urge 
the United Nations to continue that work. In the same 
regard, we commend the President of the Court and its 
other organs for participating in the special session on 
international  criminal  law,  a  meeting  held  in  April  at 
the  Organization  of  American  States,  on  the  basis  of 
a  resolution  which  Mexico  submits  biannually  to  that 
organization.
Secondly,  my  delegation  wishes  to  stress  the 
critical  importance  of  the  cooperation  of  States  in 
executing  arrest  warrants  and  detention  orders  issued 
by the Court. Mexico deplores the lack of cooperation, 
sometimes  open  and  explicit,  exhibited  by  some 
States. That affects the effectiveness of the system and 
perpetuates impunity for serious crimes. We welcome 
the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  revised  policy  on 
non-essential  contacts  with  persons  subject  to  arrest 
warrants from the Court. We urge the United Nations 
to implement its policy strictly in order to help promote 
cooperation with the Court.
The  report  shows  that  the  two  situations  referred 
by  the  Security  Council  to  the  Court  faced  a  lack  of 
cooperation  from  both  the  States  and  other  States.  In 
some cases the Court notified the Security Council of 
the lack of cooperation. There is an urgent need for the 
Security Council to immediately follow up on situations 
referred  to  the  Court  so  as  to  promote  cooperation 
between  States  and  the  Court.  We  welcome  the  open 
debate  held  by  the  Security  Council  in  October  2012 
on the role of the Court (see S/PV.6849), and we urge 
the  Council  to  continue  with  initiatives  that  promote 
the strengthening of the relationship between the two 
bodies.
to 
like 
Thirdly,  Mexico  would 
recall  one 
fundamental issue that must be dealt with if the Court is 
to be strengthened, namely, the allocation of adequate 
resources so that it can carry out its work effectively. 
In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  General  Assembly,  in 
accordance with its powers, to implement the provisions 
of article 115 of the Rome Statute in order to allocate 
sufficient  funds  to  finance  the  Court’s  expenditures 
occurring  in  situations  referred  to  it  by  the  Security 
Council.
Finally,  given 
the  violations  currently  being 
committed  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  Mexico 
would stress that the Security Council must be guided 
by  objective  criteria  and  not  by  politicized  criteria, 
in  referring  situations  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  In  that  way  the  international  community  can 
help to ensure that international crimes do not remain 
unpunished.
Mexico 
the 
International Criminal Court and stands ready to work 
towards the common goal of combatting impunity for 
international  crimes,  both  within  the  United  Nations 
and in other relevant forums.
commitment 
to 
reaffirms 
its 
Ms.  Intelmann  (Estonia):  Estonia  aligns  itself 
with the statement delivered on behalf of the European 
Union.  The  present  statement  is  delivered  in  my 
capacity as President of the Assembly of States Parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  and  as  Estonia’s  Ambassador-at-
large for the International Criminal Court.
The report of the Court (see A/68/314) demonstrates 
how  the  Court  is  working  to  meet  the  challenging 
mandate that States gave to it under the Rome Statute. 
There are now eight active situations under the Court’s 
consideration,  a  considerable  number  of  which  were 
referred by the States concerned. During the past year, 
two  more  countries  referred  their  situations  to  the 
6/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
Court,  thereby  expressing  confidence  in  that  judicial 
institution.
The  growing  membership  of  States  parties  to  the 
Statute further demonstrates that confidence. Over the 
past years, we have witnessed a steady increase in the 
number  of  States  parties.  The  number  now  stands  at 
122. Eleven States have ratified both amendments to the 
Rome  Statute,  which  were  adopted  at  the  Assembly’s 
review  conference  in  Kampala  in  2010.  Three  more 
States have ratified one amendment to the Statute.
States are responsible for the Rome Statute system. 
States  negotiated  the  Rome  Statute,  and  States  are 
responsible  for  the  Court’s  success  and  development. 
States  within 
the  Assembly  have  been  working 
collectively throughout the past year to reinforce their 
support to the Court in critical areas like cooperation 
and  assistance  to  victims.  Some  of  those  activities 
have  taken  place  outside  the  two  traditional  places 
where  Assembly  members  work  —  The  Hague  and 
New York — in various capitals, where they advocate 
for reinforced assistance and to conduct very focused 
discussions with policy makers.
The  Assembly  holds  one  annual  session  this  year 
in  The  Hague  starting  on  20  November.  It  is  crucial 
that all parties to the Statute participate in the meeting, 
as  the  Court  and  the  Rome  Statute  have  come  under 
increased  scrutiny  in  different  forums.  The  coming 
session  will  be  a  critical  moment  to  demonstrate 
our  resolve  to  fight  impunity.  The  annual  Assembly 
session provides an excellent opportunity for a political 
discussion on all matters of concern to States Parties. 
One such opportunity is the general debate. This year 
States  are  also  encouraged  to  speak  on  the  subject  of 
complementarity — to provide information about their 
efforts  to  create  genuine  domestic  infrastructures  for 
accountability for atrocity crimes.
Additionally, given that all of the active situations 
are  on  the  African  continent,  the  coming  Assembly 
session will, at the request of African States, allocate 
a special segment to discussing some of the concerns 
voiced  by  African  States  parties.  I  have  also  invited 
a  high-level  representative  of  the  African  Union  to 
address the opening plenary of the Assembly.
As we prepare for the upcoming Assembly session, 
we  must  also  bear  in  mind  the  victims  of  atrocity 
crimes.  That  includes  assistance  and  reparations,  as 
provided  under  the  Statute.  States  are  encouraged  to 
attend  and  actively  participate  in  the  annual  meeting 
of the Assembly of States Parties in order to strengthen 
our work to ensure accountability for the most serious 
crimes of concern to the international community as a 
whole.
Mr.  Zack  (United  States  of  America):  We  would 
like  to  thank  President  Song  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) for his presentation of the ninth 
annual  report  of  the  ICC  to  the  General  Assembly 
(see  A/68/314),  covering  the  period  from  1  August 
2012 to 31 July 2013. We recognize President Song for 
his continued service to the ICC.
the 
Strengthening accountability for those responsible 
for  the  worst  atrocities  remains  an  important  priority 
for the United States. President Obama has repeatedly 
emphasized 
importance  of  preventing  mass 
atrocities  and  genocide  as  a  core  national  security 
interest and a core moral responsibility for the United 
States.  The  United  States  is  committed  to  working 
with  the  international  community  to  bring  concerted 
international pressure to bear, so as to prevent atrocities 
and ensure accountability for the perpetrators of such 
crimes.  Although  the  United  States  is  not  a  party  to 
the Rome Statute, we recognize that the ICC can and 
does play an important role in a multilateral system that 
seeks to ensure accountability and end impunity.
The ICC is, by its nature, designed only to pursue 
those accused of bearing the greatest responsibility for 
the  most  serious  crimes  within  its  jurisdiction,  when 
States are not willing or able to genuinely investigate 
or prosecute. We therefore continue to support positive 
complementarity 
initiatives  by  assisting  countries 
in  their  efforts  to  develop  domestic  accountability 
processes for atrocity crimes. Accountability and peace 
begin  with  Governments  taking  care  of  their  own 
people.
rule-of-law 
capacity-building 
The  international  community  must  continue  to 
support 
initiatives, 
including  the  creation  of  hybrid  structures  where 
appropriate,  in  order  to  advance  transitional  justice, 
and  it  must  develop  a  shared  approach  to  recurring 
issues, such as coordinated and effective protection for 
witnesses and judicial personnel. From the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  to  Senegal’s  efforts  with  the 
African Union to prosecute Hissène Habré, the United 
States  continues  to  support  efforts  to  build  fair, 
impartial  and  capable  national  justice  systems  and 
hybrid tribunals where appropriate.
13-54081
7/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
At the same time, we must strengthen accountability 
mechanisms at the international level. We will continue 
to work with the ICC to identify practical ways in which 
we can work to advance our mutual goals on a case-by-
case basis and consistent with United States policy and 
laws. In the past year, for example, we worked with the 
Court  and  other  States  to  help  assist  in  the  voluntary 
surrender  to  the  ICC  in  March  of  Bosco  Ntaganda, 
allegedly  responsible  for  atrocities  committed 
in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  That  was  an 
important  moment  for  all  who  believe  in  justice  and 
accountability.
In  January,  President  Obama  signed  into  law  an 
expansion  of  the  United  States  War  Crimes  Rewards 
Program to permit the offer of rewards for information 
leading to the arrest, transfer or conviction of individuals 
accused  of  criminal  responsibility  for  genocide,  war 
crimes  or  crimes  against  humanity  by  any  hybrid  or 
international  criminal  tribunal,  including  the  ICC. 
Shortly  thereafter,  we  added  a  number  of  individuals 
subject  to  ICC  arrest  warrants  to  our  rewards  list, 
including  Joseph  Kony  in  the  Uganda  situation  and 
Sylvestre  Mudacumura,  who  is  still  at  large,  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo situation. We look 
forward to continuing to engage with States parties and 
other States on those and other shared issues of concern, 
such as information-sharing and witness protection.
It  is  critical  that  the  international  community 
remain  committed  to  working  towards  coordinated 
efforts,  both  to  prevent  atrocities  before  they  occur 
and to provide accountability for those responsible for 
atrocities  that  do  happen.  Although  the  international 
community  has  made  progress  on  both  fronts,  much 
work  remains.  The  United  States  remains  committed 
to working in partnership with others to achieve those 
goals. We look forward to continued discussions here at 
the United Nations and to our upcoming participation 
as an observer at the Assembly of States Parties to the 
Rome Statute of the ICC in The Hague next month.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): I join others in 
thanking  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his statement 
and  for  presenting  the  ninth  report  of  the  Court  to 
the  General  Assembly  (see  A/68/314).  I  commend  the 
judges of the ICC for their role in contributing to the 
rule  of  law  and  to  the  development  of  international 
criminal law.
Brazil remains steadfast in its commitment to the 
Rome Statute and to the cause of justice that is its raison 
d’être. The independence of such an important judicial 
institution and the universality of its reach provide the 
foundation for its legitimacy, and legitimacy is perhaps 
the  single  most  important  basis  for  bringing  accused 
persons to justice with fairness and full respect for their 
rights.
Therefore,  Brazil 
is  a  staunch  supporter  of 
Court’s universality. Two thirds of the United Nations 
membership  have  ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  but  that 
does not make it universal. We need to ensure further 
progress towards the adherence of all Member States. 
Enhancing the Court’s legitimacy through universality 
is a means to promote peace and justice. In that context, 
I am pleased to recall that all South American countries 
are parties to the Rome Statute.
Let  me  underscore  the  importance  that  we  attach 
to  the  first  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  took  place  in  Kampala  in  2010  and  in  which 
Brazil was an active participant. The activation of the 
Kampala amendments, in 2017, will represent a major 
contribution  to  completing  the  international  criminal 
justice system adopted in Rome in 1998.
We  also  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Court  has  also 
issued its first judgement, in the Lubanga case, while 
noting that its workload is increasing, including through 
territorial  State  referrals  —  or  self-referrals  —  by  a 
number  of  countries.  On  the  other  hand,  Brazil  has 
spoken out about issues of a structural nature that go to 
the heart of the relationship between the Court and the 
United Nations.
First of all, we reiterate that the prerogative of the 
Security Council to refer cases to the ICC must be used 
with  caution  and  only  after  other  tools  have  proved 
to  be  inadequate  or  insufficient  and  after  thorough 
consideration  has  been  given  to  its  repercussions  for 
the  prospects  of  peace  and  reconciliation.  Moreover, 
the  Council  must  be  rigorous  and  take  a  principled 
approach  when  pursuing  the  referral  track,  avoiding 
double  standards  and  selectivity.  However,  we  regret 
that  the  two  referrals  thus  far  have  been  stained  with 
the  notion  of  selective  criminal  accountability,  by 
which  certain  categories  of  individuals  are  exempted 
from ICC jurisdiction.
Also,  the  acknowledgement  of  the  importance  of 
article  13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  ICC  on  the  conditions  under 
which funds may be provided to the Court when it incurs 
expenses  as  the  result  of  Security  Council  referrals 
8/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
must  go  beyond  rhetoric.  President  Song  himself  has 
questioned the sustainability of a system under which 
referrals are made but the costs of any investigation and 
trial proceedings are met exclusively by the Parties to 
the Rome Statute.
Brazil  made  a  statement  in  explanation  of  vote 
after  the  adoption  of  resolution  67/295  to  voice  in 
unambiguous terms our deep concern over that issue. 
We  agree  with  South  Africa  that  any  say  by  the 
Security Council on the budgetary aspects of a referral 
would usurp the competence of the Assembly, violating 
Article 17 of the Charter of the United Nations.
The  latest  developments  in  Africa,  including  the 
outcomes  of  the  latest  Extraordinary  Summit  of  the 
African Union, are a powerful reminder of the need for 
the Security Council and member States of the Assembly 
of States Parties to engage constructively with African 
States. We need to exercise diplomatic wisdom in order, 
on the one hand, to preserve the international criminal 
justice instruments that we have been building, while on 
the other hand, remaining sensitive to requests that are 
legally sound and enjoy widespread political support.
We must be able to hear the concerns expressed by 
African States, without reservations. We are convinced 
that  there  exists  an  institutional  space  to  diffuse 
polarization,  uphold  respect  for  international  law  and 
the rule of law, and address questions raised by member 
States of the African Union.
justice 
The  quest  for  peace  and 
is  always 
challenging.  It  is  a  key  common  purpose  of  both  the 
United Nations and the Court. Our efforts in that regard 
must  be  informed  by  the  shared  values  that  bring  the 
General  Assembly  together,  having  made  the  first 
permanent,  treaty-based  International  Criminal  Court 
a reality. Brazil stands ready to continue to contribute 
to strengthen both objectives.
Mr. McLay  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand  thanks 
President Song for his report (see A/68/314), and pays 
tribute  to  his  ongoing  service  and  that  of  his  fellow 
judges on the International Criminal Court.
New Zealand has traditionally been a very strong 
supporter of the Court. We have invested in the success 
of  international  judicial  mechanisms,  particularly  the 
Court, and we have been active in encouraging a wide 
membership  in  the  Rome  Statute,  including  through 
work to that end in the Pacific region. We continue to 
urge  widespread  membership  in  the  Statute,  and  we 
will maintain that effort.
New  Zealand  is  committed  to  the  principle  of 
accountability  and  to  the  fight  against  impunity. 
We  also  recognize  that  there  are  a  variety  of  ways  to 
address grave crimes committed in conflict situations 
and  to  rebuild  communities  once  atrocities  have 
been  committed.  National  courts  have  the  primary 
responsibility for  the  prosecution  of such  crimes,  and 
New Zealand supports a focus on complementarity. We 
have also seen the real value of alternatives to formal 
judicial  processes,  such  as  truth  and  reconciliation 
commissions.
Moreover, in particular situations, regional Courts 
also  make  a  lot  of  sense.  They  are  complementary  to 
both  national  and  international  mechanisms.  In  that 
regard,  New  Zealand  is  pleased  to  be  involved  in 
supporting  the  development  of  the  African  Court  on 
Human and Peoples’ Rights.
The diversity of judicial and non-judicial responses 
to allegations that grave crimes have been committed 
in conflict situations demonstrates that every situation 
has its own complex dynamics. There is no single right 
answer.  Finding  a  sustainable  solution  to  a  particular 
conflict  situation,  which  is  also  inevitably  riven 
with  politics,  requires  much  more  than  the  technical 
application of criminal law.
We  cannot  hide  from  the  reality  that  the  Court 
is  currently  facing  the  strongest  challenge  of  its 
10-year  existence.  New  Zealand  recognizes  the  very 
real  concerns  of  the  African  Union  and  Kenya  and 
believes that those concerns require careful and serious 
consideration. We also see the current challenges to the 
Court as an opportunity to put the Court on a more solid 
footing, so that it can continue to serve the international 
community  in  the  future.  The  independence  and 
impartiality  of  the  Court  and  its  processes  are  of 
the  utmost  importance,  and  they  must  be  protected. 
However,  as  States,  we  have  the  responsibility  to 
engage  in  open  dialogue  on  those  challenges.  Most 
importantly,  we  should  be  prepared  to  state  when  we 
think changes might be required.
When a Court loses its credibility in the eyes of a 
large  segment  of  the  community,  those  with  political 
and  legislative  responsibility  have  a  right  and  a  duty 
to act so as to restore its effectiveness and credibility. 
To that end, New Zealand believes that there are ways 
in  which  member  States  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to the Rome Statute can and should respond to 
the  concerns  of  those  States  parties  that  have  raised 
13-54081
9/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
concerns.  Both  individually  and  collectively,  through 
the  Assembly,  States  parties  have  a  responsibility  to 
shoulder some of the burden for making the Court work 
effectively.
Rules are important and must be respected. But they 
are never cast in stone. If there is a problem with the 
rules, Member States must be willing to sit down with 
colleagues  to  work  constructively  in  order  to  address 
those concerns. We must look for procedural solutions, 
including  the  use  of  modern  technology,  and  find 
pragmatic  ways  to  address  the  reality  of  summoning 
a  sitting  head  of  State  before  the  Court.  We  urge  all 
States parties and Member States to go to the Assembly 
of States Parties meeting in November, ready to engage 
in its work and with the political will to find solutions.
The Court and its rules must not make it difficult 
for States parties to cooperate. The Court’s framework 
should  be  able  to  accommodate  a  more  flexible  and 
pragmatic approach to participation in proceedings, an 
approach  that  recognizes  exceptional  circumstances. 
In  such  situations,  we  need  to  empower  the  Court  to 
facilitate  cooperation.  All  those  involved  in  the  work 
of the Court, including the Office of the Prosecutor as 
well as States parties, must act in ways that support and 
encourage  cooperation,  taking  into  account  the  long-
term interests of the Court and the wider international 
community.
As a result of concerns with regard to current cases 
before the Court and other matters, Kenya and members 
of  the  African  Union  have  called  on  the  Security 
Council  to  defer  those  cases.  Under  article  16  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  the  right  to  request  a  unquestionable 
deferral  exists,  and  that  should  be  recognized.  There 
is  a  legitimate  expectation  that  when  issues  related 
to  the  Court  are  raised,  the  Security  Council  will  act 
responsibly and respectfully. The request by the African 
Union  and  Kenya  must,  therefore,  be  considered  by 
the  Security  Council  with  an  open  mind  and  a  true 
willingness to hear and give proper consideration to all 
sides of the argument.
New  Zealand  therefore  believes  that  the  power  of 
deferral, like the power of referral, should be used with 
great care and restraint, as mentioned by Brazil earlier. 
It also believes that we should not be afraid to use that 
power  in  appropriate  circumstances.  Deferral  should 
contribute  to  international  peace  and  security,  and  it 
must be temporary. In that regard, New Zealand notes 
that a deferral might allow more time for the Court and 
the Assembly of States Parties to work on resolving the 
concerns raised by Africa.
In  order  for  the  Court  to  remain  viable,  there 
needs to be an honest and respectful recognition of the 
challenges and an openness to have dialogue on how best 
to address those challenges. Because of our consistent 
and strong support for the Court, New Zealand believes 
it is necessary to urge the Court and the Assembly of 
States Parties to work on addressing the concerns that 
have been raised.
In short, New Zealand is committed to playing its 
part in these challenging times and to resolving those 
issues in a manner that will allow the Court to thrive 
as a significant and permanent part of the international 
architecture.
Mr. Cancela (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): I wish 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  presenting  the  annual 
report of the Court (see A/68/314).
Uruguay  has  historically  supported  resolving 
disputes  through  the  law,  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. Today 
we would like to highlight the important activity of the 
international  courts  in  meting  out  justice,  and  trying 
offenders, whoever they may be and wherever they may 
be.  After  the  atrocious  violations  of  human  rights  in 
the  1990s  in  Rwanda  and  the  former  Yugoslavia  and 
the  establishment  of  the  respective  ad  hoc  tribunals, 
the 
that  an 
international  criminal  court  was  finally  needed  to 
discourage  any  repetition  of  such  aberrations  and  so 
that those responsible for any such acts could be judged 
with the full weight of the law, whether at the national 
or international level.
international  community  understood 
This year we are celebrating the fifteenth anniversary 
of  the  adoption  of  the  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  As  we  mark  this  anniversary,  we 
welcome  the  development  and  historical  evolution  of 
international law, but fundamentally it is to pay tribute 
to  the  maturity  of  the  international  community  in  its 
fight against impunity.
Our  country  notes  with  satisfaction  that  since 
the  signing  of  the  Rome  treaty,  membership  in  the 
Court  has  increased  significantly.  It  now  has  122 
members,  equivalent  to  almost  two  thirds  of  the 
current  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We  hope 
that  this  trend  will  continue  and  increase  so  that  the 
10/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
memberships of both organs will be equal in the near 
future,  and  so  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  can 
extend automatically to all of humanity. Likewise, we 
hope  that  member  States  will  remain  such  and  will 
reconsider  the  idea  of  denouncing  the  Rome  treaty, 
because  that  would  be  a  harmful  step  backwards  in 
terms  of  the  primacy  of  justice  in  acts  committed  by 
men.
Uruguay, after ratifying the Rome Statute, was the 
first country in Latin America to deposit its instrument 
of  ratification.  This  year  we  have  the  high  honour  of 
being the first in Latin America to have deposited the 
instrument of ratification of the Kampala amendments 
to  the  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
These two acts demonstrate our level of commitment to 
the Court. Currently 11 member States have ratified the 
amendments. We urge other member States in the region 
and other regions to do so, so that the amendments can 
enter into force as soon as possible, that is, by 2017.
We decided to take on the responsibility of becoming 
the regional coordinator for the Group of Latin American 
and Caribbean Countries for cases of non-cooperation 
with  the  Court.  That  is  a  considerable  task,  and, 
together with the other three coordinators, we can help 
the President of the Assembly of States Parties to the 
Staatute whenever there is a case of non-cooperation. 
We hope soon to have the last regional coordinator, for 
a region that is not yet represented. Both steps taken this 
year denote Uruguay’s strong commitment to the Court 
as representative of international criminal justice.
With  regard  to  cases  referred  to  the  Court  by  the 
Security Council, we are pleased that this practice was 
established  and  trust  that  its  use  will  continue.  The 
impact of armed conflicts and the growing number of 
those responsible for serious violations of human rights 
continue  to  be  quite  disturbing.  As  a  corollary,  we 
believe that the Security Council should act consistently 
when faced with similar cases or situations.
We  cannot  pretend  that  the  Council  feels  bound 
by  its  previous  actions  because  it  is  not  a  court,  but 
a  political  body.  But  it  is  also  the  organ  empowered 
by  the  Charter  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  entire  international 
community. We believe it should act responsibly and in 
a non-selective manner in dealing with each situation 
where the peace is threatened. For that reason, we agree 
with a group of countries that believe that the Council 
should  be  asked  to  refer  the  case  of  human  rights 
violations in Syria to the Court so that perpetrators can 
be brought to trial, regardless of who they are or who 
they  represent.  In  that  context,  we  understand  that  it 
would be advisable that the permanent members of the 
Council  consider  refraining  from  using  their  veto  to 
block Council action.
It is quite clear that according to article 115 (b) of 
the  Rome  Statute,  the  United  Nations  should  help  to 
pay expenses arising from cases that the Organization 
refers to the Court   through the Security Council so as 
to share the financial burden of international criminal 
justice.  On  that  basis,  we  expect  that,  in  accordance 
with article 13 of the Relationship Agreement between 
the  Court  and  the  United  Nations,  the  necessary 
arrangements will be made as soon as possible so that 
that cooperation can be implemented.
We  believe  that  the  existing  cooperation  between 
the Security Council and the Court should be deepened. 
That  means  that  there  has  to  be  some  mechanism  to 
follow up on cases referred by the Council to the Court.
Ms.  Paik  Ji-ah  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset my delegation would like to express its sincere 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his 
prominent leadership and for his comprehensive report 
on  the  current  activities  of  the  Court.  My  delegation 
also commends the joint efforts of the Chambers, the 
Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry, which have 
laid  solid  foundations  for  the  effective  functioning  of 
the Court. We also take this opportunity to welcome the 
solemn undertakings of the new Registrar and Deputy 
Prosecutor.
So  far, 
the  Court  has  demonstrated  notable 
achievements with its involvement in eight situations, 
in Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the 
Central  African  Republic,  Kenya,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the 
Sudan, Libya and Mali. We note that the caseload of the 
Chambers has increased significantly in the past year.
issued 
The  Trial  Chamber 
its  first  acquittal 
regarding  the  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo  last  December.  The  Pre-Trial  Chamber 
issued  very 
contrasting  decisions  on  Libya’s 
admissibility  challenges  on  two  cases.  We  expect 
that  when  the  screening  procedure  of  the  Appeals 
Chamber  is  completed,  those  two  examples  will 
contribute to the precise interpretation of the principle 
of complementarity and the related articles of the Rome 
Statute.
13-54081
11/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
Regarding the situation in Kenya, we wish to note 
that the case of Mr. Ruto and Mr. Sang is now at the 
ongoing  trial  stage  in  which  the  accused  are  present 
before the judges without any arrest. The recent decision 
on excusal from continuous presence of the accused at 
trial,  made  by  the  Appeals  Chamber  last  week,  will 
be a valuable precedent to help international criminal 
lawyers understand the legal logic of article 63 of the 
Statute.
The Office of the Prosecutor has devoted itself to 
undertaking its duties in spite of an increased workload 
in the past year. We wish to note with appreciation that 
there  has  been  progress  on  the  case  of  Mr.  Abdallah 
Banda Abakaer Nourain, despite the difficult situation 
in Darfur. We also expect that the Prosecutor will keep 
on  doing  her  best  in  the  prosecution  of  Mr.  Laurent 
Gbagbo of Côte d’Ivoire.
We  note  in  particular  that  the  Prosecutor  has 
succeeded  in  detaining  Mr.  Bosco  Ntaganda,  who  is 
the  first  indictee  subject  to  an  ICC  arrest  warrant  to 
surrender of his own will to the custody of the Court. My 
delegation would like to deliver our special appreciation 
to the countries contributing in transferring him to The 
Hague. We believe that the case effectively shows that 
the ICC has now firmly established itself and is widely 
respected as the core institution bringing justice in the 
most heinous crimes taking place throughout the world.
We  may  recall  that,  during  our  debate  on  the 
drafting of the Rome Statute in the twentieth century, 
not all of us shared the same view on the establishment 
of a permanent court to pursue international criminal 
justice.  However,  since  the  Statute’s  entry  into  force 
in  2002,  the  number  of  the  State  parties  has  steadily 
grown to 122. During the past year, Côte D’Ivoire has 
joined the members as a new State party to the Statute. 
The  steps  taken  have  moved  us  closer  to  universality 
and have simultaneously promoted the overall integrity 
of the ICC.
Despite  the  Court’s  remarkable  achievements  and 
constructive role in strengthening the tribunal system, 
there is still a lot more to do in order to accomplish its 
mandate. In addition, those goals cannot be completely 
achieved  by  the  efforts  of  the  ICC  alone.  It  is  also 
crucial  to  enhance  the  international  community’s 
ongoing endeavours in the pursuit of justice, the rule of 
law and sustainable peace.
We  cannot  overemphasize  that  it  is  absolutely 
vital  for  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC  to  further 
strengthen  their  relationship  by  building  upon  the 
existing agreement. Moreover, it is also critical for the 
Court  to  garner  ample  support  and  cooperation  from 
all States Members of the United Nations. For example, 
without their full cooperation the ICC cannot execute 
the  outstanding  arrest  warrants  for  perpetrators  of 
grave crimes, nor conduct thorough investigations for 
the appropriate prosecutions.
The International Criminal Court was established 
to  embody  the  principles  of  the  Rome  Statute  so  as 
to  end  impunity  and  contribute  to  the  prevention  of 
grave crimes, such as genocide, war crimes and crimes 
against humanity. To fulfil its mandate, the ICC must 
be  respected  as  a  non-political,  independent  judicial 
institution by all the stakeholders, as well as by States 
parties to the Rome Statues. That is how we can expect 
the ICC to continue to pursue criminal accountability 
against  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern, and thus to continue its positive contribution 
to  laying  a  solid  foundation  for  sustainable  peace  for 
the future.
My  delegation  strongly  believes  that  it  is  in  the 
interest of humanity as a whole to uphold the principle 
of the rule of law by promoting the functions and work 
of the ICC. The Republic of Korea will remain one of 
the strongest supporters of the Rome Statute and of the 
ICC, and will continue to work tirelessly to attain that 
common goal of the international community.
Mr. Salinas Burgos (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): At 
the outset, we would like to thank the President of the 
International  Criminal  Court,  the  Honourable  Judge 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  presenting  to  the  Assembly  the 
Court’s  comprehensive  report  covering  the  period 
from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 (see A/68/314). It 
describes, inter alia, the investigations currently under 
way  and  reflects  the  growth  in  the  Court’s  activities. 
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the  new 
Registrar and Deputy Prosecutor of the Court.
The important responsibilities of the International 
Criminal  Court  and  its  work  undoubtedly  merit  the 
attention  of  the  international  community.  For  Chile, 
the  Court  has  become  the  most  advanced  expression 
of  the  development  of  international  criminal  justice 
and  represents  one  of  the  most  relevant  initiatives  in 
that domain in recent times. From the viewpoint of the 
protection  of  human  rights,  the  establishment  of  the 
Court  is  clearly  a  major  advance  in  the  fight  against 
impunity,  and  a  clear  sign  that  its  States  parties  are 
12/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
committed,  with  the  international  community,  to 
travelling further on that path. Chile therefore strongly 
supports the work of the International Criminal Court.
At  the  previous  session,  the  Assembly  had  the 
opportunity to commemorate the tenth anniversary of 
the entry into force of the Rome Statute. As the Criminal 
Court  enters  its  second  decade,  it  should  continue  to 
consolidated as an independent international criminal 
tribunal until it acquires a universal character. In that 
connection, we welcome Côte D’Ivoire as a new State 
party  to  the  Rome  Statute,  becoming  the  122th  State 
party to the international treaty.
We are convinced that a close relationship between 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  United 
Nations,  through  the  latter’s  principal  organs  —  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council — is vital 
to the performance of the functions of this international 
criminal 
in 
strengthening the promotion of the rule of law, respect 
for  human  rights  and  the  fight  against  impunity,  and 
thus  in  achieving  international  peace  and  security  in 
accordance with international law and the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
Rome Statute.
tribunal.  In  sum, 
the  Court  assists 
We welcome the existing cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
which  is  reflected,  for  instance,  in  the  report  that 
the  President  of  the  Court  presented  to  the  Assembly 
and  in  the  reports  of  the  Prosecutor  to  the  Security 
Council on situations referred by the Council. Also, the 
Court’s New York Liaison Office is vital in promoting 
cooperation  and  representing  the  Court  at  various 
meetings, following developments that are relevant to 
it.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  that  the 
linkage  existing  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the International Criminal Court, and specifically the 
powers  of  the  Council  to  refer  situations  or  suspend 
investigations in accordance with articles 13 and 16 of 
the Rome Statute, must be based on consistent criteria 
that  demonstrate  that  the  decisions  are  not  arbitrary. 
As a new member of the Security Council, Chile will 
emphasize  that  point.  We  are  also  convinced  that  the 
Council must follow up on its referrals, in addition to 
supporting  its  decisions  by  setting  up  those  criteria, 
and without that involving interference in the Court’s 
activities.  In  addition,  with  regard  to  the  referrals, 
special attention must be paid to the refusal of States to 
cooperate with the Court.
Lastly, it would also be appropriate, whenever the 
Security Council makes a referral to the Court, for the 
General  Assembly  to  make  suitable  arrangements  to 
ensure the financial resources necessary for the Court 
to  deal  with  the  referral.  We  reiterate,  in  that  regard, 
that  it  is  important  for  the  Court,  in  carrying  out  its 
mandate,  to  have  the  necessary  material  and  human 
resources,  in  keeping  with  its  judicial  tasks  and  the 
lofty functions it must perform.
The principle of complementarity is the cornerstone 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  by  virtue  of  which  national 
tribunals have the primary responsibility to investigate, 
bring to trial and punish those guilty of the most serious 
crimes  of  international  concern,  as  established  in  the 
Rome  Statue.  The  International  Criminal  Court  must 
be called on to intervene only in those cases when the 
States  in  which  crimes  within  their  competence  have 
been committed are unable or unwilling to conduct the 
relevant legal proceedings.
In  that  connection,  we  believe  it  is  crucial  to  the 
work of the Court that the crimes specified under the 
Rome  Statute  should  be  so  characterized  in  domestic 
law.  It  is  also  vital  for  States  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court.  For  those  reasons,  my  country  has  made 
progress  on  legislation  to  that  effect,  in  accordance 
with the Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the 
General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National 
and  International  Levels,  adopted  on  24  September  a 
year ago (resolution 67/1).
We call on the States that have not yet done so to 
become parties to the Rome Statute in order to achieve 
its  universality.  We  also  call  on  the  States  parties  to 
adopt  the  Kampala  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
approved  in  2010.  My  country  is  working  towards 
achieving that goal.
Allow me to take the opportunity to again express 
our  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Court  for  the 
valuable  work  of  the  Court  under  his  presidency  and 
for the invaluable contribution it is making in the fight 
against impunity.
Mr. Zellweger (Switzerland) (spoke in French): All 
of us gathered here are guided by the same values and 
by  the  same  concern  that  justice  must  be  rendered  to 
victims and impunity for the most serious crimes must 
end.
The  20  years  that  have  elapsed  since  the  modern 
era  of  international  criminal  justice  began  provide 
13-54081
13/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
ample evidence that translating those values into reality 
is  difficult.  It  is  difficult  because  the  work  often  has 
to  be  carried  out  in  conflict  or  fragile  post-conflict 
situations,  because  it  is  part  of  the  much  greater 
challenge  of  establishing  or  restoring  the  rule  of  law, 
and because convicting the perpetrators of crimes is not 
enough to meet the essential needs of the victims. It is 
also difficult because we do not always agree on how 
we  should  accomplish  that  seemingly  unachievable 
task.
The diverging expectations regarding international 
criminal justice have been expressed more vigorously in 
recent times. Switzerland has been listening carefully, 
especially  to  the  concerns  that  have  been  expressed 
by  some  African  States.  Today  we  acknowledge  that 
that we could have done more to enter into a dialogue 
with those who shared their concerns with us. Today, 
however, we underline our readiness to openly discuss 
the  challenges  facing  both  the  States  parties  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Five  weeks  ago, 
at  the  initiative  of  Switzerland,  24  ministers  from 
all  regions  of  the  world  adopted  a  declaration  of 
commitment to the International Criminal Court. They 
affirmed  in  particular  their  readiness  to  engage  in 
dialogue  to  resolve  outstanding  issues  that  affect  the 
role  of  the  Court  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  That 
offer is earnest and sincere.
Switzerland is open for a constructive discussion on 
the functioning of the Rome Statute system, here, in the 
framework of bilateral exchanges and at the upcoming 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute, in The 
Hague.  The  dialogue  would  be  based  on  our  shared 
values, as mentioned.
The 122 States parties, including 34 from Africa, 
have  voluntarily  acceded  to  the  Rome  Statute  in  a 
common understanding. It is understood that the judicial 
independence  of  the  Court  and  the  irrelevance  of  the 
official position of the accused are absolutely essential 
for the credibility and proper functioning of the Court. 
States were willing to confer those rights on the Court 
because,  under  the  principle  of  complementarity, 
each  States  retains  the  sovereign  choice  to  conduct 
proceedings at the national level.
No genuine national proceedings are taking place 
in Syria despite all the serious crimes committed there. 
Switzerland  and  57  other  States  have  written  to  the 
Security Council, calling for a referral to the ICC. In 
the aftermath of the use of chemical weapons in Syria, 
such a measure is all the more necessary. We therefore 
reiterate our call to States from all regions of the world 
to join us in demanding accountability in Syria. While 
there is currently no consensus for a referral, the issue 
of  accountability  will  not  go  away.  It  is  essential  to 
deal  with  this  question  without  reservations  in  the 
framework  of  the  upcoming  Geneva  talks  on  Syria  if 
that country is ever to achieve sustainable peace.
Turning  now  to  the  relationship  between  the  ICC 
and  the  United  Nations,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
publication  of  the  revised  guidelines  on  contacts 
between United Nations personnel and persons who are 
the subject of an arrest warrant or summonses issued 
by the Court. We encourage the Secretariat to strictly 
implement the guidelines and to continue the positive 
practice  of  informing  the  President  of  the  Assembly 
of  States  Parties  and  the  ICC  Prosecutor  of  relevant 
contacts.
There cannot be a strong ICC without the support 
of the United Nations and the support the entire staff 
of the ICC, which enables the Court to handle its ever-
growing caseload. We take this opportunity to express 
our gratitude for their hard work. It is our sincere hope 
that we will keep working together to make a reality of 
our shared values, to render justice to the victims, and 
put an end to impunity for the most serious crimes.
Mr.  Van  Oosterom  (Netherlands):  Representing 
the  host  country  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) and as the facilitator of last year’s resolution on 
the report of the Court (resolution 67/295), I would like 
to thank the President of the Court, Judge Sang-Hyun 
Song, for presenting to the General Assembly the ninth 
annual report of the International Criminal Court (see 
A/68/314) and for his personal efforts to safeguard the 
integrity  and  independence  of  the  Court.  This  annual 
report  to  the  United  Nations  and  this  very  debate  we 
are having today in the General Assembly highlight the 
important role the Court plays in our common efforts to 
build an international community that is characterized 
by the rule of law and the respect for human rights, an 
international community in which there is no place for 
impunity.
As we have seen time and again, sustainable peace 
and security cannot be achieved if the perpetrators of 
the most serious crimes are not brought to justice. To 
ensure  the  Court’s  success  in  fighting  impunity  for 
the  most  heinous  crimes  of  international  concern,  we 
as an international community must all work together. 
14/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
All  States  have  a  duty  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
those  suspected  of  such  crimes,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.
Universal  adherence  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court therefore remains crucial. 
My  country,  like  many  others,  is  pleased  to  welcome 
Côte  d’Ivoire’s  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
bringing  the  total  number  of  States  that  have  ratified 
or acceded to it to 122. It is our sincere hope that many 
more  countries  will  join  in  the  near  future.  We  also 
call on all States parties to swiftly ratify the Kampala 
amendments on the crime of aggression.
As  representative  bodies  of 
The cooperation and assistance provided by States 
parties, non-States parties, the United Nations and other 
international  and  regional  organizations  is  important 
for the Court to function well. That is especially true 
with regard to the arrest and surrender of suspects, the 
provision of evidence, the protection and relocation of 
victims and witnesses and the enforcement of sentences.
international 
community,  the  United  Nations  and  its  Security 
Council  have  an  especially  important  role  to  play  in 
supporting  the  work  of  the  Court.  In  that  regard,  the 
Netherlands  welcomes  the  constructive  and  increased 
cooperation  between  the  Council  and  the  Court  over 
the  past  decade.  The  Security  Council  in  particular 
has  a  responsibility  to  provide  political  and  financial 
support with respect to the situations that it refers to the 
Court. The Netherlands therefore calls on the Council 
to remain actively engaged in the situations it refers to 
the Court.
the 
The  Netherlands  is  also  in  favour  of  referring 
the  situation  in  Syria  to  the  ICC,  and  we  regret  the 
continuing  disagreement  on  that  issue  within  the 
Security  Council.  A  great  number  of  Member  States 
signed a letter urging the Security Council to take on its 
responsibility  in  this  matter  (A/67/694,  annex).  Since 
then, a chemical weapons attack against civilians has 
taken place in Syria. The crimes committed cannot and 
must not go unpunished. We remain convinced that a 
referral is appropriate in the absence of alternatives.
to 
African  States 
contributed  greatly 
the 
establishment of the Rome Statute, and their continuing 
support for the ICC remains important. It is crucial that 
the concerns regarding the ICC voiced at the most recent 
African Union Summit be addressed at the upcoming 
Assembly of States Parties through open, constructive 
dialogue.
just 
In  The  Hague 
last  month,  my  country 
organized a retreat to which all ICC States parties were 
invited.  The  main  topic  of  discussion  was  improving 
the relationship between the ICC and several countries 
from the African region in order to promote and sustain 
dialogue among all States parties. Such dialogue should 
address  all  valid  concerns,  including  those  of  the 
victims and their communities.
The Trust Fund for Victims is increasingly important 
in supporting both communities and individual victims 
of international crimes, including children and victims 
of  sexual  violence.  We  call  on  all  States  to  continue 
their voluntary contributions to that important tool for 
compensation in the future.
Both  the  Court’s  workload  and  the  expectations 
it  must  meet  are  high.  This  year,  the  Court  has  made 
important  institutional  progress.  Steps  must  be  taken 
to further enhance the efficiency of the Court, both by 
the Court and by its States parties. As the focal point 
of  the  study  group  on  governance,  we  will  present 
several  concrete,  constructive  suggestions  during  the 
upcoming Assembly of States Parties.
It is important to stress here that fighting impunity 
for  the  crimes  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity 
and war crimes is a responsibility shared by all States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  not  just  the  States 
parties  to  the  ICC.  Only  if  States  are  not  willing  or 
able  to  fulfil  their  obligations  themselves  do  we  look 
to the Court to step in. That has been the case, either 
through  referral  or  self-referral,  in  the  situations  the 
Court  currently  has  under  investigation.  We  must 
therefore  strengthen  the  principle  of  complementarity 
and enhance States’ domestic capacities to investigate 
and prosecute the most serious crimes of international 
concern. That would strengthen complementarity.
Together  with  Argentina,  Belgium  and  Slovenia, 
the  Netherlands  and  an  ever-increasing  number  of 
like-minded States are advocating negotiations with all 
Member States on a multilateral treaty to fill the gaps 
in  the  international  legal  framework  for  extradition 
and mutual legal assistance for the crime of genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  We  invite 
all those present here today to join us in these efforts 
to  promote  inter-State  cooperation  in  the  domestic 
investigation and prosecution of those crimes.
At the end of the day, the ICC remains the leading 
international  institution  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
for the gravest crimes. The report presented here today 
13-54081
15/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
by  President  Song  shows  that  the  Court  is  working 
very hard to meet the international community’s high 
expectations of it in regard to delivering justice — not 
in the last place — to the myriad victims of these crimes 
around the world. We commend the Court for its efforts 
in  improving  efficiency  and  enhancing  investigative 
capacities.
We  cannot  and  must  not  underestimate 
For  the  Court  to  continue  to  bring  justice  to  the 
victims  of  the  most  heinous  of  crimes  worldwide,  we 
cannot stress enough the importance of its independent 
judicial  role.  We  as  States  have  a  responsibility  to 
support it and keep it free from political considerations.
the 
positive  impact  the  Court  has  had  in  the  first  decade 
of  its  existence.  It  has  contributed  greatly  to  the 
fight  against  impunity,  making  our  time  the  age  of 
accountability.  As  my  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Franciscus  Timmermans,  said  last  year  at  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  ICC  in  The  Hague,  in  the  Hall  of 
Knights,  prevention,  protection  and  prosecution  are 
closely linked. If the ICC truly fulfils its mission, its 
efforts will and do contribute to the prevention of the 
most  heinous  crimes,  leading  to  additional  protection 
of civilians. It is up to all of us here to ensure that the 
ICC can continue to fulfil its mission.
Mr.  Naanda  (Namibia):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  latest  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) submitted to the General Assembly (see A/68/314). 
We wish to welcome the President of the Court, Judge 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  and  to  thank  him  for  presenting  an 
in-depth  briefing  on  the  latest  engagements  of  the 
Court.
in 
The  establishment  of  the  Court  signified  the 
foundation  of  the  principal  forum  for  international 
criminal  justice.  As  the  number  of  States  parties 
continues  to  increase,  we  are  making  good  progress 
in  realizing  the  full  implementation  of  and  universal 
participation 
the  Rome  Statute.  We  welcome 
the  recent  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  the 
Government of Côte d’Ivoire, bringing the total number 
of African States parties to 35 and the total number of 
States parties to 122. That is a significant achievement.
Our debate on the report of the ICC demonstrates 
the  role  of  the  Court  in  our  common  efforts  to  build 
an  international  community  characterized  by  the  rule 
of  law,  respect  for  human  rights  and  a  commitment 
to global peace and security. My delegation reaffirms 
that for sustainable peace to be achieved, there can be 
no  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  heinous 
crimes.  Therefore,  the  ICC’s  complementary  role 
in  deterring  and  prosecuting  such  crimes  cannot  be 
overstated.  The  Court  is  intended  to  be  a  court  of 
last  resort  in  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  over  crimes 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  States  parties 
have  the  primary  responsibility  to  facilitate  the  legal 
and technical capacity of their domestic institutions to 
investigate and adjudicate international crimes without 
reference to the International Criminal Court.
We  welcome 
the  Court’s  efforts 
to  promote 
the  adoption  of  implementing  legislation  and  the 
review  of  domestic  laws  to  facilitate  different  forms 
of  cooperation  with  the  Court  when  it  exercises 
complementary jurisdiction in respect of international 
crimes.  An  increase  in  the  availability  of  domestic 
avenues for the prosecution of international crimes will 
not only reduce the number of cases coming before the 
Court, but will immensely contribute to the suppression 
of  international  crimes,  as  mandated  by  the  Rome 
Statute.  States  parties  are  therefore  reminded  of  their 
responsibilities  to  investigate  and  try  international 
crimes in their domestic jurisdictions.
The  cooperation  of  States  parties  with  the  Court 
is  critical  to  the  Court’s  effectiveness  and  credibility. 
Article 86 of the Rome Statute imposes an obligation 
on States parties to cooperate fully with the Court in 
its investigation and prosecution of crimes within the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  The  extent  to  which  States 
cooperate  with  the  Court,  as  envisaged  in  article  86 
and other forms of cooperation set out in part 9 of the 
Statute,  depends  on  the  manner  in  which  the  Court 
came  to  assume  the  jurisdiction  in  a  situation  in 
question.  Where  referrals  have  been  made  by  States 
parties,  cooperation  from  such  States  has  invariably 
been forthcoming. That has largely been demonstrated 
in  the  cooperation  of  States  such  as  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic, 
Uganda and Kenya, which resulted in the surrender of 
suspects to the Court.
However,  with  regard  to  referrals  by  the  Security 
Council, State cooperation in effecting arrests mandated 
by the Court pursuant to such referrals has largely not 
been forthcoming. The non-cooperation of some States 
has  been  informed  by  different  considerations  about 
the relative balance between the pursuit of justice and 
peacemaking  efforts  in  conflict  situations.  In  both 
the  Darfur  and  Libya  situations,  indictments  were 
issued without adequate regard for the impact of such 
16/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
indictments on the prospects of ending the conflicts in 
those countries. The referral of situations to the ICC by 
the Security Council has proved to be highly political 
and controversial, and those situations enjoy the lowest 
degree of State cooperation in the enforcement of court 
orders.
The  history  of  the  ICC’s  creation  and  the  active 
involvement  of  African  States  demonstrate  that  the 
Court was created for the benefit of victims of serious 
crimes around the world, in particular those in Africa. 
It is therefore not surprising that African States parties 
constitute  the  biggest  bloc  in  the  membership  of  the 
Court, which is a clear demonstration of the continent’s 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Court.  It  is  therefore 
important  to  note  that  the  African  Union  (AU)  has 
raised concerns with regard to the indictments of sitting 
Heads of States, which led to several AU decisions on 
the matter. We therefore underline the need for greater 
understanding of the concerns raised by the AU, as they 
are genuine concerns that may impact on the prospects 
of peace and security on the continent.
Mrs.  Byaje  (Rwanda):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President,  for  allowing  me  to  present  the  views  of 
Rwanda  on  this  important  topic.  Rwanda  values  this 
meeting, in which we are afforded the opportunity to 
consider whether the international criminal system in 
place has met the expectation of ensuring accountability.
With  regard  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Rwanda  shares  the  views  expressed  by  the 
Extraordinary  Summit  of  the  African  Union  held  in 
Addis Ababa on 12 October.
The  rule  of  law  is  strengthened  if  there  are  no 
exceptions  or  double  standards  in  the  application  of 
justice,  including  international  justice.  The  ICC  was 
meant  to  act  independently  of  political  interference. 
Unfortunately,  its  activities  have  not  always  lived  up 
to  that  expectation.  The  ICC  has  been  selective  in  its 
methods of investigating and prosecuting perpetrators 
of  serious  international  crimes  in  that  it  has  so  far 
failed  to  accept  the  glaring  truth  that  similar  crimes 
have been committed with impunity in different parts 
of the world. It is evident that political bias and control 
and  a  flawed  methodology  are  being  deployed  in  the 
name of international justice. Yet the ICC proponents 
are ostensibly deaf to the increasingly vocal criticism 
against the Court’s bias regarding Africa.
With regard to the principle of complementarity, we 
are of the view that the ICC should be seen as a court 
of last resort. It should intervene only when concerned 
national  courts  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  try  cases 
committed on their own territory.
Rwanda is of the view that the Republic of Kenya 
is able and willing to prosecute all cases related to the 
2007 post-election violence, including the cases of its 
President and Deputy President. Rwanda expresses the 
concern  that  the  trial  of  Kenyan  leaders  outside  their 
country  would  undermine  the  sovereignty,  stability 
and  peace  in  that  country  and  in  all  neighbouring 
States, as well as the reconciliation and reconstruction 
process  and  the  normal  functioning  of  constitutional 
institutions.  Furthermore,  Rwanda  would 
to 
underline  the  principles  deriving  from  national  laws 
and  customary  international  law  that  Heads  of  States 
and other States’ senior officials are granted immunity 
during their tenure of office. The immunity of sitting 
Heads of States was also recognized by the International 
Court of Justice.
like 
Rwanda  believes  in  justice  and  in  international 
justice. But my country is of the view that the search for 
justice should be pursued in a way that does not impede 
or jeopardize efforts aimed at promoting lasting peace. 
That  is  why,  in  the  aftermath  of  the  1994  genocide 
against  the  Tutsis  in  Rwanda,  Rwanda  put  in  place  a 
restorative justice through gacaca courts, which at the 
same time allowed for truth, justice and reconciliation. 
The  result  is  that,  despite  the  genocide  that  took  the 
lives  of  more  than  1  million  people  19  years  ago, 
the  social  fabric  has  been  rebuilt  and  Rwandans  live 
together peacefully.
In conclusion, let me point out that one can rightly 
say  that  international  criminal  justice  is  experiencing 
a credibility crisis. Hence the need to review what we 
have achieved over the past decades and to chart a way 
forward.  The  key  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  notably  the  sovereign  equality 
of States, require that all peoples of the United Nations 
family — mighty or weak, rich or poor, white, yellow 
or black, man or woman — be treated equally. We do 
not  want  that  noble  principle  to  be  deformed  into  a 
process in which the mighty must sit in judgement of 
the weaker, even when the mighty is guilty of a crime 
against a weaker counterpart.
Mr. Mukongo Ngay (Democratic Republic of the 
Congo) (spoke in French): Мy delegation has taken note 
of the ninth annual report of the International Criminal 
Court to the United Nations (see A/68/314), as presented 
13-54081
17/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
by the President of the Court, Judge Song. The Court’s 
workload continues to increase, with eight cases under 
investigation  and  eight  situations  under  preliminary 
examination, and two cases have moved to the appeals 
stage.
It  is  important  to  recall  that  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic Republic of Congo was voluntarily referred 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court  by  the  country’s 
authorities,  who  acted  on  behalf  of  the  wounded 
population of a post-conflict country where what some 
rightly called “the first African world war” had taken 
place.  The  International  Criminal  Court  was  created 
precisely  to  take  charge  in  that  type  of  situation. 
Therefore,  the  creation  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  is 
a  matter  of  mere  theory  for  some,  remains  a  tangible 
reality that the Congolese people, particularly those in 
the eastern part of the country, experience daily.
In that regard, it should be noted that the Mouvement 
du 23 mars (M-23), a band of negative forces bankrolled 
by foreign interests, was created to prevent the arrest 
of  Mr.  Bosco  Ntaganda,  who  is  responsible  for  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  —  massacres, 
assassinations, 
so 
on  —  that  earned  him  an  arrest  warrant  from  the 
International Criminal Court. The rest is well known. 
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  remains  firm 
and has paid a heavy price in that difficult fight against 
impunity.
recruitment,  and 
rape,  child 
In the same vein, the recent discovery of two mass 
graves in Kibumba, in the eastern part of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, where it is clear that the negative 
forces  of  the  М-23  executed  their  victims,  including 
children,  should  lead  swiftly  to  an  investigation  by 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Furthermore,  the 
leaders of that terrorist movement, who have long been 
on  the  updated  lists  of  persons  targeted  for  sanctions 
by  the  United  Nations,  the  European  Union  and  the 
American Government, although they are protected by 
neighbouring countries where they have found refuge, 
must know that there will be no impunity. They must 
answer for their acts before the Court. We call on the 
countries harbouring them to cooperate in their arrest 
and transfer to the competent legal authorities.
Wars and all forms of violence that deny the dignity 
and sanctity of human beings do not have a nationality. 
That  reality,  which  some  want  to  limit  only  to  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  order  to  evade 
their  obligations  and  responsibilities,  is  intolerable 
and  unacceptable.  It  affects  us  all,  and  cooperation 
with the International Criminal Court should form the 
foundation of that concern.
In  terms  of  cooperation,  we  always  say  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo was the first State 
party  to  develop  significant  cooperation  with  the 
International Criminal Court. My country’s cooperation 
with  the  Court  serves  as  a  model,  and  several  legal 
instruments attest to that. The Democratic Republic of 
the Congo did not wait for the entry into force of the 
Rome Statute to ratify it. It ratified it on 30 March 2002, 
more than three months before its entry into force.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  took  the 
initiative  to  refer  its  situation  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court  itself  on  3  March  2004,  and  signed 
a  judicial  cooperation  agreement  with  the  Court  on 
6  October  2004.  It  also  signed  a  judicial  assistance 
agreement  with 
the  United  Nations  Organization 
Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
with  the  International  Criminal  Court.  In  connection 
with  the  proceedings  before  the  Court,  on  three 
occasions  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
properly executed arrest warrants issued by the Court 
with regard to its nationals.
As  can  be  seen,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  is  convinced  that  peace  and  justice  are 
complementary.  It  has  experienced  the  irreplaceable 
role  of  justice  as  a  factor  of  social  harmony,  national 
reconciliation, peace, security and stability.
The  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court to the United Nations, which is now before the 
Assembly,  underscores  the  growing  importance  of 
the work of the Court and of the Rome Statute on the 
international scene. It reports very significant progress 
in  the  work  of  the  Court,  with  the  start  of  trials  in 
certain cases, the confirmation of charges in others and 
the opening of new investigations in still others.
The progress in the work of international criminal 
justice  occurs  in  the  context  of  the  major  challenges 
the Court faces, the most important of which remains 
non-cooperation.  In  that  regard,  the  reality  of  change 
in  the  perception  of  the  Court,  even  by  some  States 
that had previously shown great support for it, should 
be recognized. A sense of injustice and the perception 
of  unfairness  is  slowly  taking  root  in  the  minds  of 
some  Africans  who  believe  that  international  justice 
has  become  a  sort  of  tool  for  applying  pressure  on 
African  leaders.  It  is  essential  that  the  Court  put  in 
18/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
place mechanisms that can curb that perception, which 
threatens  to  undermine  the  Court’s  reputation  and 
jeopardize  its  success,  even  though  more  than  half 
of  the  States  Members  of  the  universal  Organization 
joined the Court less than five years after its entry into 
force.
But it is equally important that the Court focus on 
its own operations, reflect on its working methods and 
become  more  professional  and  less  political.  Politics 
and justice do not necessarily make a good combination.
To  restore  the  climate  of  trust  between  the  Court 
and  the  African  Union,  which  is  still  deteriorating, 
some solutions are needed. First, the dialogue already 
under  way  between 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  must  be  strengthened 
in  order  to  revive  State  cooperation.  Secondly,  the 
principle of complementarity in African countries must 
be  implemented,  while  acknowledging  that  it  is  first 
up to each State to investigate and prosecute the most 
serious  crimes  of  international  significance.  Thirdly, 
we must make the best use possible of the initiative to 
expand  the  mandate  of  the  African  Court  on  Human 
and Peoples’ Rights to include the legal jurisdiction to 
rule on international crimes.
the  African  Union  and 
In order to close this chapter, my delegation would 
like  to  welcome  Côte  d’Ivoire’s  recent  entry  into  the 
club  of  States  parties  to  the  Statute,  bringing  the 
number of States parties to 122.
The Review Conference of the Rome Statute, held 
in  Kampala  in  May  and  June  2010,  was  a  valuable 
opportunity  for  Member  States  to  acknowledge  the 
achievements  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  reinforce  the 
belief that the International Criminal Court is a gift of 
hope for future generations and a very important step 
towards the respect of human rights and the rule of law.
In  the  Kampala  Declaration,  States  reaffirmed 
their  will  to  promote  the  Rome  Statute  and  its  full 
implementation, as well as its universality, the record 
of  international  criminal  justice  and  the  amendment 
of  the  Rome  Statute  that  now  defines  the  crime  of 
aggression and the conditions under which the Court has 
jurisdiction over that crime. Those are all achievements 
that we must carefully protect.
In  conclusion,  and  reiterating  my  delegation’s 
determination  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  Court’s 
Statute,  I  would  like  to  once  again  urge  States  that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  join  the  mechanism  of  the 
International Criminal Court, so that together we can 
contribute  to  the  universalization  of  the  fight  against 
impunity.
Mr. Ishikawa (Japan): At the outset, I would like 
to thank President Sang-Hyun Song for presenting the 
comprehensive report on the work of the International 
Criminal  Court  (see  A/68/314).  As  my  delegation  has 
said on many occasions, Japan attaches great importance 
to the central role of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC) in enhancing the rule of law at the national and 
international levels.
It  need  be  said  only  once  that  the  ICC  plays  a 
key  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  through  the  achievement  of  justice 
and  the  prevention  of  grave  crimes  and  violations  of 
international humanitarian and human rights law.
The  ICC  enjoys  high  credibility  throughout  the 
world.  One  hundred  and  twenty-two  States  are  now 
party to the Rome Statute. Japan would like to extend 
a  warm  welcome  to  Côte  d’Ivoire  on  its  joining  the 
States  parties  to  the  Statute  in  February  2013.  As  a 
leading  supporter  of  the  Court  in  the  Asia-Pacific 
region, which as of now is the most underrepresented 
region in the Assembly of States Parties, Japan renews 
its  commitment  to  continuing  to  encourage  our  Asia-
Pacific friends that have not yet done so to ratify or to 
accede  to  the  Statute  by  providing  assistance  for  the 
development of legal systems and human resources.
We  all  know  that  the  Court  has  been  playing  a 
remarkable role in putting an end to impunity against 
the  most  serious  crimes,  such  as  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  However,  it  must 
also be acknowledged that the Court cannot achieve its 
purpose  alone.  In  that  regard,  allow  me  to  commend 
the  tireless  efforts  of  Ambassador  Tiina  Intelmann, 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute,  in  addressing  the  non-cooperation  issue  by 
listening carefully to the concerns of the relevant States 
parties. The difficulties that we now face in that context 
must be overcome in order to advance the cause of the 
rule of law.
As  the  focal  point  on  non-cooperation  for  the 
Asia-Pacific  Group  in  the  Bureau,  Japan  continues 
to  underline  the  importance  of  cooperating  with  the 
Court in terms of the execution of the mandate under 
the  Rome  Statute.  Mutual  cooperation  between  the 
ICC  and  the  United  Nations  is  also  crucial.  That  is 
particularly  relevant  with  regard  to  the  cases  referred 
13-54081
19/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
by  the  Security  Council.  Cooperation  strengthens  the 
Court’s  credibility  by  meeting  the  expectations  of 
victims and the international community.
It  cannot  be  overemphasized  that  the  key  priority 
of  international  criminal  justice  is  to  serve  those 
people who have suffered most from grave crimes and 
to ensure that such victims and affected communities 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  are  supported.  In 
that regard, Japan commends the praiseworthy work of 
the Trust Fund for Victims of the ICC for the benefit of 
victims and their families under the leadership of the 
Chair of the Board of Directors of the Fund, Mr. Motoo 
Noguchi.
In  conclusion,  Japan  remains  deeply  committed 
to  providing  the  ICC  its  unwavering  support,  to 
fostering  an  ICC  that  will  be  even  more  efficient, 
effective,  universal  and  systemically  sustainable  and 
to  contributing  to  our  common  goal  of  ensuring  that 
the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  are  held 
accountable.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We have carefully examined the most recent 
report of the International Criminal Court (see A/68/314), 
and thank the President of the Court for having prepared 
it. Our country is committed to combating impunity for 
the most serious violations of international law that are 
of  concern  to  the  entire  international  community.  In 
that context, we attach great importance to the work of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC).
As the report of the Court notes, some difficulties 
remain regarding its functioning, the key issue being the 
failure of States to execute arrest warrants. In the view 
of the ICC leadership, the main negative factor in that 
regard  arises  from  the  low  level  of  State  cooperation 
with the Court. We believe that it is not only an issue 
of  States  and  their  unwillingness  to  cooperate  with 
the Court. The problems are more systemic, their root 
causes are primarily to be found in the Rome Statute, 
which,  unfortunately,  is  not  an  agreed  instrument.  It 
concerns the inadequate reflection of the powers of the 
Security Council in that document and the difficulties 
in interpreting the provisions of the Statute with regard 
to the immunities of State leaders. As a result, in our 
view, not without reason the Court often blames regional 
shortcomings  without  taking  into  account  a  country’s 
particularities. The concerns recently expressed by the 
States of the African Union affirm that observation.
In the context of the ICC, there remains a significant 
issue regarding the inclusion of the crime of aggression 
in its Statute. We believe that the Kampala amendments 
do  not  fully  take  into  account  the  Security  Council’s 
powers  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
believe  it  to  be  extremely  undesirable  that  the  Court 
have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression without 
an  appropriate  definition  by  the  members  of  the 
Security  Council.  There  are  some  issues  concerning 
the implementation of the Kampala amendments on the 
crime  of  aggression.  Such  issues  could,  in  our  view, 
jeopardize the Court’s future work.
We  hope  that  the  ICC  will  continue  to  work  to 
overcome  the  challenges  that  it  faces  and  that  it  can 
fully and effectively implement its mandate. Ultimately, 
the  Court’s  response  to  such  issues  will  determine 
its  future  effectiveness  as  the  universal  body  as  the 
principal international court of law.
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): Costa 
Rica  thanks  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  presenting 
the  most  recent  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (see  A/68/314)  in  accordance  with  article  6  of 
the Relationship Agreement between the International 
Criminal Court and the United Nations. We particularly 
underscore its clear and detailed account of the situation 
concerning the most significant judicial and procedural 
developments  facing  the  Court.  We  would  like  to 
welcome Judge James Stewart as the Deputy Prosecutor 
and the election of Herman von Hebel as Registrar of 
the Court.
Costa Rica views with satisfaction the increase in 
the number of States parties to the Rome Statute. We 
welcome its ratification by Côte d’Ivoire in February, 
which raised the number of States parties to 122. My 
country  is  committed  to  continuing  to  work  for  the 
universality  and  integrity  of  the  Statute  and  for  the 
entry  into  force  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  all 
crimes covered by the Statute. In that regard, we wish 
to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  work  carried  out  by 
the delegation of Romania in the working group on the 
universality of the Rome Statute and to commend the 
praiseworthy efforts of the delegation of Liechtenstein 
towards the ratification of the amendment on the crime 
of aggression.
resolution  on 
the 
The 
the 
amendments to the Rome Statute adopted in Kampala 
in 2010 was adopted in the Foreign Affairs Committee 
of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica in August. 
ratification  of 
20/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
Approval  in  the  plenary  remains  pending.  We  hope 
that it will take place in the coming months. Moreover, 
my  country  ratified  the  Agreement  on  Privileges  and 
Immunities of the International Criminal Court in 2011.
We also welcome the fact that the working group 
on the independent oversight mechanism, facilitated by 
Costa Rica in The Hague, was able to be agreed. That 
will enable that subsidiary body to begin its monitoring 
tasks in accordance with the provisions of article 112 of 
the Rome Statute.
The repeated failure of some States parties not to 
comply  with  the  clear  and  binding  obligations  under 
the Rome Statute are of great concern to us. Especially 
serious is the non-compliance manifested by the refusal 
to execute outstanding arrest warrants.
It must be kept in mind that the Court’s cases, as 
President Song recalled today, involve the most serious 
crimes against humanity, the victims of which are real 
people, not legal abstractions; they deserve to have the 
alleged perpetrators held accountable for their actions. 
As  history  has  shown,  there  can  be  no  lasting  peace 
without justice.
Another  issue  that  deserves  full  attention  is  the 
Court’s financial situation. Despite the clearly difficult 
global  economic  situation,  budgetary  constraints 
must not be allowed to threaten the functioning of the 
Court, or worse, its independence. The Court’s activity 
has  grown  substantially  owing  to  grave  violations  of 
human rights and dignity and greater acknowledgment 
of  its  jurisdiction.  The  Court’s  docket  includes  eight 
investigations, eight preliminary examinations and 23 
arrest warrants in relation to eight situations. More than 
5,000 victims are participating in its proceedings. All of 
this is reflected in its operating costs and programmes.
For  the  coming  year,  the  Court  has  conducted  an 
exercise  aimed  at  analysing  costs  and  the  efficient 
use  of  resources  and  has  established  a  reasonable 
and  transparent  budget.  Costa  Rica  does  not  support 
initiatives  that  seek  to  limit  the  Court’s  scope  or 
capacity. That is why we will not support any proposal 
aimed  at  a  zero-growth  budget  or  the  inclusion  of  a 
new item that relates to the rental costs of the Court’s 
headquarters. We thank the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
for  its  offer  to  cover  50  per  cent  of  the  rental  of  the 
Court’s  temporary  headquarters.  However,  a  balance 
of  €3  million  remains,  and  my  delegation  believes  it 
should be considered under the Court’s next operational 
budget.
The  driving  force  of  the  Court  must  remain  the 
pursuit of justice, ending impunity for the worst crimes 
and  ensuring  care  for  victims,  without  neglecting  its 
outreach  and  information  activities.  The  quantity  and 
quality  of  those  functions  of  the  Court  should  not  be 
influenced by financial issues.
Given  the  new  and  timely  challenges  facing 
the  Court,  we  echo  the  words  of  President  Song  in 
affirming  our  view  that  the  only  matters  that  can 
and  should  be  addressed  are  requests  from  States  or 
parties involving proceedings that are fully compatible 
with the legal framework of the Rome Statute and the 
judicial  powers  of  its  bodies.  The  legal  legitimacy  of 
the  Court  represents  its  greatest  value,  and  all  States 
have the duty to respect and protect it.
In conclusion, Costa Rica will continue to support 
the  universalization,  independence  and  legitimacy  of 
the Court, so that we, together with other States parties, 
can “guarantee lasting respect for and the enforcement 
of international justice”, as set forth in the preamble of 
the Rome Statute.
Mr. Osman (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): My delegation 
acknowledges  the  report  (see  A/68/314)  before  the 
Assembly  today.  We  believe  that  the  purpose  of  this 
international  Organization  is  to  actively  promote  the 
values of international peace and security and respect 
for  human  rights,  based  on  the  noble  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which 
emphasizes the important principles of equality among 
States  and  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs. 
Our high hopes for the Organization and its principles 
are,  however,  being  threatened  and  undermined  by 
the conduct of certain countries in their dealings with 
other  States  based  on  a  colonial  perspective  and  an 
interpretation  of  the  Charter  in  a  way  that  suits  their 
agenda  and  interests  and  that  reflects  negatively  on 
international relations.
As we review today’s report, it must be acknowledged 
that the current practices of the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  and  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  clearly 
show  a  distortion,  from  a  political  point  of  view,  in 
the role played by the Court since its inception. In that 
framework,  we  would  recall  the  various  reservations 
expressed with respect to the Rome Statute regarding 
the role of the Prosecutor.
Ending  impunity  remains  a  goal  of  justice  that  is 
agreed upon by all and is first, foremost and directly the 
responsibility  of  the  national  jurisdiction  concerned. 
13-54081
21/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
The relationship between the Security Council and the 
ICC has been rejected by numerous countries because 
it has consecrated the influence of a political body over 
a judicial body. That opinion was reflected by several 
countries participating in the 1998 Conference in Rome.
My  country  rejects  the  politicization  of  justice, 
and  consequently  considers  the  relationship  between 
the Security Council and the ICC to be wholly invalid. 
That  was  shown  in  the  adoption  of  resolution  1593 
(2005), under which the Security Council referred the 
situation in Darfur to the ICC — a resolution that was 
not adopted unanimously.
Last  year  during  the  discussion  on  this  item,  my 
delegation  warned  that  the  United  Nations  could 
become the secretariat of the Office of the Prosecutor. 
We stated that rights given to the ICC in the Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations 
were groundless and without legal effect.
The  report  indicates  the  missions  that  have  been 
entrusted  to  United  Nations  officials  and  how  they 
should deal with the ICC. That reinforces our comments 
and  endangers  the  impartiality  and  the  responsible 
work  of  United  Nations  officials,  as  today  the  Court 
is defining the activities and communications of those 
United Nations officials.
The  current  international  reality,  especially  on 
the African continent, has clearly proved that the ICC 
has politicized the concept of justice. That is why the 
stance  of  the  ICC  has  been  increasingly  rejected  on 
the  African  continent.  It  all  started  when  the  African 
Union  requested  that  the  Security  Council  defer  the 
case against the Sudanese President, and recently, that 
it  defer  the  prosecution  against  the  Kenyan  President 
as well. At that Extraordinary Summit of the African 
Union,  leaders  also  strongly  condemned  the  fact  that 
the  Court  had  been  targeting  African  leaders,  and 
it  issued  a  decision  that  no  sitting  African  President 
should appear before any foreign court.
We would also like to add that numerous African 
leaders  and  heads  of  delegations,  some  of  whose 
countries are States parties to the Rome Statute, have 
expressed their concerns as to what is happening on the 
African  continent  and  the  negative  effect  it  will  have 
on peace and security in Africa. They expressed those 
concerns  when  discussing  the  issue  during  the  high-
level meetings at the sixty-eighth session of the General 
Assembly in September. Today, as I am addressing the 
Assembly,  a  meeting  is  being  held  here  in  New  York 
by members of the African Union, a few metres away. 
At the meeting, five Ministers for Foreign Affairs from 
African countries, having been delegated by the African 
Group,  are  meeting  with  Security  Council  members 
to  express  the  position  that  I  just  now  explained, 
namely, that the International Criminal Court has been 
targeting the African continent and African Presidents. 
The ministers are asking the Security Council to defer 
all  cases  previously  referred  to  the  Court.  The  Sudan 
would like to join those ministers in condemning what 
has  been  taking  place  in  regard  to  the  ICC’s  stance 
towards African leaders.
Finally,  we  are  all  aware  of  the  selectiveness  and 
double standards that the ICC implements. The ICC has 
often  overlooked  heinous  crimes  that  have  occurred 
and  that  continue  to  occur  in  several  regions  outside 
Africa,  such  as  those  still  being  committed  against 
the  Palestinian  people.  Where  is  international  justice 
there? Where is the ICC? Where are those who claim 
to  support  the  ICC  and  the  Security  Council?  The 
Palestinian people are being killed, and their rights are 
being violated on a daily basis.
In conclusion, in the light of the negative practices 
of  the  ICC  since  its  inception,  the  Sudan  today  calls 
on  States  to  reconsider  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court, as noted in today’s report, in order to 
ensure the sovereignty and independence of the United 
Nations from that new institution, which has, so far, not 
acquired global or universal acceptance.
justice 
institutions 
in  promoting 
Mr.  Huang  Huikang  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
China  has  always  valued  the  role  of  international 
criminal 
the 
international  rule  of  law  and  in  punishing  the  most 
serious international crimes. China is consistently and 
actively  engaged  in  efforts  to  build  the  international 
criminal 
the 
establishment  of  an  independent,  impartial,  effective 
and  universal  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
and  we  have  attended  the  successive  sessions  of  the 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court as an observer.
system.  China 
supports 
justice 
China  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
submitting  the  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (see  A/68/314)  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
accordance with article 6 of the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court and paragraph 19 of resolution 66/262. 
22/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
Our thanks go also to President Sang-Hyun Song of the 
ICC for preparing that report.
I  would  like  to  make  a  few  comments  on  the 
relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC 
and on some aspects of the ICC’s work.
First,  on  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  ICC,  China  supports  cooperation 
between the two bodies in a manner that conforms to 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  Security  Council 
resolutions  and  the  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  as  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/68/364). The United Nations and the ICC are closely 
linked.  As  one  of  the  trigger  mechanisms  for  ICC 
jurisdiction, the United Nations, through the Security 
Council, has the right to refer situations to the ICC. As 
a  control  mechanism,  article  16  of  the  Rome  Statute 
states  that  the  Security  Council  may  request  in  a 
resolution, adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter, 
that no investigation or prosecution be commenced or 
proceeded with for a period of 12 months by the ICC, 
and  the  Security  Council  may  renew  such  a  request 
under  the  same  conditions.  China  believes  that  for 
the two bodies to fulfil their respective functions and 
goals, the United Nations and the ICC must carry out 
cooperation  within  the  legal  framework  specified  in 
the  Charter,  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
and  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations and the ICC. That is the only way for both sides 
to derive benefits from their cooperation.
implementation  of 
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  principle  of  the 
complementarity  of  ICC  jurisdiction,  China  believes 
that,  with  the  ICC  becoming  fully  operational,  the 
effective 
the  complementarity 
principle has taken on greater importance. Under that 
principle, national courts have the primary role in the 
jurisdiction  and  trial  of  international  crimes.  Only 
when  a  State  is  unable  or  unwilling  to  deal  with  the 
international  crimes  in  question  can  the  ICC  step  in 
to  complement  the  national  court  vis-à-vis  the  cases. 
However, in practice, disputes may arise over whether 
a particular case falls under the purview of the national 
court in the country concerned or under that of the ICC.
China has noted that multiple recent controversies 
over cases involving certain African countries, handled 
by the ICC, have given rise to resentment and worries 
on  the  part  of  the  countries  concerned  and  some 
African  countries.  China  is  deeply  concerned  at  that 
development.  We  maintain  that  the  ICC  must  strictly 
comply  with  the  complementarity  principle,  fully 
respect  the  needs  and  wishes  of  national  courts  to 
handle cases themselves, give positive consideration to 
the  legitimate  demands  of  the  regional  organizations 
concerned,  and  take  actions  to  assist  with  national 
capacity-building so as to promote effective jurisdiction 
by the countries concerned over the relevant cases.
Thirdly, China wishes to reiterate that we support 
the international community in its endeavour to punish 
serious international crimes and deliver judicial justice. 
At the same time, we hope that the ICC will ensure that 
its efforts to safeguard judicial justice will be conducive 
to peace and avoid any negative impacts on the situation 
of the countries and regions concerned and the relevant 
political processes, so that its work will truly advance 
the well-being of populations on the ground. China will 
continue  to  follow  the  ICC’s  work  and  hopes  that  the 
ICC will win wider confidence and support through its 
practice.
Last  but  not  least,  the  Chinese  delegation  would 
like to thank President Sang-Hyun Song of the ICC for 
informing us in a timely way of the latest developments 
in  the  case  of  President  Uhuru  Kenyatta  of  Kenya. 
The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  decision  issued 
earlier today by the ICC deferring the start of the trial 
of  the  case.  My  delegation  holds  the  view  that  the 
concerns  of  Kenya  and  the  African  Union  should  be 
addressed  properly.  China  will  pay  close  attention  to 
the development of the relevant cases.
Mr.  Kihurani  (Kenya):  We  appreciate  receiving 
the  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
(see  A/68/314),  which  provides  useful  insights  into 
the activities of the Court for the period under review, 
namely, 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
The Assembly of State Parties to the Rome Statute 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  established  an 
independent  permanent  International  Criminal  Court 
with  authority  over  the  most  serious  crimes  that 
threaten peace and security. The Court, operating under 
the  principle  of  complementarity  to  national  criminal 
jurisdictions,  ensures 
that  effective  prosecution 
measures are taken at the national level with enhanced 
international  cooperation  and,  where  necessary,  the 
Court seeks to strengthen that capacity. The Preamble 
to the Rome Statute, while recognizing the primacy of 
national criminal jurisdictions, recalls that it is the duty 
of every State to exercise its criminal jurisdiction over 
the perpetrators of serious crimes.
13-54081
23/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
We  note  that  the  report  refers,  and  rightfully  so, 
to  the  fact  that  public  and  diplomatic  support  for  the 
mandate of the Court further contributes to its effective 
functioning  and,  furthermore,  that  the  Court  requires 
timely and full support from State parties in order to 
assist  and  support  the  Court  in  its  activities.  While 
we agree with those sentiments, we hasten to add that 
the  cooperation  referred  to  therein  is  and  should  be 
a  two-way  process  that  requires  the  Court  to  extend 
its  cooperation,  considerations,  accommodation  and 
support, especially those that are mutually beneficial, 
to States parties.
interpretation  and 
implementation  of 
The current superficial, and in our understanding, 
wrong 
the 
Rome  Statute  in  relation  to  Kenya  shows  little  or  no 
accommodation to the concerns of an active, cooperating 
State party with a rich history of local jurisprudence. 
The  Statute  is  clearly  being  applied  in  a  manner  that 
is  highly  prejudicial  to  a  Member  State’s  national, 
regional and international interests. In fact, we believe 
it is an interpretation consistent with a political agenda 
rather than a quest for fighting impunity or a search for 
lasting peace or justice.
Justice  not  only  needs  to  be  done  but  also  needs 
to  be  seen  to  be  done.  Likewise,  perhaps  more 
important,  the  independence  of  the  Court  must  not 
only be declared, but should also be seen to be present, 
apparent and real. Kenya is of the considered view that 
such is often not the case. We call upon all organs of the 
Court — the presidency, the Office of the Prosecutor, 
the  three  judicial  divisions,  the  Registry  and  other 
offices — to take immediate action to ensure that their 
independence and that of the Court are not undermined. 
Collectively, we need to take urgent steps to ensure that 
such  independence  is  actualized  sooner  rather  than 
later.
In that regard, all State parties to the Rome Statute 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  should  feel  that 
they have equal access to the Court and to the Office 
of the Prosecutor and that no State party, or non-State 
party for that matter, should have privileged access to 
the Court or the Office of the Prosecutor.
It is a matter of public notoriety that the Court faces 
resource constraints. That has often been cited as a cause 
for its limited operations or involvement in situations 
that  warrant  the  Court’s  urgent  interventions  aimed 
at  curbing  the  escalation  of  crimes  against  humanity 
and other serious crimes that threaten peace, security 
and  the  well-being  of  the  world.  It  is  regrettable  that 
the  Court  is  not  seized  of  several  ongoing  situations 
affecting large populations of women and children who 
bear the brunt of the effects of the commission of the 
serious crimes. In that regard, we call upon the Court 
to  prioritize  its  resource  allocations  so  as  to  ensure 
that  the  finite  financial  resources,  human  capital  and 
constrained  judicial  time  are  directed  to  areas  that 
warrant  urgent  intervention  and  involvement;  that 
is,  in  places  and  situations  where  such  interventions 
are  urgently  needed  and  the  impact  of  which  will  be 
immediate  and  have  a  causal  effect  on  alleviating 
human suffering.
Kenya considers that the Rome Statute is undergoing 
a test as to its veracity, usefulness and impartiality. The 
way in which the Rome Statue is now being implemented 
contradicts what was envisaged during the negotiations 
on the Rome Statute. In the current implementation of 
Rome Statute, the international criminal justice system 
is  faced  with  a  unique  historical  conundrum  that 
needs  to  be  approached  constructively,  intellectually, 
politically and with a view towards achieving a positive 
and constructive outcome and the full realization of the 
ideals espoused by the Rome Statute’s creators.
It may appear to the innocent eye that, in the present 
state  of  interpretation  and  implementation,  the  ideals 
of  Rome  Statute,  namely,  the  punishment  of  serious 
crimes,  the  fight  against  impunity,  the  promotion  of 
national  healing  and  reconciliation  and  reparations 
for  victims,  may  be  achieved.  However,  it  is  Kenya’s 
contention that the current implementation of the Rome 
Statute is counterproductive and antagonistic to those 
very ideals.
It is in that regard that the international community 
and the Court have a very special obligation. We should 
restrain  ourselves  from  adopting  a  narrow,  rigid  and 
agenda-driven  interpretation  of  the  Rome  Statute 
that  seeks  to  exclude  all  other  processes  relevant  and 
important for sustained international as well as national 
peace. Instead, we should advocate for an all-inclusive 
and carefully calibrated system with clear benchmarks 
and achievable standards. To that end, we must prioritize 
and  build  on  the  gains  of  reconciliation,  promote 
restorative  justice  and  foster  national  reconciliation 
rather than focusing on meting out raw punishment.
Kenya,  as  a  proud  member  of  the  community 
of  nations,  has  contributed  immensely  with  limited 
resources  to  the  achievement  of  peace,  security  and 
24/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
multilateralism.  We  will  continue  to  engage  actively 
in  matters  relating  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Joyini  (South  Africa):  I  am  delighted  to 
welcome His Excellency Judge Song, President of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC), to New York. We 
thank  him  and  his  team  of  judges,  not  only  for  the 
annual report for the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 
2013  (see  A/68/314),  but  also  for  their  tireless  efforts 
to  promote  international  criminal  justice,  with  the 
ultimate objective of securing a peaceful world for all 
of  us  who  live  in  it.  As  always,  we  found  the  report 
to be comprehensive, and it touches on very important 
aspects relating to the work of the ICC.
We  have  taken  particular  note  of  part  II  of  the 
report,  entitled  “Judicial  proceedings”.  As  a  firm 
believer in judicial independence, we shall restrict our 
comments  to  that  section.  The  effective  and  efficient 
functioning  of  the  ICC  itself,  being  independent  but 
also accountable in its administration, is an important 
factor  in  bringing  an  end  to  impunity  and  for  setting 
standards  for  the  prosecution  and  adjudication  of  the 
most heinous crimes of concern to humanity. By trying 
those  responsible,  the  world  exposes  the  truth  of  the 
atrocities,  deters  future  crimes  and  helps  to  attain 
justice  for  the  victims.  Victims  deserve  justice.  That 
will  happen  by  strengthening  institutions  of  justice 
nationally  and  internationally.  The  ICC  is  central 
to  that  vision,  and  it  must  be  strengthened  to  deliver 
justice everywhere.
to  believe 
South  Africa  continues 
that  an 
important  tool  in  the  fight  against  impunity  remains 
the  efforts  to  build  national  capacities  to  investigate 
and  prosecute  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community.  It  is  therefore  appropriate 
that  complementarity  is  at  the  heart  of  the  Rome 
Statute. It is for that reason that South Africa, together 
with Denmark, continues to exert efforts to mainstream 
complementarity-related activities.
For  South  Africa,  the  Rome  Statute,  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court  it  created,  does  not 
operate in a vacuum but rather is an important element 
in  a  new  system  of  international  law.  That  modern 
system is one characterized by greater solidarity that, 
while  remaining  true  to  the  principle  of  sovereignty, 
prioritizes the common good. The foundations for that 
modern system of law are of course, contained in the 
Charter of the United Nations, in particular the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  —  namely,  to 
maintain international peace and security and to bring 
about peaceful solutions to conflict in conformity with 
the principles of justice and international law.
International criminal law as it stands today is built 
upon  the  pursuit  of  peace  through  the  fight  against 
impunity.  Already  in  1946,  the  Nuremburg  Tribunal 
recognized that only through fighting impunity can the 
provisions of international law be enforced and peace 
attained.  The  relationship  between  peace  and  justice 
is  therefore  ubiquitous  in  the  development  of  modern 
international law. That relationship between peace and 
justice was evident to the drafters of the ICC Statute. 
We  are  firmly  committed  to  the  idea  that  peace  and 
security,  on  the  one  hand,  and  justice  and  the  fight 
against impunity, on the other, must go hand in hand. 
We  find  those  values,  which  we  emphasize  are  the 
foundation of the modern system in which we interact, 
reflected in the Rome Statute.
It is important that we remember what we have said 
here, namely, that the relationship between peace and 
justice  is  ubiquitous  in  the  foundation  of  our  modern 
system and it is similarly present in the Rome Statute. 
Therefore, peace is also important, and peace must be 
given an opportunity to flourish in any given situation. 
By  now  all  of  us  are  familiar  with  the  contents 
of  article  16,  which  provides  that  investigations  and 
prosecutions may not be proceeded with for a period of 
a year after the adoption of a resolution by the Security 
Council  under  Chapter  VII.  Article  16  is  present 
in  the  Statute  precisely  to  ensure  a  complementary 
relationship between the pursuit of justice, on the one 
hand, and the attainment of peace on the other. It exists 
in the Statute precisely to ensure that, in the pursuit of 
justice, peace must be given a chance to flourish.
the 
As  members  of 
international  community 
concerned  about  peace  and  justice,  we  are  concerned 
about indictments that may derail peace processes. For 
that  reason,  we  support  the  call  made  by  the  African 
Union  for  the  Security  Council  to  adopt  an  article  16 
resolution  in  the  context  of  Kenya.  A  precedent  was 
created by resolution 1422 (2002), which the Security 
Council  adopted  at  its  4572nd  meeting,  on  12  July 
2002. The Security Council, during its adoption of that 
resolution, emphasized the importance of international 
peace and security. In paragraph 1 of the resolution, the 
Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter,
13-54081
25/27
A/68/PV.42 
31/10/2013
“Requests,  consistent  with  the  provisions  of 
Article 16 of the Rome Statute, that the ICC, if a 
case arises involving current or former officials or 
personnel from a contributing State not a Party to 
the Rome Statute over acts or omissions relating to a 
United Nations established or authorized operation, 
shall  for  a  twelve-month  period  starting  1  July 
2002 not commence or proceed with investigation 
or prosecution of any such case, unless the Security 
Council decides otherwise”.
It is because of the relationship between peace and 
justice,  as  it  exists  in  the  new  value-laden  system  of 
international law, that we see no contradiction between 
South  Africa’s  continued  support  for  the  ICC  as  a 
judicial body mandated to dispense justice, on the one 
hand,  and  our  pursuit  of  the  attainment  of  peace  in 
Kenya through political means, including through the 
process provided for in article 16 of the Statute, on the 
other.  For  South  Africa,  therefore,  peace  and  justice 
must  necessarily  go  together.  We  cannot  pursue  one 
without  regard  to  the  other,  and  we  certainly  cannot 
pursue  one  at  the  expense  of  the  other.  They  are  two 
sides of the same coin. And while the Court continues 
to  pursue  justice,  the  political  organs  of  the  system 
we  have  created,  including  the  African  Union  Peace 
and Security Council and the United Nations Security 
Council, must use all means available to them to ensure 
the attainment and maintenance of peace and security.
In conclusion, the International Criminal Court is 
an institution designed to create a better world through 
fighting  impunity.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
Court so that it can grow from strength to strength.
Mr. Norman (Canada): Let me first thank President 
Song for his report on the activities of the International 
Criminal Court (see A/68/314). 
Canada  supports  efforts 
the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern are held to account. It is the duty of all States to 
prosecute within their jurisdiction those responsible for 
serious international crimes, but if States are unwilling 
or unable to do so, international mechanisms may fill 
the gaps and serve as a court of last resort. 
to  ensure 
that 
The  Court’s  decision  on  11  October  that  the  case 
against Mr. Al-Senussi is inadmissible, as he is currently 
subject  to  domestic  proceedings  conducted  by  the 
Libyan  competent  authorities,  provides  an  illustration 
of the principle of complementarity in action.
Canada takes note of the fact that that 122 States 
are  now  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  following  the 
ratification by Côte d’Ivoire on 15 February. We note 
that  concerns  have  been  raised  by  the  African  Union 
and  several  States  in  relation  to  the  Court.  We  are 
hopeful that the upcoming Assembly of States Parties 
will provide us with an opportunity to understand those 
concerns better.
Canada  encourages  all  States  to  abide  by  their 
international  commitments.  It  is  disturbing  that  some 
arrest warrants are not being executed.
(spoke in French)
Canada  reiterates  the  need  for  fiscal  discipline. 
States  are  accountable  to  their  taxpayers,  and  we 
therefore  have  to  insist  on  international  mechanisms 
deliver good value for the money. While we note that 
the Court has realized savings over the past few years 
by way of administrative efficiencies and prioritization, 
more must be done to ensure that costs do not increase.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 75. 
Before  giving  the  floor  to  speakers  in  exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply,  may  I  remind  members  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Aldahhak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  want  to  respond  to  certain  statements  that 
were made with regard to the situation in Syria today. 
Within the framework of the right to reply, we would 
like to emphasize the following points.
First,  the  primary  responsibility  for  promoting 
justice and accountability belongs to States.
Secondly, we cannot accept the use of noble values 
such  as  the  promotion  of  justice  to  serve  political  or 
suspect agendas. Rather than there being consensus on 
such values, we have before us a conflict of interest.
Thirdly, selective analyses of events in Syria today 
would  have  it  that  responsibility  lies  solely  with  the 
Syrian  Government.  That  does  not  take  into  account 
the crimes being committed by armed terrorist groups, 
including  thousands  of  Takfiris  and  extremists  from 
abroad,  as  well  as  foreign  mercenaries.  Not  taking 
those crimes into account shows the duplicity of some 
in several international forums.
26/27 
13-54081
31/10/2013 
A/68/PV.42
Justice must be free of selectivity, politicization and 
duplicity.  That  means  not  closing  our  eyes  to  certain 
verified  war  crimes  and  ensuring  accountability  for 
officials  of  certain  known  Governments  deploying 
terrorists  and  mercenaries  to  Syria  from  all  regions 
of the world. Those parties are providing training and 
weapons  for  the  commission  of  terrorist  crimes.  The 
acts of those States that support terrorists are targeting 
Syria as a State and the Syrians as a people. It is clear 
that the interests of the Syrian people are not served by 
sending terrorists and mercenaries and destroying the 
country.
We are grateful to all those who are looking after 
the  interests  of  the  Syrian  people.  We  reiterate  that 
the only way to protect the Syrian people and to take 
sincere steps towards ending the violence is to support 
efforts that can lead to the holding of the “Geneva II” 
conference in order to arrive at a solution by means of 
an inclusive dialogue among Syrians. Only the Syrians 
can determine their future, by exercising their own will 
and independence through elections.
We  call  on  the  Swiss  Government,  which  will 
serve as host of the Geneva conference, to respect the 
right of the Syrian people to make their own decisions 
through free will. We also call on them to be vigilant 
on military exports. We regret that a number of Syrians 
have  been  killed  as  a  result  of  attacks  using  bombs 
manufactured in Switzerland. Switzerland is a signatory 
to conventions under international law, as pointed out 
in  Le  Matin  Dimanche  and  Sonntags  Zeitung.  Those 
Swiss newspapers have confirmed those events.
Mr. Zellweger (Switzerland): I take the liberty of 
taking the floor again, since the representative of Syria 
has mentioned Switzerland. There are certain points on 
which we would even agree with the statement made by 
the Syrian representative.
One is that it is first and foremost up to the Syrian 
authorities to see to it that the crimes currently being 
committed are addressed by judicial means. That was 
also something we stressed in our statement, indicating 
that  such  proceedings  had  not  taken  place,  and  hence 
the letter to the Security Council asking it to refer the 
situation  in  Syria  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(A/67/694, annex).
Secondly,  we  mentioned  the  situation  in  Syria. 
We  did  not  speak  of  any  side  in  the  conflict,  we  did 
not  pinpoint  that  any  side  had  committed  crimes.  We 
mentioned the situation in the whole of Syria.
Thirdly, on the suggestion that Syrian people had 
been  killed  by  bombs  manufactured  in  Switzerland,  I 
just wish to say, first of all, that there were no bombs; 
they  were  hand  grenades.  We  certainly  deeply  regret 
that Syrian people have lost their lives because of hand 
grenades manufactured in Switzerland. But it is equally 
important to stress that Switzerland did not export those 
hand grenades to Syria. We have not done so in the past 
and we are not doing so at present. Those hand grenades 
were brought to Syria by other countries, independent 
of the will and control of the Swiss Government. The 
Swiss Government has publicly stated how deeply sorry 
it is that those hand grenades found their way to Syria 
and killed Syrian people. I reiterate that deep regret on 
our side. That was the case, but I also stress that we had 
no control over the use of those hand grenades.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 75?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
13-54081
27/27
