United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
22nd plenary meeting
Monday, 30 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.22
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Mesquita 
Borges  (Timor-Leste),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  János  Martonyi,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Hungary.
Mr. Martonyi (Hungary): Defining the post-2015 
strategy for development is among the most important 
long-term multilateral agendas existing today. The task 
is  complex,  but  the  mission  —  to  make  our  common 
development sustainable — should be clear. It is not just 
a synonym for the protection of the environment. The 
mission is to make sure that our societies, economies, 
environment  and  partnerships  will  serve  us  all  and 
serve the generations to come.
By  2030,  our  population  will  be  9  billion  people, 
65  per  cent  of  whom  will  live  in  cities,  forming 
consumer  societies  with  ever-growing  demands  but 
using the same or a declining pool of natural resources. 
Civil societies and other non-governmental players have 
more influence than ever on our values and decisions. 
We are racing against climate change. Our perceptions 
of progress, equity, inequality, affluence and resource 
management are changing as we speak. The post-2015 
development agenda has to reflect these changes.
As we face a turning point in our history and the 
state of the Earth, it is only with a fundamental shift in 
mindset  that  humanity  will  succeed  in  a  transition  to 
global sustainable development. We have to accelerate 
progress  towards  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  However,  we  know  that  by  2015 
we  may  not  be  able  to  meet  all  the  targets  we  set  in 
2000.  Therefore,  the  next  important  step  is  to  create 
a  single  agenda  through  which  we  will  complete  the 
unfinished  business  and  make  sure  that  the  results 
will last even in the light of the tremendous challenges 
facing humankind.
transformation 
We  should  aim  at  eradicating  extreme  poverty 
in  a  single  generation.  The 
to 
sustainable development is costly; however, it would be 
incomparably more costly to miss the chance. We should 
learn  from  past  mistakes  and  find  better  alternatives. 
We  all  need  economic  growth.  We  all  need  justice, 
respect for human rights, gender equality, dignity, good 
governance  and  successfully  implemented  national 
development plans. We all deserve to live free of want 
and  from  fear  of  devastating  conflicts.  Our  objective 
should be not a zero-sum game but a win-win outcome. 
We all share the consequences; therefore we should be 
aware of our common responsibility as well.
The decisions we make today will also need to be 
relevant  in  15  years.  When  our  successors  look  back 
in 2030 on the agenda we are about to decide on, they 
should acknowledge the purpose, priorities and targets 
jointly  set.  They  should  be  convinced  that  our  action 
had the right impact and made this world a better place. 
I  thank  the  Member  States  for  the  confidence  they 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48953 (E)
*1348953*
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
have  shown  in  Hungary  by  entrusting  us  to  co-chair 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals.  We  will  do  our  best  to  achieve  a  consensual, 
forward-looking,  win-win  formula  as  the  outcome  of 
the negotiating process.
intended to apply an interrelated philosophy to address 
current  human  rights  challenges.  The  next  Forum  is 
due to take place in November and will be dedicated, 
among other things, to the relationship between human 
rights and sustainable development.
Hungary  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
issue of water and sanitation. We believe that it needs 
to  be  addressed  in  an  integrated  way  to  achieve  a 
human rights-based social development prosperity and 
ecological  balance.  Water  is  a  source  of  life,  health, 
prosperity  and  a  shared  future,  but  it  can  also  be  a 
source of risk.
In order to take stock of the various international 
developments  in  the  field  of  water,  Hungary  has 
decided  to  organize  the  Budapest  Water  Summit,  to 
be held in our capital from 8 to 11 October. Hungary 
is a downstream country with about 95 per cent of all 
fluvial waters originating beyond our State borders. We 
have accumulated precious know-how in flood control, 
drinking  water,  wastewater  treatment  and  irrigation, 
just to list a few. The Summit will be accompanied by 
a science forum, a youth forum, a civil society forum, 
a business leaders’ forum and Expo, and a philanthropy 
round table. We look forward to welcoming Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations agencies 
active in the field of water, as well as other international 
and national leaders to the conference. More than 100 
countries and international institutions have confirmed 
they  will  be  represented  in  Budapest.  The  Summit 
will  adopt  the  Budapest  Statement,  and  we  hope  that 
it will, as a synthesis document, greatly contribute to 
and  facilitate  the  discussions  and  negotiations  on  the 
sustainable development goals.
The  appalling  situations  in  various  parts  of  the 
world  leave  no  doubt  as  to  the  interdependence  and 
mutually  reinforcing  nature  of  democracy,  peace  and 
security, development and human rights. A cross-policy 
approach that takes account of those interrelationships 
should be integrated into the work of the various bodies 
and forums of the United Nations.
Hungary  welcomes  the  measures  that  the  United 
Nations  system  is  introducing  to  mainstream  human 
rights.  Likewise,  it  encourages  national  initiatives 
and  contributions  to  the  protection  of  human  rights. 
Hungary remains dedicated to the promotion of human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. It was in this spirit 
that  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  Hungary 
established the annual Budapest Human Rights Forum, 
Hungary 
is  committed 
to  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  efforts,  which  are  fundamental  for 
maintaining  global  peace  and  security.  We  urge  all 
countries to ratify the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
We  also  support  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East,  as 
foreseen by the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.
My  country  was  greatly  honoured  to  chair  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency’s  International 
Conference on Nuclear Security in July and sincerely 
hopes that the results of that Conference will contribute 
to a safer world.
On  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT),  I  am  confident  that  its  entry  into  force  will 
greatly  strengthen  global  peace  and  security.  Only 
a  treaty  in  force  will  confine  the  chapter  on  nuclear 
testing  to  the  history  books.  We  therefore  need  to 
further  intensify  our  respective  efforts.  I  and  my 
fellow article XIV Coordinator Mr. Marty Natalegawa, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Indonesia, will make an 
attempt to bring us closer to that goal. I look forward 
to our co-coordinatorship of the CTBT for the period 
2013-2015 with a view to accelerating the ratification 
process.
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  was  a 
crime against humanity. The international community 
has  finally  embarked  on  action  to  ensure  that  similar 
attacks  will  never  be  repeated.  We  urge  that  the 
perpetrators  of  all  war  crimes  be  brought  to  justice. 
Without  justice  there  is  no  reconciliation.  Without  a 
chance for reconciliation, there is no lasting settlement. 
We  welcome  the  United  States-Russia  agreement  on 
the framework for the elimination of Syrian chemical 
weapons as well as the consequent resolutions adopted 
by  the  Executive  Council  of  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons,  and  the  Security 
Council. We look forward to a timely, transparent and 
full-scale  implementation  under  the  watchful  eyes  of 
the international community.
Hungary is ready to provide chemical and biological 
experts on the ground to facilitate those international 
2/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
efforts.  We  urge  the  Syrian  authorities  to  take  full 
responsibility to ensure that their chemical weapons are 
stored securely until inspection and destruction, and do 
not fall into the hands of any other State or non-State 
actor. Syria should live up to its commitments, including 
by providing full access to the international inspectors.
We  hope  that  these  developments  will  bring  us 
closer  to  a  lasting  and  sustainable  political  solution, 
which  should  remain  the  backbone  of  our  efforts  in 
the Syrian crisis. Well over 100,000 lives have already 
been lost and 5 million people displaced in this conflict. 
Most regrettably, it was only after a terrible chemical 
attack  last  August  that  the  Security  Council  became 
ready to fulfil its duties and embarked on action. I urge 
all  partners  in  the  international  community  to  seize 
this  momentum  and  reinvigorate  the  process  leading 
to  the  long-overdue  “Geneva  II”  international  peace 
conference on Syria.
Last, but not least, my country is shocked by and 
strongly condemns the surging terrorist attacks against 
civilians  at  the  Westgate  Mall  in  Kenya,  students  in 
Nigeria, and Christian, Muslim and other communities 
in  Pakistan,  Iraq,  Afghanistan  and  elsewhere.  Our 
solidarity and sympathy go to the innocent victims.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  François  Lounceny  Fall,  Minister  of 
State for Foreign Affairs and Guineans Abroad of the 
Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Fall  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  with 
legitimate pride that I address the General Assembly, a 
symbol of the resolve of peoples to pool their potential 
in order to forge a better world where peace, security, 
prosperity and solidarity will allow humankind to face 
the many challenges before it.
My  pride  is  as  great  as  my  country,  since  we  as 
a  nation  have  just  reached  an  important  stage  in  our 
history by finalizing the transitional process and holding 
legislative elections on 28 September. Guinea has thus 
joined the melting pot of democratic nations that respect 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  It  was  able 
to do so thanks to the assistance of its partners whose 
action  catalysed  a  fruitful  dialogue  among  the  actors 
of Guinean political life. The elections have certainly 
opened the path to widespread development blazed by 
the  Government  so  that  the  Guinean  population  can 
finally take advantage of its rich potential.
I  could  not  find  a  better  opportunity  than  from 
this rostrum to convey the gratitude of the people and 
Government of Guinea to the international community 
and  to  reiterate  my  country’s  commitment  to  the 
principles and purposes of our Organization, . I should 
also  like  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, whose devotion and, above all, 
competence  have  strengthened  the  central  role  of  the 
United Nations in managing crises and improving the 
living conditions of our populations.
I am firmly convinced that the new President of the 
General  Assembly,  Mr.  John  William  Ashe,  a  man  of 
the South, will understand better than anyone what is at 
stake in the theme for this session. I assure him of the 
full  cooperation  of  my  delegation  in  carrying  out  his 
noble mission. We also express our great appreciation 
to his predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for his efforts in 
maintaining the Assembly at its highest level.
World  peace  and  security  are  at  the  heart  of  our 
concerns and should be the subject of our full attention. 
A number of conflicts have been ended. Countries such 
as Sierra Leone, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire and Burundi have 
been able to turn the page of war in order to dedicate 
themselves  to  peacebuilding,  thereby  guaranteeing 
national  reconstruction  and  sustainable  development. 
The  international  community  has  the  duty  to  support 
and assist them.
In this context, I should like to evoke the case of 
Mali, which is emerging from a period of crisis. Sadly, 
the  recent  past  of  that  brotherly  country  reminds  us 
of  the  vulnerability  of  our  States  to  terrorism  and 
extremism, as well as the fragility of our institutions. 
The  international  community  mobilized  unanimously 
to maintain Mali’s sovereignty and territorial integrity 
and to restore the authority of its State and constitutional 
legality.
The peace that reigned in the presidential election 
in  Mali  certainly  augurs  a  new  era  of  prosperity  for 
the  country.  Mali  urgently  needs  assistance  in  order 
to build peace, reconcile the Malians and rebuild their 
country. It needs assistance to strengthen its security, 
which  is  indivisible  from  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region. 
We must always recall that terrorism never sleeps; we 
must combat and defeat it. International security is at 
stake.
Guinea will never abandon its solidarity with Mali. 
Its presence within the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali testifies to our 
13-48953
3/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
commitment to the stabilization of the subregion. The 
Guinean  Government  reiterates  its  determination  to 
work  for  the  re-establishment  of  constitutional  order 
in Guinea-Bissau on the basis of the recommendations 
of  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  the  African  Union,  the  International 
Contact  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  the  European  Union 
and the United Nations.
The Mano River Union is an essential link for the 
consolidation  of  peace  in  West  Africa  and  deserves 
our  full  attention.  The  international  community,  and 
in  particular  the  United  Nations  and  ECOWAS,  must 
work to support that organization in its global approach 
to meeting the security and socioeconomic challenges.
We welcome the determination of the Peacebuilding 
Commission 
to  assist  Sierra  Leone,  Liberia  and 
Guinea  in  their  efforts  in  security  and  defence  sector 
reform,  while  promoting  youth  employment  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  on  the  basis  of  national 
reconciliation.
With  respect  to  the  Great  Lakes  region,  we  urge 
the parties to renounce violence and to firmly commit 
to  bringing  peace  to  the  region  via  adherence  to  the 
Framework  Agreement  of  24  February.  We  thank  the 
Mediator,  President  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  for  his 
efforts  to  re-establish  sustainable  peace  in  eastern 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  and  the  Great  Lakes 
region.
As  for  the  Central  African  Republic,  urgent 
measures are needed to prevent a collapse of the State 
and  to  avert  the  chronic  instability  that  threatens  the 
country. We urge the Sudan and South Sudan to pursue 
dialogue in order to solve pending questions, specifically 
the status of Abyei province, and to relaunch bilateral 
cooperation.
Given the deteriotation of the situation in Syria, the 
international community must strive further to bring an 
end to the relentless violence and massive destruction 
of  lives  and  property.  Guinea  condemns  the  use  of 
chemical weapons, which violates international norms 
and human dignity. Robust action must be undertaken 
for the destruction of the chemical arsenal in Syria, in 
accordance  with  the  Russian-American  initiative  and 
Security  Council  resolution  2118  (2013).  At  the  same 
time, the legal framework prohibiting the manufacture, 
stockpiling  and  use  of  chemical  weapons  must  be 
strengthened.
I cannot fail to raise the issue of Western Sahara, 
where we call on all stakeholders to spare no effort to 
arrive at a political solution. Our solidarity with Cuba 
is  as  strong  as  ever  as  we  seek  to  have  the  embargo 
unjustly imposed on its people lifted.
that 
is 
the 
the 
focus  of 
I  should  like  to  weigh  in  on  a  subject  of  major 
concern 
international 
community’s  attention  —  the  Palestinian  question. 
In  spite  of  the  many  injunctions  of  the  international 
community,  the  Palestinian  people  continue  to  suffer. 
Arbitrary violence, settlements and the seizure of goods 
continue to be the people’s daily lot. Guinea reiterates 
its unceasing support for the Palestinian cause, in the 
belief that peace and stability in the Middle East require 
the  implementation  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security Council and the road map of the Quartet, which 
foresees the creation of an independent, sovereign and 
viable Palestinian State living side by side and in peace 
with Israel within safe and internationally recognized 
borders.  We  express  the  hope  that  the  negotiations 
under way will enable the Palestinian people to finally 
enjoy their inalienable rights.
in  order 
to  ensure 
Ever  since  its  creation,  the  United  Nations  has 
spared  no  effort  to  promote  peace,  security  and 
international  cooperation 
the 
harmonious development of humankind. In this context, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  a  source  of 
real  hope  for  developing  countries.  The  undeniable 
progress  made  in  many  areas  —  growth,  education, 
gender equality, and maternal and child health — has 
largely  contributed  to  pushing  back  the  borders  of 
poverty. Nevertheless, many important challenges have 
still to be met.
At  a  time  when  the  international  community  is 
investing  in  the  creation  of  a  post-2015  development 
agenda, we must recognize that the results achieved by 
the Millennium Development Goals have not lived up to 
our hopes. The eradication of extreme poverty depends 
on the strengthening of the human development base and 
the promotion of a competitive economy that respects 
the environment, which is an engine of inclusive growth 
and decent work. It also depends on governance that is 
favourable to sustainable development in the context of 
peace and security.
In this quest, the focus must be on the monitoring, 
transparency and management of our natural resources. 
We must join in international partnership on the basis 
of reaffirmed solidarity and shared responsibility. That 
4/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
must be our new vision. In the formulation of the post-
2015 development agenda, we must take into account the 
synergies  arising  from  the  complementarity  between 
the Millennium Development Goals and the sustainable 
development  goals.  We  must  also  particularly  stress 
South-South  and  triangular  cooperation,  and  promote 
innovative  financing  in  order  to  bridge  the  gap  in 
official development assistance.
In the unanimous resolve to fight marginalization, 
my  delegation  remains  convinced  that  Africa’s  fight 
to  master  its  own  destiny  will  be  understood.  The 
determination  of  Heads  of  State  on  the  continent  to 
adopt  a  common  African  position  and  to  create  a 
high-level  committee  charged  with  forging  regional 
and  intercontinental  alliances  around  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  are  part  of  the  dynamic  to  build 
a  better  world  without  conflict  and  poverty  and  their 
corollaries.
My  country  has  always  believed  in  the  value 
of  multilateralism, 
the  only  guarantor  of  peace, 
international  security  and  shared  development.  The 
United  Nations  is  still  the  irreplaceable  framework 
for cooperation and the management of world affairs. 
Guinea,  as  in  the  past,  will  continue  to  contribute  to 
this  lofty  fight  in  order  to  ensure  a  better  future  for 
humankind. That is why it shares the concerns of the 
international community and invites it to begin setting 
the post-2015 stage.
We  leaders  must  outline  how  this  new  world 
partnership will work. It is time to draw lessons from 
the past in order to launch a fruitful dialogue in which 
all  development  actors  will  participate  with  mutual 
respect and collective responsibility in the emergence of 
an international society that is more just, equitable and 
more unified. There is a need for a new international 
architecture. The world would do better if all nations, 
large  and  small,  strong  and  weak,  effectively  played 
their part towards achieving the overall well-being of 
humankind.
The  Republic  of  Guinea  will  not  cease  its  call 
for  the  United  Nations  system  to  be  reformed  and 
adapted  to  the  needs  of  the  moment.  It  is  a  question 
of equity and justice. Our will is unshakeable and the 
momentum  is  irreversible  because  the  aspirations  of 
people  who  are  passionate  about  peace,  freedom  and 
progress  are  profound.  It  is  high  time  to  listen  to  the 
voices of those who do not have a voice — the poorest 
and most vulnerable. No one should suffer from hunger, 
fear, illness or the spectre of ignorance. Our duty is to 
leave to future generations an environment conducive 
to  sustainable  development.  Together  we  will  save 
humanity.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Albert  del  Rosario,  Secretary  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
Mr.  Del  Rosario  (Philippines):  On  behalf  of 
the  Philippine  Government,  I  proffer  my  warmest 
congratulations to the President on his election. I wish 
him success and assure him of my country’s steadfast 
support for his presidency.
The  theme  that  has  been  selected  for  this  session 
is  indeed  timely  and  relevant.  We  must  start  setting 
the  stage  for  the  new  development  agenda  that  will 
succeed  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
framework.  Barely  two  years  before  its  deadline, 
considerable work still lies ahead of us. For instance, the 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis  has  underscored 
the  need 
towards  greater  systemic 
coherence;  the  multilateral  trading  system  remains 
frozen in the past; and the persistence of an outdated 
development  paradigm  results  in  policy  prescriptions 
and  conditionalities  inimical  to  the  interests  of  many 
developing countries.
reform 
for 
As we set the stage for the post-2015 framework, let 
us reaffirm the very raison d’être of the United Nations, 
which is to accord every person the opportunity at a life 
that is secure, progressive and dignified. That purpose 
is enshrined in the Philippine Constitution and is central 
to  President  Benigno  Aquino  III’s  social  contract 
with  the  Filipino  people.  Under  President  Aquino’s 
leadership,  my  country  has  embarked  on  a  journey 
along a straight path — or, as we say in Filipino, “daang 
matuwid”  —  resolving  to  work  towards  inclusive 
growth, combating corruption, promoting transparency 
and accountability, improving global competitiveness, 
making  better  use  of  resources,  achieving  just  and 
lasting peace, and upholding the rule of law.
The Aquino Administration firmly maintains that 
good  governance  is  good  economics.  As  a  result,  the 
Philippines is reaping the first fruits of its hard work. 
In the past four quarters, the Philippine economy has 
experienced unprecedented growth of over 7 per cent. 
As a result, the Philippines won three investment-grade 
ratings and is now considered a growth engine in the 
region.
13-48953
5/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
These glowing reports are, of course, well received 
by my Government, but we are under no illusion that 
these indicators alone constitute success. For the past 
13  years,  the  MDGs  have  been  integrated  into  the 
Philippine  development  plan  for  2011-2016.  Yet  our 
work continues and the challenge we now face is clear. 
It is how to ensure that growth is inclusive, resilient and 
sustainable. As we pursue the path towards this very type 
of growth, my Government is guided by the following 
important  lessons  learned  from  our  experience  in 
working towards the Millennium Development Goals.
First, 
strong 
institutional  arrangements  are 
necessary.  For  the  Philippines,  that  means  that  the 
highest political support is given to the attainment of 
the MDGs, involving all branches of Government and 
other key stakeholders.
Secondly,  specific  policies,  programmes  and 
projects  must  be  aligned  with  national  development 
goals.  In  our  MDG  experience,  innovative  social 
protection  programmes 
include  conditional  cash 
transfers,  universal  health  care,  the  comprehensive 
and integrated delivery of social services, a K-12 basic 
education  programme,  and  a  community  mortgage 
programme.
Thirdly, 
the  active  participation  of  various 
stakeholders — namely, the private sector, civil society, 
non-governmental  organizations,  the  constituents  and 
international development partners — must be strongly 
promoted and supported. This ensures that policies and 
programmes are responsive and inclusive.
Fourthly, 
local  Government  units  should  be 
empowered.  Beyond  the  delivery  of  basic  social 
services,  the  capacities  of  local  Government  units  in 
formulating and implementing policies and programmes 
must  be  strengthened  and  guided  by  the  principles  of 
transparency and accountability.
disaster 
Fifthly, the capability to generate accurate, timely 
and relevant data at the national and local levels must 
be enhanced.
Sixthly, 
be 
mainstreamed to enable communities to better cushion 
the impact of man-made and natural disasters. Building 
the capacities of national and local stakeholders to help 
reduce the vulnerability and increase the physical and 
economic  resilience  of  communities  must  be  a  key 
development goal.
reduction  must 
risk 
These  important  elements  will  further  enrich  the 
United  Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework 
2012-2018 for the Philippines. With the overall theme 
“Supporting 
resilient 
development”, 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Assistance  Framework  seeks  to  fully  align  United 
Nations  work  with  the  Philippine  Development  Plan 
2011-2016.
sustainable  and 
inclusive, 
My  Government  is  actively  participating  in  the 
international  discourse  on  sustainable  development 
and in crafting the post-2015 development agenda. The 
Philippines was one of 66 countries chosen by the United 
Nations  to  conduct  open,  inclusive  and  transparent 
consultations  with  a  broad  range  of  stakeholders 
aimed at generating perspectives on how the post-2015 
development agenda framework should look. We took 
to  this  task  earnestly  by  undertaking  consultations 
with  more  than  500  stakeholders  representing  the 
Government, civil society, the business community and 
academia.
Our  national  consultations  on 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda  have  identified  the  following 
building  blocks  of  the  new  framework,  as  well  as 
the  development  themes  deemed  most  relevant  to  the 
Philippines.  These  building  blocks  are  composed  of 
four  principles,  five  themes  and  various  development 
enablers,  and  were  offered  to  the  United  Nations 
system as the Philippines’ contribution to the ongoing 
discourse.
We  need  look  no  further  than  the  United  Nations 
Charter  to  identify  the  building  blocks  for  the  global 
post-2015  development  agenda.  For  this  agenda  to  be 
relevant  and  responsive,  it  must  be  anchored  in  four 
main principles: human rights; equality, equity, people 
empowerment, social cohesion and justice; accountable 
governance; and inclusive development.
My country has identified five pillars that we believe 
will address our own specific development challenges. 
These pillars represent the areas where progress is most 
needed to build a rights-based, equitable and sustainable 
society. These pillars are poverty reduction and social 
inclusion; environmental sustainability, climate change 
and disaster risk management; accountable, responsive 
and  participatory  governance;  a  fair  and  stable  order 
based on the international rule of law; and peace and 
security.
My  Government  will  formulate  and  implement 
policies  that  will  be  defined  by  these  pillars.  These 
6/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
policies  will  duly  be  integrated  into  my  country’s 
national  development  agenda,  and  progress  will  be 
monitored at regular intervals. On the global front, the 
Philippines proposes that the duration of the post-2015 
development agenda should be 10 years, with a major 
review  to  be  undertaken  by  2020.  Reforms  should  be 
front-loaded within the first half of the period to pave 
the way for substantive accomplishments by 2020.
Allow  me  to  further  elaborate  on  aspects  of  the 
principles and themes the Philippines has put forward. 
The  Philippines  continues  to  aspire  to  a  global 
economic system that places development at the centre 
and  promotes  democracy  in  international  economic 
decision-making. Ultimately, it behoves us to consider 
reform  of  the  overall  global  economic  system  as  we 
craft a sound, sustainable development agenda.
To achieve meaningful reform, what we need now 
is  a  strong  political  impetus  from  all  of  us  to  make 
this  happen.  Governments  must  see  beyond  political 
differences  and  agree  to  work  together  to  ensure  a 
level global playing field. It is for this reason that the 
Philippines staunchly supports the High-level Political 
Forum on sustainable development goals.
The post-2015 development agenda should squarely 
address  migration.  It  is  a  cross-cutting  issue  relevant 
to our efforts to promote human rights, reduce poverty 
and  foster  sustainable  development.  The  Philippines, 
for its part, will continue to advocate the protection of 
the  rights  of  migrants,  regardless  of  migration  status; 
the  recognition  of  migrants’  positive  contribution  to 
development  in  the  sending  and  receiving  countries 
alike;  and  the  creation  of  programmes  that  support 
families, especially the children who are left behind.
Our  national  experience  of  these  issues  will  be 
my  Government’s  contribution  to  the  discussion  in 
the  forthcoming  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration  and  Development 
this  week.  In 
addition, we hope to include in the discussion the plight 
of migrants who find themselves in conflict areas — a 
situation  that  my  Government  has  had  to  address  in 
recent years. In several instances, we have repatriated 
Filipino workers to get them out of harm’s way.
later 
Our experience has been instructive and enriching, 
as  it  has  opened  for  us  new  windows  of  cooperation 
with our bilateral partners, as well as with the United 
Nations,  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
and other international organizations. My Government 
wants to focus international discussion on the plight of 
these migrants, with a view to forging creative platforms 
on which States — whether countries of origin, transit 
or  destination —  can  cooperate  to  better  address  this 
complex issue.
The Philippines hopes that the High-level Dialogue 
will  reaffirm  that  migration  is  an  indispensable 
element in the global sustainable development agenda. 
Migration  influences  each  country’s  socioeconomic 
growth,  human  capital  and  involvement  in  global 
affairs.  Managing  migration  through  policies  that 
uphold the dignity of the individual should therefore be 
a  vital  component  in  the  development  agenda  of  each 
nation and of the world.
Achieving 
sustainable  development 
requires 
an  enabling  environment  of  peace,  security  and  the 
rule  of  law.  It  is  to  this  end  that  my  Government’s 
approach  in  managing  conflicts  within  and  outside 
its  borders  is  anchored  in  international  law.  As  such, 
we  avail  ourselves  of  the  various  means  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  including  mediation 
and arbitration, in accordance with Chapter VI of the 
United Nations Charter.
As  declared  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its 
resolution  37/10,  on 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes,  otherwise  known  as  the  1982 
Manila Declaration, recourse to the judicial settlement 
of legal disputes should not be considered an unfriendly 
act between States. On the contrary, it is a measure that 
generates  clarity,  benefiting  all  stakeholders.  In  this 
spirit,  my  country  reaffirms  its  unwavering  support 
for  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  various 
specialized  tribunals,  such  as  the  dispute  settlement 
mechanisms of the World Trade Organization and the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
The Philippines has also relentlessly and tirelessly 
pursued the peace process in the southern Philippines. 
The  signing  of  the  Framework  Agreement  on  the 
Bangsamoro was a milestone in this regard. We remain 
steadfastly  committed  to  achieving  just  and  lasting 
peace that will be inclusive for all.
Furthermore, in accordance with the application of 
the rule of law and the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
the  Philippines,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  and  a  staunch  advocate  of 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction,  also  welcomes  Syria’s  accession  to 
the Treaty. The Philippines hopes that the Organization 
for 
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  will 
13-48953
7/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
effectively assist the Syrian Government in disposing 
of its chemical weapons stockpiles.
its  continued  participation 
The  Philippine  Government’s  commitment 
to 
peace  is  resolute.  This  commitment  is  demonstrated 
in 
in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  particularly  in  the  United 
Nations  Disengagement  Observer  Force  (UNDOF)  in 
the  occupied  Golan  where,  despite  the  dangers,  our 
peacekeepers have stood their ground. Their courage to 
stay and hold the line at the most critical time led to the 
continued fulfilment of UNDOF’s mandate as charged 
by the Security Council.
those  at  highest  risk  from 
The President took the Chair.
The  post-2015  development  agenda  also  demands 
that  Governments  address  the  devastating  effects  of 
climate  change  and  natural  disasters.  My  country 
is  among 
typhoons, 
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis. In terms 
of disaster management, my Government has instituted 
a  cluster  model  that  mobilizes  both  Government  and 
non-governmental  entities  at  the  local  and  national 
levels,  as  well  as  international  partners.  The  United 
Nations  has  recognized  this  model  as  a  best  practice 
that  other  countries  could  emulate.  We  will  continue 
to  share  our  knowledge  and  experience  in  disaster-
risk reduction, preparedness, response and recovery to 
help  other  States  better  manage  similar  occurrences. 
In 2015, we will also actively participate in the World 
Humanitarian Summit and in the review of the Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action,  our  blueprint  for  disaster  risk 
reduction cooperation.
The year 2015 marks an important juncture in the 
history of nations. It will mark the beginning of a new 
era  of  sustainable  development,  one,  it  is  hoped,  that 
gives  every  individual  on  this  planet  a  better  chance 
at  a  better  quality  of  life.  That  may  sound  ambitious; 
it  may  even  sound  daunting.  Yet,  this  is  an  historic 
time and historic times call for acts of great ambition. 
Our national hero, Mr. José Rizal, also recognized the 
importance of ambition and ideals. He wrote that
“it is a useless life that is not consecrated to a great 
ideal. It is like a stone wasted on the field without 
becoming a part of any edifice”.
Let  the  post-2015  development  agenda  be  the  edifice 
upon which we will manifest the collective dreams and 
ideals of humankind.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency  Maxine  McClean,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
Ms. McClean (Barbados): It is my distinct honour 
and pleasure to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. The Caribbean Community 
(CARICOM)  Heads  of  Government,  at  their  thirty-
fourth meeting in July, pledged their support for your 
presidency.  Allow  me  therefore  to  assure  you  of  my 
delegation’s  support  throughout  the  current  session 
of the General Assembly. Let me also commend your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  ably  guiding  the 
work of the General Assembly during its sixty-seventh 
session.
You  have  assumed  leadership  of  the  General 
Assembly at a very pivotal moment in the United Nations 
timetable. The expiration deadline for the Millennium 
Development Goals is near, and our efforts to elaborate 
an  agenda  for  the  post-2015  period  are  intensifying. 
Following the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development,  modifications  have  been  made  to  the 
institutional  framework  for  sustainable  development. 
An  agreement  has  been  reached  on  the  establishment 
of  the  High-level  Political  Forum  and  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Assembly.  The  deliberations  on 
the  reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  have 
been completed. It is envisaged that the deliberations of 
the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development 
Goals and the intergovernmental committee of experts 
on  sustainable  development  financing  will  accelerate 
in the next few months. The international community 
continues  to  chart  a  course  in  the  pursuit  of  global 
sustainable development.
The theme of the sixty-eighth session of the General 
Assembly, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage”, will require us to engage in what might best 
be described as a retrospective and prospective dialogue. 
Much has been said about the current global financial 
and  economic  crisis,  which  has  been  made  worse  by 
the  many  manifestations  of  the  impact  of  climate 
change  —  extreme  weather  events,  food  crises  and 
volatile food crises — compounded by unprecedented 
levels of terror and violence. At the same time, we have 
seen a global determination to tackle these issues.
Barbados  recognizes  that  the  stability,  health  and 
productivity  of  the  global  environment,  particularly 
coastal  and  marine  resources,  are  fundamental  to  the 
8/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
survival  of  Barbados,  CARICOM  and  other  small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS).  We  therefore  deem 
it  imperative  that  countries  like  ours  maintain  active 
involvement 
the  global  development 
policy  agenda.  It  is  recognized,  however,  that  SIDS 
are  constrained  in  their  ability  and  capacity  to  craft 
independent  solutions.  One  major  barrier  is  our  debt 
situation.
in  shaping 
The  issue  of  debt  sustainability  is  of  particular 
relevance to SIDS. In highlighting its importance, the 
Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  in  his  feature  address 
to  the  recently  concluded  interregional  preparatory 
meeting for the Third International Conference on the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States, noted:
“Debt sustainability is a critical issue not only 
for Barbados, but for many of the SIDS... We must 
therefore  use  the  opportunity  provided  by  the 
Third  International  Conference  on  SIDS  to  both 
find and share solutions to this challenge, as it is 
a  major  constraint  to  SIDS  achieving  sustainable 
development.
“In  this  context,  it  is  imperative  that,  before 
we  meet  in  Samoa,  an  opportunity  be  provided 
to  fully  ventilate  this  matter.  In  this  regard,  the 
relevant  entity  of  the  United  Nations  responsible 
for coordinating SIDS issues may want to consider 
convening a meeting of the Finance and Economic 
Ministers of SIDS to discuss this issue and to put 
forward specific recommendations to be considered 
as  part  of  the  outcome  of  the  Third  International 
meeting on SIDS.”
I repeat that call on this body and commend it to the 
relevant  entity  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  act 
expeditiously on this proposal.
Another issue of concern to Barbados relates to the 
international financial-services sector. We believe that 
the sustainability of our development is being stymied 
by  efforts  to  undermine  this  very  important  sector, 
which  continues  to  provide  a  stable  and  substantial 
contribution  to  our  gross  domestic  product.  Barbados 
therefore  associates  itself  with  the  comments  of  the 
Right Honourable Perry Christie, Prime Minister of the 
Bahamas, in his address to the General Assembly (see 
A/68/PV.19). We are a well-regulated jurisdiction which 
has  sought  at  all  times  to  comply  with  international 
rules and best practice, and it is our intention to operate 
within  the  established  international  norms  that  have 
guided this sector to date.
In  1994,  Barbados  was  honoured  to  host  the  first 
United  Nations  Global  Conference  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States.  At 
that  time,  we  were  optimistic  that  the  international 
community’s recognition of the inherent vulnerabilities 
of  small  States  would  lead  to  real  progress  in  the 
development of SIDS. However, the five-year review of 
the Mauritius Strategy in 2010 revealed that
“[s]mall 
island  developing  States  have  made 
less  progress  than  most  other  groupings,  or  even 
regressed, in economic terms, especially in terms 
of  poverty  reduction  and  debt  sustainability” 
(resolution 65/2, para. 5).
Despite  this,  Barbados  remains  committed  to  the 
process  to  advance  the  sustainable  development  of 
SIDS.
As you are aware, Mr. President, Barbados attaches 
great importance to sustainable development in all its 
dimensions.  We  believe  that  the  theme  for  this  year’s 
session — “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage” — is thus both timely and important. Such 
an agenda must recognize the importance of addressing 
the very specific needs of the Members of the United 
Nations. I speak therefore from the perspective of SIDS.
Barbados believes that the post-2015 development 
agenda should involve commitments to the eradication 
of  poverty  and  hunger;  environmental  sustainability, 
with a strong emphasis on coastal and marine resources; 
the development of sustainable and accessible renewable 
energy  technologies;  the  pursuit  of  a  sustainable 
agriculture agenda, in tandem with food and nutrition 
security; gender equality and women’s empowerment; 
and youth development, education and employment.
We  also  call  for  emphasis  on  the  inclusion  of 
vulnerable groups, including persons with disabilities; 
the  requisite  means  of  implementation,  including 
capacity-building, 
trade  and 
technical  cooperation;  the  integration  of  appropriate 
systems for accountability, monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting;  and  good  governance,  respect  for  human 
rights, and the rule of law.
technology 
transfer, 
This  is  not  a  mere  shopping  list.  It  reflects  the 
understanding  that  all  these  issues  are  inextricably 
linked.  They  represent  challenges  or  problems  that 
must  be  tackled  simultaneously,  if  we  are  to  achieve 
13-48953
9/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
sustainable development. These cannot be addressed in 
a silo-like manner.
of Barbados referred to this recently as building SIDS 
collectivity.
The 
importance  of  a  policy  of  sustainable 
development  can  therefore  not  be  understated.  It 
is  a  matter  of  survival.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  the 
Government  of  Barbados  has  envisioned  the  building 
of  a  green  economy  as  its  strategy  for  advancing  its 
sustainable development. As Prime Minister Freundel 
Stuart indicated in the foreword to the Green Economy: 
Scoping Study Synthesis Report on Barbados,
“the  Green  Economy  debate  recognizes  our 
structural  vulnerabilities,  offers  a  model  to  assist 
us in further realizing our sustainable development 
aspirations,  and  creates  the  institutional  platform 
that  would  enable  us  to  participate  in  innovative 
partnerships  in  the  fight  to  save  our  planet, 
against  mounting  unsustainable  consumption  and 
production patterns”.
Our  situation  as  a  special  case  for  development 
holds  as  true  today  as  it  did  more  than  20  years  ago, 
when  the  United  Nations  system  first  acknowledged 
our  vulnerabilities  and  our  special  link  to  ocean 
resources.  In  the  case  of  Barbados,  we  are  of  the 
opinion that a green economy is inextricably linked to 
our development and as such should not be lost in this 
very important discussion.
Over the past several months, increasing attention 
has  been  focused  on  the  preparatory  process  for  the 
Third  International  Conference  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  SIDS,  to  be  held  in  Samoa  in  2014. 
Three  regional  preparatory  meetings  in  the  various 
SIDS  regions  were  convened  in  July.  Members  may 
recall  that  the  interregional  meeting  was  held  in  my 
country,  Barbados,  the  birthplace  of  the  Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island Developing States — the Barbados Programme 
of Action.
to 
importance 
Barbados  attaches  great 
the 
preparatory process for the Samoa Conference. As we 
take stock after almost 20 years of the implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  and  10  years  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  its  further  implementation, 
we  wish  to  emphasize  that  this  process  is  an  integral 
part  of  the  overall  post-2015  development  agenda. 
This preparatory process can strengthen the collective 
action of SIDS in addressing their vulnerabilities and 
special development challenges. Prime Minister Stuart 
the 
The  support  of 
international  community 
must  underpin  this  concept  of  SIDS  collectivity 
intraregional 
by  strengthening 
the  various 
collaboration  between  SIDS 
SIDS 
on 
institution-building, including the establishment of an 
appropriate  institutional  mechanism  to  facilitate,  in 
particular, intraregional collaboration among SIDS.
interregional  and 
and 
increasing 
emphasis 
regions, 
and 
Credence is given to this approach by the Secretary-
General’s  High-level  Panel  on  Global  Sustainability, 
whose report (see A/66/700) stressed that the building 
of  effective  institutional  governance  at  the  local, 
national,  regional  and  global  levels  is  essential  for 
achieving sustainable development, facilitating greater 
utilization  of  science  and  technology  to  help  address 
many  of  the  issues  being  faced  by  our  young  people 
in  strengthening  the  interface  between  youth  talent, 
innovation  and  entrepreneurship,  and  speaking  with 
one voice at the international level on issues impacting 
SIDS sustainable development.
for 
partnerships 
the  existing 
Barbados  believes  firmly  that  South-South  and 
triangular  cooperation  must  be  part  of  any  effort 
to  reform 
international  development 
cooperation  architecture  and  to  build  more  inclusive 
global 
development 
cooperation. We possess a wealth of experience in areas 
that we can share with developing and middle-income 
countries,  including  education  and  training,  health 
care,  social  partnering,  clean  -nergy  policies  and 
technologies,  environmental  protection, 
including 
coastal conservation, and the provision of social safety 
nets.
effective 
Like  other  SIDS,  however,  we  are  constrained 
by  limited  financial  resources  and  the  persistent  and 
prolonged  global  financial  crisis,  which  continue  to 
have  a  negative  impact  on  resource  mobilization  and 
financial  flows  to  developing  countries.  Barbados 
supports  the  observation  made  by  the  United  Nations 
Office for South-South Cooperation, that there is a need 
to  give  the  global  South  the  incentive  to  invest  more 
in  multilateral  forms  of  South-South  cooperation.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  formation  of  partnerships  with 
the  private  sector,  international  organizations,  donors 
and civil society organizations specifically designed to 
better facilitate such South-South cooperation.
10/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
transparency 
in 
the  method  employed 
There  is  a  clear  need  for  greater  equity,  fairness 
and 
to 
determine  socioeconomic  classifications  and  resource 
allocation. The persistent use of arbitrarily determined 
international classification and ratings systems that are 
based on gross domestic product per capita and other 
narrow criteria must be expanded in scope to take into 
account meaningful variables such as vulnerability.
In  this  context,  we  refer  again  to  the  observation 
by  the  Secretary-General  that  gross  domestic  product 
per  capita  on  its  own  is  an  inadequate  indicator.  We 
also  applaud  the  useful  research  being  conducted  on 
vulnerability indices and other measures beyond gross 
domestic product by bodies such as the Commonwealth, 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean,  and  the  United  Nations  Statistical 
Commission.  Barbados  will  continue  its  advocacy  on 
this issue.
Barbados  is  not  unique.  Like  other  SIDS,  we 
recognize  that  our  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable 
development  must  of  necessity  incorporate  delivery 
modalities  encompassing  finance,  good  governance, 
development  cooperation,  trade  capacity-building  and 
institutional strengthening. Barbados therefore reminds 
this body that we must foster strong partnerships if we 
are to craft effective and truly lasting global solutions.
We call on Member States to revisit the Small Island 
Developing States Technical Assistance Programme as 
a  means  of  enabling  the  transfer  of  skills,  knowledge 
and  experience  across  SIDS  and  the  three  SIDS 
regions.  We  hold  the  view  that  the  Programme  offers 
much  potential  for  enhancing  capacity  and  access  to 
SIDS-grown technologies and skill sets. The Technical 
Assistance  Programme  must  be  seen  as  an  important 
mechanism  for  advancing  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
for  a  disproportionately 
The  provision  of  free  health  care  for  Barbadian 
citizens has been a critical contributor to the high level 
of human development in Barbados. The treatment and 
prevention  of  chronic  non-communicable  diseases, 
however,  account 
large 
percentage  of  our  national  budget.  That  has  entailed 
the diversion of scarce resources that should have been 
devoted to achieving other development goals. Chronic 
non-communicable diseases constitute one of the major 
challenges to the sustainable development of Barbados, 
effectively  threatening  the  development  gains  that 
Barbados has made.
Our strong commitment to preventing and combating 
chronic  non-communicable  diseases  is  reflected  in 
strong  multi-stakeholder  partnerships,  including  the 
dedicated  engagement  of  civil  society.  Despite  the 
national  prioritization  of  non-communicable  diseases, 
the  focus  on  prevention,  and  the  implementation  of 
evidence-based  programmes,  a  developing  country 
like Barbados cannot, on its own, achieve its national 
objectives. International cooperation and assistance in 
this area are critical.
My country does not draw a dividing line between 
its domestic and foreign policies. We have been blessed 
with stable Governments. We have enjoyed a tradition 
of  constitutional  change  in  our  Governments  since 
independence.  As  a  nation,  we  have  striven  to  create 
a  just  society.  We  see  an  inextricable  link  between 
development  and  international  peace  and  security. 
Without  development,  there  can  be  no  international 
peace and security, and without international peace and 
security the development agenda will not succeed.
For  Barbados,  therefore,  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
national  and  international  levels  is  an  indispensable 
condition  for  sustainable  development.  Barbados  is 
deeply  concerned  by  the  number  of  national  regional 
and  international  conflicts  raging  throughout  the 
world.  We  are  yet  more  concerned  that  the  threshold 
of what constitutes an acceptable level of violence and 
acceptable levels of atrocity grows higher and higher. 
The findings of the United Nations inspection team that 
chemical weapons were used in Syria are alarming. My 
country believes that the perpetrators of these acts must 
be  brought  to  account.  Moreover,  we  believe  that  the 
international  community  must  work  in  good  faith  to 
find a political solution to the escalating and ongoing 
humanitarian crisis in Syria.
At  the  same  time,  the  international  community 
must  not  lose  sight  of  the  many  conflicts  and  acts  of 
terror that continue throughout the world. Against this 
background  my  delegation  wishes  to  extend  profound 
condolences to the Government and the people of Kenya 
on  the  recent  terrorist  attacks  that  were  perpetrated 
against the people of that country. As we have stated, 
there can be no justification for acts of terror.
In Barbados and the Caribbean, illicit small arms 
and light weapons are the weapons of mass destruction. 
Primarily linked to international drug trafficking and 
other  transnational  organized  crime,  the  proliferation 
of illicit small arms and light weapons in the Caribbean 
13-48953
11/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
exacts  a  heavy  toll  on  State  and  citizen  security  and 
impairs national development. For that reason, Barbados 
and CARICOM consistently argued for the elaboration 
of a robust, legally binding Arms Trade Treaty, which 
would set the highest common international standards 
for  regulating  the  transfer  of  conventional  arms. 
Barbados  is  pleased,  therefore,  to  be  among  those 
Member States that have signed the Arms Trade Treaty. 
It is our hope that the implementation of the Treaty will 
lead to a reduction in the flow of illicit small arms, light 
weapons and their ammunition, parts and components, 
thus contributing to a reduction in armed conflict and 
violence.
Our first Prime Minister, now a national hero, the 
Right  Excellent  Errol  Walton  Barrow,  in  his  maiden 
speech to this body on 9 December 1966, stated:
“We  have  no  quarrels  to  pursue  and  we 
particularly  insist  that  we  do  not  regard  any 
Member  State  as  our  natural  opponent...  We  will 
not regard any great Power as necessarily right in a 
given dispute unless we are convinced of this, yet 
at the same time, we will not view the great Powers 
with perennial suspicion.” (A/PV.1487, para. 78)
The United Nations was established in the aftermath 
of  the  Second  World  War  to  promote  international 
peace  and  security.  We  call  on  the  Security  Council 
to meet its obligations to the international community. 
It is clear that there cannot be business as usual while 
humanitarian crises continue to emerge and countless 
lives  continue  to  be  lost.  My  delegation  therefore 
remains  concerned  about 
the  economic  embargo 
that  continues  to  be  imposed  on  Cuba,  as  well  as  the 
extraterritorial  impact  that  it  continues  to  have  on 
countries inside and outside our region. We call for the 
ending  of  the  embargo  and  trust  that  it  will  soon  be 
ushered into the pages of history.
looks  forward 
to 
My  delegation 
the  further 
unfolding of the post-2015 development agenda during 
this sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly, and 
I wish you, Sir, every success as you guide the General 
Assembly in realizing an agenda that is inclusive and 
one that will redound to the benefit of all.
The President: I now give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr. Wunna Maung Lwin, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Mr. Lwin (Myanmar): At the outset, I should like 
to  extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  assure  you  of  the  full 
support  and  cooperation  of  the  Myanmar  delegation. 
I  am  confident  that  your  diplomatic  skills  and  vast 
knowledge will guide our deliberations to a successful 
conclusion. I should also like to pay special tribute to 
your predecessor, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for a job well done 
in  guiding  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.
We  are  fast  approaching  the  deadline  for  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  With  fewer  than 
850 days to go, there is now a sense of urgency to look 
back  on  our  past  journey  and  chart  the  way  forward. 
Despite the laudable advances made in meeting several 
of  the  global  Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG) 
targets in the past 13 years, there remain inequality and 
variations  in  achievement  across  regions  and  within 
countries.  Therefore,  we  need  to  intensify  our  efforts 
and  accelerate  actions  towards  the  full  realization  of 
the MDGs in the remaining short span of time.
In many developing countries, especially the least 
developed  ones,  a  large  proportion  of  the  population 
is  still  grappling  with  poverty,  hunger,  economic  and 
social  disparity,  and  environmental  degradation.  It 
is  therefore  most  pertinent  and  timely  for  the  United 
Nations  to  set  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  For 
its part, Myanmar has been exerting relentless efforts to 
raise the socioeconomic conditions of its people, with 
poverty alleviation as the core priority of the national 
economic strategy, commensurate with the MDGs.
My delegation adds its voice to that of the Group 
of 77 in calls to address the key implementation gaps 
of  the  MDGs  and  the  poverty  agenda  over  the  next 
two  years.  In  this  regard,  national  efforts  should  be 
assisted  by  international  support  and  an  enabling 
environment.  The  role  of  the  global  partnership  for 
development  must  also  be  strengthened.  Achieving 
inclusive  and  sustainable  development  will  be  one  of 
the most paramount challenges of this century for the 
United Nations. Therefore my delegation welcomes the 
establishment  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  High-
Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development.
This  year,  Myanmar  celebrates  the  sixty-fourth 
anniversary  of  its  membership  in  the  family  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
system  remains  relevant  and  important  in  the  current 
international situation. In this age fraught with global 
challenges,  the  United  Nations  is  more  essential  than 
12/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
ever.  We  have  trust  in  the  world  body’s  capacity  and 
capability to maintain international peace and security, 
to safeguard fundamental human rights, and to promote 
economic and social development. Therefore, Myanmar 
has always cooperated with the United Nations in good 
faith.
As  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  is  the 
cornerstone  of  our  foreign  policy,  we  have  always 
strictly abided by the decisions and resolutions of the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
should be more democratic, representative and effective 
in order to face the security and economic challenges in 
many parts of the world.
The  continued  existence  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  particularly  nuclear  weapons,  poses  the 
greatest  threat  to  humankind.  Myanmar  is  therefore 
actively  pursuing  the  cause  of  nuclear  disarmament 
and  nuclear  non-proliferation  in  international  forums. 
One  testimony  of  our  aspiration  is  demonstrated  by 
the  annual  resolution  on  nuclear  disarmament  that 
our  delegation  has  submitted  since  1995.  Through 
that  resolution  we  have  been  calling  on  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  cease  immediately  the  qualitative 
improvement, development, production and stockpiling 
of  nuclear  weapons  with  a  view  to  taking  measures 
leading  to  their  total  elimination  within  a  specified 
framework of time.
In  that  firm  belief,  the  Government  of  Myanmar 
signed  the  additional  protocol  to  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  safeguards  agreement  on  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  
on  17  September.  That  is  yet  another  significant 
development testifying to our commitment to the goals 
of nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation.
On 
the  domestic  front, 
Myanmar  fully  subscribes  to  the  fundamental 
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  as 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Accordingly,  Myanmar  has  been  contributing  its  fair 
share to regional and international peace and security.
the  Government  of 
President  U  Thein  Sein  has  been  undertaking 
unprecedented  wide-ranging  political  and  economic 
reforms  over  the  past  two  and  a  half  years.  The 
Government  has  dedicated  its  efforts  to  fulfilling  the 
twin  objectives  inspired  by  the  people:  to  establish 
peace,  stability  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  to  advance 
socioeconomic development of the lives of the people.
The  first  component  of  the  reform  was  political 
transformation.  The  objective  was  to  bring  about 
peace, stability, national unity and reconciliation. Now 
we  have  been  able  to  establish  a  firm  foundation  for 
building a democratic society. Political space has been 
created  for  every  stakeholder,  and  the  all-inclusive 
political system is in place. The legislative bodies are 
also functioning well, in an active and vibrant manner. 
Numerous pieces of legislation have been enacted to the 
benefit  of  the  people,  including  new  laws  permitting 
greater freedom of the press, speech and association. A 
series of amnesties have been granted which have set 
free thousands of prisoners. We are speedily working 
through  a  screening  mechanism  to  ensure  that  no 
prisoner of conscience will remain in prison by the end 
of the year.
The emergence of civil societies has also contributed 
to  strengthening  democratic  values  and  practices.  We 
have now been able to nurture a new culture of dialogue 
and  accommodation  among  people  of  differing  views 
and  beliefs.  We  are  also  taking  steps  to  establish  the 
rule of law, good governance and clean government.
We have also made tangible progress in our efforts 
towards  national  reconciliation.  The  Government’s 
peace overtures have led to ceasefire agreements with 
all armed groups, for the first time in more than 60 years. 
We hope that we will be able to celebrate the signing of 
a nationwide ceasefire agreement in Nay Pyi Taw very 
soon.  We  are  optimistic  that  we  will  be  able  to  start 
a new round of political dialogue at the Union central 
level in the near future to strike a comprehensive and 
lasting peace agreement. We have no illusion that the 
next step will be easy, but we are determined to pursue 
this path for the sake of our people, as they have for so 
long deserved.
The  hard-won  peace  and  the  success  of  the 
democratic  transformation  will  not  be  realistic  or 
sustainable until and unless we deliver on the economic 
and  social  needs  of  the  people.  Therefore,  as  the 
second  component  of  reform,  we  have  opened  up  the 
economy  through  economic  liberalization,  financial 
reform,  inviting  foreign  investment,  a  people-centred 
development  approach,  rural  development,  poverty 
alleviation  and  equitable  development.  We  have 
also  created  an  investor-friendly  environment.  The 
Government is focusing on poverty alleviation and rural 
development.  We  have  aimed  at  reducing  the  current 
poverty rate from 26 per cent to 16 per cent by 2015, as 
prescribed in the Millennium Development Goals.
13-48953
13/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
Recently,  the  Government  turned  its  focus  to 
private-sector development as another wave of reform. 
At this stage, the Government is strongly emphasizing 
the improvement of the institutional infrastructure and 
regulatory framework so as to facilitate business, trade 
and investment.
We are truly grateful to the international community 
for  its  invaluable  support  and  encouragement  in  our 
democratic  transition  as  well  as  in  our  efforts  for  the 
socioeconomic development of the people of Myanmar. 
We welcome responsible trade and investment that will 
transfer technology to develop our economy, to create 
jobs and to lift our people from poverty. We are now 
taking the necessary steps to become a signatory to the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. We will 
try our best to ensure that no one from the communities 
or  our  national  ethnic  groups  will  be  left  behind  and 
excluded  from  enjoying  the  fruits  of  our  reforms  and 
the exciting life of the nation.
Myanmar  is  a  multiracial  and  multifaith  nation. 
Various  ethnic  populations  with  the  world’s  four 
great  religions  —  Buddhists,  Christians,  Muslims 
and Hindus — have been living side by side in peace 
and  harmony  as  fellow  citizens  of  Myanmar.  The 
Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
also designates the four religions as officially recognized 
faiths of the country. There are always people who wish 
to rock the boat. We will not let anyone take advantage 
of  political  openness  to  instigate  violence  among  the 
different  ethnic  or  religious  communities.  President 
U  Thein  Sein  has  clearly  stated  that  the  Government 
will take a zero-tolerance approach to anyone fuelling 
ethnic hatred.
The  Government  has  been  making  serious 
efforts  to  resolve  the  problem  through  short-term 
and  long-term  plans.  These  include  our  extensive 
efforts,  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  and 
humanitarian  non-governmental  organizations, 
to 
improve  the  living  conditions  and  livelihoods  of  all 
affected peoples, without discrimination. Parallel with 
these  efforts,  the  Government  is  also  encouraging 
interfaith dialogues across the country with a view to 
promoting understanding and trust among the different 
communities. 
the  National  Human 
Rights  Commission,  an  independent  human  rights 
body of Myanmar, has also been working closely and 
intensively  with  domestic  civil  society  organizations, 
interfaith groups and regional and international human 
In  addition, 
rights bodies for the promotion and protection of human 
rights in the country.
Our  reform  process  is  still  nascent  and  at  a 
sensitive stage where there is little room for error. With 
this  in  mind,  the  President  has  publicly  emphasized 
the  need  for  everyone  to  refrain  from  doing  anything 
that  could  jeopardize  Myanmar’s  peaceful  transition. 
While undertaking political and other reform processes 
domestically, we have also been able to reach out to the 
international  community.  The  overwhelming  support 
that we have received from the international community 
and the United Nations has contributed significantly to 
the transition efforts in the country.
Myanmar is ready to take over the chairmanship of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) 
in 2014 for the very first time since the country joined 
the  Organization  in  1997.  We  regard  this  opportunity 
as a great honour. We shall be working closely with our 
fellow  ASEAN  members  and  with  ASEAN  dialogue 
partners in discharging this important responsibility so 
as to move forward in unity to a peaceful and prosperous 
community.
In 
transition 
the  process  of  Myanmar’s 
to 
democracy,  expectations  are  high  within  the  country 
as  well  as  in  the  international  community.  For  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Myanmar,  the  task  is 
daunting. There are many challenges ahead. We are still 
in a critical transition period. However, we are resolute 
in marching forward along our chosen path. There will 
be no turning back. But we will not take anything for 
granted.  It  is  incumbent  upon  the  Government  and 
people of Myanmar to be vigilant at all times so that we 
do not fall into the trap of the detractors of the reform 
process.
We need the continued support and encouragement 
of  the  international  community.  We  always  welcome 
friendly  and  constructive  advice  and  the  helping 
hands  of  friends  far  and  near  in  our  nation-building 
process.  However,  we  are  fully  cognizant  of  the  fact 
that  ultimately  the  people  Myanmar  themselves  are 
responsible for deciding their own destiny and shaping 
their own future.
The  Government  of  President  U  Thein  Sein  is 
laying  a  solid  foundation  for  democracy,  peace  and 
development  for  the  people  of  Myanmar.  Observers 
have applauded Myanmar’s transition to democracy as 
one of the most promising efforts of democratization in 
the world today. The success we have achieved so far on 
14/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
the road to democracy has been made possible through 
the  joint  efforts  of  the  leadership  and  the  people  of 
Myanmar,  driven  by  a  strong  and  genuine  desire  to 
change.
The road ahead is long and full of challenges. We 
will  spare  no  effort  to  overcome  any  challenges  and 
move ahead on the journey on which we have set out to 
build a nation of peace, democracy and prosperity. As 
we  continue  our  journey  we  need  the  understanding, 
continued  encouragement  and  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community.  We  will 
never lose sight of our goals, and we are determined to 
fulfil the aspirations of the people of Myanmar.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Lyonpo  Rinzin  Dorje,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Mr. Dorje (Bhutan): I bring to you, Mr. President, 
and  through  you  to  all  representatives  the  warm 
greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Khesar 
Namgyel  Wangchuck.  Allow  me  also  to  congratulate 
you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I assure 
you of my delegation’s full support and cooperation as 
you steer the important work of this session.
I  am  deeply  honoured  to  have  the  opportunity  to 
address the Assembly for the first time. I do so owing 
to the mandate accorded by the people of Bhutan to the 
People’s Democratic Party at the second parliamentary 
elections held this summer.
The  second  parliamentary  elections  were  yet 
another milestone on the path of democracy that Bhutan 
chose to undertake five years ago. In 2008 there were 
two political parties, whereas four parties contested this 
year’s elections. The people of Bhutan voted for change 
and  ushered  in  a  new  Government.  These,  I  believe, 
are  signs  of  a  vibrant  democracy  enabling  the  people 
of Bhutan to exercise their will through the ballot box.
We  know  that  democracy  needs  to  go  beyond 
elections.  We  will  therefore  continually  work  to 
strengthen democratic institutions, the rule of law, an 
independent judiciary, a vibrant civil society, an open 
and free media and, above all, a democratic culture that 
enables  people  to  voice  their  aspirations  and  to  live 
with  dignity,  equality  and  prosperity.  As  we  embark 
on a new phase in our relatively young democracy, we 
do  so  in  full  confidence  that  democracy  in  Bhutan  is 
irreversible and on a firm footing. In this journey, we 
count on the support of our friends and the international 
community.
We meet at a time of extraordinary changes. While 
some have been able to achieve tremendous economic 
growth  and  prosperity,  millions  of  people  continue 
to  languish  in  the  inhuman  depths  of  poverty.  Our 
relentless  drive  for  economic  growth  has  come  at  the 
cost  of  our  environment.  The  climate  is  changing. 
Natural  disasters  hit  us  with  increasing  frequency 
and intensity. The natural question then is, how do we 
advance  economic  growth,  promote  societal  progress 
and prosperity within the confines of nature? How do 
we lift the millions of people out of the vicious circle of 
poverty? How can we ensure that we leave a planet safe 
and secure for our children and grandchildren?
These, I believe, are the key questions that confront 
us  all.  Although  we  come  from  different  parts  of  the 
globe,  with  our  unique  historical  backgrounds  and 
cultural experiences, we are bound by our shared future. 
In  today’s  interconnected  and  globalized  world,  we 
can prevail only if we come together as global citizens 
and work to find solutions for the sake of our common 
future.  In  this  endeavour,  Mr.  President,  as  you  have 
rightly stated, failure is not an option.
My delegation welcomes the theme “The post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage” for this general 
debate.  The  question  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda is important, especially for the least developed 
and landlocked countries, which in many respects have 
the  most  at  stake.  It  presents  the  opportunity  for  all 
countries  to  share  their  experiences  and  the  kind  of 
development agenda that they would like to see in the 
post-2015 era.
As  we  set  the  stage  for  a  development  agenda 
beyond  2015,  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
52/2)  provides  a  strong  foundation.  In  our  search  for 
a  new  development  agenda  we  must  not  forget  the 
important principles set out in the Declaration, but must 
emphasize their continued relevance. The Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  inspired  nations  and  a 
whole generation to improve the lives of many people by 
creating synergies between nations and among people. 
All efforts must be made to accelerate the realization of 
the MDGs during their last mile.
The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288,  annex)  also  outlined  important  principles  on 
which  the  post-2015  development  agenda  should  be 
13-48953
15/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
built. These principles must guide our efforts to come 
up  with  a  holistic  and  transformative  development 
agenda  that  puts  people  at  the  centre  of  development 
and  brings  about  shared  prosperity  and  happiness  to 
all.  Within  this  broader  vision,  poverty  eradication 
must form a central theme of the post-2015 agenda. For 
Bhutan, the alleviation of poverty remains a challenge 
and  features  as  a  key  priority  in  the  current  eleventh 
five-year development plan.
Equally  important  is  the  need  to  bring  about 
inclusive  development,  which  is  one  of  the  priority 
objectives  of 
the  Royal  Government  of  Bhutan. 
Targeted  interventions  are  being  planned  to  promote 
the  livelihoods  of  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable 
communities in Bhutan.
The  empowerment  of  women  should  constitute 
one  of  the  main  building  blocks  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda. Any development agenda will fall 
short if it does not include the empowerment of women 
as a key component.
Issues  related  to  youth  and  to  providing  gainful 
employment  to  a  growing  population  is  one  of  the 
critical  challenges  that  my  country  continues  to  face. 
It  is  therefore  vitally  important  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  address  the  issues  of  youth,  as 
they are the key stakeholders of that era.
I  cannot  overemphasize  the  importance  of  a 
strong  means  of  implementation  in  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Without  it,  the  capacity  of 
developing and least developed countries to realize the 
post-2015  development  priorities  will  remain  severely 
challenged.  At  the  intergovernmental  level,  Bhutan 
will continue its close engagement in the work of the 
Open  Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, on which it is pleased to serve as a member. We 
look forward to contributing to the intergovernmental 
negotiations  towards  the  elaboration  of  a  single  post-
2015 development agenda.
The subject of development inevitably leads me to 
refer to my country’s experience, in which it is guided 
by  the  development  philosophy  of  Gross  National 
Happiness,  a  vision  that  has  given  character  to  my 
country.  Happiness  and  development  have  come  to 
mean many things, and there are indeed many experts 
and a rich body of literature on the subject. This body 
also  adopted  resolution  65/309,  on  happiness,  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session,  and  resolution  66/281  proclaiming 
20 March as the International Day of Happiness, at its 
sixty-sixth session.
Happiness as a development policy must relate to 
individuals as well as to Governments. It is the sacred 
responsibility of Governments to ensure that conditions 
are  created  for  its  citizens  to  pursue  their  individual 
happiness within the larger aspirations of the country. 
All our achievements, including the peaceful transition 
to a democracy in 2008, as well as the progress realized 
in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, have 
been  as  a  result  of  embarking  on  a  people-centred 
development approach.
Encouraged  by  our  positive  national  experience, 
Bhutan  has  facilitated  efforts  to  elaborate  a  holistic 
approach  to  development.  We  intend  to  share  the 
findings with Member States and the wider international 
community  at  an  appropriate  time.  We  hope  that  this 
modest contribution will serve as a useful input to the 
ongoing  discussions  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.
While Bhutan has made significant socioeconomic 
progress, we face many challenges and vulnerabilities, 
being both a landlocked and a least developed country. 
Our  economy  remains  import-driven  and  dependent 
on  a  single  export  commodity.  Poverty,  youth 
unemployment,  natural  disasters  and  vulnerability  to 
adverse  impacts  of  climate  change,  including  glacial 
lake outburst floods, pose challenges. We will therefore 
continue to count on external support and assistance as 
we work towards achieving our long-cherished goal of 
self-reliance  and  graduation  from  the  least  developed 
country category.
We recognize that a vibrant democracy should be 
built on a strong economy, which is essential to bring 
about improvement in the lives of the people. Therefore, 
in the eleventh Five-Year Development Plan, the main 
thrust  will  be  to  promote  prosperity  for  all  through 
inclusive 
social  development,  accelerated  green 
economic development and infrastructure development.
The  United  Nations,  with  its  global  scope  and 
mandate, remains the only universal organization that 
can forge a global coordinated response to the pressing 
challenges in areas ranging from peace and security to 
development. The challenges of our times are, however, 
testing the United Nations and the resolve of its Member 
States to work together. Every effort must be made to 
strengthen the role and efficacy of a United Nations that 
is just, democratic and representative and allows space 
16/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
for its Members, including the smallest, to participate 
fully in its work. That is the key to the legitimacy of an 
effective multilateral system.
We remain hopeful that under your able leadership, 
Sir, the sixty-eighth session will further advance work 
on  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  The  General 
Assembly must be revitalized and its role strengthened. 
The  membership  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the 
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories  must 
be  expanded  to  bring  it  into  line  with  contemporary 
realities and to make the Council a more representative 
body.
These  are  challenging  times  indeed.  It  falls  upon 
us to seek the wisdom of those who created this great 
institution to work together in the spirit of international 
cooperation in solving international problems. We have 
the  opportunity  not  only  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
United Nations and advance multilateralism, but also to 
define a holistic development agenda that will respond 
to the universal aspiration for happiness.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Winston  Lackin,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Suriname.
Mr. Lackin (Suriname): Allow me at the outset, on 
behalf of the President of the Republic of Suriname, His 
Excellency Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, and the people 
and  the  Government  of  Suriname,  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  well-deserved  election. 
With your election you bring honour to your country, 
Antigua and Barbuda, and to the Caribbean. With your 
background  in  sustainable  development,  you  are  well 
prepared to lead us in our deliberations on this year’s 
theme, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting the 
stage”. I assure you of the support and cooperation of 
Suriname during your presidency.
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his 
leadership  during  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly. Furthermore, I commend Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his management of the United 
Nations  with  regard  to  peace  and  security  in  various 
parts of the globe.
Setting a new stage urgently requires much effort 
at  the  national  as  well  as  the  international  level  to 
achieve the ultimate goal of improving the standard of 
living of our peoples and bringing about the sustainable 
development  of  our  countries.  The  Millennium 
Development Goals are an important first step towards 
addressing some of the worst socioeconomic conditions 
facing  approximately  40  per  cent  of  humankind, 
targeted as they are at reducing the worst manifestations 
of underdevelopment.
In  our  view,  the  success  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals depends on two sets of simultaneous 
actions: first, a reorientation of national responsibilities; 
and, second, of equal importance, the reorientation of 
the  international  community.  Such  reorientation  will 
enable  us  to  chart  a  more  meaningful  path  towards 
meeting  the  targets  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and moving towards the post-2015 Development 
agenda.
That is particularly relevant if we take heed of the 
2013  report  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
which  reveals  some  rather  interesting  facts,  such  as: 
most  developing  countries  are  performing  well  in 
meeting  the  targets;  and  developed  countries,  which 
have committed themselves to Goal 8 by making their 
aid pledges viable and effective, are nevertheless well 
behind  in  their  general  performance  in  meeting  the 
targets.
Official  development  assistance  is  in  constant 
decline, and the agreements concluded in 2001 within 
the context of the World Trade Organization to improve 
access to international markets have been stalled during 
the  Doha  Round.  That  stalling  has  proved  to  be  so 
harmful that dealing with market access on behalf of the 
poorest nations has been left out of subsequent agendas. 
Furthermore,  as  we  all  know,  the  ongoing  financial 
and  economic  crisis  is  having  a  detrimental  impact 
on  developing  nations  because  official  development 
assistance is drastically declining.
Clearly,  a  number  of  large  developing  countries, 
mainly in Asia, as well as some countries endowed with 
natural  resources  in  Africa  and  South  America,  have 
made  substantial  economic  progress.  Their  statistics, 
however, should not blind us to the fact that inequality 
is  rampant  and  that  almost  1.2  billion  people  are  still 
living  in  extreme  poverty  and  do  not  have  access  to 
affordable and adequate health services, while millions 
of  children  are  still  denied  their  right  to  primary 
education.
We have learned the important lesson that developing 
countries are obliged to undertake adequate measures 
to strengthen economic interactions among themselves 
in addition to ties with their traditional trading partners 
13-48953
17/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
in the North. We must give substance to South-South 
cooperation.  That  is  an  important  consideration  for 
setting a new stage for global sustainable development. 
In this context, foreign direct investment is considered 
to be a factor of vital importance.
It is encouraging to note that a number of countries, 
including  my  own,  Suriname,  have  been  upgraded 
from  low-income  status  to  middle-income  status  by 
international financial institutions and United Nations 
agencies. Our efforts to develop prudent macroeconomic 
and  appropriate  fiscal  policies,  combined  with  our 
initiatives to diversify our economy, and the sacrifices 
borne by our people, have led to this improved status. 
Applying per capita income as the major indicator for 
determining  our  development  status  has,  however, 
manoeuvred  us  into  a  position  where  we  have  lost 
access to the necessary concessional loans and grants. 
The conclusion can be drawn that our people are being 
punished  for  their  ability  to  overcome  some  of  the 
obstacles that have made them less fortunate in the past.
Within this interdependent world, we will continue 
to  build  on  our  own  strength  as  the  main  driving 
force for the achievement of our development agenda. 
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  building  upon  national 
strengths,  within 
in 
subregional  and  regional  cooperation  frameworks,  is 
the  right  way  forward  to  finding  proper  solutions  for 
development. On the basis of what has been achieved 
at the regional level, a global approach might become 
more feasible.
the  context  of  participation 
Suriname shares the view that we should base the 
post-2015  development  agenda  on  a  people-centred 
approach, with a specific focus on the most vulnerable 
in  society,  in  particular,  women,  youth,  the  elderly 
and  people  with  disabilities.  In  so  doing  —   and  this 
we  emphasize  —  we  should  strike  the  right  balance 
between  our  positive  macroeconomic  situation  and  a 
micro situation that is in dire need of improvement.
We  are  in  the  course  of  developing  policies  and 
programmes  to  fight  non-communicable  diseases  that 
have led to decreased productivity. Non-communicable 
diseases have now become the leading cause of death in 
Suriname and in other countries in our region. There is 
special emphasis on improving education and bringing 
it closer to our socioeconomic reality. We intend to work 
more closely with relevant international organizations 
such  as  the  Pan  American  Health  Organization,  the 
World  Health  Organization,  UNESCO,  UNICEF  and 
others.
The  Government  also  attaches  great  importance 
to  issues  involving  young  people.  In  this  regard,  a 
large-scale  after-school  programme  with  the  aim  of 
enhancing better learning for youth deserves mention. 
The  successful  experiences  in  regional  cooperation 
mechanisms,  such  as 
the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM),  as  well  as  the  one  that  is 
being  considered  in  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations (UNASUR), are clear examples of how youth 
can contribute to the connectivity between peoples and 
the enhancement of unity.
the  one 
in 
Taking into account global processes and cognizant 
of  the  opportunities  and  challenges  from  CARICOM 
and  UNASUR,  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
should  emanate  from  an  inclusive,  intergovernmental 
process. That process should be directed towards: the 
continued  eradication  of  poverty;  a  people-centred 
approach, combining economic activity with the social 
need for education and health care, thereby promoting 
the welfare and well-being of all; and the integration of 
economic and social action and strengthening of human 
capital.
the  stage 
In  setting 
Global  warming  has  a  direct  negative  impact  on 
the  development  of  small  island  developing  States 
and  low-lying  coastal  States,  including  Suriname. 
Suriname shares its grave concern regarding the state 
of  the  global  climate  and  the  stalled  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  process. 
The  Government  of  Suriname  strongly  recommends 
that  the  General  Assembly  face  these  challenges  by 
making them part of the post-2015 development agenda.
for  development  goals 
beyond  2015,  we  cannot  ignore  the  various  threats  to 
international  peace.  International  peace,  security  and 
human rights are indispensable in creating an enabling 
environment  for  sustainable  development.  Suriname 
is  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  national  sovereignty 
and  national  security  are  seriously  affected  by  the 
indiscriminate  use  of  violence  in  fighting  terrorism 
and  other  forms  of  transnational  organized  crime. 
Challenges  related  to  armed  conflicts,  poverty,  food, 
the  environment,  education,  public  health,  migration 
and  energy  require  increased  collaboration.  In  this 
respect, partnership among Governments, international 
and regional organizations and civil society is a must. 
We applaud the South American and Caribbean nations 
18/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
for  their  efforts  towards  regional  peace  and  stability. 
Their willingness and capacity for further dialogue and 
persuasion is a better way to achieve and maintain peace 
than the use of violence and military intervention.
Allow  me  to  begin  by  expressing  our  solidarity 
with  the  people  of  Kenya,  while  condemning  in  the 
strongest terms the cowardly acts of terrorism that were 
seen last week.
We are proud to belong to a region that has declared 
itself a nuclear-weapon-free zone.
We express the hope that the two-State solution to 
the Palestinian-Israeli conflict will gain more substance, 
allowing the peoples of both countries the prospect of 
peace and prosperity. Suriname maintains the position 
that the multilateral process within the United Nations 
should prevail in the search for a peaceful solution for 
the crisis in Syria.
The  Cuban  people  have  the  right  to  participate 
as full members in all regional organizations, and we 
strongly  urge  that  all  obstacles  that  have  prevented 
their full participation so far be removed, including the 
outdated  and  inhuman  unilateral  economic,  financial 
and commercial embargo.
With  regard 
to 
the  Republic  of  Haiti, 
the 
international  community  tends  to  lose  attention  for 
the  necessary  follow-up  activities  to  get  Haiti  back 
on its feet. Once again we call upon the international 
community to fulfil its commitments.
In  closing,  I  take  advantage  of  this  opportunity 
to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  exactly  30  days  ago, 
my  country,  Suriname,  took  over  the  pro  tempore 
presidency  of  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations, 
a  young  and  vibrant  regional  body.  We  pledge  that 
Suriname will, during its presidency, further the goals 
of  UNASUR  and  contribute  to  international  peace, 
security and sustainable development.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Nickolas  Steele,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and International Business of Grenada.
Mr. Steele (Grenada): I wish to extend my sincere 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-eighth 
session.  The  fact  that  you  were  elected  by  consensus 
speaks  in  unequivocal  terms  of  the  high  esteem  in 
which you are held by your colleagues and the respect 
that  you  command  in  this  forum.  I  am  confident  that 
your vast practical experience at the multilateral level 
will serve you in good stead as you guide this session 
to a fruitful outcome. In the same breath, I pay tribute 
to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  for  his  astute 
stewardship at the previous session.
I thank you, Sir, for selecting as the theme for this 
session  “The  post-2015  development  agenda:  setting 
the  stage”,  which,  in  my  delegation’s  view,  embodies 
the  fundamental  concerns  of  all  countries,  but  will 
find particular resonance with small island developing 
States (SIDS) like Grenada. This is an area where the 
multilateral system must demonstrate its effectiveness 
not only to improve the lives of ordinary citizens but also 
to maintain confidence in our multilateral institutions. 
We look forward to key performance indicators linked 
to  tangible  outcomes,  rather  than  more  analysis  and 
more reports.
Grenada  endorses  the  call  made  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  for 
the future we want. In that context, we must build on 
the  successes  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  Agenda  21.  Indeed,  for  a  post-2015  development 
agenda we welcome a framework that goes beyond gross 
domestic product and recognizes the assets of natural 
capital. Grenada encourages the international financial 
institutions to go even further by also recognizing the 
liabilities  associated  with  natural  disasters  caused  by 
climate  change.  Those  liabilities  underscore  the  need 
to reassess the basis on which small island developing 
States are graduated to middle-income status, thereby 
losing  access  to  concessionary  funding  that  is  sorely 
needed.
The  unilateral  graduation  of  many  small  island 
developing States to middle-income status is premature. 
I  therefore  reiterate  the  call  made  in  Agenda  21  for  a 
more  holistic  and  comprehensive  set  of  indicators  for 
classifying States. Grenada endorses support for low-
income and fragile economies. Moreover, it is clear that 
several of the SIDS newly promoted to middle-income 
status  continue  to  struggle  with  high  debt  burdens, 
which are worsened by climate change and high fossil-
fuel  import  bills.  Many  SIDS  also  struggle  with  low 
productivity and low levels of competitiveness and with 
severe  financial  constraints,  and,  in  some  cases,  they 
struggle with limited prospects for immediate growth.
The point is that per capita income used as a sole 
measure  without  the  context  of  climate  vulnerability 
does more harm than good. To illustrate that point, as 
damaging as Hurricanes Sandy and Katrina were to the 
13-48953
19/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
United States economy, the costs ran between 0.5 per 
cent and 2 per cent of the gross domestic product of the 
United States. That is in sharp contrast to the costs of 
between 20 per cent and 200 per cent of gross domestic 
product when hurricanes hit island economies.
Therefore,  Grenada  is  joining  with  other  SIDS  in 
urging the shareholders, the donors and the boards of 
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank 
to  translate  the  recognition  of  climate  vulnerability 
in  small  island  States  into  a  meaningful  package  of 
financial and official development assistance for SIDS.
The issue of the graduation of SIDS is an issue that 
has  been  raised  year  after  year.  Let  us  return  to  the 
General Assembly next year confident that progress on 
that matter has been made. In that regard, we wish to 
suggest for consideration during your presidency, Sir, a 
call for a substantive paper and a debate on the issue. 
Ideally, the outcomes of that debate should be provided 
as  an  input  towards  the  2014  third  International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  to  be 
hosted  by  Samoa,  and  as  an  input  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  debate  on  climate  change  scheduled  for 
September 2014.
Also  contributing  to  the  indebtedness  and  fiscal 
unsustainability of small island States are the volatility 
and  high  prices  for  fossil  fuels.  On  average,  small 
island  developing  States  are  paying  between  20  cents 
and  40  cents  per  kilowatt  hour  for  electricity,  some 
as high as $1. That contrasts with prices of 5 cents to 
15 cents in developed countries. We welcome, therefore, 
the initiative of the Alliance of Small Island States in 
establishing  the  SIDS  DOCK  Support  Programme. 
We  also  wish  to  express  gratitude  to  the  donors  and 
institutions for helping to facilitate that programme.
In addition, the Government of Grenada is taking 
major  steps  towards  creating  a  green  economy.  One 
of  the  priorities  for  Grenada’s  Prime  Minister,  The 
Right Honourable Keith Mitchell, is the dismantling of 
a  monopoly  that  is  contributing  to  high  energy  costs 
on the island of Grenada. The Government is seeking 
partners  to  help  create  a  level  playing  field,  which 
will  allow  many  more  private-sector  players  to  have 
a  role  in  innovative  and  substantive  power-generation 
solutions, while positioning Grenada as an exemplar for 
a sustainable planet.
Mr.  President,  as  you  have  chosen  the  theme  of 
sustainability  for  the  sixty-eighth  session,  so  too 
has  the  Government  of  Grenada  chosen  sustainable 
theme 
for 
the  organizing 
development  as 
the 
development  of  our  island  and  for  our  engagement 
with international partners. Grenada is a party to more 
than  40  multilateral  environmental  agreements.  The 
push to harmonize local laws with those international 
instruments is testament to Grenada’s commitment to 
that agenda. The reasons are clear, the causes of climate 
change and the impacts of climate change are negatively 
affecting Grenada’s ability to fulfil its social contract 
with its people, including its ability to fully deliver on 
the Millennium Development Goals.
So  far  I  have  spoken  only  about  economic 
sustainability  and  environmental  sustainability.  The 
third  pillar  of  sustainable  development  relates  to 
social  sustainability.  Grenada  is  a  society  in  which 
social  development  is  given  equal  weighting  with  the 
importance of investment and economic growth driven 
by the private sector. On 13 May, a mere three months 
after  assuming  office,  my  Government  ratified  the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination.  We  are  proceeding 
apace to ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with  Disabilities,  thus  demonstrating  that  Grenada  is 
committed to the removal of all forms of discrimination.
Grenada associates itself with efforts to dedicate the 
Caribbean region to the development of humanity. We 
also acknowledge that through the ages the Arab world 
has  contributed  enormously  to  the  world  of  science 
and mathematics, including the very numerals we use 
today.  We  see  a  modern  Arab  world  taking  positive 
steps to take the lead in developing breakthroughs on 
the key issues that confront our planet. We very much 
welcome initiatives such as Masdar City and the hosting 
of the International Renewable Energy Agency by the 
United  Arab  Emirates.  The  role  of  Qatar  in  hosting 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  is 
also noteworthy. Grenada joins with other countries in 
seeking to deepen our relationship with the countries of 
the Gulf Cooperation Council and places a high degree 
of importance on the peace and security of the region.
We are mindful that the region and the entire United 
Nations system have been seized of the issues of peace 
and security during United Nations Week. Grenada and 
many  countries  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
are  home  to  a  vibrant  and  entrepreneurial  diaspora 
from the Middle East, including people from Syria and 
Lebanon.  As  a  consequence,  Grenadian  citizens  are 
very concerned about the prospects for peace in Syria 
and the wider Middle East.
20/22 
13-48953
30/09/2013 
A/68/PV.22
Grenada  condemns,  in  the  most  vehement  terms, 
atrocities  and  crimes  against  humanity.  We  therefore 
believe that those responsible for the recent deadly use 
of chemical weapons in Syria must be held accountable 
by  the  international  community.  Moreover,  Grenada 
welcomes Security Council resolution 2118 (2013), on 
destroying Syria’s chemical weapons, and is encouraged 
by the commitment of the Syrian Government to comply 
with that resolution. More importantly, my delegation 
hopes that that breakthrough could be a stepping stone 
to the resolution of the already brutal and bloody civil 
war in Syria, which has been fuelled by conventional 
weapons.
On  3  June,  Grenada  joined  83  States  in  signing 
the Arms Trade Treaty on the very first morning that 
the  Treaty  was  opened  for  signature.  Work  is  already 
under way at the national level for the ratification of the 
Treaty, yet another signal of Grenada’s commitment to 
peace  and  security.  Moreover,  being  the  first  country 
to  accede  to  the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions, 
Grenada intends to use its experience to raise awareness 
on that particular matter, especially in the Americas.
On  the  question  of  Israeli-Palestinian  relations, 
Grenada remains convinced that a two-State solution is 
essential to ending that conflict and urges both parties 
to  conduct  the  present  round  of  negotiations  in  good 
faith. Grenada has good relations with the Government 
and  people  of  Israel  and  is  a  strong  advocate  for 
Israel’s  right  to  coexist  in  peace  with  its  neighbours. 
Furthermore,  Grenada  has  long  been  a  supporter 
of  the  people  of  Palestine.  Grenada  is  proud  to  have 
joined  with  neighbouring  countries  in  recognizing 
the  State  of  Palestine  and  in  signing  a  memorandum 
of  understanding  based  upon  friendship  and  upon  an 
understanding of a two-State solution.
As  with  most  of  the  world,  Grenada  looked  at 
the Arab Spring with great interest. The use of social 
media underscores the rise of technology as a tool for 
democracy  on  a  24/7  basis,  and  my  Prime  Minister 
places great importance on the use of information and 
communication  technologies  as  a  way  to  engage  our 
youth.  As  Egypt  goes  through  its  transition  and  its 
people’s call for freedom, dignity and social justice is 
heard, we encourage the leaders to learn the lessons of 
the  recent  past  and  respond  to  the  will  of  the  people 
in moving forward to a system of true democracy and 
respect  for  human  rights  and  inclusive  processes  for 
nation-building.
Finally,  my  delegation  uses  this  occasion  once 
more to express our solidarity with the Cuban people, 
who continue to suffer from an unnecessary economic, 
commercial and financial embargo that is a relic of the 
Cold War. Grenada once again calls on the United States 
of America to respect the views of the overwhelming 
majority  of  humanity  and  lift  the  onerous  measures 
imposed over five decades ago now.
We  support  your  theme,  Mr.  President,  for  this 
sixty-eighth session and wish to assure our partners that 
they can count on Grenada to be an active participant in 
these deliberations and in the implementation of their 
outcomes.
Grenada  is  open  for  business.  My  Government 
recognizes that a tried-and-tested route to sustainable 
development  involves  a  significant  component  of 
foreign  direct  investment.  Grenada  therefore  reaches 
out  and  seeks  new  friendships  while  maintaining  and 
building  upon  its  existing  and  long-standing  relations 
with many States members of this body.
In 2014 Grenada marks its fortieth anniversary of 
independence, and we invite each and every Member to 
celebrate with us on 7 February. We also see our 40 years 
as  a  milestone  that  recognizes  40  years  of  struggle, 
40 years of development. But also, more importantly, it 
marks 40 years of expectations not yet fully delivered 
upon. As such, my Government, under the leadership 
of our Prime Minister, sees this year as the year of less 
talk and more action, the year of tangible deliverables, 
and the year that great socioeconomic strides are made. 
We  have  a  young  and  vibrant  population  that  cannot 
wait  any  longer,  that  should  not  wait  any  longer,  and 
with the help and cooperation of our friends, new and 
old, we will deliver. They will not wait any longer.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate for this meeting.
Two Member States have asked to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first intervention and five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  The  Government  of 
Indonesia  strongly  rejects  the  statement  concerning 
the so-called issue of West Papua made by the Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, Mr. Moana Kalosil 
13-48953
21/22
A/68/PV.22 
30/09/2013
Carcasses,  in  the  General  Assembly  on  Saturday, 
28 September (see A/68/PV.18).
At  best,  such  a  statement  reflects  an  unfortunate 
lack of understanding of the basic facts on the historical 
role of the United Nations and the principled position 
of  the  international  community  at  large,  as  well  as 
current  developments  in  the  Indonesian  provinces  of 
Papua and West Papua. Worse still, it suggests an utter 
refusal  to  acknowledge  certain  basic  facts  on  matters 
relating to the aforementioned provinces and the efforts 
of the Indonesian Government and the local authorities 
to  promote  the  general  welfare  and  prosperity  of  the 
people in the two provinces.
We are only too conscious of the fact that internal 
political dynamics in Vanuatu have often played a role 
in raising the so-called issue of West Papua at the United 
Nations.  That  fact  was  acknowledged  in  a  statement 
reportedly  made  by  the  Vanuatu  Prime  Minister’s 
office in May 2012 and published by the Vanuatu Daily 
Post on 22 May 2012, which, inter alia, stated:
“In  Vanuatu,  the  West  Papua  issue  has  been 
politicized  and  used  by  different  political  parties 
and movements not for the interests of the people in 
West Papua, but more so for elections and political 
campaign propaganda”.
I must emphasize that that statement was issued not 
by the Government of Indonesia, but by none other than 
the then Government of Vanuatu itself.
Finally, Indonesia for its part will not be distracted 
by such inclinations. We will continue our development 
efforts in the provinces in the context of their special 
autonomy,  and  we  will  persevere  in  the  promotion  of 
friendly relations with the Government and the people 
of Vanuatu based on the principles governing friendly 
relations between countries.
Mr.  Ahmad  (Pakistan):  In  her  statement  of 
27 September (see A/68/PV.16), the Prime Minister of 
Bangladesh  used  this  forum  to  make  some  references 
relating to Pakistan that are not supported by the facts. 
We  are  deeply  dismayed  by  the  statement,  because 
Pakistan and Bangladesh are brotherly countries and at 
one point the people of Pakistan and Bangladesh were 
citizens  of  one  country.  Even  today,  there  is  warmth 
and  goodwill  between  our  two  peoples.  Multiple 
channels  of  communication  are  available  between  the 
two Governments.
The Bangladesh statement was acrimonious and a 
misrepresentation  of  facts.  Its  premise  was  incorrect, 
facts  flawed,  and  its  legal  dimensions  untenable.  We 
believe  that  raising  an  issue  that  has  little  relevance 
in  contemporary  Pakistan-Bangladesh  relations 
is 
unhelpful  and  counterproductive.  Nevertheless,  the 
Government and the people of Pakistan will continue 
to  work  towards  strengthening  friendly  ties  with  the 
Government and the people of Bangladesh.
The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.
22/22 
13-48953
