United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
47th plenary meeting
Thursday, 7 November 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.47
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Haniff 
(Malaysia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda items 29 and 123 (continued)
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/68/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters 
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Ukraine):  I  would  like  to  start 
by  thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr.  John  Ashe,  for  convening  today’s  debate.  My 
delegation fully supports the personal engagement and 
energy with which the President has worked to advance 
the  United  Nations  reform  agenda,  with  Security 
Council modernization as a top priority. 
Let  me  start  with  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2).  We  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative of China for introducing that document 
and the delegation of the United States for preparing its 
introduction.  Having  preliminarily  studied  this  year’s 
report,  I  would  like  to  make  just  a  few  points.    It  is 
our understanding that there will be less time in today’s 
debate  for  the  detailed  commentary  that  the  report 
deserves.
First  of  all,  we  acknowledge 
further 
improvements  in  the  quality  of  the  Council’s  annual 
report. At the same time, we share the view that there 
the 
is still room for improving its prognostic and analytical 
components. My delegation also supports the idea that 
future  reports  of  the  Council  should  digest  the  views 
expressed by non-members of that body during its open 
debates. 
As  an  active  contributor  of  military  and  police 
personnel,  Ukraine  welcomes  the  fact  that  United 
Nations peacekeeping continues to feature prominently 
in  the  Council’s  agenda.  In  that  context,  thematic 
open  debates  have  proved  to  be  vital  for  sustaining 
positive  momentum.  We  encourage  the  Council  to 
further expand its outreach and give troop-contributing 
countries  a  stronger  voice  in  the  decision-making 
processes in that area. 
Ukraine  is  in  favour  of  further  extending  the 
thematic edge of the Council’s agenda. Among the most 
challenging and far-reaching trends that have yet to be 
considered  by  the  Council  are,  in  the  view  of  many 
delegations,  such  issues  as  sustainable  energy  and 
water  security,  which  are  vital  for  a  large  part  of  the 
United Nations membership, in particular small island 
developing States, landlocked developing countries and 
the least developed States. 
Ukraine  welcomes  the  consolidation,  during  the 
reporting period, of cooperation between the Security 
Council  and  regional  and  subregional  organizations. 
My  country  is  committed  to  taking  forward  such 
instrumental partnerships and is currently contributing 
to  that  endeavour,  inter  alia,  by  serving  as  the 
current  Chair  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  the  world’s  largest 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-55318 (E)
*1355318*
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
regional organization. In that context, I would like to 
recall proposals set forth in the briefing to the Security 
Council by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, 
Mr.  Leonid  Kozhara,  who  spoke  in  his  capacity  as 
OSCE  Chairperson-in-Office,  held  in  May  2013  (see 
S/PV.6961). 
Ukraine  strongly  supports  the  Security  Council’s 
engagement  in  conflict  prevention  and  mediation,  as 
my country considers those efforts to be indispensable 
instruments in the Council’s toolkit. Conflict prevention 
and  mediation  were  of  the  utmost  importance  during 
Ukraine’s  sole  term  as  an  independent  State  on  the 
Council, in 2000-2001, and they will remain so in the 
event that we are elected to the Council for the period 
2016-2017.  Let  me  now  turn  to  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform.  Ukraine  supports  all  steps,  either 
procedural or substantial, that can lead to some long-
overdue progress in that area. It is in that context that 
we welcome the decision of the President of the General 
Assembly to reappoint Ambassador Tanin as Chair of 
the intergovernmental negotiations and to convene an 
advisory group on the issue.
in  September, 
As  to  Ukraine’s  national  approach,  let  me  recall 
that,  when  speaking  in  this  Hall  during  the  general 
debate 
the  President  of  Ukraine 
emphasized our openness to discussing all progressive 
opinions,  options  and  new  approaches  to  Security 
Council  reform  within  the  framework  of  the  ongoing 
intergovernmental negotiations, which we fully support 
(see  A/68/PV.5).  In  keeping  with  the  aforementioned 
energy 
consolidated 
position,  it  was  also  stressed  that  any  increase  in  the 
Council’s  non-permanent  membership  should  ensure 
the  enhanced  representation  of  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European  States  by  allocating  to  it  of  at  least  one 
additional non-permanent seat.
group’s 
and 
environment 
Let me add that Ukraine considers both directions 
of  reform  to  be  matters  of  high  priority,  namely, 
the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
improvement  of  its  working  methods.  That  is  why 
we  took  note  with  interest  of  the  recent  proposal 
originating from the group of five permanent members 
of the Council with regard to the right of the veto. In 
terms of the Council’s enlargement, we stand ready to 
explore  ways  that  could  lead  to  the  broadest  possible 
agreement.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underline  the 
willingness of my delegation to contribute to the reform 
endeavour through active and constructive engagement 
in  an  open,  transparent,  inclusive  and  comprehensive 
negotiating process.
Ms. Tan (Singapore): We thank the President of the 
General  Assembly  for  convening  this  annual  debate. 
The Assembly has debated the question of the equitable 
representation on and the increase in the membership 
of  the  Security  Council  for  as  long  as  it  has  existed. 
However, reform has been infrequent. The last increase 
in the membership of the Council occurred in 1965. At 
that time, there were 117 States Members of the United 
Nations; today, we number 193. That means that, in the 
past 50 years, the number of Member States has grown 
by 65 per cent, but the number of seats in the Security 
Council has increased by 0 per cent. Two implications 
of that trend are worth highlighting.
First, the size of the Security Council has not kept 
pace  with  the  substantial  increase  in  United  Nations 
membership  in  the  past  half-century.  Secondly,  the 
representation on and size of the Security Council today 
are a reflection of the world that existed in 1965. There 
have been many changes in the international landscape 
since then. We have also seen the birth of dozens of new 
countries. Major shifts in global power among States are 
occurring, and economic power is being redistributed 
from  the  traditional  centres  to  Brazil,  Russia,  India, 
China, South Africa and other emerging economies.
New  political  and  security  challenges  have 
also  emerged  since  1965.  The  Security  Council  has 
created  new  ways  to  deal  with  those  multilayered 
threats. However, the Council is still trying to play an 
increasingly complicated game of chess with the same 
15 pieces it had 50 years ago. That should be a source 
of concern for all of us in the Assembly.
It  is  clear  that  there  are  differences  of  opinion 
among us about how to increase the membership of the 
Security  Council.  But  we  can  agree  on  the  principle 
that  there  is  a  need  and  an  urgency  for  reform.  We 
need  to  accelerate  the  reform  process,  including 
an  expansion  of  seats  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent categories without an extension of the 
veto. All parties in today’s debate should also recognize 
that  the  pressure  to  create  a  more  representative  and 
effective Council will only increase with each year that 
passes without reform. It is therefore critical for us to 
engage in a constructive dialogue, instead of repeating 
the same positions year after year. Singapore welcomes 
any initiative that constructively addresses the pressing 
2/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
need  for  Security  Council  reform.  In  that  regard,  we 
have taken note of the President’s establishment of an 
advisory group on Security Council reform and would 
be interested to learn more about it.
The  goals  of  increased  representation  in  and 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Council  are  not  mutually 
exclusive. The last expansion, in 1965, did not degrade 
the Council’s ability to function. Indeed, an expanded 
Council  must  also  be  a  more  efficient  and  effective 
Council. Those Powers that have or that seek a greater 
voice  and  representation  in  the  Council  must  accept 
greater  responsibilities  for  meeting  global  challenges 
and  maintaining  international  peace  and  security. 
Those 
the 
Council’s  working  methods  allow  for  a  body  that  is 
more effective, inclusive, transparent and accountable 
to non-members.
include  ensuring 
responsibilities 
that 
The  issue  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  is 
important for small States, which make up a majority 
in the United Nations. Out of the 193 States Members 
of  the  United  Nations,  105  are  also  members  of  the 
Forum  of  Small  States.  However,  of  the  70  States 
Members that have never been elected as members of 
the Security Council, 50 are small States. Many of us 
find  it  increasingly  difficult  to  commit  the  necessary 
resources  required  to  secure  election  to  the  Council, 
as  campaigns  for  seats  are  becoming  increasingly 
intensive and have to be planned years, or even decades, 
in advance.
Small  States  face  unique  challenges  owing  to  the 
vulnerabilities associated with their size. It is important 
that our perspectives be represented in the Council, but 
the  current  system  makes  service  on  the  Council  for 
most of us a once-in-a-generation opportunity. Many of 
us may never even succeed in our bids to be elected to 
the Council.
However,  given  the  fundamental  differences  of 
opinion,  a  reform  of  the  membership  of  the  Council 
may take considerable time. That makes it all the more 
important that working methods be improved so as to 
benefit all Member States, particularly those among us 
that will serve on the Council rarely, if at all. Singapore 
has  constantly  advocated  improving  the  Council’s 
working methods, independently and without prejudice 
to the other aspects of Council reform. Our statement in 
the recent Security Council debate on working methods 
detailed our views on working methods, including the 
use of the veto and the report of the Security Council 
(see S/PV.7052).
Mr.  Weisleder  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Costa  Rica  thanks  the  Ambassador  of  China  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November for his introduction of the Council’s annual 
report (A/68/2) to the General Assembly. We also thank 
the delegation of the United States for its arduous work 
in drafting the introduction and the compilation of the 
report.
My delegation, as a member of the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group,  attaches  special 
importance to this debate, because we believe that the 
task of improving the working methods of the Council 
and  promoting  its  transparency  and  accountability 
are  an  ongoing  process  in  which  all  Members  of  the 
Organization should be involved, quite aside from the 
differences we may have on the reform of the Security 
Council.
On  the  one  hand,  my  delegation  recognizes  that 
some improvement has taken place in the preparation 
and  the  content  of  the  Council’s  report.  On  the  other 
hand, we continue to believe that the report could better 
reflect  the  problems,  assessments  and  motives  that 
have driven the Council’s work during the period under 
examination.  In  that  vein,  the  report  we  have  before 
us is, as in pervious years, an extensive account of the 
work that took place throughout the reporting period, in 
this case from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
Costa Rica supports the idea that the annual report 
of the Security Council should include a high-quality 
analytical  assessment  of  its  work  that  would  also 
discuss  those  cases  in  which  the  Council  did  not  act, 
as well as the opinions of its members at the time when 
agenda items were actually considered. The continuing 
lack  of  any  methodical  or  systematic  analysis  of  the 
Council’s  work  in  its  annual  report  to  the  Assembly 
is thus a symptom of serious disconnectedness and of 
the  urgent  need  to  improve  its  working  methods.  We 
also  believe  that  its  presentation  should  be  conducive 
to  a  more  analytical  and  interactive  focus,  one  that 
looks to the future as well as referring to the past. Both 
retrospective and prospective focuses call for analysis 
that goes beyond simple narrative accounts.
Regarding  agenda  item  123,  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters,  Costa  Rica  wishes  to  announce  its  interest 
and willingness to move forward on that very relevant 
topic. We share the views expressed by the Permanent 
Representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for 
13-55318
3/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
Consensus  Group  (see  A/68/PV.46),  and  reiterate  our 
conviction  that  it  is  here,  in  the  framework  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and  with  193  Member 
States present, that positions on the issue of reform should 
be  discussed  and  compared.  My  delegation  therefore 
believes that the advisory group recently established by 
the President of the General Assembly should confine 
itself to offering advisory opinions to the President, if 
asked to do so. Costa Rica is firmly committed to the 
process  and  the  importance  of  initiating  negotiations 
in a climate of trust, transparency and mutual respect.
Security  Council  reform  cannot  be  effective  if  it 
consists  merely  of  increasing  the  privileges  enjoyed 
by some and adding permanent seats for others. Costa 
Rica  supports  a  modest  increase  in  the  number  of 
non-permanent members, which would enable regions 
of  the  world  to  be  better  represented,  particularly 
those  that  are  currently  poorly  represented,  such  as 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  Africa.  Such 
a  strategy  would  ensure  that  the  broader  membership 
retains its important oversight role and that the Council 
reflects the realities of our century, and would increase 
the proportion of elected members of Council and the 
opportunities for small and medium-szied States to be 
included in it. We are therefore in favour of introducing 
the  principle  of  re-election,  which  would  ensure  the 
more  frequent  presence  of  States  with  the  greatest 
willingness and availability to play an active role in the 
topics on the Council’s agenda and at the same help to 
ensure  non-permanent  members’  accountability.  We 
would like to recall that election to the Council is not 
simply a privilege; it is a global responsibility.
Security Council reform demands flexibility and a 
spirit of inclusiveness on everyone’s part. We reiterate 
our  full  readiness  to  participate  in  the  framework  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  to  collaborate 
constructively and purposefully in designing a process 
that  will  enable  us  to  make  progress  at  this  defining 
moment for our Organization’s future.
Mr.  Jiménez  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would first like to express our support for the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
Ambassador Delano Frank Bart, on behalf of the L.69 
Group, the most representative, diverse and numerous 
group involved in these negotiations (see A/68/PV.46).
Nicaragua  is  very  grateful  to  the  President  for 
convening  this  meeting,  which  is  highly  relevant  to 
the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  on  the 
reforms  that  the  Security  Council  needs.  We  are  in 
full agreement with the President that United Nations 
reform  is  an  important  component  in  our  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  Organization,  and  we  thank  him  for 
conducting  extensive  consultations  designed  to  kick-
start  the  process.  We  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
initiative, creativity and commitment in the President’s 
efforts to comply with the mandate of the 2005 World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  and  other  United 
Nations  resolutions,  particularly  those  on  Security 
Council reform.
For  more  than  20  years,  we  have  discussed  and 
exchanged all possible opinions on reform. In the past 
five years, within this framework of intergovernmental 
negotiations, there have been nine rounds in which States 
have  discussed  their  positions.  The  L.69  Group  has 
clearly and repeatedly expressed the basis and fairness 
of  our  positions,  which  consolidate  the  sentiments  of 
the overwhelming majority of Member States. And that 
is a fact.
We  believe  it  is  definitely  time  for  all  of  us  to 
intensify  our  efforts  to  move  this  process  forward  in 
a  sustained  and  more  structured  way.  In  that  context, 
we  welcome  the  President’s  initiative  of  creating 
an  advisory  group  for  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to draft a negotiating text for the next round 
of intergovernmental negotiations, on 15 November. He 
can rely on our full cooperation. The text should reflect 
the  wishes  of  the  overwhelming  majority  calling  for 
urgent  reforms,  particularly  those  involving  increases 
in both the permanent and non-permanent membership 
categories  aimed  at  achieving  a  fair  balance  in  the 
Council.
The  enlargement  of  the  permanent  membership 
should  take  into  account  the  equitable  representation 
of  all  regions,  particularly  Africa  and  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean,  which  have  always  lacked  fair 
representation  on  the  Security  Council.  It  is  also 
essential  that  the  negotiations  enter  a  more  dynamic 
phase in order to draft a concise working text, as the 
President  has  proposed,  and  thus  achieve  concrete 
results by 2015, the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations.
In conclusion, we wish to once again recognize the 
constructive,  transparent  role  of  Ambassador  Tanin 
from the moment that responsibility was conferred on 
him by Father Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session, 
and who since then has steered the intergovernmental 
process  professionally,  equitably  and  impartially.  We 
4/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
are  pleased  with  his  decision  to  continue  leading  the 
negotiations, bearing in mind the issue of institutional 
memory  and  Ambassador  Tanin’s  continuing  to  chair 
the intergovernmental process. Nicaragua reiterates its 
support  for  Security  Council  reform  to  the  President 
and to Ambassador Tanin, as well as our confidence in 
his leadership and ability to direct the process.
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea): It is an honour to speak before the General 
Assembly  on  such  an  important  agenda  item  as  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters. It is a pressing task at present to improve the 
work  of  the  Security  Council,  which  has  the  primary 
task of guaranteeing international peace and security.
The current Security Council does not reflect the 
unanimous  will  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations in its membership, agenda or working methods. 
It  is  severely  lacking  in  impartiality  and  democracy. 
That is the stark reality of today.
The high-handedness and arbitrariness of the super-
Power on the Security Council has reached the reckless 
stage of depriving sovereign States of their legitimate 
rights  to  the  peaceful  use  and  development  of  outer 
space.  One  typical  example  is  that  the  United  States 
took the issue unlawfully to the Security Council when 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea successfully 
launched a peaceful satellite in December 2012 in full 
compliance with international laws and regulations.
Since  the  foundation  of  the  United  Nations,  there 
have  been  numerous  satellite  launches  throughout 
the  world.  However,  there  has  not  been  a  single  case 
of any satellite launch by an individual country being 
brought before the Security Council for consideration. 
Today, it is the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
whose  peace,  security,  dignity  and  sovereignty  have 
been violated. But tomorrow it will be another country 
that becomes the victim of such high-handedness and 
arbitrariness.
It  is  essential  to  reform  the  Security  Council  as 
the  impartial,  objective  and  democratic  organ  of  the 
United Nations in order to recover confidence in it and 
make it faithful to its primary mission of maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Twenty  years  have 
passed  since  the  agenda  item  on  Security  Council 
reform was raised in the General Assembly. However, 
to date no progress has been made. That is because the 
issues related to international peace and security in the 
Security Council have been largely manipulated by the 
United States in pursuit of its own interests. To overcome 
such a problem, the following concrete measures should 
be taken in order to reform the Security Council.
First,  the  principles  of  impartiality,  objectivity 
and  non-selectivity  should  be  thoroughly  observed  in 
all activities of the Security Council. Impartiality and 
democracy are the bedrock of the work of the Security 
Council.  If  the  Security  Council  continues  to  pursue 
its  partial,  selective  and  arbitrary  practices  in  its 
decision-making  process,  it  will  never  ever  enjoy  the 
trust and confidence of Member States.
First,  the  Security  Council  should  reflect  the 
demands and interests of all Member States by adopting 
new  working  methods  on  the  basis  of  objectivity, 
rationality, non-selectivity and non-arbitrariness in its 
agenda,  discussion  and  decision-making  process.  On 
the  one  hand,  it  is  imperative  that  Security  Council 
resolutions  and  decisions  relating  to  sanctions  and 
the  use  of  force  become  effective  only  with  the 
authorization of the General Assembly, since they have 
a  serious  impact  on  international  peace  and  security. 
There should be a strict mechanism to that end.
On  the  other  hand,  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council should serve to enable the General Assembly 
to exercise its full powers and functions. The Council 
should  not  interfere  in  agenda  issues  related  to 
the  work  and  functions  of  the  General  Assembly, 
including socioeconomic issues and the activities of the 
humanitarian and development programmes of United 
Nations organizations.
Secondly,  the  current  structure  of  the  Security 
Council  should  be  reformed.  The  representation  of 
the  member  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
and  other  developing  countries  should  be  increased 
in  its  membership  in  order  to  build  confidence  in 
and  the  accountability  of  the  Security  Council.  At 
present,  an  increase  in  the  permanent  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  is  impossible  due  to  the  serious 
disagreements  existing  between  individual  countries 
and regional groups. Therefore, the only viable solution 
to address the unbalanced and unreasonable structure 
of  the  Security  Council  is  to  first  proceed  with  the 
enlargement of the non-permanent category of seats in 
the Security Council.
As far as increasing the permanent membership of 
the  Security  Council  is  concerned,  the  delegation  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  makes  its 
13-55318
5/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
principled position clear once again that Japan is totally 
unqualified to be a permanent member of the Security 
Council  under  any  circumstances.  Japan  continues  to 
deny  its  extraordinary  war  crimes  against  humanity, 
such  as  the  massacre,  plundering  and  invasion  of 
neighbouring countries in the preceding century, which 
placed it under the shameful term of enemy State in the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  is  fully  convinced  that  this  plenary  meeting 
will  be  a  meaningful  opportunity  for  paying  due 
attention to the views of Member States and for taking 
practical measures towards Security Council reform.
Mr.  Katota  (Zambia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  two  important  agenda  items.  I  would  also  like 
to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  representative 
of  China  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2).  Let  me  also  congratulate 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin on his reappointment as Chair 
of the intergovernmental negotiations and express our 
appreciation for his efforts during the previous session.
I wish to align myself with the statement delivered 
earlier today by the Permanent Representative of Sierra 
Leone and Coordinator of the African Union Committee 
of Ten Heads of State and Government on the Reform 
of the United Nations Security Council on behalf of the 
African Group (see A/68/PV.46).
Zambia would like to add its voice to Africa’s call 
for the Security Council to be reformed in order for it 
to be all-embracing. For instance, in a game of chess, 
every piece is important. For someone to win, one has 
to  pay  particular  attention  to  all  the  pieces.  In  that 
regard, we believe that Africa, as one piece in the game, 
was  discarded  and  has  long  been  forgotten.  In  terms 
of peace and security, everyone has to be on board no 
matter how small, how poor or how rich they may be.
The  African  common  position  is  well  known  and 
has  been  supported  by  a  large  majority  of  Member 
States. Africa is not asking too much. As enshrined in 
the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, the 
cry of Africa has been repeated time and again, namely, 
that Africa should be given at least two permanent seats 
with  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges  of  permanent 
membership, including the right of veto if it is continued, 
and two additional non-permanent seats.
It may be observed that most of the issues relating 
to  international  peace  and  security  discussed  in  the 
Security  Council  involve  Africa  or  are  connected 
to  it.  The  Security  Council  must  therefore  be  more 
democratic, accountable, representative and inclusive, 
in  line  with  the  realities  of  these  modern  times.  The 
enlargement of the Security Council in both categories 
of  membership  is  long  overdue,  and  Africa  should  be 
given its rightful place.
On the issue of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Zambia  is  of  the  view  that  the  process  should  be 
continued with a view to building alliances and making 
compromises as well as narrowing the divergence among 
Member  States  and  interest  groups.  The  negotiations 
require time, and they should be allowed to continue. 
However,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  should 
be convened often. Otherwise, if they continue as they 
did during the previous session, they might turn out to 
be  long  and  drawn  out  like  the  Open-Ended  Working 
Group process before them.
Last  but  not  least,  we  remain  firmly  convinced 
that  Africa’s  common  position  continues  to  enjoy  the 
broadest support from the majority of the Organization’s 
membership,  thereby  retaining  a  viable  role  in  the 
reform process.
Mr. Bamrungphong (Thailand): This year marks 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  amendment  to  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  that  paved  the  way  for 
the  expansion  of  the  non-permanent  membership  in 
the  Security  Council  in  1965.  The  number  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  has  today  increased 
to 193. Security Council reform is therefore absolutely 
necessary  in  order  to  bring  the  Council  in  line  with 
present-day realities.
While  Thailand  fully  supports  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  we  are  prepared  to 
consider  any  idea  or  proposal  that  seeks  to  achieve 
a  real  reform  of  the  Council.  Thailand  believes  that 
priority  should  be  given  to,  among  other  things,  an 
improvement  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  and 
its expansion, in order to ensure that the Council can 
become  more  effective,  transparent  and  accountable 
and that its membership reflects the reality of the world 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  My  delegation  strongly 
believes  that  any  expansion  must  be  based  on  an 
equitable geographic representation. In that connection, 
we  support  Africa’s  call 
for  more  appropriate 
representation.
In  spite  of  all  the  difficulties,  complexities  and 
sensitivities,  Thailand  remains  optimistic  about  the 
6/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
eventual  realization  of  a  reformed  Security  Council. 
At  the  same  time,  we  remain  realistic  and  pragmatic 
enough to consider all possible options, including the 
expansion of both categories of membership, as well as 
the so-called interim or intermediate solutions aimed at 
ensuring reform in the near future. In that connection, 
we support the proposal by Ambassador Tanin, Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform, to discuss those intermediate options. 
It  is  unfortunate  that  during  the  ninth  round  of  the 
negotiations we did not have an opportunity to discuss 
those options fully.
In  fact,  the  idea  of  introducing  a  new  category 
of  Security  Council  membership  is  not  new.  A  report 
produced by the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges 
and Change (A/59/565), also known as the Panyarachun 
report, was submitted to the General Assembly in 2004. 
It proposed, inter alia, the possible option of expanding 
the Council. We believe that those intermediate options 
should be given serious consideration in the next round 
of negotiations. I also wish to take this opportunity to 
welcome  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform.
Thailand 
takes  note  of 
the  establishment  of 
an  advisory  group  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  wish  to  seek  further  clarification  on 
the  mandate  and  role  of  such  a  body  with  respect  to 
the  membership-driven  negotiations  process.  Such 
clarification will help us move forward. In that regard, 
we  see  an  advantage  of  the  advisory  group  in  that  it 
can offer a point of reference for the next round of the 
negotiations.  Thailand  would  like  to  see  fundamental 
progress in the Council’s reform. In any case, we have 
to be mindful that any progress made should come from 
the intergovernmental negotiations themselves in order 
to  ensure  inclusive  participation  and  achieve  general 
agreement among Member States.
More than two decades have passed since the reform 
process  began,  in  1992.  Member  States  need  to  work 
together in the spirit of compromise and flexibility in 
order to achieve a reform that is acceptable to all. We 
must  not  leave  that  burden  to  future  generations.  Let 
us  hope  that  the  next  round  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  open  a  new  chapter  for  genuine 
negotiation  towards  reform,  which  is  indispensable, 
thereby  ensuring  greater  representation,  credibility, 
legitimacy and, above all, effectiveness of the Security 
Council.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  Venezuela  endorses  the  statement 
made  this  morning  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46). 
We  are  also  grateful  to  the  delegation  of  China  for 
the  introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council for the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 
(A/68/2).
The move towards intergovernmental negotiations 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  and  an 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
other matters related to the Council, which took place 
after the adoption of decision 62/557, was the high point 
of the process to achieve Security Council reform. We 
cannot ignore the progress made over the past six years. 
Venezuela  is  grateful  for  the  efforts  of  Ambassador 
Tanin of Afghanistan, Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. Venezuela is 
prepared to participate in real, substantive negotiations 
that are based on a text and are results-oriented, with a 
view to achieving significant reform in the short term.
However, my delegation recognizes that we are at 
a crossroads in the negotiation process. There are still 
persistent  and  deeply  entrenched  divergences  among 
countries.  The  resolution  guiding  our  negotiations  is 
too  long  and,  above  all,  we  need  guidance  on  how  to 
proceed.
It  would  be  very  unfortunate  for  us  to  ignore  the 
progress made and begin fresh talks, only to repeat the 
same old stances. We therefore welcome the timely and 
courageous  decision  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, Ambassador John Ashe, to convene a group 
of experienced people with extensive diplomatic skills to 
advise the Chair on this significant problem that we are 
all discussing. How should we proceed in the negotiation 
process? What is the best formula that will enable us to 
move towards a real negotiating text without any States 
feeling that their interests are being compromised? The 
advisory group in no way compromises the impartiality 
of  the  President  in  the  negotiation  process.  Quite  the 
contrary,  its  objective  is  to  ensure  that  the  President 
has  at  least  one  recommendation  on  how  to  act  as 
impartially  as  possible  when  deciding  what  course  of 
action  to  take.  The  content  of  that  recommendation 
will not be substantive but procedural. I wish to assure 
my  colleagues  that  the  President  has  a  responsibility 
to carry on with the process of reforming the Security 
Council. Seeking advise as to how best to proceed with 
that responsibility is one of his prerogatives. Venezuela 
13-55318
7/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
asks the President to carry on with his important work. 
We encourage him to continue to move forward.
The expansion of the membership of the Security 
Council and the reform of its working methods should 
lead to a more democratic, representative, transparent 
and  effective  Council.  The  reform  process  must  be 
aimed  at  an  expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent categories of membership. In that regard, 
we  also  need  to  respond  to  the  legitimate  aspirations 
of the African continent, comprising 54 countries, and 
rectify  the  historical  injustice  done  when  it  comes  to 
their  lack  of  representation  in  the  Council.  African 
countries account for more than a quarter of the States 
Members of the Organization and represent more than 
two thirds of the items on the Security Council agenda.
Developing  countries  from  the  regions  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  and  Asia  should  also 
be  included  in  the  category  of  permanent  members. 
Small 
island  developing  States  should  also  be 
accorded representation. An arrangement of that kind 
would  realize  the  legitimate  aspiration  of  peoples  in 
development, and it would respond to the appeals made 
to correct the imbalances of power within that organ.
To conclude, I would like to draw attention to one 
of  the  topics  on  which  Venezuela  places  the  greatest 
importance,  namely,  the  urgent  need  for  the  Security 
Council  to  become  a  more  transparent  and  inclusive 
body. In that regard, we reject the frequent practice of 
conducting closed meetings and informal consultations, 
as  such  meetings  should  be  exceptions  to  the  rule  of 
holding public meetings, as stated in article 48 of the 
Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure.  Venezuela 
therefore  urges  the  Security  Council  to  increase  the 
proportion of open meetings, so that all Member States 
have  an  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the 
Council.
Mr.  Och  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
Ambassador Liu Jieyi, Permanent Representative of the 
People’s Republic of China, for introducing the report 
of the Security Council (A/68/2).
Mongolia commends the Council for its critical work 
in discharging its responsibility for the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  Over  the  reporting 
period,  the  Security  Council  adopted  a  number  of 
momentous  decisions, 
including  resolutions  2086 
(2013), 2098 (2013) and 2100 (2013), which recognized 
the  crucial  role  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, and set out a new approach to peacekeeping 
operations. We also welcome the increased frequency 
of  open  debates  in  the  Council  on  matters  pertaining 
to the maintenance of international peace and security.
The efforts made by the Security Council to improve 
its  cooperation  with  the  troop-contributing  countries 
(TCCs)  and  the  Secretariat,  particularly  the  work  of 
the Security Council Working Group on Peacekeeping 
Operations,  have helped  in  considering  the  question 
of  inter-mission  cooperation  and  in  addressing  issues 
concerning  the  safety  and  security  of  peacekeepers. 
Having  recognized  those  positive  developments,  we 
wish to note that the Council has yet to explore avenues 
for  further  enhancing  its  work  in  that  area,  including 
through deepening a common understanding on policy 
matters  and  ensuring  wider  participation  by  TCCs  in 
decision-making processes.
My  delegation  wishes  to  underline  the  concrete 
measures aimed at improving the working methods of the 
Security Council. In that respect, Mongolia welcomes 
the open debates in the Council held on 26 November 
2012 (see S/PV.6870), and, more recently, on 29 October 
2013 (see S/PV.7052), on its working methods, including 
improvements  in  its  engagement  with  other  United 
Nations organs, regional organizations and TCCs. We 
also  welcome  the  progress  made  in  implementing  the 
measures contained in the note by the President of the 
Security Council (S/2010/507), and thank the members 
of the Council for convening wrap-up private meetings, 
to which non-members of the Council have been invited.
On the question of Security Council reform, since 
the adoption of decision 62/557, of 15 September 2008, 
nine  rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  have 
been conducted under the stewardship of Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin,  whom  we  sincerely  congratulate  on  his 
recent reappointment. My delegation welcomes decision 
67/561 to immediately continue the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  in  informal 
plenary  format  at  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
sixty-eighth  session.  We  appreciate  the  President’s 
pledge and efforts to advance the reform processes in 
all  the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  during 
the current session.
As we approach the next round of intergovernmental 
negotiations at this session, Mongolia wishes to echo the 
position expressed by many delegations, namely, that in 
order  to  resume  the  intergovernmental  process  early, 
we need a concise and manageable timetable in order 
to embark upon genuine reform-related negotiations. In 
8/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
that respect, my delegation is hopeful that the initiative 
of the President will be supported by Member States.
Mongolia’s  stance  on  Security  Council  reform  is 
well known. We have consistently stood for a just and 
equitable enlargement of that body through an increase 
in the numbers of both permanent and non-permanent 
members,  while  ensuring  the  due  representation  of 
developing  and  developed  countries.  My  delegation 
reiterates Mongolia’s support for Japan, Germany and 
India,  which,  we  believe,  are  able  to  shoulder  greater 
responsibility in pursuit of international peace, security 
and  development.  Permanent  seats  should  also  be 
allocated  to  Latin  America  and  Africa  in  a  reformed 
Security Council. Our stance for enlargement in both 
current  categories  is  guided  by,  and  based  on,  the 
relevant provisions regarding the Council’s composition 
laid  down  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  political  realities  of  today’s  world,  as  well  as  the 
principles of justice and equality to ensure greater and 
enhanced  representation  of  the  developing  countries, 
particularly  the  non-members  and  underrepresented 
regional groups.
Enlargement is not, however, a goal in itself. The 
expanded Security Council must be fully equipped to 
react coherently and effectively to crises and conflicts, 
and  be  able  to  take  decisions,  particularly  on  matters 
relating to Chapter VII of the Charter. We believe that 
the  veto  power  should  be  thoroughly  reviewed,  and 
efforts should be made to turn the Council into a more 
democratic institution.
Finally, I welcome the President’s decision to make 
the reform of the principal organs of the United Nations, 
including the Security Council, one of his priorities. I 
also express my delegation’s sincere hope that, with the 
President’s  strong  leadership,  this  session  will  make 
meaningful progress towards early Council reform, as 
mandated by world leaders at the 2005 World Summit.
Mr.  Petersen  (Denmark):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation  would  like  to  join  others  in  thanking  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  John  Ashe, 
for  calling  this  timely  meeting.  That  action  on  his 
part  demonstrates  his  commitment  to  United  Nations 
reform, which, as was noted in his acceptance speech 
earlier  this  year,  represents  an  important  element  in 
our overall efforts to strengthen the Organization (see 
A/67/PV.87).
My  delegation  also  congratulates  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Ambassador  Tanin 
has conducted the negotiations so far with impeccable 
efficiency  and  impartiality.  He  can  rely  on  the  full 
support  of  Denmark  as  we  continue  to  advance  the 
process of Security Council reform.
Denmark remains firmly committed to comprehensive 
Security  Council  reform,  an  essential  complement  of 
the  overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Progress  is 
needed  to  strengthen  the  credibility  and  legitimacy 
of the Organization as a whole. To do so, the Security 
Council  must  reflect  the  realities  of  today  and  the 
emerging international order of tomorrow. The ultimate 
goal is a reform that is comprehensive in nature and that 
increases the Council’s ability to discharge its mandate 
under the Charter of the United Nations.
The  Security  Council  must  continue  to  play 
a  decisive  global  role  in  the  promotion  of  peace, 
security, human rights and democracy. To do so more 
effectively, broader representation is needed. Denmark 
remains committed to an enlargement of the Council in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership, including both developing and developed 
countries  as  new  permanent  members.  The  goal  is  to 
enhance the legitimacy, credibility and effectiveness of 
the Council.
Furthermore,  it  is  essential  that  small  States  be 
given  an  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  work  of 
the  Security  Council  and  to  serve  as  members  of  the 
Council.  That  also  relates  to  improving  the  working 
methods  of  the  Council,  thus  ensuring  maximum 
transparency  and  interaction  with  the  Member  States 
not serving as members of the Council.
Denmark remains committed to moving the process 
forward. We are encouraged by the recent initiative by 
the President of the Assembly to establish an advisory 
group of permanent representatives. We believe that the 
group should provide substantial and tangible ideas and 
recommendations on how to move the process forward 
and, in that regard, serve as valuable input for the start 
of concrete intergovernmental negotiations.
Before  long,  we  will  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and, 
at  the  same  time,  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
2005 World Summit, where world leaders supported an 
early  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  the 
time  has  come  to  deliver  on  our  promises  and  to  live 
up  to  our  responsibility  as  Member  States.  Reform  is 
and must be a top priority for everyone committed to 
13-55318
9/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
effective international cooperation and multilateralism. 
We  believe  that  reform  can  be  achieved.  We  will 
continue  to  offer  the  President  our  support  and  to 
engage  constructively  in  our  common  endeavours  to 
achieve that goal.
Mr. Patriota (Brazil): I express my thanks to the 
President  for  convening  today’s  important  debate  in 
the  broader  setting  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are 
confident that, under his determined guidance, we will 
be able to make progress towards a more representative, 
legitimate, 
and 
accountable Security Council.
transparent 
efficient, 
effective, 
Brazil aligns itself with the statements delivered at 
the 46th meeting by Ambassador Motohide Yoshikawa, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Japan,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of Four, and by Ambassador Delano Frank Bart, 
Permanent Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis, on 
behalf of the L.69 Group.
I also take this opportunity to thank Ambassador 
Liu  Jieyi,  Permanent  Representative  of  China  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2)  at  this  morning’s  meeting 
(see A/68/PV.46).
After less than two months in office, the President’s 
commitment  to  move  the  Security  Council  reform 
process  forward  has  already  been  made  evident.  In 
that  regard,  I  feel  greatly  honoured  to  be  part  of  his 
advisory group, together with five other ambassadors. 
Under  the  coordination  of  Ambassador  Noel  Sinclair, 
the  President’s  wise  and  experienced  Deputy  Chef  de 
Cabinet, we are committed to advise the President on the 
production of “a basis for the start of intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  reflects  the  ideas  put  forward  in 
the  negotiations  so  far,  and  also  identifies  available 
options”,  a  quote  from  the  President’s  letter  dated 
22  October  to  all  Permanent  Representatives  to  the 
United  Nations.  That  statement,  together  with  the 
framework established by decision 62/557 and the 2005 
World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), represents a 
platform to carry out that task.
I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the  reappointment 
the  Chair  of 
of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as 
intergovernmental negotiations. In the past five years, 
Ambassador  Tanin  has  undertaken  tireless  efforts 
to  move  the  process  forward  and  has  proved  to  be  a 
capable facilitator.
As reflected in the report presented this morning, 
the work undertaken by the Council between 1 August 
2012  and  31  July  2013,  ranging  from  the  situation  in 
Syria to the challenges in Africa and from the protection 
of  civilians  in  armed  conflict  to  the  management  of 
the  several  sanctions  regimes,  is  indicative  of  the 
serious,  diverse  and  complex  challenges  facing  the 
Security  Council.  The  Council’s  inability  to  provide 
a  concrete  solution  to  the  deadlock  in  Syria,  and  the 
sovereign  decision  of  a  Member  State  to  decline  the 
seat  to  which  it  was  elected,  are  clear  and  worrying 
reminders of the need to update our collective security 
operational  framework.  We  commend  the  President 
for  pointing  out  in  his  acceptance  speech  on  14  June 
that, without an overall effort to strengthen the United 
Nations,  the  Organization  runs  the  risk  of  becoming 
inconsequential (see A/67/PV.86). No single Member of 
the  United  Nations  today  questions  the  necessity  and 
urgency  of  reform.  Today’s  debate  provides  us  with 
a  new  opportunity  to  start  to  address  the  deficit  in 
representativeness  and  legitimacy  that  are  preventing 
the Security Council from fulfilling its role.
The sooner we accomplish our task, the better the 
Council will be able to respond to the complexities of 
contemporary  international  challenges.  That  is  why 
many  among  us  believe  that  the  year  2015  presents  a 
suitable time frame for achieving a concrete outcome. 
The year 2015 marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
United Nations and represents 10 years since the adoption 
of  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  in  which  our 
Heads of State and Heads of Government unanimously 
underlined  their  support  for  an  early  reform  of  the 
Security Council. Surely, after two decades of debates, 
we must reject any attempts at artificially delaying the 
task we have been entrusted with. We must reject the 
artificial objection to timelines in the light of the clear 
instruction given to us by our Heads of State and Heads 
of Government in 2005.
Brazil  is  eager  to  contribute  to  the  urgent  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  by  concentrating  on  the 
options  —  as  regards  the  five  key  issues  listed  in 
decision  62/557  that  enjoyed  the  support  of  a  vast 
majority.  Let  us  remind  ourselves  that,  in  every 
democratic decision-making process, consensus is built 
around majority views. A good starting point would be 
to recognize that the overwhelming majority of Member 
States support enlargement in both the permanent and 
non-permanent categories.
10/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
The  Council’s  ability 
to  adequately  address 
challenges to international peace and security directly 
affects  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  around  the 
world.  In  that  sense,  we  must  be  aware  not  only  of 
the  importance  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
for  enhancing  intergovernmental  cooperation  on  the 
promotion  of  peace  and  security  in  the  twenty-first 
century,  but  also  beyond  these  walls  for  societies  at 
large.  The  persistence  of  the  status  quo  confronts  us 
with  a  shared  responsibility  in  the  face  of  potential 
systemic failure.
Brazil  believes  that  the  opportunity  for  reform  is 
now at hand and must be faced with a renewed sense of 
individual and collective responsibility. We trust in the 
President’s leadership to guide us through this critical 
exercise for each of our countries and for the future of 
the United Nations.
Mr. Hetesy (Hungary): Hungary concurs with the 
assessment  that  the  reform  process  should  continue 
and must be reinvigorated. Hungary therefore warmly 
welcomes  the  decision  to  reappoint  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.
to  establish  an  advisory  group  of 
In  a  similar  vein,  Hungary  also  supports  the 
initiative 
the 
President  in  order  to  produce  a  basis  that  reflects  the 
ideas put forward in the negotiations and that identifies 
the  available  options  before  us.  We  are  satisfied  with 
the clarifications provided on the role of the advisory 
group this morning.
As  far  as  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  are 
concerned,  it  is  time  to  break  the  cycle  of  repeated 
rounds  of  discussions,  where  national  positions  are 
simply  stated  and  restated,  again  and  again.  We 
therefore  commend  the  initiative  of  the  President  and 
urge all countries to seize the momentum.
The creation of a Security Council that is broadly 
representative, efficient and transparent is not only in 
the  best  interest  of  the  international  community;  it  is 
also  our  shared  responsibility.  In  order  to  join  forces 
with other countries in trying to find ways and means 
out  of  the  current  deadlock,  let  me  put  forward  the 
views of Hungary.
groups,  including  the  Eastern  European  Group,  and 
should reflect the political and socioeconomic changes. 
Countries  such  as  Germany,  India,  Japan  and  Brazil, 
which have indicated their readiness to shoulder higher 
responsibilities, have to be granted that opportunity.
Secondly,  enlargement  is  not  the  answer  to  all  of 
the challenges that the Security Council is facing today. 
The  Council  has  to  become  more  accountable  and  its 
work  more  coherent  and  more  transparent  in  order  to 
fulfil its ultimate responsibility, that is, the protection 
of international peace and security.
Thirdly,  with  regard  to  peace  and  security,  the 
existence of peaceful, resilient and inclusive societies 
is  a  clear  prerequisite  for  universal  sustainable 
development,  which  in  turn  is  the  basis  for  lasting 
international  peace  and  security.  That  understanding 
will have to be translated into new types of improved 
interaction  between  the  Council  and  other  United 
Nations  bodies.  Thinking  and  acting  in  silos  will  not 
get us closer to solutions to multifaceted challenges.
Fourthly, the world and the nature of its challenges 
have changed significantly. Therefore, the Council and 
its  working  methods  cannot  remain  static.  The  mere 
fact  that  after  more  than  67  years  the  most  powerful 
international  body  still  uses  its  provisional  rules  of 
procedure confirms that there is room for improvement.
It is true that there are different national interests 
and group interests when it comes to Security Council 
reform. It is also true that all interests are legitimate. 
The  question  is,  how  can  we  cater  to  those  different 
interests?  In  the  humble  opinion  of  Hungary,  it  is 
possible. It can be done if we accept that inaction is not 
an option. It can be done by balancing national interests 
with international responsibilities. And it can be done 
if  we  change  our  so-called  rules  of  engagement.  The 
lamentable fact is that in the field of Security Council 
reform,  until  now  we  have  built  camps  instead  of 
building  consensus.  Zero-sum  games  will  not  yield 
results.  Therefore,  we  have  to  enter  into  text-based 
and  results-oriented  negotiations  whereby  win-win 
situations can carry the day.
Hungary  is  ready  to  move  forward  with  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  process 
without preconditions.
First,  the  Security  Council  has  to  be  enlarged 
to  better  reflect  of  the  current  state  of  affairs.  Such 
enlargement  should  be  guided  by  the  principle  of 
equitable  geographical  representation  of  all  regional 
On  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2), 
Hungary hopes to take the floor when it comes up again 
for  discussion.  As  a  member  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group,  Hungary  firmly 
13-55318
11/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
believes that working methods, including the report of 
the  Council,  should  also  be  given  adequate  time  and 
consideration.  That  issue  also  deserves  our  full  and 
undivided attention.
Mrs. Perceval (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): Here 
we are at this important debate, and I wonder what our 
state  of  mind  is  and  what  is  our  state  of  awareness. 
At  times,  some  may  be  sceptical,  feeling  that  this  is 
just  one  more  meeting  and  that  nothing  will  change. 
Perhaps  others  fall  victim  to  resignation,  sometimes 
called pragmatism, accepting that if we are to achieve 
anything at all it will be merely whatever is possible. 
Perhaps some perceive it as effective to move forward 
with an arithmetic exercise — adding to some, taking 
away  from  many  —  and  not  to  exhaust  ourselves  by 
pursuing  substantive  change,  which  would  be  not 
only  complex  but  also  unnecessary  in  this  era  of 
globalization.
Finally, there are others who believe that we must 
respond,  rising  to  our  times  and  our  responsibilities 
in the face of the challenges that bring us together, by 
pursuing a paradigm shift that is not merely formal or 
arithematical  but  fundamentally  substantive  and  that 
is  coherently  linked  with  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  with  genuine 
multilateralism, that moves beyond the Cold War era, 
and  that  is  based  not  on  countries’  gross  domestic 
product  or  military  might,  but  on  the  equality  of  all 
Member States.
With all due respect to those who believe in good 
faith that there is nihil novum sub solis and that what has 
been will continue to be the destiny of humankind and 
of our Organization, let me remind them of what poet 
Julio Cortázar wrote in order to overcome hopelessness, 
that  nowadays  there  is  a  chorus  of  voices  echoing: 
“There is nothing new under the neon light”.
To  those  who  sincerely  believe  that  our  broadest 
horizon is what is pragmatically possible, I invite them 
to  ask  themselves  who  defines  a  proposal  or  reality 
as possible, and why. At the same time, who is it that 
defines  what  is  impossible,  that  is,  unimaginable, 
unthinkable  or  unacceptable?  Here  let  us  recall  that 
Auschwitz or Hiroshima were thought impossible, just 
as  women’s  rights  and  the  end  of  slavery  and  of  the 
injustice of colonialism were declared unthinkable and 
unacceptable.
In response to the worthy belief that international 
peace  and  security  can  be  protected  with  the  same 
rules of the game and that all that has to be done is to 
increase the number of members, I would respectfully 
point out that more members doing the same thing in the 
same way is what is known as the fallacy of domestic 
analogy. In practice, this would be to expand in order 
to maintain the status quo — a status quo that today, no 
matter what positions we may have, we all agree is rigid 
and outdated.
What other transcendent purpose could the Security 
Council have in fulfilling the mandate entrusted to it 
in the Charter if it is not the primary responsibility for 
maintaining international peace and security not as an 
end in itself, but so that dignity, freedom, equality and 
all human rights may be enjoyed by all persons? It is 
true that this is a sovereign obligation of all States. But 
it is also a responsibility erga omnes of all the organs 
of the Organization, and therefore also of the Security 
Council,  binding  on  States  not  only  with  regard  to 
their own peoples, but to all the peoples and all human 
beings of the world.
It is in the context of the progressive universality 
of fundamental rights and non-hegemonic multilateral 
cooperation  that  Argentina  is  working,  with  humility 
and dedication, to achieve for all a Security Council that 
is  more  democratic,  truly  inclusive  and  efficient —  a 
Council that conducts its work with responsibility and 
without  privileges,  with  votes  and  without  vetoes. 
We  do  so  because  we  believe  that  here  in  the  United 
Nations,  from  our  enriching  plurality  and  inspiring 
diversity, we have always striven put an end to the law 
of the strongest.
I  thank  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
November,  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  for  introducing 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2). 
I  also  thank  the  delegation  of  the  United  States  for 
coordinating the drafting of the report.
The delegation of Argentina associates itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Italy 
on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  Group  (see 
A/68/PV.46).
We  reaffirm  that  the  negotiations  in  the  General 
Assembly  on  Security  Council  reform  are  based  on 
specific  norms  aimed  at  seeking  a  solution  that  can 
obtain  the  broadest  political  acceptance  possible. 
Likewise, we agree that these negotiations should cover 
the five key issues already identified, while avoiding a 
focus on any of them in a partial and isolated manner. 
Argentina wishes to reiterate, along with other members 
12/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
of Uniting for Consensus, that we should work towards 
a coherent solution consistent with what we agreed on 
unanimously more than 20 years ago. That means not 
that countries need to put aside our national positions, 
but that we must bear in mind the positions of the entire 
membership and try to reach a legitimate agreement.
That  is  why  it  is  essential  that  any  initiative  on 
Security  Council  reform  respect  the  principles  of 
transparency, good faith, mutual respect, openness and 
inclusivity. We know that these negotiations are by their 
very nature intergovernmental and that we as Member 
States should carry them out and reach the necessary 
agreements.
In  that  connection,  Argentina  shares  the  concern 
expressed  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Italy 
regarding  the  recent  decision  to  create  an  advisory 
group. It must be pointed out that the advisory group, 
as a consultative body for the President of the General 
Assembly,  does  not  have,  nor  could  it  have,  any 
negotiating  role.  The  intergovernmental  negotiations 
are  the  only  forum  qualified  to  take  substantive  and 
procedural  decions  on  Council  reform.  Therefore,  my 
delegation  deems  it  inappropriate  for  the  advisory 
group to prepare a document to serve as the basis for 
negotiations, since it is States that participate in these 
negotiations  and  that  should  prepare  that  document. 
Those  criteria  were  shared  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly at our meeting yesterday.
During  the  ninth  round  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations and previously in the Open-ended Working 
Group, we agreed on the need for an urgent and broad 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it 
legitimate  again  and  to  make  it  more  representative, 
democratic  and  effective.  We  also  considered 
strengthening  its  regional  dimension.  It  is  essential 
for Africa to be adequately represented in the Council, 
correcting the historic injustice of underrepresentation 
of that continent. Increasing Africa’s representation in 
the  Council  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  proposed 
by Uniting for Consensus will benefit all 54 members 
of the African Group and will prevent the maintaining 
or deepening the great inequalities within the Council.
Several  proposals  have  been  made    to  reform  the 
Security  Council,  but  none  has  yet  led  to  a  general 
agreement. The President has suggested that we work 
to  reach  a  common  position.  Argentina  has  upheld 
that  conduct  in  previous  debates.  We  are  aware  that 
reforms  should  reflect  Article  2  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  says  that  the  Organization  is 
based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all 
its Members.
Finally,  bearing  in  mind  the  experience  acquired 
during this prolonged negotiation process, Argentina is 
prepared  to  find  innovative  solutions  that  will  ensure 
a  more  democratic  presence,  improve  the  rotation 
of  non-permanent  members  and  revise  the  working 
methods so that the Council becomes genuinely more 
transparent, interactive and inclusive.
Argentina  does  not  favour  increasing  the  number 
of permanent members of the Council, since we believe 
that that would not ensure greater participation by those 
not represented in it today. My country believes that a 
comprehensive reform of the Council should eliminate 
privileges for a few and ensure equal rights for all.
We  will  work  to  consider  intermediate  solutions, 
which is not the same as interim solutions. It is not just in 
the framework of these intergovernmental negotiations 
that we raise this need; we have also done so as a member 
of the Council. Today, as a member of the Council and 
as Chair of the Council’s Informal Working Group on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  we 
were able to approve the presidential notes contained in 
documents S/2013/515 and S/2013/630.
We know that working methods are important, but 
we  also  know  that  they  are  one  chapter,  just  one.  We 
are  lagging  too  far  behind.  We  know  that  the  road  is 
difficult and complex. Let us try not turn it into a dead 
end  because  of  our  uncertainties,  our  scepticism,  our 
particular interests and our intransigence. Argentina is 
commited  to  working  more  constructively  to  achieve 
reform with the President, with Ambassador Tanin and 
with all States Members of the United Nations.
Mr. Sareer (Maldives): I wish to express our deepest 
appreciation to Ambassador Liu Jieyi, current President 
of the Security Council, for preparing and introducing 
the report of the Security Council (A/68/2) under this 
agenda  item.  We  thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan  for  his  dedicated  efforts  during  the  past 
session as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  and  congratulate  him  on 
his reappointment to lead the negotiations.
Sixty-eight  years  ago,  we  reaffirmed  our  faith  in 
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of 
the human person and in the equal rights of men and 
women and of nations large and small. We established 
the  Organization  while  reaffirming  the  fundamental 
principle  of  the  equality  of  all  its  Members.  The 
13-55318
13/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
Organization shone as a beacon of hope in the darkness 
of war and poverty. It stood for international peace, an 
arena where every person, regardless of race, class or 
belief, was heard, and for international cooperation to 
achieve freedom from want and freedom from fear.
Yet  today,  the  Organization’s  biggest  challenge  is 
to remain relevant, not because its aims and objectives 
have  been  deemed  irrelevant,  but  because  the  power 
dynamics within the United Nations governance system 
do not represent its increased membership, nor do they 
reflect the realities of the world we live in today.
The  Maldives  has  been  at  the  forefront  of  calls 
for  reforming  the  Security  Council  since  1979.  Like 
other Member States, the Maldives is of the view that 
a comprehensive reform and expansion of the Security 
Council  are  essential  to  making  the  Security  Council 
democratic in composition, effective in decision-making 
and accountable to the general membership. We believe 
that  Council  reform  should  transcend  current  global 
power  politics  and  that  decisions  need  to  reflect  the 
collective will of the general membership.
the  Council’s  decisions.  Making 
Reform should not only be based on contemporary 
realities but should also take into account the outcome 
of 
the  Council 
more  representative  and  balanced  and  its  work  more 
effective  and  transparent,  especially  with  regard  to 
its  decision-making  process,  is  vital  to  adapting  the 
United Nations to the global realities of the twenty-first 
century. It should be implemented in strict compliance 
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
that 
The  Maldives  believes 
the  expanded 
membership of the Security Council should come from 
both developing and developed countries, including from 
small States, and that it should include the participation 
of countries so as to reflect the diverse membership of 
the United Nations. We believe that such an expansion 
should  include  Japan  and  India  among  the  permanent 
members. Geographic representation on its own should 
not  be  a  deciding  factor  in  determining  permanent 
membership in the Council. Other considerations, such 
as a country’s ability to contribute to the maintenance 
of international peace and security and its commitment 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
democracy, should be taken on board as well.
Concurrently  with  but  separate  from  the  debate 
on  the  long-term  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
Council’s current functioning and working methods are 
key focus areas for the Maldives. As part of the cross-
regional  accountability,  coherence  and  transparency 
group,  the  Maldives  firmly  believes  that  those  three 
aspects  are  key  traits  that  need  to  be  reflected  in  the 
Council’s work and in its relationship with the General 
Assembly today.
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the 
Security  Council  acts  on  behalf  of  all  of  the  Member 
States.  Members  are  mandated  to  accept  and  carry 
out  the  Council’s  decisions.  Therefore,  the  request 
of  Member  States  to  be  informed  and,  to  the  extent 
possible,  be  involved  in  the  decision-making  process 
is  legitimate.  Every  Member  State  has  that  right  and 
responsibility, which generates more credibility for the 
Council and more ownership of its decisions. Moreover, 
the  Council  would  undoubtedly  benefit  from  a  wide 
range of ideas and the support of the membership. 
We are heartened that, during the reporting period, 
the Council endeavoured to hold more public meetings 
and  wrap-up  meetings  in  an  effort  to  increase  its 
transparency. We are also encouraged by the monthly 
briefings by Council Presidents on the Council’s work. 
However,  we  ask  both  members  and  non-members  of 
the Council to critically and proactively reflect on the 
month’s work in the wrap-up meetings. We also ask that 
the disparity between the permanent and non-permanent 
members be eliminated. It remains a fundamental flaw 
in  that  some  negotiations  and  briefings  have  been 
limited to the permanent members alone.
The  Maldives  remains  wholeheartedly  committed 
to this process and calls for flexibility and the broadest 
possible  political  acceptance 
in  proceeding  with 
the  negotiations.  We  must  be  united  in  bringing  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  forward  and  finding  a 
solution that is acceptable to all. It is our earnest hope 
that consensus will be reached in that way.
The  Maldives  is  a  firm  believer  in  the  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
are  a  staunch  supporter  of  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law,  equality  and  justice.  We  believe  in  the  purposes 
of  the  United  Nations  and  that  the  world  needs  such 
an  Organization  today  more  than  ever.  However,  to 
fulfil  its  promise  to  live  up  to  the  expectations  of  its 
Members and of every citizen it represents, and to deal 
with  the  complex  challenges  of  the  world  we  live  in, 
the Organization must take drastic measures to remain 
relevant by reforming itself.
14/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  I  thank  the  President 
for convening this important annual debate on the two 
interconnected issues, namely, the report of the Security 
Council (A/68/2) and Security Council reform.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46). 
thank  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  Permanent 
Representative  of  China  and  current  President  of  the 
Security Council, for introducing the Council’s annual 
report  covering  the  period  from  1  August  2012  to 
31 July 2013.
We 
is  entrusted  with 
The  Security  Council 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  by 
the whole of the United Nations. The Council thus has 
the  responsibility  to  inform  all  Member  States  of  its 
deliberations,  decisions  and  actions  in  a  meaningful, 
open  and  transparent  manner.  The  Council’s  annual 
report  is  a  constructive  effort  towards  that  end. 
However,  in  addition  to  useful  information  and  the 
chronology  of  events  contained  in  the  document,  a 
more analytical report, providing the rationale behind 
the  Council’s  decisions  and  explanations  when  action 
by the Council was not possible, would have enhanced 
the understanding of the wider membership.
Indonesia  notes  the  Council’s  good  efforts  on 
making  its  meetings  more  accessible  to  the  broader 
United  Nations  membership.  We  also  appreciate 
its  seriousness  in  defusing  numerous  challenges  to 
international  peace  and  security.  However,  on  certain 
issues  the  Council’s  inaction  threatens  regional  and 
global  peace  and  the  norms  set  out  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, international law and humanitarian 
law.
In  that  regard,  it  is  a  matter  of  urgency  that  the 
Council  address  the  question  of  Palestine  fairly.  We 
sincerely hope that the Council can be on the right side 
of history by enabling the realization of the legitimate, 
inalienable  rights  and  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people.  The  conflict  in  Syria,  with  its  continuing 
bloodshed,  is  another  very  serious  situation  awaiting 
the Council’s immediate action. Indonesia reiterates its 
call  for  an  immediate  cessation  of  all  violence  by  all 
sides, for ensuring impartial and effective aid delivery 
to  those  in  urgent  need  and  for  the  promotion  of  an 
inclusive political process that reflects the wishes of all 
the Syrian people.
As  called  for  by  world  leaders  in  the  2005  World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  the  early  reform 
of the Security Council is an essential element of the 
overall effort to reform of the United Nations so as to 
make the Council more broadly representative, efficient 
and transparent, and thus to enhance its effectiveness 
and the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions. 
Indonesia  fully  supports  collective  efforts  towards 
realizing  that  noble  goal  at  the  earliest  possible  date. 
That is why we also favour the  early convening of the 
annual debate today.
My delegation welcomes the reappointment of His 
Excellency Ambassador Zahir Tanin as the Chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations. We hope that under his 
able stewardship, supported by the political will of all 
countries,  we  will  be  able  to  make  progress  on  vital 
issues on which convergence has so far eluded us. 
Indonesia  notes  the  President’s  decision  to  invite 
six permanent representatives to serve on an advisory 
group.  Although  we  see  the  rationale  for  establishing 
that group in the context of contributing positively to 
the  process,  it  is  crucial  to  ensure  that  the  nature  of 
intergovernmental negotiations as a process driven by 
Member States is respected and upheld. That also means 
that the principles of inclusivity, transparency and the 
broadest possible acceptance are at the forefront of any 
initiatives that may affect the course of the negotiations. 
Indonesia  emphasizes  that  the  voice  of  every  State  is 
equally important in all matters pertaining to Council 
reform.  It  is  necessary  that  all  the  positions  of  the 
Member States, not just those of groupings, be reflected 
in any basis for negotiations. 
Indonesia’s perspective on Council reform has been 
mentioned on numerous occasions. We underscore that, 
to  better  reflect  today’s  realities,  the  Council  needs 
to  be  more  effective,  accountable,  democratic  and 
representative  of  the  world’s  plurality.  In  striving  for 
reform, we must uphold the integrity of the consensus-
based decision 62/557 by ensuring that the reform will 
be  comprehensive.  Any  approaches  that  address  only 
selected  issues  out  of  the  five  key  issues  should  be 
avoided. We reiterate that the reform should be based 
on a true consensus, or at least on the greatest possible 
political  acceptance,  well  beyond 
two-thirds 
majority.
the 
Although  the  deliberations  at  the  sixty-seventh 
session were essential, they did not bring us closer to 
convergence. There remain fundamental differences as 
13-55318
15/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
to the membership, categories, size and veto. In the light 
of that fact, Indonesia deems it timely that Ambassador 
Tanin’s  proposal 
intermediate 
models, which might provide a middle way forward, be 
considered as well.
to  further  discuss 
In conclusion, I would like to underline Indonesia’s 
commitment  to  continuing  to  work  closely  with  all 
Member States in order to achieve a tangible reform of 
the Council.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  We  are  especially  thankful 
for  the  President’s  convening  of  this  meeting  to 
debate  agenda  item  29,  concerning  the  annual  report 
of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2),  and  agenda  item 
123, concerning Security Council reform. We are also 
grateful  to  the  representative  of  China,  as  President 
of the Security Council, for introducing the Council’s 
annual  report,  and  to  the  President  for  his  personal 
commitment  to  advancing  the  cause  of  the  Security 
Council  reform  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-eighth 
session.
Nigeria  remains  committed  in  its  desire  for  an 
inclusive,  comprehensive  and  holistic 
reform  of 
the  Security  Council  in  terms  of  its  size,  scope  and 
composition. The 1965 reform of the Council, despite 
the best of intentions, was carried out to the exclusion 
of  the  majority  of  the  current  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations.  Indeed,  the  process  addressed  only 
the  expansion  of  the  Council  in  the  non-permanent 
category.  The  search  for  an  effective  way  to  address 
those factors has informed Nigeria’s active participation 
in the intergovernmental negotiations process.
While we welcome the appointment of an advisory 
group  to  advise  the  President  on  that  very  important 
matter,  we  also  wish  to  observe  that  its  work  should 
not  be  definitive  and  should  not  supplant  the  work  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which,  as  its  name 
suggests,  is  intergovernmental  and  sanctioned  by 
Member  States.  It  is  our  expectation  that  substantial 
progress  will  be  achieved  during  the  current  session 
under the leadership of President Ashe. We believe that 
the time has come for us to achieve concrete results on 
those elements in which consensus has emerged during 
the  negotiations.  That  is  underscored  by  the  fact  that 
the majority of Member States crave a timely reform of 
the Security Council in accordance with the objectives 
set out by the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1) and the 2000 Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2).
The current underrepresentation of Africa is a lucid 
demonstration  of  the  lack  of  equity  in  the  Security 
Council.  A  region  with  54  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations remains unrepresented in the permanent 
category of membership in the Council. Nor has it fared 
any better in the non-permanent category, where it has 
only three seats. Any proposals that seek to jeopardize 
Africa’s  legitimate  demand  for  representation  in  the 
permanent  member  category  will  meet  neither  global 
expectations  nor,  for  that  matter,  Africa’s  aspirations. 
The  inclusion  of  other  regions,  such  as  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  Asian  region 
and  the  small  island  developing  States,  currently  also 
underrepresented  in  each  category,  should  also  be 
given the deserved consideration. We therefore support 
a  comprehensive  reform  in  both  categories  to  reflect 
current global realities.
As  stakeholders,  we  must  collectively  strive  to 
bridge  the  apparent  gaps  created  by  our  differing 
views.  The  negotiating  process  should  remain  open, 
transparent  and  inclusive  and  should  be  conducted  in 
a spirit of flexibility that facilitates the attainment of 
a compromise solution. To that end, the preponderance 
of  views  and  positions  expressed  by  Member  States, 
including  Nigeria,  is  for  an  expansion  of  the  Council 
in both the permanent and non-permanent categories.
The  reform  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  is 
another  area  that  requires  attention,  particularly  with 
regard  to  transparency  and  accountability.  During  its 
horizon-scanning,  special  care  must  be  employed  to 
operate within the principles of good-neighbourliness, 
and  especially  with  respect  for  the  independence  and 
sovereignty  of  all  Member  States  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and extant rules of international law. We acknowledge 
efforts in that direction but maintain that there is scope 
for  improvement.  Similarly,  we  support  an  enhanced 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council,  also  in  accordance  with  Charter 
provisions.
We  ardently  believe  that  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  subregional 
organizations  should  be  an  ongoing  and  dynamic 
process so that the benefits of such cooperation can be 
reaped  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  We  therefore  advocate  closer  cooperation 
between the African Union Peace and Security Council 
and the United Nations Security Council, under Charter 
16/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
provisions, to more effectively address and implement 
strategic decisions.
in 
Let me assure all Member States that Nigeria will 
guard  and  protect  the  mandate  that  it  has  been  given 
to  return  to  the  Security  Council  and  place  it  in  the 
service not only of Africa but of the entire international 
community.  Our  efforts 
the  Council  will  be 
characterized  by  solidarity,  cooperation,  commitment 
and  consultation.  We  believe  that  through  forthright 
determination  we  can  all  stand  and  muster 
the 
desired political will that will lead to the achievement 
of  a  reformed  Security  Council.  We  have  spoken 
exhaustively  on  the  issue.  It  is  time  to  put  our  words 
into action without vacillation. All Member States have 
a stake in the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  We  must  remain  active  participants  in  the 
process.
Mr. Spinellis (Greece): I would like first of all to 
congratulate the President of the General Assembly on 
his  decision  to  reappoint  Ambassador  Tanin  as  Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  issue  of 
Security  Council  reform.  It  is  everyone’s  hope  and 
belief  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
will  achieve  a  much-needed  breakthrough,  escaping 
finally  from  the  well  of  stagnation  to  its  long-sought 
fruitful  outcome.  My  country  is  prepared  to  work 
constructively in promoting our common endeavour.
My country’s stand on the issue of Security Council 
reform  has  been  very  clearly  expressed  on  multiple 
occasions. We are in favour of expanding the Council in 
both existing categories of membership, permanent and 
non-permanent, and of improving its working methods. 
We  hope  that  it  can  be  achieved  without  the  issue  of 
the veto impeding progress in any of the key issues of 
reform.
Over  the  past  few  years,  we  have  witnessed  time 
and  time  again  a  never-ending  reiteration  of  already 
well-known  positions.  Many  diverging  views  were 
expressed, which were all deserving and of merit and 
included useful arguments that should always be borne 
in mind.
However, the discussion phase of the negotiations 
has gone on for too long. I am confident that we all stand 
united when we say that it is high time for the reform 
process to move forward in a concrete way. The reform 
has to become an objective within reach. The stalemate 
has  to  come  to  an  end.  It  is  with  that  vital  necessity 
in  mind  that  we  welcome  and  support  the  President’s 
decision  to  establish  an  advisory  group  to  reflect  the 
ideas  put  forward  in  the  negotiations  thus  far  and  to 
highlight  the  options  available.  We  believe  that  this 
initiative could actually create the highly sought-after 
momentum necessary to break out of the stalemate.
In concluding, I would like to express my country’s 
steadfast  conviction  that  we  can  achieve  concrete 
progress  during  the  current  session.  Reforming  the 
Security Council is more urgent today than ever before, 
and  becomes  even  more  urgent  with  every  passing 
day, as the Council must meet the challenges posed by 
global  realities  that  have  outpaced  it  over  the  past  50 
years.  Compromising  its  legitimacy  and  efficiency  is 
not an option. Let us be flexible and pragmatic, bridge 
our differences and get the job done.
Mr. Arias (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): My delegation 
welcomes  the  opportunity  offered  to  us  in  this  joint 
debate on the annual report of the Security Council to 
the General Assembly (A/68/2) and on the question of 
Security Council reform.
In  connection  with  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly covering the period 
from  1  August  2012  to  31  July  2013,  I  welcome  the 
statement by the Permanent Representative of China as 
President of the Council, and I thank the United States 
for the preparation of the introduction.
the  Security  Council  and 
Spain attaches great importance to good interaction 
between 
the  General 
Assembly. The cooperation between the two principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  must  be  improved.  It  is 
therefore essential to ensure a high level of transparency 
in  the  Council’s  work  and  greater  participation  by  all 
Member States in the Council’s activities and decisions, 
especially on issues that directly affect them. Only thus 
will  the  essential  political  and  moral  authority  of  the 
Security Council be reinforced. I believe we are headed 
in the right direction, but I encourage Member States 
to  continue  to  adapt  the  work  of  the  Council  to  the 
demands of an international society that is increasingly 
democratic and dynamic.
I  turn  now  to  the  question  of  Security  Council 
reform.  The  Spanish  delegation  fully  endorses  the 
statement made by the representative of Italy on behalf 
of the Uniting for Consensus Group (see A/68/PV.46), 
and I would like to make the following comments in my 
national capacity.
I want to express Spain’s gratitude for the interest 
with  which  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
13-55318
17/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
has  dealt  with  an  item  of  such  priority  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  We  are  operating  on  the  basis  of 
our  shared  conviction  that  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council should not be delayed much longer. The organ 
with  the  primary  responsibilty  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  must  adapt  to 
the  demands  of  the  twenty-first  century,  which  are 
radically different from the circumstances at the time 
of the Organization’s birth, in 1945.
The purposes and principles of the United Nations 
have  without  doubt  remained  the  same  from  the  very 
beginning  of  the  Organization  to  today.  However, 
achieving  them  requires  a  revitalization  or  reform  of 
its principal organs, which, in the case of the Security 
Council,  means,  among  other  important  aspects,  an 
expansion  that  allows  for  greater  participation  by 
Members of the Organization. International peace and 
security  are  everyone’s  responsibility,  and  thus  all  of 
us as Member States are lawfully called on to increase 
our participation in the work of ensuring that they are 
maintained.
The  process  leading  to  Security  Council  reform 
should  scrupulously  comply  with  the  procedures  that 
the  General  Assembly  has  laid  out  in  the  exercise  of 
its  legal  atributes.  All  opinions  are,  without  a  doubt, 
equally  worthy  of  respect.  All  must  be  heard  and 
taken into account, and we must all work to achieve a 
convergence between them that leads us to a successful 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  —  because,  members 
will agree, it will not do to have just any reform.
It  would  not  do,  for  example,  to  have  a  reform 
that  disregards  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  African 
countries  as  a  whole  for  greater  representation  and 
more weight in the Security Council. That is precisely 
one of the key elements that we must be able to ensure. 
The reform would also be a failure if it disregarded the 
aspirations of small countries to be able to increase their 
chances  of  serving  on  the  Council.  It  would  be  born 
lacking the necessary legitimacy if it were implemented 
against the will of countries that have large populations 
and a significant international impact.
The  challenge  is  to  achieve  a  Security  Council 
that  is  more  democratic  and  inclusive.  That  task  is 
absolutely  incumbent  upon  everyone  and  should  be 
facilitated  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
John  Ashe,  and  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, Ambassador Zahir Tanin. I greet both of 
them  warmly.  I  wish  them  much  success  in  this  new 
phase, and I assure them that they will always be able to 
count on the Permanent Representative of Spain having 
a positive attitude in this process.
Our common goal must be to achieve a reform that 
reasonably  satisfies  all  Members  of  the  Organization 
and that guarantees that absolutely all of us win. To that 
end, it is indispensable — but not sufficient — that we 
stick to the rules set out in decision 62/557.
I  would  now  like  to  refer  to  the  letter  from 
President Ashe dated 22 October, which is incontestable 
proof of his commendable desire to make progress in 
the reform of the Council. As the Uniting for Consensus 
Group  expressed  in  its  letter  dated  31  October,  his 
decision,  without  prior  notice,  to  create  an  advisory 
group gave us great pause and was cause for concern, 
because we did not understand the nature of his goals. 
Subsequent  public  interpretations  of  his  ultimate  aim 
added strong concern to our initial bewilderment. We 
therefore  welcome  the  explanations  President  Ashe 
provided  to  us  during  the  meeting  he  agreed  to  have 
with Uniting for Consensus yesterday, in kind response 
to our request.
He confirmed to us the purely consultative nature 
of  the  support  mechanism  that  he  has  established  for 
himself as President of the General Assembly. He also 
assured us that the group lacked a negotiating role and that 
its mandate was not to prepare any kind of document to 
serve as a basis for the intergovernmental negotiations. 
In other words, the advisory group will not circumvent 
the intergovernmental negotiations — indeed, it cannot 
be  otherwise.  Relieved  by  that  explanation,  we  will 
closely follow the group’s proceedings.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  affirming  that  the 
General Assembly can count on Spain as a delegation 
that is ready to negotiate. We believe that the position 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  best  meets  the 
aspirations  of  the  vast  majority  of  Members  of  the 
Organization.  For  that  reason,  we  not  only  support 
debate  but  also  aspire  to  being  able  to  draw  many 
members to our position.
Mr. Khiari (Tunisia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We hope that, with the guidance of the President of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  unfailing  and  valuable 
cooperation  of  Ambassador  Tanin,  we  can  help  to 
establish a firm basis for this session to move towards 
or to reach an agreement that deserves the support of 
the entire membership of the Organization. We will all 
be most grateful to them for that.
18/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
Mr.  Maope  (Lesotho):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this important meeting. Allow me to thank 
the Permanent Representative of China, in his capacity 
as President of the Security Council for the month of 
November,  for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/68/2) before this body (see A/68/PV.46). I also thank 
the United States for preparing the introduction of the 
report at hand.
are concerned that there seems to be no elaboration on 
what impact, if any, those public meetings have had on 
the work of the Council. Public meetings are not held 
merely  for  the  sake  of  accommodating  non-Council 
members. The general views of non-Council members 
that  participated  in  such  meetings  and  the  extent  to 
which such views have been of value to the work of the 
Council must be clearly articulated.
I align myself with the statements delivered at this 
morning’s  meeting  by  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Sierra  Leone  and  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group and the Non-Aligned Movement, respectively. I 
wish to make a few remarks in my national capacity.
Having  listened  to  the  presentation  of  the  report 
of  the  Security  Council  on  its  activities  from  August 
2012 to July 2013, one is inclined to acknowledge that, 
indeed, the peace that our forebears sought by creating 
the  United  Nations  68  years  ago  is  yet  to  become  a 
reality.  The  prevalence  of  political  instability  and 
armed conflicts, as highlighted in the report, continues 
to  contribute  more 
the  global  socioeconomic 
decline and the suffering of our peoples. However, it is 
encouraging to note that the Security Council remained 
resolute in discharging its mandate under the Charter of 
the United Nations during the reporting period.
to 
My  delegation  notes  with  appreciation  the  fact 
that  the  quality  of  the  annual  reports  of  the  Council 
continues  to  improve.  We  can  only  encourage  the 
Council to further enhance the quality of future annual 
reports, as appropriate. Allow me to make the following 
few points, which my delegation considers pertinent in 
that endeavour.
The  introduction  of  the  Council’s  annual  reports 
to  the  General  Assembly  must  be  seen  not  only  as 
a  fulfilment  of  Charter  obligations  but  also,  most 
important, as the provision of a platform for all Member 
States to present their views on how the Council could 
further enrich the way in which it conducts its business. 
It is the view of my delegation that the reports of the 
Council  should  be  not  only  a  recitation  of  events  and 
meetings that took place during a given period, as well 
as the action taken. They should also be more analytical 
and expound on the challenges that the Council faces 
in the execution of its mandate and how it proposes to 
solve them.
Furthermore,  we  note  that  there  has  been  an 
increase in the number of public meetings held during 
the period in question. While that is a welcome step, we 
As a way of improving engagement with the general 
United  Nations  membership  and  other  stakeholders, 
we propose that the Council should consider utilizing 
other platforms, such as Arria Formula meetings. That 
will promote transparency, and thus bridge differences 
between Member States and the Council. The Security 
Council,  which  acts  on  behalf  of  all  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations,  should  ensure  that  the  voices 
of  those  that  it  represents  are  not  only  heard  but  also 
heeded.
The  importance  of  the  Council  undertaking  field 
missions  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Such  missions 
afford  the  Council  opportunities  to  relate  to  the  facts 
on the ground in respect of the situations before it. We 
encourage the Council to continue such missions and to 
increase them in number, as appropriate. We hope that 
that practice will assist the Council in making informed 
decisions.
We note that the Council’s agenda continues to be 
dominated by peace and security issues in Africa. As 
such, we call for a stronger partnership and collaboration 
between  the  Council  and  the  African  Union,  in  line 
with the Charter of the United Nations. The primacy of 
the Council in the maintenance of international peace 
and security is beyond dispute. Nevertheless, increased 
support  for  African  ownership  of  peace  initiatives  on 
the  continent  is  desirable.  Cooperation  between  both 
institutions  should  be  based  on  mutual  respect  and 
complementarity.  That  partnership  should  be  viewed 
in  its  wider  strategic  context,  which  is  to  harness  the 
comparative  strengths  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union for optimal outcomes in the service of 
humankind.
Allow  me  at  this  juncture  to  turn  to  the  question 
of  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  have  no 
doubt  that  the  personal  commitment  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  Security  Council 
reform process will advance our course. My delegation 
welcomes  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  as 
the  facilitator  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We assure him of our full support and cooperation.
13-55318
19/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
We  cannot  remain  complacent  about  the  reform 
of the Council. It is not an easy task. The plethora of 
proposals  and  positions  put  forward  thus  far,  some 
of  which  are  seemingly  irreconcilable,  speaks  to  the 
complexity  of  the  reform  process.  Twenty  years  of 
deliberations have not produced any broadly supported 
comprehensive solution. The main issue for us today is 
how we give impetus to the reform process.
It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation  that  we  must 
remain  focused  on  our  shared  objectives.  Reforming 
the  Security  Council  is  not  merely  about  increasing 
the  stature  and  influence  of  new  members  within  the 
United  Nations  system.  Rather,  it  is  meant  to  ensure 
that we have a Council that is not only reflective of the 
modern-day  geopolitical  realities  but  also  transparent 
and  democratic.  It  is  time  to  correct  the  historical 
injustice  done  to  Africa  by  creating  new  permanent 
seats  for  the  continent  and  by  increasing  its  seats  in 
the non-permanent category in line with the Ezulwini 
Consensus.
Attempts  to  further  slow  down  the  process  must 
be resisted. At the same time, we must be careful not 
to  put  the  viability  of  negotiations  at  risk  by  pushing 
for immediate results through the submission of draft 
resolutions  that  propose  a  piecemeal  reform  of  the 
Council. We advocate a comprehensive reform process 
in  line  with  decision  62/557.  Our  discussions  going 
forward should be guided by a desire to accommodate 
each other as we seek a model for an all-inclusive and 
effective Council that commands legitimacy.
We note the importance of having a text to guide 
the intergovernmental negotiations process. Without a 
real basis for negotiations, real progress will continue 
to  elude  us.  We  furthermore  note  the  creation  of  an 
advisory  group  to  the  President  that  will,  inter  alia, 
produce a basis for the start of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  can  only  hope  that  the  roles  of  the 
facilitator and that of the advisory group will be kept 
distinct in order not to complicate the process further. 
Moreover, we expect that the basis of the negotiations 
that will take place will be carefully crafted. It should 
not undermine or compromise the integrity of Member 
States’ positions. Above all, the process should remain 
Member State-driven.
I wish to conclude by pointing out that the reform 
of the Council is an imperative that we must achieve. 
Our commitment to reform the Council must be proved 
by  our  words  and  deeds. The  time  to  bridge  the  gulf 
between rhetoric and action is now. With the necessary 
political will, we shall triumph.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): At the outset, my delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
important meeting. I wish to confine my statement to 
agenda  item  123,  which  concerns  an  issue  that  is  not 
only important to my delegation but that is very dear 
to the entire international community. In order to save 
time, I shall read out the main elements of my statement. 
The full text will be circulated.
I would like to align my statement with the statement 
made by the representative of Egypt (see A/68/PV.46) 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
My  delegation  also  congratulates  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and related matters.
Malaysia believes that the Security Council needs 
comprehensive reform. With regard to its membership, 
we  support  an  expansion  in  both  categories,  namely, 
those  of  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members. 
That would not only reflect the current United Nations 
membership of 193 Member States, but also the organ’s 
ability  today  to  represent  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States in the maintenance of world peace and security. 
At the same time, we recognize the need for Africa to be 
more  represented.  The  region  features  predominantly 
on the agenda of the Council. Hence, Africa is entitled 
to  have  its  voice  in  the  Council  consistently  and 
continuously heard.
Let me state the obvious: we are getting nowhere. 
As reflected in the numerous statements by the majority 
of Member States throughout the years, it is abundantly 
clear  that  there  is  a  need  to  reform  the  Council.  We 
have  called  for  greater  efficiency  and  transparency 
in  its  working  methods.  We  have  insisted  that  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  be  expanded  to 
reflect the realities of today’s world. We have adamantly 
called for better geographical representation. We agree 
that there is a need to move forward. However, as soon 
as  one  attempts  to  take  a  step,  objections  are  quickly 
and vociferously expressed. We are therefore left in a 
conundrum of urging all to move forward, yet frowning 
upon those who actually attempt to do so.
Tracing its roots back to resolution 47/62, this issue 
has for far too long been on the agenda of the General 
20/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
Assembly  without  any  sign  of  real  progress.  We  feel 
that, in order for progress to be made, Member States 
must be willing to compromise and show considerable 
flexibility.  Only  then  can  we  stand  any  chance  of 
inching forward.
My delegation is certain that there are goals that we 
are all in favour of. Rather than on concentrating on the 
divergence of views that separate us, why not focus on 
the similarities that would enable us to achieve tangible 
results?  Last  year,  we  could  also  taste  some  progress 
being  made  with  the  initiative  of  the  group  of  five 
small nations (S-5). Unfortunately, its draft resolution 
(A/66/L.42/Rev.2) was withdrawn at the eleventh hour 
(see  A/66/PV.108),  leading  us  to  where  we  are  now. 
Maybe we should revisit some of the proposals under 
the S-5 initiative.
In  that  regard,  Malaysia  believes  that  progress 
on  improving  the  Council’s  working  methods  is 
possible  in  a  relatively  shorter  time  frame.  The  notes 
by the President of the Security Council contained in 
documents  S/2010/507  and  S/2013/515  are  essential 
references  that  could  pave  a  practical  way  forward  to 
address  the  shortcomings  in  the  working  methods  of 
the  Council.  More  recently,  the  Council  convened  an 
open  debate  on  that  topic  (see  S/PV.7052),  with  many 
useful inputs and views from Member States on ways 
to enhance its transparency, efficiency and interaction 
with  non-Council  members.  The  debate  reflected 
the  continued  interest  of  the  wider  United  Nations 
membership towards the Council’s working methods.
We welcome the increase in the number of public 
meetings and appreciate the Council’s readiness to take 
on board the views and contributions of non-members, 
as  well  as  regional  and  subregional  organizations.  In 
that regard, Malaysia hopes to see the Council continue 
with  the  well-established  practice  of  convening  open 
debates.  We  commend  the  Council  for  maintaining 
consultations  with 
regular 
country-specific 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
configurations 
countries. 
We  also  welcome  the  wrap-up  meetings  at  the  end  of 
presidencies and the holding of Arria Formula meetings, 
which are some of the methods being used to enhance 
closer interaction with non-Council members.
troop-contributing 
and 
communication 
and 
While  we  aspire  to  become  a  non-permanent 
Council member in 2015, Malaysia cannot help but be 
worried in cases where the permanent members convene 
discussions  first,  before  decisions  are  conveyed  and 
drafts shared with the rest of the members of the Council 
very close to adoption. Similarly, we are also concerned 
at the selection process of chairs of subsidiary bodies 
of the Council. Malaysia is of the view that all Council 
members  are  eligible  and  qualified  to  fulfil  those 
functions,  and  that  non-permanent  members  should 
therefore be increasingly appointed to some of the key 
posts.
is 
Another  area  of  concern 
the  continuous 
encroachment  of  the  Security  Council  upon  matters 
that  clearly  fall  under  the  prerogative  of  the  General 
Assembly. All principal organs of the United Nations, 
particularly  the  two  leading  organs  —  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council — must faithfully 
respect  each  other’s  mandates  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Taking 
the  entrenched  position 
that  Security 
Council  reform  should  take  the  form  of  a  composite 
package runs the risk of stallling reform for many years 
to  come.  Perhaps  it  is  time  that  we  address  the  issue 
of  working  methods  and,  for  the  time  being,  keep  it 
separate from the debate on the reform of the Council’s 
membership.  We  should  do  so  by  focusing  on  certain 
aspects, or what my delegation describes as low-lying 
fruits,  which  does  not  require  amending  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  That  could  be  done  without 
prejudging  the  final  outcome  of  the  overall  reform 
package.
We could start by looking into some of the topics 
currently  being  worked  on  by  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group.  That  does  not 
necessarily mean that we should look at all the topics 
in  parallel  —  maybe  less  contentious  ones  at  the 
outset.  In  short,  whatever  we  can  agree  to  and  adopt 
would be a good enough starting point when compared 
to  achieving  absolutely  nothing.  That  is  exactly  what 
we have managed all these years. We believe that any 
breakthrough,  although  small  in  the  eyes  of  the  rest 
of the world, would finally put us on the path towards 
Security Council reform.
Ambassador  Tanin  made  both  of  those  proposals 
on how to move forward in a letter on 27 July 2012. As 
my delegation has mentioned before, the letter captured 
well the current state of play vis-à-vis Security Council 
reform.  As  we  approach  2015,  10  years  after  the 
2005 World Summit, in which our leaders committed 
themselves  to  an  early  reform  of  the  Council,  we 
cannot continue in the manner of the past nine rounds 
13-55318
21/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
of  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  cannot  simply 
engage  in  mere  statement-reading  sessions  and  hope 
that  we  might  make  progress.  It  seems  obvious  that 
the reason that there is a lack of momentum is because 
States do not have a negotiating text before them. My 
delegation would disagree that a proposal last year for 
a working document as a basis for negotiations did not 
enjoy  the  support  of  the  wider  membership.  On  the 
contrary,  it  was  clear  that  many  delegations  were  in 
favour  of  moving  forward  in  that  manner.  A  Member 
State-driven process, with the Chair drafting a working 
document,  would  make  the  text  legitimate.  Only  then 
would  we  be  able  to  conduct  actual  negotiations  and 
identify areas where differences could be bridged.
Malaysia takes note of the President’s decision to 
establish an advisory group made up of six permanent 
members to assist him in producing a basis for the start 
of intergovernmental negotiations that reflect the ideas 
put forward by Member States thus far. We appreciate 
the  clarification  that  the  group  is  advisory  in  nature 
and  does  not  have  a  negotiating  role.  We  understand 
that some members have concerns about the nature of 
the group and its relations with the intergovernmental 
negotiation  process.  In  that  connection,  Malaysia  is 
of the view that the advisory group should in no way 
undermine  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  or  the 
framework provided by decision 62/557.
In  conclusion,  we  need  to  make  real  progress 
and  move  away  from  entrenched  national  and  group 
positions.  In  the  coming  months,  progress  will  be 
measured  not  only  by  the  sheer  determination  of 
those  who  wish  to  see  the  process  move  forward,  but 
by  the  flexibility  of  delegations  to  see  opportunities 
rather  than  obstacles  towards  the  path  on  which  we 
have  embarked.  I  wish  to  assure  the  President  of  my 
delegation’s support and cooperation to work with him 
and other members in that regard.
Mr. Lazarev (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): In school 
classrooms  around  the  world,  everyone  knows  that 
the  Security  Council  bears  the  primary  responsibility 
for maintaining international peace and security. It is 
indisputable that this Charter body, established almost 
70 years ago, has throughout its history adopted a large 
number  of  decisions  that  have  led  to  the  achievement 
of invaluable results — saving human lives, preventing 
and ending international conflicts and restoring peace 
and  stability  in  different  regions  and  countries.  The 
modern  world  needs  an  effective  Security  Council 
that is capable of having an effective mechanism that 
responds swiftly to crisis situations.
It  would  be  hard  to  find  representatives  in  the 
Hall  today  who  did  not  understand  the  importance  of 
carrying  out  Security  Council  reform.  However,  our 
views  diverge,  perhaps  about  how,  when  and  by  what 
means  those  changes  can  be  made.  Unfortunately,  in 
recent  years,  the  General  Assembly  has  been  unable 
to  move  closer  towards  an  answer  to  those  questions. 
Moreover,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
reform of the Council have been going on for more than 
a decade now, and it would be hard to find a delegation 
that is satisfied by the pace and outcome of the process.
To achieve the goals that have been set out, we need 
to show political will and flexibility. At the same time, 
any hasty actions that are not based on incorporating the 
interests of all groups of States could easily undermine 
the  process  and  have  a  negative  impact  on  its  further 
progress.  We  advocate  for  a  Security  Council  reform 
that would lead to a more balanced and fair diplomatic 
landscape.
We support expanding the Council’s membership by 
providing all regional groups with additional seats on the 
Council. We draw attention to the underrepresentation 
of the Eastern European Group among non-permanent 
member States of the Council. We reiterate the position 
of Belarus that our Group of countries should be given 
an additional non-permanent seat on the Council.
It  is  important  to  continue  efforts  to  increase 
transparency in the work of the Council. Transparency 
leads to a greater degree of confidence and respect for 
the Council’s work. We draw attention to the increased 
number  of  open  meetings  in  the  Council,  which 
undoubtedly gives all Member States an opportunity to 
contribute to the Council’s work.
We  also  think  it  is  right  to  think  about  how  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  can  better  reflect  the 
views expressed by non-Council member States during 
its open debates.
In our view, we need to review the entire process 
of preparing for the Council’s reform and to begin that 
today,  without  waiting  for  results.  It  is  time  to  move 
forward from words to deeds. We need to take the first 
real step towards that by determining the foundations 
on which successful negotiations will be based.
The 
delegation 
the 
reappointment  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
of  Belarus 
supports 
22/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
Afghanistan, Ambassador Zahir Tanin, as Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and  stands  ready  to 
continue to participate constructively in the negotiating 
process, with a view to achieving the broadest possible 
agreement on the issue among Member States.
Ms. Čolaković (Bosnia and Herzegovina): First, I 
would like to express my delegation’s appreciation for 
the convening of this debate on the question of equitable 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council and related matters, which is one of 
the most longstanding core topics of the Organization.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi 
of  China  for  introducing  (see  A/68/PV.46)  the  report 
of the Security Council (A/68/2) on its activities from 
1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
We would like to reiterate our position with regard 
to the enlargement of the Council, which means that a 
more  equitable  geographic  representation  would  have 
to be observed. It is obvious that the global geopolitical 
situation  has  been  reconfigured  significantly  since 
the  time  the  current  composition  of  the  Council  was 
established. That geopolitical change has also impacted 
my regional group — the Group of Eastern European 
States,  which  consists  of  23  Member  States  with  a 
specific, complex and diverse composition. Therefore, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina firmly believes that our Group 
needs  one  more  elected  seat  on  the  Security  Council 
in  order  to  respond  adequately  to  the  geographic  and 
political demands of its members.
Bosnia and Herzegovina had the honour of serving 
a two-year term as an elected member of the Security 
Council in 2010 and 2011. Our experience proves that 
a  growing  number  of  countries  are  willing  and  able 
to  contribute  to  dealing  with  issues  regarding  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. Bosnia 
and Herzegovina is ready to work with other Member 
States on the issue of enhancing the transparency and 
efficiency of the Security Council’s work. We believe 
the time has come to cease the endless debates, which 
do  not  always  contribute  to  a  rapprochement  in  the 
positions pertaining to Council reform.
We  would  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  on  his  reappointment  as  the  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations, and look forward to an 
energetic and constructive new round of negotiations.
We  welcome  the  President’s  decision  to  establish 
the  advisory  group  of  ambassadors,  announced  in 
his  letter  of  22  October,  which  will  provide  inputs 
and  advise  him  on  this  important  process.  However, 
we  want  to  underline  that  the  advisory  group  lacks 
a  regional  balance.  Although  we  are  sure  that  its 
members’  contribution  and  the  President’s  leadership 
will  remove  any  bottlenecks,  at  the  same  time  we 
believe  that  the  group  should  by  no  means  substitute 
for the intergovernmental negotiations.
It  would  be  a  crucial  development  if  we  could 
step  forward  from  today’s  meeting  with  a  common 
denominator  of  strong  support  for  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  on  which  we  could 
continue  to  build  the  principles  that  could  adequately 
meet  the  aspirations  of  all  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed 
to continue its engagement, together with all Member 
States, to make progress in the negotiations process for 
a  more  equal,  efficient,  transparent  and  epresentative 
Security Council. This is a membership-driven process. 
We call on all Member States to exercise goodwill and a 
spirit of compromise.
Mr.  Lippwe  (Federated  States  of  Micronesia): 
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  welcomes  this 
opportunity to participate in the debate on the agenda 
item  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  related  matters”.  This  is  not  the  first  time  that 
Micronesia has pronounced itself on that very important 
issue, therefore our position is well known.
Let  me,  at 
the  outset,  place  on  record  my 
delegation’s  gratitude  for  the  President’s  stewardship 
and commitment to the very difficult task of reforming 
the  Security  Council.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
the  establishment  of  an  advisory  group  initiated  by 
his  Office,  and  we  embrace  his  decision  to  reappoint 
Ambassador Tanin to allow him to continue his work as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The  delegation  of  Micronesia  also  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  made  at  the  46th  meeting  by  the 
representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis on behalf of the 
L.69 Group, as well as with the statement to be made 
by the representative of Papua New Guinea on behalf of 
the Pacific small island developing States.
At  the  World  Summit  in  2005,  our  Heads  of 
State  and  Government  agreed  to  an  early  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  Almost  10  years  later,  it  is 
regrettable  that  very  little  has  been  done  in  terms  of 
reform. My delegation is very much aware that fatigue 
and  frustration  may  set  in,  as  few  visible  or  tangible 
13-55318
23/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
results are in evidence after so many years of ongoing 
discussions  within  the  Organization  to  reform  the 
Security  Council.  But  we  cannot  let  that  derail  our 
efforts. We must stay the course and remain committed. 
Fortune favours persistence. Even the hardest rock will 
be melted by persistent droplets of water.
therefore 
strongly 
My 
delegation 
believes 
in  and  supports  the  specific  suggestions  that  the 
President  has  put  forward,  which  will  jump-start  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  earnest.  It  is  high 
time  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
move forward on the basis of a text-based negotiation. 
We  welcome  his  initiative  whereby  the  advisory 
group  will  provide  inputs  reflecting  the  ideas  put 
forward  in  the  negotiations,  and  on  whose  basis  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  can  commence.  Given 
the  overwhelming  support  by  Member  States  for  an 
early reform and expansion of the Security Council in 
both the permanent and non-permanent categories, the 
proposal should be included in the draft text as a key 
parameter in the negotiation process.
Global realities make it imperative that we reform 
the  Security  Council.  Nearly  a  decade  after  the  2005 
World  Summit,  when  the  Assembly  was  mandated 
to  deliver  on  Council  reform,  that  goal  has  been 
elusive. The proposal presented to us by the President 
provides a unique opportunity to refocus our attention 
and  to  encourage  an  even  stronger  commitment  by 
Member  States.  With  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
World  Summit  looming  in  2015,  it  is  time  to  bring 
these intergovernmental negotiations to a decisive and 
successful conclusion.
In conclusion, it goes without saying that membership 
in  a  reformed  Security  Council,  particularly  in  the 
permanent  category,  must  include  Brazil,  Germany, 
India  and  Japan.  The  African  continent  must  also  be 
represented.
Mr.  De  Vega  (Philippines):  First  of  all,  we 
wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Ambassador 
John  Ashe  for  convening  this  meeting  and  for  his 
statement  this  morning  (see  A/68/PV.46).  We  also 
join  other  delegations  in  thanking  Ambassador  Liu 
Jieyi of China for introducing the annual report of the 
Security  Council  (A/68/2)  and  the  delegation  of  the 
United  States  for  preparing  its  introduction.  We  also 
congratulate  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan 
for his reappointment as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform.
At the outset, the Philippines aligns itself with the 
statement  made  this  morning  by  the  representative  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The reform of the Security Council is an important 
issue  for  all  of  us  and  a  matter  of  vital  concern  and 
relevance  for  our  Organization.  On  that  point,  the 
Philippines welcomes this timely debate on agenda item 
123,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters.” Indeed, it is in our shared interests 
to ensure that the Security Council is able to respond 
to and anticipate not only traditional issues concerning 
international peace and security, but also emerging new 
ones affecting our common security.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
be a work in progress. Over the decades, we have seen 
several  proposals  that  deserve  careful  consideration. 
Various  permutations  on  broader  representation  and 
increased  membership  in  the  Security  Council  have 
been  offered  in  this  debate.  Different  initiatives  have 
been proposed to move the process along. Yet, to date 
no significant inroads have been made.
Symptomatic of the sentiments on the issue is the 
sovereign decision of a Member State to decline its seat 
on the Security Council for the period 2014-2015. The 
Philippines  recognizes  that  as  a  principled  position 
taken by that country’s Government. We, for one, share 
with it the disappointment over the failure to establish a 
Middle East region free of weapons of mass destruction. 
We  therefore  clearly  need  to  make  advancements  on 
the  issue  of  reform  within  the  Security  Council.  The 
unprecedented action taken by that Member State is in 
fact a clear sign that reforms must be undertaken.
The  Philippines  notes  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council have 
provided a venue for all of us to discuss the proposals at 
hand and an opportunity to have a better appreciation 
of the proposals of the respective groups. We now have 
to  work  on  generating  creative  ideas  that  will  bring 
divergent  streams  of  thoughts  and  interests  together. 
For our part, we would like to highlight the following 
fundamental principles that continue to garner support.
First, efforts to reform the Security Council should 
aim  at  making  it  more  representative,  accountable, 
democratic,  transparent,  efficient,  effective  and  fair 
and even-handed.
Secondly,  the  reform  exercise  should  be  realistic 
and the objectives achievable.
24/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
Thirdly, the reform process must have the broadest 
possible  support,  bearing  in  mind  that  Article  108  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  effectively  gives 
the  five  permanent  members  a  veto,  as  they  have  to 
ratify  amendments  to  the  Charter  for  any  changes  to 
be effected.
Lastly, the removal of the right to the veto of the 
permanent  category  and  permanent  members  is  a 
non-starter.
In  that  regard,  on  the  basis  of  those  principles, 
the  Philippines  wishes  to  highlight  the  following  five 
points.
First, with regard to the categories of membership, 
the  enlargement  in  both  categories  of  membership  on 
the  basis  of  equitable  geographic  distribution  should 
reflect  present  geopolitical  realities.  There  should  be 
a  serious  consideration  of  proposals  for  intermediate 
category seats without prejudice to equitable geographic 
distribution.  Supporting  the  intermediate  category 
seats cannot be construed as abandoning the de facto 
position, since that is just an intermediary arrangement 
that  will  be  reviewed  at  a  predetermined  time.  The 
possibility of creating permanent seats still remains.
Secondly, on the question of the veto, there should 
be  a  restriction  on  the  use  of  the  veto,  including  the 
establishment of procedures for the overriding of a veto. 
In the case of new members, the granting of veto rights 
should  be  accompanied  by  a  commitment  not  to  use 
it until a future review conference. The future review 
conference could explore modalities to counterbalance 
the veto. Furthermore, the use of the veto should not be 
linked to working methods.
Thirdly, on regional representation, more equitable 
geographic  distribution  is  defined  in  Article  23, 
paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations. That 
regional representation is not equivalent to the granting 
of a regional seat leading to regional accountability.
Fourthly, regarding the size of an enlarged Security 
Council,  a  limited  enlargement  must  be  based  on 
criteria  that  balance  equitable  geographic  distribution 
with efficiency and effectiveness. The ideal size would 
be a minimum of 21 members and a maximum of 31. 
The total number must be an odd number to facilitate 
decision-making in the event of a tied vote. The question 
of size could be revisited at a future review conference.
Fifthly, the reform of the working methods should 
be  part  of  any  reform  package.  Enlargement  and 
working  methods  should  be  seen  as  inseparable.  The 
reform of working methods should proceed if there is no 
agreement on other issues, since that does not require 
an amendment to the Charter. Specific areas for change 
include the adoption and circulation of formal rules of 
procedure,  procedures  to  guarantee  transparency  in 
decision-making,  accountability  in  performance  and 
access  to  information,  consultation,  cooperation  and 
an adequate exchange of information with the General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, as well 
as access and increased participation by non-members 
of the Security Council in its work and activities.
The Philippines acknowledges that the President of 
the  General  Assembly  has  initiated  the  establishment 
of  an  advisory  group,  which  he  has  tasked  with  the 
drafting  of  a  negotiation  text  that  adequately  reflects 
all current positions on Council reform. The initiative 
is  certainly  noteworthy.  We  recognize  and  appreciate 
the intent of the President to move the process forward.
However, we have also taken note of the concerns 
expressed  by  delegations  that  the  group  cannot  and 
should  not  bypass  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process.  The  Philippines  emphasizes,  therefore,  that 
while it remains cognizant of the need for serious effort 
and the political will for real change, reform should be 
within the framework of the current intergovernmental 
negotiations process.
Finally, for our part, the Philippines is committed 
to  working  closely  with  other  delegations  not  only 
to  discuss  but  also  to  effect  meaningful  and  positive 
changes in the Security Council. The Philippines stands 
ready  to  work  in  a  positive  and  constructive  manner 
with  other  delegations  in  order  to  make  meaningful 
progress on this issue of vital concern to us all.
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  join  my 
colleagues in thanking the President for convening this 
meeting. Let me also thank the President for his letter 
dated 22 October. Turkey will continue to constructively 
contribute  to  the  discussions  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council, which is of particular importance to 
each and every Member of the United Nations.
I also wish to express our appreciation to the Chinese 
presidency of the Security Council for introducing (see 
A/68/PV.46) the annual report of the Council (A/68/2) 
to the General Assembly, and to the Permanent Mission 
of the United States of America to the United Nations 
for its valuable efforts in preparing the report.
13-55318
25/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
I  also  congratulate  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, 
on his reappointment as Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. We firmly believe that Ambassador Tanin, 
as Chair of those negotiations, will continue to play a 
significant role in the advancement of the process, with 
particular  attention  to  transparency  and  the  Member 
State-driven nature of the negotiations.
The report before us today provides a factual and 
accurate account of the work of the Security Council. 
It demonstrates the diversity of the issues on its agenda 
and the Council’s heavy and increasing workload. We 
support delegations that spoke previously in asking for 
a less descriptive and more analytical report, while, at 
the same time, bearing in mind the difficulties in terms 
of the implementation of such an analytical approach. 
On that note, I would like reiterate our firm belief that 
the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  should 
and  can  be  further  improved  in  order  to  enhance  its 
transparency, accountability and inclusiveness.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
be  the  common  wish  of  all  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.  Despite  our  differing  views,  we  all  wish  to 
see  the  Council  more  adapted  to  the  realities  of  the 
ever-changing  world,  more  democratic  and  more 
representative. A comprehensive reform is a necessity, 
as developments all over the world require the Security 
Council to act swiftly and responsibly in order to meet 
its  obligations.  It  is  our  common  responsibility  to 
preserve  the  credibility  of  our  Organization  and  we, 
the Member States, should spare no effort to that end. 
In that sense, Turkey shares the vision of the President 
expressed  in  his  acceptance  speech  (see  A/67/PV.87) 
and  letter  that  reform  is  an  important  element  of  the 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  Organization  which,  if  they 
fail, might cause it to risk becoming inconsequential.
On  the  other  hand,  we  strongly  believe  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  is  the  sole 
platform  for  a  possible  comprehensive  reform.  Even 
though  we  are  united  in  our  goal,  which  is  an  early 
reform of the Council, the membership remains divided 
on  the  ways  to  reach  that  goal  and  on  the  ultimate 
outcome.  That  is  why  we  should  be  very  careful  and 
refrain from steps that might further widen the existing 
gaps.  In  that  sense,  we  take  note  of  the  recently 
appointed advisory group, which is advisory in nature 
and does not have a negotiating and drafting role, as the 
President of the General Assembly defined in his letter 
and reaffirmed in his meeting with the representatives 
of the Uniting for Consensus Group yesterday. I would 
like to emphasize that such a group should not overstep, 
bypass  or  replace  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
by  embarking  upon  a  drafting  exercise.  On  that  note, 
allow me to conclude by touching on Turkey’s position 
on Security Council reform.
First,  in  terms  of  the  categories  of  membership 
in  the  Council,  Turkey  continues  to  support  the 
compromise  proposal  outlined  in  the  Italy-Colombia 
paper,  which  foresees  the  establishment  of  a  new, 
longer-term membership category or the possibility of 
a  member  being  re-elected  to  up  to  three  consecutive 
terms,  coupled  with  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
regular non-permanent seats. We believe that additional 
permanent seats would not be in keeping with the idea 
of an accountable and transparent Council. Moreover, 
the Uniting for Consensus position, through its proposal 
to allocate a non-permanent seat for small and medium-
sized States, most of which have never been elected to 
the Council, provides the most democratic option for a 
sustainable outcome. If the reformed Security Council 
is  to  be  the  Council  not  only  of  today  but  also  of  the 
future, it is imperative that we all concentrate our best 
efforts on proposals that will provide the Council with 
the necessary flexibility in terms of its composition.
Secondly, a comprehensive reform should cover all 
five  areas  set  forth  in  decision  62/557.  Any  proposal 
that  falls  short  of  encompassing  those  areas  would, 
without a doubt, be incomplete.
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  a  correction 
of the historic injustice done to Africa by substantially 
improving  the  representation  of  the  continent  on  the 
Council.
Turkey, as a member of the Uniting for Consensus 
Group,  is  ready  to  continue  to  engage  actively  and 
constructively  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We  kindly  request  that  all  Member  States  show  the 
required  flexibility  in  order  to  reach  an  outcome  that 
garners the broadest possible acceptance.
Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  my  delegation  endorses  the  statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46).
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation for the new momentum that the President, 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  is  giving  to  the  process  of 
intergovernmental negotiations in relation to the matter 
of the equitable representation in the Security Council. 
26/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
It  is  recognized  by  the  majority  that  the  current 
structure of the Security Council is, we could say, like 
a daguerreotype — and therefore a static expression of 
international relations as they were more than 60 years 
ago,  which  in  large  measure  is  not  very  relevant  to 
contemporary realities. For that reason, we believe that 
the final result of our deliberations and negotiations on 
the matter must avoid creating a new photograph that 
will become irrelevant in a few years.
the  current 
For  Ecuador,  the  democratic  deficit  of  the  organs 
that  make  up 
international  system, 
particularly  the  Security  Council,  must  be  corrected 
in  an  urgent  manner  if  the  Organization  is  to  be  able 
to  respond  to  the  purposes  and  principles  that  led  to 
its founding. My delegation is therefore ready to begin 
text-based  intergovernmental  negotiations,  so  that  we 
can start outlining clearly the United Nations that we 
want,  in  the  framework  of  a  complete  reform  of  the 
Organization.
The number of Members of the United Nations has 
significantly  increased  since  its  founding  and  since 
the  last  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council, in 1965. That reality should be reflected in the 
membership of the Council, which is why my country 
supports the creation of new seats in the permanent and 
non-permanent categories. However, regardless of the 
final form that the increase may take, it is indispensable 
that  the  mechanisms  by  which  the  members  of  the 
Council consult with and are accountable to the States 
of  the  region  that  they  represent  be  institutionalized, 
inasmuch  as,  it  must  be  remembered,  the  Security 
Council  acts,  in  the  fulfilment  of  its  responsibilities, 
on behalf of all States Members of the United Nations.
Such  an  increase  in  the  number  of  members  of 
the Security Council cannot simply be a mathematical 
answer  to  the  increase  in  the  membership  of  the 
Organization  as  a  whole.  A  reform  in  that  direction 
would  be  useless  if  it  were  not  accompanied  by  an 
in-depth  revision  of  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council,  including,  among  other  items,  the 
question  of  the  veto,  transparency  in  its  deliberations 
and  rebalancing  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly, the organ whose composition reflects global 
sovereignty, and the Security Council.
If  the  reform  that  is  achieved  at  the  end  of  our 
negotiations is not comprehensive, it will be of little or 
of no use. In the meantime, we welcome the initiatives 
promoted  by  some  members  of  the  Security  Council 
that have looked for an improvement in its mechanisms 
relating  to  transparency  and  accountability.  However, 
we  must  reiterate  our  concern  over  the  increasingly 
apparent  tendency  of  the  Council  to  include  in  its 
agenda  items  that  go  beyond  the  mandate  granted  by 
the  Charter  and  that  properly  belong  to  the  General 
Assembly or to other organs of the United Nations.
Mr.  Ruíz  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Let  me 
begin by saying that Colombia fully associates itself with 
the statement made this morning by the representative 
of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group 
(see A/68/PV.46).
I would like to thank the President for convening 
this  new  debate  on 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council. Likewise, I thank the Permanent 
Representative of China for introducing the report of the 
Security Council for the period from 1 August 2012 to 
31 July 2013 (A/68/2). I also wish to express appreciation 
for  the  President’s  interest  in  moving  forward  on  the 
path  towards  Security  Council  reform,  a  process 
that  has  been  full  of  obstacles  due  to  its  complexity. 
It  is  precisely  because  of  its  obvious  complexity  that 
Colombia wishes to make an appeal to have a process 
that is carried out with transparency, integrity and open 
communication,  regardless  of  which  mechanisms  are 
chosen for working on various scenarios in pursuit of 
that goal.
Although Colombia recognizes that the President has 
the authority to explore various alternatives in driving 
the discussions and decisions to be taken to resolve the 
complex issues under his responsibility, it is clear that 
his  power  should  be  exercised  within  the  framework 
of  the  established  rules  and  mandates.  The  mandate 
established  for  the  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform is contained in decision 62/557. Therefore, my 
delegation believes that the advisory group recently set 
up by the President should limit itself to providing the 
advisory opinions that the President requires, without 
its  functioning  implying  under  any  circumstances 
that the group has the mandate to prepare documents, 
draft resolutions or proposals with the purpose of their 
discussion  within  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
group.
In that regard, I am grateful for Ambassador Ashe’s 
statement at yesterday’s meeting with all the members 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  Group,  especially  his 
reference  to  the  purely  consultative  nature  of  the 
advisory group and the fact that it does not represent 
any  of  the  parties  to  the  negotiations  and  that  it  has 
13-55318
27/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
no  negotiating  function,  no  mandate  to  draft,  shorten 
or  summarize  any  negotiating  document,  and  that 
its  activities  will  not  affect  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation group.
the 
We  are  firm  believers,  as  is  the  President,  in  the 
importance  of  galvanizing 
intergovernmental 
negotiation  process  so  we  can  all  rely  on  a  Security 
Council  that  is  adequate  to  the  current  international 
scene, with its multiplicity of actors, challenges, threats 
and realities, which are different from what they were 
when the Council was first established. We believe that 
the main objective of the intergovernmental negotiation 
process is to promote dialogue and to help to close the 
gap so we can all reach the desired consensus.
International  dynamics  require  that  we  build  a 
more  inclusive  and  accountable  international  society. 
Our vision for the Security Council reform reflects that 
requirement.  We  wish  to  see  a  Security  Council  that 
represents  regional  dynamics,  whose  composition  is 
flexible  in  the  face  of  global  change  and  the  realities 
of  power  at  different  times  in  history.  We  wish  to 
see  a  Council  that  does  not  increase  or  perpetuate 
privilege and that addresses the underrepresentation of 
Africa, a continent with a particular perspective on the 
challenges to international peace and security, as well 
as  the  underrepresentation  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate for today’s meeting.
I  shall  now  give  the  floor  speakers  in  exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  delegations  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Kim Un Chol (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea): I would like to exercise the right of reply to 
respond to the remarks made by the representative of 
South  Korea  about  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  which  are  totally  absurd,  groundless  and 
unreasonable,  as  well  as  provocative.  The  delegation 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  totally 
rejects  the  South  Korean  delegation’s  remarks  and 
strongly condemns its provocative accusations. I believe 
that the South Korean delegation does not represent its 
country’s own interests in the United Nations. On the 
contrary,  it  represents  the  interests  and  positions  of 
the United States, because South Korea has no right to 
speak for itself and on its own without the consent of 
the United States, which is South Korea’s master.
As  for  the  so-called  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Security  Council  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  they  are  products  of  double 
standards, high-handedness and anachronistic thinking 
on  the  part  of  the  United  States.  Their  adoption  has 
highlighted the double standards, high-handedness and 
arbitrariness  of  Security  Council  actions,  particularly 
on the Korean peninsula issue, and has only aggravated 
the tension on the Korean peninsula and made the issue 
more complex.
It was the nuclear threat made by the United States 
that  compelled  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea to go nuclear. It is the hostile policy of the United 
States  towards  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea that has been the cause of the Korean peninsula’s 
nuclear issue. It is the fact of the United States Army 
being stationed in South Korea under the cover of the 
so-called United Nations command that has disrupted 
peace and security on the Korean peninsula, and South 
Korea has contributed to the confrontation and tensions 
there by serving its master’s interests.
The representative of South Korea should learn what 
is preventing the Security Council from performing its 
duties and responsibilities for preserving international 
peace and security before blindly following the United 
States and recklessly slandering South Korea’s brothers.
Mr. Lim Sang Beom (Republic of Korea): I would 
like  to  reply  to  the  intervention  of  the  representative 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The 
representative  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  is  once  again  blaming  others  for  its  illicit 
activities and provocations. Needless to say, the tension 
in  the  region  is  caused  by  North  Korea’s  continued 
missile 
tests.  The  alliance 
between the Republic of Korea and the United States is 
defensive in nature and for the past several decades has 
made an effective contribution to deterring war on the 
Korean peninsula.
launches  and  nuclear 
In that regard, North Korea’s argument is nothing 
more than an  irresponsible  pretext. In  the  past, it has 
claimed  that  its  activities  were  for  peaceful  purposes 
and  that  it  had  no  intention  of  developing  nuclear 
weapons.  But  now  the  international  community  has 
witnessed  three  nuclear  tests  by  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  North  Korea  is  the 
only  country  that  has  conducted  nuclear  tests  in  the 
28/30 
13-55318
07/11/2013 
A/68/PV.47
twenty-first  century,  in  violation  of  international  law. 
Similarly,  North  Korea  argues  that  its  launches  using 
ballistic-missile  technology  are  for  peaceful  uses  in 
outer space. However, given North Korea’s track record 
of repeatedly breaking its promises and agreements, it 
is clear that that is not the case.
the 
I  would  like  to  point  out  that  North  Korea 
incorrectly invokes the right to use nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes. That right is reserved only for those 
countries  that  faithfully  implement  their  obligations 
under 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  safeguards  within  the  regime  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
North  Korea,  which  announced  its  withdrawal  from 
adherence  to  the  NPT  and  conducted  nuclear  tests  in 
violation of Security Council resolutions, is not entitled 
to such a right. In that regard, I would like to reiterate 
that under the relevant Security Council resolutions and 
the Joint Statement of 19 September 2005, North Korea 
has the obligation to return to the NPT and the IAEA 
safeguards  and  to  abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and 
existing nuclear programmes in a complete, verifiable 
and responsible manner.
Mr. Kim Jin Song (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Every  day  the  South 
Korean regime, as a puppet of its American master and 
together with external forces, takes another step along 
the road of national betrayal and pushes the situation on 
the Korean peninsula to extremes, introducing highly 
sophisticated means of war, including nuclear weapons.
For Koreans, the United States is the arch-criminal 
and principal actor that has prolonged our people’s pain 
and calamity, blocking the path to the reunification of 
our nation.
The United States is also responsible for threatening 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  with  all 
necessary  means,  including  nuclear  weapons,  and  the 
dominant  Power  that  governs  acts  in  South  Korea. 
Even  using  the  right  terms,  I  regret  to  say  that  South 
Korea is nothing but a servant and a blind follower of its 
American master, who is consumed by an absurd dream 
of reunification while, on the other hand, is trying to 
act  by  misinterpreting  statements  between  the  North 
and the South made sincerely through dialogue.
In  South  Korea,  no  political  figure  has  the 
courage  to  speak  on  any  topic  without  first  reading 
the  face  of  his  American  master.  So  long  as  South 
Korean  authorities  do  not  renounce  their  traitorous 
policy  of  depending  on  foreign  forces  in  confronting 
their  compatriots,  inter-Korean  relations  will  not 
achieve  reconciliation —  much  less  the  desire  for  the 
reunification of their mother country.
In  conclusion,  it  would  be  most  absurd  for  the 
South Koreans, without taking into account their spirit 
of national independence, to lean on foreign Powers to 
resolve the issue of inter-Korean relations.
With  regard  to  the  protest  that  the  South  Korean 
representative will surely make about my comments, I 
state beforehand that it will be rejected again, since this 
is my last statement.
remember 
Mr.  Lim  Sang  Beom  (Republic  of  Korea):  I 
am  sorry  to  take  the  floor  again.  I  think  that  many 
delegations  clearly 
that  bizarre  and 
disturbing propaganda video on the YouTube website in 
March depicting New York in flames. Furthermore, it 
was North Korea that cut off a key military hotline with 
the Republic of Korea and declared that it had entered 
a state of war. Through its State media in April, North 
Korea threatened all foreign companies and tourists in 
the Republic of Korea and called on them to evacuate, 
stating that it was on the verge of a nuclear war. From 
those facts alone, it is clear who is truly responsible for 
the situation on the Korean peninsula.
From  the  statement  by  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  we  can  say 
again that North Korea has repeatedly rejected Security 
Council  resolutions  and  that  it  is  not  bound  by  any 
obligations. I reiterate that Article 25 of the Charter of 
the United Nations clearly states that all Member States 
should accept and carry out the decisions of the Security 
Council. Let me also stress that all the relevant Security 
Council resolutions regarding the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  have  been  adopted  unanimously 
every time by the sitting Security Council. Blaming the 
Council denies not only its authenticity and credibility, 
but also the collective wisdom of its members both past 
and present.
Furthermore, let me add that not only the Security 
Council but more than 80 States Members of the United 
Nations  have  issued  national  statements  condemning 
North Korea’s third nuclear test and urging North Korea 
to abide by the relevant Security Council resolutions. I 
would like to ask the representative of North Korea to 
name at least one country that defends North Korea’s 
actions.
13-55318
29/30
A/68/PV.47 
07/11/2013
North  Korea  receives  millions  of  dollars 
in 
assistance annually from the United Nations as well as 
the international community. It is a great pity that North 
Korean  authorities  abandon  their  basic  duty  to  their 
people by squandering scarce resources on nuclear and 
missile development. North Korea should use its limited 
resources to improve the lives of its people, rather than 
waste them on the development of such illicit activities.
Lastly,  what  is  good  for  the  Korean  people?  The 
answer  is  very  simple  and  clear:  North  Korea  should 
give up its weapons of mass destruction and ballistic-
missile  programmes  and  return  to  the  international 
community as a responsible member. The Republic of 
Korea is always ready to help the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, if it takes the right path.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
30/30 
13-55318
