United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
26th plenary meeting
Thursday, 3 October 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.26
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development
Agenda item 21 (continued)
Globalization and interdependence
(e)  International migration and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/68/190)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/68/162)
Mr. Brown (Jamaica): I have the honour to address 
this High-level Dialogue on behalf of the Government 
of Jamaica. We wish to thank the Secretary-General for 
his comprehensive report on international migration and 
development  (A/68/190)  and  to  commend  the  relevant 
organizations,  such  as  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration  and  the  Global  Migration  Group,  for 
their  invaluable  contributions,  which  have  made  this 
important High-level Dialogue possible.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made earlier by the representative of Fiji on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25).
protecting their rights and addressing the diverse and 
complex  issues  associated  with  migration.  Since  that 
time,  Jamaica,  and  indeed  the  entire  international 
community, has had to address the impact of emerging 
issues such as the environment, human trafficking and 
the impact of climate change on migration.
We have made every effort to include those issues 
in our deliberations at the national level and to identify 
strategies that will make migration work for countries of 
origin, destination and transit — and, more important, 
the migrants themselves. They include actively pursuing 
actions  that  protect  the  human  rights  of  all  migrants, 
including  eliminating  migrant  exploitation,  of  which 
human trafficking is a case in point; integrate migration 
into the development agenda; strengthen the migration 
evidence base in order to ensure that the data informing 
policy  and  programme  development  are  relevant  and 
current;  and  enhance  migration  partnerships  and 
cooperation, 
including  strengthening  partnerships 
with  the  diaspora.  In  so  doing,  the  Government  of 
Jamaica is committed to providing an environment that 
respects the human rights and dignity of all migrants, 
in  accordance  with  its  Constitution  and  international 
obligations.  The  legislative  framework  for  that  exists 
and is designed to foster coherence, coordination and 
harmonization,  thereby  providing  protection  for  all 
residents, including migrants.
Since the first United Nations High-level Dialogue 
on this subject, held in 2006, Jamaica has demonstrated 
its commitment to optimizing the benefits of migration, 
while minimizing its challenges, through national and 
international activities aimed at empowering migrants, 
The  Government  of  Jamaica  has  also  developed 
strategies  aimed  at  improving  its  capacity  to  monitor 
and  manage  international  migration,  in  line  with  the 
country’s  socioeconomic  development  priorities,  as 
outlined in its national development plan, Vision 2030. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-49793 (E)
*1349793*
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
The  assistance  of  the  international  donor  community 
has  been  invaluable  in  developing  the  policy,  and  we 
wish to thank them for being partners in the process. In 
that regard, the Government has developed a national 
policy  and  plan  of  action  on  international  migration 
and development that addresses the broad and evolving 
range of challenges and opportunities associated with 
migration.  The  policy  is  meant  to  manage  migration 
in ways that more effectively integrate it into national 
development  planning.  That  will  be  achieved  by 
harnessing migration’s development potential to benefit 
society and migrants through sustainable development 
and  poverty-reduction  strategies.  The  national  policy 
and  plan  of  action  also  recognizes  that  migration 
stimulates the creation of new economic opportunities 
in destination countries and that migrants become true 
agents of development through the transfer of human, 
social and financial capital. We encourage our partners 
that have not yet done so to develop national plans and 
forge  partnerships  at  the  national  and  global  levels, 
which  can  in  turn  improve  cooperation  between  and 
among States.
Jamaica recognizes the contribution of migration to 
all three pillars of sustainable development — economic, 
social  and  environmental  —  and  acknowledges  that 
migrants are potential agents of development who are 
well  positioned  to  strengthen  cooperation  between 
countries of origin and destination. In that regard, we 
developed  an  extended  migration  profile,  launched 
on  4  September  2012,  as  part  of  the  larger  process 
of  developing  our  national  policy.  The  profile,  the 
first of its kind in the Caribbean, is a critical tool for 
improving  knowledge  on  migration  and  development 
issues; enhancing the Government’s ability to manage 
migration;  and  addressing  the  gaps  identified  in  the 
collection  and  analysis  of  migration-related  data.  We 
have  highlighted  improved  data  management  as  a 
national priority in order to support the formulation of 
evidence-based policy planning.
We believe that global migration and development 
perspectives  should  be  people-friendly,  enabling 
countries  of  origin  and  destination,  and  migrants 
themselves,  to  share  equitably  in  the  benefits  of 
migration.  The  Government  of  Jamaica  therefore 
supports efforts to reduce the costs of labour migration. 
In that regard, every effort should be made to reduce the 
transfer costs of remittances, which often constitute a 
supplementary source of household income that affords 
basic  necessities  to  families  left  behind.  Jamaica  also 
recognizes  that  remittances  are  private  funds,  but 
supports  policies  geared  towards  leveraging  their 
development impact.
Jamaica 
strongly 
recommends 
sharing  best 
practices relating to diasporas, in particular the creation 
of incentives for diaspora communities to invest their 
financial  resources  and  expertise,  particularly  where 
gaps  in  areas  such  as  investment  in  health  care  and 
education  have  been  identified.  In  that  regard,  we 
recognize  that  the  country’s  growth  and  prosperity 
agenda  is  incomplete  without  the  commitment  and 
active participation of the diaspora.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that  Jamaica 
reiterates its support for this High-level Dialogue and 
hopes  that  the  outcome  of  the  meeting  will  ensure 
that  international  migration  is  adequately  measured 
and  monitored  in  order  for  the  development  needs  of 
countries such as Jamaica to be served and to address 
challenges  such  as  determining  how  to  recast  and 
reassess  the  conversation  around  the  “brain  drain” 
issue, so as to examine the issue of brain gain and brain 
circulation more closely, and how to manage remittances 
for national development, poverty reduction and social 
well-being.
Mr. Rybakov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Today’s 
event  gives  us  all  a  good  opportunity  to  discuss 
migration  issues  in  the  broader  context  of  moving 
towards the global post-2015 development agenda.
International migration today is a significant factor 
in  the  development  of  countries  and  entire  regions. 
Belarus  is  not  an  exception  in  that  regard.  For  my 
country, migration policy is an important component of 
our national development planning processes. Enacted 
legislation, policies that promote national and cultural 
diversity  and  the  absence  of  conflicts  on  national, 
ethnic  or  religious  grounds  contribute  to  the  flow  of 
migrants into our country.
Migrants  arriving  in  Belarus  enjoy  the  same 
rights  as  Belarusian  citizens.  Migration  legislation  in 
Belarus  takes  into  account  international  experience 
and  commonly  accepted  legal  norms  and  principles, 
including key elements of the International Convention 
on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers 
and Members of Their Families. In 2011, Belarus enacted 
a new version of its law on external labour migration, 
pursuant  to  which  all  migrant  workers,  regardless  of 
their  gender,  race,  nationality,  language,  religion  or 
political beliefs — provided that they do not interfere 
2/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
with  the  performance  of  their  work  duties  —  enjoy 
equal rights for entry into Belarus.
Belarus  adopted  and  is  implementing  a  national 
programme  on  demographic  security  for  the  period 
2011-2015. It contains a set of measures that are aimed 
at addressing migration issues for the good of national 
development. In order to attract migrant workers into the 
country and mindful of our investment and educational 
potential,  since  2012  we  have  reduced  the  period  of 
review for the issuance of permanent residence permits 
in the case of aliens for whom an employer has filed an 
application.
I  would  like  to  point  out  that  Belarus,  like  many 
other  countries,  faces  a  problem  with  the  emigration 
of  its  highly  qualified  specialists  —  the  so-called 
“brain drain” problem. We believe that the solution to 
the problem lies not only in national measures taken to 
improve social and economic conditions for the relevant 
categories of population; it is equally important for us 
to establish partnerships with countries of destination, 
including 
for 
Belarusian experts in foreign countries as well as the 
development of cooperation in the field of professional 
training of staff in Belarus.
recruitment  practices 
streamlined 
Currently, Belarus has elaborated a draft legislative 
act  that  provides  for  the  issuance  of  a  permanent 
residence  permit  to  stateless  persons  who  have  no 
permanent  country  of  residence  and  who  reside  in 
Belarus over a long period. The draft also contains two 
important provisions — aliens who become employed 
in  a  profession  that  they  prepared  for  by  studying  at 
a Belarusian educational establishment will be exempt 
from  needing  to  receive  a  special  work  permit,  and 
professionals  with  exceptional  capabilities  and  skills 
will  enjoy  favourable  conditions  for  moving  to  and 
settling in Belarus.
Belarus  is  interested  in  fostering  international 
cooperation  on  migration  issues  at  the  bilateral, 
regional and global levels. We have established dynamic 
cooperation  with  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  (IOM).  With  the  support  of  the  IOM,  an 
international  training  centre  that  provides  training, 
advanced  training  and  retraining  of  personnel  in 
the  field  of  migration  and  the  fight  against  human 
trafficking  was  opened  in  2007  in  the  city  of  Minsk. 
The  centre  runs  training  activities  for  representatives 
of  national  and  foreign  law-enforcement  agencies.  In 
May  2013,  with  the  financial  support  of  the  Russian 
Federation, the centre hosted a seminar for the Group 
of  Friends  United  against  Human  Trafficking,  during 
which  representatives  of  various  regions  shared  their 
legislative and law-enforcement experience with regard 
to  preventing  illegal  migration  and  combating  human 
trafficking.
This  year,  Belarus  holds  the  presidency  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States.  Accordingly, 
I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the 
regional  position  of  its  member  States  on  migration 
issues,  which  was  previously  circulated  as  an  official 
document  at  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  That  position,  which  was  prepared  in 
the  context  of  today’s  Dialogue,  reaffirms  the  role 
and  influence  of  the  United  Nations  in  shaping  the 
principles  of  the  Commonwealth  States’  migration 
policies  and  underscores  the  intention  of  our  States 
to  pursue  comprehensive  interaction  in  areas  related 
to  the  impact  of  migration  processes  on  sustainable 
development.
Belarus  welcomes  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations  system  in  relation  to  migration  issues.  We 
are  gratified  that  the  subjects  of  migration  and  the 
protection of the rights of migrants have been reflected 
in the new strategic plans of the main United Nations 
agencies: the United Nations Development Programme, 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  UNICEF  and 
UN Women. However, in our view, the United Nations 
and other international organizations and groups should 
play  a  more  active  role  in  creating  and  strengthening 
networks  on  migration  and  development,  identifying 
best practices and building a knowledge and information 
platform for policy-making in the field of migration and 
development.
I  am  confident  that  today’s  Dialogue,  which  is 
being  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations, 
will facilitate addressing those and many other issues 
related  to  international  migration  and  development. 
Belarus  stands  ready  to  do  everything  it  can  to 
contribute to such work.
Mr. Montero (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): Let 
me begin by saying that the Government of Costa Rica 
wishes to express its condolences to the families of the 
victims of the regrettable events occurring off the coast 
of Italy.
Costa Rica would like to emphasize the tremendous 
optimism  that  this  Dialogue  has  triggered  in  my 
country. The position of Costa Rica with respect to this 
Dialogue  is  the  outcome  of  a  broad-based  and  cross-
13-49793
3/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
cutting process of reflection, emphasizing the inclusive 
and open approach that should be adopted when talking 
about  migration.  Governments  should  not  decide  or 
take action on migration without hearing the voices of 
migrants,  their  family  members,  their  employers  and 
those who study migration issues.
Costa Rica is the prime destination for migrants in 
Central America. Immigration has been a major factor 
in  achieving  progress  in  key  sectors  such  as  trade, 
agriculture  and  infrastructure.  Moreover,  our  culture 
has been enriched by the input of migrants. Therefore, 
we  would  like  to  invite  participants  in  this  Dialogue 
to recognize fully the contribution of migration in the 
construction of our respective nations.
to 
the 
Moreover, my country is notable for its determined 
commitment 
recognition,  promotion  and 
observance of human rights. For many years, we have 
been guaranteeing migrants’ access to services for basic 
education, health, prenatal care, school meals and care, 
regardless of their immigration status. The outcome of 
those  policies  allows  us  today  to  corroborate  the  fact 
that migrants’ access to such services generates greater 
benefits  for  all.  Costa  Rica  therefore  reiterates  its 
invitation so that during this event we take decisive steps 
forward in favour of the human rights of all migrants, 
by recognizing conclusively their right to have access to 
public services. In that regard, we call the Assembly’s 
attention to the realities that exist in countries such as 
Costa Rica in meeting those commitments.
international  community 
We are a middle-income country with a significant 
inflow of immigrants. Our desire to provide more and 
better services to them is limited by our scant financial 
resources.  The 
should 
therefore allocate resources to guarantee the economic 
sustainability of such services. For Costa Rica that is 
an  imperative  in  achieving  sustainable  development. 
If  we  want  to  see  the  dual  strands  of  migration  and 
development  occurring  simultaneously, 
is 
crucial that additional resources be devoted to that end. 
We cannot do it alone.
then 
it 
In  seeking  increased  funding  for  migration  and 
development, Costa Rica would like to propose to the 
international  community  that  we  promote  innovative 
mechanisms  that  make  it  possible  to  benefit  migrants 
and  destination  countries  alike,  either  by  establishing 
joint funds or by facilitating access to loans intended 
to meet the needs of vulnerable migrants or other forms 
of cooperation funding. Those proposals are set out in 
the  document  entitled  “Costa  Rica’s  initiative  for  the 
High-level  Dialogue,”  which  will  be  distributed  to 
participants in due course.
In  addition  to  allocating  more  resources,  at  the 
State level we must devise public policies intended to 
eliminate  prejudices  and  stereotypes  associated  with 
migration. We must also commit to actively promoting 
genuine equality for all individuals, including migrants. 
To that end, we must look at the real situation and needs 
of the most vulnerable migrants, such as girls and boys; 
indigenous persons; the elderly; the disabled; lesbian, 
gay,  bisexual,  transsexual,  transgender  and  intersex 
persons;  and  temporary  and  domestic  workers.  We 
must develop robust measures to prevent, combat and 
punish violations of their rights, such as discrimination 
and xenophobia. We must also work together to prevent 
migrants  from  becoming  victims  of  such  crimes  as 
trafficking in persons and illicit smuggling. Costa Rica 
urges participants to ensure that all authorities dealing 
with  the  challenges  of  immigration  at  the  global  and 
regional  levels  work  in  close  coordination  with  all 
stakeholders in this area.
We  do  not  think  that  we  need  to  establish  new 
entitie;  we  must  strengthen  those  that  already  exist. 
To  that  end,  we  must  acknowledge  the  work  that  has 
been undertaken by the International Organization for 
Migration  for  more  than  60  years  and  strengthen  its 
interaction with United Nations agencies. We consider 
it  important  that  efforts  made  within  the  Global 
Forum  contribute  to  regional  consultation  processes. 
The  work  of  the  Global  Migration  Group  should  also 
be  better  coordinated  with  that  of  the  United  Nations 
country  team.  It  is  essential  to  ensure  in  all  forums 
where  migration  is  discussed  that  we  take  account  of 
the voices of civil society and, of course, of migrants 
themselves.
There are many challenges before us to ensure that 
migration  contributes  to  development.  However,  we 
have made   significant progress since the first High-level 
Dialogue. Costa Rica trusts that, on this occasion, we 
will make further progress, and we therefore reiterate 
our commitment to achieving concrete outcomes from 
this high-level event.
Mr. Holmås (Norway): Let me start by expressing 
my heartfelt condolences to the many people affected 
by  the  tragedy  in  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  where  at 
least  130  African  migrants  have  died  and  many  more 
are missing after a boat carrying them to Europe sank 
in  the  early  hours  of  this  morning.  More  than  2,000 
people  have  been  reported  dead  after  having  tried  to 
4/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
cross  those  waters  in  recent  years.  The  rising  global 
phenomenon  of  migrants  and  people  fleeing  conflict 
or  persecution  and  perishing  at  sea  underscores  the 
importance of the topic at this High-level Dialogue on 
International Migration and Development.
But  let  me  start  at  another  place.  During  the 
mass  migration  from  Europe  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century,  more  than  a  quarter  of  Norway’s  population 
left  poverty  and  hardship  behind.  Their  aim  was  to 
get  a  better  life  abroad.  Most  Norwegian  migrants 
went to this country — to the United States — where 
they participated in building a modern and prosperous 
nation. Today their descendants continue to work hard 
and  contribute  to  American  society.  They  are  proud 
both of their homeland and their Norwegian roots.
disabled  people,  who  we  also  know  are  vulnerable  in 
such  situations.  We  work  together  with  international 
organizations, and we must ensure our regulations do 
not undermine the human rights of irregular migrants.
Secondly,  we  need  mechanisms  for  protecting 
migrants during times of environmental disasters and 
crises. Climate change will lead to more migration in 
future,  both  within  and  between  nations.  Therefore, 
Norway  and  Switzerland  have  initiated  the  Nansen 
Initiative, which gathers information on the protection 
needs  of  people  displaced  by  natural  disasters  and 
climate  change.  The  Nansen  Initiative  holds  regional 
consultations in the most affected regions of the world. 
To  date,  we  have  learned  that  a  stronger  protection 
regime is needed for people falling into that category.
The  Monopoly  board  game  has  a  card  that  says 
“Received from your uncle in the United States, 1,500 
Norwegian  kroner”.  That  is  just  the  same  thing  that 
happened a couple of decades back, and is happening 
in the world today. But then the money went to Norway, 
now it goes to other States.
Thirdly,  we  need  measures  to  help  integrate 
migrants  into  their  new  host  communities,  with 
particular  attention  to  women  and  children.  If  we 
invest in migrants’ access to education and labour, we 
know that they will give back much more, both to their 
homelands and their host nations.
Since  that  mass  exodus,  Norway  has  developed 
into  an  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development country, with one of the highest per capita 
immigration  rates.  More  than  two  thirds  of  Norway’s 
population  growth  is  due  to  immigration.  Today, 
Norway  depends  on  immigrants  for  developing  many 
areas of our industry and for the provision of services. 
In a world when more people are on the move than ever 
before, I believe that it is our common responsibility to 
maximize the positive impact of international migration 
on development.
My country’s history of migration has shown that 
human mobility can be a key driver of human progress 
and  development.  Migration  brings  opportunities, 
but  it  also  entails  challenges  and  risks.  Appropriate 
and  coherent  policies  need  to  be  implemented  so  that 
international migration can be a better tool for poverty 
reduction. Such policies should include the following.
First,  there  should  be  measures  to  ensure  safe, 
humane  and  orderly  migration  in  accordance  with 
human rights. We need a human rights-based approach. 
For example, we should scale up international, regional 
and national efforts to combat the exploitation of people 
when they are being trafficked. We know that women 
are  forced  into  prostitution,  that  children  are  forced 
into  slave  labour  and  that  women  and  children  are 
particularly vulnerable. Only last week we spoke about 
We  also  know 
that  no  person  should  be 
discriminated  against  or  excluded  for  having  an 
immigrant  background.  In  Norway,  particular  policy 
attention  is  paid  to  how  unaccompanied  minors  and 
women  migrants  are  received  and  integrated  into 
society, and to the barriers women migrants encounter 
when trying to enter the labour market.
In order for migration to be a positive component 
in our international development efforts, we will seek 
and  strengthen  our  work  to  include  migrant  groups 
and  make  better  use  of  their  contextual  knowledge 
and  skills.  We  believe  that  that  approach  will  further 
improve the quality of our development assistance and 
contribute  to  a  more  sustainable  development  of  the 
affected  country.  In  the  case  of  Somalia,  we  see  that 
many migrants from diaspora countries such as Norway 
and the United States are moving back to take part in 
the reconstruction of their war-afflicted countries. One 
example  from  Norway  is  the  Speaker  of  the  Somali 
Parliament, my countryman Mohamed Osman Jawari, 
who  returned  to  Mogadishu  after  many  years  in  the 
Norwegian  workforce,  where,  among  other  things,  he 
worked on conflict resolution — a skill I think he will 
need back in Somalia.
I  believe  that  people  who  belong  to  two  cultures 
can  be  indispensable  resources  in  either  country,  and 
that  we  should  adopt  policies  to  make  it  possible  and 
13-49793
5/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
easier for people to contribute in both countries, both 
alone and with their families.
In conclusion, we shall do more to systematically 
include diasporas in development efforts. It is important 
that the potential positive role of international migration 
in reducing poverty and fostering human development 
be  reflected  in  a  new  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Targets and indicators for which countries can be held 
accountable  should  be  included  in  that  development 
agenda: it should be a total package.
Mr. Isakov (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): Allow 
me  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  convening  of 
this  High-level  Dialogue  to  address  migration  issues 
through the prism of development.
Recent  data  show  that  there  are  approximately 
232 million international migrants, a large proportion 
of whom are migrant workers. Almost one fifth of the 
population of the Kyrgyz Republic is engaged in labour 
abroad, both near and far. Seeking an effective system 
for  the  protection  of  their  socioeconomic  rights  is  a 
priority area of our activities.
One of the most urgent problems in that area is the 
continued use of forced labour in destination countries. 
In  that  context,  we  note  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
coordination  of  efforts  to  combat  that  phenomenon. 
We support the programme proposed by the Secretary-
General  in  his  report  of  25  July  (A/68/190),  which 
points  to  the  need  to  combat  human  trafficking  and 
forced  exploitation.  We  therefore  believe  that  greater 
efforts must be focused on harmful foreign employment 
programmes  with  a  view  to  the  organization  of  legal 
labour  migration  between  sending  and  receiving 
countries.  Targeted  programmes  are  also  needed  to 
increase  training  for  migrants  and  improving  related 
services.
With  regard  to  the  influence  of  migration  on 
development,  we  note  the  positive  effect  of  migrant 
remittances  on  the  socioeconomic  development  of 
countries,  which  are  also  a  source  of  support  for  the 
welfare  of  many  families.  That  must  be  taken  into 
account in the formulation of immigration policies and 
critical efforts to that end. The Kyrgyz Republic pays 
a  great  deal  of  attention  to  improving  its  policies  in 
that regard, including through the adoption of strategic 
documents.  In  early  2013,  our  President  approved 
a  national  strategy  on  our  country’s  sustainable 
development  for  the  period  2013  to  2017.  That  policy 
establishes that State policy on the labour market and 
migration  should  be  streamlined  and  move  towards 
civilized development and support for migrant workers. 
A new long-term national policy to regulate migration 
processes led to the drafting last year of a strategy to 
regulate  external  labour  migration  through  the  year 
2020 and a plan of action for its implementation for the 
period 2013-2017. Last June, our President established 
an  inter-agency  group  that  is  currently  working  to 
implement that plan.
Today, 
the 
entire 
international 
community 
agrees  that  migration  plays  a  very  important  role  in 
achieving  many  of  the  development  goals  enshrined 
in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We  are  certain  that 
we need to work together to ensure that the issues we 
are  discussing  today  are  reflected  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation 
to the International Organization for Migration and the 
International  Labour  Organization  for  their  support 
to  Kyrgyzstan,  as  well  as  to  express  our  full  support 
for  the  work  of  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development and the Global Migration Group.
Ms.  Simonné  (Hungary):  Hungary  is  honoured 
to  be  present  at  this  important  event.  Migration  is  a 
phenomenon  that  connects  us  all  and  compels  us  to 
work towards a better future.
Migration has many faces, effects and consequences, 
which  requires  a  multifaceted  approach.  We  believe 
that  both  the  positive  and  negative  sides  of  migration 
can be addressed more effectively through continuous 
cooperation,  dialogue  and  knowledge  transfer  among 
all  actors  involved.  Hungary  is  firmly  committed  to 
mutual  cooperation  and  partnership  with  States  and 
other  actors  in  the  framework  of  various  regional 
consultative processes.
Our  capital,  Budapest,  is  proud  to  share  its  name 
with the longest-standing regional cooperation process 
in  the  region,  the  Budapest  Process.  This  year,  that 
platform  celebrated  its  twentieth  anniversary  and,  at 
the  same  time,  has  renewed  itself  and  established  the 
Silk Routes Partnership for Migration, which will focus 
on many aspects of migration, from legal to irregular 
migration, returns and the fight against trafficking, to 
international protection issues. Turkey, the Chair, and 
Hungary,  the  co-Chair,  along  with  the  Partnership’s 
53 States and more than 10 international organizations, 
will  work  towards  one  main  goal,  namely,  promoting 
dialogue  and  mutual  cooperation  in  managing  the 
6/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
migration  flows  taking  place  along  the  ancient  Silk 
Routes.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Silk  Routes  platform 
and other similar regional processes have the capacity 
to  successfully  manage  migration  in  their  respective 
regions.  We  strongly  support  the  work  of  all  regional 
migration  processes  worldwide,  as  they  are  the  most 
adequate  and  effective  frameworks  to  understand, 
analyse and find the best solutions to manage a given 
region’s migration issues, with a view to enhancing the 
benefits  of  international  migration  for  migrants  and 
countries alike.
As I mentioned, migration has many faces. One of 
the sad faces of migration becomes visible when human 
traffickers take their victims along the migration routes. 
Hungary,  together  with  all  European  Union  member 
States,  believes  that  all  States  should  pay  particular 
attention  to  victims  of  trafficking.  Legal  background 
information  and  awareness-raising  campaigns  are  of 
key importance to prevention.
To tackle all the other faces of migration as a main 
aim in migration management, Hungary is working to 
better  organize  and  improve  the  conditions  for  legal 
migration  and  mobility,  together  with  preventing  and 
counteracting  irregular  migration  and  facilitating  the 
return  and  readmission  of  irregular  migrants.  Both 
sides  need  to  be  balanced:  while  Hungary  welcomes 
legal  migrants,  measures  against  irregular  migration 
are used, and those violating the rules have to return to 
their countries of origin.
But  what  about  vulnerable  people  who  have  no 
citizenship? My country is proud to be party to all United 
Nations  conventions  and  regional  conventions  related 
to  the  phenomenon  of  statelessness  and  to  provide 
protection  to  those  in  need.  Hungary  has  established 
and successfully operates a self-standing statelessness 
determination procedure. Moreover, we also act in line 
with a specific quality-assurance handbook developed 
together  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner 
for  Refugees.  Hungary  urges  all 
States  present  here  to  adhere  to  the  United  Nations 
statelessness conventions, as they are important pieces 
of  the  puzzle  of  the  general,  successful  —  but,  more 
important,  humane  and  rights-driven  —  management 
of migration.
Mr.  Jeong  Dong  Min  (Republic  of  Korea):  On 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  I 
would like to express my gratitude to the United Nations 
for  having  organized  this  meaningful  Dialogue.  It  is 
my  great  pleasure  to  attend  this  Dialogue  and  share 
my views on the issues of migration and development. 
Allow me to start by talking about the current status of 
foreigners in Korea.
The Korean Government was established in 1948. 
By 2007 the foreign population had risen to 1 million; 
this year it reached 1.6 million. In the 1960s and 1970s, 
Korea was a typical sending country. Recently, however, 
Korea has itself become a receiving country — a rare 
situation.
Since  2000,  there  has  been  an  increasing  influx 
of  foreigners.  The  Korean  Government  realized  that 
we  needed  effective  policy  measures  on  immigration. 
In 2007, therefore, the Government enacted an act on 
the  treatment  of  foreigners  in  Korea  that  allows  the 
relevant  Government  agencies  to  introduce  five-year 
basic  plans  on  immigration  policy.  The  second  basic 
plan on immigration policy, which was introduced this 
year, is based on five policy goals, namely, openness, 
social  integration,  human  rights,  public  safety  and 
cooperation.
The  basic  plan  on  immigration  policy  is  also 
related  to  the  subject  of  migration  and  development. 
As demonstrated in the International Organization for 
Migration World Migration Report 2013, the causes of 
migration are strongly related to levels of development. 
With  that  awareness,  Korea  continues  to  strive  for 
policy  coherence  with  regard  to  development  for 
migration  and  development.  In  addition,  as  part  of 
pursuing its basic plan, Korea is finding ways to link 
official development assistance with projects to nurture 
human resources in developing countries.
Having  adopted  a  new  policy  plan 
linking 
international  migration  and  development,  Korea  will 
make every effort to achieve mutual prosperity through 
international  cooperation.  The  Republic  of  Korea, 
together  with  other  Member  States,  stands  ready 
to  make  its  contribution  to  the  lofty  goal  of  mutual 
prosperity.
Mr. Pires (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): At the outset, 
I would like to express my condolences to the families 
of the victims of the tragedy off the coast of Lampedusa.
Brazil appreciates this opportunity to address the 
General  Assembly  during  this  High-level  Dialogue 
aimed  at  identifying  practical  measures  to  improve 
cooperation on international migration.
13-49793
7/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
A tract of the history of Brazilian development can 
followed by tracing its constituent migration flows. Our 
social plurality and our political and cultural diversity 
are both results and engines of that development, which 
are tributaries of distinct flows of human migration.
In  the  course  of  twentieth  century,  the  rate  and 
type  of  migration  reflected  the  pulse  of  Brazilian 
social  and  political  life.  Although  both  migrants 
and  Brazilians  abandoned  the  country  during  —  and 
because  of  —  authoritarian  regimes,  the  flourishing 
of  democracy  and  socioeconomic  development  have 
served to reignite migratory trends, including of those 
who set out to seek refuge and humanitarian protection.
Today we are experiencing a period of reflection in 
terms of the Brazilian State’s response to migration. In 
order to generate favourable conditions for development, 
migration  policy  must  incorporate  the  concept  of 
development  anchored 
three  specific  current 
challenges.  The  first  challenge  is  the  need  to  update 
national  immigration  laws,  incorporate  international 
treaties  and  agreements  domestically  and  harmonize 
administrative provisions in order to establish a political 
and legal culture that is non-discriminatory, effectively 
protects human rights and prevents violations.
in 
The second challenge is linked to the establishment 
of means of coordination among migration institutions 
and between levels of Government — from federal to 
state to local — in a country of continental proportions. 
It  also  includes  setting  institutional  competencies 
to  integrate  migrants  in  all  spheres  —  economic, 
social, cultural and productive. This challenge should 
be  seen  as  part  of  a  commitment  to  addressing  the 
issue  of  undocumented  migrants  in  an  inclusive  and 
non-criminalizing  approach  and  establishing  specific 
child-protective  and  gender-protective  measures,  with 
due respect for sexual orientation and gender identity 
issues.
The third challenge entails making a commitment to 
listen when it comes to the participation and supervision 
of the key social processes involved in developing and 
implementing  policies  and  programmes  aimed  at  the 
migrant  groups  and  populations  living  in  Brazil  —  a 
natural  extension  of  Brazil’s  perspective  concerning 
the  development  of  public    policy  on  the  basis  of 
transparency,  openness  and  social  collaboration.  That 
also means turning on its head the paradigm whereby 
migration  management  is  a  way  to  effect  population 
control, and instead empowering migrants through their 
own voices, autonomy and participation as a citizens.
Those three points correspond to our expectations 
of the international debate on migration, both globally 
and regionally. We must therefore broaden and improve 
the  network  of  treaties,  norms  and  international 
standards  with  regard  to  the  treatment  of  human 
migrantion,  including  undocumented  migrants.  There 
is also a need to expand the debate among institutions 
and to strengthen the strategic role of all international 
organizations dealing with this issue. Finally,  it is urgent 
that we provide and improve upon regional initiatives 
that are designed to allow for the direct participation of 
organizations that represent migrant groups.
In  our  view,  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and 
the  fulfilment  of  conditions  for  their  full  social 
integration  are  crucial  to  the  promotion  of  national 
policies  and  regional  cooperation  strategies,  as  well 
as  to  involvement  in  new  international  mechanisms. 
The  human  rights  of  migrants  are  a  precondition  for 
making  global  development  possible.  In  that  regard, 
the  Brazilian  delegation  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
strive  to  incorporate  the  International  Convention  on 
the  Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers 
and Members of Their Families, which is still pending. 
We support  the United Nations Global Plan of Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We  support  the 
initiative  of  the  Office  of    the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  aimed  at  convening 
the  “Cartagena+30”  conference.  We  also  prioritize 
initiatives  based  on  coordination  among  countries 
aimed at improving the protection and promotion of the 
rights of migrants against all forms of discrimination, 
racism and xenophobia.
With  regard  to  promoting  regional  integration, 
my  country  sponsored  the  recent  successful  efforts 
to  expand  residency  and  mobility  rights  for  migrants 
from  the  countries  of  the  Southern  Common  Market 
(MERCOSUR) and associated States. That was realized 
through the entry into force, in 2009, of the residency 
agreement  concerning  nationals  from  MERCOSUR 
States  parties,  including  its  ongoing  improvement 
with a view towards increasingly flexible and assisted 
migration flows.
This year, Brazil has also participated in projects 
to  improve  protective  measures  in  cases  of  forced 
displacement,  by  expanding 
refugee  protection, 
resettlement  mechanisms.  With  
integration  and 
active  participation,  MERCOSUR  has 
Brazil’s 
established 
forum  of  national 
committees  on  refugees,  in  an  effort  to  set  standards 
the  group’s 
first 
8/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
and  share  best  practices  in  the  region.  Moreover,  we 
developed our second national plan against trafficking 
in  persons.  During  the  same  period,  important  steps 
were  taken  so  that  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration could officially establish an office in Brazil 
as  an  important  interlocutor  on  current  and  future 
efforts. 
We  are  aware  of  our  share  of  responsibility  and 
solidarity  in  relation  to  new  migration  flows,  in 
particular  with  regard  to  South-South  migration  and 
migration caused by environmental changes.
Lastly,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the  launch 
of  a  national  process  of  social  listening  and  public 
consultation. The first national conference on migration 
and refugees, to be held in 2014, will be an opportunity 
to promote social dialogue and invite migrants residing 
in  Brazil  to  participate  in  and  contribute  to  the 
elaboration  of  a  public  policy  approach  to  migration, 
one that has a solid human rights-based framework.
Those are the guidelines by which Brazil is willing 
to work diligently and steadily, together with all Member 
States and all related international organizations, in a 
coordinated way, to make the best use of the potential 
benefits  and  reciprocal  links  between  migration  and 
development,  with  due  attention  to  social  justice  and 
participation.  Together,  we  will  thereby  increasingly 
forge a concept of global citizenship.
Mr. Arriola (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): I should 
first like to express the solidarity and condolences of 
the Republic of Paraguay in connection with the tragedy 
that occurred off the Italian island of Lampedusa.
It  is  an  honour  to  represent  Paraguay  at  his 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development,  which  seeks  to  consider  the  issue  of 
international  migration  with  a  view  to  establishing 
human dignity-based channels of cooperation.
The  human  rights  of  migrants  merit  the  fullest 
respect,  regardless  of  immigration  status.  Migrants 
and  their  families  should  be  protected  from  acts  of 
xenophobia and discrimination. Accordingly, receiving 
countries should promote policies that aim at achieving 
integration, coexistence, tolerance and social inclusion 
for immigrant groups, with a view to maximizing the 
positive impact in host societies.
Paraguay  views  migrants  as  genuine  agents  of 
development.  Our  own  history  has  shown  that  the 
men  and  women  born  in  other  countries  who  chose 
our  country  as  their  homeland  brought  with  them 
technical and specialist knowledge that had a positive 
impact  not  only  in  achieving  economic  progress  but 
also  progress  on  other  equally  important  fronts,  such 
as the social, cultural and scientific dimensions. That is 
why we support migrants’ access to the labour markets 
of  host  countries.  We  also  urge  the  strengthening  of 
the  international  legal  framework  and  its  established 
mechanisms  to  guarantee  the  effective  protection  of 
the  rights  of  those  workers  and  their  families.  And 
we promote the adoption of policies to ensure respect 
for,  and  the  recognition  of,  the  need  to  establish  fair 
and decent working and social security conditions for 
migrants.
Almost  half  of  the  migrants  today  are  women. 
The emigration of mothers and wives has had a strong 
impact on families and societies in countries of origin. 
In  host  countries,  women  are  doubly  the  victims  of 
discrimination  —  as  women  and  as  migrant  workers. 
Therefore, States should protect their rights and those 
of  other  groups  in  vulnerable  situations,  such  as 
unaccompanied minors who, for various reasons, find 
themselves outside their own countries.
Paraguay 
renews 
to 
its 
commitment 
the 
implementation  of  international  obligations  adopted 
with a view to preventing, prosecuting and punishing 
trafficking  in  persons  and  the  unlawful  smuggling  of 
migrants. We are in the process of addressing, righting 
and restoring the rights of victims of such crimes. We 
therefore  believe  that  it  is  pertinent  to  include  as  a 
central theme of the multilateral dynamics on matters 
relating to migration the question of unlawful practices, 
with a view to encouraging the cooperation needed to 
fight  such  practices.  Similarly,  we  urge  compliance 
with the provisions of the Palermo Protocol.
Thus  far,  47  States,  including  Paraguay,  have 
ratified the International Convention on the Protection 
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of 
Their Families. We appeal for additional States to do the 
same, thereby joining the efforts to achieve the fullest 
protection of the rights of all human beings, regardless 
of whether they are in their own country or outside it.
In  Paraguay,  we  have  a  migration  policy  that  is 
based  on  respect  for  human  rights.  In  that  context, 
periodic rounds of migration-status regularization take 
place in compliance with commitments emanating from 
national, regional, bilateral and unilateral instruments, 
such  as  the  migration  amnesty  law  in  force  in  my 
country.
13-49793
9/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
In  addition,  Paraguay  offers  assistance  to  our 
own  nationals  who  wish  to  return  home,  providing 
the necessary conditions to ensure their reinsertion in 
terms  of  education,  jobs  and  social  matters.  We  also 
maintain  close  links  with  Paraguayan  communities 
abroad, including victims of the trafficking in persons, 
for  whom  we  have  various  programmes  and  social 
funds covered by our national budget.
The  nexus  between  migration  and  development 
goes  beyond  the  merely  economic  perspective.  We 
need to adopt a holistic approach for dealing with that 
link  that  incorporates  the  human,  social,  cultural  and 
environmental  dimensions,  with  priority  attention 
being given to the relationship between migration and 
development.  That  link,  contrary  to  popular  belief, 
is  not  confined  to  remittances  or  private  flows  of 
funds,  which,  it  should  be  emphasized,  should  not  be 
considered to be official development assistance.
Moreover,  my  country  is  of  the  view  that  the 
Global Forum on Migration and Development requires 
an  integral,  methodological  and  structural  review 
that  raises  the  profile  of  the  full  participation  and 
contribution  of  all  of  our  countries.  Also,  we  believe 
that  the  global  debate  on  human  mobility  calls  for  a 
holistic  approach  that  moves  towards  the  formulation 
of  binding  standards-setting 
instruments,  policies 
and  institutional  environments  that  reflect  a  genuine 
commitment  by  the  international  community  to  the 
effective implementation of the measures adopted. The 
discussion should be centred in the United Nations, since 
it  is  the  natural  forum,  and  therefore  the  appropriate 
context, for the participation on equal footing of all of 
States.
Finally,  Paraguay  offers  and  pledges  its  fullest 
support  to  carrying  forward  a  broad-based  political 
debate within the United Nations on all dimensions of 
international  migration,  leading  to  the  adoption  of  a 
binding multilateral instrument.
Mr.  Ramírez  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First 
of  all,  Ecuador  echoes  the  condolences  expressed  in 
connection  with  the  recent  tragedy  off  the  coast  of 
Lampedusa.
Ecuador  is  a  country  where  there  exist  the  four 
characteristics  of  international  migration.  We  are  a 
country  of  emigration  and  a  country  of  immigration, 
and  many  of  those  migrants  are  refugees.  We  are  a 
country  of  transit  and  of  return.  On  the  basis  of  our 
2008  Constitution,  Ecuador  defends  the  right  of 
whether to migrate or not, facilitates the free movement 
of human beings, does not consider any human being 
to be “illegal” and advocates the principle of universal 
citizenship. Ecuador firmly believes that the only way 
of resolving our problems and differences in the various 
types of migration policies is through frank, sincere and 
open  dialogue  that  allows  us  to  improve  the  situation 
and  quality  of  life  of  the  entire  migrant  population, 
especially those from the South to the North.
While  in  developed  countries  there  is  increased 
focus  on  security  issues  with  respect  to  migration, 
under  the  apparently  neutral  mantra  of  migration 
management that emphasizes the effects of migration, 
the  subject  is  de-politicized,  with  asymmetries  being 
ignored  and  international  obligations  left  out.  In 
contrast,  in  the  South,  our  migration  policy  approach 
is  based  on  respect  for,  and  the  centrality  of,  human 
rights and sociocultural, economic and political rights, 
on the basis of migratory governance spaces, with an 
emphasis  on  the  causes  of  migrations  that  are  closely 
linked to the unequal development between the South 
and the North.
I  would  stress  that  for  Ecuador  dialogue  is  the 
path to peace that can resolve all differences wherever 
there  is  political  will.  We  have  all  gathered  here  at 
the  General  Assembly  to  think  about  the  post-2015 
migration  and  development  agenda.  We  believe  that 
the equation is missing a third element — rights. There 
can be no development without rights. That is why, for 
Ecuador,  an  essential  step  in  our  future  agenda  and 
dialogue should be based on a commitment by the main 
host countries of our migrants to sign the International 
Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All 
Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of  Their  Families. 
Almost  25  years  have  elapsed  since  the  opening  for 
signature  of  the  Convention,  which  to  date  has  been 
signed  and/or  ratified  mainly  by  the  countries  of  the 
South of the planet.
In various summits, we have stressed the fact that 
it  is  essential  to  ensure  the  effective  enjoyment  and 
protection  of  the  rights  of  all  migrants.  But  Ecuador 
also considers it absolutely essential to exchange ideas 
and  opinions  —  for  that  is  how  we  can  understand 
the  technical  and  political  space  —  on  that  already 
classic  equation  of  migration  and  development  and 
ask ourselves who benefits from migration and why it 
occurs.
The  dominant  discourse  ignores  the  structural 
causes  of  migration.  Sometimes  we  do  not  want  to 
10/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
remember  that  most  migrants  —  asylum-seekers, 
refugees  and  displaced  persons  —  come 
from 
countries  devastated  by  violence,  national  disaster 
or  conflict,  whose  intrinsic  cause  can  be  located  in 
deepening underdevelopment and the perverse effects 
of  capitalism.  The  dominant  view  on  migration  and 
development emphasizes only one side of the problem. 
It is stated that migrants contribute by their remittances 
to  raising  the  standard  of  living  in  many  parts  of  the 
world, while in the countries of destination they exert 
pressure  on  the  labour  markets,  take  jobs  from  locals 
and become burdens on the State through their demand 
for social and other public services. Meanwhile, the role 
of  migrants  in  the  dynamic  of  creating  capital  in  the 
country of destination is ignored. In our view, which is 
supported by academic studies, the main contribution of 
migrants is found to be in the countries of destination, 
not in the countries of origin.
In conclusion, therefore, Ecuador reiterates that the 
issue of migration must be dealt with in a cross-cutting 
way and incorporated in the United Nations system in 
a comprehensive and functional manner. The approach 
to migration policies has to be elaborated through the 
participation  of  civil  society  and  migrants,  leading  to 
public policies that allow a dignified life and decent jobs 
for migrants and promote transnational citizenship. We 
criticize  the  hardening  of  migration  policies  not  only 
because it flouts the fundament rights of migrants but 
also  because  it  encourages  various  types  of  irregular 
migration,  trafficking  in  persons  and  other  unlawful 
practices. We urge the main countries of destination to 
formulate permanent regularization programmes.
This  problem  cannot  be  solved  by  fences,  walls 
or  barriers  that  jeopardize  the  lives  of  millions  of 
human  beings  —  women,  men,  children  and  young 
people  —  from  the  poorest  corners  of  the  world. 
The  problem  is  structural  in  nature  and  demands  a 
new  international  economic  order  that  envisages  the 
democratization of the international system and reduces 
social inequalities and economic asymmetries between 
countries.  If  we  all  work  hand  in  hand  and  have  the 
political will for it, a new world is possible.
Ms.  Tichy-Fisslberger  (Austria):  Austria  would 
like to be begin by saying that we align ourelves with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union and its member States.
I  would  also  like  to  stress  that  this  High-level 
Dialogue is taking place at an important moment in time. 
With  230  million  international  migrants,  migration  is 
one of the global megatrends of our time. At the same 
time, discussions on the post-2015 development agenda 
have  triggered  a  new  and  very  timely  interest  in  the 
interlinkage of migration and development, particularly 
in  how  migration  can  be  harnessed  to  achieve  better 
development.  That  relationship  is  multifaceted  and 
complex,  and  more  thorough  analysis  is  required  to 
obtain  a  clearer  picture  of  the  way  migration  and 
development  can  influence  each  other.  We  hope  that 
this  Dialogue  will  provide  an  impetus  for  substantial 
discussions, effective follow-up meetings and, finally, 
concrete results.
Austria  would  particularly  like  to  thank  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration  (IOM)  for 
its contribution to the High-level Dialogue. Ever since 
the  first  High-level  Dialogue  meeting,  in  2006,  IOM 
membership has consistently grown, which in itself is 
evidence of its success. With its wealth of experience, 
expertise  and  knowledge,  the  IOM,  as  the  world’s 
leading  organization  in  the  field  of  migration,  is 
uniquely  placed  to  enrich  this  debate  in  the  years  to 
come.  We  would  therefore  like  to  encourage  all  the 
relevant United Nations organizations, as well as other 
organizations and stakeholders in the field of migration, 
to  cooperate.  Enhancing  cooperation,  particularly 
by  sharing  experiences  and  best  practices,  is  crucial 
to  developing  a  more  coherent  global  approach  to 
migration and development.
In my country’s view, it is interesting that the latest 
World  Migration  Report  2013:  Migrant  Well-Being 
and  Development,  rather  than  focusing  on  economic 
indicators  for  development,  very  much  stresses  the 
individual migrants as the main focus of the debate and 
of analysis, as well as the question of how far various 
factors  can  influence  migrants’  well-being,  which  is 
exactly  what  this  debate  should  be  all  about.  Austria 
would also like to acknowledge the important role that 
the Global Forum on Migration and Development has 
played since its inception as a platform for dialogue and 
for the exchange of good practices among stakeholders.
I  would  now  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  our 
priorities, one of which is fighting abuse. However, on 
behalf of my country, I would first like to add my voice 
to  the  condolences  that  have  been  expressed  by  other 
speakers  in  connection  with  the  recent  tragedy  in  the 
Mediterranean  —  and  not  only  for  that  one  tragedy, 
because there has been a long series of such tragedies, 
and  most  of  them,  unfortunately,  are  in  one  way  or 
another a consequence of abuse.
13-49793
11/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
Another  phenomenon  of  abuse  that  is  becoming 
more and more frequent and complex is trafficking in 
persons.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  there  is  a  special 
round table dedicated to the topic. Austria is affected 
by human trafficking as a country of both transit and 
destination,  and  it  is  obvious  to  us  that  no  country 
by  itself  can  counter  this  complex  phenomenon.  We 
therefore  stress  the  need  for  multilateral  cooperation 
in  the  fight  against  human  trafficking.  Among  other 
things, Austria has ratified all the relevant international 
legal instruments for combating human trafficking.
In  that  context,  the  human  rights  perspective 
is  very  important.  Our  policy  is  therefore  guided 
by  a  multidisciplinary  approach  that  encompasses 
measures for prevention, the protection of victims and 
prosecution. We also believe it is important to cooperate 
with  non-governmental  organizations.  Austria  has 
consistently  supported  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
this  area  and  has  been  a  sponsor  of  all  the  relevant 
resolutions on fighting human trafficking. However, if 
we do not tackle its underlying causes, such as poverty, 
the  lack  of  the  rule  of  law,  corruption  and  so  forth, 
all  efforts  will  remain  a  fight  against  symptoms.  The 
prevention  of  human  trafficking  by  fighting  poverty 
and increasing human security is therefore an area of 
focus  for  us  in  projects  with  partner  countries  of  the 
Austrian  Development  Cooperation,  which  carry  out 
various projects in the field. Those include, for instance, 
a programme on return and integration in Moldova, one 
that  enables  female  migrants  to  choose  safe  routes  to 
labour migration in Nepal, and other similar projects.
I  would  also  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
the  public  perception  of  migration.  In  Vienna,  in 
February, Austria hosted the fifth Global Forum of the 
United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  The  Forum 
focused  on  how  responsible  leadership  could  make  a 
difference  in  shaping  a  new  narrative  for  migration, 
integration  and  mobility  in  the  global  economy.  The 
conclusions  reached  highlighted  the  importance  of 
enhancing  education,  training  and  data  collection. 
Addressing myths and misconceptions about migration 
is  an  important  task.  Another  finding  was  that  social 
inclusion and integration were not always easy; on the 
contrary,  they  are  very  difficult  to  achieve.  For  that 
reason, civil society’s participation in policy processes 
is critical.
In  recent  years  we  have  observed  a  considerable 
change  in  the  way  we  think  about  the  development 
and  migration  nexus.  There  has  been  a  shift  from  a 
problem-oriented  approach  to  greater  recognition  of 
the contribution of migration to poverty reduction and 
development. We are aware that remittances constitute 
a  significant  proportion  of  gross  domestic  product  in 
many  countries  and,  according  to  the  World  Bank, 
amounted to more than $500 billion in 2012. Knowing 
how important it is, the Austrian Ministry of Finance 
therefore  supports 
the  World  Bank’s  remittances 
programme  by  financing  studies  and  disseminating 
information.
Those  are  some  of  the  concrete  projects  that  we 
consider  necessary  in  order  to  harness  migration  for 
development.  Our  hope  is  that  this  forum,  like  those 
before it, will lead to many more concrete projects, all 
of which will help to enhance the nexus of migration 
and development.
Ms.  Southern  (Australia):  Australia  would  also 
like  to  express  its  condolences  to  the  families  and 
compatriots of those lost at sea en route to Lampedusa 
today.  That  is  a  scenario  we  know  too  well,  with 
hundreds of lives lost in recent years through dangerous 
maritime ventures to Australia.
the  opportunity 
Australia  welcomes 
to  be 
here  today  at  the  second  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development.  We  are  a 
nation of migrants. Since 1945, more than 7.2 million 
people  have  migrated  to  Australia,  and  nearly  half  of 
all Australians were either born overseas or have one or 
both parents born overseas. The fact that approximately 
60  per  cent  of  current  population  growth  stems  from 
net  overseas  migration  is  indicative  of  the  significant 
role  that  migration  plays  in  shaping  Australia.  While 
ours  is  just  one  story,  we  recognize  that  the  features 
of global movement are increasingly complex in terms 
of direction, motivation and duration, and that requires 
thoughtful policy responses.
The  World  Migration  Report  2013:  Migrant 
Well-Being  and  Development  of  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  (IOM)  refers  to  four 
migration pathways — between north and south in both 
directions, north to north and the growing trend of south-
south  movement.  The  challenges  and  opportunities 
encompass  complex  people  movements,  with  drivers 
ranging from economic needs to crises, environmental 
disasters, exploitation, criminality, persecution and the 
search for a better life.
For  our  part,  Australia  views  migration  as  a 
critical  nation-building  tool.  We  believe  in  robust 
12/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
migration  policies  founded  on  a  firm  evidence  base. 
Our  migration  programmes,  both  permanent  and 
temporary,  have  been  developed  to  create  targeted, 
orderly  and  safe  migration  paths  —  for  migrants  and 
their families — that facilitate triple wins: for migrants, 
for Australia and for countries of origin. Opportunities 
to  work  in  Australia  can  support  the  development  of 
new  skills  and  provide  access  to  higher  incomes.  To 
optimize those benefits, Australia has actively engaged 
in  the  Group  of  20  discussions  to  reduce  the  costs  of 
remittances. We recognize that there is more work to be 
done, and we are committed to that cause.
We  know  that  the  integration  of  migrants  is  the 
key to a successful migration outcome. To deliver that, 
Australia has benefited from partnerships with highly 
effective civil society organizations. Our programmes 
ensure  that  migrants  are  best  prepared  for  their  new 
environments,  that  migrants’  skills  and  jobs  are  well 
matched and that communities are ready with support 
and services.
There  are  other  key  partnerships  and  cooperation 
efforts that enable us to manage migration well. I must 
highlight  the  importance  of  our  partnership  with  the 
IOM.  As  the  only  international  organization  with  a 
mandate  centred  on  migration,  the  IOM  has  a  unique 
voice  and  a  vital  international  role.  Our  partnership 
has been a strong one for many decades. We welcome 
its  breadth  of  experience  in  operations  and  depth  of 
commitment  to  treating  migrants  with  respect  and 
dignity.
A key outcome of the first High-level Dialogue was 
the  establishment  of  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration 
and  Development,  which  gave  States  a  mechanism 
to  foster  international  dialogue.  Australia  is  fully 
committed to the Global Forum and looks forward to 
it taking forward the key preoccupations arising from 
this second High-level Dialogue.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  State-led  initiative  on 
migrants  in  crises,  which  builds  on  the  experience 
of  the  Libyan  crisis  in  2011,  and  the  very  practical 
responses taken at that time. We hear the call for action 
by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General 
for International Migration, Mr. Peter Sutherland, and 
stand ready to engage as the initiative progresses.
We believe that approaches premised upon regional 
cooperation provide enduring solutions to the complex 
challenges of mixed migration flows and the trafficking 
and smuggling of migrants. That includes strategies to 
support  countries  of  first  asylum  and  measures  that 
stabilize secondary movement.
Australia  places  great  emphasis  on  the  work  of 
the Bali Process on People Smuggling, Trafficking in 
Persons  and  Related  Transnational  Crime,  which  we 
co-chair  with  Indonesia  and  which  brings  together 
countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  Both 
the  IOM  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  are  valuable  partners  in 
the  work  of  the  Bali  Process  regional  support  office, 
which  was  established  in  Bangkok.  To  strengthen 
the  protection  of  vulnerable  migrants  and  to  address 
the  unfortunate  criminal  elements  that  exist,  we  urge 
greater  efforts  in  support  and  implementation  of  the 
Trafficking  in  Persons  and  Smuggling  of  Migrants 
Protocols  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime.
We need to make migration work for all countries, 
but  we  also  need  to  make  migration  work  for  all 
migrants, the communities that receive them and their 
communities back home. We believe that safe, regular 
and  enabling  migration  is  the  best  way  for  States  to 
achieve this. Strong partnerships at all levels will help 
us deliver that goal.
Ms.  Annus  (Estonia):  It  is  a  profound  honour  to 
take  the  floor  at  this  timely  event  highlighting  the 
importance  and  interconnectedness  of  migration  and 
sustainable development.
Estonia  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the observer of the European Union, and I 
would like to make some additional remarks.
Estonia  acknowledges  the  important  contribution 
of migration in realizing the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Human  mobility  is  a  key  factor  for 
sustainable  development  and  should  be  adequately 
considered in the elaboration of the post-2015 agenda. 
Although the incentives for people to leave their homes 
can include a wide range of reasons with both positive 
and  negative  shades,  we  can  all  agree  that  migration 
has been an integral part of human societies throughout 
history. In the era of globalization, we can expect that 
human mobility will only intensify.
comprehensive 
Keeping  in  mind  the  commitment  to  a  more 
coherent, 
and  better-coordinated 
approach  to  migration  and  development,  we  should 
have  two  general  objectives  for  our  debate:  first, 
reconciling  ourselves  with  migration  processes  and 
identifying  and  encouraging  the  positive  implications 
13-49793
13/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
innovation, 
of  migration,  such  as  its  contribution  to  economic 
development, 
investment; 
and,  secondly,  overcoming  the  negative  aspects  of 
involuntary  migration  by  tackling  the  root  causes  of 
forced migration in countries of origin.
trade  and 
It is the responsibility of each State to protect human 
rights and provide services to every person within their 
borders, especially the most vulnerable persons, such as 
women and children. Each State should focus on good 
governance. Supporting the rule of law, strengthening 
independent judicial mechanisms, ending impunity and 
ensuring  accountability  and  responsive  Government 
are  some  measures  to  take  on  the  path  to  ensuring 
proper sustainable development for all.
community 
can  provide 
assistance in building up the capacities and resilience 
of  countries  struggling  with  development  challenges 
or being affected by adverse climate features. National 
ownership,  a  determination  to  solve  problems,  good-
governance practices and the rule of law are essential 
in order to make the most of international assistance.
international 
The 
Let me also underline that, due to global population 
dynamics and the nature of globalized economies, labour 
mobility  is  both  inevitable  and  welcomed.  We  must 
respect and promote international labour standards as 
appropriate and respect the rights of migrant workers. 
We must make a stronger effort to tackle discrimination 
against migrants and to improve public perceptions of 
migrants and migration.
The  challenges  related  to  the  integration  and 
reintegration  of  migrants,  including  the  adaptation  of 
national  labour  markets  and  systems  for  health  care, 
education  and  social  security  to  increasingly  diverse 
and  interconnected  societies,  must  be  addressed.  It 
should be acknowledged that refugees and other persons 
in need of protection can present significant challenges 
for some host countries and communities. It should also 
be  recognized  that,  through  empowerment,  migrants 
can make important contributions to host communities 
and local and national economies.
Estonian  information  and  communication  technology 
entrepreneurs, is one way to tackle those challenges.
With the Assembly’s permission, I would now like 
to  draw  attention  to  the  most  vulnerable  migrants, 
namely, refugees and other persons in need of protection. 
According  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees, more people in the world 
have been forced to flee from their homes this year than 
any other year in nearly two decades. That includes the 
more  than  1.5  million  people  who  have  left  Syria  to 
escape  the  humanitarian  crisis  there.  The  increasing 
flow  of  refugees  from  Syria  is  substantially  affecting 
the entire region and beyond, with a substantial impact 
on  host  communities,  economies, 
infrastructure, 
environment and security.
It  is  important  that  the  international  community 
make coordinated efforts to assist and support migrants 
stranded 
in  vulnerable  situations.  The  protection 
needs  of  refugees  and  other  displaced  persons  should 
be addressed as close as possible to their countries of 
origin. We need to devise development initiatives that 
target  refugee  communities  as  well  as  host  countries 
and  host  communities.  I  can  confirm  that  Estonia  is 
committed to providing financial and expert support to 
meet the pressing needs of the most vulnerable.
Finally,  I  wish  to  remind  us  all  that  the  main 
challenge  of  the  post-2015  negotiations  will  be  to 
formulate and reach global agreement on a concrete and 
measurable set of development goals that keep the three 
dimensions of sustainability at its core and maintain a 
sharp focus on poverty eradication. The targets should 
leave no one behind and be applicable and achievable 
in every country.
Both the positive and negative aspects of migration 
must  be  taken  into  account  while  discussing  the 
sustainable  development  goals.  In  order  to  allow  us 
to  benefit  from  the  positive  aspects  of  migration  and 
minimize the negative aspects, it must be ensured that 
migration  is  well  managed  through  evidence-based 
policies and decision-making.
A more mobile labour force implies the increasing 
importance of remittances as a significant contribution 
to  private  financing  for  development  in  migrants’ 
home countries. Therefore, the conditions for cheaper, 
faster  and  safer  transfers  of  remittances  in  both 
source  and  recipient  countries  should  be  promoted. 
Cooperation with innovative private-sector companies, 
such  as  TransferWise,  which  was  set  up  by  young 
Mr. Fakili (Turkey): As the Chair of the Budapest 
Process since 2006, Turkey has been closely involved 
in  the  global  debate  and  international  cooperation  in 
the area of migration management, from a security and 
control-oriented  approach  to  a  more  comprehensive, 
holistic  concept  of  migration  governance.  Turkey 
is  willing  to  further  engage  in  the  area  of  migration 
governance, in line with the dynamic role it is expected 
14/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
to  play  in  future  efforts  to  manage  migration  in  the 
Eurasia region.
in  addition  to  conventional  mechanisms  to  combat 
migrant trafficking.
Turkey  has  decided  to  take  on  the  challenging 
task  of  chairing  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development in 2015, not only because of its increasing 
significance with respect to migration but also because 
of  our  increasing  commitment  to  development  issues. 
Turkey  has  vast  experience  to  share  in  the  area  of 
migration  and  development.  We  are  in  the  process 
of  determining  the  game  plan  for  our  chairmanship. 
Naturally, there is still much to do. We will assume the 
priorities of previous Chairs, whose work we appreciate 
wholeheartedly. On top of their work, we will add our 
own contribution.
In  that  context,  I  can  announce  that  additional 
points of concentration will be on promoting mobility; 
decreasing obstacles such as visas and similar barriers; 
ensuring the human rights of migrants and cooperation 
in  combating  illegal  migration;  abolishing  notions 
of  racism,  discrimination  and  xenophobia;  creating 
international mechanisms to ensure transfers of social 
security benefits, utilizing the Turkish experience with 
small and medium enterprises — which is considered 
one  of  the  best  means  of  development  —  as  well  as 
Turkey’s  successful  story  of  transformation  from  a 
source country to one of destination.
is 
Recognition 
the  fundamental  need  of  all 
migrants. Their recognition by the countries in which 
they  are  migrants  would,  first  and  foremost,  ensure 
their access to basic services such as health, education 
and social security. It would also enable them to better 
integrate and contribute to both the host communities 
and their own.
Given the fact that a holistic approach is critical in 
migration management, maintaining a balance between 
security and human rights will become a crucial aspect 
of Turkey’s future migration policy, which should also 
emphasize the needs and rights of migrants.
We  believe  that  all  aspects  of  migration  at  the 
national,  regional  and  global  levels  are  interlinked 
and  must  not  be  addressed  in  isolation.  For  example, 
rather than considering the issue of irregular migration 
from  a  limited  security  perspective,  we  believe  that 
development  policies  should  focus  on  the  root  causes 
influencing  persons  towards  irregular  migration,  so 
as to help find durable solutions for both sending and 
receiving  countries.  Irregular  migration  can  be  best 
avoided  by  providing  mechanisms  for  legal  migration 
The  fifth  ministerial  conference  of  the  Budapest 
Process, held in Istanbul on 19 April, brought together 
28 ministers and deputy ministers, 230 delegates from 
52 participating and observer countries, and the relevant 
regional and international organizations. The meeting 
adopted  the  Istanbul  ministerial  declaration  on  a  Silk 
Routes  Partnership  for  Migration,  which  addresses 
migration and development as a specific priority area, 
with  its  goal  of  strengthening  the  positive  impact  of 
migration  on  development  in  both  countries  of  origin 
and of destination. The declaration is a strong indicator 
of  the  link  between  the  future  work  of  the  Budapest 
Process and the goals and aim of the Global Forum on 
Migration  and  Development.  The  Istanbul  declaration 
has already been referred to as one of the most balanced 
and  far-reaching  documents  in  the  field  of  migration, 
adopted by a wide range of countries.
sustainable, 
A  wide  range  of  activities  are  foreseen  in  the 
declaration,  such  as  mainstreaming  migration  into 
development  planning  and  taking  development  issues 
into  account  when  elaborating  migration  policies; 
promoting 
comprehensive,  balanced 
and  efficient  policies  on  migration  and  development; 
ensuring  a  multi-actor  approach  that  includes  the 
relevant development stakeholders, including from the 
public  and  private  sectors,  to  engage  in  dialogue  and 
concrete  cooperation;  facilitating  circular  migration 
and active engagement in development; engaging with 
diasporas  to  make  better  use  of  their  contributions; 
improving the use of monetary and social remittances 
for the benefit of the sustainable economic and social 
development  of  the  countries  of  origin;  fostering 
sustainable  reintegration;  counteracting  the  possible 
negative  effects  of  emigration  on  countries  of  origin; 
addressing 
relief, 
humanitarian assistance and sustainable development; 
exploring  and  addressing  development-related  causes 
of migration; and developing and strengthening small 
and medium-sized entrepreneurship by migrants.
in 
the 
declaration covers six priority areas — migration and 
mobility, 
integration,  migration  and  development, 
irregular  migration, 
in  persons  and 
international  protection —  that  are  all  relevant  to  the 
High-level Dialogue on Migration and Development.
The  operational  cooperation  foreseen 
the  gap  between  emergency 
trafficking 
Mr.  Storr  (United  Kingdom):  First,  the  United 
Kingdom would like to echo the sentiments expressed 
13-49793
15/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
by the observer of the European Commission and other 
speakers  in  connection  with  the  tragic  events  of  this 
morning in Lampedusa.
I take this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment 
to  working  constructively  with  our  global  partners. 
Migration and development can be addressed properly 
only  through  international  cooperation.  The  United 
Kingdom believes that requires a truly global approach. 
Less than half of migration is now from developing to 
developed countries. Our discussions therefore need a 
broader agenda that more fully reflects that fact.
A  renewal  of  our  agenda  is  also  timely  given  the 
fact  that  the  post-2015  development  agenda  is  taking 
place at this moment. The High-level Panel of Eminent 
Persons  on  that  framework,  co-chaired  by  United 
Kingdom  Prime  Minister  David  Cameron,  noted  the 
continuing  significant  of  international  cooperation 
and international migration. What is less clear is how 
we  should  take  account  of  migration  in  the  future 
development agenda.
In our view, the case has not yet been made out to 
include a post-2015 goal on migration, given the risk of 
diluting the focus on extreme poverty. For that reason, 
we  believe  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  should  be 
measured and realistic in its recommendations in that 
area.
The  United  Kingdom  also  believes 
that  any 
enhanced  focus  on  migration  and  development  must 
take account of aid-effectiveness principles. Ultimately, 
we believe our aim should not be about enhancing the 
links  between  migration  and  development  per  se,  but 
about enhancing effective action to deliver on partner 
countries’ development priorities. If we wish to enhance 
the  links  between  migration  and  development,  fair, 
effective and transparent national systems are also an 
essential element. In the United Kingdom, our system 
manages  labour  migration  from  outside  the  European 
Union  in  a  way  that  meets  labour  market  needs,  but 
that also, importantly, works for migrants themselves. 
It is what we describe as a win-win situation. We are 
able  to  meet  skills  shortages  while  migrants  can  see 
for  themselves  what  opportunities  exist  to  work  in 
the United Kingdom — and face the same qualifying 
criteria irrespective of their nationality.
Well-managed  migration,  including,  importantly, 
returns  and  reintegration,  is  also  integral  to  ensuring 
the  benefits  of  migration  for  all.  On  that  basis,  the 
United  Kingdom  supports  this  High-level  Dialogue’s 
attention  to  orderly,  regular  and  safe  migration,  and 
its focus on human trafficking. On the issue of human 
trafficking,  we  are  committed  to  playing  a  full  part 
in  the  fight  against  it.  We  regard  it  as  an  issue  that 
deserves greater political and practical priority. It is, in 
essence, modern slavery. That is why we work closely 
with global partners to investigate and prosecute cases 
both at home and abroad. It is also the reason why the 
Government  of  the  United  Kingdom  is  taking  a  long, 
hard look at its own legislation, to see whether there are 
changes that should be made — although I should say 
that  the  legislation  currently  in  place  conforms  fully 
with  the  Protocols  to  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against Transnational Organized Crime.
in 
that 
regard 
It  is  also  important  that  we  support  the  victims 
of  trafficking,  who  are  among  the  most  vulnerable 
migrants.  Our  commitment 
is 
evident — for example, in the United Kingdom we have 
supported anti-trafficking projects for girls and women 
in  South  Asia,  focused  on  female  migrants  going  to 
the  Middle  East  to  work  in  the  domestic-worker  and 
garment-manufacturing  sectors.  We  therefore  hope 
that this High-level Dialogue will encourage all States 
Members of the United Nations to make further efforts 
to  combat  trafficking,  identify  its  victims  and,  where 
possible, help them return to a safe and secure life in 
their country of origin.
In concluding, I would once again like to welcome 
this High-level Dialogue as an opportunity to develop 
international  cooperation  that  reflects  the  nature  of 
global  migration.  In  focusing  on  the  links  between 
migration  and  development,  we  should  be  mindful  of 
the need for transparency and fairness within national 
and  international  approaches.  And,  while  seizing  the 
opportunity  to  enhance  the  benefits  of  migration  by 
managing it properly, we should also make use of this 
opportunity  to  address  its  negative  aspects,  such  as 
human trafficking, and ensure that migration policies 
create a win-win situation for all of us.
Mr.  Châtaigner  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
reason we are here today is because we are all aware of the 
importance of migration for development. Since our last 
Dialogue, in 2006, regional and international mobility 
has continued to grow. That constitutes both a challenge 
and an opportunity for countries of origin, transit and 
destination.  Where  the  opportunities  are  concerned, 
migration has contributed to the achievement of many 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  According 
to  the  World  Bank,  migrant  remittances  for  this  year 
16/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
alone  total  $414  billion,  three  times  as  much  as  total 
official  development  assistance.  Migrant  remittances 
can  be  directed  to  productive  investment  and  create 
jobs.  They  also  serve  the  essential  function  of  social 
protection. Migrants bring with them not simply money 
and  work  but  also  ideas,  standards  and  new  practices 
that  transform  both  their  countries  of  destination  and 
their  countries  of  origin.  Their  wealth,  ultimately,  is 
human wealth. They are people, and that is worth far 
more than all the rest.
for 
resources 
Where  the  challenges  are  concerned,  the  growth 
of  South-South  migration  is  a  major  development 
issue  for  countries  that  need  to  better  mobilize  their 
domestic 
their  own  development. 
Migration  —  between  North  and  South,  South  and 
South,  North  and  North  —  makes  us  all  countries  of 
immigration  and  emigration.  Currently,  for  example, 
there are 1.6 million French people living outside France 
who in a sense are ambassadors for our values. Aware of 
the challenges of this new type of migration, France has 
seriously revised its migration and development policy. 
Its  guiding  principle  is  one  of  building  partnerships 
for development with every diaspora organization, the 
authorities in partner countries, the private sector and 
civil society. In a way, we are building a kind of global 
civil society.
There  are  four  complementary  areas  within  our 
activities in support of migrants’ potential for solidarity, 
particularly  through  assisting  diaspora  associations 
and  carrying  out  their  projects;  supporting  migrants’ 
investment  capacity  by  co-financing  development 
projects; strengthening partnership countries’ capacity 
to integrate mobility and migration into their national 
and 
finally, 
contributing to international dialogues and the creation 
of knowledge, all focused on the fact that at some point 
we must consider how to better manage our migration 
systems.
local  development 
strategies;  and, 
In very specific and functional terms, France, for 
example,  through  its  development  agency,  has  helped 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  to  define  its  public  policy 
on supporting productive investment for the diaspora. 
Those investments make up only about 20 per cent of 
total remittances, but they have a very strong potential 
impact  on  development  because  they  respond  to  the 
State’s  essential  concern,  which  is  increasing  and 
improving  financial  accessibility  and  creating  jobs. 
We  have  also  concluded  an  agreement  with  Senegal 
for  the  implementation  a  project  to  co-finance  local 
Government projects with migrants in order to mobilize 
the diaspora and contribute to the digital integration of 
outlying regions. Since 2009, 92 infrastructure projects 
have been financed in that way at a level of €10 million, 
and  262  businesses  created  with  an  investment  of 
€3  million.  Through  that  concrete  experience,  France 
hopes  that  the  role  of  migrants  in  developing  their 
countries  of  origin  can  be  fully  recognized  within 
the  framework  of  the  sustainable  development  goals 
and within the post-2015 programme and architecture 
we  hope  to  build.  How  can  that  be  done?  Certainly 
not  by  discussing  specific  goals,  but  through  cross-
cutting inclusion of the issue of migration in the post-
2015  agenda  as  a  whole.  That  could  take  the  form 
of  establishing  specific  targets  linked  to  migration 
that  would  apply  to  each  major  thematic  goal  of  the 
forthcoming  agenda:  health,  education,  youth  and 
employment.
The  recognition  of  migrants  and  migration  in 
the  post-2015  agenda  should  also  include  a  renewed 
partnership  on  migration  issues.  We  are  in  favour  of 
pursuing  international  cooperation  within  the  Group 
of Eight and the Group of 20 in order to increase and 
facilitate  financial  flows  of  migrants  to  developing 
countries,  and  to  reduce  the  associated  costs  of  those 
transactions,  which  ties  in  with  what  I  mentioned 
just  now  about  how  important  it  is  to  include  better 
governance and management of that migration on our 
international agenda.
Lastly,  France  and  the  other  members  of  the 
European  Union  are  convinced  that  the  protection 
of  the  fundamental  rights  of  migrants,  regardless  of 
their  status,  must  remain  a  cross-cutting  priority  in 
all policies. Trafficking in human beings is a flagrant 
violation of human rights and must be robustly combated, 
in accordance with current international standards. The 
situation of migrants caught in certain crisis situations 
is also a matter of concern. We therefore welcome the 
exemplary action by the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM) to assist such migrants in the recent 
crises in Libya, Somalia, Mali and Syria. We assure the 
IOM of our resolute support.
Mr.  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  express  my  delegation’s  condolences  to 
the bereaved families of those who lost their lives this 
morning off the southern coast of Italy.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25).
13-49793
17/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
Historically,  Iran,  an  ancient  civilization,  was  at 
the heart of the famous Silk Road connecting the West 
and  the  East  by  linking  traders,  merchants,  pilgrims, 
monks,  soldiers,  nomads  and  urban  dwellers  from 
the Far East to the far West during various periods of 
time.  Its  geopolitical  position  provided  Iran  a  unique 
opportunity to contribute to international migration as 
the bridge between East and West.
Today,  with  232  million  international  migrants  in 
the  world,  migration  has  increased  in  volume,  scope, 
complexity and impact since the adoption in 1994 of the 
Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development.  It  is  an  intrinsic 
feature  of  a  globalizing  world  in  which  economic, 
social,  demographic,  political  and  environmental 
factors all should be considered in assessing the effects 
of international migration on sustainable development 
and  in  identifying  relevant  priorities  in  view  of  the 
preparation of the post-2015 development framework.
At the national level, the Islamic Republic of Iran 
has established the High Council of Iranians Abroad in 
the presidential office. It offers services to all Iranian 
migrants, including those who are highly educated and 
skilled  and  thus  play  an  important  role  in  their  host 
communities all over the world.
We urge destination States to avoid imposing any 
limitations  on  contacts  between  migrants  and  their 
States  of  origin.  That  is  especially  important  with 
regard to migrants who are highly educated and skilled. 
Continuing  contact  between  them  and  their  States  of 
origin  could  contribute  to  the  transfer  of  knowledge 
and skills and accelerate the development of developing 
countries.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  been  an  active 
member of the International Organization for Migration 
(IOM)  for  more  than  a  decade.  We  have  had  joint 
initiatives  with  the  IOM  on  disseminating  knowledge 
of  international  migration  law  in  Tehran  since  2007. 
We  have  jointly  established  and  run  with  IOM  an 
important  programme  on  international  migration  and 
development,  funded  by  the  Government  of  Japan, 
called  Return  and  Reintegration  of  Qualified  and 
Skilled Afghan Nationals from the Islamic Republic of 
Iran to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
their  relations,  communications,  transactions,  access 
and transportation to the country of origin should not 
in any way be restricted by the destination countries. 
Nor should they face any discrimination at all in their 
access  to  academic  education  and  to  scientific  and 
financial resources.
The Islamic Republic of Iran remains cooperative 
with  all  States  and  with  the  United  Nations  system 
and  other  relevant  organizations,  especially  through 
the offices of the United Nations Population Fund and 
IOM in Tehran, to meet the challenges of migration, as 
well as making migration an opportunity for creating a 
better world for all in the future.
Ms.  Tapley 
(Canada):  Canada  extends 
its 
appreciation  to  the  Office  of  the  President.  I  would 
like to thank the Secretary-General for convening this 
second High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development.
Much  has  happened  in  our  global  community 
since  the  High-level  Dialogue  in  2006.  The  world  is 
increasingly characterized by globalization not only of 
the economy but also in terms of the mobility of people 
at an unprecedented pace, magnitude and complexity, 
with  impacts  in  many  areas,  including  development. 
We  are  virtually  all  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination  for  international  migrants.  As  members 
of the international community, we increasingly share 
not  only  our  successes  but  also  our  challenges  in 
national,  regional  and  international  efforts  to  harness 
the benefits of migration for States and migrants alike. 
Canada shares the view that migration is a process to be 
managed, not a problem to be solved.
Allow me to highlight three overarching issues that 
are of interest to Canada in international migration and 
its links to development. First is the important role we 
have  as  individual  countries  and  as  an  international 
community  to  promote  safe,  orderly  and  managed 
migration. Second is the importance of expanding our 
ability to work individually and collectively at all levels 
and  to  maximize  the  development  impacts  and  other 
benefits of migration while addressing key challenges. 
Third  is  the  importance  of  better  leveraging  existing 
global  and  regional  forums  and  partnerships  to  make 
meaningful progress towards those ends.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  shares  with  many 
countries  the  view  that  highly  skilled  and  educated 
international  migrants  can  play  an  important  role  in 
the  development  of  their  countries  of  origin;  hence, 
Drawing  on  our  experience  with  immigration, 
Canada  has  long  advocated  safe,  legal  and  orderly 
migration  as  the  most  effective  way  to  harness  the 
benefits  of  migration  while  addressing  its  challenges. 
18/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
To be effective in meeting the needs and expectations 
of migrants and societies alike, migration needs to be 
managed.
(spoke in French)
This  High-level  Dialogue  is  an  opportunity  to 
take  stock  of  our  efforts  in  the  field  of  international 
migration  and  its  links  with  development;  to  move 
forward  on  concrete  issues  that  support  development 
and  promote,  protect  and  respect  the  human  rights  of 
migrants; and to enhance their well-being and ability to 
contribute to their host and home countries.
(spoke in English)
Canada  is  interested  in  exploring  further,  with 
partners,  innovative  approaches  that  complement  and 
strengthen  the  efforts  of  Governments  to  ensure  safe 
and orderly labour migration and the protection of the 
human and labour rights of migrants, including through 
ethical recruitment practices.
The  issue  of  remittances  is  an  important  one  for 
Canada.  We  will  continue  to  work  with  the  Group 
of  20  (G-20)  to  consider  innovative,  results-based 
mechanisms to further reduce the cost of transferring 
remittances to developing countries.
Canada will continue to support the sharing of best 
practices  and  efforts  in  capacity-building  at  various 
levels in migration management, immigrant integration 
and the protection of the human rights of migrants. We 
will also support a deepened effort for greater data and 
evidence on the links between international migration 
and development.
To  be  successful  in  the  global  dialogue,  it  is 
important  that  we  continue  to  engage  interested 
stakeholders  at  all  levels,  to  focus  on  concrete  issues 
of  mutual  interest  that  lend  themselves  to  practical 
partnerships,  and  to  improve  implementation  and 
coordination  of  existing  frameworks  and  mechanisms 
to deliver real outcomes.
Canada  is  pleased  with  the  pragmatic  approach 
that  the  International  Organization  for  Migration  and 
relevant  United  Nations  bodies  have  been  taking  to 
address a number of these issues, and in that regard we 
welcome the strong support of the Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  International  Migration, 
whose role has been important for the progress we have 
made  since  2006.  We  value  the  contribution  of  civil 
society and the private sector to this practical dialogue, 
and we need to ensure that each of those voices is given 
the opportunity to develop and to be heard.
Canada is pleased to continue to engage actively in 
a number of regional consultative processes, as well as 
in  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development, 
which  is  an  important  forum  to  exchange  practices, 
promote  collaboration  on  practical 
issues  and, 
ultimately, build trust and partnerships.
(spoke in French)
Canada’s ultimate goal is to reach, in the framework 
of this High-level Dialogue, an exchange that builds on 
our shared accomplishments and on the work of many 
important actors in international migration, especially 
since the earlier High-level Dialogue. We are confident 
that this Dialogue will provide a platform to guide us 
in moving forward constructively on concrete issues of 
shared interest.
Today 
of 
questions 
Mr. Amanbayev (Kazakhstan) (spoke in Russian): I 
would like to inform the Assembly of the measures that 
the Republic of Kazakhstan has undertaken to regulate 
migration processes, including labour migration issues.
population  migration, 
specifically  labour  migration,  are  becoming  more 
pressing  for  countries  in  the  Central  Asian  region, 
including  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan.  Russia  and 
Kazakhstan  host  the  largest  numbers  of  migrants  in 
the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). In the 
Central Asian States, more than 90 per cent of migration 
is  interregional  in  nature  and  occurs  among  the 
former  Soviet  republics.  The  Republic  of  Kazakhstan 
is  developing  modern  and  necessary  procedures  to 
regulate those processes within the country in order to 
ensure that the rights and interests of foreign migrants 
are  observed  and  that  they  are  provided  with  decent 
work opportunities.
In  2011  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan  adopted  a 
migration  law  under  which  immigrants  —  including 
foreigners and stateless persons who enter Kazakhstan 
for temporary or permanent residence — are recognized. 
In  that  law  we  have  defined  labour  migration  and 
created  norms  to  regulate  it,  including  a  quota  for 
labour migration for different categories of the foreign 
work force.
Up  to  2011,  Kazakhstan  gave  migrant  permits 
only  to  employers,  but  now  we  are  working  to 
encourage small businesses to open. We are providing 
special  work  permits.  Most  immigrants  coming  from 
13-49793
19/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
neighbouring countries end up working for the private 
sector,  and  that  is  why  we  are  planning  to  allow 
individuals  to  hire  foreign  workers.  We  have  defined 
a new category of immigrants — business immigrants, 
those  who  have  come  in  particularly  with  the  idea  of 
being  entrepreneurs.  We  have  enabled  them  to  obtain 
permission to work and have included them under the 
new law, as they were not specifically addressed under 
the  previous  law.  There  are  also  simplified  means  of 
attracting foreign workers in the new law.
We  underscore  that  Kazakhstan,  the  republics 
of  Central  Asia,  Russia  and  other  CIS  countries  have 
a  unified  migration  system.  We  note  that  a  labour 
immigration  policy  can  succeed  only  if  there  is  a 
coordinated effort on the part of all the countries of the 
region to carry out a joint policy. We have established 
that type of cooperation.
In  2007  the  States  members  of  the  CIS  created  a 
council  of  the  institutions  regulating  immigration, 
which  is  functioning  successfully  today.  For  seven 
years now we have been meeting twice a year to discuss 
current  issues  of  labour  migration.  At  those  meetings 
there are information exchanges and general trends are 
discussed, as are problems in immigration policies. We 
actively cooperate to assist legal migration and to bring 
and end to illegal migration.
Last  year  Kazakhstan  signed  the  concept  of  the 
CIS  member  States’  common  migration  space.  It 
represents an agreed position to create and strengthen 
a shared intergovernmental policy on migration in the 
region. Strategic areas in the concept include creating 
favourable conditions for movement of the labour force 
and  ensuring  equal  treatment  for  migrant  workers, 
widening the channels of legal employment for them and 
enhancing the effectiveness of inter-State cooperation 
in managing migration processes. Kazakhstan intends 
to  continue  that  work  in  the  framework  of  the  CIS. 
From our side we want to contribute to strengthening 
the institutions and mechanisms of migration in order 
to achieve socioeconomic stability in the region.
Moreover,  today  we  are  not  limiting  ourselves  to 
the CIS. Regulatory problems and the regional labour 
mobility  issues  are  being  raised  during  meetings  of 
the  customs  union  and  the  unified  economic  space. 
Further  economic  integration  in  the  region  is  posing 
new  questions  related  to  migration  and  to  respect  for 
the  rights  and  interests  of  labour  migrants,  which  is 
leading us to new, joint decisions.
We  adopted  the  Agreement  on  the  Legal  Status 
of Migrant Workers and Members of their Families in 
2010. In accordance with the Agreement, we eliminated 
procedures requiring work permits created by countries 
to protect their domestic labour markets. In fact, we can 
say that cooperation has been established to coordinate 
the migration processes between countries in the region. 
We are working intensively with them on those issues. 
I must also mention the support of United Nations and 
the International Organization for Migration, which are 
directly  involved  in  resolving  policy  issues  on  labour 
migration. Kazakhstan greatly appreciates those efforts 
by international organizations.
Mr.  Yeganyan  (Armenia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  join  previous  speakers  in  commending  the 
President  for  presiding  over  this  plenary  meeting  and 
thanking the Secretary-General and other speakers for 
their statements. We praise the Government of Mexico 
for its valuable contribution to the High-level Dialogue.
Armenia  is  a  nation  challenged  by  migration. 
It  is  the  most  recent  signatory  to  the  International 
Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All 
Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of  Their  Families. 
The  Government  has  identified  the  management  of 
migration  processes  as  one  of  its  priority  directions, 
and tangible improvements have been made within the 
last  three  years.  The  Concept  for  the  Policy  of  State 
Regulation  of  Migration  of  the  Republic  of  Armenia, 
with 14 priority areas, was adopted, and an action plan 
for 2012-2016, containing 147 concrete activities, was 
introduced for its implementation.
To reduce the negative consequences of emigration 
from  Armenia,  my  Government  has  taken  significant 
steps in establishing strong ties with a number of key 
partners.  Besides  its  growing  cooperation  with  the 
European Union, it has signed the mobility partnership 
declaration  and  visa  facilitation  and  readmission 
agreements. Today, eight migration projects — at a cost 
of  €9  million  —  are  being  implemented  in  Armenia 
with European States on both bilateral and multilateral 
cooperation platforms.
As  approximately  80  per  cent  of  Armenia’s 
emigrants  are  in  the  countries  of  the  Commonwealth 
of  Independent  States  (CIS),  the  country  is  actively 
involved 
the  region.  
Coordinated  action  is  under  way  to  establish  a  joint 
labour  market  and  manage  population  movements  in 
accordance with an agreed policy, as highlighted during 
integration  processes 
in 
in 
20/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
the CIS conference on labour migration as a factor of 
development in the CIS, held in June, in Moscow.
Armenia  considers  highly  important  the  issues 
concerning the return and reintegration of its citizens 
from  abroad  and  the  utilization  of  the  diaspora’s 
potential  as  a  key  element  in  the  country’s  migration 
and  development  agenda.  The  Armenian  diaspora 
represents  a  unique  phenomenon,  as  more  than  two 
thirds  of  Armenians  worldwide  reside  outside  the 
Republic  of  Armenia.  Currently,  there  are  Armenian 
communities in almost every country of the world. The 
traditional  diaspora  was  formed  mainly  as  a  result  of 
the  Armenian  genocide  of  1915.  In  the  past  20  years, 
the diaspora has been enriched by Armenian emigrants 
who left Armenia owing to socioeconomic hardship.
The  Armenian  Government  has  adopted  a  policy 
of  strengthening  the  ties  between  the  motherland  and 
the diaspora by promoting the latter’s cultural identity 
and  maintenance  of  national  traits  and  utilizing  the 
diaspora’s potential to develop the Armenian economy. 
The  steps  taken  to  achieve  those  goals  may  be  of 
great interest to other countries. Pursuant to the 2006 
amendments  to  the  Constitution,  foreign  citizens  of 
Armenian descent have the right to obtain citizenship of 
the Republic of Armenia through a simplified procedure. 
The All-Armenian Fund was established in 1992. The 
Fund  has  branches  in  more  than  40  countries.  All-
Armenian  global  conferences,  Pan-Armenian  Games, 
cultural  festivals  and  other  events  aimed  at  bringing 
together specialists of like professional background are 
organized on a regular basis. The establishment of the 
Ministry of Diaspora in 2008 provided a new impetus 
to the activities carried out with regard to the diaspora.
State policies regarding Armenian citizens residing 
abroad have mainly focused — since the early 1990s — on 
promoting their return and sustainable reintegration. In 
the development context, it should be underscored that 
returning migrants possess new knowledge and skills, 
new business ideas and fresh multicultural perceptions, 
all of which are particularly important to Armenia. That 
is why supporting such returns is one of the priorities of 
the Armenian Government’s migration policy.
The  issues  of  return  and  reintegration  are  both 
included  in  the  international  cooperation  agenda. 
Currently  a  consortium  composed  of  eight  European 
countries,  headed  by  the  French  immigration  and 
integration  office, 
long-term 
project  dealing  with  the  two  issues.  The  web  page 
implementing  a 
is 
enables 
returnees 
www.backtoarmenia.com 
to 
establish direct contact from abroad with the relevant 
governmental 
through 
electronic  communications,  including  Skype,  and  to 
receive  prompt  and  reliable  feedback  with  respect  to 
their inquiries.
in  Armenia 
institutions 
We believe that the measures targeting return and 
reintegration  carried  out  by  various  countries  would 
have been more effective if the international community 
had taken a more active role in various matters, such as 
the implementation of return projects aimed at highly 
qualified  specialists  residing  outside  the  country  of 
origin, the creation of conditions for directing migrant 
remittances  to  sectors  of  the  economy  and  the  broad 
application of circular migration schemes.
Armenia  welcomes  the  draft  declaration  that  has 
been  adopted  and  strongly  believes  that  the  Dialogue 
will  do  much  to  support  further  implementation  of 
the  goals  involving  migration  and  development  at  the 
national, regional and international levels and will help 
to set the stage for the post-2015 development agenda 
with a focus on the issue.
Mr. Carrillo (Panama) (spoke in Spanish): At the 
outset, we express our condolences over the unfortunate 
events  in  Lampedusa,  Italy.  I  also  extend  to  the 
Assembly the warmest greetings of the Government of 
the Republic of Panama, in particular of the President 
of the Republic, Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, and of the 
Panamanian delegation and myself.
the  Assembly 
With  respect  to  the  issues  of  migration  and 
I  am 
development  before 
pleased  to  report  to  those  present  that  my  country  is 
dealing  with  those  issues.  The  document  on  the  topic 
(A/68/190)  puts  the  number  of  migrants  worldwide 
at  232  million  —  hence  the  necessity  of  formulating 
policies to appropriately manage migration.
today, 
The  National  Migration  Service  and  the  Ministry 
of Labour have, in recent years, issued executive orders 
to amend, extend and repeal provisions in order to bring 
procedures for the issuance of new visas for migrants 
and work permits into line with international norms.
Panama  has  introduced  visas  and  work  permits 
based  on  a  humanistic  approach,  which  we  consider 
important.  For  example,  family  reunification  is  now 
recognized  as  a  basis  for  the  admission  of  foreigners 
with Panamanian children. Permanent residency status 
has  been  granted  to  many  foreigners  who  were  not 
13-49793
21/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
previously so entitled. Transient and temporary workers 
are now issued visas for one year — double the prior 
six-month period — and such visas can be extended for 
a further five years.
Furthermore,  a  special  visa  and  work  permit  has 
been  created  for  professionals  who  wish  to  reside 
permanently in the Republic of Panama and contribute 
their knowledge and experience to further the country’s 
economic, cultural and social development.
I  wish  also 
to  draw  attention 
to  Panama’s 
administrative  efforts  to  support  the  international 
community,  at  a  time  when  some  economies  are 
experiencing 
labour  pressures.  Accordingly,  our 
Government  has  not  only  extended  the  range  of 
available  visas  and  work  permits  but  also  called  for 
the  establishment  of  special  procedures  to  regularize 
migration  status  by  addressing  fundamental  issues  of 
those foreigners who are not eligible for any migration 
status under the country’s current migration legislation.
Migration campaigns, of which 12 have been held 
since they were launched in 2010, have made it possible 
for  over  35,000  foreigners,  of  80  nationalities,  whose 
migration status was irregular to be granted temporary 
residence for two years and a work permit for the same 
amount of time. For those who sign up for it the second 
time,  the  provisional  residence  permit  can  also  be 
extended for ten more years.
I  am  happy  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  at  this 
moment, we are holding the twelfth extraordinary day 
for legalizing migrants, what we have called “Panama, 
the  melting  pot”.  We  hope  to  grant  10,000  additional 
temporary  visas  to  undocumented  migrants.  It  is  also 
very  important  to  emphasize  that  giving  immigrants 
the opportunity to obtain legal status and work permits 
not  only  benefits  our  country  in  terms  of  security 
and  the  economy,  but  migrants  themselves  are  then 
incorporated  into  the  social  security,  banking  and 
labour systems, preventing them from falling victim to 
exploitation  and  allowing  them  to  offer  their  families 
a  decent  standard  of  living.  I  am  sure  that  with  the 
participation  of  everyone  here  today,  we  will  manage 
to have a positive exchange of ideas and good practices, 
which  will  benefit  the  international  community  and 
improve the quality of life of our brothers and sisters.
As  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Panama, 
Ricardo Martinelli, said in a statement he gave at the 
General Assembly:
sustained  high 
“We  leave  behind  a  legacy  of  social  and  political 
stability, 
economic  growth 
throughout the Latin American region, and we have 
helped to promote and build the common welfare of 
the Panamanian nation” (A/68/PV.8, p. 6).
Mr. Pérez Walker (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): The 
initiative  represented  by  this  Dialogue  is  becoming 
increasingly  pressing,  given  the  growing  levels  of 
international  migration,  and  addressing  the  topic  in  a 
multilateral  forum  enables  us  to  adopt  decisions  that 
reflect the global character of migration in a consistent 
and coordinated manner. That is why I am pleased that 
the United Nations, a good example of multilateralism, 
is  the  forum  for  these  deliberations  over  the  mobility 
of  people  and 
that  has 
been  expressed  repeatedly  by  the  South  American 
Conference  on  Migration.  The  United  Nations  is 
the  appropriate  place  to  make  any  decisions  about 
addressing international migration.
their  rights,  something 
specializing 
Furthermore,  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  (IOM),  deserves  special  mention.  It  has 
played an important role, both as an intergovernmental 
organization 
in  migration  and  by 
helping  prepare  this  second  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. The IOM has 
also been involved in the South American Conference 
on Migration. In that regard, we request the Secretary-
General to set up a working group of no more than nine 
countries,  so  as  to  speed  up  the  process  and  make  it 
more viable, in order to analyse and come up with new 
mechanisms  to  address  the  scope  and  challenges  of 
migration,  thereby  improving  the  interaction  between 
the United Nations and the IOM.
In  the  past  20  years,  the  migration  landscape  has 
changed,  both  globally  and  regionally.  South-North 
migration  is  no  longer  the  dominant  pattern,  and 
trends  that  were  emerging  during  the  course  of  2006 
have  increased  and  strengthened.  The  expansion  of 
South-South  migration  and  North-South  migration 
now  reflects  the  new  face  of  international  migration. 
In that context, Chile, as a middle-income country with 
a per capita gross national product of around $16,000, 
has become an emerging magnet for migrants in recent 
years.  It  went  from  being  a  country  of  origin  to  one 
that  meets  the  dual  nature  of  a  country  of  origin  and 
destination for migrants.
Since 2006 and in relation to that recent evolution, 
Chile has sought to address those challenges and take 
22/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
advantage  of  the  opportunities  offered  by  migration, 
incorporating migration issues and the needs of migrants 
into  the  Government’s  public  agenda.  The  basis  for 
addressing international migration in our country lies 
in  an  undiminished  respect  for  the  human  rights  of 
migrants and their families, as exemplified by Chile’s 
ratification  of  the  main  international  instruments  on 
migration, which include the International Convention 
on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers 
and  Members  of  Their  Families,  as  well  as  the 
Smuggling  of  Migrants  Protocol.  Chile  has  therefore 
promoted  efforts  to  manage  migration,  seeking  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  international  migration 
through  a  multisectoral  institutional  administrative 
structure, such as a council for migration policy and an 
interministerial committee on the Chilean community 
abroad.
Meanwhile, in order to promote the principle of legal 
residency,  which  ensures  that  migrants  can  exercise 
their  full  human  rights  within  their  host  community, 
Chile  has  implemented  procedures  to  make  migrants 
legal through legal initiatives aimed at modernizing the 
country’s immigration laws. That is based on the belief 
that a status of residency that has been regularized and 
is in accordance with the law would in turn ensure the 
integrity of migrants and the social and labour rights of 
Chilean nationals.
In terms of applying the principles of human rights 
and  governance  at  the  national  level,  Chile  has  been 
updating  the  normative  framework  on  migration  with 
the enactment of a law on the protection of refugees and 
a law on human trafficking, especially of women. Chile 
hopes  that  that  will  lead  to  a  more  cohesive  society. 
Furthermore, we are currently discussing in Congress 
the  new  bill  on  migration  and  immigration,  which 
seeks,  by  creating  a  council  on  migration  policy  and 
a  migration  division,  to  update  the  legal  framework, 
adapting it to the changing needs of the country and to 
the requirements of the migration process.
Foreigners  who,  for  a  number  of  reasons,  have 
decided to settle in Chile must be able to rest assured 
that  their  nationality  will  not  be  detrimental  to  their 
status. In that regard, compared to current regulations, 
the bill is a step forward, in that it underscores explicitly 
the  terms  and  conditions  of  equality  relating  to  the 
rights of migrants in general, listing the privileges that 
are appropriate and describing the minimum amount of 
protection that can be guaranteed for those who remain 
in the country without any legal status.
On a global scale, Chile has promoted the process 
that  was  guided  by  the  High-level  Dialogue  in  2006, 
actively participating in meetings of the Global Forum 
on  Migration  and  Development.  In  that  same  vein, 
Chile  also  chaired  a  high-level  dialogue  between  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC) and the European Union (EU) on migration, 
seeking to build a space for dialogue and joint work on 
the challenges of migration between the two regions.
To  acknowledge  the  joint  work  done  by  the  two 
regions and bearing in mind the importance of updated 
data  and  objective 
international 
migration,  Chile  has  developed  the  first  CELAC-EU 
statistical digest on migration. Once again, the IOM can 
be given credit for that work, as well as the Economic 
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean.
information  on 
Finally,  at  the  regional  level,  Chile  chaired  the 
recent  South  American  Conference  on  Migration  and 
has  hosted  meetings  and  consultation  processes  on 
the  South  American  region.  Since  the  last  meeting  in 
2012,  Chile  has  helped  define  a  common  position  for 
the South American region in the lead-up to the second 
High-level Dialogue.
The  result  of  those  efforts  is  embodied  in  the 
Buenos Aires Declaration, which presents the position 
of the South American countries in terms of addressing 
and monitoring migration at the global level. Needless 
to  say,  in  terms  of  monitoring,  Chile  has  promoted 
the  drafting  and  subsequent  ratification  of  a  global 
convention  on  international  migration  that  seeks  to 
shape a global consensus with minimum standards on 
migration and its global governance.
Mr. Lutenco (Republic of Moldova): Let me first 
express condolences to the families of those who lost 
their lives on the way to Lampedusa. Moldova knows 
very well the tragedy of families and human lives that 
were destroyed by migration.
At the outset, I would like to express appreciation 
for the fact that the United Nations attaches such great 
attention  to  the  issue  of  migration.  That  shows  the 
determination of Member States to cope with it in the 
best possible way, through partnership and dialogue.
Like  other  countries,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
has  grown  aware  of  the  important  opportunities  that 
migration brings but has also learned to react wisely to 
the challenges it poses. In the light of the very complex 
impacts on Moldova, a composite response mechanism 
became  necessary  with  an  extended  partnership  base 
13-49793
23/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
to  address  the  international  core  of  the  migration 
processes.  That  motivated  us  to  be  the  pilot  country 
in  implementing  the  European  Union  (EU)-Moldova 
mobility  partnership  and  to  actively  participate  in 
the  work  of  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development.  In  that  context,  the  partnership  proved 
to  be  the  key  element  for  strengthening  sustainable 
development  and  consolidating  the  efforts  of  all  the 
actors — a dimension that should be further enhanced 
at the regional and global levels.
planning  has  become  an  important  field  of  activity 
for  us.  We  have  adopted  systemic  changes  with  long-
lasting  effects  and  a  whole-Government  approach. 
Accordingly,  in  all  the  ministries  and  State  agencies, 
a  deputy  minister  is  responsible  for  migration  and 
diaspora  affairs.  The  migration  and  diaspora  impact 
has been introduced ex ante into all new public policies 
in order to estimate the potential impact of migration 
on  our  citizens  abroad,  and  special  instruments  have 
been devised to create a migration impact checklist.
The 
about 
experience  of 
five  years  of 
implementation  of  the  mobility  partnership —  during 
which  89  projects  and  initiatives  have  been  or  are 
currently  under  implementation  —  has  strengthened 
our cooperation and relationship of trust with the EU 
and  EU  member  States  and  has  had  a  direct  positive 
impact on prospective migrants, current migrants and 
returnees.
We  are  ready  to  continue  and  to  deepen  our 
cooperation  with  the  EU  and  to  share  our  experience 
with anyone who is interested. Moreover, the evaluation 
of  our  work  is  also  available.  The  evidence-based 
migration  policymaking  is  crucial  for  the  State  and 
individuals.  Moldova  recently  completed  its  first 
extended  migration  profile,  incorporating  it  into  the 
internal  statistical  monitoring  system,  where,  by 
conducting periodic household surveys and cooperating 
closely  with  destination  countries,  we  are  able  to 
better  monitor  and  manage  migration  flows.  Shortly, 
the  diaspora  profiles  of  main  destination  countries 
for  migration  from  Moldova  will  be  available  for  a 
wide  range  of  uses,  from  better  assisting  migrants  in 
vulnerable  situations  to  better  attracting  and  guiding 
investment.
It is our strong belief that improved data exchange, 
first of all between countries of origin and destination, 
could  be  of  significance  in  recording  the  migration 
experiences of specific individuals. The representative 
of  the  Russian  Federation  mentioned  in  his  statement 
earlier today (see A/68/PV.25) that the authorities know 
by  name  all  migrants  who  have  broken  Russian  law. 
Having  access  to  that  type  of  information  would,  for 
example,  allow  Moldova  to  better  inform  its  citizens 
and  provide  the  necessary  legal  assistance  that  will 
be  beneficial  to  the  two  States,  but  most  of  all  to  the 
individuals concerned.
Certainly  migration 
is  a  high  priority  on 
  agenda  of  my  country.  Thus, 
the  development 
mainstreaming migration and development in national 
is 
to 
fundamental 
Regional  cooperation 
the 
management  of  migration.  One  of  our  Government’s 
priorities  is  the  establishment  of  bilateral  agreements 
and a cooperation framework at the regional level. The 
aim  of  those  agreements  with  neighbouring  countries 
is  to  reinforce  measures  for  social  protection,  mutual 
humanitarian  assistance,  employment,  respect  for 
human  rights  of  migrants  and  more.  The  Republic  of 
Moldova  has  established  more  than  20  such  bilateral 
agreements. It is committed to further advancing that 
practice.
The  Moldovan  Government 
the 
importance of migration in the post-2015 development 
agenda and considers that further steps should be taken 
to  diminish  the  negative  effects  of  migration  through 
the implementation of more efficient policies.
reaffirms 
Dialogue  has  proved  to  be  a  useful  instrument  to 
help achieving those goals, and we hope that it will be 
diversified and enhanced in future.
Mr. Wiredu (Ghana): Let me first express my deep 
gratitude on behalf of the Government of Ghana to the 
General Assembly for organizing the second High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
Assembly.
The issues that are engaging our attention during 
the  Dialogue  are  of  relevance  to  global  and  national 
development,  whether  they  have  to  do  with  national 
planning,  human  rights  or  policy  decision-making, 
among  other  matters.  History  has  fine  examples 
of  the  immense  contributions  of  migrants  to  the 
transformational  development,  peace  and  security 
of  great  nations.  It  is  on  account  of  the  significance 
of  migration  to  global  and  national  development 
that  Ghana  actively  participated  in  the  first  General 
Assembly  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International 
Migration and Development and is also participating in 
today’s dialogue. The objectives and expected outcomes 
24/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
of the Dialogue are, in our assessment, of relevance in 
optimizing  the  development  gains  to  be  derived  from 
migration, while minimizing the negative impacts.
There  are  a  number  of  possible  engagements  on 
the  international  scene,  such  as  promoting  circular 
migration  and  visa  facilitation  to  optimize  the  gains 
of  migration,  as  well  as  readmission  agreements  and 
voluntary  repatriation  packages  to  reduce  the  pain  of 
reintegration. Circular migration has increasingly been 
heralded  by  policymakers  as  a  solution  to  transform 
international  migration  into  a  win-win-win  situation, 
where  a  nation  can  successfully  meet  its  labour 
market  needs,  while  also  increasing  benefits  through 
remittances  and  know-how.  Migrants  themselves  can 
raise  their  standard  of  living  without  leaving  their 
families on a permanent basis.
However,  some  of  the  terms  of  such  agreements 
make  it  difficult  for  developing  countries  to  take 
advantage  of  circular  migration.  Ghana  is  both  a 
destination  and  an  origin  country  for  international 
migration,  with  an  estimated  3  million  Ghanaians  in 
the diaspora. In turn, the migrant populations include a 
significant number of citizens and economic migrants 
belonging  to  members  of  the  Economic  Community 
of  West  African  States,  this  being  a  result  in  part  of 
civil  wars  and  several  political  security  post-conflict 
situations,  as  experienced  by  Ghana’s  immediate 
neighbouring  States,  including  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Mali and the Niger.
Ghana reaffirmed its commitment to the governance 
of 
international  migration  when 
the  Government 
decided to subscribe to the International Convention on 
the Protection of All Migrant Workers and Members of 
Their Families, aimed, inter alia, at protecting the right 
of migrant workers to dignity and the due processes of 
law. Ghana has also recently ratified the United Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and its supplemental Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children.
As a country, Ghana remains focused on promoting 
and  protecting  the  interests  and  welfare  of  our 
compatriots  abroad  through  our  diplomatic  missions 
and  consulates.  To  help  our  nationals  to  be  able  to 
contribute  immensely  to  the  national  development 
agenda, in August 2012 Ghana established a Diaspora 
Support  Unit,  with  technical  assistance  from  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration  (IOM),  as 
a  cross-cutting  multistakeholder  unit  coordinated 
by  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Integration 
to  mainstream  the  Ghanian  diaspora  in  national 
development. In collaboration with the relevant public-
sector  institutions,  the  Diaspora  Support  Unit  aims 
at  providing,  through  its  website  and  social  media 
platforms, a one-stop shop to facilitate the dissemination 
of 
information,  applications  for  dual  citizenship, 
remittance transfers, investments, trade, registration of 
companies, labour mobility and reintegration.
Ghana 
recognizes 
the  global  character  of 
international  migration  and  affirms  that  international 
migration is a phenomenon growing in both scope and 
diversity.  Ghana,  for  its  part,  believes  international 
migration could be a positive force for development, in 
both  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of  destination, 
provided that it is supported by the right set of policies. 
Under  the  Ghana  shared  growth  and  development 
agenda  for  2010  to  2013,  efforts  have  been  made  to 
establish  a  comprehensive  institutional  framework 
for  the  management  of  migration, 
to  harmonize 
registration, to develop a comprehensive database, and 
to build the human and technical capacity of migration 
institutions for better migration management.
In pursuit of those ideas, the Migration Unit of the 
Ministy of the Interior is coordinating efforts to bring 
the  policymaking  process  to  its  logical  conclusion.  A 
draft  national  migration  policy  is  before  the  Cabinet 
of  Ghana  for  consideration  and,  if  approved,  to  be 
submitted  to  Parliament  for  the  necessary  legislative 
backing.  That  draft  policy  envisages,  among  other 
things,  the  establishment  of  a  national  migration 
commission  to  be  responsible  for  both  internal  and 
external migration.
With  regard  to  policy  initiatives  and  measures,  it 
is  important  to  state  that  Ghana’s  national  population 
policy contains significant elements on migration. The 
2010 national population census captured relevant issues 
on migration to aid policy formulation. It is noteworthy 
that  the  Ghana  immigration  service  has  adopted  a 
long-term  strategy  plan  for  the  implementation  of  its 
institutional mandates. In that connection, the service 
has  established  the  Ghana  Migration  Management 
Bureau  with  three  divisions.  The  first  focuses  on 
combating  the  trafficking  and  smuggling  of  persons 
through the adoption of an operational plan to ensure 
international 
Ghana’s  compliance  with  minimum 
standards.  Secondly, 
the  Migration 
Information 
Bureau is to cap irregular migration and promote legal 
migration 
information-gathering,  creating 
through 
13-49793
25/27
A/68/PV.26 
03/10/2013
public  awareness  and  educating  on  the  dangers  of 
illegal  migration  and  on  opportunities  for 
legal 
migration. The third division is a refugee section that 
collaborates with the Ghana Refugee Board, the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
and the IOM to provide protection for refugees and the 
implementation of the Government secession policy on 
the local reintegration policy of refugees.
As a developing country, Ghana concurs with the 
community of nations on concerns about the increase 
in  illegal  migration  and  the  exploitation  and  abuse  of 
migrants in irregular situations. In recent times, Ghana 
has  recorded  several  cases  of  abuse  and  violations  of 
the human rights of Ghanians who are recruited to some 
Arab Gulf countries to work as domestic servants. We 
urge the international community to continue its efforts 
in combating trafficking in persons and the smuggling 
of  migrants,  especially  women  and  children,  at  the 
national,  bilateral,  regional  and  global  levels.  It  is  of 
interest to mention that in July 2012 the Parliament of 
Ghana  enacted  legislation  that  criminalizes  migrant 
smuggling, which grossly dehumanizes the dignity of 
the individual.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  that  Ghana  is 
willing  and  ready  to  partner  with  the  United  Nations 
and other organizations such as the IOM and the Global 
Migration  Group  to  continue  addressing  international 
migration and development issues.
Before  I  resume  my  seat,  I  wish  to  take  the 
opportunity  to  say  that  Ghana  joins  countries  across 
the globe in conveying its deepest condolences to the 
families of those lost in the tragedy in the Mediterranean 
Sea this morning. May the souls of the perished rest in 
peace.
Mr.  Wijeratne 
(Sri  Lanka):  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier 
by  the  Minister  of  Defence,  National  Security  and 
Immigration  of  the  Republic  of  Fiji  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China (see A/68/PV.25)
The  adoption  of  the  Declaration  (resolution  68/4) 
this  morning  is  a  significant  step  in  mainstreaming 
migration and development in the global development 
agenda.  I,  too,  congratulate  the  delegation  of  Mexico 
for  conducting  consultations  on  the  draft  declaration, 
and  I  acknowledge  the  contribution  of  all  States  to 
that  forward-looking  document.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/68/190)  on  the  theme  contains 
valuable  information  for  all  stakeholders  and  outlines 
The  High-level  Dialogue 
the preparedness of the United Nations system to face 
current and future challenges associated with migration 
and to optimize development benefits.
on 
International 
Migration  and  Development  is  a  very  important 
multilateral  process  on  migration.  It  is  noteworthy 
that the first High-level Dialogue, in 2006, gave birth 
to  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development, 
which has now become a very useful forum in which 
to discuss the important issues pertaining to migration 
and development.
The  subject  is  very  important  to  my  country.  Sri 
Lanka  ratified  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members  of  Their  Families  in  1996.  Sri  Lanka  was 
elected  to  the  14-member  Committee  on  Migrant 
Workers in 2009 and again in 2013.
For  Sri  Lanka,  circular  employment  migration 
has  become  a  very  crucial  phenomenon.  Out  of  a 
total population of 20.3 million citizens, an estimated 
1.7 million are employed overseas as contract workers. 
This is 21 per cent of the country’s economically active 
labour force. Moreover, Sri Lankans employed abroad 
remitted  a  total  of  $6.1  billion  during  2012,  which 
amounted to 35 per cent of the total foreign exchange 
earnings.  Needless  to  say,  at  this  present  time,  that 
is  a  very  important  source  of  foreign  income  for  the 
country. A very important facet of this migration is that 
the earnings from employment abroad flowed into the 
remotest areas of Sri Lanka. In many instances those 
earnings have become more effective than development 
aid at alleviating poverty.
In  Sri  Lanka,  49  per  cent  of  employed  migrants 
are female. The protection of female migrant workers 
and  their  children  left  behind  is  at  the  core  of  the 
Government’s policy framework on migration. In that 
connection, the Government recently decided to obtain 
a  family  background  report  on  all  migrant  mothers 
prior to their departure. This is to ensure that a stable 
arrangement  is  in  place  for  the  protection  and  well-
being  of  the  children  they  leave  behind.  Sri  Lanka 
has  also  established  an  association  with  an  island-
wide  network  called  Rata  Viruwo,  meaning  “heroes 
overseas”, with the next of kin of every migrant worker 
being a member, to look into the welfare needs of the 
families left behind.
Plans  are  now  under  way  to  increase  the  skilled 
labour force for the overseas job market in Sri Lanka. 
26/27 
13-49793
03/10/2013 
A/68/PV.26
Many Government-sponsored initiatives aim to develop 
the  skills  of  women  and  youth  who  are  potential 
migrants to suit overseas markets.
As  the  host  country  of  the  World  Conference  on 
Youth  in  2014,  Sri  Lanka  welcomes  the  theme  of 
International  Youth  Day  2013:  “Youth  Migration: 
Moving  Development  Forward”.  In  addition  to  the 
common  development  challenges  facing  youth  all 
over  the  world,  especially  those  living  in  developing 
countries, we recognize that migrant youth have specific 
issues. The Conference on Youth will focus on how to 
mainstream  the  youth  perspective  in  internationally 
agreed development goals. We welcome the engagement 
of stakeholders to reiterate the importance of migration 
and development.
We  are  working  closely  with  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  (IOM)  and  other  United 
Nations  agencies  on  projects  related  to  migrants.  The 
IOM provides technical assistance to train officials in 
charge of immigration, border security and the welfare 
of migrants. The IOM also assisted us in establishing 
the  National  Centre  for  Migration  Statistics  in  the 
Department of Census and Statistics in 2008. Similarly, 
the ILO helped us develop the national labour migration 
policy in 2008, for the first time in South Asia.
On  3  and  4  December  2013,  Sri  Lanka  will  host 
a  regional  dialogue  in  collaboration  with  UN  Women 
to develop a standard employment contract for female 
migrant domestic workers. Senior officials from labour-
sending  countries  in  Asia  and  receiving  countries 
in  the  Middle  East  will  attend  this  dialogue  with  the 
expectation of reaching a consensus.
Sri Lanka reiterates its commitment to advancing 
all  relevant  international  conventions  on  migration. 
However,  we  strongly  believe  in  the  need  for  a  more 
effective  mechanism  to  monitor  the  implementation 
of  those  conventions  by  both  countries  of  origin 
and  destination  countries.  As  a  member  of  the  Open 
Working  Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
Sri Lanka will contribute to the Group’s work to duly 
recognize migration as one of the priority areas of the 
post-2015 global development agenda.
We look forward to making the living and working 
conditions of all migrants safe and decent.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
13-49793
27/27
