United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
5th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 24 September 2013, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.5
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 111
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/68/1)
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
taken  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on  20  September 
2013, the General Assembly will hear a presentation by 
the Secretary-General of his annual report on the work 
of the Organization, under agenda item 111. I give the 
floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General:  Each  year  at  this  time, 
we come together not to preserve the status quo but to 
drive  our  world  forward.  This  is  an  era  of  wondrous 
opportunity. Ours is the first generation that can wipe 
poverty  from  the  face  of  the  Earth,  yet  the  pressures 
on people and the planet are building — youth without 
jobs, a warming climate, unresolved conflicts. Events 
are  moving  with  the  twenty-first  century  at  a  speed 
often outpacing the instituitions and systems designed 
for another age. In streets and squares across the world, 
people  are  pressing  those  in  power.  They  want  world 
leaders to listen. They want to know that we are doing 
all it takes to secure a life of dignity for all. 
For more than a decade, the end of 2015 has been 
our long horizon. What once seemed a distant moment 
is now just around the corner. The year 2015 is the year 
by which we have pledged to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  is  the  year  in  which 
we  will  adopt  a  new  development  agenda.  And  it  is 
the year the Assembly has agreed to complete a global 
agreement  on  climate  change.  The  year  2015  is  an 
historic  opportunity.  The  MDGs  have  captured  the 
imagination, generated remarkable gains and beat back 
doubts about development itself. 
Yet on some Goals, we are lagging badly. Inequality 
is  growing.  Too  many  people  face  exploitation,  from 
fields  to  the  factory  floor.  While  going  further,  a 
new  development  agenda  must  be  as  inspiring  as  the 
MDGs.  It  must  be  universal,  with  ending  poverty  as 
its  top  priority,  sustainable  development  at  its  core, 
and governance as its glue. It must find expression in a 
single set of goals. There should be no hierarchy among 
the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development,  no 
deferring  the  environment  or  social  justice  for  later, 
once economic growth is ensured. 
The  empowerment  and  rights  of  women  must 
be  at  the  heart  of  everything  we  do.  The  equation  is 
simple: when girls are healthy and in school, when legal 
frameworks and financial access support women,when 
women’s lives are free of violence and discrimination, 
nations thrive. I add my voice to those of leaders who 
will gather this afternoon to adopt a strong declaration 
on  sexual  violence  in  conflict.  Let  the  twenty-first 
century be the century of women.
(spoke in French)
Success  requires  increased  efforts  on  the  part  of 
the  private  sector.  Businesses  must  have  elbow  room 
to be able to do what they do best  — create jobs and 
innovate. But they must be ethical and responsible in 
conducting  their  activities,  doing  everything  possible 
to protect the environment.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48449 (E)
*1348449*
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
At  the  Global  Compact  Leaders  Summit  held 
last  week,  thousands  of  business  leaders  promised  to 
take additional measures so that their goals are better 
aligned  with  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
United Nations must devote more means to working not 
just  with  the  world  of  business  and  finance,  but  also 
with civil society and philanthropic organizations.
The effects of climate change threaten everything 
that  development  has  accomplished.  The  human  and 
economic  consequences,  which  are  becoming  more 
substantial,  affect  everybody.  The  poorest  and  the 
most  vulnerable,  who  are  the  first  to  suffer  and  pay 
the  highest  price,  demand  greater  climate  justice. 
The  message  from  the  planet  and  from  scientists  is 
very  clear,  as  we  will  see  again  this  week  when  the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change publishes 
its most recent assessment. 
These  dangers  are  accompanied  by  opportunities 
to be grasped: changing the way we function, our urban 
planning, our means of transportation and the way in 
which  our  homes  and  our  factories  are  supplied  with 
energy. The path of low carbon emissions is opening up 
before us — a path that can lead to the creation of jobs 
and to an improvement in public health, while allowing 
us all to protect the environment. 
(spoke in English) 
To help set us on this course, I invite all here to a 
climate summit meeting one year from now, September 
next year, here at the United Nations. I challenge you to 
bring  bold  pledges  to  the  summit.  Innovate,  scale  up, 
cooperate and deliver concrete action that will close the 
emission gap and put us on track for an ambitious legal 
agreement  through  the  process  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  Let  us 
seize the 2015 challenge — a final push for the MDGs, 
new directions on energy and climate and an inspiring 
new  development  framework.  We  must  leave  no  one 
behind.
Now let me turn to the biggest peace and security 
crisis  in  the  world  —  the  crisis  in  Syria.  Well  over 
100,000  people  have  been  killed.  Well  over  7  million 
people, a third of the total population, have fled their 
homes.  Families  are  under  siege.  Cities  and  towns  lie 
in rubble. The economy is in ruins. Communities once 
alive with a blend of traditions and faiths have been torn 
apart.  The  region  is  being  dangerously  destabilized. 
We  have  seen  the  worst  chemical  weapons  attack  on 
civilians in a quarter century. A lost generation of young 
people now fills refugee camps. Who among us can say 
that they and their mothers and fathers are wrong to feel 
abandoned by the international community? We face a 
moment of reckoning.
The  Syrian  Government  must  fully  and  quickly 
honour  the  obligations  it  has  assumed  in  acceding  to 
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention.  The  international 
community  must  bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  a  use  that  has 
been  confirmed  unequivocally  by  the  United  Nations 
investigation  mission.  The  international  community 
must  also,  with  equal  determination,  ensure  the 
safeguarding  and  destruction  of  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons stockpiles and programmes. But we can hardly 
be  satisfied  with  destroying  chemical  weapons  while 
the wider war is still destroying all of Syria. The vast 
majority of the killing and atrocities have been carried 
out with conventional weapons.
I appeal to all States to stop fuelling the bloodshed 
and  to  end  the  arms  flows  to  all  the  parties.  I  look 
forward  to  the  imminent  adoption  of  an  enforceable 
and  binding  Security  Council  resolution  on  chemical 
weapons.  That  should  be  followed  immediately  by 
humanitarian  action.  United  Nations  human  rights 
monitors  could  play  a  useful  role  in  reporting  and 
deterring further violations.
their  obligations  under 
I call on the Syrian Government and the opposition 
to  uphold 
international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  They  must  lift 
all  obstacles  to  humanitarian  access  and  end  the 
unconscionable  targeting  of  medical  facilities  and 
personnel.  They  must  release  the  thousands  of  men, 
women  and  children  whose  detention  has  no  basis 
in  international  law.  Full  accountability  for  serious 
international crimes is also vital, either through referral 
to the International Criminal Court or by other means 
consistent with international law.
The  response  to  the  heinous  use  of  chemical 
weapons  has  created  diplomatic  momentum,  the  first 
signs of unity in far too long. Now we must build on that 
to get the parties to the negotiating table. I have been 
consistently saying that military victory is an illusion. 
The only answer is a political settlement. I appeal to the 
Government of Syria and the opposition, and I appeal to 
all those in the General Assembly Hall with influence 
over  them,  to  make  the  Geneva  II  conference  happen 
as soon as possible. It is time to end the killing and to 
reach the peace the Syrian people need and deserve.
2/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
stumbled  or 
transitions  have 
Lifting  our  sights  from  Syria,  we  can  see 
tremendous  stress  and  upheaval  across  the  region. 
Historic 
slowed. 
Springs  of  inspiration  are  giving  way  to  winters  of 
disillusionment. The challenges are immense: building 
democracy and pluralistic dialogue, dousing the flames 
of  sectarianism,  filling  the  security  vacuum  after  the 
iron grip of dictators is gone. But the story is still being 
written. We must do our utmost to help those reforms 
succeed. We must seize potential openings and respond 
to  declarations  of  good  will.  Each  nation  will  chart 
its own course. We cannot be complacent where there 
is  backsliding,  but  must  rather  insist  on  respect  for 
universal values, human rights, tolerance and political 
inclusion.  These  are  the  foundations  of  peace  and 
prosperity.
in  direct  negotiations  and 
I  welcome  the  re-engagement  of  Israelis  and 
Palestinians 
the  bold 
diplomacy  that  made  that  possible.  If  we  are  serious 
about  achieving  a  two-State  solution,  then  we  must 
recognize  that  the  window  is  closing  fast.  I  urge  the 
parties to show leadership and a sense of the long-term 
interests of their peoples and the region. I am going to 
convene the Quartet principals meeting later this week 
in New York to lend our strong support to the ongoing 
Middle East peace process.
(spoke in French)
Beyond  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  I  see 
African  countries  writing  a  new  chapter  in  which 
dynamism  goes  hand-in-hand  with  democracy  and 
economic growth that is both sustained and impressive. 
In  Somalia,  political  progress;  in  Mali,  credible 
elections;  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
more  robust  peacekeeping;  and  for  the  Great  Lakes 
region,  a  new  framework  agreement  —  these  are 
achievements on which we can build.
However, in the Sahel, abject poverty remains and 
instability persists. In the Central African Republic, the 
public order has collapsed. Millions of people have been 
cut off from all assistance and risk becoming victims 
of abuse. Yet, like the humanitarian appeal for Syria, 
our appeal for aid for that country has only generated 
contributions that are desperately insufficient.
In  just  the  past  week,  horrific  attacks  committed 
in  Kenya,  in  Iraq  and  in  Pakistan  again  remind  us  of 
the  amount  of  harm  that  terrorists  can  wreak  and  the 
damage  they  can  cause.  Throughout  the  world,  we 
again  note  that  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
the foundations of stability and coexistence. It is time 
for us to more firmly commit ourselves to international 
justice and the International Criminal Court.
I  would  like  to  launch  a  particular  appeal  on 
behalf of the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of 
Cambodia. They have achieved significant results, but 
they  constantly  face  serious  financial  difficulties  that 
currently threaten to compromise their very existence.
The  failure  of  the  Chambers  would  be  a  tragedy  for 
Cambodians, who have awaited justice for a such a long 
time. I urge the international community to release the 
necessary resources to ensure that all the cases can be 
completed.
(spoke in English) 
The  inability  of  Member  States  and  the  United 
Nations to prevent and put a stop to large-scale human 
rights violations has had disastrous consequences. An 
internal review of the United Nations action at the end 
of  the  war  in  Sri  Lanka  identified  a  systemic  failure. 
Member  States  did  not  provide  the  United  Nations 
system with support to meet the tasks they themselves 
had  set,  and  the  system  itself  unfortunately  did  not 
adapt properly or deliver fully.
In  this  twentieth  anniversary  year  of  the  Vienna 
World Conference on Human Rights, we should renew 
our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  founding 
principles. I intend to do more to help Member States 
reach early consensus to prevent large-scale violations 
and I am implementing recommendations to ensure that 
the United Nations system upholds its responsibilities 
under the Charter.
There  will  be  little  peace  or  enjoyment  of  human 
rights  unless  we  confront  a  world  awash  in  deadly 
weapons.  The  past  year  saw  the  promising  adoption 
of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  finally  regulating  the 
international transfer of conventional weapons.
But  nuclear  disarmament  is  languishing.  Deadly 
weapons 
are  proliferating.  The  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is still not in force. And small 
arms continue to kill and maim. Meanwhile, at a time 
of pressing human need, spending on weapons remains 
absurdly high. Let us get our priorities right and invest 
in  people  instead  of  wasting  billions  of  dollars  on 
deadly weapons. 
The leaders gathered here today are here to serve 
“we the peoples”. They can be the ones presiding over 
an end to poverty, giving voice to the will of the people 
13-48449
3/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
and ushering in an era of sustainable development and 
lasting  peace.  They  can  tackle  the  toughest  problems 
today  and  by  their  foresight  make  a  gift  to  future 
generations.I urge everyone to embrace the global logic 
of our times. With our fates ever more entwined, our 
future must be one of ever-deeper cooperation. In this 
transformed  global  landscape,  let  us  find  new  ways 
of  governing,  partnering  and  problem-solving.  Let  us 
empower  the  United  Nations  to  be  more  than  a  first 
responder or a last resort.
Change is inevitable, but progress is not. Leadership 
makes the difference. Let us take our cue from Nelson 
Mandela — frail today, but forever in our awareness as 
a towering model of integrity and principled action in 
the pursuit of human dignity. The leaders in their home 
countries and we assembled here represent a privileged 
pinnacle. We must prove ourselves fit for purpose. We 
must listen to the just demands of the world’s peoples 
and  hear  the  call  of  history.  We  speak  often  of  hope. 
Our  duty  is  to  turn  hope  into  action,  through  hard 
work,  commitment,  skill  and  integrity.  With  passion, 
but  most  of  all  with  compassion,  we  can  build  the 
future  our  peoples  want  –  and  that  our  world  needs. 
I  thank  everyone  here  for  their  leadership  and  strong 
commitment. Let us build a better world for all; let us 
shape a future where everybody can live harmoniously 
in peace and dignity.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
Agenda item 8
General debate
The  President:  I  will  now  deliver  a  statement  in 
my capacity as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session. 
It  is  my  special  privilege  to  bid  members  of  the 
Assembly a warm welcome at the sixty-eighth session. 
As I do so, I am reminded of the long journey to this 
point in time — a journey that began nearly six decades 
ago in my twin-island nation of Antigua and Barbuda, 
in the Caribbean. There, in a household of seven kids, 
whose  parents  never  had  the  opportunity  to  complete 
high school and could therefore not provide academic 
guidance to their offspring, one child — whose paternal 
grandfather  signed  his  name  with  an  “X”  and  whose 
mother was a descendant of slave plantation owners in 
the sister island of Barbados — was determined to be 
the first in his family to attend university and seek an 
opportunity  to  make  a  difference,  wherever  it  might 
occur..
I  am  the  child  of  those  parents.  And  as  I  had  an 
opportunity to recall just yesterday, at the ceremony for 
the unveiling of the winning design for the permanent 
memorial  to  honour  victims  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade, my ancestral journey began centuries ago, in an 
era  when  unspeakable  cruelty  and  man’s  inhumanity 
to  man  were  in  full  bloom  and  were,  in  many  ways, 
the currency of the day. And while my recent history 
has  been  one  filled  with  tremendous  opportunity  and 
challenges,  it  has,  nevertheless,  been  quite  a  journey. 
I therefore stand before the Assembly, deeply humbled 
and  honoured  to  address  this  gathering  of  nations, 
which is a unique representation and expression of our 
collective thoughts and actions.
We  come  from  nations  big  and  small  —  some 
landlocked  and  others  surrounded  by  seas;  some 
prosperous  and  others  striving  to  develop.  But  we  all 
live in a world where constant change is the norm. In 
fact,  this  session  convenes  in  a  climate  and  at  a  time 
in  history  in  which  the  Organization  is,  itself,  in  the 
process of change. I refer not only to physical change, 
but  to  the  task  of  crafting  a  more  responsive  United 
Nations, with a new strategic thrust, which will shape 
global development beyond 2015.
This  annual  gathering  of  world 
leaders  and 
dignitaries should not be seen as just another September 
routine  or  tradition;  rather,  it  serves  and  should 
serve  another  larger  and  better  purpose  —  that  of 
recommitting ourselves and our countries to the noble 
ideals that lie at the Organization’s core.
As  we  gather  here  again  —  this  being  the  first 
time  for  many  present,  including  my  two  sons  sitting 
at the back — in the slightly more modest surroundings 
that  is  now  our  Hall,  the  world’s  headlines  are  filled 
with  reports  of  war,  imminent  or  impending;  civil 
and  sectarian  bloodshed  and  strife  between  as  well 
as  within  States;  grinding  poverty  and  malnutrition; 
gender violence; adverse effects of climate change and 
loss  of  valuable  biodiversity;  and  struggles  of  men, 
women and the young seeking to live in human dignity 
and peace. Now with clear awareness that the scourge 
of  chemical  warfare  has  been  unleashed  in  Syria,  we 
are, as a community of nations, confronted by an urgent 
need to address that wrong.
Against  that  background,  we  are  assembled  here, 
at this session, amidst circumstances that increasingly 
4/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
cause  many  to  wonder  whether  the  vision  of  our 
founding  fathers,  and  mothers,  as  articulated  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations, is achievable or realistic.
Across this world of ours, we see rising ethnic and 
religious extremism, gender inequities, growing unrest 
and  political  tension,  and  increasing  socioeconomic 
inequalities.  We  see  women  dying  in  childbirth,  girl 
children marrying before the age of 10, and the young 
who dare not dream of a future because they know all 
too well there may never be one.
And yet, we gather here today despite the odds that 
are  against  us,  to  give  human  expression  to  the  hard 
work  it  takes  to  make  multilateralism  work  for  the 
collective benefit of all. Effective multilateralism takes 
dogged determination and a commitment to negotiating 
and working cooperatively, especially if the quest is to 
evolve  towards  a  shared  consensus  that  is  both  broad 
and  lasting.  It  also  requires  frank  and  unvarnished 
scrutiny  of  the  work  of  our  Assembly,  and  it  is  time 
for  us  to  concede  that  our  efforts  at  reforming  and 
revitalizing our Organization need new impetus.
I ask the Assembly to indulge me as someone who 
is at heart an engineer. It is as if, having set out on a 
long journey towards an agreed destination, our vehicle 
has  developed  engine  trouble  that  slows  our  progress 
and  prevents  us  from  making  good  speed  towards 
our  destination.  We  tinker  with  road  maps,  plans  and 
directions without consensus on what needs fixing and 
the best means to fix it. And while we the leaders, as 
drivers  of  the  vehicle,  remain  parked  some  distance 
from our final destination, debating how best to fix the 
engine, our passengers, the citizens of the world whom 
we represent, look on powerless and voiceless, many of 
them dying of hunger and thirst with no access to food 
or clean water.
The question before us then is simple. Will we be 
able to work together and fix our vehicle so that we can 
progress on the journey to effect real and meaningful 
change?
I  must  confess  that  I  see  contained  within  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  a  great  paradox. 
The  holder  of  this  office  is  exposed  to  enormous 
pressures  from  various  sides  on  any  particular  issue 
relevant to the mandate of the United Nations. He or she 
must display endless patience; must not be discouraged 
by  others’  cynicism;  must  manifest  an  unswerving 
dedication to and belief in the principles and purposes 
of the Organization; must be strong enough to overcome 
setbacks;  must  empathize  with  all  Members  and  yet 
be  dispassionate  and  even-handed,  showing  no  fear 
or  favour  to  one  over  the  other;  and  must  endlessly 
improvise as he or she seeks to nudge one side or the 
other,  or  preferably  both,  towards  common  ground. 
And yet, the paradox is that the President of the General 
Assembly is without power to commit Member States 
to  a  particular  course  of  action,  and  must  not  only 
remain neutral but must also be seen as such if she or 
he is to retain any credibility. She or he can do no more 
than  reflect  and  appeal  to  States  to  work  together,  in 
the  hope  that  appropriate  and  requisite  international 
cooperation will be achieved.
Now, having said all of this, I can therefore make 
an immediate appeal to the Member States to recognize 
those  limitations  on  the  presidency  and  show  kind 
consideration  by  working  effectively  towards  our 
shared agenda.
We have been told by our forebears that, when we are 
faced with overwhelming odds, it is not our limitations 
that  define  us;  rather,  it  is  what  we  do  to  overcome 
them. As I said in my June acceptance speech from this 
very  rostrum,  coming  from  a  small  island  developing 
State I take to heart the oft-repeated maxim that no man 
or woman is an island. Given the giant tasks ahead of 
us, we need to rely — indeed, depend — on each other 
if we are to perform effectively on this shared journey.
Therefore,  whenever  we  see  gaps  between  the 
vision of the Charter and the realities around us, let the 
search to bridge them begin with ourselves. Let it begin 
with an examination by each one of us of the attitudes 
that we bring to this very forum. Let us remember that 
no  State  can  abrogate  the  principles  of  the  Charter 
without doing serious harm to the fabric of our shared 
Organization.
As  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  am 
prepared to make contributions of good, sound advice 
and point the Assembly in the direction where I think 
the balance of the interests of the entire international 
community lies. But it is the Member States that must 
do the heavy lifting and commit to working on a shared 
agenda.
On the issue of our shared agenda, I am pleased to 
note  that  recently  there  have  been  some  encouraging 
achievements  that  demonstrate  that  we  know  how  to 
make  the  United  Nations  work  for  us  as  a  collective 
and collaborative Organization. It was little more than 
five months ago, on 2 April, that, for the first time in 
13-48449
5/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
the  history  of  our  Organization,  its  engagement  with 
conventional  weapons  reached  a  conclusion  with  the 
adoption of the Arms Trade Treaty, regulating the illicit 
trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  It  is  expected 
that  this  instrument,  which  has  now  been  signed  by 
83  States  and  ratified  by  four,  will  help  significantly 
reduce  the  murderous  and  destabilizing  effects  of  the 
proliferation of such weapons.
Also, I recall with immense satisfaction that in 2000 
this  very  body  adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and,  subsequently,  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  united  the  international 
community  around  an  ambitious  series  of  goals  for 
development.  More  recently,  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Rio,  we 
resolved to craft a post-2015 development agenda. 
Defining  our  post-2015  development  agenda  is 
crucial  to  the  overall  work  and  longer  term  efficacy 
of the United Nations, and that is why I have selected 
as the theme this session, “The post-2015 development 
agenda:  setting  the  stage”.  Under  this  rubric  and  to 
assist  Member  States  in  defining  the  outlines  of  this 
new  agenda,  I  have  identified  three  high-level  events 
and three thematic debates, which will be held in the 
course of the present session. The details of these are 
already  well  known  and  have  been  previously  shared 
with all Members.
The new development agenda is expected to have 
poverty eradication as its central and overarching goal, 
and to address the inseparable link between economic 
growth, equity and social inclusion, and environmental 
sustainability.  The  post-2015  development  agenda  is 
envisaged  as  the  most  far-reaching  endeavour  ever 
undertaken  by  our  Organization  in  its  entire  history. 
Embracing  States  in  all  aspects  of  the  sustainable 
development spectrum, it will completely redefine the 
concept  of  development  as  traditionally  understood, 
rooting  it  in  partnership,  cooperation,  equity  —  both 
social  and  generational  —  peace,  good  governance 
and  economic  growth  based  on  environmental 
sustainability.
As we embark on the sixty-eighth session, on the 
one hand, we urgently need tangible results and action 
by the Assembly; on the other hand, we are faced with 
high  levels  of  pessimism  and  cynicism  that  we  will 
not  be  up  to  the  task  and  that  we  lack  the  effort  and 
discipline to effectively address the world’s needs.
Let us prove the naysayers wrong. Let us put our 
shoulders to the plough and work with one another in 
a spirit of collaboration. Let us focus on the business 
ahead, cognizant of the sacred trust that brings us here, 
committed  to  the  peoples  we  serve,  looking  beyond 
individual and narrow interests and with the resolve to 
conclude the work that brought us here. 
Let us not forget that while we sit in this gathering, 
there are millions who go to sleep in the dark, hungry 
and  insecure,  fearful  of  what  another  tomorrow  may 
bring. Let us not be distracted or disturbed by pessimism 
and polemics. Indeed, I invite all of us to look around 
and  see  in  our  presence  here  a  reaffirmation  of  our 
belief in the principles of the Charter and in the value of 
international cooperation for the common good. Let us 
not forget the fundamental belief that the ties that bind 
us are stronger and more enduring than the differences 
that threaten to keep us apart.
We are assembled here from different States, each 
with its own particular set of strengths, challenges and 
needs, and from different regions, cultures and faiths, 
all sharing the single purpose of helping to ensure that 
the  General  Assembly  will  take  us  further  along  the 
road  to  creating  the  kind  of  world  envisioned  in  our 
Charter — a world of security, peace, justice, adherence 
to the rule of law, respect for the planet, tolerance, equal 
rights  for  all,  social  progress  and  faith  in  the  dignity 
and worth of the human person. And, recognizing how 
far  we  have  come,  conceding  how  far  there  is  yet  to 
go, let us recommit to the path of protecting our planet 
and ensuring peace, prosperity and dignity for all who 
inhabit it.
Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than 15 minutes — myself and the Secretary-General 
excluded, of course — to enable all the speakers to be 
heard at a given meeting. Within that time frame, I would 
like to appeal to speakers to deliver their statements at a 
normal speed so that interpretation into the six official 
United Nations languages may be provided properly.
I would also like to draw attention to the decision 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  previous  sessions 
that  the  practice  of  expressing  congratulations  inside 
the  Assembly  Hall  after  a  speech  has  been  delivered 
is  strongly  discouraged.  In  that  connection,  after 
delivering their statements, speakers are invited to exit 
6/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
the  Hall  through  Room  GA-200,  located  behind  the 
podium, before returning to their seats.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the sixty-eighth session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Finally,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to the fact that during the general 
debate, official photos of all speakers are taken by the 
Department of Public Information. Members interested 
in obtaining those photos are requested to contact the 
Photo Library of the United Nations.
Address by Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to  invite  her  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Rousseff  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  first  like  to 
briefly express my pleasure at seeing the representative 
of Antigua and Barbuda, a country that is part of the 
Caribbean  and  is  very  dear  to  Brazil  and  our  region, 
at  the  helm  of  the  proceedings  of  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  You  can  count  on  the  permanent 
support of my Government, Sir.
Before  I  begin  my  statement,  I  would  also  like 
to  voice  the  Brazilian  Government’s  and  people’s 
repudiation of the recent terrorist attack in Nairobi, and 
to convey our condolences to and express our solidarity 
with the families of the victims and the people and the 
Government of Kenya. Wherever terrorism may occur 
and wherever it originates, we will always condemn it 
unequivocally  and  resolve  firmly  to  deal  with  it.  We 
will never compromise with barbarity.
I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to 
an  exceedingly  important  and  serious  matter.  Recent 
revelations concerning the activities of a global network 
of electronic espionage have provoked indignation and 
disgust  in  public  opinion  worldwide.  For  Brazil  the 
situation is particularly serious, since we have been a 
specific target of that intrusion. Citizens’ personal data 
has  been  indiscriminately  targeted  and  intercepted. 
Business information, often of major economic and even 
strategic value, has been a focus of espionage activity. 
And communications of Brazilian diplomatic missions, 
including our Permanent Mission to the United Nations 
and the Office of the President of the Republic itself, 
have been subject to interception.
Such  meddling  in  the  lives  and  affairs  of  other 
countries is a breach of international law and as such 
is  an  affront  to  the  principles  that  should  govern 
relations between them, and between friendly nations 
in  particular.  A  nation  can  never  promote  its  own 
sovereignty in a way that damages the sovereignty of 
another. The right of one country’s citizens to security 
can  never  be  ensured  by  violating  the  fundamental 
human  and  civil  rights  of  those  of  another.  It  is  even 
worse when private companies support such espionage 
activity.  The  argument  that  the  illegal  interception  of 
information  and  data  is  allegedly  intended  to  protect 
against terrorism is untenable.
Brazil  knows  how  to  protect  itself.  We  repudiate 
and fight terrorist groups; we do not give them shelter. 
We are a democratic country surrounded by democratic, 
peaceful  countries  that  respect  international  law.  We 
have lived in peace with our neighbours for more than 
140  years.  Like  many  other  Latin  Americans,  I  have 
fought arbitrary behaviour and censorship myself and 
therefore  cannot  possibly  fail  to  uncompromisingly 
defend individuals’ right to privacy and the sovereignty 
of my country. 
Without  the  right  to  privacy  there  is  no  real 
freedom of speech and opinion and therefore no genuine 
democracy.  Without  respect  for  sovereignty  there  is 
no basis for normal relations among nations. What we 
have  before  us  is  a  serious  violation  of  human  rights 
and civil liberties through the invasion and capture of 
confidential secret information pertaining to business 
activities  and,  above  all,  a  case  of  disrespect  for  the 
national sovereignty of my country. We have registered 
our protest with the Government of the United States 
and  we  have  demanded  explanations,  apologies  and 
guarantees that such procedures will never be repeated.
Friendly  Governments  and  societies  that  seek 
to  build  a  truly  strategic  partnership,  as  in  our  case, 
13-48449
7/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
cannot possibly allow recurring illegal actions to take 
place as if they constituted a normal, ordinary practice. 
They are unacceptable. Brazil will redouble its efforts 
to  adopt  legislation,  technologies  and  mechanisms  to 
protect  us  adequately  from  the  illegal  interception  of 
communications  and  data.  My  Administration  will 
do  everything  within  its  reach  and  powers  to  defend 
the  human  rights  of  all  Brazilians  and  all  the  world’s 
citizens, as well as to protect the fruits of the ingenuity 
of Brazilian workers and companies.
telecommunication 
The  problem,  however,  goes  beyond  the  bilateral 
relationship of two countries. It affects the international 
community  itself  and  demands  a  response  from  it. 
Information  and 
technologies 
cannot  become  the  new  battlefield  among  States. 
The  time  is  ripe  to  create  the  conditions  to  prevent 
cyberspace from being used as a weapon of war through 
espionage, sabotage and attacks against the systems and 
infrastructure  of  other  countries.  The  United  Nations 
must play a leading role in the effort to properly regulate 
the conduct of States with regard to those technologies. 
It should also consider the importance of the Internet 
and  social  networks  as  part  of  our  efforts  to  build 
democracy worldwide.
For  that  reason,  Brazil  will  present  proposals  for 
the  establishment  of  a  multilateral  civil  framework 
for  the  governance  and  use  of  the  Internet,  as  well 
as  measures  to  guarantee  the  effective  protection 
of  the  data  and  information  that  traverse  it.  We  must 
establish  multilateral  mechanisms  for  the  worldwide 
web  that  are  capable  of  ensuring  key  principles.  The 
first is freedom of expression, individual privacy and 
respect  for  human  rights;  secondly,  multilateral,  open 
democratic  governance,  conducted  with  transparency 
while  stimulating  collective  creativity  and  the  broad 
participation  of  civil  society,  Governments  and  the 
private  sector;  thirdly,  the  principle  of  universality, 
which ensures social and human development along with 
the  construction  of  inclusive  and  non-discriminatory 
societies;  fourthly,  cultural  diversity,  without  the 
imposition of beliefs, customs or values; and fifthly, the 
neutrality of the web, which must be governed only by 
technical  and  ethical  criteria,  rendering  unacceptable 
any restriction of it for political, commercial, religious 
or any other purposes. Harnessing the full potential of 
the  Internet  therefore  requires  responsible  regulation 
that  will  simultaneously  guarantee  the  freedom  of 
expression, security and respect for human rights.
The  choice  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
as the theme for this session of the General Assembly 
could  not  be  more  appropriate.  The  fight  against 
poverty, hunger and inequality constitutes the greatest 
challenge  of  our  time.  For  that  reason,  Brazil  has 
adopted  a  socially  inclusive  economic  model  based 
on  generating  employment,  strengthening  small-
scale  family  agriculture,  expanding  credit,  increasing 
the  worth  of  salaries  and  developing  a  vast  social 
protection  network,  particularly  through  our  family 
stipend programme. In addition to those achievements, 
we  have  lifted  22  million  Brazilians  out  of  extreme 
poverty  in  only  two  years  through  out  plan  to  free 
Brazil of extreme poverty. We have drastically reduced 
child  mortality.  A  recent  UNICEF  report  indicates 
that  Brazil  has  achieved  one  of  the  most  significant 
reductions in the child mortality in the world.
Children  are  a  top  priority  for  Brazil.  That  is 
reflected in our commitment to education. We are the 
country  that  has  most  increased  public  investment  in 
education,  according  to  the  latest  Organization  for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  report.  We 
have also just approved legislation that earmarks 75 per 
cent of all petroleum revenue to education and 25 per 
cent to health services.
In 
the  debate  on 
the  post-2015  development 
agenda  we  must  focus  on  the  results  of  the  Rio  de 
Janeiro  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  as  key  drivers.  The  major  step  taken  in 
Rio de Janeiro was to place poverty at the very centre 
of  the  sustainable  development  agenda.  Poverty  is 
not  a  problem  exclusive  to  developing  countries,  and 
environmental protection is not a goal to achieve only 
after  poverty  is  overcome.  The  meaning  of  the  post-
2015 agenda is the development of a world in which it is 
possible to grow, to include, to conserve and to protect. 
By promoting social mobility and overcoming extreme 
poverty, as we are doing, we have created an immense 
contingent  of  citizens  with  improved  quality  of  life, 
increased access to information and greater awareness 
of their rights — citizens with new hopes, new desires 
and new demands.
The  demonstrations  last  June  in  Brazil  were  an 
inseparable part of our process of building democracy 
and of social change. My Administration did not repress 
them; on the contrary, it listened to and understood the 
voices  from  the  streets.  We  listened  and  understood 
because  we  ourselves  came  from  the  streets.  We 
ourselves came of age and developed through the great 
8/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
struggles of Brazil. The street is our ground, our base. 
The  protesters  did  not  ask  for  a  return  to  the  past. 
Rather, they asked for further progress towards a future 
of  greater  rights,  more  participation  and  more  social 
gains.
In  Brazil,  it  was  during  this  decade  that  we 
experienced the greatest reduction in social inequality 
in the past 50 years. It was during this decade that we 
created a system of social protection that has allowed 
us  to  nearly  eradicate  extreme  poverty.  We  know  all 
too well that democracy generates the desire for more 
democracy,  that  social  inclusion  creates  demands  for 
further social inclusion, and that quality of life awakens 
people’s yearning for even more quality of life. For us, 
all the progress achieved thus far is just a beginning. 
Our development strategy demands more, as desired by 
all Brazilians.
It  is  not  enough  to  listen.  We  must  act.  We  must 
transform this extraordinary energy into achievements 
for  everyone.  I  have  therefore  launched  five  major 
pacts:  a  pact  against  corruption  and  for  political 
reform;  a  pact  for  urban  mobility,  geared  towards 
the  improvement  of  public  transportation  and  urban 
reform; a pact for education, our great passport to the 
future,  which  will  be  supported  by  royalties  from  oil 
revenues and the petroleum social fund; a health pact 
that  provides  for  doctors  to  assist  Brazilians  in  the 
poorest  and  most  remote  regions  of  the  country;  and 
a fiscal responsibility pact, to guarantee the economic 
viability of this new stage in our history.
Although the most acute phase of the crisis is behind 
us, the situation of the world economy remains fragile, 
with unacceptable levels of unemployment. According 
to statistics from the International Labor Organization, 
there  are  more  than  200  million  unemployed  people 
throughout 
the  world.  That  phenomenon  affects 
populations of both developed and developing countries. 
This is the right time for us to strengthen the trends 
for  growth  in  the  world’s  economy,  which  is  showing 
signs  of  recovery.  Emerging  countries  alone  cannot 
ensure the resumption of global growth. More than ever 
before,  it  is  necessary  to  engage  in  concerted  action 
in  order  to  reduce  unemployment  and  re-establish 
momentum  in  international  trade.  We  are  all  in  the 
same boat.
My country is restoring growth despite the impact 
of  the  international  crisis  of  the  past  few  years.  We 
have relied on three key elements: first, a commitment 
towards  sound  macroeconomic  policies;  secondly, 
continuing  and  upholding  successful  social  inclusion 
policies;  and  thirdly,  the  adoption  of  measures  aimed 
at  increasing  our  productivity,  and  therefore  our 
international  competitiveness.  We  are  committed  to 
stability and inflation-control, to improving the quality 
of  public  spending  and  to  upholding  proper  fiscal 
performance. 
We  reiterate  our  support  for  a  reform  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  The  governance  of 
the  Fund  should  reflect  the  weight  of  emerging  and 
developing  countries  in  the  world  economy.  Delaying 
such  adaptive  reform  will  further  reduce  the  Fund’s 
legitimacy and effectiveness.
The year 2015 will mark the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations and the tenth anniversary of the 
2005  World  Summit.  As  such,  it  will  be  an  occasion 
for us to carry out the urgent reform that we have been 
calling  for  since  that  first  summit.  We  must  avoid  a 
collective defeat of coming to 2015 without a Security 
Council capable of fully exercising its responsibilities in 
today’s world. The limited representation in the Security 
Council, in view of the new challenges of the twenty-
first century, is a source of grave concern. Examples of 
that concern include the huge difficulty in providing a 
solution for the ongoing Syrian conflict and the state of 
paralysis in addressing the Israeli-Palestinian question. 
The recurrent polarization among permanent members 
on important issues has led to a dangerous inaction. The 
Council must be urgently endowed with voices that are 
both independent and constructive. Only by expanding 
the number of permanent and non-permanent members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  by  including  developing 
countries  in  both  categories  will  it  be  possible  to 
solve and overcome the current representativeness and 
legitimacy deficits from which the Council suffers.
The general debate provides us with an opportunity 
to  reiterate  the  fundamental  principles  that  guide  my 
country’s  foreign  policy  and  inform  our  stance  on 
pressing  issues  on  today’s  international  agenda.  We 
guide ourselves and our actions through a defence of a 
multilateral world governed by international law, where 
the peaceful solution of conflicts holds sway and where 
the pursuit of a fair and solidarity-based order prevails 
both economically and socially.
The crisis in Syria has caused unrest and breeds a 
sense of anger. Two and a half years of lives lost and 
destruction  have  caused  the  greatest  humanitarian 
disaster of the century.
13-48449
9/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
Brazil’s population of Syrian descent is an important 
component  of  our  nationality  identity,  Our  country 
is  thus  deeply  involved  with  the  plight  of  the  Syrian 
people. It is necessary to prevent the killing of innocent 
people  —  women,  children  and  the  elderly  —  and  to 
silence  weapons,  whether  they  be  conventional  or 
chemical or whether they be used by the Government 
or  by  the  rebels.  There  is  no  military  way  out.  The 
only  solution  is  through  negotiation,  dialogue  and 
understanding.
Syria’s decision to accede to the Chemical Weapons 
Convention and enforce it immediately was an important 
development.  As  such,  the  measure  is  decisive  for 
overcoming the conflict and helps build a world free of 
chemical weapons. I would like to stress that the use of 
such  weapons  is  heinous  and  unacceptable  under  any 
circumstances.  We  therefore  support  the  agreement 
reached  between  the  United  States  and  the  Russian 
Federation  to  eliminate  Syria’s  chemical  weapons.  It 
is incumbent upon the Syrian Government to fulfil the 
agreement  in  its  entirety  and  do  so  in  good  faith  and 
in a spirit of cooperation. Under all circumstances and 
in  any  case,  we  repudiate  unilateral  interventions  in 
violation of international law and without authorization 
by the Security Council. Unilateral intervention would 
only further worsen the lack of political stability in the 
region and would increase human suffering. 
Likewise, lasting peace between Israel and Palestine 
has taken on a new and pressing dimension given the 
sweeping  changes  that  the  Middle  East  is  currently 
undergoing. The time has come to meet the legitimate 
Palestinian aspiration for an independent and sovereign 
State. The time has also come for us to bring about a 
broad international consensus for a two-State solution. 
The  current  talks  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians 
should yield practical and significant results in favour 
of an agreement.
The  history  of  the  twentieth  century  shows  that 
abandoning  the  multilateral  system  is  a  prelude  to 
war,  with  the  ensuing  trail  of  human  destitution  and 
devastation.  The  history  of  the  twentieth  century 
also  shows  that  promoting  the  multilateral  system 
bears  fruit  on  the  ethical,  political  and  institutional 
fronts.  May  I  therefore  renew  an  appeal  for  a  broad, 
vigorous convergence of political will that will uphold 
and reinvigorate the multilateral system, of which the 
United Nations is the main pillar.
would be able to overcome the wounds of the Second 
World War and the hope that, yes, it would be possible 
to build, from the rubble of destruction and massacre, 
a new world of liberty, solidarity and prosperity. We all 
have the responsibility not to let such a generous and 
fruitful hope die. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federative Republic 
of Brazil for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the United State of America.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States  of  America,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Obama: Each year we come together to 
reaffirm the founding vision of this institution. For most 
of recorded history, individual aspirations were subject 
to the whims of tyrants and empires, and divisions of 
race, religion and tribe were settled through the sword 
and the clash of armies. 
The  idea  that  nations  and  peoples  could  come 
together in peace to solve their disputes and advance a 
common  prosperity  seemed  unimaginable.  It  took  the 
awful carnage of two world wars to shift our thinking. 
The leaders who built the United Nations were not naive. 
They  did  not  think  that  this  body  could  eradicate  all 
wars. But in the wake of millions dead and continents 
in rubble and with the development of nuclear weapons 
that  could  annihilate  a  planet,  they  understood  that 
humanity could not survive the course it was on. They 
gave  us  this  institution,  believing  that  it  could  allow 
us to resolve conflicts, enforce rules of behaviour and 
build  habits  of  cooperation  that  would  grow  stronger 
over time.
When the United Nations was founded, the peoples 
of  the  world  rallied  around  the  hope  that  humankind 
For decades, the United Nations has in fact made 
a  difference,  from  helping  to  eradicate  disease  to 
10/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
educating  children  and  brokering  peace.  But  like 
every generation of leaders, we face new and profound 
challenges,  and  this  body  continues  to  be  tested.  The 
question  is  whether  we  possess  the  wisdom  and  the 
courage as nation States and members of an international 
community to squarely meet those challenges. Can the 
United Nations meet the test of our time?
And for much of my tenure as President, some of 
our  most  urgent  challenges  have  revolved  around  an 
increasingly integrated global economy and our efforts 
to recover from the worst economic crisis of our lifetime. 
Now, five years after the global economy collapsed and 
thanks  to  coordinated  efforts  by  the  countries  here 
today, jobs are being created, global financial systems 
have stabilized and people are once again being lifted 
out of poverty. But this progress is fragile and unequal, 
and we still have work to do together to assure that our 
citizens can access the opportunities that they need in 
order to thrive in the twenty-first century.
Together, we have also worked to end a decade of 
war.  Five  years  ago  nearly  180,000  Americans  were 
serving  in  harm’s  way,  and  the  war  in  Iraq  was  the 
dominant issue in our relationship with the rest of the 
world. Today, all of our troops have left Iraq. Next year an 
international coalition will end its war in Afghanistan, 
having achieved its mission of dismantling the core of 
Al Qaida that attacked us on 9/11.
For  the  United  States,    those  new  circumstances 
have  also  meant  shifting  away  from  a  perpetual  war 
footing.  Beyond  bringing  our  troops  home  we  have 
limited the use of drones so that they target only those 
who  pose  a  continuing  imminent  threat  to  the  United 
States,  when  capture  is  not  feasible  and  when  there 
is  a  near  certainty  of  no  civilian  casualties.  We  are 
transferring  detainees  to  other  countries  and  trying 
terrorists in courts of law, while working diligently to 
close  the  prison  at  Guantanamo  Bay.  Just  as  we  have 
reviewed  how  we  deploy  our  extraordinary  military 
capabilities in a way that lives up to our ideals, we have 
begun  to  review  the  way  that  we  gather  intelligence, 
so  that  we  properly  balance  the  legitimate  security 
concerns  of  our  citizens  and  allies  with  the  privacy 
concerns that all people share.
As  a  result  of  such  work  and  cooperation  with 
allies and partners, the world is more stable than it was 
five years ago. But even a glance at today’s headlines 
indicates  that  dangers  remain.  In  Kenya,  we  have 
seen  terrorists  target  innocent  civilians  in  a  crowded 
shopping  mall.  Our  hearts  go  out  to  the  families  of 
those who have been affected. In Pakistan, nearly 100 
people were recently killed by suicide bombers outside 
a church. In Iraq, killings and car bombs continue to be 
a terrible part of life.
Meanwhile,  Al-Qaida  has  splintered  into  regional 
networks  and  militias,  which  does  not  give  them  the 
capacity  at  this  point  to  carry  out  attacks  like  9/11 
but  does  pose  serious  threats  to  Governments  and 
diplomats, businesses and civilians all across the globe. 
Just as significantly, the convulsions in the Middle East 
and North Africa have laid bare deep divisions within 
societies, as an old order is upended and people grapple 
with what is coming next. Peaceful movements have too 
often  been  answered  by  violence  from  those  resisting 
change  and  from  extremists  trying  to  hijack  change. 
Sectarian  conflict  has  re-emerged,  and  the  potential 
spread of weapons of mass destruction continues to cast 
a shadow over the pursuit of peace.
than 
Nowhere  have  we  seen  those  trends  converge 
more  powerfully 
in  Syria.  There,  peaceful 
protests against an authoritarian regime were met with 
repression and slaughter. In the face of such carnage, 
many retreated to their sectarian identities — Alawite 
and  Sunni,  Christian  and  Kurd  —  and  the  situation 
spiralled into civil war.
The international community recognized the stakes 
early on, but our response has not matched the scale of 
the challenge. Aid cannot keep pace with the suffering 
of  the  wounded  and  displaced.  A  peace  process  is 
stillborn.  America  and  others  have  worked  to  bolster 
the moderate opposition, but extremist groups have still 
taken root to exploit the crisis.
Al-Assad’s traditional allies have propped him up, 
citing  principles  of  sovereignty  to  shield  his  regime. 
On  21  August,  the  regime  used  chemical  weapons  in 
an attack that killed more than 1,000 people, including 
hundreds of children. Today, the crisis in Syria and the 
destabilization of the region goes to the heart of broader 
challenges that the international community must now 
confront.  How  should  we  respond  to  conflicts  in  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa  —  conflicts  between 
countries, but also conflicts within them? How do we 
address the choice between standing callously by while 
children  are  subjected  to  nerve  gas  and  embroiling 
ourselves in someone else’s civil war? What is the role of 
force in resolving disputes that threaten the stability of 
a region and undermine all basic standards of civilized 
conduct? And what is the role of the United Nations and 
international law in meeting cries for justice?
13-48449
11/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
Today, I want to outline where the United States of 
America stands on those issues.
With respect to Syria, we believe that, as a starting 
point, the international community must enforce the ban 
on chemical weapons. When I stated my willingness to 
order  a  limited  strike  against  the  Al-Assad  regime  in 
response to its brazen use of chemical weapons, I did 
not  do  so  lightly.  I  did  so  because  I  believe  that  it  is 
in  the  national  security  interests  of  the  United  States 
and in the interest of the world to meaningfully enforce 
a  prohibition  whose  origins  are  older  than  the  United 
Nations  itself.  The  ban  against  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons, even in war, has been agreed to by 98 percent 
of humanity. It is strengthened by the searing memories 
of soldiers suffocated in the trenches, Jews slaughtered 
in gas chambers, Iranians poisoned in the many tens of 
thousands.
that  advanced  rockets  had  fired 
The  evidence  is  overwhelming  that  the  Al-Assad 
regime  used  such  weapons  on  21  August.  United 
Nations  inspectors  gave  a  clear  accounting  of  their 
findings 
large 
quantities of sarin gas at civilians. Those rockets were 
fired  from  a  regime-controlled  neighbourhood  and 
landed in opposition neighbourhoods. It is an insult to 
human reason and to the legitimacy of this institution 
to suggest that anyone other than the regime carried out 
this attack.
I know that in the immediate aftermath of the attack 
there were those who questioned the legitimacy of even 
a limited strike in the absence of a clear mandate from 
the  Security  Council.  But  without  a  credible  military 
threat,  the  Security  Council  had  demonstrated  no 
inclination to act at all. However, as I have discussed 
with President Putin for over a year, most recently in 
St. Petersburg, my preference has always been to work 
for a diplomatic resolution to this issue, and in the past 
several weeks, the United States, Russia and our allies 
have  reached  an  agreement  to  place  Syria’s  chemical 
weapons  under  international  control  and  then  destroy 
them.
The Syrian Government took a first step by giving 
an  accounting  of  its  stockpiles.  Now,  there  must  be  a 
strong  Security  Council  resolution  to  verify  that  the 
Al-Assad regime is keeping its commitments, and there 
must be consequences if they fail to do so. If we cannot 
agree even on that, then that will show that the United 
Nations  is  incapable  of  enforcing  the  most  basic  of 
international laws. On the other hand, if we succeed, it 
will send a powerful message that the use of chemical 
weapons  has  no  place  in  the  twenty-first  century  and 
that this Organization means what it says.
Our  agreement  on  chemical  weapons  should 
energize a larger diplomatic effort to reach a political 
settlement within Syria. I do not believe that military 
action by those within Syria or by external Powers can 
achieve a lasting peace, nor do I believe that America 
or  any  nation  should  determine  who  will  lead  Syria. 
That is for the Syrian people to decide. Nevertheless, a 
leader who has slaughtered his own citizens and gassed 
children to death cannot regain the legitimacy to lead 
a  badly  fractured  country.  The  notion  that  Syria  can 
return to a pre-war status quo is a fantasy. 
It is time for Russia and Iran to realize that insisting 
on Al-Assad’s rule will lead directly to the outcome that 
they fear — an increasingly violent space for extremists 
to  operate  in.  In  turn,  those  of  us  who  continue  to 
support  the  moderate  opposition  must  persuade  them 
that the Syrian people cannot afford a collapse of State 
institutions  and  that  a  political  settlement  cannot  be 
reached  without  addressing  the  legitimate  fears  and 
concerns of Alawites and other minorities. 
We are committed to working this political track, 
and  as  we  pursue  a  settlement,  let  us  remember  that 
this is not a zero-sum endeavour. We are no longer in 
a cold war. There is no great game to be won, nor does 
America  have  any  interest  in  Syria  beyond  the  well-
being of its people, the stability of its neighbours, the 
elimination  of  chemical  weapons  and  ensuring  that  it 
does not become a safe haven for terrorists. I welcome 
the influence of all nations that can help bring about a 
peaceful resolution of Syria’s civil war. 
As  we  move  the  Geneva  process  forward,  I 
urge  all  nations  represented  here  to  step  up  to  meet 
the  humanitarian  needs  in  Syria  and  surrounding 
countries. America has committed over a billion dollars 
to that effort, and today I can announce that we will be 
providing an additional $340 million. No aid can take 
the place of a political resolution that gives the Syrian 
people the chance to begin rebuilding their country, but 
it can help desperate people survive.
What  broader  conclusions  can  be  drawn  from 
America’s policy towards Syria? I know that there are 
those  who  have  been  frustrated  by  our  unwillingness 
to  use  our  military  might  to  depose  Al-Assad  and 
believe that a failure to do so indicates a weakening of 
America’s resolve in the region. Others have suggested 
that  my  willingness  to  direct  even  limited  military 
12/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
strikes  to  deter  the  further  use  of  chemical  weapons 
shows that we have learned nothing from Iraq, and that 
America continues to seek control over the Middle East 
for  our  own  purposes.  The  situation  in  Syria  mirrors 
a  contradiction  that  has  persisted  in  the  region  for 
decades. The United States is chastised for meddling in 
the region and accused of having a hand in all manner 
of conspiracies. At the same time, the United States is 
blamed  for  failing  to  do  enough  to  solve  the  region’s 
problems and for showing indifference toward suffering 
Muslim populations.
I  realize  that  some  of  that  is  inevitable,  given 
America’s  role  in  the  world,  but  such  contradictory 
attitudes  have  a  practical  impact  on  the  American 
people’s  support  for  our  involvement  in  the  region 
and  allow  leaders  in  the  region,  and  the  international 
community  sometimes,  to  avoid  addressing  difficult 
problems  themselves.  So  let  me  take  this  opportunity 
to outline what has been United States policy towards 
the Middle East and North Africa and what will be my 
policy during the remainder of my presidency.
is  steadily  reducing 
The  United  States  of  America  is  prepared  to  use 
all  elements  of  our  power,  including  military  force, 
to  secure  these  core  interests  in  the  region.  We  will 
confront  external  aggression  against  our  allies  and 
partners,  as  we  did  in  the  Gulf  War.  We  will  ensure 
the  free  flow  of  energy  from  the  region  to  the  world. 
Although  America 
its  own 
dependence  on  imported  oil,  the  world  still  depends 
upon the region’s energy supply, and a severe disruption 
could  destabilize  the  entire  global  economy.  We  will 
dismantle  terrorist  networks  that  threaten  our  people. 
Wherever  possible,  we  will  build  the  capacity  of  our 
partners,  respect  the  sovereignty  of  nations  and  work 
to  address  the  root  causes  of  terror,  but  when  it  is 
necessary to defend the United States against terrorist 
attack, we will take direct action. Finally, we will not 
tolerate  the  development  or  use  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  Just  as  we  consider  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria  to  be  a  threat  to  our  own  national 
security, we reject the development of nuclear weapons 
that could trigger a nuclear arms race in the region and 
undermine the global non-proliferation regime.
Now, to say that those are America’s core interests 
is not to say that they are our only interests. We deeply 
believe that it is in our interest to see a Middle East and 
North Africa that are peaceful and prosperous, and we 
will continue to promote democracy, human rights and 
open markets, because we believe that those practices 
help  achieve  peace  and  prosperity.  But  I  also  believe 
that  we  can  rarely  achieve  those  objectives  through 
unilateral  American  action,  particularly  military 
action.  Iraq  has  shown  us  that  democracy  cannot 
simply be imposed by force. Rather, such objectives are 
best  achieved  when  we  partner  with  the  international 
community and with the countries and peoples of the 
region.
So what does that mean going forward? In the near 
term,  America’s  diplomatic  efforts  will  focus  on  two 
particular  issues:  Iran’s  pursuit  of  nuclear  weapons 
and  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  While  those  issues  are 
not the cause of all of the region’s problems, they have 
been a major source of instability for far too long, and 
resolving  them  can  help  serve  as  a  foundation  for  a 
broader peace.
The  United  States  and  Iran  have  been  isolated 
from one another since the Islamic revolution of 1979. 
That  mistrust  has  deep  roots.  Iranians  have  long 
complained  of  a  history  of  United  States  interference 
in their affairs and of America’s role in overthrowing 
an  Iranian  Government  during  the  cold  war.  On  the 
other hand, Americans see an Iranian Government that 
has  declared  the  United  States  an  enemy  and  directly 
or through proxies has taken Americans hostage, killed 
United  States  troops  and  civilians  and  threatened  our 
ally Israel with destruction.
I  do  not  believe  such  a  difficult  history  can  be 
overcome overnight. The suspicion runs too deep. But 
I do believe that, if we can resolve the issue of Iran’s 
nuclear programme, that can serve as a major step down 
a long road towards a different relationship, one based 
on mutual interests and mutual respect.
Since I took office, I have made it clear, in letters 
to  the  Supreme  Leader  in  Iran  and,  more  recently,  to 
President Rouhani, that America prefers to resolve its 
concerns  over  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  peacefully, 
although  we  are  determined  to  prevent  Iran  from 
developing a nuclear weapon. We are not seeking regime 
change, and we respect the right of the Iranian people 
to  access  peaceful  nuclear  energy.  Instead,  we  insist 
that  the  Iranian  Government  meet  its  responsibilities 
under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons and Security Council resolutions. Meanwhile, 
the  Supreme  Leader  has  issued  a  fatwa  against  the 
development  of  nuclear  weapons,  and  President 
Rouhani  has  just  recently  reiterated  that  the  Islamic 
Republic will never develop a nuclear weapon.
13-48449
13/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
Those 
statements  made  by  our 
respective 
Governments  should  offer  the  basis  for  a  meaningful 
agreement.  We  should  be  able  to  achieve  a  resolution 
that  respects  the  rights  of  the  Iranian  people  while 
giving the world confidence that the Iranian programme 
is  peaceful.  But  to  succeed,  conciliatory  words  will 
have to be matched by actions that are transparent and 
verifiable.  After  all,  it  is  the  Iranian  Government’s 
choices  that  have  led  to  the  comprehensive  sanctions 
that are currently in place. That is not simply an issue 
between  the  United  States  and  Iran.  The  world  has 
seen Iran evade its responsibilities in the past and has 
an abiding interest in making sure that Iran meets its 
obligations in future.
But I want to be clear. We are encouraged by the 
fact that President Rouhani received from the Iranian 
people  a  mandate  to  pursue  a  more  moderate  course. 
Given President Rouhani’s stated commitment to reach 
an agreement, I am directing John Kerry to pursue this 
effort with the Iranian Government, in close cooperation 
with the European Union, the United Kingdom, France, 
Germany, Russia and China.
The  roadblocks  may  prove  to  be  too  great,  but  I 
firmly believe that the diplomatic path must be tested. 
For while the status quo will only deepen Iran’s isolation, 
Iran’s genuine commitment to go down a different path 
will be good for the region and the world, and will help 
the Iranian people meet their extraordinary potential in 
commerce and culture, in science and education.
We  are  also  determined  to  resolve  a  conflict  that 
goes  back  even  further  than  our  differences  with 
Iran:  the  conflict  between  Palestinians  and  Israelis. 
I  have  made  it  clear  that  the  United  States  will  never 
compromise  our  commitment  to  Israel’s  security,  nor 
our support for its existence as a Jewish State. Earlier 
this year, in Jerusalem, I was inspired by young Israelis 
who stood up for the belief that peace was necessary, 
just and possible, and I believe that there is a growing 
recognition within Israel that the occupation of the West 
Bank is tearing at the democratic fabric of the Jewish 
State. But the children of Israel have the right to live in 
a world where the nations assembled in this body fully 
recognize  their  country  and  where  we  unequivocally 
reject  those  who  fire  rockets  at  their  homes  or  incite 
others to hate them.
Likewise, the United States remains committed to 
the belief that the Palestinian people have a right to live 
in security and dignity in their own sovereign State. On 
the same trip, I had the opportunity to meet with young 
Palestinians in Ramallah whose ambition and incredible 
potential  are  matched  only  by  the  pain  they  feel  in 
having no firm place in the community of nations. They 
are understandably cynical as to whether real progress 
will  ever  be  made,  and  they  are  frustrated  by  their 
families  enduring  the  daily  indignity  of  occupation. 
But they, too, recognize that two States is the only real 
path  to  peace,  because,  just  as  the  Palestinian  people 
must not be displaced, the State of Israel is here to stay.
The  time  is  now  ripe  for  the  entire  international 
community to get behind the pursuit of peace. Already 
Israeli  and  Palestinian  leaders  have  demonstrated  a 
willingness to take significant political risks. President 
Abbas  has  put  aside  efforts  to  short-cut  the  pursuit 
of  peace  and  come  to  the  negotiating  table.  Prime 
Minister Netanyahu has released Palestinian prisoners 
and reaffirmed his commitment to a Palestinian State. 
Current  talks  are  focused  on  final  status  issues  of 
borders and security, refugees and Jerusalem.
So now the rest of us must be willing to take risks 
as well. Friends of Israel, including the United States, 
must  recognize  that  Israel’s  security  as  a  Jewish  and 
democratic  State  depends  upon  the  realization  of  a 
Palestinian  State,  and  we  should  say  so  clearly.  Arab 
States, and those who have supported the Palestinians, 
must recognize that stability will be served only through 
a two-State solution and a secure Israel. All of us must 
recognize that peace will be a powerful tool to defeat 
extremists  throughout  the  region  and  embolden  those 
who  are  prepared  to  build  a  better  future.  Moreover, 
ties of trade and commerce between Israelis and Arabs 
could  be  an  engine  of  growth  and  opportunity  at  a 
time  when  too  many  young  people  in  the  region  are 
languishing  without  work.  So  let  us  emerge  from  the 
familiar corners of blame and prejudice. Let us support 
Israeli and Palestinian leaders who are prepared to walk 
the difficult road to peace.
Real  breakthroughs  on  these  two  issues  —  Iran’s 
nuclear programme and Israeli-Palestinian peace — would 
have a profound and positive impact on the entire Middle 
East  and  North  Africa.  But  the  current  convulsions 
arising out of the Arab Spring remind us that a just and 
lasting peace cannot be measured only by agreements 
between nations. It must also be measured by our ability 
to resolve conflict and promote justice within nations. 
And by that measure, it is clear that all of us have a lot 
more work to do. 
When  peaceful  transitions  began  in  Tunisia  and 
Egypt,  the  entire  world  was  filled  with  hope.  And 
14/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
although the United States, like others, was struck by 
the speed of transition, and although we did not — and 
in fact could not — dictate events, we chose to support 
those  who  called  for  change.  We  did  so  based  on  the 
belief that while these transitions will be hard and take 
time,  societies  based  upon  democracy  and  openness 
and  the  dignity  of  the  individual  will  ultimately  be 
more stable, more prosperous and more peaceful. 
Over  the  last  few  years,  particularly  in  Egypt, 
we  have  seen  just  how  hard  this  transition  will  be. 
Mohammed  Morsi  was  democratically  elected,  but 
proved unwilling or unable to govern in a way that was 
fully inclusive. The interim Government that replaced 
him responded to the desires of millions of Egyptians 
who believed the revolution had taken a wrong turn, but 
it, too, has made decisions inconsistent with inclusive 
democracy, through an emergency law and restrictions 
on the press, civil society and opposition parties.
Of course, America has been attacked by all sides 
of  this  internal  conflict,  simultaneously  accused  of 
supporting  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  and  engineering 
its removal from power. In fact, the United States has 
purposely  avoided  choosing  sides.  Our  overriding 
interest  throughout  these  past  few  years  has  been  to 
encourage  a  Government  that  legitimately  reflects 
the  will  of  the  Egyptian  people  and  recognizes  true 
democracy  as  requiring  a  respect  for  minority  rights, 
the rule of law, freedom of speech and assembly, and a 
strong civil society.
That  remains  our  interest  today.  And  so,  going 
forward, the United States will maintain a constructive 
relationship with the interim Government that promotes 
core interests like the Camp David Accords and counter-
terrorism.  We  will  continue  support  in  areas  such  as 
education  that  directly  benefit  the  Egyptian  people. 
But we have not proceeded with the delivery of certain 
military  systems,  and  our  support  will  depend  upon 
Egypt’s progress in pursuing a more democratic path. 
Our approach to Egypt reflects a larger point: the 
United  States  will  at  times  work  with  Governments 
that do not meet — at least in our view — the highest 
international expectations, but who work with us on our 
core interests. Nevertheless, we will not stop asserting 
principles that are consistent with our ideals, whether 
that  means  opposing  the  use  of  violence  as  a  means 
of  suppressing  dissent  or  supporting  the  principles 
embodied  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. We will reject the notion that those principles 
are simply Western exports, incompatible with Islam or 
the Arab world. We believe that they are the birthright 
of  every  person.  And  while  we  recognize  that  our 
influence will at times be limited, although we will be 
wary of efforts to impose democracy through military 
force,  and  although  we  will  at  times  be  accused  of 
hypocrisy and inconsistency, we will be engaged in the 
region for the long haul. For the hard work of forging 
freedom  and  democracy  is  the  task  of  a  generation. 
That includes efforts to resolve sectarian tensions that 
continue  to  surface  in  places  like  Iraq,  Bahrain  and 
Syria. 
We  understand  that  such  long-standing  issues 
cannot be solved by outsiders; they must be addressed 
by Muslim communities themselves. But we have seen 
grinding conflicts come to an end before, most recently 
in  Northern  Ireland,  where  Catholics  and  Protestants 
finally recognized that an endless cycle of conflict was 
causing both communities to fall behind a fast-moving 
world.  And  so  we  believe  that  those  same  sectarian 
conflicts can be overcome in the Middle East and North 
Africa. 
To summarize, the United States has a hard-earned 
humility  when  it  comes  to  our  ability  to  determine 
events inside other countries. The notion of American 
empire may be useful propaganda, but it is not borne 
out  by  America’s  current  policy  or  public  opinion. 
Indeed, as recent debates within the United States over 
Syria clearly showed, the danger for the world is not an 
America that is too eager to immerse itself in the affairs 
of  other  countries  or  to  take  on  every  problem  in  the 
region as its own. The danger for the world is that the 
United States, after a decade of war, rightly concerned 
about  issues  back  home  and  aware  of  the  hostility 
that  our  engagement  in  the  region  has  engendered 
throughout the Muslim world, may disengage, creating 
a vacuum of leadership that no other nation is ready to 
fill.
I  believe  that  such  disengagement  would  be  a 
mistake. I believe that America must remain engaged 
for our own security, but I also believe that the world 
is  better  for  it.  Some  may  disagree,  but  I  believe  that 
America is exceptional, in part because we have shown 
a  willingness,  through  the  sacrifice  of  blood  and 
treasure, to stand up not only for our own narrow self-
interest,  but  for  the  interests  of  all.  I  must  be  honest, 
though;  we  are  far  more  likely  to  invest  our  energy 
in  those  countries  that  want  to  work  with  us,  that 
invest in their people instead of in a corrupt few, and 
that  embrace  a  vision  of  society  where  everyone  can 
13-48449
15/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
contribute — men and women, Shia or Sunni, Muslim, 
Christian or Jew. Because from Europe to Asia, from 
Africa to the Americas, nations that have persevered on 
a democratic path have emerged more prosperous, more 
peaceful and more invested in upholding our common 
security and our common humanity. And I believe that 
the same will hold true for the Arab world.
That  leads  me  to  a  final  point.  There  will  be 
times when the breakdown of societies is so great and 
the  violence  against  civilians  so  substantial,  that  the 
international  community  will  be  called  upon  to  act. 
That  will  require  new  thinking  and  some  very  tough 
choices.  While  the  United  Nations  was  designed  to 
prevent  wars  between  States,  increasingly  we  face 
the  challenge  of  preventing  slaughter  within  States. 
And  those  challenges  will  grow  more  pronounced 
as  we  are  confronted  with  States  that  are  fragile  or 
failing  —  places  where  horrendous  violence  can  put 
innocent men, women and children at risk with no hope 
of protection from their national institutions.
I have made it clear that even when America’s core 
interests are not directly threatened, we stand ready to 
do our part to prevent mass atrocities and protect basic 
human rights. But we cannot and should not bear that 
burden  alone.  In  Mali,  we  supported  both  the  French 
intervention  that  successfully  pushed  back  Al-Qaida 
and the African forces who are keeping the peace. In 
East Africa, we are working with partners to bring the 
Lord’s Resistance Army to an end. And in Libya, when 
the  Security  Council  provided  a  mandate  to  protect 
civilians, America joined a coalition that took action. 
Because  of  what  we  did  there,  countless  lives  were 
saved and a tyrant could not kill his way back to power.
I  know  that  some  now  criticize  the  action  in 
Libya as an object lesson. They point to the problems 
that  the  country  now  confronts  —  a  democratically 
elected  Government  struggling  to  provide  security; 
armed groups, in some places extremists, ruling parts 
of a fractured land — and these critics argue that any 
intervention to protect civilians is doomed to fail. Look 
at  Libya.  No  one  is  more  mindful  of  those  problems 
than  I  am,  for  they  resulted  in  the  death  of  four 
outstanding United States citizens who were committed 
to  the  Libyan  people,  including  Ambassador  Chris 
Stevens — a man whose courageous efforts helped save 
the city of Benghazi. But does anyone truly believe that 
the situation in Libya would be better if Al-Qadhafi had 
been allowed to kill, imprison or brutalize his people 
into  submission?  It  is  far  more  likely  that  without 
international  action,  Libya  would  now  be  engulfed  in 
civil war and bloodshed.
We live in a world of imperfect choices. Different 
nations will not agree on the need for action in every 
instance, and the principle of sovereignty is at the centre 
of  our  international  order.  But  sovereignty  cannot  be 
a  shield  for  tyrants  to  commit  wanton  murder  or  an 
excuse for the international community to turn a blind 
eye. While we need to be modest in our belief that we 
can remedy every evil, and while we need to be mindful 
that  the  world  is  full  of  unintended  consequences, 
should  we  really  accept  the  notion  that  the  world  is 
powerless in the face of a Rwanda or a Srebrenica? If 
that is the world that people want to live in, they should 
say so and reckon with the cold logic of mass graves.
I believe that we can embrace a different future. If 
we do not want to choose between inaction and war, we 
must get better — all of us — at the policies that prevent 
the  breakdown  of  basic  order  through  respect  for  the 
responsibilities of nations and the rights of individuals, 
through  meaningful  sanctions  for  those  who  break 
the rules, through dogged diplomacy that resolves the 
root  causes  of  conflict  and  not  merely  its  aftermath, 
and  through  development  assistance  that  brings  hope 
to the marginalized. And yes sometimes, all this will 
not  be  enough  and  there  will  be  moments  when  the 
international community will need to acknowledge that 
the multilateral use of military force may be required to 
prevent the very worst from occurring. 
Ultimately,  that  is  the  international  community 
that America seeks — one where nations do not covet 
the land or resources of other nations, but one in which 
we  carry  out  the  founding  purpose  of  this  institution 
and where we all take responsibility; a world in which 
the rules established out of the horrors of war can help 
us resolve conflicts peacefully and prevent the kind of 
wars that our forefathers fought; a world where human 
beings can live with dignity and meet their basic needs, 
whether they live in New York or Nairobi, in Peshawar 
or Damascus.
These  are  extraordinary  times  with  extraordinary 
opportunities.  Thanks  to  human  progress,  a  child 
born  anywhere  on  Earth  today  can  do  things  that 
60 years ago would have been out of reach for the mass 
of  humankind.  I  saw  this  in  Africa,  where  nations 
moving  beyond  conflict  are  now  poised  to  take  off. 
America  is  with  them:  partnering  to  feed  the  hungry 
and  to  care  for  the  sick  and  to  bring  power  to  places 
off  the  grid.  I  see  it  across  the  Pacific  region,  where 
16/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
hundreds of millions have been lifted out of poverty in 
a single generation. I see it in the faces of young people 
everywhere  who  can  access  the  entire  world  with  the 
click of a button and who are eager to join the cause of 
eradicating extreme poverty, combating climate change, 
starting  businesses,  expanding  freedom,  and  leaving 
behind  the  old  ideological  battles  of  the  past.  That  is 
what is happening in Asia and Africa, it is happening 
in Europe and the Americas. That is the future that the 
people of the Middle East and North Africa deserve as 
well, one where they can focus on opportunity, instead 
of on whether they will be killed or repressed because 
of who they are or what they believe. 
Time  and  again,  nations  and  people  have  shown 
a capacity to change, to live up to humanity’s highest 
ideals, to choose a better history. Last month, I stood 
where 50 years ago Martin Luther King Jr. told America 
about  his  dream,  at  a  time  when  many  people  of  my 
race could not even vote for President. Earlier this year, 
I stood in the small cell where Nelson Mandela endured 
for decades, cut off from his own people and the world. 
Who are we to believe that today’s challenges cannot be 
overcome, when we have seen what changes the human 
spirit  can  bring?  Who  in  this  Hall  can  argue  that  the 
future belongs to those who seek to repress that spirit, 
rather than to those who seek to liberate it? 
I know what side of history I want the United States 
of America to be on. We are ready to meet tomorrow’s 
challenges  with  you,  firm  in  the  belief  that  all  men 
and  women  are  in  fact  created  equal,  each  individual 
possessed  with  a  dignity  and  inalienable  rights  that 
cannot  be  denied.  That  is  why  we  look  to  the  future 
not  with  fear,  but  with  hope.  That  is  why  we  remain 
convinced  that  this  community  of  nations  can  deliver 
a more peaceful, prosperous, and just world to the next 
generation. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the United States for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Mr.  Guterres  (Timor-Leste),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Address by Mr. Abdullah Gül, President of the 
Republic of Turkey
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey.
Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Abdullah Gül, President of 
the Republic of Turkey, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Gül:  I  wish  to  start  by  extending  our 
sincere  congratulations  to  Mr.  John  Ashe  on  his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. 
At  the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we  had 
every reason to be optimistic about the future. With the 
end  of  the  Cold  War,  the  moral  balance  of  the  world 
shifted  towards  the  pursuit  of  peace.  A  lasting  peace 
is  far  more  than  the  mere  absence  of  war.  We,  the 
international community, understood the imperative of 
working together for a stable world order. We maintain 
our  strong  commitment  to  the  universal  principles  of 
the United Nations system and, in a spirit of solidarity 
and  cooperation,  we  develop  effective  international 
responses to the scourge of terrorism. 
Yet  the  most  profound  crises  of  our  times  have 
been emerging from internal conflicts. Such conflicts 
have been increasing in both frequency and magnitude. 
They  are  largely  driven  by  the  problem  of  political 
legitimacy, which leads the governed to withhold their 
consent  and  limits  the  prospects  for  domestic  order. 
Leaders  without  political  legitimacy  share  a  common 
delusion.  Instead  of  reading  the  future  and  leading 
transformation,  they  believe  that  they  can  buy  time 
with  irresponsible  actions  against  their  own  people. 
Eventually, those domestic conflicts escalate into civil 
wars, such as the tragedy we are witnessing in Syria. 
The actions of those leaders have implications for peace 
and security beyond their own borders. If some leaders 
insist on defining their security in a way that inflicts 
insecurity upon other nations there can be no collective 
security. 
Today regional and international peace and security 
depend upon the maintenance of domestic order in each 
13-48449
17/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
individual  nation.  True  domestic  peace  is  the  key  to 
regional  and  international  peace  and  stability  That  is 
a challenge that we will continue to face in the years 
ahead.
We  all  know  that  no  one  holds  a  monopoly  on 
righteousness,  yet  I  would  like  to  touch  upon  the 
function  of  the  whole  United  Nations  system.  We  all 
need a strong, efficient and credible United Nations. We 
need a United Nations fit for its purpose in confronting 
current  global  realities.  The  United  Nations  of  which 
I  speak  should  be  a  body  capable  of  taking  action  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security.  It  should 
be able to safeguard security, justice and the people’s 
fundamental rights and freedoms. It should never forfeit 
its prime responsibility for the sake of power politics.
We  must  realize  that  inaction  by  the  Security 
Council only emboldens aggressive regimes. We need 
a United Nations capable of forcing the perpetrators of 
brutal actions to submit to justice and the rule of law. 
Only through such a United Nations can we achieve the 
truly peaceful world envisioned by the Organization’s 
founders. Yet as much as that remains a noble goal, it is 
also an urgent necessity. Decisive action is the only way 
that the United Nations system will remain relevant and 
credible. To face that new reality, we need a Security 
Council 
truly  democratic,  representative, 
effective and accountable.
that 
is 
No  issue  facing  us  is  more  pressing  than  the 
situation in Syria. Let me be clear. Turkey welcomes and 
firmly  supports  the  United  States-Russian  agreement 
to eliminate Syria’s arsenal of chemical weapons. That 
agreement has to be translated into a tangible Security 
Council resolution. When Syria comes clean about its 
arsenal, once and for all, it will be a relief for the Syrian 
people and the region. As Syria’s neighbour, Turkey will 
appreciate more than most the complete and verifiable 
destruction of those weapons.
Nevertheless,  we  cannot  forget  that  chemical 
weapons  were  used  against  Syrian  civilians  only  a 
month  ago.  The  perpetrators  of  that  crime  against 
humanity must be held accountable and be brought to 
justice.  I  also  see  the  agreement  on  Syrian  chemical 
weapons as an opportunity. I hope it will be a first step 
in the formation of a security architecture to ensure the 
elimination of all weapons of mass destruction in the 
Middle East.
Yet  the  recent  approach  to  the  situation  in  Syria 
also raises difficult questions. Were it not for the use of 
chemical weapons, would the international community 
have continued to turn a blind eye to the deaths of more 
than  100,000  people?  For  how  long  can  we  afford  to 
evade  our  moral  responsibility  to  the  people  being 
killed  even  as  we  speak  here?  The  conflict  neither 
began  with  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  nor  will  it 
end with an agreement to eliminate them. We therefore 
bluntly  reject  any  position  that  is  not  troubled  by  the 
killing  of  innocent  people  in  itself,  but  only  by  the 
means of such killing. Such an approach is immoral and 
totally unacceptable. The agreement to destroy Syria’s 
chemical  arsenal  must  not  allow  the  regime  to  avoid 
responsibility for its other crimes.
Syria,  a  great  country  and  a  great  nation,  is 
consuming  itself.  It  is  a  disgrace  that  the  Security 
Council has failed to uphold its primary responsibility 
in  that  case.  It  is  deeply  regrettable  that  political 
differences, balance-of-power politics and geopolitical 
considerations  have  prevailed  over  the  imperative 
to  end  the  tragedy.  Staying  on  this  course  cannot  be 
an  option.  When  the  tragedy  began,  we  spoke  of  the 
killing  of  hundreds  of  people,  then  thousands,  then 
tens of thousands, and now we speak of over a hundred 
thousand  deaths.  If  we  cannot  stop  the  conflict  now, 
rest  assured  that  we  will  be  talking  about  twice  that 
number next year. 
I  cannot  emphasize  this  enough.  Agreement  on 
chemical  weapons  must  not  be  allowed  to  substitute 
for  a  comprehensive  political  strategy  to  address  the 
situation in Syria. The conflict has evolved into a real 
threat  to  regional  peace  and  security.  Any  recurrence 
of the proxy wars of the Cold War era will plunge Syria 
into further chaos.
The  continuation  of  the  refugee  crisis  will  pose 
vital  social,  political  and  economic  risks  for  the  host 
nations, as we have learned bitterly on many occasions. 
We know that civil wars are among the most brutal. We 
also know how they foster radicalism and extremism. 
Once extremist groups take root in a State, they form 
autonomous  structures  and  become  a  real  threat  to 
security, not only at home but also abroad. In the end, 
dissolving  such  organizations  presents  the  greatest 
challenge to restoring security in a country.
We must be aware of the threat and realize that with 
each  day  we  lose  in  indecision,  the  more  remote  the 
prospects for a peaceful Syria become. After the Syrian 
people  took  to  the  streets  against  the  regime,  many 
international  statements  were  made  to  support  their 
cause,  strong  in  their  wording  and  promises.  Those 
18/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
apparent  commitments  raised  the  hopes  of  the  Syrian 
people.  Yet  many  nations  remained  at  a  comfortable 
distance,  disturbed  only  by  the  horrible  images  from 
Syria.  Meanwhile,  the  Syrian  people’s  cries  for  help 
went unheeded. What could match the Syrian people’s 
disappointment as they suffered the worst massacre of 
the twenty-first century as the international community 
simply looked on.
That  brings  me  to  the  question  of  what  needs  to 
be  done.  There  has  to  be  a  sound  strategy  with  well-
defined  and  well-calculated  objectives  for  a  peaceful 
solution. It has to aim to end Syria’s civil war, ensuring 
the immediate safety and security of the Syrian people 
and the country’s stable transition. The enforcement of 
such a strategy requires a fully determined, committed 
and  robust  international  engagement  —  exactly  what 
has been missing since the beginning of the conflict. 
In short, we cannot and shall not leave the Syrian 
people  to  their  fate.  The  burden  of  ending  Syria’s 
plight  now  rests  on  the  shoulders  of  the  international 
community.  Strong  words  of  support  must  now  be 
matched  by  real  deeds.  We  must  be  relentless  in  our 
search  for  a  new,  stable,  intact  and  secure  Syria,  at 
peace with its people and its neighbours. To that end, 
we must devise and enforce a political strategy led by 
the Permanent Five and the neighbouring countries.
For the last three years, the Middle East has been 
experiencing  a  remarkable  era  of  social  and  political 
change.  The  process  of  transformation  begun  in  2010 
marks  the  end  of  the  century-old,  region-wide  status 
quo.  Of  course,  there  have  been  and  will  be  waves 
of  reaction  against  the  changes.  Nevertheless,  the 
advances in the region, including in Tunisia, Libya and 
Egypt, are irreversible. 
Arab  peoples  are  equally  capable  of  building 
pluralistic societies. Yet we should not expect the newly 
emerging  political  systems  to  transform  into  mature 
democracies  overnight.  It  is  only  through  slow  but 
steady democratic processes that societies will come to 
understand  the  value  of  conciliation.  The  noble  cause 
of the Arab peoples deserves our full and unhesitating 
support.
The  continuation  of  the  Palestinian  question  for 
more than half a century has inflicted colossal damage 
on the very concept of justice. The denial of the right 
of the Palestinians to have a State of their own has no 
justification  on  any  moral,  political  or  legal  ground. 
Despite insistent calls of the international community, 
the  continued  expansion  of  the  illegal  settlements  on 
Palestinian  land  undermines  the  prospects  for  a  two-
State solution. 
The  case  for  peace  is  self-evident.  We  therefore 
welcome  and  strongly  support  the  talks  initiated 
between  the  parties  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
States.  The  success  of  future  efforts  mainly  depends 
on 
the 
establishment of a viable, contiguous Palestinian State. 
There is also a need for the presence of a reconciled and 
unified Palestinian front.
Israeli  Government’s  acceptance  of 
the 
That  brings  us  to  another  issue  upon  which  our 
credibility  rests  —  the  question  of  Cyprus.  Repeated 
attempts towards a peaceful settlement have ended in 
failure,  including  the  rejection  of  the  Annan  plan  in 
2004.  Turkey,  as  a  guarantor,  is  fully  and  sincerely 
committed to finding a just and negotiated settlement. 
We  therefore  expect  the  international  community  to 
urge the Greek Cypriots to reciprocate by engaging in 
result-oriented, time-framed negotiations in good faith. 
Those who must solve this question are the Turks and 
Greeks of Cyprus. They must start negotiating as soon 
as next month, with no ifs or buts. The settlement of the 
Cyprus  question  is  essential  to  a  stable  and  peaceful 
eastern Mediterranean.
conflicts 
regional 
cooperation.  We  strongly  urge  peaceful  resolution 
of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict  and  achieving 
sustainable peace in the Caucasus, based on territorial 
integrity. We have proposed a comprehensive strategy 
for  regional  economic  cooperation  and  development, 
combined with gradual withdrawal from the occupied 
territories. We believe that can serve as a solid basis for 
regional peace.
effective 
Frozen 
hinder 
Another area where regional cooperation is in high 
demand is the Balkans. In the last few years, Turkey has 
bolstered its efforts to build strong ties with all Balkan 
nations.  Our  objective  is  to  create  an  atmosphere  of 
dialogue, trust, mutual understanding and conciliation. 
We  also  have  a  dependable  interest  in  a  secure, 
prosperous  and  peaceful  Afghanistan.  Here, 
too, 
regional cooperation and ownership is a must. For that 
reason,  I  have  personally  initiated  and  led  the  efforts 
to  establish  the  Trilateral  Summit  process  among 
Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and  Turkey.  Since  2007,  it  has 
proven  a  real  success,  and  I  am  confident  that  more 
success will follow.
13-48449
19/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
Another  important  issue  that  affects  us  all  is 
terrorism. It is real, extremely dangerous, and a crime 
against humanity, and it must be defeated. We can defeat 
it only when we get rid of “my terrorist/your terrorist” 
distinctions. Effective international partnership against 
terrorism remains a key priority for Turkey.
There is yet another issue that needs our attention. 
Unfortunately, Islamophobia has become a new form of 
racism. It aims to create an abstract, imaginary enemy 
from  the  millions  of  peace-loving  Muslims  all  over 
the  world.  It  is  essential  to  strike  a  balance  between 
protecting  freedom  of  expression  and  preserving 
respect for faiths.
The  current  challenges  of  development  are 
matters  of  global  concern.  Turkey  is  now  runing 
a  comprehensive  assistance  and  direct  investment 
package  for  the  world’s  least  developed  countries. 
Humanitarian diplomacy is a key objective of Turkish 
foreign  policy.  In  fact,  Turkey  became  the  fourth-
largest  donor  last  year.  Including  the  contributions  of 
Turkish  non-governmental  organizations  in  the  fields 
of  health,  education,  and  capacity-building,  Turkey’s 
humanitarian assistance totals $2 billion per year. Our 
engagement in Somalia is an exemplary case. We have 
allocated $300 million so far.
Our approach to Africa is one of equal partnership 
and  is  best  captured  in  the  African  proverb  which 
states, “If you want to go fast, go alone. But if you want 
to go far, go together.” For Turkey, relations with Africa 
remain a key priority.
Turkey  is  a  candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat 
on  the  Security  Council  for  the  term  2015-2016.  If 
elected,  Turkey  will  bring  an  independent  voice  to 
the  Security  Council,  one  that  listens  to  all  and  tries 
to  find  comprehensive  and  lasting  solutions  through 
dialogue. We expect the support of all Members for our 
candidacy. 
I believe that the new millennium is one in which 
democracy,  rule  of  law,  respect  for  human  rights  and 
global welfare will continue to expand. I believe that an 
international peace shaped by freedom, justice, dignity, 
social  progress  and  economic  welfare  is  within  our 
reach. We must join our strength to build an enduring 
international  order  that  is  worthy  of  the  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. A stable, secure, and 
prosperous world is the best way to secure and advance 
all of our interests. Achieving such a world remains our 
fundamental responsibility to our nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Turkey for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Jonathan: On behalf of the Government 
and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I salute 
the President as he presides over the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  assure  him  of  the  full 
support  and  cooperation  of  the  Nigerian  delegation.  I 
also  wish  to  extend  our  commendation  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and to place on record Nigeria’s 
appreciation of his focused and committed leadership 
of the United Nations system.
This session comes at a particularly trying period 
when our world faces a number of critical challenges, 
which  make  it  imperative  for  us  to  work  within 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to  address  them 
meaningfully. It is therefore apt that the theme for this 
session,  “The  post-2015  development  agenda:  setting 
the  stage”,  signposts  our  desire  and  determination  to 
actively  cooperate  for  the  improvement  of  the  overall 
welfare and well-being of the most vulnerable citizens 
of the States Members of the Organization.
Nigeria  appreciates  the  consultative  nature  of 
designing  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  Earlier 
in the year, we supported this global outreach through 
inclusive  consultations  and  surveys  of  a  number  of 
Nigerians, who expressed their aspirations with respect 
to the world they expect beyond 2015. A major highlight 
of that process, which has increased national ownership 
of  the  agenda,  is  the  emphasis  on  the  eradication  of 
20/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
poverty as the overarching principle in the formulation 
of the successor framework. Tomorrow, Nigeria will host 
a side event on the implementation of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), in collaboration with the 
United Nations, a number of African countries and our 
development partners.
As  I  had  cause  to  say  before  the  Assembly  at  its 
previous session (see A/67/PV.8), the year 2015 is not 
a  destination  but  only  a  milestone  to  a  better,  safer, 
healthier  and  more  compassionate  world.  Let  us 
therefore renew our commitment to the processes that 
will develop the post-MDG framework.
That  objective  is  of  particular  resonance  to  us  in 
Africa,  where  the  challenges  of  poverty,  illiteracy, 
food insecurity and climate change continue to engage 
the  attention  of  the  political  leadership.  The  good 
news, however, is that in the past decade, a sustained 
democratization  process  across  the  continent  has 
made  significant  difference  in  governance  processes, 
institutions and structures. Today, we have a renascent 
Africa,  which  has  moved  away  from  the  era  of 
dictatorship  to  a  new  dawn,  where  the  ideals  of  good 
governance  and  an  emphasis  on  human  rights  and 
justice  are  beginning  to  drive  State-society  relations. 
This is the present reality of Africa that must replace 
the old prejudices and assumptions about the continent.
We  are  firm  in  our  conviction  that  democracy  is 
fundamental  to  achieving  the  requisite  stability  that 
will  enable  the  realization  of  a  sustainable  post-2015 
development  agenda  in  Africa.  This  emergent  Africa 
will require the continued support and partnership of the 
international community — an Africa that is no longer 
merely a destination for aid but one that is involved in 
constructive,  multi-sectoral  exchanges  on  the  global 
stage. Our continent stands ready to continue to engage 
the rest of the world as a partner in formulating a global 
development agenda that will guarantee peace, security 
and stability.
the 
I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  at  Nigeria’s 
selection  as  co-Chair  of 
Intergovernmental 
Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable  Development 
Financing.  The 
the  Committee’s 
assignment  cannot  be  overstated.  For  the  post-2015 
development agenda to be realistic, it must be backed 
by  a  robust  financing  framework,  which  I  hope  will 
receive the strong backing of the Organization’s better-
endowed Members.
importance  of 
Nigeria’s  commitment  to  sustainable  peace  and 
security  propels  the  country  to  action  along  with 
member  States  of  our  subregional  and  continental 
organizations  whenever  stability  is  threatened 
in 
our  continent.  In  recent  years,  Africa  has  had  its 
share  of  conflicts,  notably  in  Mali,  Guinea-Bissau, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo, 
the  Central 
African  Republic  and  Somalia.  It  is  noteworthy  that 
African  leaders,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community, have demonstrated the capacity to work in 
concert and decisively in pursuit of long-term solutions 
in the affected States. While a lot more still needs to 
be done, we are convinced that progress is being made.
The  recent  presidential  elections  in  Mali  herald 
a  new  beginning  that  should  translate  into  peace  and 
prosperity  for  its  people  and  provide  a  stronger  basis 
for  stability  within  the  subregion.  I  congratulate 
President  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  who  is  here  with 
us  today.  Similarly,  the  political  transition  process  in 
Guinea-Bissau  holds  much  promise.  Among  African 
leaders, there is a greater determination and focus on 
the transformation of the continent. That is the required 
impetus for the achievement of development objectives 
that will benefit the people, and rebrand the continent 
even more positively.
Although  our  world  has  not  witnessed  a  global 
war  since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations, 
there  have  been  several  conflicts  with  devastating 
consequences  and  impact  in  virtually  all  regions  of 
the world. As global citizens, we have a sacred duty to 
free our world of wars, rivalries, ethnic conflicts and 
religious divisions. Our collective effort in our drive for 
a better world will continue to bind us together.
Nigeria  continues  to  support  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  in  addressing  the  global  initiative  to 
combat the menace of the illicit trade in small arms and 
light  weapons.  We  have  redoubled  efforts  to  address 
this onerous challenge within our borders and across the 
West African subregion. In doing so, we also recognize 
the  need  for  a  broad-based  global  partnership  in  the 
ongoing  battle  against  transborder  crimes,  including 
terrorism  and  acts  of  piracy.  It  is  regrettable  that 
these  scourges  are  sustained  by  unfettered  access  by 
non-State actors to illicit small arms and light weapons, 
with which they foster insecurity and instability across 
our continent. For us in Africa, these are the weapons 
of mass destruction.
It  is  therefore  in  the  light  of  our  collective 
obligation and unceasing struggle to end this nightmare 
13-48449
21/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
that  I  congratulate  Member  States  on  the  adoption  of 
the Arms Trade Treaty in April. Our hope is that, upon 
its  entry  into  force,  the  Treaty  will  herald  an  era  of 
accountable trade in conventional arms, which is critical 
to  the  security  of  nations.  In  line  with  our  continued 
commitment  to  that  project,  Nigeria  has  signed  and 
ratified  the  Treaty.  We  will  continue  to  engage  other 
Member States for its successful implementation.
Terrorism constitutes a major threat to global peace 
and security and undermines the capacity for sustained 
development.  In  Nigeria,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in 
a  few  states  in  the  north-eastern  part  of  our  country 
has  proven  to  be  a  challenge  to  national  stability.  We 
will  spare  no  effort  in  addressing  this  menace.  We 
are therefore confronting it with every resource at our 
disposal, with due regard for fundamental human rights 
and the rule of law. Nigeria would like to place on record 
its appreciation to the international community for its 
support  in  that  regard.  The  reign  of  terror  anywhere 
in the world is an assault on our collective humanity. 
Three  days  ago,  the  stark  reality  of  that  menace  was 
again  brought  to  the  fore  by  the  dastardly  terrorist 
attack in Nairobi. We must stand together to win this 
war together.
Piracy,  like  terrorism,  is  another  menace  that  has 
attained  worrying  proportions,  especially  in  Africa’s 
coastal  waters.  At 
the  bilateral  and  multilateral 
levels,  Nigeria  has  promoted  cooperation  to  mitigate 
piracy’s  impact  on  and  consequences  for  the  security 
and  economies  of  affected  coastal  States.  Indeed,  in 
June, the leaders of the Economic Community of West 
African  States,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African  States  and  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  Commission 
met  in  Yaoundé  and  came  up  with  practical  steps  to 
collectively confront the menace of piracy in the Gulf of 
Guinea. That effort will no doubt require reinforcement 
and wider support and collaborative action on the part 
of our international partners.
The situation in the Middle East remains volatile. 
The  reported  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  the  Syrian 
crisis  is  unacceptable.  Nigeria  condemns,  in  the 
strongest possible terms, the use of chemical weapons 
prohibited by international conventions. We applaud the 
current diplomatic efforts to avert a further escalation 
of  the  crisis.  We  urge  all  parties  involved  to  end  the 
violence  and  seek  a  negotiated  solution,  including 
through the instruments of the United Nations.
The  threat  that  nuclear  weapons  pose  to  the 
survival of the human race is to be understood not just 
in the context of States that aspire to such weapons but 
also of the nations already in possession of them. It is 
our  collective  responsibility  to  urge  the  international 
community to respond to the clarion call for a peaceful 
universe  in  an  age  of  uncertainty.  We  can  attain  that 
objective  if  we  adopt  measures  and  policies  that 
promote  nuclear  disarmament,  protect  and  renew  our 
environment and push towards an international system 
that is based on trust, mutual respect and shared goals.
The President returned to the Chair.
I believe that I express the concern of many when 
I bring up the slow pace of effort and apparent lack of 
progress in the reform of the United Nations, especially 
the Security Council. We believe strongly that the call 
for  democratization  worldwide  should  apply  not  only 
to  States  but  also  to  international  organizations  such 
as  the  United  Nations.  That  is  why  we  call  for  the 
Council’s  democratization.  It  is  desirable  in  order  to 
enshrine justice, equity and fairness and to promote a 
sense of inclusiveness and balance in our world.
Our support for the Security Council in its primary 
responsibility — the maintenance of international peace 
and security — has been total and unwavering. In our 
previous membership of the Council we demonstrated 
both the political will and the capacity to engage in key 
Council responsibilities. Nigeria has therefore decided 
to seek election to a non-permanent seat on the Security 
Council  for  the  period  2014  to  2015,  for  which  I  am 
pleased to be able to say we have been endorsed by the 
Economic Community of West African States and the 
African Union. We urge the Assembly to endorse our 
candidature.
Our world continues to be confronted by pressing 
problems  and  threats.  No  statement  made  during  this 
session  can  encompass  the  extent  of  those  problems. 
The  world  looks  to  us,  as  leaders,  to  provide  hope  in 
the midst of crisis, to offer guidance through difficult 
sociopolitical  divisions  and  to  ensure  that  we  live  in 
a  better  world.  We  have  obligations  to  the  current 
generation,  but  we  have  a  greater  obligation  to  those 
yet  unborn,  who  should  one  day  be  able  to  inherit  a 
world of sufficiency, irrespective of the circumstances 
of their birth or where they stand on the globe. We must 
work to make that world a reality in recognition of our 
common heritage. We must strive to eradicate poverty, 
hunger, disease and human misery; we must eliminate 
the scourge of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare, 
as  well  as  that  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  We 
must dedicate ourselves to working together to address 
22/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
global, regional and national challenges and to deliver a 
more peaceful, equitable and prosperous world for all. 
It is our duty. We must not fail.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, 
President of the Republic of Chile 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chile.
Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, President of the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, President 
of the Republic of Chile, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Piñera Echeñique (spoke in Spanish): I 
should first like to congratulate you, Sir, an outstanding 
public servant from our region, on his recent election 
to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also 
like to express my heartfelt solidarity with the people 
and Government of Mexico in the wake of the storms 
that  have  seriously  affected  their  country,  and  with 
the  people  and  Government  of  Kenya,  after  the  acts 
of  terrorism  that  have  had  such  a  terrible  impact.  I 
would also like to emphasize that during this period of 
meetings, Heads of State and Government from almost 
all  corners  of  the  planet  will  have  the  opportunity  to 
exchange views, share experiences and, most important, 
generate the momentum essential to building together a 
future commensurate with the ideals, dreams and hopes 
of the men and women represented here.
The  fundamental  inspiration  behind  the  founding 
of the United Nations, almost seven decades ago, was 
the desire to be able to depend on a place designed to 
bring into harmony the actions of every nation aimed 
at attaining peace and development, a place where all 
individuals, nations and peoples of the world — whatever 
flag they pledge to honour, whatever god they worship 
and whatever ideas they embrace — can feel part of one 
big family, the human family.
That  requires  many  things  of  us,  but  none  so 
important  as  holding  an  open,  free  and  respectful 
dialogue  among  ourselves,  a  dialogue  that,  far  from 
fearing dissent, values it and is nourished by it, because 
it understands that only when the various nations and 
cultures join forces will we also see our opportunities 
expand.
We are living in a world that is very different from 
the one that witnessed the birth of the Organization and 
of  other  agencies  such  as  the  International  Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank after the end of the Second 
World War. This new world is not the result of war or 
of  the  ideological  struggles  waged  during  the  second 
half of the twentieth century; rather, it is the child of 
a  revolution  in  knowledge,  science,  technology  and 
information  that  has  been  taking  place  for  some  time 
and  that  is  now  knocking  at  our  doors  and  creating 
opportunities  for  material  and  spiritual  progress  for 
millions of men and women around the world that many 
of us could not have imagined even a few decades ago. 
This  new  world  is  no  longer  divided  by  walls  or  iron 
curtains, but is connected and integrated by the bridges 
of increasing globalization and the massive exchange of 
goods, services, capital and people. 
In  this  new  world  we  certainly  face  dangers, 
challenges and opportunities that are also new, and which 
in many cases transcend the borders and jurisdictions 
of  individual  countries,  demanding  to  be  tackled  by 
distinguishing where the responsibility of some people 
ends  and  where  the  responsibility  of  others  begins. 
Such  challenges  and  problems  can  be  successfully 
dealt with only by harnessing the force of the unity of 
all  and  the  responsibility  of  each.  However,  although 
we  know  we  are  living  in  a  world  that  is  undergoing 
enormous  transformations,  many  of  our  international 
organizations  often  seem  resistant  to  the  change  that 
such an evolution demands, allowing themselves to fall 
behind instead of leading the process.
Article  1  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
states  that  the  principal  purposes  of  the  Organization 
include  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security, 
to  develop  friendly  relations  among  nations  and  to 
promote  international  cooperation  in  the  economic, 
social,  cultural  and  humanitarian  spheres,  as  well  as 
respect for human rights and the permanent protection 
of human freedoms without distinction as to race, sex, 
language or religion. But let us be clear. None of those 
desires is exclusive to one nation, one era or one specific 
organization: they all emanate from the depths of our 
13-48449
23/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
souls and of each human heart. For that reason, we are 
not  here  only  to  proclaim  their  value  and  existence 
but  to  ensure  their  enforcement  and  application.  We 
therefore appeal not for those values to be changed or, 
still less, to be forgotten. Quite the contrary: we appeal 
for the will and the courage to put them into practice. 
In order to do so, we must perfect our democracies and 
strengthen  grassroots  participation,  but  we  must  also 
modernize  our  regional  and  global  organizations.  In 
that task, as we all know, there is a long road ahead of 
us.
A  good  first  step  in  that  direction  is  to  move 
towards  real  and  far-reaching  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  the  enlargement  of  its  permanent 
and  non-permanent  membership  to  ensure  proper 
regional  representation,  as  well  as  to  strengthen  its 
transparency.  working  methods  and  decision-making, 
all aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and legitimacy 
of its activities.
In  that  regard,  Chile,  which  was  present  at  the 
creation  of  the  Organization  in  1945,  supports  the 
inclusion  of  Brazil,  Germany,  Japan  and  India  as 
permanent members of the Security Council, as well as 
the  African  continent’s  request  for  fair  representation 
in the Organization. And we join in the appeals to the 
five  countries  with  the  right  of  veto  to  refrain  from 
exercising  that  right  in  situations  of  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes,  genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing, 
since  the  use  of  the  veto  in  such  cases  prevents  or 
undermines the Council’s efforts to effectively defend 
the most fundamental values that enable humankine to 
advance. 
However,  Security  Council  reform  is  not  limited 
to changes in its membership and organization. It also 
means  abandoning  the  logic  of  vetoes  and  replacing 
it  by  a  logic  of  special  quorums,  so  that  the  most 
important decisions concerning international security, 
which inevitably affect all countries sooner or later, can 
be adopted in a way that is truly representative of the 
community of nations that make up the United Nations. 
In  the  end,  if  we  advocate  democracy,  dialogue  and 
participation  when  we  govern  our  own  countries,  we 
should  advocate  for  those  same  principles  when  we 
address the form in which the United Nations governs 
itself. 
I should like to take this opportunity also to express 
my  gratitude  for  the  many  expressions  of  support  for 
Chile’s  candidacy  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security Council in the next two years and to reaffirm 
our strongest commitment to the principles and values 
that have for decades governed and guided our foreign 
policy.  I  mention  in  particular  our  full,  unconditional 
respect  for  international  law,  the  inviolability  of 
treaties,  legal  equality  among  States,  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  the  self-determination 
of  peoples  —  all  values  that  provide  the  essential 
foundation  for  international  stability  and  peaceful 
coexistence  among  nations.  In  our  opinion,  however, 
those values should be complemented by the principle 
or notion of the responsibility to protect. That concept 
holds that it is the primary duty of each State to protect 
the population within its borders. And if a State cannot 
or does not want to comply with that primary duty, then 
the international community can and should intervene 
on  the  basis  of  three  universally  recognized  pillars, 
namely,  prevention,  support  and  the  proportional  use 
of force in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations,  but  only  as  a  last  resort  and  when  strictly 
essential  to  prevent,  avoid  or  deter  genocide,  war 
crimes, ethnic cleansing or crimes against humanity.
In  addition,  my  country  once  again  reaffirms  its 
strongest commitment to democracy and respect for the 
human  rights  of  all  persons,  from  their  conception  to 
their  natural  death,  at  all  times  and  in  all  places  and 
all circumstances, as well as our ongoing endorsement 
of  multilateralism,  of  a  regionalism  that  is  open  to 
the  world,  and  of  fair  and  constructive  economic 
competition among all countries. 
In that regard, we reiterate our appeal not only to 
end  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  arms  and  weapons  of 
mass destruction but also to dismantle those that already 
exist.  We  strongly  condemn  the  use  of  the  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria,  as  well  as  the  indiscriminate  use 
of  force  against  the  civilian  population,  which  has  to 
date  produced  tens  of  thousands  of  innocent  victims, 
including  women  and  children,  and  has  caused  a 
serious  humanitarian  crisis  that  represents  a  wound 
to  our  universal  conscience  and  seriously  threatens 
international peace and security. 
We  therefore  welcome  and  strongly  support  the 
framework  agreement  for  the  elimination  of  chemical 
weapons  in  Syria,  concluded  recently  by  the  United 
States  and  Russia,  as  well  as  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Joint  Special  Envoy  of  the 
United Nations and the League of Arab States to reach 
a peaceful and lasting solution to this prolonged armed 
conflict as soon as possible.
24/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
Similarly,  Chile  has  always  defended  and  will 
continue  to  defend  the  cause  and  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people to have a full, free and democratic 
State  —  a  State  that,  like  the  State  of  Israel,  enjoys 
agreed,  recognized  and  secure  borders  with  all  its 
neighbours, allowing its inhabitants to live and develop 
in stable and lasting peace and security. We therefore 
recognized  Palestine  as  an  observer  member  of  the 
United Nations and hope very soon to welcome it as a 
full Member of the Organization.
With  regard 
to  regional  matters, 
in  March 
2012,  Chile  ratified  the  Protocol  on  Commitment  to 
Democracy,  adopted  by  the  member  countries  of  the 
Union of South American Nations, and we hope that it 
will enter into force as soon as possible. In addition, we 
have reiterated our commitment to the Inter-American 
Democratic  Charter  and  shall  work  tirelessly  for  the 
cause  of  democracy,  freedom  and  the  full  respect  for 
human rights in all the countries on our continent and 
throughout the entire world.
Chile has also assumed the presidency pro tempore 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States and hosted the first summit of its 33 members, 
at which we signed the Santiago Declaration, in which 
the entire region stated its commitment to democratic 
values  and  respect  for  human  rights.  In  addition,  we 
headed  the  first  joint  summit  of  the  Heads  of  State 
and Government of Latin America, the Caribbean and 
Europe, at which nations on both sides of the Atlantic 
Ocean undertook to promote sustainable development 
policies in order to encourage high quality investments 
of both social and environmental value.
In the social sphere, although two years still remain 
before the deadline set at the Millennium Summit, we 
can  announce  with  great  satisfaction  that  Chile  has 
attained  practically  all  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  set  by  the  Organization  in  2000.  We 
are  nevertheless  redoubling  our  efforts  to  attain  the 
remaining goals by 2015, and working to ensure that the 
countries that have requested our help can also achieve 
them. We are also participating actively in the efforts at 
the United Nations to define a new global sustainable 
development  agenda  beyond  2015  that  follows  on  the 
MDGs  and  establishes  specific,  measurable,  bold 
and  feasible  responsibilities,  both  for  developing  and 
developed  nations,  with  special  attention  being  given 
to  ensuring  that  economic  development  is  compatible 
with  social  development  and  the  protection  of  the 
environment.
In addition, Chile, together with Mexico, Colombia 
and Peru, took part in co-founding the Pacific Alliance, 
one of the most far-reaching integration initiatives in our 
region, designed to promote an area for the free flow of 
not only of goods, services and capital but also of persons, 
thus allowing higher growth rates and development and 
greater opportunities for our countries and peoples. We 
are  delighted  to  see  that  the  Pacific  Alliance,  which 
represents a population of over 210 million, one third 
of  Latin  America’s  gross  domestic  product  and  more 
than  half  of  its  foreign  trade,  has,  despite  its  recent 
emergence, already achieved significant results and is 
increasingly attracting the interest of the international 
community,  which  can  be  seen  in  the  fact  that  it  has 
attracted  more  than  20  observer  countries,  including 
Australia, Canada, China, Spain, the United States and 
Japan.
Lastly, I should like to mention the recent approval 
by the National Congress of my country of legislation 
submitted by the Government that abolishes tariffs on 
imports from the least developed countries, as defined by 
the United Nations. That is an important demonstration 
of the Chilean people’s solidarity with and commitment 
to  the  development  of  almost  50  countries  in  Africa, 
Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean.
A  few  days  ago,  Chileans  marked  the  fortieth 
anniversary  of  the  most  far-reaching  and  lasting 
upheaval  ever  to  affect  our  democracy  in  our  two 
centuries  of  independent  life  and  which  ushered  in  a 
period characterized by hatred, division and exclusion 
not only in Chile but also in a world torn apart by the 
Cold War. However, in a few days’ time, on 5 October, 
we shall be marking another anniversary in Chile — the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  start  of  the  peaceful 
recovery  of  our  democracy  by  the  free  and  sovereign 
will of a vast majority of Chileans, which has allowed 
us  to  recover  our  democracy  in  a  wise  and  peaceful 
manner and with the advice and consent of all sectors 
of our country. From both experiences, Chileans have 
learned  lessons  that  I  should  like  to  share  with  the 
Assembly today because I humbly believe that they can 
shed light on how to resolve conflicts that are negatively 
affecting other nations of the world today.
The  first  lesson  is  that  we  must  acknowledge 
without reservations of any kind that even in extreme 
situations, including external or internal warfare, there 
are moral and legal rules that must be respected by all 
and  that  can  never  be  ignored  without  falling  into  a 
serious and unacceptable moral vacuum. Among those 
13-48449
25/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
rules, there is the strict respect for the human rights of 
all, in every time and place, under all circumstances. 
The second lesson is that the values of democracy, 
peace  and  civil  amity  are  much  more  fragile  than  we 
usually  think,  so  we  cannot,  and  should  never,  take 
them  for  granted.  They  are  somewhat  like  a  tree  that 
needs to be watered every day in order not to wither and 
dry up. Such care must be provided not only in deeds 
but also in words, gestures and formal actions, because 
all  of  them  can  and  must  be  placed  at  the  service  of 
truth, justice, reconciliation and peace. 
The  third  lesson  is  that  there  is  a  very  close 
relationship among the quality of democracy, economic 
progress and social justice, since all of them are mutually 
reinforcing and since the decline of one of them would 
sooner  or  later  have  an  adverse  effect  weakening  the 
others. Our task, therefore, is not only to strengthen our 
democratic  institutions  but  also  to  promote  economic 
and  social  policies  based  on  freedom,  responsibility, 
justice,  equality  of  opportunity  and  the  fight  against 
poverty, and based on uniting the forces of both private 
and  public  initiative  and  respect  for  fundamental 
rights,  because  such  policies  are  the  main  engines  of 
development of our nations and peoples.
The fourth lesson that we have learned in our country 
is  that  the  past  is  over.  We  can  discuss  it,  interpret  it 
and, of course, remember it, but we cannot change it, 
and therefore we have no right to remain prisoner to it, 
because when the present is anchored in the past, the 
only  thing  we  lose  is  the  future.  For  that  reason,  our 
generation, which is celebrating the bicentennial of our 
country, has no right to bequeath to future generations 
the same hatreds, quarrels and divisions that caused so 
much harm and suffering 40 years ago. The challenge, 
then, is not to forget but to overcome the past with a new, 
positive and hopeful outlook, trying to learn from past 
experience in order to avoid making the same mistakes 
and letting it illuminate the way to the future, and to 
face  with  greater  resolve  and  efficiency  the  problems 
and opportunities of the present and the future.
Those and other lessons painfully learned by Chile 
enabled us to recover our democracy peacefully and to 
move  forward  over  the  past  25  years  on  the  paths  of 
truth,  justice  and  reconciliation  among  all  Chileans. 
But that was an old transition, one that, I believe, we 
accomplished  successfully.  Today  we  Chileans  are 
facing  another  transition.  This  is  a  new,  young  and 
forward-looking transition that, before the end of this 
decade,  will  allow  us  to  turn  Chile  into  a  developed 
country  that  overcame  poverty  and  became  fully 
integrated  into  the  community  of  democratic  and 
developed nations. Those are the commitments that the 
Government that I have the honour to lead made to all 
Chileans almost four years ago. We are deeply gratified 
to  observe  the  solid  and  sustained  progress  of  Chile 
towards their fulfilment.
Despite  the  devastating  earthquake  and  tsunami 
that  struck  us  in  2010  —  at  the  time,  the  fifth  most 
serious in the known history of humankind — and the 
global  economic  crisis  that  began  in  2008  and  is  not 
over, Chile has resumed its leadership, momentum and 
ability to create jobs and strong growth. For example, 
our per capita gross domestic product, which four years 
ago was about $15,000, now stands at $20,000. Poverty 
and inequality are declining and real wages are rising 
rapidly. All indicators show that in key spheres such as 
quality education and health, we are making progress in 
the right direction, further stimulating innovation and 
entrepreneurship and better protecting our consumers, 
workers and the environment. 
At the same time, we have rebuilt virtually 90 per 
cent  of  everything  destroyed  by  the  earthquake  and 
tsunami.  Obviously,  our  Government  is  very  proud 
of  the  contribution  that  its  policies  have  made  to 
the  attainment  of  those  goals.  But  we  have  no  doubt 
that  most  of  the  credit  goes  to  all  Chileans,  men  and 
women,  who  have  made  enormous  contributions  to 
arrive  at  this  point.  If  there  is  something  that  we 
in  Chile  have  learned  it  is  that  in  order  to  be  able  to 
grow and to reduce poverty and excessive inequalities, 
nothing works better than to rely on the skills of people 
themselves, expanding their freedoms and unleashing 
the  forces  of  imagination,  creativity,  innovation  and 
entrepreneurship  that  lie  within  the  hearts  of  each  of 
my compatriots and also — I am sure — the hearts of 
every man and woman around the world.
Those are some thoughts and lessons that I, both as 
President of Chile and as a citizen of the world — wanted 
to  share  with  Heads  of  State  and  Government.  Those 
are the lessons and thoughts of a country that may be 
small  on  the  international  stage  and  remotely  located 
on  the  world  map,  but  that  today  enjoys  a  stable  and 
consolidated democracy, broad and guaranteed public 
freedoms  and  an  economic  system  that,  after  two 
centuries  of  republican  life,  has  finally  brought  us  to 
the threshold of development.
26/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chile 
for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rossen  Plevneliev, 
President of the Republic of Bulgaria. 
Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Plevneviev:  I  am  truly  honoured  to 
address this forum. Let me convey my congratulations 
to you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. Bulgaria welcomes 
the theme you have selected as timely and relevant and 
wishes you every success. 
A 16 year-old Bulgarian boy, writing a school report 
on the Millennium Development Goals, compared the 
world’s  development  model  to  a  colourful  carpet  in 
which some colours, threads and stitches were missing, 
making it look unfinished, patchy and ragged. Indeed, 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  resembles  an  unfinished  work.  Undoubtedly,  a 
lot has been achieved in the global fight against poverty 
and underdevelopment, but progress has been unsteady 
and limited. 
Nowadays  it  is  hard  to  accept  that  more  than 
1  billion  people  still  suffer  from  extreme  poverty 
and  malnutrition  and  that  basic  health  services  for 
many  women  and  babies  remain  a  remote  luxury. 
Disparities  in  wealth  distribution,  quality  of  life  and 
personal  opportunities  have  become  more  extreme 
across  the  globe.  Climate  change  and  environmental 
degradation  have  reached  an  alarming  level  and 
require our urgent collective response. The well-being 
of  future  generations  is  at  risk  due  to  the  irrational 
management of natural resources. Despite our efforts, 
wars and armed conflicts continue to rage in different 
regions and cause thousands of deaths and are leading 
to  humanitarian  crises  and  human  suffering.  We  also 
continue  to  witness  violations  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.
The situation in Syria continues to be a major cause 
of  concern  and  a  risk  to  regional  and  global  security. 
Bulgaria  strongly  condemns  the  chemical  attack  on 
21 August, which took the lives of thousands of innocent 
people, including many children. The use of chemical 
weapons  in  Syria  constitutes  a  blatant  violation  of 
international  law,  a  war  crime  and  a  crime  against 
humanity. There is strong evidence to substantiate the 
assertion that the Syrian regime is responsible for those 
attacks, as it is the only party that possesses chemical 
agents, weapons and the means of their delivery for an 
attack of that scale.
There can be no impunity, and the perpetrators of 
that heinous attack must be held accountable. Bulgaria, 
which is one of the signatory countries of a letter urging 
the Security Council to immediately refer the situation 
in Syria to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal 
Court,  joins  similar  calls  coming  from  the  Secretary-
General and the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights.
My  country  welcomes  the  framework  agreement 
between the United States and the Russian Federation 
to  place  Syria’s  chemical  weapons  arsenal  under 
international  control  with  a  view  to  its  swift  and 
secure  destruction,  and  joins  them  in  demanding  that 
the  Syrian  regime  provide  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  with  immediate 
access to inspect any and all sites in Syria. We call on 
the Security Council to unite and shoulder its relevant 
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, 
including Chapter VII.
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  should  not  divert 
attention from the persistent gross violations of human 
rights and continued human suffering. The momentum 
created  should  be  used  to  move  towards  a  lasting 
political solution to the conflict through the resumption 
of the Geneva process, with the active involvement of 
the United Nations.
The  worsening  humanitarian  crisis  requires  joint 
coordinated  action  to  alleviate  the  suffering  and  help 
those  in  need.  Bulgaria  has  provided  humanitarian 
assistance to ease the plight of refugees in neighbouring 
countries. Situated not far from the region, my country 
13-48449
27/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
is  also  affected  by  the  daily  influx  of  refugees  from 
Syria. Despite its financial constraints, the Government 
has  adopted  an  emergency  plan  and  has  provided 
additional  resources  in  order  to  guarantee  adequate 
assistance,  accommodation  and  services  to  Syrian 
refugees. We count on the assistance and help provided 
by  our  partners  and  the  humanitarian  bodies  of  the 
United Nations system.
We expect that Iran will demonstrate clear political 
will  and  address  the  concerns  of  the  international 
community  by  providing  credible  evidence  of  the 
peaceful  nature  of  its  nuclear  programme.  In  that 
respect,  Iran’s  full  cooperation  with  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency is of paramount importance. The 
Government in Tehran must show greater transparency 
in its nuclear activities and should fully comply with all 
the relevant Security Council resolutions.
Bulgaria welcomes the successful adoption of the 
Arms Trade Treaty to regulate the international trade in 
conventional weapons, and looks forward to its prompt 
entry into force.
My  country  is  encouraged  by  the  resumption  of 
the  direct  peace  talks  between  the  Government  of 
Israel and the Palestinian Authority at the initiative of 
Secretary Kerry, the Quartet and the parties concerned. 
We expect both sides to demonstrate perseverance and 
commitment  to  a  peaceful  solution,  to  respect  each 
other’s legitimate interests and to refrain from unilateral 
actions that could undermine the process. Negotiations 
are  the  best  way  forward  towards  the  ultimate  goal, 
namely, a just, comprehensive and lasting solution on 
the basis of the two-State formula.
Bulgaria  welcomes  the  appointment  of  former 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  Nickolay  Mladenov  as 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
the Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for 
Iraq. His mission in Iraq is an important contribution 
to  the  peacebuilding  and  restoration  process  in  that 
friendly country and to the stability of the region as a 
whole.
Bulgaria  condemns  terrorism  as  one  of  the  most 
horrific crimes and challenging threats to international 
peace and security. Terrorism has no face, no name, no 
colour and no religion. It strikes unexpectedly and scars 
the  lives  of  everyone  it  touches.  Recently,  terrorism 
struck  again  in  Nairobi.  On  behalf  of  Bulgaria,  I 
convey my deepest condolences to the people and the 
Government of Kenya, but also Iraq, Pakistan and other 
countries where deadly terrorist attacks have occurred.
On  18  July  2012,  a  terrorist  attack  claimed  six 
innocent  lives  at  a  Bulgarian  airport.  That  incident 
changed  Bulgaria  forever  and  is  a  reminder  that  the 
fight  against  terrorism  is  a  common  cause,  on  which 
the entire international community must remain united. 
We  believe  that  the  perpetrator  of  that  horrendous 
terrorist act will be brought to justice soon. Bulgaria is 
grateful for the moral support, solidarity and practical 
assistance of other Member States in the investigation 
of that horrific crime. The critical role of international 
cooperation  in  this  area  once  again  points  to  the 
necessity of a prompt finalization of the negotiations on 
a draft comprehensive convention to combat terrorism.
Let us take a look at what Europe has achieved in 
the past century. From a continent in ruins, torn apart 
by wars, we, Europeans, have created an area of peace, 
security and prosperity. Enemies have become friends 
and allies, united for a better future for their children. 
Today,  in  the  European  Union,  we  have  harmonized 
regulations and share a single market, all underpinned 
by our common values.
The past 25 years in the history of the Balkans are 
another  great  example  of  what  can  be  achieved  when 
neighbours  work  together  towards  a  common  goal. 
Building  trust,  good  neighbourly  relations,  stability 
and security in South-Eastern Europe and in the Black 
Sea region is among Bulgaria’s priorities. My country 
remains  strongly  committed  and  will  continue  to 
support  the  efforts  of  our  partners  from  the  Western 
Balkans  to  meet  the  European  Union  membership 
criteria  and  take  their  legitimate  place  in  the  united 
European family.
The European Neighbourhood Policy remains one 
of the most efficient instruments of the European Union 
to  deepen  cooperation  and  ensure  peace  and  stability 
in  the  broader  region.  Bulgaria  attaches  particular 
importance  to  the  Eastern  dimension  of  the  Policy 
to  enhance  relations  with  countries  of  the  Black  Sea 
region and members of the Eastern Partnership.
If  common  borders  and  geographical  proximity 
make  us  neighbours,  shared  cultural  heritage  is  what 
makes  us  a  family.  This  year  we,  the  Slavic  nations, 
celebrate together the one thousandth one hundred and 
fiftieth anniversary of the mission of the holy brothers 
Cyril  and  Methodius 
to  Great  Moravia.  Almost 
12 centuries ago, they bestowed upon us the invaluable 
28/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
gift of the first Slavic alphabet. Bulgaria welcomed the 
disciples  Saint  Cyril  and  Methodius  and  adopted  the 
Cyrillic  script,  which  has  helped  us  to  preserve  our 
national identity over the centuries.
This  year  the  international  community  marks 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Vienna  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  on  human  rights.  On  this 
occasion, Bulgaria would like to emphasize its strong 
conviction  that  human  rights  should  remain  one  of 
the  foremost  priorities  for  the  United  Nations.  As  a 
candidate for membership in the Human Rights Council 
for  the  period  2019-2021,  Bulgaria  will  intensify  its 
efforts in promoting the highest human rights standards 
both domestically and internationally. 
the  Realization  of 
We  welcome  the  convening  of  the  High-level 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  Other  Internationally  Agreed 
Development  Goals  for  Persons  with  Disabilities.  As 
a  party  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons 
with Disabilities and as a member of the bureau of the 
Conference of States Parties to the Convention in New 
York,  my  country  is  strongly  engaged  in  promoting 
the  comprehensive  and  consistent  implementation  of 
the  Convention  at  all  levels,  including  by  engaging 
disabled people’s organizations as an important partner 
in disability-inclusive development.
My  country  is  convinced  that  the  course  of 
reforms  of  the  United  Nations  should  continue  in 
order to enhance the efficiency, representativeness and 
transparency  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  To 
meet the needs of a changing world, the United Nations 
should continuously adapt and improve. That includes 
a 
revitalized  General  Assembly,  a  strengthened 
Economic and Social Council and a Security Council 
that reflects contemporary realities. As member of the 
Eastern European regional group, Bulgaria continues to 
hold its position as to the need for allotting at least one 
additional non-permanent seat in an enlarged Security 
Council  to  the  group,  given  the  fact  that,  in  the  past 
20 years, its membership has more than doubled.
Based  on  our  long-standing  engagement  with  the 
principles  and  values  of  the  United  Nations,  I  pledge 
that Bulgaria will be a responsible and reliable partner 
should it be elected as a Security Council non-permanent 
member  for  the  term  2018-2019.  We  hope  that  the 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  will  entrust  Bulgaria 
with that responsibility, and we stand ready to shoulder 
it in a spirit of partnership.
We  are  still  a  long  way  from  the  future  we 
want.  The  Rio  de  Janeiro  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  outlined  a  comprehensive  agenda  for 
further work to be completed in the three dimensions of 
sustainable development. The recently published report 
of the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-
2015 Development Agenda presents key proposals for 
transformative shifts and a global, people-centred and 
planet-sensitive  agenda.  Bulgaria  is  actively  engaged 
in  the  negotiation  process  on  the  new  sustainable 
development goals, with a view to achieving a post-2015 
framework that is human rights-driven, builds upon the 
achievements  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  integrates  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable 
development in a single and coherent process.
The  new  universal  and  legally  binding  climate 
agreement  to  be  signed  in  2015  should  reinforce  the 
overarching  post-2015  development  agenda  and  speed 
up  the  international  community’s  efforts  to  introduce 
new sustainable models for growth.
Culture  and  education  should  be  accorded  their 
rightful place in the post-2015 development agenda. In 
that  regard,  UNESCO’s  role  is  of  pivotal  importance.  
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Bulgaria’s 
strong support for the re-election of Ms. Irina Bokova 
to a second term as Director-General.
I would like also to express Bulgaria’s admiration 
for  the  work  done  by  UNICEF  in  the  service  of  the 
children  of  the  world.  Bulgaria  highly  values  the 
partnership and policy advice provided by the UNICEF 
Office  in  Sofia  and  others  worldwide  in  modernizing 
the national child-protection sector and achieving more 
equitable and inclusive child care.
Today  we  are  building  the  world  of  tomorrow. 
Young  people  should  be  at  the  heart  of  those  efforts 
as active participants, not as bystanders. For Bulgaria, 
young  people  are  key  stakeholders  in  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
This  year  Bulgaria  commemorates  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the rescue of Bulgarian Jews from the 
death  camps  during  the  Second  World  War,  a  unique 
achievement of Bulgarian civil society. Unfortunately, 
our  country  was  in  a  situation  where  it  could  not  do 
the  same  for  Jews  from  northern  Greece  and  parts  of 
Yugoslavia. We deeply mourn their loss as well as that 
of all the victims of the Holocaust.
Recently, citizens from different parts of the world, 
Bulgaria  included,  have  engaged  actively  in  public 
13-48449
29/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
life,  demanding  greater  transparency,  accountability, 
decency and integrity from their politicians. We in my 
country believe that this renewed energy on the part of 
civil society deserves to be encouraged and supported. 
I firmly believe that safeguarding human dignity is the 
ultimate goal of the United Nations, as, indeed, of any 
genuine democracy.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Bulgaria 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Rossen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Mozambique.
Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Mozambique,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President Guebuza (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  always  a  great 
honour  for  me  to  address  this  magnificent  House, 
symbol of equality among States and an irreplaceable 
forum  of  multilateralism 
that  seeks  sustainable 
solutions to the growing global challenges.
I join those who spoke before us in congratulating 
you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the 
General Assembly at this session. We believe that your 
vast  experience  and  knowledge  will  contribute  to  the 
success of our work. We would like to assure you of our 
support so as to ensure that your mandate is crowned 
with success.
We  also  congratulate  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Vuk 
Jeremić,  for  a  job  well  done  during  the  sixty-seventh 
session, which resulted in the reaffirmation of the role 
of the United Nations as an indispensable multilateral 
forum.
We  are  shocked  by  the  sad  news  from  Kenya 
regarding the killing, in an act of terrorism, of innocent 
citizens at a shopping mall. We would like to convey our 
solidarity to the people and the Government of Kenya 
and to all those who lost their loved ones in the tragedy. 
Mr. President, we commend you for your wise and 
opportune  choice  of  the  theme  of  this  session,  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”, 
based  on  the  goal  of  creating  a  better  world  for  us 
all.  That  agenda,  like  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  should  be  based  on  principles  such 
as  inclusiveness  in  its  approach;  national  ownership, 
within  the  context  of  its  sustainability;  and  shared 
responsibility  among  development  partners  for  its 
implementation.
The  theme  of  this  session  is  the  logical  outcome 
of  the  decisions  emanating  from  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  which 
galvanized  the  ongoing  preparatory  process  for  the 
development agenda that will follow the MDGs and is 
based on a multidimensional approach to development.
In  carrying  out  that  agenda,  it  is  important  that 
we  eradicate,  from  both  our  vocabulary  and  our 
attitude,  the  dichotomy  by  which  an  attempt  is  made 
to  group  the  members  of  the  United  Nations  family, 
which is all of us, into two categories — the generous 
and  the  deprived  —  because  in  this  partnership  each 
complements  the  other  with  one’s  natural  and  human 
blessings.  Those  that  do  not  contribute  financially 
contribute in kind.
In that context, the inability of a State to meet its 
development  targets  as  conceived  and  agreed  upon  in 
this great House represents a collective failure on the 
part  of  the  entire  international  community,  because 
such targets are the shared responsibility of all States. 
Otherwise, why would we set international targets that 
are later incorporated into national agendas if they are 
not to be met?
On  that  basis,  we  reiterate  our  appeal  for  the 
commitments made to be honoured within the context 
of the MDGs, because promises must be kept and we 
must  not  fail  to  meet  the  expectations  that  we  have 
created.
We  would  like  in  particular  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  initiative  in  creating  the 
High-level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-2015 
Development  Agenda.  The  valuable  conclusions  and 
recommendations contained in the report of the Panel 
constitute  an  important  reference  in  the  formulation 
30/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
and  negotiation  of  the  development  agenda  that  is  to 
follow the MDGs.
Mozambique  had  the  privilege  of  being  part  of 
the  group  of  countries  chosen  to  carry  out  a  national 
consultation on the post-2015 development agenda. The 
trust shown in Mozambican civil society to drive that 
process  must  be  commended  because  it  strengthened 
the  principle  of  national  ownership  of  the  process.  It 
also  created  the  conditions  for  Mozambican  social 
actors  to  demonstrate  their  growing  vitality,  which  is 
in  itself  a  true  reflection  of  the  consolidation  of  the 
processes  of  democratic  and  inclusive  governance  in 
our country.
our 
democratic 
institutions 
Indeed,  we  have  been  furthering  our  democracy, 
reinforcing 
and 
consolidating  our  democratic  practices.  We  do  so 
through 
transparency,  dialogue  and  participation, 
instilling  respect  for  the  Constitution  and  broadening 
inclusiveness  to  encourage  more  Mozambicans  to 
become involved in the fight against poverty. An open 
and inclusive presidency and a governance mechanism 
replicated at other levels lead us, on the one hand, to 
interact  in  a  direct  and  comprehensive  way  with  our 
people in the places where they live and fight against 
poverty  and,  on  the  other  hand,  places  our  governing 
method under the scrutiny of the people.
It is in the context of our commitment to democratic 
principles and values and to abiding by the legal tenets 
of our Constitution and laws that, on 20 November, we 
will hold municipal elections for the fourth time and, 
in 2014, our fifth general and multiparty elections. The 
implementation  of  this  electoral  cycle  is  the  pinnacle 
of  the  exercise  of  freedom  of  choice  and  of  citizens’ 
political participation in the democratic process.
to 
In 
the  context  of  our  commitment 
the 
disarmament  agenda  —  an 
issue  of  paramount 
importance  in  promoting  peace  and  fighting  poverty 
in  Mozambique  —  and  as  a  way  for  us  to  associate 
ourselves  with  the  cause  of  international  peace  and 
security, we will host, from 29 June to 4 July 2014, the 
Third  International  Review  Conference  of  the  States 
Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, 
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel 
Mines and on Their Destruction. We invite all Member 
States,  observers  and  international  and  civil  society 
organizations to participate in the Conference.
In August, Mozambique successfully concluded its 
mandate as Chair of the Southern African Development 
Community  (SADC).  Given  its  relevance  to  our 
theme,  we  would  point  out  that,  over  the  course  of  a 
year  and  in  close  collaboration  with  other  member 
States, the Africa Union, the United Nations and other 
international  partners,  we  engaged  in  galvanizing  the 
process  of  regional  integration  and  in  seeking  peace 
and stability for the region.
We  reiterate  our  congratulations  to  Zimbabwe 
on  holding  successful  elections,  whose  results  were 
validated  by  the  country’s  institutions  and  endorsed 
by  SADC  and  the  African  Union.  All  the  conditions 
have now been met for the sanctions imposed on that 
country to be lifted in order to allow for Zimbabwe’s 
development and full participation in the global agenda. 
The stability of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  the  Congo  continues  to  be  a  challenge  for  our 
region. We would like, once again, to congratulate the 
Secretary-General  for  his  efforts  —  in  conjunction 
with SADC, the International Conference on the Great 
Lakes Region and the African Union — which resulted 
in the signing of the Peace, Security and Cooperation 
Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  the  Region  and  in  the  appointment  of  President 
Mary Robinson as the Special Envoy of the Secretary-
General,  whom  we  also  congratulate.  We  reiterate 
our  appeal  to  all  signatories  to  honour  the  tenets  of 
that agreement. We appeal to the Congolese actors to 
conclude the Kampala negotiations so as to ensure the 
return  of  lasting  stability  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of the Congo. 
The establishment of dates for the presidential and 
legislative  elections  this  year  in  Madagascar  creates 
good  prospects  for  the  conclusion  of  the  political 
transition  process  in  that  country.  We  must  therefore 
continue  to  provide  our  support  to  ensure  that  this 
process is successful.
Within  the  framework  of  our  chairmanship  of 
the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
we remain steadfast and committed to the stability of 
Guinea-Bissau. We welcome the efforts of the Guinea-
Bissau  political  actors  to  restore  stability  to  their 
country.  We  also  commend  other  partners  of  Guinea-
Bissau — including the Economic Community of West 
African States, the African Union, the European Union 
and  the  United  Nations —  which  have  contributed  to 
the creation of a new dynamic that seeks to find lasting 
solutions  to  the  political  crisis.  We  also  welcome  the 
appointment  of  President  Ramos-Horta  as  Special 
13-48449
31/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and  Head  of 
Mission for the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding 
Office in Guinea Bissau. We reiterate our appeal to the 
international  community  to  continue  to  mobilize  the 
resources needed to fundamental elections and, above 
all, to strengthen State institutions in Guinea-Bissau.
The agenda of this session focuses on development, 
the successful implementation of which can occur only 
in a climate of international of peace and security. In 
seeking  solutions  to  the  conflicts  in  different  parts 
of  the  world,  the  multilateral  approach,  based  on  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  must 
prevail.  Safeguarding  world  peace  will  always  be  our 
collective responsibility and never that of one country 
or of group of States. In that context, the reform of the 
United  Nations,  particularly  of  the  Security  Council, 
must continue to receive our special attention so as to 
ensure that that organ is more representative, democratic 
and credible and that it can respond more effectively to 
the various challenges of the contemporary world.
It  will  always  be  a  paradox  that  whenever  social, 
environmental and economic issues arise, all countries 
understand that multilateral cooperation is a mechanism 
that  cannot  be  avoided,  but  that  decisions  involving 
peace or war tend to be made behind closed doors by a 
small group of States. At a time in which concepts such 
as  democracy,  inclusion,  ownership  and  transparency 
enjoy  renewed  prominence,  we  must  all  accept  that 
the  time  has  come  to  balance  the  imbalances  that  are 
contrary to multilateralism. 
It  is  in  the  context  of  this  overall  framework  that 
the Republic of Mozambique maintains its support for 
the  self-determination  of  the  Palestinian  people,  the 
existence  of  a  Palestinian  State  based  on  the  relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  two-State  solution 
in  which  Palestine  and  Israel  live  side  by  side  and  in 
an  environment  of  peace  and  security.  We  further 
support the self-determination of the Saharawi people. 
Moreover,  the  Republic  of  Mozambique  reaffirms  the 
need  to  end  economic  trade  and  financial  embargos 
against Cuba. 
Once  again,  we  reiterate  our  commitment  to  the 
noble ideals of the United Nations and reaffirm that we 
will continue to do our part in building an increasingly 
better, more stable and prosperous world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. François Hollande, President of the 
French Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the French Republic. 
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of 
the  French  Republic,  and  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Hollande  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  an 
honour for the United Nations to act everywhere where 
the  freedom  of  peoples  is  denied.  It  is  an  honour  for 
the United Nations to act where fundamental rights are 
compromised. It is an honour for the United Nations to 
intervene where extremism threatens the security of the 
world. It is an honour for the United Nations to act on 
behalf of peace.
In Syria, the situation is becoming urgent because 
120,000 people have died over the past two and a half 
years — 90,000 in the past year alone. One-fourth of 
the  population  is  displaced.  Millions  of  Syrians  have 
become refugees and the country has been destroyed. 
The  worst  happened  on  21  August  in  Damascus, 
when  chemical  weapons  were  used  against  civilians, 
including  women  and  children.  United  Nations 
inspectors, sent officially on behalf of the Organization 
have, established unequivocally and with certainty the 
use of these weapons. 
In the face of this horrifying crime, France sought a 
strong reaction to punish this violation of international 
law  and  to  dissuade  Bashir  Al-Assad’s  regime  from 
committing  new  massacres.  This  pressure  exerted  by 
my country, along with others, in particular the United 
States,  has  seen  some  initial  results.  Negotiations  are 
under way as we speak to ensure the verification and 
destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. 
However,  if  these  negotiations  are  to  attain  their 
ultimate  end,  I  have  set  out  three  requirements.  The 
first is that any text must clearly make it possible for 
the Security Council to become seized of this issue of 
32/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
chemical  weapons  at  any  given  moment.  The  second 
requirement is that the draft resolution we are preparing 
provides  for  coercive  measures  under  Chapter  VII  in 
the  event  that  the  Syrian  regime  fails  to  respect  its 
commitments. Since the agreement signed between the 
United States and Russia has the same provision, that is 
all the more reason to include it in the draft resolution. 
The third requirement is that those who have committed 
these crimes must be held accountable before justice. 
But  we  cannot  limit  ourselves  to  this  draft 
resolution,  which  must  be  adopted  soon.  We  must 
end  this  war,  the  deadliest  since  the  beginning  of  the 
century.  The  solution  is  political.  Too  much  time  has 
been  squandered,  and  I  will  not  refer  again  to  the 
blocking of action in the Security Council. During this 
period, not only has the regime increased its violence, 
but  terrorist  groups  have  also  taken  advantage  of  the 
international community’s inertia, to the detriment of 
the democratic forces found within the Syrian National 
Coalition. 
This  is  why  the  “Geneva  II”  conference  must  be 
held as soon as possible. For France, however, Geneva 
II  is  not  just  a  talk  shop.  It  must  be  a  conference  to 
define the objective for putting in place a transitional 
Government  with  full  executive  powers,  mandated  to 
re-establish civil peace, to protect all communities and 
to organize elections in due time. I am sometimes asked 
about  participants  in  this  conference.  My  response  is 
simple. All countries — and I repeat, all countries — that 
accept the goal of installing a transitional Government 
and clearly acknowledge their commitment to a political 
solution will be welcome at the conference. 
Of equal urgency is the humanitarian situation. In 
Syria, the displaced are in the millions, and there are 
now more than 1.5 million refugees in Turkey, Jordan 
and  Lebanon.  The  prolongation  of  the  crisis  poses 
a  direct  threat  to  the  unity  and  security  of  Lebanon, 
nearly 20 per cent of whose population is now of Syrian 
origin. 
I  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for having organized the first meeting of the 
International  Support  Group  for  Lebanon.  France  is 
committed to that country because we know how much 
it has suffered in recent years from disturbances in the 
Middle  East  and  how  much  it  needs  to  be  supported 
today in its efforts to host refugees.
There  are  serious  concerns  in  that  part  of  the 
Middle  East,  but  there  are  also  glimmers  of  hope. 
The  first  is  the  resumption  of  negotiations  between 
the Israelis and the Palestinians. Only that will enable 
peace  to  be  achieved.  It  requires  the  coexistence  of 
two  States,  both  with  safe  and  recognized  borders. 
We must do everything to ensure that the opportunity 
that now exists for Israelis, Palestinians and the entire 
region is seized to finally bring an end to a conflict that 
whose regional and international repercussions are well 
known to us all. Negotiating peace between Israel and 
Palestine would be an historic act.
The  second  glimmer  of  hope  is  found  in  the 
statements of the new Iranian President, which reflect 
an evolution. I will not exaggerate them, but the question 
now is to know whether those words will be translated 
into  actions,  in  particular  concerning  the  nuclear 
issue.  For  the  past  10  years,  our  discussions  have  not 
progressed,  leading  the  the  international  community 
to  adopt  increasingly  severe  sanctions.  The  situation 
is  dangerous,  as  we  all  know.  Therefore,  France 
expects  from  Iran  concrete  gestures  reflecting  that 
country’s renunciation its military nuclear programme, 
although it clearly retains the right to pursue its civilian 
programme.  That  is  why  I  have  chosen  to  engage  in 
direct and open dialogue with President Rouhani. I will 
also say from this rostrum that while I am in favour of 
dialogue, I remain firm on the serious issue of nuclear 
proliferation.
The  Middle  East  is  not  the  only  region  of  the 
world that is of concern to us. Africa has fallen prey to 
terrorism, and the barbaric attack in Nairobi confirms 
that to us once again, tragically. Victories are possible 
against  terrorism.  In  Mali,  with  the  clear  mandate  of 
the Security Council, African and French forces, with 
the  support  of  Europe,  intervened  in  response  to  the 
appeal of the authorities in Bamako and brought an end 
to a broad terrorist offensive. Today we see the results. 
Mali has regained its territorial integrity. It has ensured 
the security of its population, and it has even been able 
to hold, on the scheduled date, a presidential election 
that  has  been  recognized  as  incontestable.  I  welcome 
the new President of Mali, Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Кeita. 
His  election  is  evidence  of  a  great  victory  for  West 
Africa against terrorism.
However, the threat continues to weigh heavily on 
the Sahel and in Libya, where weapons are uniquitous 
and where terrorist groups have found refuge. We must 
assist  the  Libyan  authorities  to  ensure  the  security 
of  their  territory  and  of  their  population.  France  is 
prepared to do so.
13-48449
33/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
I would like to sound an alarm, as I did last year 
with  respect  to  Mali.  The  warning  here  is  about  the 
Central African Republic — a small country that has 
been ravaged by coups and conflicts for years. Today, 
chaos  has  taken  root  and  civilians  are  yet  again  its 
victims. We must bring an end to the abuse, which is 
also sectarian in nature. That is why I would like the 
Security  Council  to  issue  a  mandate  and  provide  the 
logistical  and  financial  means  to  create  an  African 
force, with its first mission to re-establish stability in 
the Central African Republic.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, women 
and  children  are  victims  of  violence  every  day  in  the 
Kivu  region.  Again,  it  is  essential  that  we  continue 
to  strengthen 
the  United  Nations  Organization 
Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, to implement the Addis Ababa agreement, and 
to reject all external interference.
We must learn from the experience of recent years. 
Everywhere  chaos  reigns,  terrorism  takes  root  and 
grows.  That  is  the  case  in  Somalia,  and  the  horrific 
attack  against  Kenya  reminds  us  that  Al-Shaabab-
affiliated groups, while they have been defeated, have 
not yet been eradicated. That is why the international 
community  must  help  African  States 
to  protect 
themselves.
France  will  convene,  late  this  year,  a  meeting  on 
peace  and  security  in  Africa.  France  has  invited  all 
African countries; Europe will be represented, as will 
the  United  Nations.  The  purpose  of  the  meeting  is  to 
enable  the  establishment,  training  and  equipping  of 
African armies to ensure the security of the continent 
and combat all traffickers, particularly drug traffickers, 
and  piracy.  Africans  themselves  must  ensure  their 
security, but we cannot leave them to face the terrorist 
threat alone. 
The  best  weapons  we  have  are  our  development 
policies, because poverty, unemployment and inequality 
provide fertile soil for violence and insecurity. Again, 
France  calls  for  the  mobilization  of  the  international 
community through new funds that we must create to 
finance  the  necessary  infrastructures  and  to  enable 
access to essential public services.
France  is  fighting,  along  with  Europe,  for  the 
introduction of innovative financing. My country’s tax 
on airline tickets, which helps finance the International 
Drug  Purchase  Facility  (UNITAID),  has  brought  in 
more than €1 billion since 2006. My country has decided 
to increase that tax by a further 10 per cent to enhance 
our  fight  against  the  great  pandemics:  HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis  and  malaria.  With  Europe,  France  has 
also established a tax on financial transactions. I have 
decided to allocate 10 per cent of that income towards 
such  development-related  actions  as  access  to  water 
and  renewable  energy,  because  with  development 
assistance we can help the poorest countries to ensure 
their future, and thereby their security, and to respond 
to global warming, which concerns us all.
France  is  available  to  host  the  2015  climate 
conference.  This  matter,  too,  respresents  a  threat  to 
our  own  security,  because  one  report  after  another 
states that if we do nothing, by the end of this century 
the  temperature  of  the  planet  will  have  increased  by 
three or four degrees Centigrade, with the well-known 
consequences of flooding in some places, droughts in 
others.  Those  direct  threats  would  in  turn  endanger 
peace throughout the world. We must therefore seek an 
agreement at the 2015 climate conference.
The foundations of the commitment are well known. 
The agreement must be equitable. Each country must do 
its part. The developed countries obviously must make 
he greatest effort. Emerging countries must protect their 
development,  but  they  must  also  understand  that  they 
are  directly  threatened  by  global  warming.  The  least 
developed countries, those that are the most fragile and 
vulnerable, must be aided in the transition. That is the 
purpose  of  the  fund  that  was  created  in  Durbin.  The 
agreement must also be binding; it cannot simply be a 
reiteration of principles. It cannot simply be wording in 
resolutions that are not translated into concrete actions. 
If  there  is  no  assessment  and  there  are  no  sanctions, 
there will be no progress and global temperature will 
inexorably rise.
nuclear 
security, 
My  message  is  simple.  In  any  domain,  whether 
international 
proliferation, 
development  or  climate  change,  the  worst  threat  is 
inaction,  the  worst  decision  is  to  take  no  decision, 
and the worst danger is to not see any. And the United 
Nations  bears  the  responsibility  to  act.  Each  time  the 
Organization  appears  powerless,  peace  is  the  first 
victim. That is why I am proposing that the permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  define  a  code  of 
conduct  such  that  in  cases  of  mass  crimes,  they  may 
collectively decide to renounce the right of veto.
It  is  also  my  hope  to  see  the  Secretary-General’s 
powers  of  inquiry  strengthened  to  enable  the  United 
Nations  to  ensure  —  as  it  has  done  in  Syria  —  that 
34/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
the  truth  is  established  in  all  instances,  carry  out 
investigations and act on the results. The Assembly has 
the sovereign right to take such a decision. Our credibility 
depends  upon  our  capacity  to  intervene  quickly  and 
effectively  in  ensuring  respect  for  international  law, 
punishing  violations  and  promoting  development  to 
preserve  future  generations.  Our  legitimacy  flows 
from  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  be 
worthy of it. Within that framework, France will always 
assume its responsibilities in all domains.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the French Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin 
Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom  
of Jordan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the King of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan.
His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, 
King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
King Abdullah: It is an honour to join the Assembly 
today. I congratulate President Ashe on his election and 
sincerely  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  always 
invaluable work.
Global  security  will  long  be  shaped  by  what  is 
happening right now in the Middle East. Our region can 
be and must be a house of peace and prosperity, with 
strong pillars of good governance and wide-open doors 
to opportunity, especially for our young people. That is 
Jordan’s blueprint, and we are not alone.
But no house can be built when its city is burning. 
And today, the region’s fires cannot be ignored. All the 
world is in their path. To protect the future, our world 
must respond. The Syrian crisis is a global humanitarian 
and  security  disaster.  Escalating  violence  threatens 
to  hollow  out  the  rest  of  that  country’s  economic  and 
political future. Extremists have rushed to promote and 
exploit ethnic and religious divisions. Such a dynamic 
could crush regional renaissance and put global security 
at risk. We have a duty to reject those destructive forces.
Last month, Jordan hosted more than 100 eminent 
Muslim  scholars  from  around  the  world.  Their  work 
affirms  the  true  teachings  of  Islam  and  builds  on 
Jordan’s  long-standing  interfaith  and  intra-religious 
initiatives:  the  Amman  Message,  A  Common  Word, 
and World Interfaith Harmony Week. 
The scholars said that there was no single prescribed 
model for an Islamic State, but they affirmed that the 
modern Islamic State should be a civic State, founded 
on institutions and with an inclusive constitution based 
on  the  rule  of  law,  justice  and  freedom  of  opinion 
and  faith.  The  modern  Islamic  State  should  uphold 
equality  across  the  ethnic  and  religious  spectrum. 
The  scholars  decisively  condemned  the  incitement  of 
ethnic and sectarian conflict, known in Arabic as fitna. 
They  recognized  that  evil  for  what  it  is  —  a  threat 
to  the  Muslim  world,  the  Ummah,  and  indeed  to  all 
humankind. Jordan has called upon the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation to adopt those recommendations, 
which are critical guiding principles amid the turbulence 
and transformations across our region.
This  month,  we  in  Jordan  also  convened  an 
international  meeting  to  address  challenges  to  Arab 
Christian  communities.  They  are  an  essential  part  of 
our region’s past, present and future. Jordan has been 
a historic model of coexistence and fraternity between 
Muslims  and  Christians.  We  will  continue  to  do  our 
utmost to protect our Arab Christian communities and 
minorities, and we call on all countries to join us in our 
stand for diversity, tolerance and mutual respect.
The truth is that respect for each other is the way 
forward  for  all  of  us.  The  historic  transformation 
going  on  in  my  region  today  will  not  be  achieved  by 
formulas;  it  will  come  when  all  of  our  citizens  feel 
truly  represented.  Jordan  seeks  a  house  of  the  future 
that includes all. We are building our future on the solid 
foundation  of  majority  consensus,  minority  rights,  a 
democratic culture of active citizenship and peaceful, 
evolutionary change.
The  Syrian  people  must  also  have  a  future.  And 
for  that,  the  international  community  must  act.  It  is 
13-48449
35/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
time  to  fast-track  a  political  transition  in  Syria,  end 
the  violence  and  bloodshed,  neutralize  the  threat  of 
chemical  weapons,  restore  security  and  stability, 
preserve the unity of Syria and its territorial integrity, 
and engage all — all — of its people in building their 
country’s future.
Syria’s future will depend on the Syrian people, but 
the world has the duty, the interest and the power to help. 
And  help  must  come  soon.  The  damage  and  dangers 
are mounting. The flow of Syrian refugees into Jordan 
already equals one-tenth of our own population. It could 
reach 1 million, some 20 per cent of our population, by 
next year. These are not just numbers; they are people 
who  need  food,  water,  shelter,  sanitation,  electricity, 
health care and more. 
Not  even  the  strongest  global  economies  could 
absorb  such  demand  on  infrastructure  and  resources, 
let alone a small economy and the fourth water-poorest 
country in the world. Jordanians have opened their arms 
to those in need, as we have always done, but I say here 
and now that my people cannot be asked to shoulder the 
burden of what is a regional and global challenge.
Let me acknowledge, with gratitude, the generous 
response to date by the United Nations and regional and 
international donors. But we can all see the reality on 
the  ground;  the  need  is  outracing  the  response.  More 
support is urgently needed to send a strong signal that 
the world community stands shoulder to shoulder with 
those who have borne so much. Those who are suffering 
in Syria also need the world to be resolute: the Syrian 
parties  must  abide  by  international  humanitarian  law 
and principles, and allow humanitarian access, into and 
within Syria, to reach those in need.
Our  international  community  must  also  work 
together  for  a  speedy  resolution  of  the  region’s  core 
crisis.  The  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  consumes 
resources that are needed to build a better future and 
feeds the flames of extremism around the world. It is 
time to put this fire out.
The  talks  that  began  in  July  show  that  progress 
can be made, with willing parties, determined United 
States leadership and strong regional and international 
backing.  We  commend  the  President  of  Palestine  and 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Israel  for  the  bold  decision  to 
resume  final  status  negotiations.  We  urge  them  to 
stay  committed  to  reaching  an  agreement  within  the 
established  time  frame.  Let  there  be  no  actions  that 
can  derail  what  is  still  a  fragile  process.  This  means 
no continued settlement construction and no unilateral 
actions that threaten the status quo in East Jerusalem 
and  its  Muslim  and  Christian  holy  sites.  Such  threats 
would be a flashpoint for global concern.
We  know  the  right  way  forward.  And  the  goal 
can  be  reached.  It  includes  a  just  and  final  two-State 
settlement,  based  on  international  legitimacy  and  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative;  for  Israel,  real  security  and 
normal  relations  with  57  Arab  and  Muslim  countries; 
for the Palestinian people, at long last, the rights they 
deserve  in  a  viable  and  independent  Palestinian  State 
on Palestinian national soil, based on the 1967 lines and 
with East Jerusalem as its capital.
the 
Let  us  keep 
focus  on  what  we  are 
building  —  communities  safe  for  families  to  lead 
normal lives; a Middle East of many houses, working 
together  in  region-wide  cooperation;  the  ultimate 
security for our future.
The  future  is  ours  to  build,  not  in  the  Middle 
East  alone,  but  in  global  partnership.  Those  who  are 
working  to  do  the  right  thing  need  the  whole  world’s 
support.  With  every  country  that  is  more  prosperous 
and free, with every neighbourhood that is safer, with 
every person who has more reason to hope, the entire 
house of humankind grows more secure. Let this be our 
promise, not only for future generations, but for those 
we serve today.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the King of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has just made.
King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein,  King  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President of the 
Slovak Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President 
of the Slovak Republic, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
36/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
in 
(spoke 
President  Gašparovič 
Slovak; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  To  address 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  Slovak  citizens  is 
a great responsibility. It is a great responsibility for all 
of us who have been entrusted with such a mandate by 
our citizens. They rightly expect that this unique global 
Organization  will  seek  and  find  effective  solutions 
to  bring  greater  peace,  stability  and  prosperity  to 
humankind.
I believe that with President Ashe’s experience we 
will succeed in that task. I wish to thank his predecessor, 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić, for the vigour with which he presided 
over the General Assembly at its last session. I convey 
my deepest respect to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 
whose  foresight  and  impartial  service  epitomize  the 
values of the Organization.
We have been going through a period of controversial 
changes  and  unperceived  opportunities,  as  well  as 
unprecedented challenges. The one thing that remains 
unchanged,  however,  is  the  power  of  our  joint  efforts 
and cooperation. Thrown off balance, the world expects 
that  we  will  assume  responsibility  for  taking  resolute 
action together and on behalf of humanity, not governed 
solely  by  our  narrow  national  or  corporate  interests. 
The  time  has  come  to  learn  to  respect  our  diversity 
and become in truth the United Nations. Achieving the 
two  primary  goals  of  this  Organization —  peace  and 
prosperity for all — remains our greatest challenge and 
our primary responsibility. Effective multilateralism is 
therefore in the national interest of us all.
Our  resolve  and  ability  to  respond  effectively  are 
being tested by the current Syrian crisis. The conflict 
threatens  the  entire  region.  It  is  frightening  not  only 
because of the number of casualties and refugees; what 
is  equally  alarming  is  the  inability  of  the  Security 
Council  to  take  any  effective  action.  Thoughtful 
reflection on all the possible consequences of a military 
intervention  in  Syria  makes  it  clear  that  there  is  only 
one good solution to this conflict, the diplomatic one. 
We must not be afraid to choose compromise solutions 
that could serve as a basis for positive resolution of the 
problem in the future. 
The United Nations plays a key role in ensuring that 
civilians have access to humanitarian aid, and that those 
who commit crimes against humanity are punished and, 
above all, in enforcing a truce and launching talks on 
stable  post-conflict  arrangements  under  the  “Geneva 
II”  initiative.  Slovakia  condemns  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  on  principle  as  a  crime  against  humanity 
and requests urgently that the perpetrators be brought 
before  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Continued 
engagement  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  is 
essential,  since  there  is  no  functioning  alternative  to 
its role.
Our recent experience in addressing international 
and national crises and conflicts in various regions of the 
world, including the so-called Arab spring, encourages 
us  to  be  extremely  cautious  when  considering  action 
by  the  international  community.  The  analysis  of  the 
consequences of such action must be at least as detailed 
and  elaborate  as  that  of  how  to  conduct  a  potential 
intervention.
in 
Slovakia’s 
involvement 
international  crisis 
management  and 
in  building  and  maintaining 
peace,  stability  and  prosperity  has  long  focused  on 
Afghanistan, where the Slovak Republic has provided 
military as well as civilian and humanitarian aid. We 
greatly appreciate the work done by the United Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and its challenging 
role  in  assisting  the  Afghan  Government  with  its 
security, political and economic transition. 
Indeed,  security,  economic  development,  good 
governance, the protection of human rights for all and, 
last  but  not  least,  the  preparation  and  organization  of 
free elections, must be the founding pillars in building 
a  new  Afghan  State.  The  upcoming  presidential 
election  will  be  a  milestone  in  Afghanistan’s  history. 
The key to success of all these processes, even beyond 
2014, is national reconciliation, based on the principles 
of  constitutionality  and  respect  for  human  rights. 
Afghanistan needs consistent, predictable and targeted 
support  and  assistance  both  from  its  neighbours  and 
the  entire 
international  community.  We  consider 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations pivotal in that regard.
Africa remains a vulnerable continent with a high 
concentration  of  conflicts.  We  believe  that  it  will  be 
able to make progress towards stability, prosperity and 
greater cooperation in a sustainable manner, with help 
from  the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations 
such as the African Union. The 50 years of the African 
Union’s  existence  have  contributed 
increased 
cooperation and development throughout the continent, 
and  I  believe  it  will  stay  on  that  path.  Preventing 
conflicts  and  resolving  their  primary  causes  are  long 
and complex processes. Africa still needs attention and 
to 
13-48449
37/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
assistance  from  the  international  community,  with  a 
focus on preventive diplomacy and national ownership 
of  all  processes.  The  Slovak  Republic  supports  more 
intensive cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union, as well as closer relations between 
the African Union and the European Union.
We continue to pay close attention to the security 
situation in the Middle East. We are glad to see some 
positive  signals  among  the  worrying  news  from  this 
part  of  the  world.  Slovakia  welcomes  and  supports 
the  renewal  of  talks  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  It 
seems, however, that talks are not enough. A number of 
binding  agreements  and  resolutions  have  been  agreed 
on to date in order to resolve numerous issues, but they 
have not been sufficiently complied with. We therefore 
expect  more  in  the  way  of  implementation  of  agreed 
solutions. That is vital to peace, security, stability and 
further development in the entire region.
Terrorism remains one of the most serious threats to 
peace and security. It plays a key role in many conflicts 
and  most  of  its  victims  are  civilians.  We  should  keep 
our resolve to do everything to reach an agreement on 
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. 
We will find a solution only through joint efforts under 
the auspices of the United Nations.
We cannot have a secure, safe and stable environment 
without  effective  arms  control  and  disarmament 
procedures in place as the basic instrument for conflict 
prevention. The signing of the Arms Trade Treaty has 
shown  that  the  United  Nations  has  the  potential  to 
make  history  and  contribute  substantively  to  greater 
security  in  the  world  through  its  shared  commitment 
to  a  responsible  approach  to  arms  trading.  Slovakia 
believes that the collective efforts of the international 
community can ensure that the Treaty will soon enter 
into  force,  and  we  are  prepared  to  do  whatever  is 
necessary to promote that. With regard to eliminating 
nuclear  threats  and  their  secondary  consequences  for 
health and the environment, Slovakia actively supports 
the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty, which we consider to be an important pillar 
of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
I  wish  to  particularly  stress  —  and  I  repeat  this 
at  every  meeting  here  at  the  United  Nations  —  that 
security  sector  reform  is  a  key  component  of  post-
conflict  development  and  effective  reinforcement 
of  the  rule  of  law.  In  the  context  of  the  consolidation 
process, we therefore consider it an inseparable part of 
the  security/rule  of  law/development  structure.  If  we 
cannot give people security, safety, education and jobs, 
they will be quick to draw guns again in desperation. 
Unfortunately, experience offers proof of that. Slovakia 
closely cooperates with the United Nations in building 
the  effective  and  adequate  capacity  essential 
to 
security  sector  reform  and  emphasizing  national  and 
local  ownership  of  all  processes.  The  United  Nations 
is a guarantor of an impartial system of support to its 
members in that area.
Enduring  peace  requires  respect  for  freedom, 
democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights.  The 
culture  of  impunity  has  no  place  in  today’s  world. 
The  role  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  the 
multilateral  system  is  irreplaceable  in  that  regard,  as 
it  focuses  on  preventing  the  perpetrators  of  the  most 
serious crimes from going unpunished. But its decisions 
must be unquestionable. The Slovak Republic welcomed 
the adoption of amendments to the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court in June 2010. Therefore, 
we call on all United Nations Members that have not yet 
done so to ratify the Rome Statute and its amendments.
This  year,  we  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  World  Conference  on  Human  Rights  and  the 
adoption  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme 
of  Action.  Those  historic  documents  are  still  relevant 
and  represent  a  priority  objective  that  the  activities 
of  the  international  community  should  pursue.  They 
confirm  that  the  universal  nature  of  all  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms is beyond question. At the 
same time, they emphasize the interconnection between 
peace and security, economic and social development, 
and respect for human rights.
There can be no peace without economic stability 
and prosperity. Ensuring sustainable development and 
social stability is beyond doubt the most effective way 
to  prevent  conflicts.  That  is  an  agenda  in  which  the 
United Nations has enormous potential; however, it is 
one of the most fragmented within the United Nations 
system. We appreciate that this issue is among the key 
priorities of the current session.
Its relevance is also evident in a series of important 
side  events  that  focus  on  meeting  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  development  agenda  in 
general.  We  particularly  appreciate  the  initiative  of 
the  General  Assembly  in  organizing  the  High-level 
Meeting  on  Disability  and  Development  with  the  aim 
of  ensuring  the  inclusion  of  people  with  disabilities 
38/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
in  the  development  agenda  beyond  2015.  There  are 
some  1  billion  people  with  disabilities  worldwide, 
many of them living in poverty, who are still excluded 
from  equitable  access  to  education,  health  care,  jobs, 
and  social  and  legal  support  systems.  This  dialogue 
is  another  step  forward  towards  the  empowerment 
of  people  with  disabilities.  We  want  to  stress  the 
importance of including this issue in the development 
agenda  beyond  2015.  We  are  also  paying  increased 
attention to ensuring access to energy supply, water and 
safe food for all.
Slovakia  wants  to  actively  participate  in  the 
preparation  of  the  development  goals  beyond  2015 
and  is  getting  ready  for  a  new  stage  in  development 
cooperation.  We  have  only 
recently  become  a 
member  of  the  Development  Assistance  Council  of 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development, reflecting our commitment to becoming 
a full-fledged member of the international community 
of  donor  countries.  Slovakia  has  thoroughly  studied 
the  report  of  the  High-Level  Panel  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda,  which  sets  out  a  global 
framework  for  development  cooperation  goals.  The 
goals and measures must be coherent with and integrate 
development, social and environmental aspects in line 
with the outcome of the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development in Rio. 
The new goals must ensure effective and measurable 
results. The crucial task will be identifying resources 
to  meet  the  new  sustainable  development  goals.  Our 
efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
have been hindered by the ongoing lack of public funds 
and  resources.  The  economic  and  financial  crisis  has 
helped to reveal a number of systemic deficiencies in 
the distribution and control of resources, in particular 
public ones, as well as the need to draw on innovative 
resources,  including  private  ones,  in  the  process. 
Slovakia wants to contribute to the discussion through 
its  work  in  the  Committee  of  Experts  on  Sustainable 
Development Financing.
Until  recently,  Slovakia  was  a 
recipient  of 
development assistance. Naturally, it now wants to give 
back by supporting countries dependent on assistance 
from  the  international  community.  This  year,  we 
celebrate the tenth anniversary of the establishment of 
a  national  system  for  official  development  assistance. 
The  focus  of  the  development  assistance  provided  by 
Slovakia reflects the needs of countries that rely on such 
assistance and responds to the global challenges within 
the international community. Slovakia has experience 
in  political  and  economic  transition  and  integration 
into  European  and  trans-Atlantic  structures.  Slovakia 
now  primarily  shares  the  lessons  it  has  learned  from 
building  civil  society  and  public  governance  reforms 
with  the  countries  of  the  Eastern  Partnership  and  the 
Western  Balkans,  as  well  as  others,  including  Kenya 
and  Afghanistan.  Slovakia  concentrates  on  poverty 
eradication  by  facilitating  access  to  health  care  and 
education  and  by  enhancing  the  status  of  women  and 
young people in those countries.
We are going through turbulent times. The United 
Nations has the potential to be a global leader in ensuring 
peace and prosperity for all. But if its effectiveness is 
not  enhanced,  the  Organization’s  relevance  will  be 
at  risk.  In  order  to  perform  all  its  tasks,  the  United 
Nations  must  be  strong,  inclusive  and  open.  Global 
links require strengthening existing partnerships with 
regional organizations, partners from the private sector 
and,  last  but  not  least,  civil  society.  We  understand 
that the United Nations needs sufficient financial and 
human resources to effectively fulfil its mandates, but 
we call for their more efficient use.
the 
This  year,  Slovakia  celebrates 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  its  sovereign  existence.  It  was  only 
natural  that  the  first  steps  of  Slovakia  as  a  sovereign 
State  led  to  the  United  Nations.  The  principles  and 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  represent  the  firm 
cornerstone  of  Slovak  foreign  policy,  based  on  the 
values of effective multilateralism. Over these 20 years, 
Slovakia’s  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  has 
strengthened  and  intensified  as  Slovakia  has  grown 
and as its position as a stable democratic country and a 
reliable, proactive partner at the international level has 
been strengthened. Thanks to that development, in June 
I was able to host a summit of 20 Eastern and Central 
European presidents in Bratislava, where we discussed 
ways  to  address  the  current  financial  and  economic 
crisis and on good regional cooperation.
Slovakia  has  been  contributing  to  a  wide  range 
of  United  Nations  activities  through  its  work  in  the 
Organization’s main bodies and its direct involvement 
in more than 17 peacekeeping operations, as well as by 
implementing over 400 humanitarian and development 
projects in more than 20 countries worldwide. Having 
won the trust of its partners, Slovakia has been elected 
to  all  relevant  United  Nations  bodies,  enabling  it  to 
promote and enforce even more effectively the values 
of  the  United  Nations  in  all  three  main  pillars  of  its 
13-48449
39/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
work. I can assure the General Assembly that Slovakia 
will continue its tireless efforts to serve and assist in 
meeting the United Nations goals as a reliable partner.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Slovak 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
should  like  to  depart  slightly  from  protocol  and  start 
my  statement  by  speaking  about  a  humble  woman,  a 
Colombian  named  María  Zabala,  who  has  to  bear  the 
burden  of  immense  pain  in  her  heart  day  in  and  day 
out. Two decades ago, armed members of illegal groups 
arrived  outside  her  house  located  on  the  Colombian 
Caribbean  coast,  determined  to  impose  their  rule 
of  terror.  In  front  of  her  and  her  small  children,  they 
murdered  her  husband  and  two  other  relatives.  They 
forced  her  to  leave  her  house  and  then  they  burned 
everything  down.  She  barely  managed  to  remove  the 
corpses  from  the  ashes.  She  buried  them  right  there 
and  fled  from  her  parcel  of  land  with  her  children 
and  without  any  belongings.  All  she  carried  was  the 
immense weight of her tragedy.
Today, María Zabala is a courageous and inspiring 
leader,  a  leader  of  victims,  who  is  working  for  peace 
in  my  country.  In  Colombia,  sadly,  there  are  many 
thousands of cases like María Zabala’s. It is estimated 
that  over  the  past  50  years,  over  220,000  people  died 
because  of  the  conflict.  That  is  more  than  twice  the 
death toll of the Bosnian war in the former Yugoslavia, 
which was an open and ruthless conflict that moved the 
entire  world.  And  to  that,  we  would  have  to  add  the 
injured, the people mutilated by anti-personnel mines, 
those who have suffered the infamy of kidnapping and 
those uprooted from their own land, who could amount 
to almost 5 million people.
That is the harsh and ugly reality of a conflict that 
unfortunately  persists  to  this  day.  It  is  the  oldest  and 
the  last  conflict  in  the  western  hemisphere.  In  spite 
of the conflict, Colombia has achieved unprecedented 
progress  in  recent  years  on  matters  of  security,  in 
the  fight  against  poverty  and  inequality,  and  in  its 
economic  performance.  We  have  achieved  much  —  a 
great deal — in the midst of a confrontation. Imagine 
how  much  more  we  could  have  done  without  the 
confrontation. And I must confess to the Assembly that 
for me, as the head of the Government, it would have 
been easy to continue to move forward on the path that 
we were on and to leave the conflict unresolved, because 
waging war — and I know how to wage war — is easier 
than seeking peace.
It  would  have  been  easier,  but  not  responsible, 
because continuing to coexist with the conflict would be 
like sentencing millions of people to many more years 
of  violence,  fear,  poverty  and  victimization.  It  would 
not  be  responsible  towards  Latin  America  or  towards 
the world, as they also suffer, in different ways, from 
the effects of the Colombian conflict. And it would not 
be responsible towards my own conscience, because we 
have the best possible opportunity before us today — a 
real opportunity, and maybe the last — to put an end 
to the conflict. I could not die in peace if I failed to do 
everything  within  my  power  to  seize  the  opportunity 
presented. 
My generation has not seen a single day of peace, 
and my dream is for my children and the children of all 
Colombians to have the opportunity to know peace. I 
hope that the guerrilla forces understand that the time 
has  come  to  leave  this  50-year  confrontation  behind; 
that the time has come to move from bullets to votes, 
from weapons to discussion; that the time has come for 
them to continue their struggle, but within democracy.
Today, before the General Assembly, we Colombians 
want  to  thank  the  international  community  for  the 
support we have received in the endeavour to bring an 
end  to  our  conflict  through  dialogue.  With  the  world 
as our witness, we wish to assert our right to achieve 
the peace. We are tired of being afraid, we are tired of 
violence, we are tired of a conflict that pits the children 
40/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
of  the  same  nation  against  each  other  and  delays  our 
development. María Zabala is one victim among many, 
all of whom are entitled to justice, truth and reparations 
and to not seeing history repeat itself. That is what we 
are working on in our country.
My Government has promoted our most ambitious 
bill yet, recognizing and compensating victims in the 
midst of a conflict. I had the honour of ratifying that bill 
in the presence of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. But 
our commitment goes beyond serving the victims of the 
past; our most urgent obligation today is to eliminate 
the  possibility  of  new  victims  being  claimed  by  the 
conflict. Our obligation is to end the conflict now and 
to ensure that the spiral of violence and pain will not 
continue to recur. We are doing that in accordance with 
our democratic tradition — of course respecting, as we 
always have, the rule of law — and in compliance with 
our  international  obligations.  We  wish  to  achieve  an 
end to our conflict without relinquishing justice, much 
less the truth and due care of the victims. 
I take this opportunity to offer my thoughts to the 
General Assembly on the role of the United Nations and 
the multilateral organizations in our peace process and 
its future implementation. The subject is relevant and 
current, since Colombia is possibly the first country in 
the  world  to  engage  in  a  process  of  that  nature  since 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  will 
make us a model for other cases where dialogue is given 
priority over armed solutions, as should be the case. 
Former  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights Louise Arbour of Canada recently stated 
that  international  doctrine  had  not  been  successful 
in  finding  practical  answers  as  to  how  to  resolve  the 
real  tension  that  exists  between  peace  and  justice  in 
a  negotiation  process.  Ms.  Arbour  recalled  examples, 
such  as  International  Criminal  Tribunals  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, which had been given 
immense resources but had yielded very poor results.
The  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda, 
established  in  1994,  has  managed  to  dispose  of  only 
40 cases out of the nearly 800,000 murders committed 
in a single year. In 20 years, the International Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia has resolved barely 
100 cases.
Therefore,  how  can  we  simultaneously  achieve 
the  end  of  armed  conflict,  fulfil  our  obligation  to 
investigate  and  prosecute  and  realize  the  rights  of 
victims?  That  dilemma  must  be  confronted  with 
honesty and seriousness, and that is what we are doing 
in Colombia.
We  have  adopted  an 
integrated  strategy  for 
transitional  justice  that  addresses  the  issues  of  truth, 
justice  and  reparations,  which  we  hope  will  enable 
us  to  make  the  transition  towards  peace.  We  can  say 
that  we  have  been  pioneers  in  the  implementation  of 
transitional  justice  measures  in  the  midst  of  conflict, 
giving  priority  to  satisfying  the  rights  of  victims.  No 
one in my country wants the perpetuation of violence.
What we are asking from the United Nations and 
the international community is that both Colombia’s and 
every nation’s right to seek peace be respected We ask 
for continued support in that effort, along with respect 
for our decisions and our approach, with confidence in 
the fact that our actions have never deviated from the 
values of the international community.
We cannot investigate every action committed over 
half a century of violence, prosecute each and every one 
of those responsible and then find ourselves unable to 
follow through. But what we can do is to build a realistic 
and transparent strategy that may satisfy the rights of 
all the victims in the best possible way. If we understand 
justice and the fight against impunity in a transition as 
a set of measures aimed at satisfying the victims and 
not  just  as  the  administration  of  criminal  processes, 
it  will  be  possible  to  find  a  comprehensive  solution 
for  everyone.  I  refer  to  measures  such  as  genuinely 
establishing  the  facts  of  events,  the  acknowledgment 
of  responsibility,  the  recovery  of  trust,  access  to 
reparations, and measures aimed at ensuring that there 
will be no recurrence. In that way justice becomes — as 
it should be — a support for, rather than an obstacle to, 
peace.
I  want  to  be  clear:  there  will  be  no  impunity  for 
crimes  against  humanity  or  war  crimes  committed 
in  a  systematic  fashion.  On  the  contrary,  this  is  the 
first  time  that  Colombia  is  seriously  assuming  the 
obligation  of  fighting  impunity  for  crimes  committed 
in our armed conflict. The purpose is not to sacrifice 
justice  to  achieve  peace,  but  rather  to  achieve  peace 
with  maximum  justice.  I  am  saying  that  out  of  deep 
conviction. There is much at stake, that is, no less than 
an end to the half-century long conflict, as well as the 
fate of 47 million Colombians.
We  have  been  involved  in  talks  for  one  year 
now,  but  we  have  reached  agreements  on  just  one  of 
the six items on the agenda. I am still optimistic, but 
13-48449
41/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
the  patience  of  the  Colombian  people  is  not  infinite. 
The  guerrillas  will  have  to  decide  whether  they  opt 
for  an  honourable  and  lasting  peace,  or  whether  they 
will  continue  to  wage  war.  From  this  rostrum,  I  call 
upon them to understand that history has led us to this 
decisive moment. The time for decisions has come. If 
we  leave  empty-handed,  we  will  doom  our  nation  to 
many  more  years  of  bloodshed  and  pain.  We  cannot 
miss  this  opportunity.Future  generations  and  history 
will not forgive us.
Moreover,  our  conflict,  with  all  its  violence  and 
cruelty, has been affected by a poisonous scourge that 
fuels it and is fuelled by it: drug trafficking. That illicit 
activity has been the main funding source for violence 
and terrorism in my country — and I would say in the 
whole world as well in recent times. Without the grim 
influence of drug trafficking, which fuels the fires of 
our war, I am certain that the war would already have 
ended. That is why we have included the topic of illicit 
drugs as a specific item in the agenda of the discussions 
with the guerrillas.
If we manage to have the guerrillas change sides, 
once  they  have  demobilized,  and  become  an  ally  of 
the State in order to definitively curb drug trafficking 
and  eliminate  illegal  crops,  just  imagine  what  could 
be accomplished. A Colombia without coca crops and 
without a conflict was once a utopia and an impossible 
dream,  but  it  is  one  that  we  can  now  realize  for  the 
benefit not only of Colombians but of the whole world.
Almost a half century ago, in this very place, the 
Convention  that  gave  birth  to  the  war  on  drugs  was 
adopted. Today we must recognize that that war has not 
been won. I say that as the President of the country that 
has suffered the most deaths, the most bloodshed, the 
most  sacrifices  in  that  war,  and  also  the  country  that 
has achieved the most results in the fight against this 
scourge and the mafias that underpin it. 
Last  year,  when  chairing  the  Summit  of  the 
Americas, fully aware of that dilemma, I led a proposal 
to  debate  and  explore  different  scenarios  in  the  fight 
against  the  global  drug  problem,  aimed  at  evaluating 
what  we  are  doing  and  at  seeking  ways  to  be  more 
effective.  We  commissioned 
the  Organization  of 
American  States  to  conduct  studies  with  experts, 
academics  and  people  with  different  approaches  on 
how to face the problem. Those studies were delivered 
to  us  in  May.  Different  Governments  are  evaluating 
them and they should serve as inputs for discussions at 
all universities and think tanks, and in the context of 
different forums, not just from Latin America but from 
the  whole  world,  because  it  is  a  global  problem  that 
requires a global solution. Because of that — because 
it  is  a  global  problem —  we  expect  their  conclusions 
to also be discussed in this body, the United Nations, 
which  has  already  called  for  a  special  session  on  the 
drug problem to be convened in 2016. 
If we act together on the drug problem and adopt a 
new, modern and comprehensive vision that is free of 
ideological or political bias, imagine how much harm 
and violence we will be able to prevent. I am not just 
speaking about harm to people, but also harm to nature, 
because drug trafficking has become a major destroyer 
of  our  tropical  forests  and  forests  in  general,  in  what 
can be termed a veritable ecocide.
Colombia  is  deeply  committed  to  environmental 
protection.  At  the  Rio  de  Janeiro  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development, we put forward the proposal 
to  establish  sustainable  development  goals  as  a 
mandatory  benchmark  in  the  development  agenda  for 
the  coming  decades.  We  are  taking  an  active  part  in 
the  design  of  those  goals,  and  they  can  and  should 
be 
into  a  visionary  and  ambitious 
development agenda for all countries as of 2015. In fact, 
we were a member of the High-level Panel on the Post-
2015 Development Agenda, convened by the Secretary-
General  and  co-chaired  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United  Kingdom,  David  Cameron,  which  has  already 
presented its report. 
incorporated 
Colombia, for its part, is continuing to do a great 
deal.  For  example,  a  few  weeks  ago,  we  doubled  the 
area  of  the  largest  national  park  in  Colombia,  the 
Chiribiquete National Natural Park, located in the very 
heart of our Amazon region. We designated that area a 
natural reserve and prohibited mining and deforestation 
activities in an area roughly the size of Belgium, and 
not just in any place, but in the area where the Amazon 
region has the greatest biological and cultural diversity. 
This  very  morning  we  are  launching,  with  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Norway  and  five  other  countries, 
the New Climate Economy initiative. With the support 
of the most respected research institutes, we will seek 
the best way of making economic efficiencies and the 
fight against poverty compatible with the preservation 
of the environment. In that way we are shouldering our 
responsibilities with respect to climate change, which 
has  already  had  an  impact  on  Colombians.  We  will 
42/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
protect the sources of oxygen and water necessary not 
just for Colombia’s survival but that of the entire planet.
I will conclude by stating that in my country we are 
working and will continue to work to prevent the plight 
of María Zabala and millions of other victims from ever 
recurring.  Never  again!  I  hope  that  the  President  of 
Colombia will come to the Assembly next year bearing 
the good news that the conflict has come to an end.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Colombia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Amir of the State of Qatar
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Amir of the State of Qatar.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
Sheikh  Al-Thani  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would  like 
first to congratulate His Excellency Mr. John Ashe on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session, and I wish him every success in his 
mission. I would like also to express our appreciation 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  President  of  the 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  for  his  efforts 
for  the  success  of  that  session.  I  would  like  also  to 
commend the efforts of His Excellency the Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to strengthen the role of the 
United Nations.
The international community faces many different 
problems related to peace and security, in addition to 
challenges  facing  the  efforts  made  to  solve  disputes 
peacefully.  This  calls  for  strengthening  the  United 
Nations  capacity 
these  challenges  and 
problems.
tackle 
to 
Peoples  from  different  regions  of  the  world  are 
expecting the institutions of the international community 
to dedicate their efforts to finding solutions to the issues 
of poverty, hunger and sustainable development in a way 
that  goes  beyond  simply  convening  conferences  and 
adopting  resolutions,  and  even  beyond  the  necessary 
collective  attention  and  campaigns  that  are  called  for 
from time to time, important as they might be.
Recently,  the  Arab  region  has  experienced  many 
historic events and accelerating change. It has witnessed 
turbulent events arising from popular movements and 
their forceful entry into the public and political arenas.
Stalemate  continues  to  characterize  the  Arab-
Israeli conflict. That conflict is at the forefront of the 
issues  threatening  international  peace  and  security, 
owing  to  the  continued  Israeli  occupation  and  the 
injustices  inflicted  upon  the  Palestinian  people,  as 
well as the failure to reach a just and lasting peace in 
accordance  with  resolutions  of  international  legality. 
The  continued  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  and 
Arab  territories  cannot  be  accepted  as  normal.  Its 
practices  include  the  changing  of  the  demographic 
conditions in those territories, particularly through the 
expansion of settlement activity, the Judaization of the 
city of Jerusalem, the unjust embargo against the Gaza 
Strip, and intensification of settlement activities in the 
occupied Syrian Golan and changing its status quo and 
demographics. This is not simply because such actions 
represent flagrant violations of international laws and 
covenants, but also because the Palestinian cause is a 
just cause and the historical injustice inflicted upon the 
Palestinian people must end.
The  major  international  bodies  were  established 
on  the  basis  of  the  right  to  self-determination  in  the 
aftermath  of  two  world  wars.  It  is  unreasonable  that 
they  cannot  do  anything  about  the  last  remaining 
colonial issue in the world. 
Israel  should  realize  that  coercion  and  de  facto 
policies  do  not  bring  security.  It  is  wrong  for  it  to 
establish  a  State  that  believes  that  the  prospect  for 
peace lies in subjugating other peoples, denying their 
rights and making that a priority over peace. 
There  can  be  no  security  without  peace.  True 
peace can come about only through coexistence among 
peoples  on  the  basis  of  good-neighbourliness,  mutual 
respect and respect for the interests of all. The peace we 
desire is built upon dignity, justice and the principles 
of  international  legality,  as  well  as  United  Nations 
resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative, the principle 
of  a  two-State  solution  and  the  withdrawal  of  Israel 
13-48449
43/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
from  all  occupied  Arab  territories.  The  experiences 
of  different  nations  and  peoples  confirm  that  unjust 
settlements do not endure but only lead to new conflicts.
The continued de facto policy in Palestine will not 
make the issue disappear. It is actually becoming more 
complicated,  because  continuing  settlement  activities 
are  leading  to  the  destruction  of  the  foundation  for 
the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State.  The  current 
status quo resembles a situation of apartheid under the 
domination of one State or even within a single State. 
That  cannot  but  be  grounds  for  fresh  conflict,  as  no 
people  could  accept  continued  injustice  and  remain 
silent.
The  inalienable  national  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  establish  their  independent  State,  with 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and  within  the  limits  of  1967 
borders,  as  well  as  the  right  of  return  for  Palestinian 
refugees,  are  not  only  an  Arab  demand;  they  also 
represent  an  international  standard  for  testing  the 
credibility  of  international  legality,  which  should  not 
be divisible. Just as the international community has in 
the past applied the principles of international legality 
to other crises in the world, we should apply the same 
legal  principles  to  all  issues.  We  therefore  call  upon 
the  Security  Council  to  uphold  its  responsibility  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security  and  to  take 
the  decisions  necessary  to  stop  all  illegitimate  Israeli 
practices.
the  policy  of  scorched  earth  and 
Destructive  actions  and  appalling  massacres, 
including 
the 
destruction of cities, continue to be carried out by the 
Syrian regime against its peoples, crossing all red lines 
dictated by ethics and mandated by law, particularly in 
view of the regime’s use of chemical weapons against 
the Syrian people.
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  perpetrators  of  those 
brutal crimes and massacres, which have shocked every 
human conscience, are, undeterred, enjoying impunity 
from  accountability.  That  raises  questions  about  the 
credibility of the human rights and international legality 
mechanisms of the international community.
The  issue  is  not  whether  or  not  Syria  possesses 
chemical  weapons,  because  Syria  is  a  State  that  is  in 
conflict  with  another  State  that  possesses  chemical, 
biological and even nuclear weapons. The issue is the 
use  of  such  weapons  by  the  regime  against  its  own 
people.  The  Syrian  people  did  not  rise  up  in  order  to 
place  Syrian  chemical  weapons  under  international 
supervision. They did so in order to get rid of despotism 
and corruption and to put an end to the injustice they 
have been facing.
We all know that the responsibility for the failure 
to impose the political settlement we would all prefer 
for  Syria  is  due  basically  to  the  Security  Council’s 
inability  to  take  the  decisions  required  to  put  an  end 
to the bloodshed and to the continued intransigence of 
the Syrian regime and its rejection of all regional and 
international initiatives.
From that perspective, the decision-making process 
in  the  Security  Council  must  change,  since  it  lacks 
fairness  and  objectivity.  It  has  also  become  a  major 
obstacle to the maintenance of international peace and 
security  and  to  the  punishment  of  war  criminals  and 
perpetrators of crimes against humanity. We therefore 
reiterate the importance of accelerating comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council in order to make it more 
capable  of  dealing  objectively  with  global  challenges 
and responding to the aspirations of peoples. That can 
be  achieved  only  through  equitable  representation  of 
the international community in the Council, so that it 
can  become  expressive  of  democracy  in  international 
multilateral efforts. 
While  it  is  obviously  impossible  for  any  decision 
to  be  taken  in  the  Council  without  the  support 
of  the  majority  of  the  permanent  member  States, 
decision-making should not be monopolized in the long 
term by one or two States.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  our  Syrian 
brothers  to  unify  their  ranks  in  order  to  initiate  a 
transitional  period  leading  to  the  establishment  of 
a  governing  system  that  guarantees  freedom  and 
dignity  for  all  Syrians,  without  discrimination  on  the 
grounds  of  gender,  nationality,  sect  or  creed.  These 
large numbers of martyrs have not fallen and all these 
sacrifices have not been made by this great people so 
that despotism could be exchanged for chaos or another 
kind of despotism. 
The  Arab  Spring  revolutions,  during  which  the 
Arab people have risen up, calling for freedom, dignity 
and social justice, are now facing difficulties that seem 
to  be  aimed  at  reversing  the  march  of  time.  As  such 
difficulties  had  been  anticipated,  it  is  strange  that 
certain  politicians  have  not  been  able  to  avoid  even 
expected problems.
Anyone who knows the reality of the issues in the 
Arab region and their historical context knows that these 
44/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
revolutions have taken place in the context of a long-
term  historical  process  similar  to  those  experienced 
previously by various peoples in Europe, America, Asia 
and Africa. The path to a just rule and to meeting the 
demands of peoples in all States of the world has never 
been  easy;  it  has  always  been  replete  with  sacrifices. 
It is not easy to follow such a path with patience and 
determination. Rarely have there been revolutions that 
have not been followed by desperate attempts by former 
regimes to abort them. That is why wise people always 
prefer that regime change should take place through a 
process of gradual reform. 
But we also know very well that in some cases, in 
our  region  and  in  other  regions  of  the  world,  change 
could not have taken place through reform. We should 
not jump to hasty conclusions about the future of the 
Arab  revolutions.  This  is  a  historical  necessity  and  a 
long-term one. It is clear that things in the Arab world 
will not revert to the way they were and that the Arab 
peoples  have  become  more  aware  of  their  rights  and 
more involved in the public domain.
The State of Qatar has always opted to be an active 
and  effective  party  playing  a  constructive  role  at  the 
international  level  through  its  balanced  economic 
and  political  relations  at  the  bilateral  and  multilateral 
levels. We will continue to take that approach, so that 
the  State  of  Qatar  can  uphold  its  responsibilities  and 
commitments at the national, regional and international 
levels. The State of Qatar aims to be a hub for dialogue 
and discussion among various parties to conflicts and 
not to be a party to such conflicts. We aim also to create 
opportunities  for  cultural  and  informational  dialogue 
between peoples.
In 
the 
that  context, 
the  process  of  reform  and 
modernity initiated by Qatar, which has made it a State 
of  institutions  and  one  that  is  interacting  positively 
with 
international  community,  was  achieved 
only  through  a  genuine  commitment  to  applying 
the  rule  of  law  and  principles  of  good  governance, 
combating  corruption,  protecting  human  rights  and 
basic  freedoms,  empowering  women  to  participate  in 
public life on an equal footing with men, and creating 
a  healthy  environment  for  children.  In  addition,  our 
national policies have always focused, as a priority, on 
the concerns of young people and on creating a suitable 
educational  environment  for  them  aimed  at  ensuring 
the maximum use of their capacities. 
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, 
in  particular  nuclear  weapons,  in  the  Middle  East  is 
a  very  alarming  issue.  In  that  context,  I  affirm  the 
position  of  the  State  of  Qatar  that  every  State  in  the 
region  has  an  absolute  right  to  use  nuclear  power  for 
peaceful  purposes  in  accordance  with  the  standards 
and  procedures  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency. We also look forward to convening the Helsinki 
conference  as  a  step  that  contributes  to  the  efforts 
aimed at making the Middle East a zone free of nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.
The issue of climate change remains at the top of 
our  concerns,  with  all  its  ramifications  for  the  global 
system  as  a  whole.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
confirm  and  reiterate  the  commitment  of  the  State  of 
Qatar  to  continued  cooperation  with  the  international 
community in facing that challenge and implementing 
the  measures  agreed  upon  during  the  eighteenth 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
which  was  hosted  by  Qatar  at  the  end  of  last  year,  in 
order to develop a road map for tackling the negative 
environmental  and  economic  consequences  of  that 
dangerous phenomenon.
It is worth mentioning that the State of Qatar has 
gone  a  long  way  towards  implementing  the  initiative 
of  the  Global  Dry  Land  Alliance,  which  it  launched 
in order to establish an international organization that 
would  tackle  the  implications  of  that  phenomenon. 
That proposed organization will complement the work 
of  the  other  relevant  international  organizations  in 
combatting desertification and drought and preserving 
the environment without duplicating their work. I call 
upon all Member States to support that initiative.
The  State  of  Qatar  participates  as  an  active  and 
effective  partner  in  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable 
development at the international level. We have pledged 
to allocate the required percentage of our gross national 
product  for  the  least  developed  countries,  in  addition 
to the humanitarian and relief assistance that our State 
provides in cases of emergency and disaster.
In that context, the State of Qatar has achieved the 
majority of the Millennium Development Goals and is 
working towards achieving all the Goals before 2015, as 
demonstrated by United Nations and regional reports in 
that field.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar for the statement he has just made.
13-48449
45/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Amir of the State of Qatar, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II  
of Monaco
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Alberto II of Monaco.
His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  of  Monaco 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Serene  Highness  Prince 
Albert  II  of  Monaco  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
Prince Albert (spoke in French): Twenty years ago 
I  took  the  floor  for  the  first  time  before  the  General 
Assembly. A few months before that, on 28 May 1993, 
Monaco had become the one hundred and eighty-third 
State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  the  smallest 
Member State of the only universal Organization. The 
decision  of  Prince  Rainier  III,  my  father,  reflected 
the will to fully assume our role as a responsible and 
committed State within a changing world, where new 
opportunities  and  new  challenges  were  becoming 
interdependent and transcending borders. 
That  vision  remains  unchanged  over  the  passage 
of  time.  My  country  continues  to  shoulder  all  its 
responsibilities  on  the  major  issues  that  bring  us 
together  here  today.  Faithful  to  its  principles  and  to 
its  past,  the  Principality  of  Monaco  wishes  to  make 
its  contribution  in  the  most  effective  way  possible  to 
the task of building peace, to which we have been so 
attached over the centuries. 
Therefore, inspired by a conviction that our shared 
humanity  requires  that  each  of  us  treat  our  fellow 
human  beings  with  respect  and  dignity,  tolerance 
and  comprehension,  we  have  endorsed  the  values  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which 
we  aspire  together  to  defend  and  to  promote.  That 
important decision to fulfil the responsibility that each 
Member  State  has  is  strengthened  by  the  conviction, 
originating from the holding of the first Earth Summit, 
in  1992,  that  sustainable  development,  without  which 
we cannot aspire to our ideal of peace, must be planned 
with respect for the environment of our planet. 
It is in a sombre international context that we are 
going  to  define  the  post-2015  development  agenda, 
an agenda that will be the cornerstone of the work of 
the  Organization  and  will  be  crucial  to  establishing 
its  political  legitimacy  for  decades  to  come.  The 
growing insecurity in the world, characterized by the 
fragmentation of societies, threatens the progress made 
in  many  fields  and  causes  multidimensional  regional 
instability  that  is  likely  to  further  deepen  existing 
differences. 
The recent attacks perpetrated in Kenya, Pakistan 
and  Iraq  are  another  shocking  illustration  of  that 
problem. They remind us that many parts of the world 
are  still  subject  to  deadly  terrorist  attacks.  Allow  me 
to  extend  to  the  families  of  the  victims  and  to  their 
Government my deepest condolences. 
to  Syria 
I must also speak out against persisting conflicts, 
which hamper development and cause an unacceptable 
humanitarian  situation.  With  regard 
in 
particular,  the  number  of  displaced  civilians  and 
refugees in bordering countries is of great concern. A 
new  threshold  was  crossed  with  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons, an extremely serious violation of international 
law that cannot be tolerated. Monaco associates itself 
with  those  who  continue  to  advocate  for  a  political 
settlement  of  the  conflict,  especially  in  the  light  of 
the  recent  agreement  on  the  control  and  destruction 
of  chemical  weapons  stockpiles  in  Syria.  Those 
responsible for the use of chemical weapons cannot go 
unpunished. 
The  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross, 
which I wish to pay tribute to for its determination to 
fulfil  its  mandate  in  spite  of  difficult  circumstances, 
must be given access to populations in need and must 
be assured that it is able to conduct its activities in full 
security.
The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  attack  on  United 
Nations  staff  in  Baghdad  is  a  sad  reminder  that  we 
need  to  relentlessly  continue  with  our  efforts  on 
behalf  of  United  Nations  staff,  who  too  often  have 
become  deliberate  targets.  That  deplorable  situation 
will  be  given  attention  in  the  coming  world  summit 
on humanitarian aid to be held on the initiative of the 
Secretary-General, which we fully support.
The evolution of factors that lead to humanitarian 
emergencies  forces  us  to  examine  the  ways  in  which 
the Organization can act in such circumstances, which 
include conflicts, natural disasters, climate change and 
46/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
environmental degradation. We must recognize that the 
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, to 
which I express my deepest gratitude, needs to be given 
the means and the resources required for it to carry out 
the mandate we have given it.
To those who criticize or threaten the progress of 
the United Nations, the results accomplished show that 
our courageous political decisions, in the fields of both 
security and development, are timely and positive. 
Together,  in  the  year  2000,  we  defined  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which today 
have  made  it  possible  for  billions  of  people  to  live 
better.  Those  successes  are  all  the  more  remarkable 
given  that  progress  has  been  achieved  in  spite  of  the 
effects  of  many  crises  of  a  financial,  economic,  food 
and energy nature, some of whose consequences linger 
and are even worsening. 
Tomorrow, 
to 
the  special  event  devoted 
the 
MDGs will be an opportunity to reiterate our priority 
commitment to eliminating poverty and an opportunity 
for us to redouble efforts to hasten the achievement of 
the Goals. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  Report  2013
indicates  the  areas  that  require  urgent  action  and  the 
significant  gaps  that  exist,  not  only  among  countries 
but within their borders. We cannot tolerate the fact that 
there are still people who have been rejected by society, 
people  for  whom  the  hope  born  of  a  new  millennium 
remains a broken promise. It is not acceptable that in 
today’s world human beings still live close to complete 
destitution,  where  even  their  basic  needs  go  unmet. 
That is why we applaud the Secretary-General’s efforts 
on behalf of his mobilization campaigns — Education 
First,  “Every  woman,  every  child”  and  Scaling 
Up  Nutrition  —  which  push  us  to  shoulder  our 
responsibilities towards the world’s most vulnerable.
Education, the promotion of women, the protection 
of  children,  public  health  and 
the  conservation 
of  natural  resources  are  priority  elements  in  the 
international cooperation policies that I have outlined. 
They are structured around the eight MDGs, especially 
maternal and child health, the fight against pandemics 
and  neglected  diseases  and  the  promotion  of  food 
security, and in particular they are geared towards the 
least developed countries. It seems to me that a policy 
of  international  cooperation  should  respond  as  much 
as  possible  to  their  interests,  so  that  a  virtuous  circle 
of development can be launched and help build a more 
just, stable and less unequal world.
Important advances have often been accompanied 
or  completed  by  the  adoption  of  measures  emerging 
from 
the  Organization’s  major  conferences  and 
summits. By strengthening the treaty regime on human 
rights, disarmament and the fight against terrorism, and 
through the regimes established by the Security Council, 
Member  States  have  endowed  themselves  with  the 
means to reaffirm their faith in multilateralism, which 
is  the  reason  for  the  Organization’s  existence,  and  in 
the rule of law, which is the foundation of our collective 
action. It is vital that we speed up the implementation 
of the Programme of Action adopted in Istanbul in 2011 
at the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least 
Developed Countries.
The  work  that  lies  ahead  for  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  comes  at  a  turning  point  in  our 
history.  Under  his  leadership,  the  General  Assembly 
must not only speed up the implementation of the MDGs 
but also prepare the post-2015 development agenda and 
define the sustainable development goals in accordance 
with this session’s theme “The post-2015 development 
agenda: setting the stage”.
(spoke in English)
His valuable experience and unreserved dedication 
to the Organization, and to sustainable development in 
particular, will guide our deliberations. We are grateful 
to  have  him,  a  son  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  a  small 
island  developing  State,  presiding  over  the  upcoming 
discussions,  since  we  are  confident  that  he  is  all  too 
familiar with the issues at stake.
(spoke in French)
He  should  also  rest  assured 
that  Monaco’s 
representative,  in  its  capacity  as  Vice-President,  is 
ready to support him in his noble task.
Based on lessons learned from the MDGs, together 
we will build an ambitious new development programme 
capable of responding effectively to the demands of our 
new reality. I have climate change in mind in particular. 
Greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the 
global  level,  despite  the  fact  that  we  have  identified 
climate  change  as  one  of  the  greatest  dangers  of  our 
era. The Secretary-General can count on my country’s 
contribution  to  the  upcoming  summit  on  climate 
change, which he intends to hold next September. His 
willingness to bring together leaders from every sector 
13-48449
47/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
of society — civil society, the private sector, the world 
of business and finance and, above all, young people, 
all of them agents of change — is the only path of hope 
for the radical transformation that is needed. There is 
no alternative to defining a new programme and a new 
paradigm.
At  the  current  rate,  if  we  do  not  change  our 
behaviour,  we  will  need  the  equivalent  of  two  planet 
Earths  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  world’s  population, 
which,  as  we  know,  will  reach  9  billion  in  2050  and 
has  always  been  concentrated  in  urban  and  coastal 
zones,  whose  natural 
resources  are  particularly 
vulnerable. That simple fact should prompt us to adopt 
sustainable  modes  of  production  and  consumption, 
in  accordance  with  the  decisions  taken  at  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. That 
essential change of mindset presupposes that we place 
human beings at the heart of the development issue. It is 
no longer a question of agreeing on development plans 
for agricultural, artisanal and industrial capacities. We 
must consider that it is human societies and individuals 
who  deserve  all  of  our  attention.  We  must  study 
economic and environmental issues in the light of their 
impact on the lives of people and communities. Taking 
those  needs  into  account  means  that  we  must  reflect 
further on how to ensure responsible development that 
respects the environment and is truly sustainable.
The Assembly is aware of my personal commitment 
to issues involving the oceans and seas. In accordance 
with  the  Monaco  Message  on  the  acknowledged 
importance  of  the  oceans  in  “The  future  we  want” 
(resolution  66/288,  annex),  which  was  adopted  in 
November  2011,  I  am  once  again  committing  to 
promoting  the  role  of  the  oceans  in  the  definition  of 
the post-2015 agenda and to reiterating my support for 
a sustainable development goal focusing on the oceans. 
Climate regulation, food and nutrition security, energy, 
tourism, transport and international trade — all areas 
that  directly  or  indirectly  affect  the  oceans  —  are 
linked to the three pillars of sustainable development. 
I think it is also essential to reaffirm how fundamental 
the  oceans  are  to  the  world  and  how  serious  are  the 
risks  presented  to  them  through  the  excessive  human 
activity  that  contributes  to  their  acidification  and  the 
acceleration of the drop in the resources they contain.
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  say  how  crucial  I 
believe it is that the international community address the 
status of the high seas without delay, and how urgent it 
is that protected marine areas be established, especially 
in  the  polar  regions.  If  the  viability  and  sustainable 
management  of  the  oceans  are  to  be  achieved,  only 
an  unswerving  political  willingness  to  form  strong 
partnerships that unite all the parties concerned will be 
able to combat the effects of the overfishing, pollution 
and  acidification  of  the  oceans  and  restore  them  to 
health and productivity.
Strengthening cooperation and partnerships, as well 
as deciding on concrete action, are also at the heart of 
the preparations for the third International Conference 
on Small Island Developing States, to which I want to 
give my full support, along with a needed boost in the 
solidarity  that  is  essential  to  promoting  sustainable 
development.
The stakes are clear. Let us, who wish to reaffirm 
the  central  place  that  the  Organization  occupies  in 
international  governance,  give  it  the  means  to  assure 
that  leadership  role  by  being  ambitious  and  resolute 
in our task. Let us remember the words of the novelist 
Antoine  de  Saint-Exupéry:  “Being  a  human  being 
means being responsible”.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco for the statement 
he has just made.
Prince Albert II of Monaco was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Zuma:  It  is  an  honour  and  a  privilege 
for  me  to  once  again  address  this  body.  South  Africa 
attaches the utmost importance to the General Assembly 
as the most representative and democratic organ of the 
United Nations serving the international community.
48/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
We congratulate President Ashe and the Republic of 
Antigua and Barbuda on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. We also 
thank Mr. Vuk Jeremić for the splendid way in which he 
presided over the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session.
Let  me  begin  by  reiterating  our  condemnation  of 
the horrific terrorist attack over the weekend in Kenya, 
in  which  a  number  of  civilians,  including  a  South 
African national, were killed. We express our deepest 
condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of  Kenya 
and to all those families who lost loved ones, and wish 
the wounded survivors a speedy recovery. We continue 
to  support  the  efforts  of  Kenya  and  the  international 
community aimed at peacekeeping, stability, democracy 
and nation-building in Somalia.
The  theme  for  our  debate  this  year,  “The  post-
2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  is  most 
appropriate.  In  the  year  2000,  the  commitment  was 
made by world leaders in the Millennium Declaration 
to eradicate extreme poverty and adopt the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). The MDGs are measurable 
and achievable targets that were specifically crafted to 
address  the  most  pressing  development  needs  of  the 
most vulnerable countries. The full implementation of 
the MDGs remains the key priority on the development 
agenda for the next two years.
A  development  agenda  for  beyond  2015  should 
allow  individual  regions  and  States  the  space  to 
address  the  development  needs  peculiar  to  their 
circumstances and priorities. For Africa in particular, 
the future development agenda should address poverty 
eradication,  income  inequality  and  job  creation.  We 
furthermore believe that the new development agenda 
can  be  effective  only  if  it  is  focused  on  all  three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development,  namely,  the 
eradication of poverty through economic development, 
social development and environmental sustainability.
We  also  wish  to  emphasize  that  any  development 
agenda  beyond  2015  must  be  based  on  the  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities 
in 
order  to  equalize  the  international  playing  field.  We 
raise  this  point  out  of  our  concern  that  the  global 
economic meltdown seems to have brought about new 
developments  that  are  detrimental  to  the  developing 
world, especially Africa. Some of the new developments 
include  the  tendency  to  renegotiate  the  rules  of  the 
game. New issues are being introduced as prerequisites 
for  development  and  partnerships  and  have,  in  fact, 
become huge non-tariff barriers. They include the green 
economy and clean technology. While those issues are 
important for Africa and developing countries and need 
to be attended to, the manner in which they have been 
crafted  restrains  economic  development,  as  they  are 
used as obstacles.
We also wish to emphasize our expectations that the 
developed  North  and  developing  South  will  continue 
to  engage  in  a  genuine  partnership.  In  that  regard, 
the  developed  North  countries  should  stand  ready  to 
meet  their  commitment  to  contribute  0.7  per  cent  of 
their  gross  national  income  to  official  development 
assistance.
We are aware of the challenges in the North caused 
by the economic meltdown, but we are of the view that 
investing  in  development  in  the  South,  especially  in 
Africa, is of primary importance as a source of much-
needed  sustainable  development  and  stability  in  the 
world.  Attempts  to  delegate  some  of  those  historical 
responsibilities to new emerging economies in the South 
are  unacceptable  and  unworkable,  as  such  emerging 
nations  have  their  own  historical  challenges  and 
backlogs  to  deal  with.  Furthermore,  any  commitment 
we  make  to  the  future  beyond  2015  must  build  on 
existing  agreements,  which  include  Agenda  21,  the 
MDGs, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and 
the outcome document of the Rio de Janeiro Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development.  In  the  case  of  Africa, 
they  must  build  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development.
Development  and  security  are  two  sides  of  the 
same coin. The best way to ensure both is through good 
governance and the promotion of democratic values in 
all societies. Allow me, therefore, to register once again 
our serious concern that the Security Council, almost 
70 years since its establishment, remains undemocratic, 
unrepresentative and unfair to developing nations and 
small  States,  and  disenfranchises  the  majority  of  the 
States Members of the United Nations, which form the 
majority  in  the  General  Assembly.  We  cannot  remain 
beholden indefinitely to the will of an unrepresentative 
minority on the most important issues of international 
peace and security.
There  has  been  too  much  talk  about  the  need  for 
reform, with too little action. We would like to challenge 
the Assembly today by saying “Let us set ourselves the 
target  to  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations in 2015 with a reformed, more inclusive, 
democratic and representative Security Council!”.
13-48449
49/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
When discussing the Security Council, the matter 
of the Syrian Arab Republic comes into focus. We have 
expressed our dismay at the use of chemical weapons 
in  Syria.  There  is  no  cause  that  could  justify  the  use 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  by  anyone  under  any 
circumstances.  It  is,  however,  our  strongly  held  view 
that any political transition in Syria must come about as 
a result of the will of the Syrian people and not through 
the force of arms.
We  welcome  the  recent  positive  developments, 
such as the decision by Syria to accede to the Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  and 
the  ongoing  bilateral 
consultations  between  the  Russian  Federation  and 
the  United  States.  We  support  all  of  the  diplomatic 
efforts aimed at finding a solution to this matter. The 
international community has an opportunity to use the 
Syrian experience to ensure that matters of this nature 
are  handled  correctly  going  forward,  using  existing 
instruments  within  the  multilateral  system  of  global 
governance.
Next year South Africa will celebrate its twentieth 
anniversary of freedom and democracy. We will forever 
be  grateful  to  those  in  the  international  community, 
including  the  United  Nations,  who  stood  beside  us  in 
our  long  struggle  for  liberation.  We  look  forward  to 
celebrating our anniversary of freedom with the United 
Nations and to strengthening our partnership. A strong 
partnership with the United Nations is critical for the 
future we want for the people of South Africa. 
We also take this opportunity to thank the United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  for  their 
support during the recent hospitalization of our beloved 
founding  President  of  the  free  and  democratic  South 
Africa, His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela. We thank 
them  for  all  for  their  support  and  good  wishes.  The 
United Nations declared 18 July, his birthday, as Nelson 
Mandela International Day. That has become a catalyst 
promoting  service 
to  humankind  worldwide.  We 
thank the United Nations for that gesture. Our revered 
former  President  continues  to  respond  to  treatment 
at  his  home.  His  family  and  our  people  have  warmly 
welcomed the support he continues to receive from the 
global community. We are humbled and very grateful 
for that support.
As  we  celebrate  our  freedom  and  democracy,  we 
remain mindful that our struggle is not complete until 
the  people  of  Palestine  and  Western  Sahara  enjoy 
their  rights  to  self-determination.  Just  as  the  United 
Nations stood by South Africa, we would like to see the 
Organization be at the forefront of efforts towards self-
determination for the peoples of Palestine and Western 
Sahara.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  continued  illegal 
settlement  activities  in  the  West  Bank  in  violation  of 
international  law.  Such  illegal  settlement  activities 
jeopardize the realization of the two-State solution.
The Cuban people also hold a special place in our 
hearts  because  of  that  country’s  sacrifice  for  African 
peoples  in  their  quest  for  freedom.  We  will  therefore 
continue  to  struggle  with  them  for  their  economic 
liberation.
At  its  sixty-eighth  session  the  General  Assembly 
will undertake critical work for the future of our people. 
Let us tackle the work ahead in such a manner that when 
future generations look back on this moment, they will 
be able to say that the leaders of this generation laid the 
foundation for the eradication of poverty, for building a 
global society of equality, and for world peace.
Let  me  borrow  from  the  words  of  our  former 
President  Nelson  Mandela  on  his  inauguration  day  in 
1994 when he said:
“We  understand  it  still  that  there  is  no  easy 
road  to  freedom.  We  know  it  well  that  none  of 
us  acting  alone  can  achieve  success.  We  must 
therefore  act  together  as  a  united  people,  for 
national reconciliation, for nation-building, for the 
birth  of  a  new  world.  Let  there  be  justice  for  all. 
Let there be peace for all. Let there be work, bread, 
water and salt for all. Let each know that for each 
the body, the mind and the soul have been freed to 
fulfil themselves.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President  
of Ukraine
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Ukraine.
Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
50/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Viktor  Yanukovych, 
President of Ukraine, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Yanukovych 
in  Ukrainian; 
interpretation provided by the delegation):  First  of  all, 
on behalf of Ukraine, I sincerely congratulate Mr. John 
William Ashe on his election to serve as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I wish 
him  success  and  fruitful  work  as  he  discharges  this 
important role.
The  theme  of  the  present  session,  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”, is undoubtedly 
important  for  every  Member  State.  The  deadline  for 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  fast 
approaching,  and  the  task  of  producing  the  ambitious 
post-2015  action  plan  is  becoming  ever  more  urgent 
for  the  international  community.  I  am  glad  that 
practical  work  on  implementing  that  task  has  already 
been  launched.  Its  current  intensity  is  confirmed  by 
two  important  events:  the  General  Assembly  special 
event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  inaugural 
meeting of the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable 
Development.
I  am  convinced  that  the  actions  planned  by  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  will  allow  for 
substantial acceleration during the sixty-eighth session 
of the work on elaboration of development goals for the 
upcoming period. We consider the innovative national 
consultations mechanisms, which are being successfully 
applied  in  the  case  of  Ukraine,  an  important  element 
of this work. Ukraine stands ready to be engaged fully 
and  with  maximum  efficiency  in  these  developments, 
which  are  extremely  important  for  the  international 
community.
The  topic  of  sustainable  energy  as  an  item  of  the 
post-2015 agenda is of particular significance to us. A 
new,  inclusive  approach  to  that  issue  must  ensure  the 
comprehensive  consideration  of  security,  social  and 
environmental  aspects.  Only  such  an  approach  will 
facilitate sustainable development of energy, especially 
as  regards  the  efficiency  and  safety  of  the  nuclear 
sector. That objective would be favoured by the further 
development of and joint action on the implementation 
of  the  outcomes  of  Kyiv  Summit  on  the  Safe  and 
Innovative Use of Nuclear Energy, which was held in 
April 2011.
Ukraine,  which  experienced  the  worst  nuclear 
accident in the history of humankind, is well aware of 
the  priority  importance  of  issues  of  ecological  safety, 
the  comprehensive  conservation  of  the  environment 
and  prudent  management  of  water  resources.  We 
encourage  Member  States  to  intensify  international 
interaction in this field as part of their observation of 
the  International  Year  of  Water  Cooperation  and  the 
twentieth anniversary of World Water Day.
education, 
environmental 
Ukraine  will  continue  to  diligently  do  its  part 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  at 
the  national  level.  We  are  eager  to  establish  positive 
momentum  on  many  key  national  development 
indicators. These indicators include poverty alleviation, 
quality 
conservation, 
maternal  health  improvement  and  child  mortality 
reduction,  among  others.  The  leading  catalyst  for 
Ukraine’s  progress  towards  the  Goals  is  the  reform 
programme,  which  is  the  largest  such  programme  in 
the recent history of our country, aimed at both social 
and  economic  transformations  as  well  as  the  further 
strengthening of the democratic system and the rule of 
law. The fundamental basis for internal transformation 
in  Ukraine  will  continue  to  be  supremacy  of  the 
principle of social justice.
We  also  view  Ukraine’s  European  integration 
aspirations  in  the  light  of  sustainable  development. 
These  aspirations  are  a  determining  vector  for  the 
country’s development. Ukraine makes its contribution 
to  the  greater  European  project,  which  unites  the 
interests and development goals of the countries of the 
West  to  those  of  the  East  of  our  continent.  I  strongly 
believe that the signing in November of the Association 
Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, 
including  the  creation  of  a  Deep  and  Comprehensive 
Free  Trade  Area,  will  be  an  important  tool  in  raising 
the  welfare  of  Ukrainian  citizens  and  will  duly  assist 
our country in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals.
lasting  peace 
It  has  long  been  broadly  agreed  that  sustainable 
development is impossible without efficient international 
security.  Conversely, 
impossible 
without  sustainable  development.  Events  since  last 
year’s  debate  have  clearly  shown  the  inconsistency 
and  instability  of  the  world  today.  It  is  a  world  that, 
despite  our  common  efforts,  has  not  embarked  on  a 
more  even  and  reliable  trajectory  of  universal  peace. 
On the contrary, according to the Global Peace Index, 
is 
13-48449
51/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
our world has become less safe than it was five years 
ago.
One of the most painful security problems of today 
is  the  civil  conflict  in  Syria,  which,  unfortunately,  is 
increasingly crossing borders and becoming the source 
of threats on a regional scale. There is no justification 
for bloodshed and suffering of the civilian population, 
including  women  and  children,  more  than  1.5  million 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  and  tens 
of  thousands  of  foreign  citizens  who  have  found 
themselves  in  danger.  We  must  do  everything  in  our 
power to allay the pain and to contain and heal the open 
wound of his conflict as soon as possible.
In our joint actions to settle the conflict, we have 
to rely on humanistic values, sobriety, competence and 
mutual responsibility. Ukraine has extended its helping 
hand to the Syrian population by rendering assistance 
through  United  Nations  mechanisms.  Today,  we  urge 
the entire international community to take part in that 
humanitarian mission.
We  welcome  the  plan  produced  by  Russia  and 
the  United  States  to  place  the  Syrian  stockpiles  of 
chemical weapons under the control of the international 
community  for  their  subsequent  destruction.  At  the 
same  time,  Ukraine  is  convinced  that  the  successful 
implementation  of  that  plan  would  give  hope  for  that 
conflict to be brought under control and leave space for a 
political and diplomatic settlement. It is time to promote 
the establishment of as wide a platform as possible so as 
to  reach,  through  multilateral  negotiations,  a  political 
solution that will make it possible to restore peace and 
stability in Syria.
With  respect  to  pressing  problems  in  the  context 
of contemporary international security, I would like to 
draw  attention  to  the  issue  of  cybersecurity,  which  is 
becoming increasingly important given the development 
of  the  information  society.  Ukraine  attaches  great 
significance to that issue as well as to the development 
of up-to-date mechanisms to combat cybercrimes.
We believe that we should focus on strengthening 
control over the use of the Internet and cyberspace for 
criminal  purposes  and  for  other  dangerous,  primarily 
military ends. I am convinced that this process should 
be  led  by  the  United  Nations.  The  United  Nations  is 
the best instrument for transforming the Internet into a 
space of freedom that works in the interests and to the 
benefit of all nations throughout the world.
I believe that it is within our power to make the world 
safer. The ideals of peace and the peaceful coexistence 
of nations are not hollow words for Ukraine but a clear 
guideline  that  has  informed  all  of  our  actions  on  the 
international stage since we became independent. That 
imperative  is  at  the  heart  of  every  step  and  initiative 
taken  by  our  country  in  the  world  arena.  The  fact 
that  this  year  Ukraine  holds  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE) — the largest international regional forum — is 
a  vivid  example  of  that  commitment.  It  is  an  honour 
for us, and we view our responsible mission primarily 
as  a  mechanism  for  the  consolidation  of  security  and 
stability in Europe. 
The Ukrainian chairmanship focuses in particular 
on  the  settlement  of  protracted  conflicts  and  the 
resumption  of  control  over  conventional  weapons 
within the OSCE area, the combat against trafficking 
in human beings and other very pressing issues on the 
Organization’s agenda. I wish to underline that in every 
sector  I  have  mentioned,  some  limited  but  practically 
meaningful progress has been achieved.
Ukraine has also been able to give added urgency 
to  the  issues  of  energy  security  and  environmental 
safety issues for the OSCE and take the issue of energy 
efficiency  to  a  new  level.  I  am  confident  that  the 
successful realization of the priorities of the Ukrainian 
chairmanship  will  allow  for 
intensifying  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE.
The year 2014 will mark the twentieth anniversary 
of  Ukraine’s  accession 
the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a non-nuclear-
weapon State. By ridding the world of its third-largest 
nuclear  arsenal,  our  country  made  an  unprecedented 
contribution  to  global  nuclear  disarmament.  It  was  at 
that  time  that  Ukraine,  the  Russian  Federation,  Great 
Britain and the United States concluded the Budapest 
Memorandum on Security Assurances, joined later by 
France and China.
the  Treaty  on 
the 
to 
In  view  of  the  historical  significance  of  those 
events  and  considering  the  recent  alarming  trends  in 
nuclear proliferation, Ukraine will initiate the holding, 
at  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  of  a 
thematic conference. We expect that guarantor States, 
countries  that  followed  Ukraine’s  example  and  other 
interested  parties  will  participate.  I  hope  that  this 
international event will be a good opportunity to come 
back  to  the  issue  of  negative  security  assurances  and 
give it thorough consideration.
52/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
We stress that security assurances for those States 
that  gave  up  their  nuclear  arsenals  and  countries  that 
are not part of military unions must be reflected in a 
legally binding international document.
We  look  forward  to  the  holding  of  a  successful 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  in  The  Hague  next  year. 
Ukraine  looks  to  that  global  forum  to  produce  new 
qualitative outcomes and encourages all other countries 
to make appropriate contributions to that cause.
Ukraine,  as  a  maritime  State,  deploys  continuing 
efforts  to  secure  maritime  navigation  safety  and  to 
combat piracy at sea. The primary task in that field is to 
reinforce the efficacy of mechanisms for the prosecution 
of those guilty of perpetrating and financing piracy. 
We will further contribute to the strengthening of 
peace through our active participation in United Nations 
missions in hotspots throughout the world. In its more 
than 20 years of participation in peacekeeping activities 
under the auspices of the United Nations, Ukraine has 
contributed  to  more  than  20  such  operations.  Today 
its  agenda  includes  the  consolidation  and  expansion 
of that experience in the context of the United Nations 
missions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Côte d’Ivoire.
At  the  same  time,  we  cannot  but  take  note  of 
the  existing  problems  with  respect  to  the  current 
peacekeeping activities of our Organization. Along with 
other countries that are contributors of Blue Helmets, 
we will continue to work to solve them, particularly as 
regards ensuring the mobility and safety of air operations 
as well as the legal protection of peacekeepers and the 
investigation of crimes committed against them.
Ukraine  will  make  further  significant  practical 
contributions aimed at making the world safer. To that 
end,  we  will  use  all  available  instruments,  especially 
non-permanent membership in the Security Council if 
our country is elected to that body for the period 2016-
2017. I count on support for the candidacy of Ukraine 
in those elections.
Our  country  is  fully  committed  to  the  collective 
security system enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations. The system, which has proved indispensable, 
will remain the foundation of the world order.
Ukraine  upholds  President  Ashe’s  decisive 
determination 
long-expected  practical 
advances  in  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
believe  that  it  is  critically  important  to  achieve  early 
to  achieve 
progress in the modernization of the Security Council. 
We have great concern about the present stagnancy of 
the process.
I  would  like  to  confirm  once  again  the  readiness 
of Ukraine to discuss all progressive concepts related 
to  Security  Council  reform  that  could  accelerate  the 
implementation  of  the  long-overdue  changes.  We 
consider  that  such  reform  must  take  into  account  the 
legitimate interests of all regional groups, including the 
Eastern  European  group.  The  countries  of  our  region 
should be allocated one additional non-permanent seat 
in an enlarged Security Council.
All  preconditions  have  been  met  for  the  sixty-
eighth session of the General Assembly to go down in 
history as one of the most fruitful in terms of the work 
of the United Nations, a key political body that is the 
most  representative  of  all  world  organizations.  I  am 
firmly convinced that the community of nations is up 
to the task. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Ukraine for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Rajapaksa:  At  the  outset,  I  offer  my 
condolences to the families whose loved ones died as 
a  result  of  the  terrorist  attack  on  a  shopping  mall  in 
Kenya.  Having  suffered  many  terrorist  attacks  over 
nearly  three  decades,  we  Sri  Lankans  condemn  this 
cowardly act.
The  United  Nations  has  consistently  ensured 
cooperation  among  States  and  provided  a  universal 
13-48449
53/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
platform for discussions on a range of issues, contentious 
or otherwise. It is imperative that we jealously protect 
and abide by the principle of equal treatment of countries 
that has been the very basis of this global Organization. 
Be  it  on  economic  or  political  issues,  equality  must 
form the bedrock of all international interactions.
Sri Lanka’s sense of pride in our early recognition 
of  the  crucial  role  women  play  in  political  and 
socioeconomic development is amply warranted, as we 
elected the world’s first female Prime Minister, the late 
Mrs.  Sirimavo  Bandaranaike.  Sri  Lanka  was  ranked 
sixteenth in the Global Gender Gap Report 2010.
Reflecting on the work of the United Nations, we 
note that matters of a political nature have overridden 
the  most  basic  issues  that  affect  the  underprivileged 
and  marginalized  who  make  up  the  majority  of 
world  society.  The  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) brought about a real sense 
of  optimism.  The  theme  for  this  session  is  timely,  as 
progress in the MDGs should be evaluated, with their 
deadline fast approaching.
Appreciable progress has been made in the MDGs, 
although  the  results  are  uneven  among  and  within 
countries.  According  to  World  Bank  projections,  by 
2015 sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia will be home 
to approximately 40 per cent of the developing world’s 
population living in extreme poverty. This diminishes 
our  sense  of  optimism.  It  is  fitting  for  the  United 
Nations system to examine the causes of the failure in 
improving the lot of the deprived.
In the context of Sri Lanka, my vision has been to 
distribute  the  benefits  of  growth  across  all  segments 
of  the  population  and  to  prevent  inequalities,  social 
exclusion  and  adverse  environmental  effects.  The 
socioeconomic  achievements  in  my  country  are  the 
result of people-centric Government policies.
Despite  the  fact  that  my  country  has  had  to 
contend with one of the most ruthless terrorist groups 
in  the  world,  the  2004  tsunami  and  the  global  food, 
energy  and  financial  crises,  Sri  Lanka’s  attainment 
of  the  MDGs  is  exemplary.  The  statistics  speak  for 
themselves. Sri Lanka was ranked ninety-second out of 
187 countries in the 2012 Human Development Index. 
Absolute poverty in Sri Lanka declined to 6.5 per cent 
in 2012 from 15.2 per cent over a period of five years, 
surpassing the MDG mid-term target.
The  goal  of  universal  primary  education  will  be 
easily  achieved  by  2015.  The  key  dividend  from  this 
strong  educational  infrastructure  has  been  a  drastic 
reduction  in  the  unemployment  level.  Sri  Lanka’s 
accomplishments  in  health  care  include  an  infant 
mortality rate of 9.4 per 1,000 live births, highlighted 
by UNICEF as a success story.
Sri Lanka has mainstreamed the issue of youth in 
its post-2015 development agenda and is at the forefront 
of  international  efforts  advocating  the  interests  of 
youth.  Sri  Lanka  will  be  hosting  the  Commonwealth 
Youth Forum 2013 in November and the United Nations 
World  Conference  on  Youth  in  May  2014.  I  take  this 
opportunity to extend an invitation to all Member States 
to join in celebrating youth at the World Conference. 
I  also  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  declare  an 
international  skills  day  as  recognition  of  the  way  in 
which skills development for youth paves the way for 
reduced poverty. An innovative development has been 
the  establishment  of  a  Youth  Parliament  to  sharpen 
the awareness of democracy and skills among the new 
generation and prepare them to assume leadership.
It is of the utmost importance that Member States 
individually  decide  on  their  own  means  to  achieve 
the  MDGs.  The  unique  sociocultural  practices  and 
traditions  of  countries  should  be  taken  into  account 
when designing these processes.
The post-2015 development agenda needs to be an 
intergovernmental  process,  in  line  with  the  outcomes 
and agreed principles of the United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20).  Centuries  of 
growth  in  advanced  economies  have  left  little  carbon 
space for the developing world, thus challenging their 
growth. The thin line on which economic development 
and  protection  of  the  environment  must  be  balanced 
will  remain  a  great  challenge  in  future  development 
policy-setting.  It  is  therefore  critical  that  developed 
countries  honour  their  commitments  and  compensate 
for  their  damage  to  the  environment  on  the  basis  of 
common but differentiated responsibilities.
The  eradication  of  poverty  must  be  the  primary 
goal  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  and  must 
promote  accelerated  economic  growth  in  developing 
countries.  Ensuring  sustainable  growth  with  social 
equity  demands  a  balanced  approach  to  development. 
High  rates  of  investment,  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
quality of human capital and technology transfers are 
crucial for sustainable growth.
54/56 
13-48449
24/09/2013 
A/68/PV.5
The  mechanisms  on  financing  and  technology 
mandated by Rio+20 need to be urgently implemented. 
The sustainable development financing strategy, in its 
formulation,  must  seek  to  provide  for  enhanced  and 
predictable  financial  support  to  developing  countries. 
Sri Lanka supports the establishment of a technology 
facilitation  mechanism  under  the  United  Nations, 
recommended 
report 
(A/67/348).  The  mighty  advocates  of  rights-based 
approaches  should  also  honour  their  international 
commitments relating to development financing.
the  Secretary-General’s 
in 
Calls  for  reforms  in  the  current  international 
financial institutions continue to be relevant. Their ad 
hoc  policies  have  proven  to  be  untenable  in  the  long 
run. It is imperative for the international monetary and 
financial  institutions  to  give  expression  to  the  solid 
voice of the developing world. Also, those countries that 
are  economically  blessed  must  shed  their  practice  of 
leveraging through those institutions. A comprehensive 
structural  reform  of  the  existing  imperfect  global 
economic order needs to be fully addressed to reflect 
current realities.
The world is in need of a fair international economic 
system  to  revitalize  partnerships  for  development. 
That  includes  State  and  non-State  actors  and  blue 
chip  companies  emerging  as  new  partners.  Moreover, 
South-South cooperation is crucial due to the shift in 
economic  power  and  should  be  actively  promoted  to 
complement North-South cooperation.
It  is  disturbing  to  observe  the  growing  trend  in 
the international arena of interference by some in the 
internal  matters  of  developing  countries  in  the  guise 
of  ensuring  security  and  guarding  human  rights. 
Therefore, we continue to witness agitation the world 
over,  leading  to  violence  and  forcing  political  change 
accompanied  by  turmoil.  It  is  time  to  contemplate 
whether  such  movements  have  led  to  better  stability 
in  those  countries  or  produced  different  results  due 
to  inappropriate  external  factors.  In  fact,  the  positive 
outcomes  envisaged  by  those  responsible  have  not 
come to pass, but indeed contributed to making those 
countries unstable. Do unilateral or group actions not 
erode the authority of the Security Council?
That  trend  needs  to  be  arrested,  as  it  has  now 
extended into areas where it is detrimental to the well-
being of populations. The turmoil results from attempts 
to  impose  a  type  of  democracy  upon  countries  with 
significantly different cultures, values and history. The 
world  needs  no  policing  by  a  few  States,  particularly 
when  the  United  Nations  is  mandated  to  ensure 
international security through multilateral engagement. 
That  engagement,  to  be  complete  in  our  time,  must 
ensure  the  protection  of  the  human  race  against  the 
flagrant  abuse  of  modern  science  in  such  forms  as 
nuclear and chemical weapons.
Deepening  uncertainties  in  the  Middle  East  are 
disturbing. We await the coexistence of Palestine and 
Israel on the basis of pre-1967 borders. Sri Lanka looks 
forward to welcoming Palestine as a full Member of the 
United Nations.
We  salute  the  people  of  Africa  in  their  efforts 
to  achieve  better  living  conditions  and  economic 
prosperity.  Sri  Lanka  continues 
to  demonstrate 
solidarity  with  the  African  people  in  their  pursuit  of 
further socioeconomic growth.
Unilateral  measures,  such  as  embargoes  and 
imposed  on  countries,  are 
economic  sanctions 
disturbing.  Such  initiatives  bring  suffering  not  only 
to  those  specifically  targeted,  but  to  a  wide  range  of 
humankind  without  any  justification.  Yet  again,  I 
stand in support of the people of Cuba in overcoming 
economic  hardships  and  in  gaining  full  access  to 
economic opportunity.
Permit  me  to  address  briefly  the  post-conflict 
developments in my own country. I am proud that Sri 
Lanka  has  eradicated  separatist  terrorism  spanning 
three  decades  and  is  in  the  process  of  addressing  the 
issues  of  development  and  reconciliation.  Sri  Lanka’s 
Government,  at  all  times  responsive  to  the  priorities 
reflected in public opinion, is engaged in all measures 
required for meaningful progress in those fields.
in 
that  regard  was 
A  significant  event 
the 
opportunity  that  the  people  of  Northern  province 
enjoyed  at  the  elections,  held  three  days  ago,  to  elect 
their  representatives  in  the  provincial  council.  It  is  a 
matter  of  legitimate  satisfaction  to  me  that  this  was 
made possible after the lapse of almost a quarter of a 
century.  There  can  be  no  doubt  regarding  the  crucial 
importance of that measure in the context of political 
empowerment  and  reconciliation.  It  is  clearly  the 
responsibility of the international community to assist 
with  those  efforts  and  to  ensure  their  success  for  the 
benefit of all the people of Sri Lanka.
In spite of the visible progress made and consistent 
engagement  with  United  Nations  mechanisms, 
many  countries  are  surprised  at  the  disproportionate 
13-48449
55/56
A/68/PV.5 
24/09/2013
emphasis on Sri Lanka and its unequal treatment in the 
multilateral  framework.  The  basis  for  that  relentless 
pursuit is also questioned. It is my conviction that the 
United Nations system should be astute in ensuring the 
consistency of standards applied so that there is no room 
for  suspicion  of  manipulation  of  the  United  Nations 
system by interested parties to fulfil their agendas.
By  nature,  human  beings  have  the  capacity  to 
achieve  the  most  challenging  and  noble  goals  in  life 
through  strong  commitment  and  dedication.  I  am 
confident  that,  by  our  own  collective  efforts,  those 
results  will  prove  to  be  beneficial  to  all  humankind. 
As Buddha, the Enlightened One, said, “Atta hi attano 
natho” — “You are your own master.” Let those timeless 
words of wisdom guide the destiny of the world. May 
the Noble Triple Gem bless us all. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 3.40 p.m.
56/56 
13-48449
