United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
48th plenary meeting
Friday, 8 November 2013, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.48
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Miculescu 
(Romania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda items 29 and 123 (continued)
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/68/2)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters
Mr.  Nkoloi  (Botswana):  Let  me,  at  the  outset, 
thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  this  very  important  debate.  I  also  wish  to 
thank the Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassador  Tanin,  for  continuing  to  consult  us  and 
engage  with  as  we  search  for  a  solution  to  this  long-
pending question.
It  has  now  been  over  five  years  since 
the 
General  Assembly  adopted  decision  62/557,  on 
15 September 2008, which was aimed at launching the 
intergovernmental process. We are concerned about the 
slow pace of negotiations.
My delegation wishes to stress the great importance 
we  attach  to  the  question  of  equitable  representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  believe  that  this  is  an  imperative  whose 
time has come. We therefore welcome the resumption 
of the negotiations and urge the Chair of the process, 
Ambassador Tanin, to garner all the necessary strength 
and  resilience  to  drive  the  process  to  its  logical 
conclusion.  My  delegation  pledges  its  utmost  support 
and  commits  to  engaging  in  constructive  and  open 
dialogue.
the  maintenance  of 
The Security Council remains the most important 
organ of the United Nations, whose primary mandate 
is 
international  peace  and 
security.  However,  it  is  regrettable  that  ever  since 
its  establishment,  in  1945,  the  Council  has  lacked, 
and  still  lacks,  adequate  geographic  and  democratic 
representation of the United Nations membership.
It defies human logic that Africa still remains the 
only  unrepresented  constituency  in  such  a  body,  the 
legitimacy  and  strength  of  which  must  derive  from 
the  totality  of  its  membership.  While  all  regions  of 
the  world  are  represented  and  have  a  footprint  in  the 
Council,  Africa  is  still  relegated  to  the  back  bench, 
with no voice, no power and no presence to influence 
the key decisions of that powerful institution.
My  delegation  believes  that  it  is  now  time  to 
reform  the  character,  shape  and  working  methods  of 
the  Council  in  order  to  bring  them  in  line  with  the 
realities  of  contemporary  international  relations.  It 
is  for  that  reason  that  we  remain  committed  to  the 
intergovernmental negotiations aimed at addressing the 
historical imbalances of the Council and bringing about 
improvements  in  its  decision-making  and  working 
methods.
In  line  with  both  Africa’s  position  and  that  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  my  delegation 
holds  the  view  that  the  reform  of  the  Council  should 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-55456 (E)
*1355456*
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
be  comprehensive,  transparent  and  inclusive.  While 
stressing the importance and primacy of the Charter of 
the United Nations, we reiterate our long-held position 
that the envisaged reform of the Council should result 
in a more effective and efficient body. In that context, 
it is our hope and expectation that the reform process 
will  embrace  the  following  elements:  the  categories 
of membership, regional representation, the size of an 
enlarged Council, the working methods, and, of course, 
the veto question.
the 
resumption  of 
While  welcoming 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  wish  to  caution 
Member  States  that  it  is  very  important  to  remain 
open-minded  and  flexible  in  our  debate.  There  is  no 
wisdom  in  sticking  to  known  positions.  Negotiations 
are  by  nature  a  give-and-take  process.  We  need  to 
compromise.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Egypt on behalf of NAM 
(see  A/68/PV.46)  and  would  like  to  reiterate  Africa’s 
position, as contained in the Ezulwini Consensus.
The African position is loud and clear. It is inspired 
by the desire to see the continent take its rightful place 
among the community of nations in making key global 
decisions. That position proposes the expansion of the 
Council  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories. Furthermore, the African position views the 
question of the veto as divisive, exclusive and subject 
to abuse by the veto-wielding Powers. Africa therefore 
wishes to see a review of the veto power with a view 
to abolishing it. If it is not abolished, then a reformed 
Council,  which  must  include  Africa,  must  extend  the 
veto  power  to  the  new  permanent  members  without 
exception.
We  therefore  have  every  confidence  that,  as 
we  resume  these  negotiations,  we  shall  take  into 
consideration  all  the  proposals  brought  forward  by 
various groups, find areas of convergence and build on 
the  consensus  on  them.  After  all,  we  are  all  here  not 
to dismember or render ineffective our most cherished 
body. We are here to enrich it, find common ground and 
address the limitations that are already apparent in the 
Council, with a view to strengthening it. We trust that 
a solution will be found to propel the Council to greater 
heights as we continue to serve humankind for future 
generations.
Mr. Gasana (Rwanda): At the outset, let me thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this plenary meeting and most especially for the items 
on  the  agenda:  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to 
the  General  Assembly,  and  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  I  thank 
you, Madam President, for allowing me to present the 
position of my country on the subject matter.
With regard to the report of the Security Council to 
the General Assembly (A/68/2), I thank my colleague 
and  current  President  of 
the  Security  Council, 
Ambassador Liu Jieyi, for his introduction of the report 
(see A/68/PV.46), and the United States delegation for 
its hard work in preparing it. The report of the Security 
Council  to  the  Assembly  is  a  good  mechanism  for 
the  transparency  and  accountability  of  the  Council. 
Rwanda will continue to support any and all initiatives 
aimed at opening up the Council to the participation of 
the general United Nations membership, especially the 
participation  of  those  directly  concerned  by  Security 
Council decisions.
On  the  general  discussion  on  Security  Council 
reform, allow me to first commend the President of the 
Assembly  for  his  leadership  and  demonstrated  effort 
to move forward on this debate aimed at reforming the 
Security Council, as demonstrated by his decision to set 
up an advisory group to provide input to help kick-start 
the  process  of  text-based  negotiations.  That  initiative 
is  a  clear  demonstration  of  his  strong  commitment 
to  make  substantive  progress  in  the  process.  The 
Security  Council  reform  process  is  aimed  at  better 
reflecting contemporary realities and achieving a more 
accountable,  representative  and  transparent  Council, 
mindful  of  all  regional  groups  and  emerging  Powers, 
as  well  as  small  island,  landlocked  and  developing 
countries.
We  also  welcome  his  decision  to  reappoint  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  That  move  not  only 
answers the plea of several Member States that advocated 
for  his  reappointment  during  the  informal  meeting  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform  held  in  June,  but  will  also  ensure  consistency 
with previous deliberations while allowing this debate 
to make headway.
Rwanda  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
by His Excellency Mr. Vandi Chidi Minah, Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone to the United Nations, 
on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  (see  A/68/PV.46).  I 
2/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
commend  his  efforts  as  coordinator  of  the  African 
Union  Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State  to  promote 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  for  tirelessly  engaging 
all  Member  States  and  interest  groups  to  achieve  the 
African common position.
Rwanda,  as  a  member  of  the  L.69  group,  further 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement,  also  delivered  at  the 
46th  meeting,  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Delano  Frank 
Bart, Permanent Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
to  the  United  Nations,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69  group,  a 
diverse group of developing countries united to achieve 
a  lasting  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  rapprochement  of 
the  African  Group  and  the  L.69  group  on  Security 
Council  reform,  which  I  believe  will  help  us  achieve 
a  comprehensive  reform,  which  shall  include  the 
expansion of the Security Council membership in both 
categories  —  permanent  and  non-permanent  —  with 
the same rights and obligations as the current members, 
particularly with regard to the veto right, as long as it 
exists.
the  United  Nations  wishes 
It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  overwhelming 
majority  of 
for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
reform  shall  uphold  the  principles  of  fairness  and 
equitable  geographical  representation,  particularly 
in  favour  of  Africa,  a  continent  that  has  yet  to  be 
represented in the permanent category of the Security 
Council although it provides more than a quarter of the 
United  Nations  membership  and  occupies  more  than 
70 per cent of its agenda.
Rwanda  also  strongly  supports  the  improvement 
of  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council, 
and  we  commend  the  work  done  by  Ambassador 
María  Cristina  Perceval  of  Argentina  as  Chair  of  the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions. We also support the dedication 
of  the  accountability,  coherence  and  transparency 
group for the improvement of the working methods of 
the Security Council, which was defended with courage 
and resolve by the group of five small nations.
In  that  regard,  we  reiterate  our  firm  belief  that 
the  responsibility  to  protect  the  citizens  of  the  world 
shall  not  be  held  hostage  by  the  political  interests  of 
the permanent members of the Security Council — that 
has  cost  us  millions  of  lives,  particularly  in  the  1994 
genocide perpetrated against the Tutsi in Rwanda. We 
once  again  call  upon  permanent  members  to  refrain 
from using the veto, especially in the case of genocide, 
war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Improving  the  Council’s  working  methods  also 
entails  in  particular  improving  the  Council’s  resolve 
to  fight  against  impunity,  especially  for  those  who 
have  committed  genocide  and  other  crimes  against 
humanity.  It  is  therefore  unfortunate  to  note  that  the 
perpetrators  of  the  genocide  in  Rwanda,  which  have 
been  renamed  the  Forces  démocratiques  de  libération 
du  Rwanda,  are  still  roaming  free  in  the  eastern  part 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That fact is 
even  more  deplorable  since  we  know  that  the  United 
Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  a  United  Nations 
force  of  nearly  20,000  troops  with  a  budget  of  more 
than  $1  billion  a  year,  has  done  nothing  for  the  past 
13 years to combat them — not to mention the fact that 
the Security Council has never held the United Nations 
Mission that it established accountable.
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform have been going on for too long. Some 
even wonder if reform will be achieved in our lifetime. 
However, I would appeal to all of us to show a sense 
of  responsibility  and  ensure  that  we  have  a  concrete 
outcome  by  the  year  2015,  which  will  be  a  double 
anniversary:  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  2005  World 
Summit, at which our Heads of State and Government 
mandated  us  to  achieve  early  reforms  of  the  Security 
Council.
To  conclude,  Rwanda  is  confident  that,  under 
the  leadership  of  the  President  of  the  Assembly,  the 
Security Council reform process will soon move from 
debating procedural questions to engaging in text-based 
negotiations. We will continue to render our support to 
his  effort  in  search  of  a  common  position  that  brings 
about  a  fair  and  equitable  resolution  of  the  pressing 
issues surrounding this debate. It is our firm hope that 
during his tenure as President of the General Assembly, 
given  his  dedication  to  reforming  the  process,  that 
noble  landmark  will  be  credited  to  him  —  and  all 
members — as their legacy to posterity.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): I would first like to thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this  important  debate  ahead  of  the  new  cycle  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  also  commend  his  decision  to  reappoint 
Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan as the Chair of the 
13-55456
3/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  would  like  to  thank 
the President and Ambassador Tanin for their leadership 
in the process.
In  Croatia’s  view, 
the  present  structure  and 
functioning  of  the  Council  does  not  properly  reflect 
either  the  geopolitical  realities  of  today’s  world  or 
the  structure  of  United  Nations  membership  in  the 
twenty-first  century.  Therefore,  in  order  to  maintain 
the Council’s authority, relevance and indispensability 
in  maintaining  global  peace  and  security,  its  reform 
must  not  be  postponed  any  further,  and  it  must  be 
comprehensive.
Croatia  served  on  the  Security  Council  in  2008 
and  2009,  and  that  valuable  opportunity  has  given  us 
deeper  insight  into  both  the  Council’s  strengths  and 
its  shortcomings.  Therefore,  we  are  of  the  view  that 
the  enlargement  of  the  Council  is  deeply  connected 
with the reform of its working methods. It is Croatia’s 
position that any expansion of that crucial organ should 
happen  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories of membership, with one additional seat to 
be reserved for the Group of Eastern European States 
in  the  non-permanent  category.  Such  a  reform  would 
then  properly  reflect  the  reality  of  contemporary 
international  relations  and  ensure  appropriate  and 
balanced representation for various parts of the world 
in the Council.
Furthermore,  although  we  welcome  the  greater 
transparency in the Council’s work achieved thus far, 
we find that there is still room for improvement in that 
regard. We believe that the Group of Eastern European 
States  deserves  equal  treatment  with  the  four  other 
regional groups. I will not use the composition of the 
President’s  advisory  group  as  an  example  of  that,  but 
I must emphasize that the Eastern European Group is 
entitled to equal treatment, recognition and respect. An 
additional  seat  for  the  Eastern  European  Group  in  an 
enlarged  Security  Council  is  very  important,  but  not 
the only step along that road.
In  Croatia’s  view,  one  of  the  key  issues  in  the 
reform of the Security Council includes questions being 
raised on the use of the veto power. Its should be used 
responsibly and, above all, in a limited manner. By that 
we mean limiting its use in cases of genocide and gross 
human rights violations.
Furthermore, 
supports 
intensifying efforts to translate the decisions set out in 
Croatia 
strongly 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) and 
its aftermath into concrete results.
After  so  many  years  of  debate  and  after  so  many 
meetings  and  speeches,  it  is  challenging  to  come 
up  with  something  entirely  new.  Although  we  have 
accumulated  a  lot  of  different  proposals,  political 
will  and  unity  are  now  of  the  utmost  importance. 
Nevertheless,  we  must  strive  to  be  innovative.  What 
we need is to identify common denominators, stronger 
involvement and interaction between and among major 
groups in the process.
A  number  of  achievements  in  the  wider  United 
Nations reform have already been made since the World 
Summit.  That  reform  has  already  given  birth,  inter 
alia, to the Human Rights Council, the Peacebuilding 
Commission,  UN-Women  and,  most  recently,  to  the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development. 
The obvious shortfall in that regard, however, remains 
Security Council reform.
In  2015,  the  United  Nations  will  celebrate  its 
seventieth anniversary. It took only 18 years after the 
foundation of the United Nations to adopt the General 
Assembly resolution on the enlargement of the Security 
Council (resolution 1991 A (XVIII)). In 2015 we shall 
mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  beginning  of  the 
work of the 15-member Council. To say that reform is 
overdue would be more than stating the obvious. Having 
said all that, let me reiterate Croatia’s full support to the 
forthcoming  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
and  to  express  our  confidence  that  it  will  bring  us 
closer to our common goal of a reformed and improved 
Security Council.
Mr. Alcántara Mejía (Dominican Republic) (spoke 
in Spanish): Allow me to express my appreciation to the 
Ambassador  and  Permanent  Representative  of  China 
and President of the Security Council during the month 
of  November  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/68/2). 
Pursuant to Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter of 
the United Nations, the Security Council has a mandate 
to  submit  reports  to  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
consideration of States Members of the United Nations. 
The  document  that  we  have  before  us  covers  a  rather 
difficult period that undoubtedly tested the capacity of 
the  Security  Council  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security.
Despite the efforts made by Council members, the 
report  continues  to  suffer  from  a  lack  of  an  analytic 
4/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
perspective  of  the  work  undertaken  by  that  organ,  its 
public  open  meetings  and  its  informal  consultations. 
We recognize, however, the progress made by Council 
members  to  optimize  transparency  in  their  work. 
We  also  acknowledge  the  improvement  in  working 
methods, which help Member States to participate more 
actively on questions and concerns of common interest 
on the Council’s agenda.
will  and  commitment  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations to correct that unjust situation with firm 
determination. It is time to put an end to the imbalance 
that  has  relegated  some  regions  to  the  sidelines  when 
it  comes  to  Council  representation.  Only  then,  we 
believe, will the Council be better able to respond, and 
with  greater  efficacy,  to  the  growing  problems  and 
challenges that arise in international relations.
Addressing the matter of its working methods leads 
us to refer to a point of particular importance for the 
Dominican Republic, that is, the reform of the Security 
Council. We commend the interest of the President of 
the General Assembly in keeping the topic among those 
of highest priority in his programme of action.
The  Dominican  Republic  hopes  that  the  process 
will continue to move forward in an open, inclusive and 
transparent  manner,  with  the  goal  of  Member  States 
being  able  to  decisively  impact  the  democratization 
of  the  Security  Council.  We  support  the  idea  of  2015 
serving as a horizon for setting the necessary guidelines 
for  the  long-awaited  reform  of  the  Council.  We 
therefore hope that the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  will  continue  and  that  a 
document can be consolidated to support negotiations 
aimed at bringing greater legitimacy and credibility to 
the Council’s work.
We  welcome  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador 
Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, 
at  the  helm  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
as  well  as  the  selection  of  the  group  of  ambassador 
advisers  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  trust  in  the 
leadership  and  skill  of  the  members  of  that  group  to 
reach important decisions at this crucial stage.
The  Dominican  Republic  has  always  advocated 
for  an  enlargement  of  the  Council  to  take  place  with 
particular emphasis on opening up greater opportunities 
for developing countries, thereby ensuring a more level 
playing field. Hence we support the communiqué issued 
in  February  at  the  conclusion  of  the  twenty-fourth 
Inter-sessional Meeting of the Conference of  the Heads 
of State and of Government of the Caribbean Community, 
in which there was a call for greater urgency to achieve 
lasting reform of the Security Council. We also support 
the initiative it contains to give new momentum to the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
The  current  structure  of  Council  membership  is 
clearly unbalanced and does not accurately reflect the 
current geopolitical situation. We appeal to the political 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  new 
non-permanent members of the Council on their recent 
elections. We hope that they will contribute positively 
to the work of the Council in maintaining international 
peace and security.
Mr.  Hamilton  (Malta):  My  delegation  expresses 
its  appreciation  for  the  President’s  resolve  to  make 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  a  priority  for  his 
mandate. I also join other delegations in thanking the 
Permanent Representative of China for introducing the 
Security Council’s annual report (A/68/2) on behalf of 
the Council.
Malta  fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting for Consensus (UFC) group (see A/68/PV.46).
With deference to the recent decision to create an 
advisory group to the President of the General Assembly 
on the Security Council reform process, UFC members 
have  already  conveyed  their  assessments  in  the  letter 
dated  31  October.  We  thank  the  President  for  his 
meeting  on  Wednesday  meeting  with  UFC  members. 
His  clarifications  were  encouraging,  especially  when 
he informed us that the advisory group would have only 
a consultative purpose and would not have a negotiating 
role  or  a  mandate  to  draft  or  to  streamline  any 
negotiating  document  or  draft  resolution  and  that  the 
advisory group would not bypass the intergovernmental 
negotiations. We appreciate the fact that, in his opening 
remarks yesterday, the President restated those points 
very clearly. We hope that augurs well for an end to any 
misinterpretations of the advisory group’s mandate.
Considering  the  slow  rate  of  progress  during  the 
sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  it  is 
appropriate that we look forward to identifying common 
ground,  as  the  President  stated  in  his  letter  dated 
6 November. In our collective thoughts and actions we 
need to define the areas of convergence according to the 
principles  agreed  to  by  consensus  in  decision  62/557, 
of 15 September 2008. Malta remains of the firm view 
that  the  five  key  agreed  issues  are  interlinked.  If  we 
13-55456
5/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
maintain  those  five  key  issues  as  one  component,  we 
will ensure that the reform of the Security Council is 
conducted in a coherent and cohesive manner. In turn, 
that would safeguard the interests of all Member States 
and endow a reformed Security Council with the much-
needed sense of ownership of the broader membership.
As  the  President  rightly  stated  in  his  letter,  that 
common ground can be reached only through a process 
of  negotiations,  of  give  and  take.  Malta  understands 
that only the Uniting for Consensus group has shown 
flexibility to date, having come forward in 2009 with 
a constructive, updated proposal that is, comparatively 
speaking,  the  most  beneficial  for  the  wider  United 
Nations  membership.  We  call  on  other  groups  to 
reciprocate in this exercise of give and take.
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  over  the  past 
few  years  have  clearly  shown  that  there  is  at  least 
agreement on two issues among all States Members of 
the United Nations, and those could provide a common 
ground for advancing our consideration of the question 
of Security Council reform. The two issues are, first, 
that there should be an increase in the non-permanent 
member  category  and,  secondly,  that  the  historical 
injustice  regarding  Africa’s  representation  should  be 
remedied.
All  States  Members  agree  on  the  need  to  reform 
the  Security  Council  in  order  for  it  to  better  reflect 
the  world  in  the  twenty-first  century.  Member  States, 
especially small and medium-sized States, continue to 
search  for  ways  to  reform  the  Security  Council  so  as 
to make it more representative, more democratic, more 
efficient  and  effective,  more  accountable  and  more 
transparent in order to better address the challenges of 
our time as we approach the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations.
The  membership  of  the  Security  Council  has  to 
be more reflective of present-day realities. Therefore, 
like many other States, Malta strongly believes that the 
Council membership should be increased. I would like to 
recall that, since the last Security Council enlargement, 
in 1965, 76 countries have joined the Organization as 
new States Members. It is therefore logical that one of 
the key issues that needs to be resolved is the question of 
the enlargement of a reformed Security Council to take 
into account the larger General Assembly membership 
of 193 States.
The position of small and medium-sized States in an 
expanded Security Council should figure prominently 
in our discussions. Malta notes that only the Uniting for 
Consensus  proposal  includes  specific  non-permanent 
seats  for  both  small  and  medium-sized  States.  It  is 
also  statistically  the  most  advantageous  proposal  for 
over  180  Member  States,  including  all  small  and  all 
medium-sized States. That fact has not only been stated 
by the Uniting for Consensus group, but has also been 
published by the independent civil society organization 
Platform for Change, which aims to educate and inform 
the diplomatic community and civil society about the 
important  issues  and  events  surrounding  Security 
Council reform.
My delegation appreciates the role that the President 
and his predecessors have played in trying to bring the 
views of different delegations closer together and, in so 
doing, to define and agree on an approach that would do 
justice to all the States Members of the United Nations.
Mr.  Rakhmetullin  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset, 
my  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  important  and  most  timely  meeting. 
We  also  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zahir 
Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  on 
his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  and  for  his 
leadership in guiding its complex deliberations.
Kazakhstan  recognizes 
that 
its  operations  continue 
the  geographical 
imbalance in the Security Council and the limitations 
in 
to  exist.  Kazakhstan 
therefore  reiterates  its  commitment  to  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  —  primarily  the  Council  —  on  both 
of  those  fronts.  With  a  view  to  the  enhancement  of 
regional  representation,  my  delegation  reconfirms  its 
position on increasing the Council’s membership from 
the  existing  number  of  15  to  25  by  establishing  six 
permanent  and  four  non-permanent  Security  Council 
member  seats.  Moving 
the  negotiations  forward 
demands  a  new  understanding  that  would  bridge 
the  divergence  among  the  vast  majority  of  Member 
States. The positions of all the groups concerned need 
to  be  bridged.  Kazakhstan  therefore  calls  for  a  spirit 
of  compromise  and  inclusiveness  in  order  to  gain  the 
broadest possible consensus. We would like to submit 
the  following  recommendations  for 
the  General 
Assembly’s consideration.
The  proposals  of  the  latest  intergovernmental 
negotiations should be carefully reviewed with respect, 
in particular, to the veto right with all its implications, 
so that a viable solution can be found. We believe that 
a change in the working methods does not require an 
6/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
amendment  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  or 
adoption by a two-thirds majority. Kazakhstan believes 
that  any  improvement  in  the  working  methods  will 
not limit the power of the Council or subordinate it to 
the  General  Assembly,  but  rather  will  strengthen  the 
Security Council to make it more efficient. It is critical 
to have all the proposals of Member States on the table 
for the purpose of greater transparency, accountability 
and 
to 
information  through  open  briefings,  thematic  debates 
and  consultations  with  States  that  are  not  members 
of  the  Security  Council,  the  involvement  of  troop-
contributing countries in its decision-making processes 
on peacekeeping operations and the easy availability of 
provisional agendas, draft resolutions and presidential 
statements.
fairer  participation, 
increased 
access 
It 
imperative 
is  equally 
to  strengthen 
the 
cooperation mechanism between the Security Council 
and  the  General  Assembly,  since  the  latter  represents 
the  interests  of  all  Member  States.  In  particular, 
the  most  crucial  and  unresolved  disputes  in  the 
Council  could  be  discussed  in  the  General  Assembly 
to  ascertain  the  positions  of  the  majority  of  Member 
States  on  vital  issues,  so  as  to  make  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  as  informed  as  possible. 
We  welcome  the  measures  designed  to  increase  the 
number of open meetings of the Security Council and 
the decrease in the number of closed meetings to ensure 
greater transparency. That is particularly important for 
countries when the Council deliberates on the cases of 
their immediate neighbouring countries or those in the 
region, because of the relevant inputs that can be made 
and to assess the interrelated impact and consequences.
The  States  that  are  not  members  of  the  Security 
Council  need  to  know  first-hand  and  objectively  the 
decisions and positions of the members of the Security 
Council  —  not  through  the  lens  of  the  mass  media, 
with its distortions. We also welcome the establishment 
of  the  advisory  group  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and believe that it will serve the negotiating 
process  as  a  whole  and  provide  a  balanced  approach, 
including  in  its  scope  all  positions  and  concerns 
expressed by groups and Member States.
To conclude, I would again reiterate Kazakhstan’s 
commitment  to  engaging  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  work  in  a  spirit  of  compromise  and 
cooperation to finalize a speedy reform of the Security 
Council. The reform process cannot wait much longer, 
in  the  light  of  the  new  emerging  global  geopolitical 
realities and socioeconomic developments.
Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): As this is the first time that I have the honour 
to speak before the plenary of the sixty-eighth session 
of the General Assembly and on a matter of such vital 
importance  to  us  all  as  the  current  agenda  item,  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
issues, allow me to express to the President my sincere 
congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session.
My  delegation  also  appreciates  the  apposite  and 
clear way in which the President is guiding the debates 
during  this  session  and  fully  supports  his  efforts  in 
that regard. I am also very pleased at his initiative to 
convene  this  meeting  and  at  the  new  impetus  he  has 
given to this theme by reappointing Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin. Mr. Tanin has my delegation’s full confidence as 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform. We also express our full support for the 
President’s innovative initiative to appoint an advisory 
group. As he has explained, the role of the group is not 
to  take  decisions  or  to  to  supplant  or  usurp  the  work 
that  Ambassador  Tanin  will  undertake.  Simply,  as  its 
name implies, the group is to serve the President as an 
advisory body with no binding character. 
My delegation would like to thank Ambassador Liu 
Jieyi of the People’s Republic of China for introducing 
the report (A/68/2) of the Security Council yesterday, 
on the occasion of the start of our debate on this issue 
(see A/68/PV.46).
It  has  been  68  years  since  the  United  Nations 
was  established,  on  24  October  1945,  following  the 
disastrous impact of the Second World War. Thirty-four 
years  later,  in  1979,  during  the  thirty-fourth  session 
of the General Assembly, on the initiative of Algeria, 
Argentina,  Bangladesh,  Bhutan,  Guyana, 
India, 
Maldives, Nepal, Nigeria and Sri Lanka, the question 
of equitable representation on the Security Council and 
the  increase  in  its  membership  was  raised.  A  debate 
was launched in that regard at the forty-seventh session, 
in 1992, when resolution 47/62 was adopted. Pursuant 
to that, the Secretary-General published a report with 
comments made by the aforementioned Member States. 
Thus,  the  United  Nations  is  68  years  old,  and  for 
34 of those years we have been debating the need for 
Security Council reform.
13-55456
7/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
While 68 is a very significant age for both people 
and States, it is even more important in the history of 
an international Organization that serves as a forum for 
debating rights of every sort — human rights, the right 
to food, women’s rights, children’s rights, the right to 
the self-determination of free peoples and so on. Is it 
not fair that the time has come for the rights of countries 
and all regions to rightful representation in the Security 
Council to be recognized?
Is  it  not  already  time  for  the  African  continent, 
with 54 Member States in the United Nations — more 
than any other region — and more than 70 per cent of 
the issues discussed in the Security Council concerning 
it, to be given the right of representation in the Security 
Council, with the right to vote and to the veto, in order 
to actively participate in discussions on relevant issues? 
In  his  statement  at  the  general  debate  in  September, 
South African President Jacob Zuma said: 
“We would like to challenge the Assembly today by 
saying ‘Let us set ourselves the target to celebrate 
the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations in 
2015 with a reformed, more inclusive, democratic 
and representative Security Council!’” (A/68/PV.5, 
p. 50)
That is two years from now. 
That  goal  should  guide  the  new  process  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  so  that  the  United 
Nations is adapted to the challenges of an international 
order  that  is  completely  different  from  that  which 
prevailed  68  years  ago.  This  is  a  new  world,  quite 
different  from  the  one  that  saw  the  establishment  of 
the  United  Nations.  Today’s  world  is  not  the  product 
of war, but of technological change. In the world today, 
at  the  United  Nations,  we  recognize  rights,  dialogue, 
democracy, transparency and good governance. Those 
realities should shape United Nations bodies as a whole, 
in particular the Security Council.
As we are approach the end of 2013, the international 
Organization  that  is  the  United  Nations,  and  through 
its General Assembly, has some promising prospects in 
the next two years, including 2015, the year set for the 
fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals. The 
Assembly  should  ensure  that  2015,  when  the  United 
Nations  will  mark  its  seventieth  anniversary,  is  also 
the  year  when  we  achieve  effective  Security  Council 
reform.
As  President  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo 
of  Equatorial  Guinea  said  during  his  statement  at  the 
general debate,
“Let us be honest with ourselves, because democracy, 
as  a  just  and  equitable  system,  should  prevail  in 
all  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations  system,  the 
epicentre of the international community, aspiring 
to peace, order and development.” (A/68/PV.13, p. 8)
I am participating in this debate as the Permanent 
Representative  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  which  is  a 
member of the Committee of Ten of the African Union. 
In  that  connection,  I  fully  associate  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Sierra Leone, His Excellency Mr. Vandi Chidi Minah, 
as coordinator of the Committee of Ten, and also with 
the  statement  made  by  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Mr. Mootaz Ahmadein Khalil of Egypt on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46).
In that regard, we reaffirm the claim made by the 
African continent to be fully and broadly represented 
in  all  decision-making  bodies  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly in the Security Council, which is the main 
decision-making organ on issues relating to international 
peace and security. The broad and full representation 
required  by  the  African  continent  means  obtaining  at 
leats two permanent seats in the Security Council, with 
all the inherent privileges and prerogatives, as well as 
five non-permanent seats.
Members  will  agree  with  me  that  it  is  totally 
inconceivable and unjustifiable that a continent such as 
Africa, which has more than 1 billion people, the largest 
number of States Members of the United Nations and 
the largest number of issues dealt with by the Security 
Council, does not to date have a single permanent seat on 
the Security Council. In that regard, it should be noted 
that  the  demand  for  seats  for  Africa  on  the  Security 
Council  is  a  demand  and  an  inalienable  right  in  the 
modern world, especially in a global Organization such 
as the United Nations — a guarantor of the principles 
of justice, good governance and rights.
I would like to conclude my brief statement by saying 
that  my  country  reiterates  its  position  —  the  African 
common position — that we reject any provisional or 
transitional proposals in the negotiations, as the main 
requirements of such an approach would go against the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  That 
is  what  was  decided  at  the  Kampala  Summit  in  July 
2010, reaffirmed at the African Union Summit held in 
8/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
Addis Ababa in January 2011, unanimously reasserted 
again  during  the  Malabo  Summit  in  July  2011  and 
ratified and supported in subsequent summits. To that 
end,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  reiterates  its 
full confidence in Ambassador Zahir Tanin in driving 
the Security Council reform process. We also reiterate 
our confidence that all of Africa’s partners, friends and 
allies from all regions and continents will support us so 
that this African claim can become a tangible reality.
decision  to  establish  an  advisory  group  of  eminent 
ambassadors,  which  is  charged  with  the  important 
task  of  producing  the  basis  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations while taking on board all the suggestions 
made so far. We see this decision in the context of the 
current momentum to move forward in the process of 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
and  an  increase  in  the  size  of  the  Security  Council, 
which is long overdue.
My  country  and  Government  in  general  believe 
that  all  States,  regions  and  interest  groups  should 
bring  their  positions  closer  together  in  the  context  of 
this reform process, so as to achieve equitable, fair and 
objective  representation  on  the  Security  Council  and 
within  the  United  Nations  system.  We  hope  that  the 
Security Council in particular and the United Nations 
system as a whole will be restructured in a manner that 
more broadly takes into account the interests of all the 
States  and  geographical  regions  of  the  international 
community. That will require all States to continue to 
move forward and to overcome the obstacles that prevent 
them from achieving a genuine and more representative 
membership of the Security Council. We therefore hope 
for resounding success in the new negotiating process.
Mr. Logar (Slovenia):  I would like to thank you, 
Madam, for convening today’s important meeting.
Slovenia  believes  that  it  would  be  more  efficient 
if  the  General  Assembly  were  to  hold  two  separate 
debates  —  one  on 
the  Security  Council  report 
(A/68/2) and the other on the question of the equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters — since both 
topics need to be thoroughly discussed. We believe that 
the content of the report is of high importance for all 
Members,  and  would  therefore  like  to  examine  it  in 
depth before discussing it further. Nevertheless, I would 
like to thank the representative of China, Mr. Liu Jieyi, 
for  introducing  the  Security  Council  report  covering 
the period from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
to 
the 
the 
initiative 
reconvene 
Slovenia  welcomes 
taken  by 
Ambassador  John  Ashe,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  early  in  this 
session of the Assembly. We would like to congratulate 
Ambassador  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations. We sincerely hope that 
this round of negotiations will lead to tangible results and 
a successful outcome. We also respect the President’s 
In our opinion, it is important to maintain a clear 
distinction between the debate on enlarging the Council 
and the discussion on improving the working methods 
applied under its current composition. After last week’s 
open  debate  on  working  methods  (see  S/PV.7052),  we 
expect that the Council will be able to build on several 
proposals made by a large number of the Member States. 
As  a  member  of  the  accountability,  coherence  and 
transparency  group,  Slovenia  will  contribute  further 
ideas on how to enhance the accountability, coherence 
and transparency of the Security Council.
We  regret  that  discussion  has  lagged  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and an increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters.  We  believe  that  the  enlargement  of  the 
Council would contribute to its effectiveness, improve 
its  representation  and  bring  fresh  perspectives  to  the 
table. It is apparent that the expansion of the Security 
Council in permanent and non-permanent membership 
has  gained  broad  support  among  the  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  Slovenia  remains  convinced 
that the Council should be expanded in both categories 
of  membership.  In  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-
third  session,  Slovenia  suggested  a  specific  model 
for  Security  Council  expansion.  We  believe  that  our 
suggestion and other specific past proposals should be 
approached head-on and that they should be taken into 
account by the advisory group.
Slovenia views the determination and commitment 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  as  an 
opportunity  to  come  to  meaningful  conclusions  that 
should  be  implemented  in  the  light  of  the  upcoming 
United Nations anniversary in 2015. Prolonged debates 
have revealed the discontent of many Member States, 
and  it  is  high  time  to  address  that  issue  in  a  proper 
and concrete way that will adapt the Security Council 
to  new  challenges  and  reflect  the  realities  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Slovenia will play a constructive role in the process of 
intergovernmental negotiations.
13-55456
9/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria):  I am pleased to see you 
presiding  over  this  meeting,  Madam.  If  it  were  up  to 
Algeria, we would have liked to see Security Council 
reform achieved under your presidency today. I would 
like  to  thank  you  for  convening  this  joint  debate  on 
agenda  item  29,  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”, 
linked  with  agenda  item  123,  “Question  of  equitable 
representation on and increase in the membership of the 
Security Council and related matters”. It is important 
that we look at the way the Security Council is working 
in order to correct what needs to be corrected. So we 
work on that link. In that regard, I would like to thank 
Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  representative  of  China  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month,  for 
introducing the report of the Security Council (A/68/2), 
covering  the  activities  of  the  Council  from  1  August 
2012 to 31 July 2013.
With respect to item 123, allow me to congratulate 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin on his reappointment as Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  and  to 
reiterate Algeria’s commitment to working with him in 
order to ensure the speedy and comprehensive reform 
of the Security Council.
Algeria aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group (see A/68/PV.46).
At a time of profound changes on the international 
landscape, Security Council reform has become more 
urgent.  Why?  For  instance,  in  document  A/68/2, 
covering the reporting period of the Security Council, 
one observes that there are very few elements that allow 
members of the General Assembly to have a sense of 
the kind of debate taking place on the various agenda 
items. I have in mind one particular agenda item that I 
happen to follow closely — the question of the Western 
Sahara.  With  respect  to  the  debate  that  took  place  in 
April 2013 (see S/PV.6951), during the reporting period, 
the report does not reflect what actually happened.
There  was  a  very  tense  debate  in  the  midst  of  a 
looming diplomatic crisis between important members 
of the Security Council and one party to the conflict in 
the  Western  Sahara,  but  it  took  place  in  the  informal 
discussions before the item was actually considered in 
the  formal  meeting.  There  is  therefore  no  mention  in 
the  report  of  the  attempt  by  responsible  members  of 
the Security Council to propose extending the mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  the  Referendum 
in  Western  Sahara  and  to  monitor  the  human  rights 
situation in the Territory of Western Sahara, because it 
took place outside the work of the Council.
Members of the Council are right to report only what 
happened in the Council Chamber. Since everything is 
happening in the corridors, within the small group of 
friends and in consultation outside the formal meetings, 
they have the right not to report to us, but then we miss 
the point. We do not know what happens. I know one 
question, but I do not know another one. In the future, 
the records we transmit to future generations will not 
allow them to know what happened on various issues. 
That is why more transparency is of the essence, and 
that is why we are insisting that we achieve a speedy 
and timely reform of the Security Council.
Another issue that the Member States might have 
noticed  is  that,  since  the  reopening  of  the  Secretariat 
and  conference  buildings,  since 
the  renovations 
within the framework of the capital master plan, some 
changes have been introduced to the way the Security 
Council  interacts  with  the  Member  States.  We,  the 
178  delegations  that  are  not  members  of  the  Security 
Council, are no longer allowed to approach the Security 
Council  consultations  room.  Actually,  there  is  a 
prohibition in the form of a red sign stating that it is a 
private zone. One cannot reach the German lounge that 
Germany generously equipped a long time ago to allow 
delegations to sit and interact with the elected members 
of the Security Council, representing the membership, 
and to be informed about the proceedings and work of 
the Security Council.
I would like to mention that the consultations room 
is  an  informal  setting,  according  to  the  Charter.  The 
Charter  has  established  that  the  Council  meets  in  the 
Council Chamber, and that we are entitled to attend the 
deliberations of the Council on any question related to 
international  peace  and  security.  In  order  to  prepare 
for  the  debate,  the  members  of  the  Council  happen 
to  meet  outside  the  Chamber  in  a  corridor,  to  have  a 
coffee or not and to exchange views before the meeting. 
That  corridor  became  the  consultations  room,  but  it 
has no status whatsoever, and we are entitled to cut the 
funding  of  the  informal  consultations  of  the  Security 
Council  on  the  basis  that  they  are  not  in  conformity 
with the Charter. Moreover, we are not even allowed to 
approach the antechamber of the consultations room. I 
rely on the wisdom of the permanent members to help 
the general membership to improve their relations with 
the Council’s work.
10/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
As for other innovations that have been introduced, 
I  congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  having 
occupied  the  former  office  of  the  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  and  I  understand  that  the  President 
of the Council has now been assigned a smaller office 
in  the  back.  I  express  my  sympathy  for  the  elected 
members,  which  are  losing  an  opportunity  to  provide 
some  visibility  to  their  short  term  of  membership  in 
the Council, but it is for the current and future elected 
members to address this issue.
Another aspect of the work of the Security Council 
is the principle that those who have a stake in any agenda 
item should be able to participate in the debate or interact 
with the Council. In the case of the Western Sahara, on 
the occasion of the most recent consultations, which took 
place on 30 November 2012, the representative of the 
Frente Polisario was denied access to the vicinity of the 
Security Council. As we all know, there are new rules, 
but in addition to that, he was further excluded from the 
area. It has been a tradition that those identified by the 
Council as the parties to a conflict — in this case, the 
Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Polisario — can 
make their case to the members of the Council and to 
the  membership  through  the  stakeout.  He  was  denied 
a chance to speak at the stakeout. The necessary claim 
has been filed with those responsible, and here also I am 
confident that the wisdom of the permanent members 
of the Security Council, which are no doubt concerned 
about maintaining good relations with the users of the 
Council, will allow for a speedy resolution of this issue.
As for the report of the Security Council, it is up 
to  us  to  decide  whether  we  are  to  continue  with  the 
situation  and  are  satisfied,  or  we  are  to  increase  our 
efforts. Algeria supports the intention of the President 
of the Assembly to increase efforts in order to speed up 
the process. We support him — and we supported him 
within the framework of the African Group — in the 
establishment of the advisory group.
We  caution  against  encroaching  upon 
the 
prerogatives of the membership. The President has the 
right to establish a group of friends to receive advice 
and to make proposals to the membership. Let us avoid 
making the advisory group a body that is tasked with 
drafting texts without being sufficiently representative 
of all the positions in the debate. However, the President 
has the right to listen to the group and to make proposals 
to  us,  and  we  encourage  him  to  do  so.  We  encourage 
all  those  who  have  complained  that  Security  Council 
reform has taken too long to consider the real causes.
Actually, I did not want to get to this point. I do not 
see the Permanent Representatives of Germany, Brazil, 
India and Japan in the Hall. I will make my proposal 
to them on 15 November within the framework of the 
intergovernmental negotiations because I do not want 
to repeat myself.
I would like to convey our call on Ambassador Tanin 
to  address  the  status  of  the  third  revision  of  the 
compilation.  We  all  complained  about  the  incursion 
of  Ambassador  Tanin  into  our  prerogatives,  trying  to 
interpret  our  positions.  Let  us  go  back  to  the  second 
revision  and  take  it  from  there.  We  are  ready  to 
help  Ambassador  Tanin,  who  is  an  asset.  He  has  the 
institutional  memory  and  he  knows  where  we  can 
meet. We are ready to work with him by no later than 
mid-November.
Mr.  Dos  Santos  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  his  timely  initiative  to  undertake  work  in  this 
area. I also express the appreciation of the delegation 
of  Paraguay  to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  his  important  role 
as  Chair  of  the  previous  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  wish  him  success  in  the  new  round 
beginning at this session. We would also like to thank 
the Permanent Representative of China for introducing 
the annual report of the Security Council (A/68/2).
The  Government  of  Paraguay  maintains 
that 
expanding  the  Security  Council  is  necessary  in  order 
to strengthen and update the Organization with a view 
to making it more effective and equitable, as mandated 
by the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). 
That  process,  which  is  proceeding  in  the  form  of 
intergovernmental negotiations, must be accompanied 
by a reform of the Council’s working methods, since if 
the Security Council is more democratic, representative, 
transparent and efficient, its decisions will have greater 
legitimacy.
As stated in the Charter of the United Nations, the 
Council’s primary function is to preserve international 
peace  and  security.  The  increasing  expansion  of  the 
powers  of  the  Council  to  other  issues  that  already 
have  dedicated  forums  for  discussion  undermines  the 
authority of the General Assembly and other organs of 
the Organization, which is a cause for concern.
Over the past few years, my country has followed 
with growing interest the rounds of intergovernmental 
13-55456
11/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
its  membership, 
negotiations  undertaken  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council.  In  this  respect,  we  believe 
that  the  Security  Council  should  consider  a  balanced 
geographical  distribution  for 
in 
accordance with the principle enshrined in Article 2 of 
the Charter concerning the sovereign equality of States.
its 
elimination. We also believe that there must be effective 
communication between the Security Council and the 
General  Assembly,  which  is  the  most  representative 
and democratic organ of the United Nations system. We 
therefore need to systematically hold meetings between 
the  President  of  the  Assembly  and  the  President  of 
the  Security  Council,  which  will  help  to  improve  the 
transparency of the Council’s work.
the  veto,  Paraguay 
Regarding 
supports 
Finally, we are fully confident that the Council will 
ultimately adapt to the changing times of this century 
by  becoming  more  representative  and  improving  the 
effectiveness,  legitimacy  and  implementation  of  its 
decisions.
Mr.  Velásquez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation welcomes the convening of this meeting to 
continue discussing one of the core issues related to the 
reform of the Organization — the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.
I  would  like  to  highlight  the  work  done  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  in  heading  up  the  informal 
plenary meetings of the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters, and we therefore welcome their ongoing help 
in this process during the current session.
The significant and substantive discussions that we 
have carried out during the nine rounds of the process 
of intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform  have  highlighted  the  significant  agreement 
among Members regarding the urgent need to adapt the 
structure of our Organization to adequately reflect the 
changes  that  have  arisen  in  the  international  context 
since  the  most  recent  reform  of  that  body.  In  that 
respect, Peru believes that new impetus must be given 
to  the  negotiations  to  advance  the  goal  of  achieving 
a  renewed,  renovated,  expanded,  more  democratic, 
representative, effective and efficient Security Council 
whose  working  methods  that  are  more  transparent. 
Therefore, Peru believes that it is time to proceed to a 
dynamic,  informal  drafting  process  that  leads  us  to  a 
negotiating text with clear alternatives that enjoys the 
support and, above all, commitment of Member States.
We are grateful for the valuable compilation work 
carried  out  by  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  now  need 
text-based 
negotiations in order to overcome entrenched positions 
and identify and process the options available to us so 
that  we  can  move  forward  towards  negotiating  work 
with  tangible,  balanced  and  representative  results, 
always  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  that  it  must  be  a 
transparent  and  inclusive  process  with  a  view  to  the 
timely reform of the Security Council.
to  hold 
Peru welcomed the recent creation of an advisory 
group  responsible  for  collecting  the  positions  of  the 
various  negotiating  groups  and  countries  that  are 
involved  in  this  debate,  on  the  understanding  that 
this  is  part  of  the  efforts  to  revive  the  process  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, in accordance with General Assembly decision 
62/557.
Peru  reiterates  once  again  its  conviction  that, 
if  the  Security  Council  is  to  adapt  to  new  realities, 
it  must  incorporate  new  members,  permanent  and 
non-permanent  alike,  in  order  to  promote  fair  and 
equitable  regional  representation  that  represents  a 
change from the current status quo.
With  regard  to  the  question  of  the  veto,  Peru  has 
consistently  maintained  a  principled  position  aimed 
ultimately  at  its  elimination.  Now,  in  a  constructive 
spirit,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  permanent 
members should commit to assessing, as a first step, a 
possible limitation on the use of the veto, relying on the 
existing rule established in paragraph 3 of Article 27 of 
the Charter.
Additionally, Peru believes it is important to reach 
consensus  on  the  possibility  of  establishing  precise 
limits for the use of the veto, eliminating the possibility 
of  applying  it  in  cases  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  successive  acts  of  flagrant  violation 
of  human  rights  or  international  humanitarian  law.  I 
welcome the French position on this issue, while calling 
on the other permanent members to explore that option.
It  is  also  important  for  the  Security  Council  to 
make  progress  on  a  serious  and  comprehensive  self-
assessment of its work in order to enhance its legitimacy 
and the efficiency and effectiveness of its work. In that 
12/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
regard, my delegation believes that it is of the utmost 
importance to make progress towards a concrete reform 
of  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  so  that  they 
are  more  transparent  and  efficient.  To  that  end,  we 
believe that there is a need to hold more open meetings, 
increase the number of meetings to update members on 
the topics of discussion, and ensure that such meetings 
are substantive in nature and held in a timely manner.
countries  in  both  categories.  In  that  context,  it  is 
resolutely  in  favour  of  the  African  common  position, 
as  outlined  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus.  In  addition, 
we support calls for the provision of a special rotating 
seat  for  small  island  developing  States  in  a  reformed 
Security  Council,  and  in  that  context  we  call  for  an 
increase  in  the  size  of  the  Security  Council  from  the 
current 15 to approximately 27.
We  also  believe  it  important  to  strengthen  the 
practice of Security Council consultations with troop-
contributing  members  in  advance  of  the  Council’s 
deliberations  on  the  subject,  and  to  ensure  inclusion 
and  regularity  in  the  practice  of  self-assessment  and 
the review of the implementation of Council decisions. 
Similarly,  we  welcome  the  recent  initiative  to  hold 
meetings to review the work of the Council at the end 
of each month, and we call for this beneficial practice 
to be continued in order to increase the transparency of 
the Council. We also appreciate the practice of holding 
open debates on issues being considered by the Council. 
However, this should not be a mere formality, and the 
debates should reflect the views of all Members of the 
Organization.
Every  process  should  lead  to  the  adoption  of  a 
decision.  Continuing  to  reiterate  our  well-known 
national  positions  merely  postpones  an  important 
decision  that  is  supported  by  a  majority  of  the 
membership.  If,  as  unanimously  expressed  here,  we 
want to reform the Security Council, we must translate 
this  desire  into  concrete  commitments.  I  reaffirm 
my  country’s  willingness  to  continue  to  participate 
constructively  in  the  informal  plenary  meetings  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  in  and  membership  of  the 
Security Council and related matters.
Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago): Trinidad and 
Tobago  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representatives of Guyana on behalf of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM),  Japan  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  Four,  and  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  on  behalf 
of  the  L.69  group  in  encouraging  inclusive  Security 
Council  reform,  and  takes  this  opportunity  to  deliver 
our remarks on agenda item 123, “Question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters”.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  unequivocally  supports 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
member categories of the Security Council, and as such 
it advocates for the expansion of the roles of developing 
With  a  view  to  promoting  the  equality  of  States, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  supports  the  elimination  of  the 
veto. However, in the event of its retention, we consider 
that  all  permanent  members  of  an  expanded  and 
reformed Security Council must have the same rights 
and privileges as existing permanent States.
In  the  vein  of  efficiency,  we  call  for  improved 
working methods of the Council so as to increase the 
involvement of non-members in its work, as appropriate, 
and  to  enhance  the  Council’s  accountability  and 
transparency. In addition, Trinidad and Tobago supports 
the  position  advanced  by  CARICOM  as  it  relates  to 
the relationship between the Security Council and the 
General  Assembly,  and  encourages  the  adoption  of 
appropriate measures to enable the General Assembly 
to  function  effectively  as 
the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  believes  that  the  need  for 
Security Council reform is evident, as the international 
community  is  faced  with  new  and  evolving  global 
security challenges, as well as issues of human rights 
and  conscience.  With  the  continuing  evolution  of  the 
global political climate, the need for a Security Council 
that represents, more broadly, the geopolitical realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century  is  becoming  increasingly 
obvious.
In 
the  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
(resolution  60/1),  international  leaders  supported  an 
early reform of the Security Council. The pace of that 
reform, however, must be increased if we are not to be 
overtaken by new circumstances that could repeatedly 
test the fabric of relationships among Member States of 
the General Assembly.
Trinidad and Tobago further reiterates CARICOM’s 
call  for  greater  urgency  in  achieving  lasting  Security 
Council reform, and we extend our continued support 
for  decision  64/568  on  that  matter.  We  congratulate 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
13-55456
13/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, and encourage the progressive spirit that those 
negotiations espouse.
that process, in its inclusive and holistic nature and its 
unity of purpose and intention, can bring about reform 
that is meaningful, representative and democratic.
In  closing,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  would  like  to 
express  its  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, 
for  his  efforts  in  promoting  Security  Council  reform, 
and  to  current  President  John  Ashe  for  his  efforts  to 
continue discussions towards a more representative and 
effective Security Council. It is our hope that tangible 
outcomes, including a meaningful action plan, will be 
the  outcome  of  those  deliberations,  in  the  interest  of 
global peace and security.
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus):  Cyprus  welcomes  this 
timely debate on the important matter of the equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  As  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  noted,  United 
Nations reform represents an important element in our 
overall  effort  to  strengthen  the  Organization,  without 
which  the  Organization  runs  the  risk  of  becoming 
inconsequential.
We welcome the reappointment of Ambassador Tanin 
as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and 
we  look  forward  to  the  session’s  first  meeting  in  that 
framework. We also take note of the President’s decision 
to  form  an  advisory  group  that,  as  we  understand  it, 
will  provide  him  with  input  aimed  at  reflecting  a 
comprehensive approach to the positions and ideas put 
forward in the negotiations so far, and pointing to the 
options available for charting the road ahead.
Cyprus  supports  a  comprehensive  report  of  the 
Security  Council  based  on  decision  62/557,  which, 
among  other  things,  includes  the  improvement  of  the 
Council’s  working  methods  in  order  to  enchance  its 
capacities  and  legitimacy  and  the  effectiveness  of 
its  decisions  and  actions,  as  well  as  to  increase  the 
transparency  of  its  work.  In  addition,  we  support 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories. 
We  believe  that  all  five  key  issues  identified  in  the 
aforementioned  decisions  —  namely,  categories 
of  membership,  the  question  of  the  veto,  regional 
representation, the size of an enlarged Council, working 
methods, and the relationship between the Council and 
the  General  Assembly  —  should  be  addressed  and 
resolved in a package deal through the member-driven 
process  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Only 
The  year  2015  will  mark  the  10-year  anniversary 
of  the  2005  World  Summit,  in  which  global  leaders 
recognized, among other things, the need for an early 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Furthermore,  it  has 
been  nearly  five  years  since  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations began. In decision 62/557, Member States 
resolved,  among  other  things,  to  negotiate  in  good 
faith,  with  mutual  respect  and  in  an  open,  inclusive 
and transparent manner, seeking a solution that could 
garner  the  widest  possible  political  acceptance  of 
Member States.
We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  show  the 
necessary  political  resolve,  realism  and  commitment 
to  moving  the  process  forward  and  to  agreeing 
consensually on a reform model that would address the 
concerns  and  aspirations  of  all  involved.  We  need  to 
create a more fair and representative Council that can 
reflect the twenty-first century’s reality and tackle its 
complex challenges. In order to make progress, we need 
to begin serious and committed text-based negotiations. 
We do not have the luxury of delaying this process any 
longer, since we will soon be entering the tenth round 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Let  us  remind 
ourselves that the world needs to see our determination 
to  keep  the  United  Nations  relevant,  involved  and 
resolute, with the ability to address its problems and to 
fulfil its hopes.
Mrs.  Morgan  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by the representative of Italy on behalf of the Uniting 
for  Consensus  group.  We  join  others  in  thanking  the 
Permanent  Representative of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China for introducing the annual report of the Security 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/68/2)  and  the 
United States of America for preparing its introduction.
Security  Council  reform  is  a  process  that  can  be 
guided  only  by  all  States  members  of  the  General 
Assembly, not just by a few. It is also urgently needed. 
The Council’s inaction for over two years concerning 
the crisis in Syria was the latest example of the paralysis 
that often prevents it from responding in a timely and 
effective manner, and that needs to be corrected.
In  that  regard,  Mexico  acknowledges  France’s 
recent proposal to limit the use of the veto, particularly 
in  situations  involving  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
14/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
humanity  and  genocide.  We  believe  that  would  be 
a  step  in  the  right  direction  and  would  reaffirm  the 
commitment  of  the  five  permanent  members  of  the 
Council  to  its  primary  responsibility  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Mexico  is  eager  to 
work with all those interested in the proposal in order 
to find a formula that can enable it to be applied.
Mexico reiterates its commitment to continuing to 
work  on  a  comprehensive,  transparent  and  equitable 
reform  process  without  artificial  deadlines.  We 
should  not  be  under  the  illusion  that  an  agreement 
will be reached because the Organization’s seventieth 
anniversary is on the horizon. It may be a good target if 
every State has the political will to reach a compromise, 
but  we  must  not  forget  what  happened  during  the 
sixtieth anniversary. Cyclical celebrations do not bring 
magical  solutions  that  are  not  backed  up  by  broad, 
solid agreements. As long as the lack of flexibility and 
political will on the part of some is aimed at privileging 
a few, no reform is possible. We should concentrate our 
efforts on the substance and not the calendar.
The  ultimate  result  of  our  negotiation  process 
should  be  an  effective,  transparent  Security  Council 
that  is  representative  of  all  Member  States  and 
provides  greater  opportunities  for  countries 
that 
wish  to  serve  on  the  Council  on  a  more  frequent  and 
prolonged basis, as well as those that have never been 
members. Mexico hopes that the recent reappointment 
of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as  facilitator  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  will  lead  to 
substantial progress in facilitating a process that is not 
based  on  bias  or  a  tendency  to  interpret  the  positions 
of Member States in return for support. It should be a 
comprehensive process that takes into account the five 
key  issues  in  decision  62/557  and  includes  realistic, 
viable  and  comprehensive  proposals.  The  formula  for 
reform  enlarging  the  permanent  membership,  which 
some countries in the Council are pushing, exacerbates 
the inequality that is intrinsic to the Council’s current 
composition,  to  the  detriment  of  the  goals  of  greater 
representativeness, transparency and accountability to 
the General Assembly.
Mexico  and  Uniting  for  Consensus  seek  not  to 
impose  their  views  on  the  rest  of  the  membership, 
but  to  find  a  compromise  solution  with  which  as 
many  Member  States  as  possible  can  agree.  As  Latin 
Americans,  we  understand  perfectly  the  desire  of  the 
African Group for fair representation that will enable 
it to play its rightful role in the Council. In particular, 
we recognize and support their claim for equal rights 
and  for  a  solution  to  the  entire  continent’s  historic 
lack  of  representation.  We  see  their  rightful  claim  as 
an expression of the strength that gives them unity and 
consensus,  and  not  as  an  individual  desire  for  power 
and privilege. We reiterate our willingness to continue 
to work with Africa in promoting formulas for equitable 
representation for all regional groups.
is 
the 
that  of 
Like the rest of Uniting for Consensus, we took note 
of  the  letter  of  22  October,  by  which  Member  States 
were  informed  of  the  decision  to  create  an  advisory 
group  on  Security  Council  reform,  with  the  proposal 
that  it  produce  a  basis  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  However,  we  do  not  believe  this  to 
be  a  body  that  represents  the  vast  majority  of  the 
membership of the Organization. Mexico reiterates its 
appreciation  and  full  respect  for  the  members  of  the 
advisory  group.  We  reiterate,  however,  that  the  only 
forum with the authority to make decisions on Security 
Council  reform 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  within  the  General  Assembly,  where  we 
need  no  one  to  interpret  our  wishes.  We  appreciate 
Ambassador Ashe’s assurances to our group this week 
regarding  the  mandate  and  objectives  of  his  advisory 
group.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  fact  that  it  will  not 
draft  any  official  documents  or  have  the  capacity  to 
negotiate, summarize any of the reform proposals that 
have  been  circulating  for  many  years  or  prepare  any 
draft resolutions. However, as we have seen throughout 
this  debate,  there  are  still  conflicting  interpretations, 
promoted  by  some  members  of  the  group,  regarding 
its mandate. We trust the President’s word and believe 
that  his  commitment  will  prevail  over  the  national 
positions expressed by some members of his advisory 
group. Mexico will not support any working document 
issued by the group unless it has the full approval of all 
Member  States,  which  ensures  impartiality,  including 
on the different positions of various Member States.
Both nationally and as a member of the Uniting for 
Consensus group, Mexico will continue to participate 
constructively  in  the  forthcoming  session  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  with  openness  and 
complete transparency.
Mr. Moura (Portugal): I would like to commend the 
President for convening today’s meeting and launching 
the intergovernmental process on an important subject 
at  an  early  stage  of  this  session.  I  would  also  like  to 
welcome the reappointment of Ambassador Zahir Tanin 
as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations.
13-55456
15/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
The  question  we  are  discussing  today  is  about 
equitable representation, but it is ultimately also about 
the efficacy of an organ, the Security Council, that acts 
on behalf of us all, pursuant to the Charter of the United 
Nations, to maintain international peace and security. 
In order to exercise such responsibility and address the 
challenges the world faces today, we need a strong and 
effective Security Council. And a strong and effective 
Security Council is one whose composition reflects the 
geopolitical realities and emerging regional Powers of 
the twenty-first century.
The  original  structure  of  the  Security  Council, 
with permanent and non-permanent members, has not 
changed. Could it be different? Hardly, since the structure 
results directly from the Charter of the United Nations 
that  we  have  all  ratified,  entrusting  the  permanent 
members with a specific guardian role concerning any 
modification of its provisions. No reform of the Council 
can  avoid  it.  The  need  for  ratification  of  any  Charter 
modification by the permanent members leads us to the 
pragmatic conclusion that both categories of permanent 
and non-permanent members are here to stay.
Under  that  assumption,  in  our  view  the  only  way 
to make the Council more representative is to increase 
both  categories  of  its  membership.  Moreover,  to  find 
the  right  balance  in  the  representation  of  the  Council 
as a whole, we must examine the composition of each 
category,  give  all  regional  groups  due  participation 
in the permanent category, which is still not the case, 
and  ensure  broader  participation  and  representation 
in  the  non-permanent  category.  In  the  1960s,  the 
General  Assembly  opted  to  increase  membership 
in  the  non-permanent  category  only.  We  were  then 
115 members, but five decades later, with 193 members, 
we  can  no  longer  accept  increasing  its  seats  again  in 
only  one  membership  category,  thereby  reinforcing 
even further the existing correlation. We should aim at 
an increased membership in both categories if we want 
to achieve equitable representation on the Council as a 
whole.
Secondly,  when  addressing  such  enlargement, 
one  should  be  cautious  in  order  to  maintain  an 
appropriate balance and equitable representation in the 
non-permanent  category.  For  medium-size  and  small 
States  —  which,  I  note,  constitute  the  vast  majority 
of States Members of the United Nations — that is of 
crucial  importance.  Any  proposal  that  would  reserve 
a  number  of  those  seats  for  certain  States  for  long-
term  mandates  would  substantially  hinder  the  access 
of many of the other States to serving on the Council. 
That  is  something  we  are  not  inclined  to  accept. 
Creating  a  new  category  of  seats  would  aggravate 
the  already  existing  division  among  permanent  and 
non-permanent members by including an intermediate 
category of semi-permanent members. In our view, that 
would neither serve the wider membership nor help the 
Security Council in its work, and would in fact result in 
a less representative and effective body.
Thirdly,  the  notion  of  permanent  membership  is 
tightly linked with the very notion of civility. It is as 
inherent to the category of permanent membership as 
rotation is to non-permanent seats, which should allow 
as many States as possible the opportunity, if they so 
wish, to serve on the Council.
Fourthly, proposals to increase the membership in 
both categories have been gathering increased support 
among  delegations.  While  differences  still  exist, 
increasing  convergencies  related  to  the  issue  have 
been  identified  in  the  course  of  the  recent  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  the  form  of  several 
proposals on the table, including the African position. 
Let us move forward and build on those convergencies. 
That  should  not  prevent  us  from  focusing  when  the 
time comes. However, if divergencies persist, we will 
continue  our  efforts  to  build  an  even  larger  common 
ground in the future.
In conclusion, the reform of the Security Council 
cannot  be  delayed  time  and  time  again.  As  recently 
stated by my Minister for Foreign Affairs in the general 
debate,
“It is increasingly difficult to justify why countries 
such as Brazil and India are not permanent members 
of the Security Council.” (A/68/PV.18, p. 39)
Moreover,  we  are  of  the  strong  view  that  Africa 
absolutely  deserves  permanent  representation  on  the 
Security  Council.  Africa  must  be  treated  with  justice 
and in a way that reflects its size, its economic growth 
and its weight in today’s world.
We  should  avoid  engaging  in  repetitive  exercises 
that end up feeding our divergencies. Rather, we should 
narrow our focus on that which can unite and lead to 
a  larger  common  ground  and  make  possible  further 
efforts towards consensus. In that respect, we see merit 
in  centring  future  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
a  suitable  basis  that  may  help  to  focus  on  the  main 
elements  of  reform  and  narrow  to  the  extent  possible 
the different positions on the table.
16/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
My delegation again commends the President of the 
General Assembly for opening that path of negotiations 
to  members  and  for  committing  his  leadership  to  the 
intergovernmental process on the reform of the Security 
Council. On our part, we are ready to engage actively 
and constructively in that process.
Mr.  McLay 
(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
commends the President of the General Assembly for 
taking  up  the  challenge  of  Security  Council  reform, 
the  need  for  which  was  again  strongly  emphasized  in 
many statements from our leaders in the general debate 
earlier in the session.
There  is  little  doubt  that  structures  designed  in 
the  1945  post-war  world  for  an  intergovernmental 
Organization  of  just  51  Members  are  no  longer  best-
suited to today’s 193-Member body. That is particularly 
so  with  the  Security  Council,  whose  membership  has 
been  expanded  only  once  in  the  past  68  years,  nearly 
50  years  ago,  when,  as  the  representative  of  Portugal 
has just pointed out, the membership of the Assembly 
numbered  just  over  100  —  little  more  than  half  its 
present membership.
For  whatever  reasons,  back  in  1945  some  very 
influential  States  were  left  out  of  the  original  power-
sharing  arrangements.  They  and  those  whose  power 
has  emerged  in  the  ensuing  years  understandably 
now  chafe  at  being  excluded  from  the  inner  circle 
of  the  Organization’s  most  powerful  body.  We  also 
share the view of many smaller States that the current 
number  of  non-permanent  seats  and  the  associated 
geographic groups no longer ensures either fairness in 
representation  or  opportunity  for  election.  There  are 
too many faces pressed against the window. Change is 
needed.
However,  the  past  two  decades  of  debate  have 
shown  that  there  is  no  obvious  or  easy  solution  to 
rectifying the democratic deficit that is inherent in the 
Council’s current composition, and the lack of progress 
inevitably  raises  serious  questions  as  to  whether  the 
Organization is likely in the foreseeable future to agree 
any  fundamental  structural  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.
In  New  Zealand’s  view,  that  democratic  deficit 
will  not  be  fixed  simply  by  adding  another  group  of 
permanent members, even if that might be considered 
desirable,  or,  by  extending  veto  rights.  Nor  will  the 
deficit be fixed by insisting on the status quo, despite 
the  deep  misgivings  of  some  Members  regarding  any 
expansion  in  the  category  of  permanent  membership. 
New  Zealand  believes  we  will  make  progress  only  if 
we are willing to explore and even to test solutions that 
advance the interests of the wider membership and not 
of just a few.
That is why New Zealand has expressed support for 
an intermediate solution that would offer the Assembly’s 
more  powerful  members  the  prospect  of  Security 
Council  membership  for  longer  periods  —  including 
the  possibility  of  immediate  re-election  —  and  that 
would also expand the number of seats that are held for 
two-year terms, thus ensuring that smaller States would 
not be shut out of the Council.
While  we  are  certainly  willing  to  consider  other 
ideas, we believe that an intermediate solution of that 
nature is more likely to secure the support of two thirds 
of the membership in a vote of the General Assembly, 
and also to achieve ratification by the same majority — a 
key Charter requirement that is sometimes overlooked 
by  those  who  seek  to  tally  votes  in  support  of  their 
respective positions.
This  debate  is  focused  principally  on  the  size, 
categories  of  membership,  regional  representation, 
working methods and the use of the veto in an enlarged 
and  reformed  Security  Council.  We  must  remember, 
however, that those issues are only a part of the bigger 
question  of  overall  Security  Council  reform.  Equally 
important  is  the  question  of  improving  the  current 
Council’s working methods — and that is change which 
should be achievable even in the shorter term.
We  see  that  as  an  issue  separate  from  structural 
reform.  As  my  Prime  Minister  said  when  addressing 
the Assembly in September,
“[t]he problems are more systemic and relate both 
to  the  composition  and  the  formal  and  informal 
processes of the Council” (A/68/PV.14, p. 9).
Considerations  of  efficiency  and  realpolitik  do  not 
justify  denying  elected  members  an  effective  voice 
in  Council  decision-making.  For  that  reason,  we  urge 
permanent members to take a hard look at the way in 
which they conduct their business. They could do much 
to  assuage  concerns  about  the  legitimacy  of  Council 
decisions  if  they  were  more  open  and  responsive  to 
the views of the wider membership and if they treated 
elected members of the Council, whose votes are needed 
for all formal Council decisions, more as partners. In 
that  regard,  we  particularly  welcome  the  suggestion 
from the delegation of France that there be a voluntary 
13-55456
17/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
restriction or code of conduct on the use of the veto (see 
A/68/PV.46).
We look forward to exploring those and other issues 
in the negotiations we are to conduct, and we wish the 
President every success in that endeavour.
Mr.  Donoghue  (Ireland):  I  would  like  to  begin 
thanking  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  Permanent 
by 
Representative of China and president of the Security 
Council for the month of November, for introducing the 
annual report of the Security Council (A/68/2).
the 
initiative 
Ireland  warmly  welcomes 
that 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  taken  to 
reinvigorate the search for a fair and effective solution 
to  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
We  have  confidence  in  the  advisory  group  that  has 
been  appointed,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  fruits  of 
the work that it is undertaking to identify options and a 
basis on which the intergovernmental negotiations can 
be resumed.
Everyone  recognizes,  and  has  recognized  for 
years,  that  the  Security  Council  needs  a  thorough 
overhauling.  Its  composition  is  seriously  out  of  step 
with the geopolitical realities of today’s world. We need 
a  Security  Council  that  is  more  representative,  more 
inclusive,  more  effective,  more  transparent  and  more 
accountable in its actions. We also need to find ways 
through the logjams that its own procedures can create. 
The veto rights conferred on its five permanent members 
can  on  occasion  lead  to  paralysis,  compromising  the 
Council’s  ability  to  respond  effectively  to  the  great 
global challenges that fall within its remit.
There  are  many  deficiencies  in  the  Security 
Council’s  structure  and  procedures  that  need  to  be 
addressed. For as long as we fail to agree a programme 
of  significant  reform,  we  are  perpetuating  a  deeply 
unsatisfactory  state  of  affairs.  At  a  time  when  global 
and regional challenges are proliferating and its agenda 
is  rapidly  expanding,  the  Council’s  weaknesses  are 
apparent and its authority and credibility are suffering.
We  must  make  a  concerted  effort  to  move  the 
negotiations  on  reform  of  the  Council  into  a  more 
concrete and operational phase. It is time to concentrate 
minds  around  a  concise  basis  on  which  we  can  move 
towards the decisions that are now urgently needed. It is 
also important that we set ourselves a clear time frame 
for that work. A high-level political meeting that would 
take  key  decisions  is  something  for  which  we  should 
aim during this General Assembly session. For all those 
reasons, Ireland strongly supports the timely initiative 
taken by the President of the General Assembly.
In  our  view,  the  five  reform  elements  outlined 
in  decision  62/577  are  interrelated  parts  of  a  single 
package.  Success  is  contingent  on  agreement  in  all 
five  areas.  That,  we  believe,  should  create  the  scope 
for  compromise  and  make  it  easier  rather  than  more 
difficult to reach overall agreement.
the  challenge  of  adjusting 
How  might  the  future  Council  be  composed? 
We  see  substantial  merit  in  the  various  models  for 
reform that have been put forward to date. All grapple 
with 
the  composition 
so  as  to  correct  the  anomalies  and  problems  of 
underrepresentation,  which  are  widely  acknowledged. 
African underrepresentation is perhaps the most blatant 
injustice.  There  is,  however,  disagreement  as  to  the 
best  way  forward.  No  single  model  as  currently  put 
forward commands overwhelming support. It could be 
argued  that  the  stalemate  to  which  that  has  led  is  in 
fact  undermining  the  very  institution  we  are  seeking 
to improve.
My  delegation  believes  that  whichever  reform 
model  is  chosen  should  be  capable  of  attracting  very 
extensive  support  across  the  membership.  We  need 
to  get  Security  Council  reform  right.  We  must  be 
certain  that  whatever  new  arrangements  we  make  are 
overwhelmingly accepted if the aim of enhancing the 
Council’s democratic legitimacy, restoring its authority 
and  improving  its  effectiveness  is  to  be  achieved. 
That  points  towards  compromise  and  exploration  of 
the  middle  ground.  We  should  be  willing  to  look  at 
alternative ways forward that would retain key elements 
of the main models on offer but seek to build bridges 
between them.
There  is  division  over  the  question  of  additional 
permanent seats, with strongly argued positions on both 
sides. If we are to reach an agreement that will command 
the  broadest  possible  support  and  therefore  be  solid 
and  durable,  imaginative  approaches  will  be  needed 
in  addressing  the  claims  to  permanent  membership 
that  are  made  by  a  number  of  countries  and  regions. 
Ireland would also wish to see arrangements that do not 
diminish the opportunities for smaller States to serve 
on the Council at regular intervals.
Turning  to  another  aspect  of  the  debate,  Ireland 
believes that the veto rights conferred on the permanent 
five members (P-5) are an anachronism in today’s world. 
18/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
We would ideally wish to see them ended. If that cannot 
be achieved, we see great merit in the proposal by the 
representative of France that the P-5 would voluntarily 
forgo their veto rights when the Council is discussing 
mass atrocity crimes (see A/68/PV.46). We would hope, 
indeed,  that  the  P-5  could  also  agree  to  waive  those 
rights when dealing with other issues, such as flagrant 
human  rights  violations  or  breaches  of  international 
humanitarian law.
In  conclusion,  a  rebalanced  Security  Council, 
together with a modified approach to veto rights, would 
in our view enhance significantly the effectiveness of 
the Security Council and make it fit for purpose in the 
twenty-first century.
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We thank the President for having convened this debate 
and  support  the  efforts  to  launch  negotioations  on 
Security Council reform. We also thank the Permanent 
Representative  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
for  having  introduced  the  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Security  Council  between  1  August  2012  and  31  July 
2013 (A/68/2).
Cuba  fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (see A/68/PV.46).
The  General  Assembly  has  invested  20  years  in 
discussing  this  issue.  Those  years  have  been  crucial 
in  terms  of  putting  forward  country  positions  and  to 
fostering  a  better  understanding  of  the  urgency  of 
Security  Council  reform.  It  is  difficult  to  sustain  the 
status quo nearly seven decades after the founding of 
the United Nations with the tremendous political, social 
and  economic  development  that  we  have  seen  in  the 
history of humankind during this period, in particular 
in the past 20 years.
Ms. Picco (Monaco), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Cuba reiterates the need to launch true negotiations 
on Security Council reform that would make that main 
organ of the United Nations a democratic, transparent 
and representative body. The 193 States Members of the 
United Nations would in that way feel fully represented 
and  recognize  the  full  legitimacy  of  the  provision  of 
Article 24 of the Charter, which confers on the Council 
the  responsibility  of  acting  on  behalf  of  all  Member 
States.
through various resolutions, which calls for the start of 
immediate intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform. Previous rounds of discussions and the 
bodies of proposals put forward by delegations affirm 
that  a  clear  majority  of  Member  States  support  the 
following positions, to mention but a few.
First,  the  majority  of  Member  States  support  an 
expansion  in  Security  Council  membership  in  both 
categories,  that  is,  increasing  the  number  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  Secondly, 
they  recognize  the  need  to  eliminate  the  veto  and 
immediately implement mechanisms that limit its use 
as much as possible. Thirdly, they recognize the need to 
seriously reform the working methods of the Council in 
order to ensure that it works as a transparent, democratic 
and representative organ. Fourthly, they recognize the 
need for a balanced and efficient relationship between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
Cuba  is  ready  to  begin  the  negotiations  required 
for that process without further delay, and agrees with 
the majority of delegations that all the proposals made 
during intergovernmental deliberations should be taken 
into  account.  While  Cuba’s  positions  are  very  well 
known, allow me to reiterate them for the benefit of the 
new cycle of discussions and in line with the elements 
of the letter of the President of the General Assembly 
dated 22 October.
Cuba  does  not  support  the  creation  of  new 
categories  of  membership.  Instead  of  encouraging 
better functioning of the Council, that could exacerbate 
the existing differences and foment division within the 
Council. New members of an enlarged Council, whether 
permanent  or  non-permanent,  must  have  exactly  the 
same duties and powers as the current members of that 
organ, including the right to the veto. Cuba would not 
object to the possibility of the immediate re-election of 
non-permanent members.
With  regard  to  the  veto,  Cuba’s  view  of  that 
undemocratic and anachronistic privilege, which must, 
we are firmly convinced, be eliminated, is well known. 
However,  given  that  it  would  be  unrealistic  to  expect 
that to happen right now, we believe that, as a first step, 
the use of the veto should be limited to actions taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter.
As  Member  States,  we  must  also  comply  with 
the  mandate  established  by  the  General  Assembly 
Cuba favours a large increase in Security Council 
membership.  An  enlarged  Council  should  increase  to 
13-55456
19/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
25  or  26  members.  The  expansion  should  take  place 
in both categories of membership and most of the new 
seats  should  go  to  developing  countries,  on  the  basis 
of the proposals made by the Non-Aligned Movement. 
The objective is not to expand for the sake of expansion, 
but  rather  to  respond  to  the  unjustifiable  lack  of 
representation of developing countries in the Security 
Council.
Council reform must also include the reform of its 
working  methods.  We  support  a  transparent  Security 
Council  in  which  closed-door  consultations  are  the 
exception  and  not  the  rule.  We  aspire  to  a  Council 
that  addresses  the  issues  that  it  is  responsible  for, 
which  means  that  the  Council  must  not  encroach  on 
the mandates of other organs. We want a Council that 
really considers Member States’ views before adopting 
decisions,  and  that  ensures  a  level  of  real  access  to 
States that are not members of that body.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  Cuba’s  opinion  that 
Security  Council  reform  is  a  central  element  of  the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  One  cannot  speak  of 
genuine reform of the Organization until there is real 
reform of the Council so that it functions on behalf of 
the interests of all Member States, which, in accordance 
with the Charter, is what it is supposed to do. It should 
be held accountable for that.
Mr. Sarkowicz (Poland): This year’s general debate 
proved  that  the  issue  of  an  effective  and  responsive 
Security  Council  is  one  of  the  major  concerns  of 
the  whole  membership.  The  President  of  Poland, 
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  voiced  in  his  statement 
(see A/68/PV.9) Poland’s strong support for bolstering 
the  Council’s  authority,  legitimacy  and  effectiveness. 
We believe that the appropriate moment has come for 
breaking the deadlock in the reform process.
Poland  views  the  enhancement  of  the  efficiency 
and transparency of the Council’s work, as well as its 
enlargement, as the key issues in the complex process 
of reforming the Security Council. The reform should 
be  built  on  the  assumption  that  membership  not  only 
grants  privileges  but  also,  most  important,  increases 
responsibilities.  All  Security  Council  members  are 
entrusted with an extremely important duty to defend 
and  secure  the  fundamental  values  inscribed  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Security Council reform is essential, as the current 
composition  of  the  Council  and  its  working  methods 
do  not  meet  the  challenges  of  the  world  today.  The 
taken 
into  account 
contribution  of  Member  States  to  the  Organization 
should  be 
in  considering 
modifications  of  the  Security  Council’s  composition. 
In  that  regard,  fulfilment  of  financial  obligations  and 
participation  in  peacekeeping  operations  are  of  the 
utmost importance. Reform is essential, but it should be 
done without weakening the efficiency of the Council.
Furthermore,  the  enlargement  of  the  Council 
should seek to ensure a balanced representation of all 
regional  groups.  In  that  context,  Poland  supports  a 
reform  that  would  grant  an  additional  non-permanent 
seat  to  the  East  European  States,  given  the  Group’s 
substantial enlargement in recent decades — from 9 to 
23 countries.
We  have  always  supported  efforts  to  improve  the 
working methods of the Security Council with a view 
to  making  its  actions  more  transparent.  The  Security 
Council  should  further  enhance  its  cooperation  with 
regional  organizations,  troop-contributing  countries, 
the Secretariat and the entire United Nations system. We 
support more active engagement by non-Member States 
and countries directly affected by conflict situations in 
the work of the Security Council, in particular during 
the  process  of  preparing  resolutions,  presidential 
statements and press statements. Genuine improvement 
in the functioning of the Security Council should also 
include closer consultation with civil society. We hope 
that  the  newly  established  accountability,  coherence 
and transparency group will contribute significantly to 
the discussion on the working methods of the Council.
We take note of the recent decision of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Ambassador  John  Ashe,  to 
establish his advisory group on Security Council reform 
and to organize this year’s debate on this issue earlier 
than usual. We believe that such steps may help to build 
momentum  for  an  acceleration  of  the  negotiations. 
However,  while  new  attempts  to  revitalize  the  debate 
are of the utmost importance, it is equally important to 
avoid harmful polarization of positions.
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania):  As  we  are  jointly 
debating  two  agenda  items,  I  would  like  first  to  use 
this opportunity to thank the President of the Security 
Council,  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  for  introducing  the 
Security  Council’s  annual  report  (A/68/2),  as  well 
as  the  United  States  for  preparing  its  introduction.  I 
also  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening this timely and very useful debate.
20/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
Allow me to put on record, at the very outset, my 
delegation’s  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  aimed  at  relaunching  the 
consultation  process  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  are  very  pleased  with  his  decision  to 
reappoint the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, 
His  Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  as  Chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  we  warmly 
congratulate  Ambassador  Tanin.  His  reappointment 
ensures  the  continuity  and  the  necessary  institutional 
memory  of  the  work  in  progress  and  reflects  a 
recognition  of  and  trust  in  the  skills,  dedication, 
patience  and  impartiality  that  Ambassador  Tanin  has 
demonstrated during the last couple of years. 
We  also  value  the  initiative  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  establish  an  advisory  group 
for  facilitating  the  start  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations during the current session. We hope that the 
group will cooperate fully with Ambassador Tanin so 
that the process can advance effectively. I avail myself 
of  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  all  the  colleagues 
involved  in  this  new  stage  of  the  process  and  assure 
them  of  my  delegation’s  full  interest  and  readiness 
to  contribute  to  the  progress  of  the  work  during  the 
current  session.  We  fully  appreciate  and  value  the 
extensive details on the rationale and the exact mandate 
of the group that the President of the General Assembly 
provided us with at the opening of our debate.
As we also seek to adopt feasible concrete measures 
for  Security  Council  reform  before  the  2015  summit, 
we  are  in  favour  of  accelerating  the  deliberations, 
including  with  the  input  received  from  the  advisory 
group.  The  time  has  come  to  start  negotiations  on  a 
concise draft text.
We  got  a  glimpse  of  what  lies  ahead  of  us  in 
the  next  stage  during  the  latest  Security  Council 
open  debate  on  the  Council’s  working  methods  (see 
S/PV.7052),  where  there  was  broad  recognition  of  the 
improvements  —  although  some  speakers  considered 
them  to  be  slow  and  tortured.  Nevertheless,  in  terms 
of  transparency  and  accountability,  some  progress 
has  been  achieved  through,  inter  alia,  open  debates, 
briefings  by  the  President  for  non-member  States, 
wrap-up  and  horizon-scanning  meetings  and  through 
improved  public  access  to  information.  Now  that  all 
of  those  improvements  have  been  launched,  we  need 
to maintain them so that they become the rule, not the 
exception. 
We should be realistically ambitious. That is why, 
in  our  view,  the  five  key  issues  under  consideration 
should  be  approached  independently,  at  their  own 
pace.  Among  them,  the  further  improvement  of  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods  is  definitely  the 
least  contentious  one  and  continues  to  offer  some 
chance  for  further  progress.  In  that  respect,  Romania 
finds  particularly  interesting  the  various  concrete 
proposals that have been made, particularly the recent 
ones  introduced  by  the  accountability,  coherence  and 
transparency group. 
In  most  of  the  national  statements  on  Security 
Council  reform  in  particular,  and  on  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  system  more  broadly,  2015  is  the 
deadline  for  bringing  in  deliverables.  Romania  is 
naturally  of  the  view  that  we  are  lagging  far  behind 
the  commitments  undertaken  by  our  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  at  the  2005  World  Summit  to  make 
the  Council,  which  is  a  unique  body,  more  broadly 
representative,  efficient  and  transparent,  and  thus  to 
further  enhance  its  effectiveness  and  legitimacy  and 
to  facilitate  the  implementation  of  its  decisions.  We 
therefore believe that we are at a juncture where time is 
critical for consensual and collective decisions. 
The President of the General Assembly has rightly 
anticipated  that  our  current  debates  represent  yet 
another  opportunity  for  Member  States  to  reiterate 
national  positions  on  Security  Council  reform.  Please 
allow  me  therefore  to  briefly  state  Romania’s  main 
objectives in that process. 
We  stand  firmly  for  increased  representation  of 
the East European Group and for providing for at least 
one additional non-permanent seat for the Group in the 
future architecture of the Security Council. We support 
an  expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  the  permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  categories,  within  reasonable 
limits  — that is, up to 25 members. We consider that 
an adjustment of the veto right should be based on the 
consensus  of  the  current  permanent  members,  while 
taking into consideration the needs of the Council for 
faster action, greater involvement in conflict prevention 
and  increased  efficiency.  We  fully  agree  with  the 
African, Asian, and Latin American Groups’ proposals 
for better representation in the Security Council. 
At  the  same  time,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly invited us to take this opportunity to identify 
the directions in which the search for common ground 
might be undertaken. That is why I would like to state 
13-55456
21/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
once more the strong preference of my country to engage 
in a truly intergovernmental negotiating process that is 
based on a concise document. We look forward to the 
input  of  the  advisory  group  and  to  the  15  November 
meeting  under  the  leadership  of  Ambassador  Tanin. 
Romania  sincerely  hopes  that  we  are  entering  a  new 
stage  of  the  process  that  will  be  characterized  by 
inclusiveness, transparency, predictability and stronger 
political will, a stage that will integrate all the valuable 
ideas  put  forward  so  far  as  well  as  those  that  will 
definitely continue to emerge.
Mr. Mashabane (South Africa): At the outset, we 
would like to align ourselves with the statements made 
on behalf of the African Group and the L.69 Group (see 
A/68/PV.46).
When the President of the Republic of South Africa, 
Mr. Jacob Zuma, addressed the General Assembly on 
24  September  2013,  he  said  the  following  about  the 
reform of the Security Council: 
unrepresentative 
“Allow  me,  therefore,  to  register  once  again 
our  serious  concern  that  the  Security  Council, 
almost  70  years  since  its  establishment,  remains 
undemocratic, 
unfair 
to  developing  nations  and  small  States,  and 
disenfranchises the majority of the States Members 
of the United Nations, which form the majority in 
the General Assembly. We cannot remain beholden 
indefinitely  to  the  will  of  an  unrepresentative 
minority  on 
issues  of 
international peace and security.
and 
the  most 
important 
“There  has  been  too  much  talk  about  the 
need  for  reform,  with  too  little  action.  We  would 
like  to  challenge  the  Assembly  today  by  saying 
‘Let  us  set  ourselves  the  target  to  celebrate  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  in 
2015 with a reformed, more inclusive, democratic 
and representative Security Council!’” (A/68/PV.5, 
p. 50).
We are pleased that a number of Member States are 
taking up that challenge and that more and more voices 
are  joining  in  the  call  to  achieve  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council in time for the seventieth anniversary 
of the Organization in 2015. The need for the reform of 
the Security Council has been made even more urgent 
by the Council’s inability to effectively address current 
and continuing crisis situations, and calls into question 
whether  the  Council,  as  it  is  currently  constituted, 
is  able  to  carry  out  its  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Indeed, there has been too much talk about the need 
for reform with too little action. We therefore welcome 
Mr. John Ashe’s commitment to prioritizing the matter 
during his term as President of the General Assembly. 
We  extend  our  full  support  to  the  President  and  his 
leadership  in  order  to  infuse  the  intergovernmental 
negotiating process with a sense of urgency and much-
needed  momentum.  In  his  acceptance  speech  upon 
his  election,  on  14  June,  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session (see A/67/PV.87), 
he made a pledge to advance the process of reforming 
all  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
now recognize that pledge to have been inspired by the 
commitments made at the 2005 World Summit. 
While the reform agenda covers the full spectrum 
of  global  governance,  it  has  become  necessary,  for 
the reasons mentioned, for the reform of the Security 
Council  to  be  addressed  as  a  matter  of  priority.  We 
applaud the leadership that the President of the General 
Assembly  is  showing  on  that  important  matter.  South 
Africa  views  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  as 
a  key  link  in  the  restructuring  of  the  United  Nations 
aimed  at  ensuring  that  it  is  adequately  empowered  to 
address current and future challenges that require our 
collective  action  through  the  multilateral  system  of 
governance,  as  mandated  by  our  leaders  at  the  2005 
World Summit. It is therefore imperative that we move 
with the same sense of resolve and urgency to reform 
the Security Council.
We  are  all  aware  that  for  many  years  the  open-
ended  dialogue  on  Security  Council  reform  has  not 
produced  much  in  terms  of  tangible  outcomes.  It  is 
therefore  incumbent  upon  us,  under  the  leadership  of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  to  infuse  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  with  renewed 
vigour.  It  is  high  time  that  we  progress  to  text-based 
negotiations,  an  approach  that  has  been  a  tried-and-
tested tool in the United Nations as the means to get us 
to where we need to go. In our view, a call for anything 
less is to advocate for the United Nations to remain stuck 
in  a  bygone  era,  while  the  challenges  to  maintaining 
international peace and security outpace the ability of 
the United Nations to respond effectively. We therefore 
support any initiative to move the stalled process to a 
concrete  result,  and  we  trust  that  the  advisory  group 
appointed  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
will rise to the task. 
22/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
Our preference is for text-based negotiations to start 
on  15  November.  We  see  that  as  a  realistic  approach 
that can add momentum to the process of reform in an 
inclusive and transparent manner. The draft text must 
reflect  the  aspirations  of  the  overwhelming  majority 
of  the  membership  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has 
been  calling  for  early  reform,  and  should  include  an 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories of membership.
We are fast approaching the year 2015, which will 
be  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
and which will also be the culmination of the decade 
following the 2005 World Summit, when our Heads of 
State  and  Government  mandated  us  to  achieve  early 
reform of the Security Council. My delegation believes 
that it is within our reach to deliver a reformed Security 
Council  in  time  to  celebrate  that  milestone  occasion. 
The world has changed since 1945, and the membership 
of the United Nations has quadrupled since then. The 
only organ that has remained the same for the past seven 
decades is the Security Council, and that is untenable. 
It  is  an  irony  that  those  who  consider  themselves  the 
leaders of the free world and the bastions of democracy 
are themselves comfortable sitting in an undemocratic, 
archaic and unrepresentative structure.
The more we continue with rhetoric and do not get 
down to the business of negotiating actual reform, the 
status quo continues to favour those who are privileged 
by the post-Second World War settlement. Africans are 
not  going  to  accept  the  view  that  we  should  maintain 
the status quo while 70 per cent of the workload of the 
Security Council deals with African issues. Therefore, 
we  would  like  to  call  on  all  progressive  forces  and 
like-minded  countries  to  begin  to  consider  producing 
a framework text covering all five agreed areas. Such a 
framework text would draw inspiration from the third 
revised draft that the facilitator produced some months 
ago. Based on the statements that have been made since 
the beginning of the intergovernmental negotiations by 
Member  States  and  the  observations  of  the  facilitator 
a year and a half ago, it is clear that the overwhelming 
majority of the States Members of the United Nations 
would  like  to  see  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council with an expansion in both categories 
of membership.
We would like to make one point clear. The Charter 
is very unambiguous on the numbers required to amend 
it, and we therefore would not want to be drawn into a 
view  that  reform  can  be  achieved  only  by  consensus. 
The reality is that those who are opposed to the call for 
a comprehensive review and reform know very well that 
they are in the minority and that they are on the wrong 
side of history. They continue to use all the tricks in the 
book to delay and frustrate the process with a view to 
paralysing it.
In conclusion, South Africa believes that the time 
to  engage  in  text-based  negotiation  is  now.  That  can 
happen only if all those who would like to see an early 
reform  unite  and  support  the  facilitator,  Ambassador 
Tanin.  The  meeting  of  15  November  cannot  be  yet 
another  debate  filled  with  rhetoric,  but  should  be 
about the text that is intended to serve as a base for the 
negotiations. By now we know one another’s positions 
on  reform.  What  we  need  now  is  for  those  positions 
to  be  packaged,  just  as  the  facilitator  did  when  he 
produced his third draft text. A failure of the General 
Assembly to adopt a framework resolution in 2015 risks 
rendering the Security Council irrelevant, illegitimate 
and unaccountable.
Finally,  we  have  noted 
that  most  Member 
States  support  the  legitimate  claim  of  Africans  for 
representation  in  the  permanent  category.  However, 
we are concerned that such claims of support have not 
been  translated  into  concrete  actions  of  support  for 
early  reform.  It  is  far-fetched  to  think  that  reform  is 
only  for  the  benefit  of  Africa.  Therefore,  expressions 
of support should be located within the broad context 
of  comprehensive  reform;  otherwise,  such  support  is 
meaningless.
Ms. Lalić Smajević (Serbia): My delegation would 
like to thank the President for convening this meeting to 
discuss one of the most important issues on the agenda 
of the United Nations, and we wish therefore to express 
our  appreciation  for  his  commitment  to  drive  the 
process forward. We would like to take this opportunity 
to  congratulate  the  representative  of  Afghanistan  on 
his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council. We 
would  also  like  to  join  previous  speakers  in  thanking 
China  for  introducing  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report (A/68/2) to the General Assembly, and the United 
States of America for preparing its introduction.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that 
the  Republic  of  Serbia 
to 
multilateralism in international relations and is a strong 
believer  in  the  crucial  and  irreplaceable  role  of  the 
United Nations in safeguarding international peace and 
is  firmly  committed 
13-55456
23/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
security and in promoting universal democratic values, 
human rights and development.
My country is a strong advocate for a reform and 
revitalization of the United Nations system that aims to 
adjust it to contemporary circumstances and streamline 
it to make it more realistically reflect the political and 
economic  relations  of  the  twenty-first  century.  The 
driving force and political framework for that process 
was  provided  by  world  leaders  at  the  2005  World 
Summit, whose Outcome described early reform of the 
Council as
“an essential element of our overall efforts to reform 
the  United  Nations  ...  in  order  to  make  [it]  more 
broadly  representative,  efficient  and  transparent 
and  thus  to  further  enhance  its  effectiveness  and 
the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions.” 
(resolution 60/1, para. 153)
Bearing that in mind, let me recall that, more than 
five years ago, in 2008, the current negotiating process 
was established by decision 62/557, which the General 
Assembly adopted by consensus. It has since provided 
Member States with a platform for discussing the future 
of the Security Council. Meanwhile, the rapidity of the 
changes taking place outside these walls is increasingly 
outpacing  the  tempo  of  reforms  that  we  are  able  to 
agree  upon.  It  is  therefore  important  to  speed  up  the 
current  process  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
during this session in accordance with decision 67/561, 
of 29 August.
In order to accelerate that process, we must invest 
our best efforts in an effort to find a compromise solution 
and establish a joint platform that is acceptable to the 
majority of the Organization. In future negotiations, we 
should  proceed  from  the  fact  that  the  membership  is 
united  in  the  conviction  that  Security  Council  reform 
is  necessary,  in  line  with  the  conclusions  of  the  2005 
World  Summit.  Additional  efforts  should  be  made  to 
overcome  the  existing  differences  and  ensure  even 
greater convergence on all the aspects of the reform, as 
well as on all available models and proposals by Member 
States. We believe that the sensitive and complex nature 
of the issue should not deter us from working hard, with 
mutual  respect,  in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent 
manner.  In  that  context,  the  Republic  of  Serbia  will 
support  every  country  working  towards  a  reform  that 
realistically reflects the situation at the global level.
We  believe  that  an  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council  should  be  based  on  the  broadest  possible 
consensus on the part of Member States. At the same 
time,  it  should  ensure  the  proper  representation  in 
that body of Member States from the various regional 
groups.  In  that  context,  we  would  appreciate  it  if  the 
possibility  of  creating  yet  another  seat  for  the  East 
European  Group  could  be  seriously  discussed  during 
the next stage of Security Council reform negotiations, 
in view of the fact that the number of countries in that 
region has increased.
It is essential to maintain the trust and confidence 
of  the  entire  membership  in  the  process  so  that  it 
can  continue  in  a  constructive  manner.  Success  in 
achieving a comprehensive reform of the Organization 
that  takes  into  account  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States  while  encompassing  the  five  key  issues  set 
out  in  decision  62/557  will  require  greater  flexibility, 
mutual understanding and the political daring to reach 
a compromise.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our  hope  that 
we  shall  find  the  courage  and  wisdom  to  take  the 
negotiations to the next stage in the period ahead. That 
would further enhance the General Assembly’s status as 
a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations and, in 
that way, advance the efforts of generations to entrench 
peace, security and prosperity across the globe.
The  Republic  of  Serbia  will  continue  to  engage 
constructively  and  to  cooperate  closely  with  other 
Member  States  in  advancing  the  main  objectives  of 
Security Council reform.
Mrs. Namgyel (Bhutan): My delegation is pleased 
to  participate  in  the  discussions  under  the  important 
agenda  item  123,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters”.  In  doing 
so,  my  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
views  expressed  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis on behalf of the L.69 group (see 
A/68/PV.46).
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  that  a  matter 
of  great  urgency  is  receiving  the  requisite  attention 
under  the  able  leadership  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly. In that connection, we welcome the 
reappointment of Ambassador Tanin as the Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  My  delegation  would 
like  to  wish  him  every  success  in  taking  the  process 
forward and to assure him of our full cooperation.
intergovernmental  negotiations  under 
the 
Chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Tanin  has  made 
The 
24/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
commendable  progress,  and  it  is  now  imperative  that 
the process move forward on the basis of a text-based 
negotiations. Towards that end, we welcome the timely 
initiative of the President to convene an advisory group 
to assist him and to provide input to facilitate the work 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  without  further 
delay. If the advisory group is to begin its work on an 
auspicious track, it must include in its draft the desire 
of  an  overwhelming  majority  of  the  States  Members 
of the United Nations for an early reform, which, inter 
alia, includes an expansion in both the permanent and 
non-permanent categories of membership.
The reform of the Security Council is compelling 
and  has  been  called  for  by  world 
leaders  and 
representatives  of  almost  every  nation,  both  outside 
and  within  this  Hall  —  testimony  of  the  unanimous 
conviction  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 
States  that  it  is  high  time  for  change.  By  now,  the 
positions  of  each  group,  perhaps  even  each  Member 
State, have been well articulated during the last eight 
rounds of the intergovernmental negotiations. Reform 
efforts must be expedited, taking into account the most 
accommodative, inclusive and judicious of those views 
if  the  United  Nations  is  to  adapt  to  the  transformed 
realities  and  to  continue  to  retain  its  relevance  and 
credibility.
The United Nations will be 70 years old in 2015. We 
will also be marking the end of a decade since Heads 
of  State  and  Governments  mandated  us  to  achieve 
early reform of the Security Council at the 2005 World 
Summit. Surely, we cannot and must not fail to deliver 
concrete outcomes for such a historic timeline.
Before concluding, may I also join other delegations 
in placing on record our appreciation to His Excellency 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  China  for 
the 
comprehensive annual report on the work of the Security 
Council  (A/68/2),  as  well  as  to  the  delegation  of  the 
United States for preparing the report’s introduction.
Mrs.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  Let  me  thank  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this  plenary  meeting  on  agenda  item  123,  concerning 
Security Council reform.
The  Solomon  Islands  would  like  to  align  its 
statement  with  that  made  by  the  representative  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis on behalf of the L.69 group (see 
A/68/PV.46), as well as with the statement to be made 
this  afternoon  by  the  representative  of  Papua  New 
Guinea on behalf of the small island developing States 
of the Pacific.
A reform of the Council remains an essential and 
integral  element  of  our  overall  effort  to  reform  the 
multilateral system. It has, however, eluded us for the 
past 15 years in the Open-ended Working Group on the 
Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase 
in the Membership of the Security Council and Other 
Matters Related to the Security Council, before entering 
intergovernmental negotiations for the past five years. 
A wealth of ideas have been collated over the years.
In  that  connection,  Solomon  Islands  registers 
its  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  taking  a  fresh  look  at  where  we  are  in 
the negotiations. My delegation shares the appreciation 
of those who have spoken before me in welcoming the 
reappointment of His Excellency Ambassador Tanin to 
manage  our  intergovernmental  negotiations  process. 
He has been with us from the beginning. Once again, as 
always, my delegation takes this opportunity to assure 
Ambassador  Tanin  of  Solomon  Islands’  support  and 
cooperation going forward.
The  work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process is guided by the Charter of the United Nations, 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), the 
relevant rules of procedure and past practice. Decision 
62/557 identifies the five key negotiable elements. We 
certainly  have  a  document  that  compiles  all  of  our 
positions; it now needs to be streamlined for it to be a 
negotiable text.
in 
initiating 
My  delegation  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
President’s  hands-on  approach 
the 
establishment of an advisory group of ambassadors to 
assist  his  Office.  That  initiative  will  breathe  life  into 
our  stale  intergovernmental  negotiations  process.  We 
congratulate  the  ambassadors  on  their  appointment 
and look forward to working with them. We would like 
them  to  produce  a  streamlined  negotiating  text  based 
on submissions made by the membership. Once that is 
done, it will bring all our thoughts together in a single 
text that allows us to take collective action on negotiable 
elements  that  already  enjoy  general  consensus.  The 
output  of  their  work  should  remain  State-driven  and 
should  feed 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. We are clear about the fact that we are not 
creating another negotiating track.
the  resumed 
into 
We  live  and  operate  in  a  fast-changing  world. 
Already,  we  have  seen  deep  integration  within  some 
13-55456
25/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
regions of the Organization that have already developed 
a common foreign policy. That needs to be taken into 
consideration  in  any  reform  outcome.  We  must  also 
avoid  going  into  the  negotiations  with  conditions  that 
put  the  process  in  a  straitjacket.  We  call  on  everyone 
to  come  to  the  table  with  a  vision  to  strengthen  the 
Council’s role in the maintenance of international peace 
and security and to ensure that structural change in the 
Council happens.
I will now go through the Solomon Islands’ position 
on  the  five  Security  Council  reform  elements  as  they 
have  been  stated  or  restated  over  the  years  —  the 
questions of the veto, regional representation, the size 
of  an  enlarged  Council,  the  relationship  between  the 
Council and the General Assembly, and the Council’s 
working methods.
Of the five negotiable elements, we see improving 
the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  as  the 
low-hanging fruit that does not warrant change to the 
Charter of the United Nations and that already has the 
widest possible support of everyone.
I  will  be  bold  and  suggest  that  the  President  may 
wish  to  consider  drafting  a  resolution  on  improving 
the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  that 
addresses the legitimacy, inclusiveness, representation 
and  transparency  of  the  Council.  We  can  build  on 
work already done by the group of five small nations. 
We  acknowledge  the  work  done  by  the  Council  itself 
on  improving  its  working  methods.  The  Council’s 
efforts complement the work to be done by the General 
Assembly.
On the question of the veto, we would like to see it 
abolished. But in the event that it is retained, the rights 
and privileges of the veto must be accorded to all new 
members to ensure that everyone with a permanent seat 
is on equal footing. The use of the veto is also linked to 
improved working methods that provide for limitations 
on the use of the veto.
On  enlargement  in  the  number  of  permanent 
and  non-permanent  seats,  Solomon  Islands  supports 
enlargement  in  both  categories.  We  would  also  like 
to see a seat for small island developing States in the 
non-permanent category.
With respect to equitable regional and geographical 
representation in terms of the permanent seats, special 
attention must be focused on unrepresented or under-
represented regions.
On the relationship between the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council,  we  would  like  to  see  it 
improve. My delegation acknowledges that the Council’s 
annual report to the General Assembly strengthens the 
relationship  between  the  two  organs.  We  thank  the 
Chinese  delegation  for  its  introduction  of  the  report 
(A/68/2) yesterday (see A/68/PV.46).
Finally,  I  conclude  by  stating  that  we  need  a 
reformed Security Council to match the realities of the 
twenty-first  century.  Solomon  Islands,  like  all  of  the 
Pacific States, stands ready to engage in reforming the 
Council.  We  hope  to  see  progress  in  the  negotiations 
carried out in good faith, with mutual respect and in an 
open, inclusive and transparent manner.
Ms. Philippa Jane King (Australia): First, let me 
thank  you,  Madam  President,  for  presiding  over  this 
joint  debate  on  the  Security  Council  annual  report 
(A/68/2) and Security Council reform — a subject on 
which Australia is a long-standing advocate. Australia 
welcomes  the  introduction  of  the  Security  Council 
annual report, made by the Permanent Representative 
of  China,  Ambassador  Liu  Jieyi,  in  his  capacity  as 
President  of  the  Council  for  this  month.  We  also 
thank  the  United  States  delegation,  along  with  other 
Council members, for their work on the report. We look 
forward to a more substantive discussion in the General 
Assembly on the annual report later this month.
Substantive reform of the Security Council is long 
overdue.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  achieve 
progress  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform during the sixty-eighth session 
of the General Assembly. Indeed, the priority that the 
President of the General Assembly has attached to the 
issue during his presidency is welcome and significant. 
We  commend  his  reappointment  of  Afghanistan’s 
Ambassador  Tanin  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. Having led the General Assembly’s work 
on  the  issue  consistently  since  2008,  Ambassador 
Tanin’s reappointment will be an important element in 
maintaining  continuity,  focus  and  an  appreciation  of 
the complexities of the issues under discussion.
We also welcome the appointment by the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  of  a  new  advisory  group  on 
Security  Council  reform,  composed  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Belgium,  Brazil,  Liechtenstein, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  San  Marino  and  Sierra  Leone. 
We have full confidence in the substantial intellectual 
contribution  and  integrity  of  those  individuals  and 
the  group.  Given  the  need  for  a  strong  Council  with 
26/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
the  capacity  to  tackle  today’s  international  peace  and 
security challenges, we support that initiative. We have 
a rare opportunity to achieve lasting successful reform, 
and  we  should  seize  it.  We  need  to  shift  the  mindset 
from posturing to practical, real negotiations.
police-contributing  countries  —  those  countries  that 
are  actually  working  to  implement  Council  mandates 
on  the  ground,  as  well  as  key  organs  of  the  United 
Nations,  such  as  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
regional and subregional organizations.
Australia  has  long  supported  an  expansion  of 
the  Council’s  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  That  is  important  both  to 
ensure  a  more  equitable  geographic  balance  and  to 
enhance the Council’s legitimacy. Both of those factors 
are  important  drivers  of  reform.  As  we  have  said 
before, all Member States have a stake in the Council’s 
decisions.  The  Council  has  universal  responsibilities 
and engages in situations across regions, particularly in 
Africa, for which the case for permanent membership is 
clear and compelling.
Since  joining  the  United  Nations  as  a  founding 
Member,  Australia  has  also  argued  strenuously  for 
limits on the use of the veto, and promoted transparency 
as  integral  to  the  Security  Council’s  legitimacy. 
We  remain  strongly  committed  to  those  principles, 
particularly as an elected Security Council member for 
this year and next.
The  growing  complexity  and  breadth  of  the 
Council’s  agenda  makes  it  all  the  more  necessary 
for the Council to adapt to modern times. The key to 
effectiveness lies in a more representative, transparent 
and legitimate Security Council.
A  major  criticism  of  the  Council  is  that  in  recent 
times,  in  the  face  of  major  humanitarian  crises,  it 
has  failed  to  discharge  its  responsibility  to  maintain 
peace  and  security —  a  responsibility  it  exercises  on 
behalf of all Member States. Much criticism is directed 
towards the impact of the use or the threat of use of the 
veto.  Given  the  recent  Syrian  experience,  we  believe 
France’s proposal for permanent members to voluntarily 
renounce  their  veto  powers  in  cases  of  mass  atrocity 
crimes  has  merit  and  deserves  further  consideration. 
We should seriously discuss how to take that proposal 
forward.
Without prejudice to other aspects of Council reform, 
Australia  supports  early  efforts  to  realize  immediate 
and tangible benefits in the Council’s working methods. 
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Council,  we  have  seen 
first-hand  the  importance  of  and  the  need  for  greater 
transparency and accountability in the Council’s work, 
including  to  enhance  engagement  with  the  broader 
United  Nations  membership,  in  particular  troop-  and 
As we said during the Security Council open debate 
on working methods held on 29 October (see S/PV.7053), 
the accountability, coherence and transparency group, 
established in May, has greatly informed our work as a 
Council member, and we value our collaboration with 
the members of the group.
The  notes  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
28  August  (S/2013/515)  and  28  October  (S/2013/630) 
represent 
the 
Council’s  engagement  with  the  wider  membership, 
including troop- and police-contributing countries.
towards  enhancing 
important  steps 
As the President of the General Assembly has said, 
Member States must now consider how to reinvigorate 
their  efforts  in  order  to  find  common  ground  on 
the  issue.  Today  and  yesterday  have  seen  useful 
discussions.  But  now  let  us  try  to  make  substantive 
progress.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  hearing  the 
ideas  of  the  membership  as  well  as  the  ideas  of  the 
advisory group on how to take the issue forward. It will 
require flexibility, cooperation, creative solutions and, 
above all else, some political will. But we must make 
progress to strengthen and modernize the Council. The 
challenges that face it and that face all of us are great 
and growing, and we need to remake a body that will 
meet them.
Mr. Reetoo (Mauritius): Mauritius aligns itself with 
the statement on Security Council reform delivered by 
the Permanent Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
on behalf of the L.69 group (see A/68/PV.46).
The  debate  over  Security  Council 
reform 
has  endured  for  far  too  long.  World  leaders  at  the 
Millennium  Summit  resolved  to  intensify  efforts 
to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council in all its aspects. At the 2005 World Summit, 
our leaders supported the early reform of the Security 
Council as an essential element of the overall reform of 
the United Nations in order to make the Council more 
broadly  representative,  efficient  and  transparent,  and 
thus further enhance its effectiveness, legitimacy and 
the implementation of its decisions.
is  convinced  of 
for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  that 
upholds  the  principles,  objectives  and  ideals  of  the 
Mauritius 
the  need 
13-55456
27/29
A/68/PV.48 
08/11/2013
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the 
reform  should  promote  greater  equity  and  take  into 
consideration the major political and economic changes 
that the world has witnessed since the inception of the 
Organization.  Mauritius  also  considers  that  the  time 
has  come  for  text-based  negotiations  to  take  place 
within the intergovernmental process.
We welcome the reappointment of His Excellency 
Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations and wish him success in steering the process 
forward. We also support the initiative of the President 
of the General Assembly to appoint an advisory group 
to assist him in that important process during the sixty-
eighth session of the General Assembly.
the 
Mauritius  supports  the  L.69  proposal  because  we 
believe  that  it  is  consistent  with  the  African  common 
position, as embodied in the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  We  believe  in  Africa’s  rightful 
aspiration  to  enhanced  representation  in  the  Security 
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories. We also subscribe to the view that, as long 
as permanent members of the Security Council have the 
right of veto, the new permanent members of a reformed 
Security Council, too, should have the right of veto. We 
also fully support the proposal that the expansion of the 
Security  Council  should  include  one  non-permanent 
seat for small island developing States.
After  debates  spanning  more  than  two  decades, 
the  international  community  should  start  real  and 
meaningful  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform. 
Mauritius believes that the celebration of the seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations, in the year 2015, will 
be an important turning point, at which we should be 
able to deliver concrete outcomes on this most pressing 
subject.  We  hope  that  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  under  the  able  leadership  of  the  President, 
will generate the necessary political will and collective 
effort to take the process forward.
Mr.  Viinanen  (Finland):  Allow  me  to  commend 
His Excellency Mr. John Ashe, President of the General 
Assembly, for convening this meeting on the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council.  We  thank  the 
President  for  his  commitment  to  achieving  progress 
on that important topic. We firmly believe that, under 
his able leadership, it is possible to move forward and 
achieve concrete results in that protracted process.
The Security Council is the principal organ of the 
United  Nations  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Many  factors  determine  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Security Council and the authority that it carries in the 
international community. Most important is the quality 
of the decisions and the political and practical ability 
to carry them out. We are concerned that the ability of 
the Security Council to take the necessary decisions is 
too often compromised due to the right of the veto of 
permanent members. The Security Council must show 
that atrocity crimes are not tolerated by the international 
community. We join other Members in asking that the 
permanent members of the Council refrain from the use 
of veto in such cases.
openness 
and 
inclusiveness 
I  think  that  we  all  agree  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  crucial.  The  composition  and 
the  working  methods  play  a  key  role  in  the  reform. 
Transparency, 
are 
relevant concepts in improving the functioning of the 
Security Council. We are proud to be members of the 
accountability,  coherence  and  transparency  group, 
whose purpose is to develop and improve the working 
methods of the Council. The composition of the future 
Security Council is, of course, the main issue. Efforts 
to  improve  the  working  methods  are  not  a  substitute 
for increasing the representativeness of the Council. In 
view of the realities of today’s world, an enlargement 
of  the  Security  Council  is  necessary  in  both  the 
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories,  but 
without extending the right of the veto.
The  Security  Council  needs  large  and  small 
countries.  Even  the  smallest  countries  can  make  a 
valuable contribution to the work of the Council in the 
benefit  of  international  peace  and  security,  However, 
size  is  not  everything.  We  need  better  geographic 
represention. The underrepresentation of Africa is a key 
issue to address and to resolve in the reform process.
Finally, let me underline that Finland wholeheatedly 
supports  Security  Council  reform.  We  hope  that  all 
Members of the United Nations will have an open mind 
and  be  ready  to  discuss  new  ideas.  That  process  can 
succeed only if we focus on possible solutions, not on 
disagreements. Finland remains committed to engaging 
actively  and  constructively  in  order  to  advance  the 
reform. We look forward to making tangible progress 
under  the  guidance  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.
28/29 
13-55456
08/11/2013 
A/68/PV.48
(Jamaica): 
Mr.  Rattray 
Jamaica  associates 
itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  representing 
the  L.69  group  and  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Guyana on behalf of the Caribbean Community on 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters (see A/68/PV.46). I also join other delegations 
in thanking the representative of China for introducing 
the annual report of the Security Council (A/68/2).
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  one  of  the 
most powerful organs of the United Nations, is an issue 
that  has  long  been  on  the  agenda  of  this  institution. 
The  Security  Council’s  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
has  made  it  necessary  to  ensure  that  there  is  greater 
access, 
transparency,  accountability 
and effectiveness for an improvement in the Council’s 
overall performance.
inclusiveness, 
Since  Jamaica  became  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  on  18  September  1962,  we  have  witnessed  a 
steady growth in the membership of the Organization 
following  the  independence  of  many  former  colonies. 
With the rapid influx of new Members came loud calls 
in 1963 for a rearrangement of the composition of the 
Security Council. Jamaica was at the vanguard of that 
initiative, which heralded an expansion in the number 
of  non-permanent  seats  from  6  to  10.  Since  then,  we 
have had the privilege of serving twice on the Security 
Council.  Having  done  so,  we  have  experienced  first-
hand  the  complexities  of  the  Council  and  its  inner 
workings,  as  well  as  the  need  for  its  restructuring 
in  order  to  safeguard  its  legitimacy  and  enhance  its 
credibility.
Jamaica  therefore  raises  its  voice  in  support  of 
the  continuation  of  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  underscores  the  urgent  need  to  move  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process forward. In that 
vein, we welcome this debate and applaud the President 
the 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  his  reappointment  of 
Ambassador  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  on  Security  Council  reform.  We 
likewise  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  advisory 
group to facilitate the continuation of the negotiations 
process  and  note  its  composition  of  Member  States 
from  a  wide  cross-section  representing  the  different 
positions. Such developments have provided us with a 
new  opportunity  to  move  the  process  forward  on  the 
basis of text-based negotiations.
We therefore reiterate our continued support for an 
expansion in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories of membership of the Security Council. We 
believe that the new permanent members should include 
countries from Africa, Asia and Latin America, and that 
the new non-permanent members should be from Asia, 
Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean and 
Africa. That takes into account the need to ensure the 
representation of developing countries, including small 
island developing States, whose participation should be 
on the basis of the concept of rotating seats.
the  Security  Council  and 
With regard to the working methods of the Council, 
we are supportive of the view that there should be an 
improvement in those methods and in the relationship 
between 
the  General 
Assembly. Jamaica believes that appropriate measures 
must  be  adopted  to  enable  the  General  Assembly  to 
function  effectively  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policy-
making and representative organ of the United Nations.
In conclusion, Jamaica remains convinced that Security 
Council  reform  is  an  important  element  in  ensuring 
effective global governance. The United Nations must 
not only be a forum for discussion of global issues but 
must  demonstrate  leadership  and  be  an  example  of 
that.  A  failure  to  achieve  concrete  outcomes  on  such 
a pressing subject would be tantamount to a failure to 
build  and  sustain  peace  for  a  safer  world  for  this  and 
future generations.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
13-55456
29/29
