United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
9th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 25 September 2013, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/68/PV.9
Official Records
President: Mr. Ashe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Antigua and Barbuda)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Beck (Solomon 
Islands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Address by Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President 
of the Republic of Serbia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Nikolić  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my  great  honour 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  and  inform  members  about  the 
positions held by my country on some important global 
issues,  developments  in  and  around  Serbia  and  the 
efforts that Belgrade has made with a view to reaching 
a  just  solution  to  problems  facing  the  country  and  its 
neighbourhood.
First of all, I would like to thank the President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session for his 
excellent  stewardship  and  organization  of  this  debate 
and the leadership he has demonstrated in his high-level 
post. I wish him every success in the performance of his 
duties as President of the General Assembly. I assure 
him that he will enjoy the support of the Republic of 
Serbia in the discharge of his mandate. He can count on 
our assistance in bringing his ideas to fruition.
At the same time, I would like to congratulate His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  former  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  on  his  courage  and  impeccable 
work in presiding over the Assembly for the past year 
and  on  the  understanding  he  has  demonstrated  of  the 
problems encountered all over the world. He represented 
Serbia in a dignified manner while being an impartial 
professional of high standing.
The Republic of Serbia attaches great importance 
to the United Nations and the activities and cooperation 
carried  out  within  its  framework.  We  remain  true  to 
the Charter of the United Nations and the purposes and 
principles enshrined therein. We will endeavour, to the 
extent  of  our  ability,  to  make  a  contribution  to  their 
implementation.
We  are  also  determined  to  participate  in  the  new 
initiatives  being  taken  within  the  United  Nations.  I 
welcome the well-chosen theme for this year’s session. 
The post-2015 development agenda and the preparations 
to be made in order to define a future global development 
framework  are  important  issues,  and  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  right  forum  in  which  to  hold  these 
discussions  and,  more  important,  come  to  agreement 
on  them.  I  am  confident  that  the  current  Assembly 
session  will  be  successful  in  the  consideration  of  the 
agenda items highlighted by its President, namely, the 
contribution of women, youth and civil society to the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
13-48563 (E)
*1348563*
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
The  deadline  for 
implementation  of 
post-2015  development  agenda  and  human  rights  and 
the rule of law in that agenda.
the 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  to  which 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  fully  subscribes, 
is  fast 
approaching, and the United Nations and today’s world 
are at a crossroads. The process that has been initiated 
is an ambitious and complicated one. Even the outcome 
document  of  the  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  66/288,  annex), 
entitled  “The  future  we  want”,  makes  it  incumbent 
upon us to take action.
I hope that the work of the Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals will be a success. The 
Republic  of  Serbia  appreciates  the  opportunity  given 
to it, as a member of the Group, to help in the drafting 
process aimed at establishing sustainable development 
goals. For our part, we will do our utmost to contribute 
to  defining  sustainable  development  goals  in  clear 
terms.  We  believe  that  the  sustainable  development 
goals should be global in nature but, at the same time, 
have  the  capacity  to  be  implemented  in  all  countries, 
as  countries  differ  so  much  in  their  capacity,  level  of 
development, priorities and policies.
It  goes  without  saying  that,  in  identifying  the 
sustainable  development  goals,  priority  should  be 
accorded  to  energy  efficiency,  renewable  resources 
and  climate  change.  Key  development  goals  should 
deal with sustainable economic development because, 
without  it,  it  will  be  impossible  to  achieve  social 
development,  reduce  hunger,  poverty,  unemployment 
and inequality, prevent further wage level disparities or 
protect the environment.
I  expect  that  attention  will  also  be  focused  on 
implementing a global mechanism to prevent economic 
shocks from developed countries from spilling over to 
developing  countries  and  destabilizing  international 
financial  markets.  As  part  of  the  process,  voices 
from both “have” and “have-not” countries should be 
equally valued. Developing countries should highlight 
the  problems,  and  developed  countries  should  act  as 
partners in resolving them. 
As  a  new  member  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  for  the  period  2014  to  2016,  the  Republic 
of  Serbia  will  participate  in  all  Council  activities 
related to the MDGs and setting the stage of the post-
2015  development  agenda.  However,  there  can  be  no 
development  —  sustainable,  unsustainable,  economic 
or social — in war-torn areas. 
Even today, at the outset of the twenty-first century, 
it is unfortunate that many war zones exist throughout 
the  world.  My  country  has  participated  in  United 
Nations-led  peacekeeping  operations  for  decades.  In 
many continents, memories of Serbia’s contributions to 
peace efforts remain very much alive. 
We will continue to apply lessons learned to find 
solutions to specific problems in the field and to improve 
our peacekeepers’ response capacities in terms of the 
challenges they will face in carrying out their mandates 
and with a view to achieving maximum performance. 
Serbian  service  and  police  personnel  are  engaged 
in multinational operations in the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Uganda, the Middle East and Somali 
waters  and  soon  in  Mali  as  well.  They  all  serve  as 
proper representatives of their country through actions 
in favour of peace. 
We are prepared to increase, in the coming period, 
the size of our contribution and equipment in terms of 
national  contingents  and  to  make  use  of  the  available 
United Nations standby arrangements. In line with our 
policies based on Security Council resolutions, we will 
also promote the participation of our servicewomen in 
peace missions.
Serbia’s  engagement  in  United  Nations  missions 
and other multinational operations represents our firm 
contribution to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  The  Republic  of  Serbia  has  no  ulterior 
motive  behind  sending  its  troops  to  other  countries, 
other  than  to  provide  assistance.  For  that  reason,  we 
would  like  to  see  the  personnel  of  the  Serbian  armed 
forces  and  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior  welcomed  and 
accepted  both  by  the  Governments  of  the  friendly 
countries  to  which  they  are  deployed  and  the  local 
populations and that they would be seen as supportive 
partners,  rather  than  as  foreign  troops  and  occupying 
forces.
When  seconding  its  personnel  to  multinational 
operations, Serbia has no interest — military, political 
or economic — but to help a friend in need and show 
the other contingents contributing to the operation that 
our troops may be counted upon to help.
Apart  from  wars,  there  is  another  omnipresent 
global danger looming large over the core values of the 
2/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
United Nations. That danger is terrorism, which poses 
a  threat  to  fundamental  human  rights  and  creates  an 
obstacle to business, thus undermining development as 
well.
As  a  State  party  to  most  international  counter-
terrorism conventions, the Republic of Serbia attaches 
great  significance  to  international  activities  aimed  at 
suppressing terrorism. And we are adapting our domestic 
legislation  to  stem  the  scourge.  We  unequivocally 
support  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy and all of the relevant resolutions adopted by 
the General Assembly and the Security Council. 
Serbia,  as  a  victim  of  terrorist  attacks  that  have 
even taken the lives of children — the most innocent 
segment  of  its  population  —  understands  well  the 
need  for  regional  and  broader  counter-terrorism 
cooperation. Because terrorism knows no boundaries, 
States Members of the United Nations must be ready to 
cooperate without compromise, prejudice, or limitations 
and  without  any  exceptions  or  special  cases  allowing 
terrorist  actions  against  one’s  own  people  under  the 
pretext of so-called “freedom fighting”. 
In  that  context,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
make  progress  on  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism. Serbia strongly 
condemns  terrorism  in  any  shape  or  form,  without 
regard to who the perpetrators may be, wherever such 
acts may be committed or for whatever purpose.
to 
limit 
itself 
to  statements  made 
On  the  other  hand,  no  one  has  the  right,  Serbia 
included, 
in 
condemnation.  Victims  of  terrorist  acts  worldwide, 
those injured in attacks or the families of victims have 
the right to demand that persons responsible for such acts 
be brought to justice and that any further recruitment of 
terrorists or financing of their organizations end.
The Republic of Serbia attaches great importance 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
is  striving  to  fully  comply  with  the  internationally 
recognized  standards  in  that  area.  Serbia  has  taken  a 
step forward regarding the enjoyment of human rights 
by  minority  groups,  particularly  national  minorities, 
women and children and persons with special needs. 
Serbia’s  law  on  the  protection  of  the  rights  and 
freedoms of national minorities surpasses international 
conventions  in  many  aspects.  The  Constitution  of 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  unambiguously  prohibits  the 
assimilation of national minorities and the undertaking 
of  measures  designed  to  artificially  alter  the  ethnic 
structure  of  populations  in  areas  where  national 
minorities traditionally reside in large numbers. 
The  Republic  of  Serbia 
is  a  multi-ethnic, 
multireligious  and  multicultural  country.  Dozens  of 
ethnic  groups  and  several  religious  communities  live 
there  peacefully,  and  its  tradition  of  living  side  by 
side based on tolerance and respect of others has been 
long, genuine and deep-rooted. Drawing upon our own 
experience,  we  have  wholeheartedly  embraced  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative.  We  have  actively 
promoted 
in 
all  domains  and  at  all  levels,  as  that  is  the  best  way 
to  overcome  divisions  caused  by  cultural,  linguistic, 
religious or any other diversity. 
interfaith  dialogue 
intercultural  and 
Generally,  in  the  period  under  review,  Serbia  has 
achieved  considerable  progress  in  the  protection  of 
human rights, as noted in the presentation of the second 
universal  periodic  review,  in  Geneva  in  January,  and 
during the visit to Belgrade by Ms. Navanethem Pillay, 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 
We  are  ready  to  share  our  expertise  and  experience 
in  the  human  rights  field  with  our  friends  around 
the  world.  The  Republic  of  Serbia  considers  such 
cooperation a friendly exchange, not interference in the 
internal affairs of other countries or as one-sided and 
irresponsible  preaching  and  tutelage  accompanied  by 
conditions or blackmail.
The  Republic  of  Serbia  is  a  party  to  nearly  all 
international  instruments  and  initiatives  in  the  field 
of disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. It 
fully complies with the obligations it has undertaken. 
Serbia’s commitment to the Arms Trade Treaty, which 
we  recently  signed,  is  based  on  the  belief  that  the 
establishment of legally binding international standards 
in that field is a significant contribution to eliminating 
the illegal arms trade, fighting international terrorism 
and organized crime and promoting peace, security and 
stability  —  in  other  words,  the  alleviation  of  human 
suffering. 
In  accordance  with  its  agreed  commitments,  my 
country  has  counted  and  inventoried  all  weapons  in 
its possession and has made the information available. 
It has also allowed the inspection of its arsenals. Our 
partners know where each piece of Serbian weaponry 
is  located.  Nothing  is  kept  secret.  We  have  done  so 
not only because we were bound to do so, but to show 
and prove that Serbia is truly committed to peace and 
cooperation with its neighbours. 
13-48563
3/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
Contributions  to  peace  can  also  be  made  through 
disarmament.  Never  in  its  history  has  Serbia  fought 
a  war  of  aggression,  and  the  weapons  now  in  its 
possession are only meant for its defence. Furthermore, 
Serbia has never posed a threat to any country. It has 
never possessed weapons of mass destruction and has 
no intention of including weapons of mass destruction 
in its visible, quantifiable and verifiable arsenal.
We  are  aware  that  progress  on  disarmament  and 
arms control hinges not only on us. Success is related 
to  developments  carried  out  on  a  wider  political  and 
strategic stage. 
In  the  little  more  than  one  year  since  I  took 
office,  I  have  visited  almost  all  of  the  countries  with 
borders in common with Serbia. I have spoken with the 
leaders of all of the neighbouring countries, including 
at  international  events.  In  that  manner,  I  wanted  to 
convey the message that Serbia has opted for regional 
cooperation and working together with its neighbours 
to address the problems we share in common.
On behalf of Serbia, I have made symbolic gestures 
to effectively demonstrate that we wish to reconcile with 
the peoples living side by side with us. I am confident 
that  those  gestures  will  significantly  contribute  to 
reconciliation and help to right the wrongs of the past.
We  are  now  looking  forward  to  the  future.  It  is  our 
desire  to  foster  good  relations  with  all  neighbouring 
countries by building a network of roads, railway lines 
and bridges; to try to make our mark on the international 
market; to promote our energy systems; to protect the 
environment; to cooperate in disaster relief; to develop 
cross-border projects; to have trade links and; to expand 
our cultural, scientific, educational, technological and 
sports cooperation. Our common goal is to improve the 
living standards of everyone living in the countries of 
the region.
In  comparison  with  our  neighbours,  we  can 
compete only in terms of seeking to attain more human 
rights protection, whereas in all other respects, we will 
cooperate and help encourage one another to perform 
better.  Serbia’s  message  to  its  European  partners  is 
that the time for conflicts, distrust and disputes is now 
behind us. Our country is looking forward to the future 
and to becoming a member of the European Union. It 
has  been  decided,  and  we  trust  that  Serbia  will  start 
negotiations  with  the  European  Union  no  later  than 
January 2014. I hope that Serbia will be able to inform 
the next General Assembly session about the outcome 
of  those  talks,  which  we  believe  will  not  last  long  or 
continue indefinitely, as well as about Serbia’s ongoing 
progress  towards  becoming  a  fully  fledged  member 
of  the  European  Union.  At  the  same  time,  Serbia  has 
revived old alliances and forged new ones throughout 
the world, creating strategic partnerships with countries 
in the East, West, North and South.
Serbia has been active in all regional initiatives and 
organizations, and has recently chaired some of them, 
making a remarkable impression on other members. As 
a result, the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe  (OSCE)  has  entrusted  Serbia  with  its 
chairmanship  for  2015.  The  OSCE  chairmanship,  to 
be held by Switzerland in 2014 and then by Serbia in 
2015,  serves  as  a  good  example  of  how  to  cooperate 
within  international  organizations.  It  will  give  Serbia 
an opportunity to make a constructive contribution to 
the  enhancement  of  the  OSCE,  especially  since  2015 
will mark the fortieth anniversary of the Helsinki Final 
Act, one of the most important OSCE instruments. We 
are confident that our activities on regional initiatives 
and  our  forthcoming  chairmanship  of  the  OSCE  will 
make  Serbia  an  ideal  candidate  for  taking  on  greater 
responsibility  within 
the  United  Nations  system, 
consequently making it possible for it to be entrusted 
with  even  more  responsibilities  and  duties,  when  the 
time comes.
The unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo, 
in 2008, has been creating problems and undermining 
a system established by the United Nations at its start. 
The  United  Nations  has  never  recognized  an  illegal 
secession attempt by Kosovo’s provisional institutions 
of  self-governance,  but  a  number  of  countries, 
irrespective  of  the  norms  of  international  law,  have 
recognized  Kosovo  as  an  independent  State.  Under 
constant  pressure  and  through  blackmail  on  the  part 
of  large  and  powerful  States,  some  other  countries, 
including Serbia’s traditional allies, have unfortunately 
recognized Kosovo as an independent State. 
Serbia  has  responded  to  such  acts  in  a  measured, 
diplomatic  and  political  manner,  refraining  from 
any  use  of  force,  to  safeguard  its  sovereignty  and  its 
territorial  integrity.  Faced  with  a  situation  where  its 
vital national interests were at stake, a country would 
rarely demonstrate such a degree of level-headedness.
We  are  convinced  that  such  problems,  including 
the status of Kosovo and Metohija, should be resolved 
peacefully.  For  that  reason,  we  take  heed  of  calls  by 
the General Assembly in 2010 to start negotiations with 
representatives of the authorities in Pristina. Following 
4/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
the efforts of Lady Catherine Ashton, European Union 
High  Representative  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security 
Policy, we have made arrangements with the Albanians 
of Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia has thus shown that its 
intention was to protect the Serb community in Kosovo 
and  Metohija  as  far  as  possible,  to  ensure  that  all  its 
inhabitants in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo 
could also lead normal lives on a day-to-day basis. 
Let us underscore that Belgrade and Pristina have 
only  reached  agreement  over  clearly  defined  matters, 
such  as  local  elections  and  the  establishment  of  a 
community of Serbian boroughs in Kosovo and Metohija, 
and that the Republic of Serbia has not recognized the 
independence of Kosovo in any shape or form. The first 
agreement,  which  we  promised  to  respect  fully,  does 
not mean in any way that the Republic of Serbia intends 
to approve Kosovo’s entry into the United Nations and 
other international organizations, where membership is 
the sole prerogative of sovereign States. 
The  United  Nations  has  been  present  in  Kosovo 
and  Metohija  for  more  than  14  years.  We  believe 
in  the  United  Nations,  which  was  entrusted  with 
administering  this  part  of  Serbia  in  1999.  Therefore, 
we ask that the mandate of the United Nations Interim 
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)  remain 
unchanged, that its staff not be downsized and that its 
activities be reinforced. UNMIK plays an indispensable 
role. It should coordinate the work of all international 
forces present in Kosovo and Metohija within a neutral 
framework,  as  stated  in  Security  Council  resolution 
1244  (1999).  That  resolution  defined  the  tasks  of 
the  United  Nations  and  reaffirmed  that  Kosovo  and 
Metohija is a province forming an integral part of the 
Republic of Serbia.
We  also  support  the  work  of  the  European  Union 
Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX). We request 
that the European Union respect its own principles as far 
as the province of Kosovo and Metohija is concerned. 
We expect EULEX, by maintaining a neutral approach, 
to continue assisting in the development of democratic 
institutions within the province and in monitoring the 
human rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians, since 
only their fundamental human rights are under threat.
As far as Serbia is concerned, there is yet another 
pending  task  before  the  United  Nations  weighing  on 
the  conscience  of  its  Member  States,  one  which  must 
not remain unaddressed, so that neither we nor future 
Presidents have to seek justice by repeating that a crime 
remains to be resolved. We wish to recall that special 
rapporteur Dick Marty, a Swiss senator, has shown, and 
the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 
has confirmed, that some Albanian leaders in Kosovo 
and  Metohija  organized  the  kidnapping  and  killing 
of  Serbs  whose  organs  were  then  harvested  and  sold 
illegally.  We  were  not  in  a  position  to  initiate  legal 
proceedings  for  those  crimes,  which  were  committed 
towards  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century, 
crimes that have so far not occurred anywhere else in 
the world. We still believe that it is necessary for the 
United  Nations  to  be  included  in  investigating  those 
crimes,  based  on  a  report  by  the  Council  of  Europe. 
Serbia appeals for the support of friends in its efforts to 
shed light on the truth behind those and other crimes so 
that the perpetrators can be brought to justice. 
In April, I spoke before the Assembly in the thematic 
debate on the role of the international criminal justice 
system  in  reconciliation  and  about  the  work  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  since  1991  (ICTY).  We  said 
then  that  the  ICTY  had  abused  the  mandate  given  to 
it  by  the  Security  Council;  that  it  had  not  helped  the 
reconciliation  process  in  the  territory  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia; that it had compromised the idea behind the 
international criminal justice system; that it had acted 
under political pressure; that it was not independent; that 
it had acted differently in similar circumstances; that it 
had  acquitted  some  war  criminals,  in  some  instances 
even failing to indict them; that it had humiliated Serb 
victims of the secession wars of the former Yugoslavia; 
and that it had attempted to paint a revisionist picture 
of history. We continue to hold the same points of view. 
By  accepting  the  integrity  of  the  Tribunal,  we 
have  not  only  earned  the  right  to  criticize  its  work 
but  also  to  propose  a  solution.  Nevertheless,  while 
its  intention  was  not  just  to  criticize  this  institution, 
Serbia suggested certain measures that might, to some 
extent,  help  redress  the  wrongdoings  of  the  Tribunal. 
We request the United Nations and the ICTY to find a 
legal solution that ensures that Serb convicts are sent 
to serve their prison sentence in Serbia, so that justice 
may  be  done  more  effectively,  primarily  as  a  way  of 
helping  them  reintegrate  into  society.  That  does  not 
mean that we challenge the verdicts reached or that we 
are minimizing the crimes committed by those persons. 
We  simply  want  to  help  those  concerned  return  to 
normal life, once they come out of prison, as part of the 
Serbian community.
13-48563
5/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
Serbia respects every State Member of the United 
Nations  and  offers  each  and  every  one  of  them  its 
friendship and trust. We expect that to be reciprocated 
in  equal  measure.  The  Serbia  of  today  and  tomorrow 
deserves to be trusted. 
on  lessons  learned  from  the  shortfalls  in  setting  and 
implementing  the  MDGs  —  the  African  continent 
intends  to  establish  a  post-2015  development  agenda 
that is capable of meeting its expectations and it calls 
upon the international community to support it.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the 
Republic of Chad
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Chad.
Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Chad, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President 
of the Republic of Chad, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
theme  of 
President Deby Itno (spoke in French): Allow me, 
at the outset, to congratulate the new President of the 
General  Assembly,  Mr.  John  Ashe,  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Vuk Jeremić, and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for  the  work  they  have  carried  out  since  the  previous 
session. 
The 
this  session,  “The  post-2015 
development agenda: setting the stage”, is very much at 
the heart of our concerns. The 2015 deadline we have 
set  for  ourselves  will  soon  be  upon  us.  The  general 
impression  is  that  a  number  of  countries  continue 
to  fall  short  in  terms  of  funding  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  official  development 
assistance and debt relief. It is unfortunate to note that 
all of the commitments made to boost economies and 
development  efforts  have  not  achieved  the  expected 
results, despite major international mobilization.
There is a strong possibility that the 2015 deadline 
will  fall  well  short  of  many  countries’  expectations, 
especially in Africa — since poverty persists, despite 
the  development  and 
implementation  of  national 
poverty eradication strategies. That is why — drawing 
On  top  of  the  development  challenges  come 
other  security  challenges.  New  hotspots  and  wars  are 
emerging all over the continent. Coupled with that, the 
terrorism  phenomenon  has  taken  a  heavy  toll,  as  was 
the case earlier in Mali and now in Kenya. 
Terrorism  is  a  scourge  that  knows  no  borders. 
It  feeds  off  of  the  blood  of  the  poor,  spreading  its 
recruitment tools of ignorance, poverty and fanaticism. 
No  good  can  ever  come  from  violence  carried  out 
against  peaceful  populations  while  using  supposed 
religious  considerations  or  doctrines  as  a  pretext. 
Such  violence  is  totally  contrary  to  the  principles  of 
international law, in terms of human rights and the right 
to freedom of religion and opinion. Our profound belief 
is that the fight against terrorism must continue to the 
last breath, in order to curb proliferation and eradicate 
it definitively.
Chad,  for  its  part,  has  made  its  strategic  choice. 
It  has  decided  to  make  its  modest  contribution  to 
the  establishment  of  peace,  security  and  stability 
wherever  necessary.  That  fundamental  position  is  the 
key  motivation  of  its  candidature  for  non-permanent 
membership  in  the  Security  Council  for  the  period 
2014-2015.  To  that  end,  my  country  expects  friendly, 
active and enthusiastic support from the Assembly, to 
encourage its valiant people to continue to provide their 
utmost  effort  in  supporting  the  cause  of  international 
peace  and  security,  which  are 
to 
establishing  a  world  based  on  stability,  development 
and democracy.
indispensible 
Since  restoring  its  stability,  Chad  has  remained 
mindful  of  all  crisis  situations  in  Africa  and  in  the 
world.  It  intends  to  fully  cooperate  with  the  United 
Nations  on  all  positive  initiatives  aimed  at  peace  and 
security, wherever the need may arise. 
My  country  provided  a  clear  indication  of  its 
unshakeable  resolve  through  efforts  with  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad (MINURCAT)  in the eastern part of Chad, from 
2008 to 2010 protecting Sudanese refugees from Darfur 
and Chadian internally displaced persons and ensuring 
the security of humanitarian personnel and associated 
United Nations personnel. 
6/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
True to its philosophy, Chad sent the largest armed 
contingent to Mali, with more than 2,000 men, and 900 
to the Central African Republic. Some 1,800 Chadian 
soldiers will join the new United Nations force in Mali. 
Chadian peacekeepers are now present in Côte d’Ivoire, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Haiti as part 
of United Nations peacekeeping missions.
We  take  this  solemn  opportunity  to  formally 
commend  the  successful  completion  of  the  transition 
process  in  Mali,  with  the  holding  of  free,  regular 
democratic  elections  unanimously  hailed  by 
the 
entire  international  community.  Our  wish  is  for  that 
fraternal  country  to  restore  peace,  unity  and  stability 
so that its sons and daughters can focus their energies 
and intelligence on progress and the well-being of the 
population.
However,  the  situation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  remains  alarming.  The  insecurity  and  the 
political,  economic  and  financial  difficulties  that 
continue to face the transitional Government represent 
major challenges of concern to everyone. The countries 
of  the  region,  through  the  Economic  Community  of 
Central African States, have made their utmost effort 
to mobilize military, financial and human resources to 
support peace and security in that country. 
I  wish  to  welcome  the  establishment  of  the 
Mission  internationale  de  soutien  à  la  Centrafrique 
sous  conduite  africaine,  of  which  the  Central  Africa 
Multinational  Force  comprises  the  core.  Its  troop 
level  will  increase  from  2,000  to  3,600,  thanks  to 
the  participation  of  Central  African  States  and  other 
friendly countries that have shown an interest in joining 
that noble cause. In spite of all those efforts, we must 
recognize that the needs on the ground clearly highlight 
the need for swift intervention, admittedly in the spirit 
of regional solidarity but also with the vital support of 
the  international  community.  To  that  end,  we  expect 
the  Security  Council  to  adopt  a  firm  resolution  that 
provides for logistical and financial support modalities 
for the mission.
Turning  to  the  Sudan,  as  the  Assembly  knows, 
we  signed  a  peace  accord  on  15  January  2010  and 
established a joint force that has allowed us to stabilize 
our  common  borders.  As  a  result,  my  country  will 
continue  to  actively  strive  for  peace  in  the  Sudan,  as 
a  member  of  the  follow-up  committee  for  the  Darfur 
Peace Agreement.
Nevertheless, I think it would be timely to draw the 
attention of the Assembly to the humanitarian situation 
in Darfur as a result of the new hotbeds of tension that 
are emerging and which lead to a constant flow of other 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  towards 
eastern Chad. Currently, there are more than 400,000 
refugees  and  200,000  internally  displaced  persons, 
compared  to  290,000  and  180,000  in  past  years.  All 
efforts made since the outbreak of that crisis to foster 
the return of refugees and internally displaced persons 
to their regions of origin have been in vain thus far. It is 
our duty to advocate from this rostrum for the energetic 
pursuit of assistance from the international community 
to  all  those  people  as  political  and  ethnic  tensions 
continue to divert them from their path to return.
Chad  condemns  the  rampant  instability  in  the 
eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
We  urge  the  Government  and  the  members  of  the 
rebellion to reach a negotiated solution to their dispute 
to  allow  that  great  African  country  to  focus  on  its 
development.
Our  profound  belief  is  that  the  solution  to  all 
the  crises  I  have  just  listed  cannot  be  military.  A 
lasting, definitive solution to the ills that are hobbling 
the  development  of  Africa 
requires  a  constant 
struggle  against  poverty,  marginalization  and  youth 
unemployment.  It  also  requires  the  establishment  of 
constructive  dialogue  among  the  various  sectors  of 
a  country,  on  the  one  hand,  and  permanent  dialogue 
among different cultures and religions, on the other.
Addressing the situation outside Africa, I must first 
mention the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which persists 
and for which the international community has not yet 
found the appropriate solutions. We urge and encourage 
the  efforts  made  by  the  Organization  and  the  United 
States Government to conclude a peace agreement that 
allows  for  the  peaceful  coexistence  of  two  sovereign 
States.
The  situation  in  Syria  troubles  us  all  since  it  has 
reached  a  particularly  grave  stage.  We  have  no  right 
to  allow  a  whole  people  to  be  cast  adrift.  The  use  of 
chemical weapons, which marks a dramatic escalation 
of  the  civil  war  in  that  country,  is  an  affront  to  the 
human conscience and to the ideals present at the birth 
of  the  Organization.  While  welcoming  the  agreement 
between the United States and the Russian Federation 
on  the  destruction  of  Syrian  chemical  weapons,  my 
country wants to see the perpetrators of those crimes 
identified  and  brought  to  an  international  tribunal. 
13-48563
7/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
However, we are greatly saddened to see Syria tear itself 
apart and Syrians killing each other. The international 
community must do its utmost to stop that tragedy.
Allow  me  to  turn  to  Cuba.  The  embargo  against 
Cuba,  which  has  been  in  place  for  decades,  unjustly 
penalizes  that  country.  We  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
embargo  in  order  to  allow  the  country  to  resume  the 
place it deserves in the comity of nations.
At the national level, Chad, which has definitively 
turned the painful page of wars and divisions, is now 
fully  devoted  to  its  development  by  exploiting  its 
mineral and energy resources through daring strategies. 
To do that, it has just adopted a national development 
plan  that  will  soon  be  the  subject  of  a  round  table 
on  its  funding  and  implementation.  At  the  political 
level,  we  give  pride  of  place  to  dialogue.  We  have 
established  a  permanent  political  dialogue  framework 
that brings together the majority and the opposition and 
has  the  power,  inter  alia,  to  create  structures  for  the 
organization of future elections. With the assistance of 
Chad’s  partners,  in  particular  the  United  Nations,  we 
have  taken  all  the  necessary  steps  to  prevent  and  put 
an end to the recruitment and use of children in armed 
conflict.
In conclusion, allow me to reiterate a major concern 
for my country. It is our ardent wish to finally see the 
long-awaited reform in the United Nations, particularly 
the Security Council. That reform, which has become 
an  issue  of  justice  and  equity,  is  a  top  priority  for 
Africa. Keeping Africa, as well as other key actors on 
the  international  scene,  outside  that  universal  forum 
appears  shocking  today  to  hundreds  of  millions  of 
human beings throughout the world. The awakening of 
the peoples of Africa, the role of the continent in the 
world and its indispensable contribution to preventing 
and  settling  conflict  means  that  our  continent  can  no 
longer be sidelined from the prestigious institution that 
is the Security Council.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Chad for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Chad, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of 
the Republic of Rwanda, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Kagame:  Thirteen  years  ago, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  established 
humanitarian  principles  for  the  twenty-first  century. 
Together, Member States and international organizations 
stood for the idea that the world’s poorest nations and 
poorest people should not have to live without dignity 
and hope.
The  world  is  a  different  place  now.  We  have 
witnessed  the  struggles  of  a  global  economy  reeling 
from  a  financial  crisis  and,  indeed,  a  recession.  But 
we  have  seen  a  billion  people  lifted  out  of  poverty, 
more children in schools, greater care for the sick. And 
we  have  observed  a  generation  born  in  a  new  age  of 
information, ready to embrace ever-expanding frontiers 
of technology.
But  the  transformative  effect  is  not  yet  complete. 
The  list  of  shortcomings  is  as  long  as  that  of  the 
successes,  and  as  we  think  about  the  theme  of  “The 
post-2015  development  agenda:  setting  the  stage”,  we 
must have the courage to go beyond business as usual. 
The  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  the  Post-2015 
Development  Agenda,  A  New  Global  Partnership: 
Eradicate  Poverty  and  Transform  Economies  through 
Sustainable  Development,  has  laid  out  an  ambitious 
vision  for  the  future,  and  I  congratulate  the  eminent 
persons who worked to produce it.
But  together  we  must  now  take  an  honest  look 
at  the  MDGs,  determine  what  worked  and  what  did 
not,  and  commit  to  forging  a  new  global  partnership 
founded  on  mutual  responsibility  and  trust.  That  will 
require  developing  nations  to  take  greater  ownership 
of the post-2015 agenda. One of the failings of aid has 
been  the  lack  of  attention  to  country-specific  context 
in  agreements.  So  now  is  the  time  for  the  developing 
world  to  make  its  voice  heard  in  order  to  shape  the 
debate  and  ensure  that  policies  and  programmes  are 
demand-driven. 
It will also require Governments to empower those 
whose lives we are trying to transform, to give them a 
8/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
that 
trade  barriers  and  one 
stake in the process and a say in their countries’ progress. 
In  Rwanda,  we  have  found  that  empowering  local 
leaders while demanding accountability is an effective 
catalyst  of  development.  But  for  decentralization  to 
work,  the  centre  must  remain  stable.  That  is  why  we 
continue to place such emphasis on good governance. 
It  has  inspired  trust  in  our  institutions  and  been  a 
foundation for our development. We know it is the best 
way to achieve inclusive and sustainable development.
There must also be a far greater focus on the role of 
the private sector and recognition of its power to create 
prosperity.  For  that,  we  need  a  global  environment 
without 
facilitates 
investment  in  infrastructure.  Greater  investment  is 
particularly  needed  in  roads,  railways  and  airports 
in  order  to  connect  domestic  markets  to  regional  and 
global  ones.  Investment  is  also  needed  in  energy. 
Electricity, something taken so much for granted in the 
developed world, is still a luxury for far too many people 
and  businesses.  Access  to  knowledge,  information 
and  technology  will  also  play  an  important  role.  It  is 
levelling  the  economic  playing  field  for  developing 
countries and is beginning to break the cycle of poverty.
Post-2015 presents an opportunity to turn that new 
sense  of  possibility  into  a  reality,  to  give  people  in 
developing  nations  increased  opportunity.  In  Rwanda 
we are on course to meet all the MDG targets, but for us 
they are the floor, not the ceiling. We remain tireless in 
our pursuit of progress, because we know all too well the 
cost of failure. Next April, Rwanda will commemorate 
the twentieth anniversary of the genocide. Over three 
long  months,  flickers  of  life  went  out  all  over  the 
country,  but  today  Rwandans  are  standing  strong, 
having  overcome  adversity.  In  building  a  new  nation, 
we have a purpose that is shaped by a tragic past but 
focused firmly on the future. And as within the larger 
African  and  world  community  we  move  towards  the 
next  chapter  of  global  development,  we  must  create 
strong and meaningful partnerships that have a positive 
impact on the lives of all. Together, we can make sure 
that  the  post-2015  era  is  defined  by  opportunity  and 
optimism, prosperity and progress, dignity and hope.
On  another  issue  of  critical  importance,  Africans 
supported  the  global  consensus  against  impunity  and 
the creation of an international justice system to fight 
it. We did so on the understanding that such a system 
would promote peace and security within and between 
nations,  and  that  it  would  uphold  the  principle  of  the 
equal  sovereignty  of  nations.  In  practice,  however, 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  flouted 
those  principles.  It  has  shown  an  open  bias  against 
Africans.  Instead  of  promoting  justice  and  peace,  it 
has  undermined  reconciliation  efforts  and  helped  to 
humiliate Africans and leaders, as well as serving the 
political interests of the powerful. 
Nowhere  have  the  shortcomings  of  the  ICC  been 
more evident than in the ongoing trial of Kenyan leaders. 
The people of Kenya have shown their eagerness to heal 
the wounds of their past, reconcile and move on. That 
is why they elected the current leaders who are on trial. 
Those efforts to reconcile their communities and move 
forward  should  be  supported,  and  development  of  the 
national  judicial  capacity  to  fight  impunity  should  be 
promoted rather than undermined. 
The  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council 
should  be  examining  this  matter  as  well  as  the  wider 
issues of universal jurisdiction that have already been 
brought  before  them.  That  is  the  least  we  can  do  to 
uphold  the  principles  of  justice  and  the  equality  of 
nations,  support  reconciliation  processes  and  respect 
the dignity of Africans.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Rwanda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Kiribati
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President, Head of Government 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Kiribati.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
13-48563
9/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
President Tong: I bring warm greetings from the 
people of Kiribati, on whose behalf I am privileged to 
once again address this Assembly.
I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  echo 
the  sentiments  conveyed  by  previous  speakers  in 
congratulating Ambassador John W. Ashe on assuming 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
eighth  session.  We  are  indeed  very  proud  to  have 
a  brother  from  the  small  island  developing  States 
presiding over this session. I am confident that under 
his able stewardship of the Assembly will continue its 
work  towards  improving  security  and  quality  of  life 
for all members of our global community, in particular 
the most vulnerable. Let me also take this opportunity 
to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  leadership  of  his 
predecessor, Mr Vuk Jeremić.
I also commend the untiring commitment and work 
of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  been  an 
able  navigator  on  this  journey,  steering  the  United 
Nations through the diverse and complex realities and 
the myriad challenges facing our peoples and nations. 
On behalf of the people of my country and our region, 
I wish to reiterate our deep gratitude for his personal 
commitment  to  the  issue  of  climate  change  and  the 
plight of the most vulnerable. Our people still remember 
with fondness the Secretary-General’s visit to Kiribati 
in 2011, which was particularly significant in that it was 
the first visit to our country and region by the head of 
the United Nations. I am also heartened and humbled 
to  hear  that  his  visit  brought  home  to  him  the  stark 
realities of the challenges facing our people, living as 
we are on the front line of climate change.
As we gather again in New York for this session, 
the problems are perhaps greater today than they were a 
year ago. Security challenges posed by climate change, 
conflicts,  terrorism,  transnational  organized  crime 
and other threats continue to undermine our efforts to 
achieve  sustainable  development,  peace  and  security 
for  our  global  community.  In  the  past  few  weeks,  we 
have  seen  heartbreaking  events  unfold  here  in  the 
United  States,  in  Syria,  in  Pakistan,  in  Kenya  and  in 
other parts of the world, giving ample evidence of the 
growing security threats to our peoples from within our 
own societies. We commiserate and join in prayer with 
the families of all those affected by those barbaric and 
terrorist acts.
The ongoing work of the United Nations, and the 
work awaiting us at this session, reflect these challenges, 
and the President has appropriately selected the theme 
“The post-2015 development agenda: setting the stage” 
for  our  discussions  this  week.  Kiribati  welcomes  the 
theme.  We  believe  that  it  provides  an  opportunity  for 
us  to  reflect  on  what  we  have  done  and  achieved  as 
individuals, as leaders of our countries, and together as 
a global body entrusted with making the world a more 
peaceful, secure and better place for everyone. We must 
continue to ask ourselves if what we are doing is in the 
best interests of all our people, or of just a select few. 
We must examine our efforts as leaders of this global 
family and ask ourselves if we are doing the right thing 
for our children and their children, whose future rests 
in our hands and depends on our decisions.
This  is  the  eighth  time  I  have  had  the  honour  to 
address  this  Assembly  in  my  ten  years  as  President, 
and on each occasion I have sought to convey the same 
message. On each occasion, I have spoken of the real 
and  existential  threat  to  my  nation  posed  by  climate 
change and sea-level rise, and I have called for urgent 
action to ensure the long-term survival of countries like 
mine.  Last  year  (see  A/67/PV.11),  I  said  that  I  would 
continue to speak of the peril confronting my country 
for as long as I have breath in my body. 
Well,  I  am  still  breathing  and  the  peril  remains. 
It is a critical issue for the survival of our people and 
indeed  for  all  of  humankind.  Many  of  us  here  today 
are  parents,  and  even  grandparents.  I  myself  have  10 
grandchildren. Surely the world that we want to leave 
to our grandchildren should be better than the one we 
inherited.  But  we  are  not  on  course  to  achieve  that. 
In  fact,  we  are  disastrously  off  course.  The  scientists 
tell us — as I am sure they will again reaffirm in their 
next assessment report — that calamity awaits, and not 
just for those of us on low-lying islands. What we are 
experiencing now on these low-lying atoll islands is an 
early  warning  of  what  will  happen  further  down  the 
line. No one will be spared. 
We  cannot  continue  to  abuse  our  planet  in  the 
same  old  way.  To  shape  the  future  we  want  for  our 
children  and  grandchildren,  we  need  leadership,  we 
need  commitment,  we  need  action  —  now.  When  we 
all  return  home  to  our  children  and  grandchildren, 
we must be able to look them in the eye and tell them 
with confidence that we have done all that is humanly 
possible  to  combat  the  devastating  consequences  of 
climate change.
We  are  grateful  to  the  General  Assembly  for 
acknowledging  that  climate  change  is  a  matter  that 
10/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
warrants the attention of the Security Council. I applaud 
the  commitment  of  our  Secretary-General  to  that 
specific  security  threat  and  particularly  welcome  his 
recent  announcement  to  convene  a  high-level  climate 
summit at approximately this time next year. It will be 
the most significant such event since the Copenhagen 
Climate Change Conference in 2009.
But  the  Secretary-General  cannot  mobilize  the 
remedy needed on his own. He will need the support of 
all nations to ensure that the action necessary to address 
climate change is taken. We must step up our national 
and collective efforts to mitigate global greenhouse gas 
emissions. We must urge major greenhouse gas emitters 
to do their part. We must also call with urgency on our 
development  partners  to  assist  in  our  efforts  to  deal 
with  the  impacts  of  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise 
now  being  experienced  in  our  countries,  and  in  our 
efforts to prepare our people for an uncertain future.
The  delivery  of  international  adaptation  finance 
and  resources  is  taking  much  too  long.  We  cannot 
continue  to  stand  on  the  sidelines  and  wait  for  others 
to  deliver.  In  Kiribati,  we  are  taking  charge  of  our 
situation and moving forward with our mitigation and 
adaptation  strategies.  We  have  finalized  a  national 
adaptation  framework  and  are  now  working  directly 
with our partners on it. Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan 
and the World Bank are working with us to implement 
our national adaptation priorities.
While we are taking adaptation measures to ensure 
that Kiribati remains habitable for as long as possible, 
prudence  demands  that  we  prepare  for  the  future  of 
our people. We are looking to improve the skills of our 
people  to  a  level  where  they  are  able  to  exercise  the 
option of migrating, to be able to migrate with dignity.
When  it  comes  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, our situation has not changed much since I last 
spoke before this body. We are on track on some of the 
Goals, but we continue to be off track on most. This, I 
believe, should not come as a surprise, as most of the 
limited resources we have continue to be diverted from 
equally  pressing  priorities  to  fighting  the  onslaught 
of  the  rising  seas  and  storm  surges  and  their  impact 
on  our  water  supplies,  homes,  livelihoods  and  public 
infrastructure. This is a costly exercise, one we cannot 
afford but that is necessary. We will continue to rely on 
the support and goodwill of our partners and members 
of our global family in that regard.
As we prepare for the Third International Conference 
on Small Island Developing States, to be held in Samoa 
in 2014, the special needs of the most vulnerable low-
lying small States, like Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, 
Maldives  and  Tuvalu,  must  be  highlighted,  for  how 
can we meaningfully discuss sustainable development 
goals when a disproportionate amount of our time and 
scarce resources are focused on ensuring the survival 
of our people?
For us, the ocean is a double-edged sword. Sea-level 
rise threatens the very survival of our people. But the 
ocean is also an integral part of our lives and provides 
daily subsistence for our people. It can and should be a 
ticket to freedom from dependency on others. We are a 
nation of water. We own substantial fishery resources. 
The annual total catch in our waters is valued at some 
$400 million. Yet as owners, we receive only 8 per cent 
of that sum. Where is the equity, where is the justice 
in this? 
We believe that this must change. Our objective must 
be to maximize the returns from those resources, and 
we have started in that direction with the establishment 
of  our  first  fish-processing  plant  through  a  public-
private  partnership.  We  invite  our  partners  to  join  us 
in that endeavour. I am convinced that, given the right 
support,  we  can  achieve  sustainable  development  by 
utilizing  the  available  resources  of  our  vast  exclusive 
economic zone. Through this approach, we can reduce 
our reliance on external assistance. I believe that if we 
are provided with the support we now need to develop 
our capacity to harvest and process our own resources, 
we will also be better able to build our climate-change 
resilience.
The  ocean  is  the  next  frontier  in  the  pursuit  of 
sustainable  development.  While  we  have  failed  to 
protect  our  land  and  atmosphere  from  our  human 
demands, we must make sure that the ocean does not 
meet with the same fate.
In  June  last  year,  we  met  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  to 
review our progress 20 years on from the 1992 Earth 
Summit. Unfortunately, our track record in delivering 
on our undertakings has not been good. In fact, in many 
respects,  our  environment  is  worse  off  today  than  it 
was 21 years ago.We renewed our commitment in Rio 
to achieving the future we want, but we need to move 
beyond  commitments  and  to  act.  The  future  we  want 
will require this Organization to restructure and realign 
itself to reflect the realities of our time: a time in which 
13-48563
11/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
new  and  emerging  security  threats,  such  as  climate 
change,  climate  variability,  sea-level  rise  and  ocean 
acidification, are challenging the international system 
of governance; a time in which the future survival of 
some nations is seriously in question; a time when all 
those countries with the ability to do so must contribute 
to the prevention of this calamity or be forever judged 
by history.
Business as usual can no longer be considered an 
option. Let us not limit ourselves to working within the 
boundaries  of  our  comfort  zones.  Let  us  be  inclusive 
rather  than  exclusive.  We  must  listen  to  civil  society, 
our  youth  and  women’s  groups  and  allow  those  with 
the ability to make a contribution to join in the global 
dialogue and action to address these major challenges.
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  continued  resolve 
of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly to accelerate action on the reform of 
our Organization, to ensure the highest level of global 
collaboration,  accountability  and  decisive  action,  and 
to inspire a greater sense of urgency on issues of critical 
concern to our global community.
We  also  welcome  the  inclusion  of  Taiwan  in  the 
international processes of the World Health Assembly. 
We hope that a similar inclusive approach will prevail in 
respect of other international institutions and processes, 
so  that  Taiwan,  and  others  currently  excluded,  can 
participate and contribute meaningfully for the good of 
humankind.
Resolution  66/288  calls  for  a  frank  assessment  of 
our global decision-making structure. It requires bold 
but  rational  political  commitment  on  a  global  scale. 
As  leaders  of  our  global  family,  we  must  be  brutally 
honest in accepting the fact that unless we act now to 
shape  the  future  we  want  for  our  children  and  their 
children’s  children,  the  prospects  for  success  will  be 
bleak. As we chart the path towards the future we want, 
we must address the fundamental threats to the security 
and  very  existence  of  the  members  of  this  family  of 
nations. Once again I call on all of us to ask ourselves 
the  question,  “Whose  interests  are  we  pursuing?  Are 
we  here  to  secure  the  future  of  each  other’s  children 
or just our own?” This is the greatest moral challenge 
facing us today.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, President 
of the Republic of Poland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski, 
President of the Republic of Poland, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Komorowski  (spoke  in  Polish;  English 
text provided the delegation): First of all, I would like to 
offer my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. John Ashe for 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-eighth session. 
In  one  month’s  time,  it  will  have  been  70  years 
since  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  the  four  major  Powers 
agreed to set up a universal organization dedicated to 
ensuring international peace and security. In Moscow, 
in 1943, high representatives of the United States, the 
Soviet Union, China and the United Kingdom took that 
decision in the very midst of the most devastating war in 
human history. They knew that maintaining peace and 
the  creed  of  “war  no  more”  required  harmonious  and 
concerted  international  cooperation.  They  knew  that 
it  required  collaboration  among  the  great  Powers  and 
respect for the principles of international law, as well as 
the building of infrastructure for peace. The declaration 
published back then rightly spoke of the need to act for 
justice among nations. That is important, because it is 
from injustice or from the sense of a lack of justice that 
many  conflicts,  both  internal  and  international,  have 
originated and continue to originate.
On the eve of that anniversary, it is worth examining 
to  what  extent  the  international  community  copes 
with threats to peace and with open-ended, prolonged 
disputes. The Organization and its States Members are 
right  to  be  satisfied  with  the  body  of  work  produced 
since  then  to  help  maintain  security  and  peace.  The 
12/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
United  Nations  has  proven  to  be  an  instrument  that, 
since  the  Second  World  War,  has  made  international 
relations  more  civilized  in  very  many  areas,  not  just 
in  relations  among  countries  but  also  within  them. 
Understandably, the world is still far from ideal, but we 
should  not  lose  heart.  A  better  world  is  possible,  and 
we should not lose sight of that. That is the real ideal 
outlined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it 
is a duty that belongs to all of us, the Members of the 
Organization.
The justified satisfaction with the progress made, 
which was ensured with the aid of the United Nations 
and enjoyed by the whole of humankind, cannot hide the 
weaknesses of the Organization and its ineffectiveness 
in situations it was set up to resolve. 
the  Organization  are  authorized 
One such current situation is the civil war in Syria. 
That conflict has led to a large number of victims and 
has  created  a  major  humanitarian  crisis.  It  is  a  threat 
to  regional  security  and  stability.  In  such  situations, 
Members  of 
to 
demand efficient action by the Security Council. That 
is  a  justified  expectation  of  ours  based  on  Article  24 
of  the  Charter.  Regrettably,  we  must  conclude  that  in 
the  Syrian  dispute,  members  of  the  Security  Council 
have  spoken  out  for  individual  sides  in  the  war  and 
supported them in various ways, rather than make the 
parties stop fighting and commit to peace talks. That 
has revealed the lack of capacity and efficiency of the 
decision-making mechanisms of the United Nations.
Thisis  all  the  more  reason  not  to  procrastinate  or 
wait for another anniversary as a pretext to return to our 
efforts to reform the Security Council in a way that would 
also bolster its authority, legitimacy, representativeness 
and effectiveness. We are talking about a more systemic 
solution  that  would  not  limit  the  Security  Council 
but  would  go  beyond  the  Council  by  reinforcing  its 
representativeness.  We  are  thinking  today  about  the 
significance of the original principle of the right to veto 
of  the  Security  Council’s  permanent  members,  in  the 
light not just of current or future challenges but also of 
the changes in the global international order, which are 
unfolding before our very eyes. It would be beneficial 
if  the  discussion  about  those  issues  could  follow  a 
formula similar to the one that proved successful prior 
to the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization, which 
brought about a rather ambitious reform agenda for the 
Organization,  some  of  which  found  its  way  into  the 
World Summit Outcome adopted by Member States in 
2005 (resolution 60/1). Poland was an active participant 
in that work and intends to continue its engagement for 
further necessary reforms.
The Syrian tragedy, including the use of chemical 
weapons, is symbolic of a broader phenomenon — the 
ignoring of international values, norms and obligations 
adopted by the Organization and the entire international 
community. After all, they should apply to everybody to 
the same degree, with no one set outside or above them. 
Too often, the immediate national interests of countries 
have the upper hand. That leads to tragic consequences 
in  terms  of  human  rights  and  humanitarian  issues, 
including the principle of the responsibility to protect, 
for which we had such high hopes when it was adopted 
in 2005. 
Armed conflicts are an extreme manifestation of the 
mass violation of human rights. The tragic development 
of the situation in Syria, which has claimed more than 
100,000  victims  by  now,  could  have  been  prevented, 
especially  if  the  Security  Council  had  adopted  the 
necessary  decisions  early  enough.  Therefore, 
the 
solution  of  the  difficult,  complex  and  interrelated 
problems of the Middle East entails a comprehensive, 
imaginative and impartial approach.
Mr. Sinhaseni (Thailand), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
In a context where everyone is focused on security 
issues  —  including  new,  non-traditional  ones,  and 
where  the  dominant  concerns  are  the  economy.  crisis 
mitigation,  the  fight  for  growth  and  competitiveness, 
competition  for  markets  and  land  that  could  provide 
valuable raw materials for economic development — we 
cannot forget about human rights. Recently, many actors 
in  the  international  arena  have  failed  to  care  about 
them. But is it possible for us to ignore them, when, for 
instance, the violations are too close to genocide? 
Let  me  remind  the  Assembly  that  this  year,  on 
9  December,  we  will  be  celebrating  the  sixty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 
which  was,  by  the  way,  initiated  and  drafted  by  the 
Polish lawyer Raphael Lemkin. The message from his 
research and initiatives, which started in Warsaw in the 
early 1930s, is as follows: we must be alert and sensitive 
to the symptoms of future violations of human rights; it 
is our duty to respond to them and not just show moral 
outrage. 
As  the  effectiveness  of  the  response  depends  on 
international cooperation, the United Nations is to be 
13-48563
13/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
a centre for such international cooperation. The United 
Nations is the best, and often the only, such centre. We 
must  not  allow  the  instruments  for  the  protection  of 
human  rights  developed  by  the  United  Nations  to  be 
eroded. Their effectiveness will depend upon whether 
we remain united, and not just in name. It is necessary 
to establish a mechanism that would, in an objective and 
uncontroversial manner, force harmonious cooperation 
between the permanent members of the Security Council 
in the face of situations that fall under the principle of 
the responsibility to protect, in order to ensure that the 
prevention of such crimes and the effective response to 
them prevail over individual geopolitical interests.
The  practice  of  exploiting  children  in  armed 
conflicts is particularly saddening and causes a lot of 
outcry. The fact that many Governments tolerate such 
practices  and  that  the  Organization,  despite  existing 
conventions  and  protocols,  is  unable  to  do  more  in 
this area is unacceptable. Let me remind the Assembly 
that  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  was 
also  developed  on  Poland’s  initiative.  For  children, 
their  safety,  development  and  rights,  it  is  the  family 
that  matters  most.  Looking  at  the  family  and  its  role 
in  society  makes  us  aware  of  how  much  the  family 
means when it comes to respecting human rights. We 
are particularly sensitive to that in Poland.
What  in  many  countries  is  a  tangible  but  slight 
deficit  in  the  exercise  of  economic  and  social  rights, 
while  in  many  others  it  is  poverty  and  chronic 
underdevelopment. Poverty and underdevelopment are 
not just human rights issues and factors that undermine 
the dignity of the individual and entire social groups. 
They  are  also  the  reason  that  individuals  and  nations 
are unable to ensure survival on their own, or to fulfil 
their creative potential for their own benefit and that of 
humankind. That is why international efforts aimed at 
helping regions and countries that suffer poverty and are 
constantly underdeveloped are so important for them to 
be able to take the path of sustainable growth and stop 
being chronically dependent upon external assistance. 
First  and  foremost,  however,  that  is  necessary  so  that 
fundamental  human  rights  are  respected  and  local 
residents regain their sense of dignity in order for their 
inherent potential to serve the development and enrich 
the diversity of the human civilization.
Those  objectives  will  be  served  by  the  climate 
negotiations  that  Poland  is  going  to  chair  when  the 
nineteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change takes place in November. 
We know in Poland that just one single generation 
can  be  enough  to  make  unbelievable  progress.  When 
communism  fell  in  1989,  Poland  was  a  poor  country, 
economically  ruined  and  badly  indebted.  It  needed 
international  aid,  not  in  the  form  of  non-repayable 
borrowing  but  debt  relief  and  restructuring,  technical 
and  training  assistance,  access  to  markets  of  better 
developed countries and foreign investment. 
Coupled  with 
the  hard-working  nature  and 
entrepreneurial  spirit  of  the  Poles,  that  has  all  borne 
fruit  in  abundance.  Since  then,  our  gross  domestic 
product has increased by approximately 400 per cent, 
while our emissions have dropped by more than 30 per 
cent, as compared with the baseline year. That attests 
to  the  fact  that  it  is  possible  and  realistic  to  achieve 
economic growth while curbing the growth of harmful 
emissions. 
Obviously,  we  are  aware  that  there  is  no  single 
formula for everyone and no single path to sustainable 
growth.  There  are  different  baseline  circumstances, 
environments and cultural and geographical conditions. 
The  Polish  example,  however,  and  that  of  other  post-
Communist  countries,  should  be  considered  in  other 
regions of the globe. 
The  same  is  true  for  the  European  development 
model  of  the  European  Union,  which  strives  to 
combine  democracy  and  human  freedom,  economic 
competitiveness,  social  justice  and  solidarity.  It  is 
not  about  being  Eurocentric.  It  is  an  experience  most 
appreciated  by  those  who  come  to  Europe  from  the 
furthest parts of the world and want to stay there. Do 
not be misled by the economic crisis in the European 
Union, which most countries in the Union are already 
beginning  to  overcome.  The  European  development 
model remains universally attractive. 
Our  experience  also  suggests  that  even  the  most 
generous  foreign  assistance  will  not  replace  efforts 
made  internally  by  a  country.  It  is  frequently  an 
indispensable  precondition,  yet 
in 
itself. Internal efforts and factors — the freedom and 
empowerment  of  individuals,  economic  freedom  and 
the stability of the State — always form the foundation. 
Good  governance  is  another  important  aspect 
of  successfully  pursuing  sustainable  growth,  as  it 
combines  democracy,  self-government,  human  rights, 
insufficient 
is 
14/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
competence,  a  lack  of  corruption  and  the  primacy  of 
the  interest  of  the  country  as  a  whole  over  particular 
interests, whether they are political or economic. The 
entire  notion  of  good  governance  is  spelled  out  in  a 
resolution of the Human Rights Commission initiated 
by Poland in the late 1990s. Only with good governance 
in  place  can  international  aid  bring  about  desirable 
results  in  combating  poverty  and  taking  the  route  of 
sustainable growth.
Poland is an active participant in the international 
community, and not just through its bilateral relations 
and  membership  regional  organizations  such  as  the 
European Union, or supra-regional ones such as NATO 
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe. We are also trying to create a better international 
order by being active in the United Nations. Poland, an 
unflinching believer in the purposes and principles of 
the  United  Nations,  is  convinced  that  it  is  necessary 
to  respect  the  treaties  and  commitments  made  by  the 
Organization — by us — and supports institutions and 
programmes that facilitate their implementation. 
For years, one of the priorities of our policy has been 
the promotion of human rights and democracy. Poland 
currently  holds  the  presidency  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. The European Endowment for Democracy was 
established on Poland’s initiative as well. Our country’s 
share  in  development  aid  is  growing,  particularly 
within  the  European  Union.  Next  November,  Warsaw 
will  host  the  climate  summit,  where  we  will  preside 
over the most important development process, namely, 
that of climate-related negotiations.
Poland  has  always  been  active  in  efforts  aimed 
at  ensuring 
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction,  particularly  chemical  weapons. 
Drawing  on  our  experience  and  rich  relations  with 
other  countries,  we  wish  to  continue  to  contribute  to 
reinforcing  international  peace  and  security.  That  is 
why we are seeking a seat on the Security Council for 
the period 2018-2019. We believe that as a member of 
the  Security  Council,  we  will  be  able  to  help  achieve 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
well as represent the interests of Member States in line 
with the letter and spirit of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Poland for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Head of State of the Kingdom 
of Swaziland.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
King Mswati: It is a great pleasure for me to have 
this opportunity to join my fellow Heads of State and 
Government at the sixty-eighth session of the General 
Assembly. We wish to offer our profound congratulations 
and support to the President of the Assembly. We also 
wish to express the Kingdom’s sincere appreciation to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his  entire  staff 
for  their  efforts  and  the  role  they  continue  to  play  in 
improving  the  working  mechanisms  of  the  United 
Nations and for being such a good host.
The United Nations has brought hope to those who 
are suffering, which is one of the pillars of its Charter. 
The  fundamental  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is  to 
promote  tolerance  among  humankind  so  that  nations 
can  live  together  in  peace  with  one  another.  We  are 
pleased  that  the  United  Nations  has  always  worked 
hard  to  promote  and  maintain  international  security, 
and it has further taken positive action to prevent and 
remove threats to the peace that humankind so desires. 
We  are  also  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  humankind  is 
facing a test of unprecedented proportions in hotspots 
that  continue  to  pose  a  huge  challenge  for  the  United 
Nations to address.
We  have  been  deeply  saddened  by  the  senseless 
killing  of  innocent  people  that  took  place  this  week 
in  Nairobi.  We  condemn  such  acts  of  terrorism  in 
the strongest terms. We send words of comfort to the 
Government  and  the  families  who  lost  loved  ones 
through  that  tragic  and  senseless  violence.  The  world 
needs  to  stand  together  and  wipe  terrorism  from  the 
13-48563
15/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
face of the universe. We call upon those who support 
such activities to cease from doing so forthwith.
them  towards  financing  conflict  situations  instead  of 
the welfare of the people.
We  are  also  extremely  disturbed  by  the  deadly 
conflicts  in  countries  such  as  Syria,  where  innocent 
people  including  women  and  children,  are  dying  on 
both sides, with some displaced now living as refugees 
in  other  countries.  We  encourage  all  of  the  people  of 
Syria to immediately cease fire and use dialogue as a 
means  of  solving  their  differences,  because  using  the 
barrel  of  a  gun  to  settle  a  score  will  not  help  them; 
instead, it will leave the Syrian people divided and not 
seeing  eye  to  eye.  Infrastructure  and  social  services 
will be destroyed, leaving increased problems that will 
have devastating effects for a very long time to come. 
We  trust  they  will  soon  find  a  peaceful  resolution  to 
their crisis. 
The findings of the United Nations mission on the 
use of chemical weapons in Syria should be used as a 
basis to chart a way forward in pursuit of the dismantling 
of these unconventional weapons of mass destruction, 
which pose a serious threat to humankind. As long as 
chemical weapons continue to exist in that country, it 
remains  at  risk  of  similar  attacks,  where  nobody  will 
own  up  to  them.  Therefore,  it  is  only  proper  that  the 
dismantling  process  begin  with  immediate  effect  to 
prevent a similar attack in the future.
It is important that whatever action takes place in 
Syria,  it  must  fall  within  the  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations. The United Nations must act quickly on those 
issues and take a leading role in making sure that those 
episodes  where  life  is  lost  through  the  use  of  such 
weapons are prevented.
It  is  important  for  leaders  and  Governments  to 
maintain contact and be in constant consultation with 
their people at all times to avoid situations where leaders 
do not understand the aspirations of their people. It is 
imperative  to  create  forums  where  people  will  have 
access to Government to express themselves, because 
a lack of such communication and detachment leads to 
either Governments or the people reacting in a violent 
manner towards the other.
The  domino  effect  of  such  situations  can  lead  to 
an international crisis, as the problems of one country 
can easily spiral into problems for others, which may 
need to intervene. Such strife causes countries, as well 
as  the  United  Nations,  to  divert  resources  from  the 
objectives of socioeconomic development and channel 
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  is  committed  to  a 
process of consultation with the people at the People’s 
Parliament  —  Sibaya  —  and  other  dialogue  forums. 
That  practice  is  democratic  and  participatory  in 
that  everybody  is  involved  in  key  decision-making 
processes.
Before  I  came  to  attend  the  General  Assembly, 
the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  held  a  very  successful  and 
peaceful election, which proved to be one of the most 
successful we have had over the years. Some 40 per cent 
of the Swaziland population were eligible to vote, and 
70 per cent of them registered to do so in the elections. 
The  primary  and  secondary  elections  were  also  very 
peaceful, free and fair, without any undue influence.
In the past, there had been only one day of voting, 
but  this  year  we  had  to  extend  voting  for  two  days 
during  the  primary  and  secondary  elections.  Our 
elections embrace our traditions and culture, whereby 
people  from  communities  nominate  people  in  their 
chiefdoms  to  compete  at  constituency  level,  which 
we  call  Tinkhundla.  The  winners  then  go  straight  to 
Parliament as a direct representation.
As  a  result,  the  people  are  happy  to  be  part  of 
the  Government  formulation  process,  because  they 
can claim ownership of the people who constitute the 
Government of the day. It is in that vein that we trust 
that the new parliamentarians will work very well with 
the  people  in  shaping  the  future  of  the  Kingdom  of 
eSwatini, with a view to meeting their aspirations and 
attaining the objectives of the Millennium Development 
Goals.
We  also  note  with  interest  the  increased  number 
of  observers  in  this  year’s  election.  Regional  and 
international observers were highly impressed with our 
elections. We therefore call upon the world to embrace 
our system.
We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  many  countries  do 
not understand how our system of government works. 
We  are  happy  to  define  our  system  as  a  monarchial 
democracy.  Monarchial  democracy  is  defined  as  a 
marriage  between  the  monarchy  and  the  ballot  box. 
The  ballot  box  represents  the  will  of  the  people.  The 
people  provide  advice  and  counsel  to  the  King,  and 
that  ensures  transparency  and  accountability.  It  is  a 
combination of power and empowerment. It means that 
16/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
the monarchy of eSwatini guarantees the continuity of 
stability, and the democracy of eSwatini guarantees the 
shared power of the people.
young  people,  women,  men,  the  business  community, 
people with disabilities, faith-based organizations, civil 
society organizations and different regiments.
Therefore, the monarchy is married to the trust of 
the people, who believe that the King does everything 
in  their  best  interests.  It  is  home-grown;  it  easily 
accords with the norms and values of the Swazis and is 
therefore easily understood by all Swazis.
To  those  who  proclaim  that  democracy  is  the 
answer to all nations and their development, we present 
ourselves  as  testimony  of  a  new  democratic  ideology 
that  works.  It  has  a  place  in  modern-day  democracy, 
and  it  complies  with  all  structures  of  the  United 
Nations family. The Kingdom of eSwatini is committed 
to  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  just  as  much  as  it 
is  dedicated  to  protecting  its  history,  its  legacy  and 
its  dignity,  while  at  the  same  time  embracing  the 
opportunities  and  possibilities  for  cooperation  within 
the community of nations.
It is therefore the Kingdom of eSwatini’s position 
that it believes in democracy as an idea, but not as an 
ideal, because things that are ideal to some may not be 
ideal to others. The Kingdom of eSwatini will, however, 
continue to embrace the opportunities, the technologies 
and the mechanisms that create a modern society.
Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  have  achieved  first-world 
status  by  2022,  or  at  least  visible  signs  that  we  are 
heading  in  that  direction  socially,  economically  and 
otherwise.  In  the  past  five  years,  significant  progress 
has  been  made  in  the  Kingdom  towards  poverty 
eradication,  improving  the  health  of  our  people,  and 
infrastructure  and  agricultural  development.  We  are 
confident that we will see much more progress in the 
next few years.
The  kingdom  of  eSwatini  has  been  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which 
became effective in 2000 and most of which have a target 
date of 2015. Good progress has been made in the areas 
of education, gender, the empowerment of women and 
malaria control. Although the country has implemented 
a  number  of  initiatives  aimed  at  addressing  the  other 
Millennium  Goals,  there  is  still  a  need  to  accelerate 
efforts to address the issues of poverty, HIV and AIDS, 
infant mortality and maternal health.
In order to solicit views on the post-2015 development 
agenda,  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  embarked  on  an 
intensive  consultative  process.  It  involved  a  cross- 
spectrum of stakeholders, including traditional leaders, 
On  the  goal  of  eradicating  poverty,  the  nation 
agreed  that  poverty  was  still  a  challenge  and  that 
greater  efforts  were  needed  to  address  it.  The  poor 
performance of the economy in recent years due to the 
global financial crisis has contributed to the situation, 
and therefore a great deal still needs to be done in that 
regard.
As  to  providing  quality  education  and  lifelong 
learning,  the  country  has  made  significant  progress 
towards  achieving  universal  primary  education. 
However, there is a need to focus, with the support of 
the  private  sector,  on  the  quality  of  education  and  to 
introduce more vocational skills.
The Government has invested significantly in the 
health sector. However, the burden of disease continues 
to exist; hence that goal remains very relevant for the 
people  of  eSwatini.  The  country  is  still  faced  with 
the  problem  of  HIV/AIDS,  and  therefore,  in  the  post-
2015 development agenda, the pressure to address the 
scourge  as  well  as  other,  non-communicable  diseases 
should be maintained.
Ensuring food security and good nutrition remains 
a priority and should feature prominently in the post-
2015  development  agenda.  However,  the  issue  of 
climate  change  continues  to  be  a  drawback  to  many 
of  our  developing  countries.  Our  food  production  has 
been seriously affected by climate-change patterns and 
the related challenges.
The provision of adequate financial resources and 
the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and 
technical assistance to developing countries are critical 
if we are to achieve our global objectives. We therefore 
appeal to our developed partners to honour the pledges 
they have made to the Green Fund and the sustainable 
development  programme  as  a  matter  of  priority.  We 
strongly  believe  that  this  could  add  the  required 
impetus  in  the  context  of  our  objective  of  increasing 
food production.
The goal of achieving universal access to water and 
sanitation is also important for the people of eSwatini, 
since water is a very basic requirement for agricultural 
and industrial production, as well as for domestic use. 
Remarkable  progress  has  been  made  in  the  area  of 
supplying  potable  water  to  households;  coverage  has 
reached 71 per cent nationally. 
13-48563
17/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
The  creation  of  jobs,  sustainable  livelihoods  and 
equitable growth is critical for the development of any 
country  and  is  linked  to  the  goal  of  ending  poverty. 
Emphasis  should  be  put  on  value  addition,  technology 
transfer and the development of entrepreneurial skills, 
particularly for young people. As a country, Swaziland 
is fully behind the post-2015 agenda, because it remains 
a guideline for the international community in working 
together  for 
the  sustainable  development  of  our 
respective countries.
The  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
remains a top priority for the African continent. We are 
calling for a Council that will give equal opportunities 
to  all  regions  of  the  world  to  voice  their  opinions  as 
an  international  family  on  issues  regarding  global 
conflict. We believe our proposal is just and fair so that 
as a region Africa can have a voice in the affairs of the 
Council as equal partners in this global Organization.
The  United  Nations  should  continue  to  play  its 
advocacy  role  to  ensure  humankind  continues  to  live 
peacefully  with  each  other.  All  nations  around  the 
world should be given equal opportunities to share their 
expertise and experiences with the Organization.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  is  happy  to  note  that, 
with  solid 
international  support  and  cross-Strait 
developments,  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  has 
increased 
in  United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  and  mechanisms.  We 
will  continue  to  encourage  positive  interaction  in  the 
international arena between the two sides of the Taiwan 
Strait. 
its  meaningful  participation 
Finally,  I  hope  that  this  session  will  come  up 
with  the  desired  results  and  tangible  targets.  We  also 
look  forward  to  a  post-2015  agenda  that  will  create  a 
conducive landscape for all humankind to live in.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of  State  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Swaziland  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President  
of Georgia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Georgia.
Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili, 
President of Georgia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Saakashvili: It is a great honour to once 
again  represent  my  beloved  nation  at  this  rostrum. 
During the past decade, when I have had the privilege 
to address the Hall, Georgia has moved from a failed 
State  to  a  market  democracy.  We  have  experienced 
both  advances  and  setbacks,  both  breakthroughs 
and  mistakes.  But  the  world  has  been  able  to  witness 
my  nation’s  constant  commitment  to  freedom.  I  ask 
members  today  once  again  to  hear  the  voice  of  a 
nation  that  transcends  political,  social  and  religious 
differences in a common love for freedom — a voice 
that, despite all the problems we have encountered and 
the challenges we still have to overcome, is full of hope. 
Looking at our world today, I think that this voice of 
hope is needed.
The optimism of the early 1990s, when the spread 
of liberal and democratic values seemed natural, when 
the end of history had been proclaimed, and when the 
United  Nations  was  set  to  become  the  heart  and  the 
soul  of  a  world  finally  at  peace,  the  optimism  of  that 
era  —  noticeable  when  I  was  a  student  in  New  York 
and visited the United Nations as an intern — was then 
crushed by a wave of pessimism and cynicism.
The  world  is  not  at  peace.  Humankind  has  not 
reconciled with itself, and the United Nations did not 
become the heart and soul of a united globe. Western 
civilization, once triumphant, is now trying to tackle a 
deep economic, social, and spiritual crisis. In Eastern 
Europe  the  colour  revolutions  are  challenged  by  the 
very forces they defeated a few years ago. In the Middle 
East the glorious images of cheering crowds in Cairo 
and Tunis have been replaced by the horrendous videos 
of the gassed children of Damascus.
There  are  many  good  reasons  to  be  disillusioned. 
But should the untrammelled optimism of the 1990s be 
replaced by an equally untrammelled pessimism, by a 
sense of resignation that stifles hope? Should the fact 
that the expansion of democracy and freedom turns out 
to require profound struggle cause us to renounce our 
beliefs and our principles?
18/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
I have come here today to share the hopes on behalf 
of my nation and to speak out on behalf of my Georgian 
people against such pervasive fatalism. I came here to 
address those who doubt, those who hesitate and those 
who are tempted to give in.
If  the  West  is  an  anachronism,  why  do  millions 
of  Poles,  Czechs,  Estonians,  Romanians  and  others 
cherish  so  much  the  day  they  entered  NATO?  Why 
are  millions  of  Ukrainians,  Georgians,  Moldovans 
and  others  desperately  knocking  on  the  doors  of  the 
European Union?
If  freedom  is  no  longer  fashionable,  how  do  we 
explain that the suicide of a previously unknown citizen 
in a remote Tunisian town has changed the map of the 
world? No, history did not come to an end in 1989 or 
1991, as was proclaimed, and it never will. Freedom is 
still its driving force and its goal. Everywhere, men and 
women who want to live in freedom are confronted by 
the forces of tyranny. The question is: are we going to 
be actors or spectators in that confrontation?
As I speak, the Eastern European countries aspiring 
to  join  the  European  family  of  free  and  democratic 
nations  are  facing  constant  pressures  and  threats. 
Armenia has been cornered and forced to sign a customs 
union that is not in that nation’s interest or in those of 
our  region.  Moldova  is  being  blockaded.  Ukraine  is 
under constant attack. Azerbaijan faces extraordinary 
pressure.  And  Georgia  is  occupied.  Why?  Because 
an old empire is trying to reclaim its bygone borders. 
“Borders”  is  actually  not  the  right  word,  since  that 
empire — be it the Russian Empire, the Soviet Union, 
the Russian Federation, or the Eurasian Union — never 
had borders. It had only margins.
I came today to speak in the name of those margins. 
Unlike  most  nations,  the  Russian  Federation  has  no 
interest in having stable States around it. Neighbouring 
countries  in  constant  turmoil  is  what  the  Kremlin  is 
seeking. It rejects the very idea of strong Governments 
in Georgia, Ukraine or Moldova, even ones that try to 
be friendly to its interests. I was never a great fan of 
what  the  French  call  “la  langue  de  bois”.  But,  as  my 
second  term  nears  its  end,  I  feel  the  urge  more  than 
heretofore to speak my mind. Let us be very concrete.
Do  members  think  that  Vladimir  Putin  wants 
Armenia  to  decisively  triumph  over  Azerbaijan,  for 
instance? No. That would make Armenia too strong and 
potentially  too  independent.  Do  members  think  then 
that  the  contrary  is  true,  that  Moscow  wants  Baku  to 
prevail over Yerevan? Obviously not. The current rise 
of a modernized, dynamic Azerbaijan is a nightmare for 
Russian leaders. No, they do not want anyone to prevail. 
The conflict itself is their objective, since it keeps both 
nations dependent and blocks their integration into the 
European common space.
Do  members  think  that  the  electoral  defeat  of 
the  forces  that  led  the  Orange  Revolution  in  Ukraine 
has  led  the  Kremlin  to  take  a  softer  approach  to  that 
country?  On  the  contrary.  I  spoke  yesterday  to  my 
colleague  Viktor  Yanukovych.  His  Government  is 
under constant attack and pressure from Russia. That 
is  what  is  happening  on  a  daily  basis,  again  ahead  of 
the European summit in Vilnius. Russian officials now 
speak  openly  about  dismembering  that  nation.  I  just 
heard the speech two days ago.
Do members think that the Kremlin would agree to 
discuss the de-occupation of our regions of Abkhazia 
and  South  Ossetia,  now  that  the  Government  has 
changed  in  Tbilisi?  Far  from  it.  The  annexation  of 
Georgian lands by Russian troops continues. Yesterday, 
the  occupants  again  expelled  Georgian  citizens  from 
their  houses  and  are  destroying  their  villages,  homes 
and  the  houses  of  their  parents  and  grandparents.  In 
daylight,  they  are  taking  over  their  cemeteries  and 
water systems with total impunity. 
Despite  the  friendly  statements  made  by  the 
new  Georgian  Government  in  recent  weeks  and 
months, the Russian military continues to advance its 
position, dividing communities with new barbed wire, 
threatening  our  economy,  moving  towards  the  vital 
Baku-Supsa  pipeline,  approaching  closer  and  closer 
to the main highway of Georgia, and thus putting into 
question the very sustainability of our country.
We are one of very few nations in history — of which 
I am very proud — that has, unfortunately, sustained a 
full-blown  attack  by  Russia.  We  are  the  only  one,  in 
many  centuries,  whose  statehood  and  independence 
have survived, despite a full-blown attack by the more 
than  100,000-strong  Russian  army,  despite  being 
bombed by 200 planes and attacked by the full Russian 
Black Sea fleet and tens of thousands of mercenaries. 
Our statehood and independence have survived despite 
all of those things. But let us not now risk losing any 
of  that  in  a  time  of  peace.  We  have  survived  because 
were united; we survived because the world was with 
us. I hope that the world will remain with us when that 
pressure is on us.
13-48563
19/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
I  have  come  here,  in  the  name  of  the  Georgian 
people,  to  ask  the  international  community  to  react 
strongly to the aggression and to help us to put an end 
to the Russian annexation of our lands. The hostility of 
Vladimir Putin and his team towards the Government 
that I have had the privilege to lead for almost a decade 
has  not  been  based  on  personal  hatred  or  cultural 
misunderstanding.  Any  such  interpretation  was  just  a 
smokescreen.
Union.  It  makes  me  sick  when  KGB  officer  Vladimir 
Putin  lectures  the  world  about  freedom,  values  and 
democracy.  That  is  the  least  of  the  things  he  can  do 
for  the  world,  as  the  dictatorial  leader  of  one  of  the 
last  empires  left.  But  that  new  project  is  much  more 
dangerous  than  his  lectures.  The  Eurasian  Union  has 
been shaped as an alternative to the European Union, 
and unveiled by Vladimir Putin as the main project of 
his new presidency — a new Russian empire.
My  predecessor,  President  Shevardnadze,  came 
from  the  highest-level  Soviet  nomenklatura.  He  was 
returned to power in Georgia with direct Russian help 
in  the  1990s,  through  a  military  coup.  He  was  well 
known  for  his  Soviet  diplomatic  skills  —  unlike  me. 
And  yet,  Russia  constantly  undermined  his  authority 
and even tried to assassinate him several times.
It is not about Gamsakhurdia — the first President 
of Georgia — Shevardnadze, Saakashvili, or the present 
Prime  Minister  Ivanishvili.  Those  names  actually  do 
not matter when the stakes are so high. This is about the 
possibility — or lack — of true statehood in Georgia and 
beyond. Why? Because the current Russian authorities 
know perfectly well that as soon as strong institutions 
are built in Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova or in any other 
place — as soon as functioning States emerge — such 
institutions, such States will reflect and enforce the will 
of their people, which is to become fully independent 
and move towards Europe.
The  Georgian  experience  of  successful  reforms 
and  the  creation  of  a  functioning  State  was  therefore 
considered to be a virus — one that could and would 
contaminate the whole post-Soviet region. We became 
the least corrupt country in Europe, the world’s number-
one  reformer —  according  to  the  World  Bank —  one 
of  the  top  places  for  business  and  the  least  criminal 
country in Europe, after having been one of the most 
criminal. That was the virus that should be eliminated 
by every means possible.
That  is  why  the  Georgian  nation  has  suffered  an 
embargo, a war, an invasion and an occupation — all 
since  2006.  But  it  is  also  why  the  resistance  of  the 
Georgian  people  and  the  resilience  of  the  Georgian 
democracy are of the utmost importance for the whole 
region.
The  efforts  to  roll  back  the  advances  of  the 
European Union and of NATO in our region — progress 
based on the will of our people — are becoming ever 
more intense. Those efforts have a name: the Eurasian 
Because  European  and  Euro-Atlantic  integration 
take  a  lot  of  time  and  require  tremendous  effort; 
because  there  are  moments  when  one  might  think 
one is pursuing a mirage; and because the threats are 
becoming  so  strong,  the  pressure  so  direct,  while  the 
promises  seem  so  far  away  —  some  people  in  our 
region might fall victim to fatigue and ask themselves, 
“Why  not?”.  Today,  I  want  precisely  to  explore  that 
“why not?”.
Much more than with a choice of foreign policy or 
of  international  alliances,  our  nations  are  confronted 
with  a  choice  of  society,  a  choice  of  life.  Our  people 
have to decide whether they accept to live in a world 
of  fear  and  crime:  a  world  in  which  differences  are 
perceived as threats and minorities as punching bags; 
a  world  in  which  opponents  are  faced  with  selective 
justice  or  beatings;  a  world  that  we  in  our  region  all 
know very well, as do those in some other regions of the 
world, since this is the world from which we originate.
The  Eurasian  Union  is  both  our  recent  past  and 
the  future  shaped  for  us  by  some  ex-KGB  officers  in 
Moscow.  On  the  opposite  side,  our  revived  traditions 
and our centuries-old aspirations have led us towards 
another world called Europe.
European  societies  are  far  from  perfect  —  we 
all  know  that.  There  too,  one  can  have  fears,  doubts, 
angers,  hatreds  and  social  inequality.  But  there,  at 
the  same  time,  meritocracy  prevails  over  nepotism, 
tolerance  is  a  fundamental  of  public  life  and  current 
opponents are the future ministers, and not prisoners to 
be or enemies to beat.
The  choice,  when  it  is  expressed  in  that  way,  is 
so  obvious  for  the  people  of  our  region  that  some 
Kremlin  strategists  —  they  call  themselves  “polito-
technologists”  —  have  decided 
the 
truth  and  have  shaped  lies  that  they  are  spreading 
throughout  Ukraine,  Georgia,  Moldova  and  many 
other  places.  Their  mouthpieces  in  our  respective 
countries  —  that  conscious  or  unconscious  so-called 
to  cancel 
20/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
fifth column — identify the European Union with the 
destruction  of  family  values,  the  erosion  of  national 
traditions  and  the  promotion  of  gays  and  lesbians, 
undermining our traditional religions.
Strangely,  in  recent  years,  and  even  more  so  in 
recent  months,  we  hear  in  Tbilisi,  Kiev  and  Chisinau 
the  same  ugly  music  that  was  first  orchestrated  in 
Moscow.  We  hear  that  our  traditions  are  collapsing 
under the influence of the West, that Christian holidays 
will be replaced by gay pride events and churches by a 
multicultural  Disneyland.  We  hear  that  our  Orthodox 
identity is under threat. And after all of that, we hear 
that  we  share  with  our  former  masters  a  common 
respect for decency and traditions.
Are we so naive as to believe the lies of Putin and 
the  others,  as  other  generations  have  done,  allowing 
our  sovereignty  to  be  kidnapped?  Are  we  so  unfair 
to our ancestors to think that their memory would be 
honoured by attacks on mosques or by pogroms? Are 
we so unaware of our own history that we allow it to 
repeat itself endlessly?
When  we  hear  the  fake  music  of  the  orthodox 
brotherhood  sung  by  Russian  imperialists,  can  we 
not  hear  the  true  voice  of  Patriarch  Kirion,  who  was 
assassinated,  or  the  eternal  voice  of  the  Patriarch 
Ambrosi Khelaya, who was tortured for days and weeks 
only  because  he  appealed  to  the  Geneva  Conference 
against the invasion of his country? He told his Russian 
interrogators,  “You  can  have  my  body,  my  flesh,  but 
you will never have my soul.” Are we so deaf as not to 
hear the voices of the bishops and priests tortured and 
killed by Russian imperialists and Russian communists? 
Are  we  so  uneducated  that  we  do  not  recall  who  has 
repainted our churches and erased our sacred frescos? 
Are we so blind today not to see the destruction of our 
churches by the same people who erased our churches 
in the nineteenth century — Russians who are now in 
the occupied territory?
We need to know our history. Our history teaches us 
that tolerance is the basis for sovereignty in our region. 
It  is  not  only  a  moral  duty;  it  is  an  issue  of  national 
security.  We  need  to  know  our  history  to  understand 
that the same old imperialistic principle — divide and 
rule — is being applied today as it was two centuries 
ago.
Looking at our region today, those who have some 
knowledge  of  Caucasian  history  might  remember  the 
Armenian-Azerbaijani  bloodshed  of  1905,  directly 
created by the tsarist Administration; compare it to the 
beginning of the conflict in Karabakh in the late 1980s. 
The Russian army was present there, in large numbers. 
In front of its eyes, the war started and they pretended 
to help both sides, but in fact stirred up the conflict.
They  might  recall  —  as  I  do  too  well  —  the 
beginning of the war in the Georgia region of Abkhazia 
in the early 1990s, when Georgian paramilitary groups 
were  getting  their  weapons  from  the  same  Russian 
troops  who  were  actually  leading,  directing  and 
assisting  the  Abkhaz  militia  and  bombing  Georgian 
territory and bringing in Chechen mercenaries in order 
to  kill  any  form  of  solidarity  between  nations  of  the 
North and the South Caucasus. They did so just as they 
sent  —  for  the  same  reason,  more  than  one  century 
before  —  Georgian  officers  to  the  front  line  of  their 
wars against the Chechens, Ingush and Dagestanis.
We  could  also  look  at  other  margins  throughout 
the times. We could look at Poland or Ukraine, and we 
would  see  the  same  pictures.  Everywhere  it  reached, 
the Empire inflamed the relations between subjugated 
peoples  and  separated  them  by  a  wall  of  fanatic 
antagonism. Unfortunately, it used to work. But what is 
even more unfortunate is that it is still working today.
The European Union, the greatest political success 
of  recent  decades,  has  been  built  on  three  pillars, 
which could be characterized as three rejections — the 
rejection of the extreme nationalists who had led Europe 
to  the  collective  suicide  of  two  world  wars  and  the 
horrors of nazism; the rejection of communism, which 
was threatening to be spread throughout the continent 
and the world; and, finally, the rejection of colonialism 
and imperialism. It took time — and many participants 
today,  as  victims  of  French  imperialism  or  British 
imperialism,  remember  it  well  and  painfully  —  for 
the  French  and  British  Empires  to  accept  that  third 
rejection. But giving up their colonies was the price they 
had to pay for the modernization of their economies and 
the development of their democracies. It was also the 
price to pay for European unification to become fully 
realized. 
The Eurasian Union is based on the exact opposite 
premise.  It  is  fuelled  by  intolerance,  it  is  lead  by  old 
structures of the KGB, and it is designed to revive an old 
empire. That is what the Eurasian Union is all about. Of 
course, joining the Eurasian Union is very easy. There 
are no social, economic or political criteria to be met; 
becoming  a  colony,  in  fact,  requires  no  effort  at  all. 
13-48563
21/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
Passivity, mediocrity, the absence of national pride and 
a willingness to be enslaved are the only requirements.
On  the  other  hand,  to  form  a  real  union  there  is 
no alternative but to make a herculean effort and meet 
exact  criteria,  because  principles  are  precisely  what 
create a union. To those who doubt, therefore, I say that 
it  is  precisely  because  the  European  Union  demands 
effort and imposes criteria for joining  — because the 
European Union does not seek to absorb us while the 
Eurasian Union dreams of absorption — that the choice 
should be obvious.
But  there  is  an  even  better  reason  for  saying  that 
the  choice  is  obvious.  The  choice  is  obvious  because 
the  Russian  project  is  doomed  to  fail.  No  empire  is 
sustainable  today;  we  are  living  in  the  twenty-first 
century.  It  is  certainly  not  the  Russian  century,  and 
the Russian Empire is the last, anachronistic empire in 
the  world.  If  we  look  back  at  history,  France  and  the 
United  Kingdom  lost  their  colonies  not  only  because 
the  colonies  fought  for  their  independence,  but  also 
because people in Paris and London ultimately did not 
believe in their empire anymore.
Exactly  the  same  thing  is  happening  in  Russia 
nowadays. The imperial dream is being rejected first, 
as  we  have  seen,  at  its  margins.  But,  most  crucially, 
perhaps, the idea of the Empire is rejected at its very 
centre. Such a rejection does not manifest itself in public 
protests  alone  or  in  the  rising  polls  of  the  opposition 
in  the  main  cities  of  Russia.  It  expresses  itself  in  the 
universal  cynicism  of  Russian  elites  towards  Putin’s 
Eurasian vision. The very people who are supposed to 
serve it do not believe in the viability of the project.
Rejected  at  its  margins,  rejected  at  its  centre,  the 
imperialistic path will come to a dead end, the Eurasian 
Union  will  fail,  and  Russia  will  in  the  end  become  a 
nation State with borders, instead of margins — a real 
country with real borders. Then it will start to seek stable 
relations with stable neighbours. Then cooperation will 
replace confrontation.
It will happen, and much sooner than people think, 
to  the  benefit  of  the  margins,  but  most  of  all  to  the 
benefit of the Russian people themselves.
It  will  happen  because  the  imperial  project  has 
become absurd for a generation of Russian citizens who 
are  among  the  world’s  most  enthusiastic  users  of  the 
Internet.
It  will  happen  because  ethnic  discrimination  in 
Russia  is  being  used  in  its  territories,  but  it  will  not 
make Russia a stronger and more united State. 
It  will  happen  because  the  endless  resources 
provided by the revenues of oil and gas are challenged 
by the perspectives offered by the exploitation of shale 
gas  and  shale  oil.  The  shale  gas  revolution  is  really 
undermining the last authoritarian empire in the world.
It will happen because gas alone does not replace 
economic modernization.
It  will  happen  because  of  corruption  and  the 
absence of justice.
It  will  happen  because  entire  regions  have  been 
alienated by discrimination and violence — because the 
people  of  Chechnya,  Ingushetia,  Dagestan,  Tatarstan, 
Bashkortostan  and  many  other  places  have  been  so 
persecuted  that  they  do  not  feel  part  of  any  common 
project with the central authorities in Moscow.
It will happen because the frustrations, angers and 
hatreds are too strong to bear and the unifying ideal is 
too absent.
It  will  happen,  not  in  the  coming  decades  but  in 
the coming years. A few years from now, the Assembly 
will recall my words. Vladimir Putin will have left the 
Kremlin  and  vanished  from  Russian  politics,  even  if 
he  says  that  he  will  be  there  for  another  20  years  or 
more.  Russian  citizens  will  remember  him  as  a  ghost 
from the old times — from the times of corruption and 
oppression. 
Nobody knows whether the process will be calm or 
violent,  whether  his  successor  will  be  nationalistic  or 
liberal, or both together, but what matters is something 
else  —  Russia  will  no  longer  be  an  empire.  It  will 
become,  finally,  a  normal  nation  State.  That  is  the 
horizon we should all prepare for together.
their  strengths 
instead  of  cultivating 
Meanwhile,  as  our  region  remains  an  area  of 
confrontation,  the  formerly  captive  nations  should 
unite 
their 
divisions. Some leaders and some countries in the past 
understood that the freedom of one was dependent on 
the  freedom  of  all  the  other  subjugated  nations,  like 
Poland, which for many centuries dreamed of uniting 
all  persecuted  people,  or  like  the  Poland  of  Marshal 
Pilsudski,  which  invited  all  the  oppressed  people 
or  their  officers  to  unite  under  the  flag  of  Polish 
independence and Polish military forces. But never did 
22/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
our  ancestors  benefitefrom  a  force  that  was  vast  and 
powerful enough, that understood its strategic interest 
was to preserve the sovereignty of each of our nations. 
Today that force exists; it is, with all its deficiencies, 
the European Union.
to 
As  we  come  closer 
the  Vilnius  Eastern 
Partnership  Summit,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  a  call 
that I have made several times in the recent years. By 
launching the Eastern Partnership as a response to the 
2008  invasion  of  Georgia,  the  European  Union  has 
offered  to  our  nations  a  platform  for  us  to  cooperate 
under its benevolent umbrella. We should invest much 
more in it. We should develop common projects, first 
and foremost focusing on the necessary reforms that we 
should carry out together, because reforms mean for all 
of us statehood and independence.
Russian Empress Catherine II knew it well. When 
Poland started to successfully implement an ambitious 
programme  of  reforms  based  on  precepts  from  the 
French  and  British  Enlightenments  despite  Russian 
attempts  to  counter  those  reforms,  she  wrote  a  long 
and secret letter to the German Emperor, Frederick the 
Great of Prussia. The letter was and remains one of the 
most impressive expressions of the nature and strategy 
of  the  imperialistic  project.  It  states  that  the  ongoing 
reforms  were  dangerous  for  both  Russia  and  Prussia 
because  they  would  turn  Poland  into  a  true  State, 
that the reforms needed to be stopped and that Poland 
should  be  attacked  and  dismembered  before  reforms 
were  fully  implemented  so  that  it  never  needed  to  be 
occupied again. 
The letter will not sound unfamiliar to those who 
know how much Vladimir Putin loathed the Georgian 
experience  during  the  past  decade.  Many  Russians 
were  asking,  if  the  once-corrupt  Georgia,  a  criminal 
country,  a  mafia-ridden  country,  considered  to  be  a 
failed  country,  could  succeed,  why  is  it  that  Russia 
cannot  succeed?  It  was  an  ideologically  dangerous 
project. For the first time, an efficient nation State was 
being built in the Caucasus, and the reforms had to be 
crushed before they could bear all their fruits. 
Unity  should  be  our  rule  in  Eastern  Europe, 
including in the divided Caucasus. I have spoken about 
the  beginnings  of  the  war  in  Abkhazia.  I  could  have 
recalled an older scene that symbolically characterizes 
the  history  of  the  Caucasus.  It  was  at  the  end  of  the 
rebellion led by Shamil, the great imam of the Northern 
Caucasus,  against  the  Russian  Empire,  after  Shamil 
had surrendered and after the last Chechen leader still 
fighting, Baysongour, had been wounded and captured. 
As  Baysongour  was  going  to  be  hanged,  the  Russian 
officers  brought  together  a  crowd  of  Dagestani  men 
to witness the execution. They ordered one of them to 
remove  the  chair  on  which  Baysongour  was  standing 
in order to execute him. The Russians knew what they 
were  doing  —  they  hoped  to  fuel  the  local  vendettas 
and  oppose  the  people,  which  is  an  old  tradition  in 
the  Caucasus.  Seeing  that,  the  valiant  commander 
Baysongour  moved  the  chair  himself,  committing  a 
suicide forbidden under all religions, including Islam, 
and preserving the relations between neighbours.
Despite  that  one  failure,  how  many  times  has  the 
strategy  of  dividing  neighbours  encountered  success 
among  the  nations  of  the  Caucasus?  It  needs  to  come 
to an end. That is why I have launched several projects 
during  my  presidency  to  reinforce  the  people-to-
people  contacts  between  North  and  South  Caucasus, 
projects focusing mostly on education and on university 
exchange.  That  is  why  the  Georgian  Parliament  has 
recognized the genocide of the Cherkezian people — one 
of the least known and tragic pages of the history of the 
world, when an entire nation was wiped because their 
land was needed by the Russian Empire. 
We  need  to  build  on  those  efforts.  We  need  to 
prepare  for  the  time  when  the  Empire  collapses,  so 
that its legacy of hatred is swiftly overcome. And we, 
as  citizens  of  Georgia,  need  to  prepare  for  the  time 
when Russian troops will leave our occupied regions, 
when  Moscow  will  withdraw  from  Tskhinvali  and 
Sukhumi,  Abkhazia.  We  need  to  prepare  ourselves  to 
welcome back our Ossetian and Abkhaz fellow citizens 
as  brothers  and  sisters  and  not  as  enemies.  We  need 
to  prepare  for  the  time  when  hundreds  of  thousands, 
in fact, more than half a million, internally displaced 
Georgians and members of other ethnic groups return 
to  their  deserted  homes,  because  that  time  will  come 
much sooner than we think. 
As  my  second  term  nears  its  end,  I  take  pride  in 
Georgia’s many accomplishments during my tenure. We 
ushered Georgia out of a state of darkness, introduced 
unprecedented transparency into our public service, put 
our  children  back  in  school  and  got  rid  of  the  gangs. 
We have brought our nation closer than ever before to 
its European dream and worked tirelessly to renew the 
spirit of tolerance that guided Georgia in our glorious 
past.
13-48563
23/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
We did many good things, but like any leader — and 
when  I  became  President,  I  was  then  the  youngest 
president in the world — I realize that some things were 
done at a very high cost because of lack of experience. In 
our rush to impose a new reality against the background 
of  internal  and  external  threats,  we  cut  corners  and 
certainly made mistakes. At times we went too far and 
at other times not far enough. I fully acknowledge my 
responsibility in that regard, and I sincerely feel for all 
those who believe that they did not benefit enough from 
our work, or even that they were victims of our radical 
methods.
I  want  to  tell  all  Georgian  citizens  —  those  who 
supported  our  project,  our  policies  and  our  party  and 
those  who  rejected  them  —  how  proud  I  am  of  their 
maturity. We promised them this project, but we did not 
promise them that it would be smooth going. We were 
very ambitious, and that was because our people were 
so mature and so brave. I want to tell them from this 
rostrum how humble I feel in the light of the sacrifices 
and the efforts they made.
We  are  and  should  remain  a  nation  united  in  a 
common  love  for  freedom  and  dignity.  We  are  and 
should  remain  a  nation  united  in  the  deepest  respect 
for  the  sacrifices  made  by  our  soldiers,  a  nation 
sharing the same sorrow when they lose their lives - in 
Afghanistan, for instance - and taking the same pride 
in  their  bravery.  We  are  a  nation  that  is  proud  of  our 
soldiers,  who  stood  up  to  a  force  of  Russian  invaders 
one hundred times the size of our contingent, and gave 
us  and  the  world  time  to  mobilize  and  to  protect  and 
save  our  independence  —  something  that,  with  all 
due  respect,  many  much  bigger  and  more  powerful 
nations could not do in the twentieth century. We are 
and we should remain a nation united in our historical 
identity and our desire to join the European family of 
democratic  nations,  the  family  we  should  never  have 
been separated from in the first place, our family. The 
path of the Georgian people towards freedom, regional 
unity  and  European  integration  is  far  from  over,  and 
I will continue to dedicate every day of my life to its 
success, as a proud citizen of a proud nation.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Georgia for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Emanuel Mori, President and  
Head of Government of the Federated States  
of Micronesia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Head of Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mori:  I  am  pleased  to  join  previous 
speakers in congratulating the President on his election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth  session.  I  thank  our  outgoing  President  for 
his  excellent  leadership.  Allow  me  also  to  extend  my 
respect and gratitude to the Secretary-General for his 
untiring commitment to the mission and ideals of the 
United Nations.
Since 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro 
in 1992, the international community has supported the 
principle that the best form of development is one that 
meets the needs of the present without compromising 
the  ability  of  future  generations  to  meet  their  needs. 
Since that time, however, production and consumption 
patterns  have  become 
increasingly  unsustainable, 
driven  primarily  by  a  desire  to  develop  economies 
at  any  cost.  The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  has 
therefore  proposed  the  following  approach  to  global 
development beyond 2015. 
First,  any  post-2015  development  agenda  must 
move  beyond  addressing  basic  human  needs  and 
focus  on  sustainable  development.  Secondly,  in  order 
to  ensure  that  sustainable  development  is  carried  out 
in  a  dynamic  and  inclusive  manner,  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  must  honour  the  environmental, 
economic  and  social  pillars  that  make  up  sustainable 
development.  Finally, 
cooperation 
and  assistance  are  crucial  to  fostering  sustainable 
development  globally.  The  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  have  posed  significant  challenges.  We 
continue  to  look  to  the  international  community  for 
international 
24/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
assistance to overcome those challenges as we develop 
the sustainable development goals.
let  us  not  forget  one 
As  this  body  considers  a  post-2015  development 
agenda, 
important  point: 
development and the environment are inseparable. No 
country can develop its economy without degrading its 
natural environment to some significant degree. While 
society  strives  for  economic  progress,  the  natural 
environment  that  sustained  our  ancestors  through 
thousands of years has come under attack.
Climate  change  is,  without  question,  the  gravest 
threat  to  my  people’s  welfare,  livelihood  and  general 
security.  It  is  the  survival  issue  of  our  time.  Our 
sustainable  development  is  threatened  by  the  harmful 
effects  of  excessive  greenhouse  gas  emissions  in  the 
atmosphere, the effects of which poison our root crops, 
destroy our reef systems and drive many of our people 
from  their  ancestral  homes.  All  of  us,  developed  and 
developing countries alike, have a stake in finding ways 
that minimize man-made damage to Mother Earth.
Only  the  international  community  can  effectively 
take  up  that  cause.  To  that  end,  the  comprehensive 
climate  change  treaty  planned  for  adoption  in  2015 
must  impose  legally  binding  commitments.  These 
commitments must reflect a level of ambition far higher 
than under the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol.  Pre-2020  mitigation  action  must  also  be 
ambitious enough to close the emissions gap.
I  reiterate  the  hope  that  the  world  will  address 
the  dangerous  growth  of  hydrofluorocarbons  (HFCs) 
by  phasing  down  those  chemicals  under  the  Montreal 
Protocol.  Micronesia  was  the  first  to  submit  an 
innovative  proposal  in  this  regard.  We  welcome  the 
newly  announced  agreement  between  China  and  the 
United States to phase down HFCs. We also welcome 
similar  developments  around  the  globe.  Achieving 
a  phase-down  of  HFCs  under  the  Protocol  will  build 
confidence  and  momentum  for  significant  action  on 
climate change in the future. 
Another  notable  contribution 
the  Majuro 
Declaration for Climate Leaderhip, under which every 
Pacific Island Forum leader pledged to strengthen their 
country’s efforts to fight climate change.
is 
As  we  move  towards  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, let us not lose sight of the enormous importance 
of the world’s oceans. We call for the establishment of 
a sustainable development goal on healthy, productive 
and resilient oceans. In turn, we should expect a greater 
share of the benefits from the world’s oceans. Let me 
stress  the  central  role  that  the  effective  management 
of  all  fisheries  must  play  in  sustainable  management. 
Bycatch  and,  particularly,  discarded  bycatch  threaten 
effective  fisheries  management.  This  is  a  serious 
conservation  problem,  because  valuable 
living 
resources are wasted. Moreover, it threatens our food 
security and nutrition needs.
Similarly,  we  agree  that  it  is  essential  to  include 
the goal of sustainable energy for all in the sustainable 
development  goals  that  are  under  discussion  here 
in  New  York.  The  transition  to  sustainable  energy 
places a huge fiscal burden on our national accounts. I 
commend Tonga for spearheading the Pacific Regional 
Data Repository for Sustainable Energy for All.
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  looks  to  the 
international community for economic cooperation and 
support.  With  limited  resources,  we  have  undertaken 
some bold initiatives.
and 
economic 
First,  we  operate  under  a  nationwide  integrated 
disaster  risk  management  and  climate  change  policy 
that  mainstreams  climate  change  into  our  primary 
governmental 
decision-making 
processes.  This  policy  places  special  emphasis  on 
strengthening the application of traditional knowledge 
of ancient conservation practices, which are threatened 
by sea-level rise, ocean acidification and other effects of 
excess global greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, 
our  legislative  branch  recently  ratified  the  Doha 
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. We will soon submit 
the instrument of ratification.
limited 
Secondly,  we  have  taken  significant  steps  in 
conserving  our 
land  and  fragile  marine 
ecosystems  through  the  Micronesia  Challenge.  We 
have  undertaken  this  Challenge  because  our  nation  is 
made  of  many  small  low-lying  atolls.  Our  people  are 
wise  stewards  of  our  land  and  sea,  working  with  the 
environment  to  provide  sustenance  for  us  all.  As  the 
preamble to our Constitution says, 
“The  seas  bring  us  together,  they  do  not 
separate us, our islands sustain us, our island nation 
enlarges us and makes us stronger... Our ancestors 
who  made  their  homes  on  these  islands  displaced 
no  other  people.  We,  who  remain,  wish  no  other 
home than this.” 
Thirdly,  we  recently  adopted  a  national  policy 
that  aims  to  ensure  a  sustainable  energy  supply  and 
13-48563
25/27
A/68/PV.9 
25/09/2013
an environmentally sound energy policy. Historically, 
Micronesia has imported all of its energy in the form of 
fossil fuels. We have begun to reduce our dependence 
on fossil fuels. There are already a number of renewable 
energy  projects  up  and  running  in  many  parts  of  my 
country,  thanks  to  the  assistance  of  our  generous 
development  partners.  My  country  has  adopted  very 
ambitious targets in this regard.
In  order  to  continue  implementing  our  national 
development policies, we call on the major donor States 
to honour their official development assistance (ODA) 
target  of  seven  tenths  of  a  per  cent  of  gross  national 
income  by  2015.  We  look  forward  to  the  discussion 
in 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  of  Experts 
on  Sustainable  Development  Financing.  Technical 
assistance  as  a  component  of  ODA  is  also  crucial, 
particularly  in  the  form  of  appropriate  technology 
transfers and capacity-building initiatives.
Sustainable development must be supported by all 
of  its  pillars —  not  just  economic  and  environmental 
concerns, but also social considerations. Our people are 
our most valuable assets. Therefore, we are tailoring an 
approach that is inclusive of all our people, with special 
attention to the circumstances of our women, youth, the 
elderly and disabled persons. Their advancement must 
be  mainstreamed  into  our  discussion  on  a  post-2015 
development agenda.
Non-communicable  diseases  such  as  diabetes  and 
heart and kidney diseases continue to be a challenge. 
We  must  address 
the  sustainable 
development goals. This is a global crisis, demanding 
a global solution. If not controlled, it could undermine 
sustainable development and degrade the quality of life 
of our people.
through 
them 
We welcome the High-level Meeting on Disability 
and  Development  (A/68/PV.3)  that  took  place  two 
days  ago.  I  was  impressed  by  the  achievements  of 
the  speakers  and  their  inspirational  leadership  in  this 
forum.  We  support  the  outcome  document  (resolution 
68/3) of the High-level Meeting.
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  places  a  high 
priority on the harnessing of advanced information and 
communication  technologies  for  our  socioeconomic 
development,  especially  in  the  areas  of  distance 
education,  health,  and  natural  disaster  early  warning. 
We thank the World Bank and the Asian Development 
Bank for the assistance that they have offered to improve 
our  telecommunications  and  to  enable  our  country  to 
obtain fibre optics. We also welcome cooperation and 
support  from  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union and our development partners.
Human trafficking continues to be a serious crime, 
affecting all nations and causing untold human misery 
and economic harm. My country is striving to protect 
its population from this scourge. We support the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  to  stop  human  trafficking,  and 
we  hope  to  implement  the  United  Nations  Blue  Heart 
Campaign  against  Human  Trafficking  in  all  forms  in 
Micronesia.  The  ongoing  tragedy  caused  by  human 
trafficking demands that it be prioritized and addressed 
by the entire international community.
The global development agenda will be shaped by 
the  launching  of  the  sustainable  development  goals 
in  2015.  Many  processes  will  influence  the  selection 
and  monitoring  of  those  goals,  including  the  work  of 
the  Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  which 
has  now  been  replaced  by  the  high-level  political 
forum.  I  cannot  over-emphasize  the  importance  of 
the  new  forum,  which  will  take  on  the  monitoring 
of  the  implementation  of  sustainable  development 
commitments.  These  are  outlined  in  the  Barbados 
Program  of  Action,  the  Mauritius  Strategy  and  the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288).
The  second  event  that  will  shape  the  sustainable 
development  agenda  is  the  comprehensive  climate 
change treaty, whose adoption is planned for 2015, and 
for which we support ambitious, binding commitments. 
Thirdly,  preparations  for  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  to  be 
held in September 2014 in Apia, Samoa, are now under 
way.  Micronesia  and  other  small  island  developing 
States 
international  community’s 
goodwill and renewed willingness to help our countries 
address our priorities and challenges.
recognize 
the 
Fourthly,  I  would  also  like  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General for his vision and support of the wide 
range  of  issues  so  critical  to  small  island  developing 
States. His advocacy for next year’s high-level summit 
on  climate  change  and  his  focus  on  climate  change 
themes will generate the political momentum for a post-
2015 development agenda to guide all stakeholders.
We  recognize  the  central  role  that  reliable  data 
plays  in  government  planning  and  the  crucial  need 
for  capacity-building,  which  must  keep  pace  with 
the  changing  dynamics  of  basic  governance  in  the 
26/27 
13-48563
25/09/2013 
A/68/PV.9
landscape.  The 
international 
remoteness  of  our 
islands,  limited  national  capacities,  and  the  complex 
requirements  of 
the  United  Nations  make  our 
development efforts even more difficult and expensive. 
We  therefore  look  to  the  specialized  United  Nations 
agencies for urgent assistance.
Mr. Arias (Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In  closing,  let  me  express  my  sympathy  and 
solidarity  with  those  people  around  the  world  who 
are  facing  immediate  threats  to  their  survival.  I  am 
horrified by the killing of innocents, especially women 
and children, in Syria and elsewhere. We in our peaceful 
islands condemn violence. But what can a small island 
nation in the Pacific do? What can any country, large 
or  small,  do?  The  answer,  we  believe,  can  be  found 
only within our Organization. The world in which we 
live  is  too  interdependent  for  us  to  stand  aside  while 
generations  of  internal  conflict  harden  into  unending 
hatred and bloodshed. We are all stakeholders. We must 
put an end to the senseless killings around the world. 
I  call  upon  this  Organization  to  employ  its  collective 
will to pursue the ideals of our Charter. I know in my 
heart that the goal is achievable. The future we want is 
enduring peace and prosperity for our world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
13-48563
27/27
